Title: Abortion Services (Safe Access Zones) Act (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-06-15
Description: Make provisions in respect of safe access zones for premises providing abortion services.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nia/2023/1

## Abortion Services (Safe Access Zones) Act (Northern Ireland) 2023

      BE IT ENACTED by being passed by the Northern Ireland Assembly and
assented to by His Majesty as follows:

### Premises where abortion treatments are carried out

1

1.1

In this Act, premises are protected premises if they satisfy conditions 1 and
2.

1.2

Condition 1 is that they are premises where provision is made, or proposed to
be made, for treatment for the lawful termination of pregnancy in accordance
with the Abortion (Northern Ireland) (No. 2) Regulations 2020.

1.3

Condition 2 is that the operator of the premises has given notice to the
Department that the operator wishes the premises to be protected premises and
that notice has not been withdrawn by the operator.

### Premises where information, advice or counselling about abortion treatments are provided

2

2.1

In this Act, premises are also protected premises if they satisfy conditions
1, 2 and 3.

2.2

Condition 1 is that the premises are—

2.2.a

an HSC hospital,

2.2.b

a clinic provided by an HSC trust,

2.2.c

used to provide primary medical services in accordance with arrangements under
the Health and Personal Social Services (Northern Ireland) Order 1972, or

2.2.d

any other premises approved for the purposes of this section by the
Department.

2.3

Condition 2 is that information, advice or counselling relating to treatment
for the termination of pregnancy is provided at the premises.

2.4

Condition 3 is that the operator of the premises has given notice to the
Department that the operator wishes the premises to be protected premises and
that notice has not been withdrawn by the operator.

2.5

In this section—

      “ HSC hospital ” means a hospital managed by an HSC trust,           “
HSC trust ” means a Health and Social Care trust established under Article 10
of the Health and Personal Social Services (Northern Ireland) Order 1991.

### Protected persons

3

In this Act, a protected person is a person attending protected premises for
the purposes of—

3.a

accessing the treatment, information, advice or counselling provided there,

3.b

accompanying a person described in paragraph (a), at the invitation of that
person, or

3.c

working in, or providing services to, the protected premises.

### Establishment of safe access zone

4

4.1

A safe access zone is established for protected premises in accordance with
this section.

4.2

Except as provided by subsection (3), the safe access zone for protected
premises consists of—

4.2.a

the protected premises; and

4.2.b

the public area outside the protected premises which lies within 100 metres
from each entrance to, or exit from, those premises.

4.3

If the operator of any protected premises is of the opinion that the public
area mentioned in subsection (2)(b) is not adequate to afford safe access to
the premises for protected persons, the operator may give notice to the
Department that it wishes the public area so mentioned to be extended by a
specified distance not exceeding 150 metres.

4.4

On receipt of a notice under section 1(3) or section 2(4) relating to any
premises, the Department must include an entry relating to those premises in
the list maintained by it under section 7; and a safe access zone is
established in relation to those premises on publication of that entry under
section 7.

4.5

On receipt of a notice under subsection (3) relating to any premises, the
Department must amend any entry in the list published by it under section 7
which relates to the premises; and the extended safe access zone is
established in relation to those premises on publication of the amended entry
under section 7.

4.6

In this section “ public area ” means a place to which the public has access,
without payment, as of right.

### Offences in respect of a safe access zone

5

5.1

In this section, D means a person who is not a protected person.

5.2

It is an offence for D to do an act in a safe access zone with the intent of,
or reckless as to whether it has the effect of—

5.2.a

influencing a protected person, whether directly or indirectly,

5.2.b

preventing or impeding access by a protected person, or

5.2.c

causing harassment, alarm or distress to a protected person,

in connection with the protected person attending protected premises for a
purpose mentioned in section 3.

5.3

It is an offence for D to record a protected person who is in a safe access
zone without the consent of that person, with the intent of, or reckless as to
whether it has the effect of—

5.3.a

influencing a protected person, whether directly or indirectly,

5.3.b

preventing or impeding access by a protected person, or

5.3.c

causing harassment, alarm or distress to a protected person,

in connection with the protected person attending protected premises for a
purpose mentioned in section 3.

5.4

An offence under this section is punishable on summary conviction by a fine
not exceeding level 2 on the standard scale.

### Enforcement of safe access zone by a constable

6

6.1

Where a constable has reasonable grounds to believe that a person has
committed, is committing, or is about to commit an offence under section 5(2),
the constable may—

6.1.a

direct the person to leave the safe access zone,

6.1.b

remove the person from the safe access zone.

6.2

Where a constable has reasonable grounds to believe that a person has
committed, is committing, or is about to commit an offence under section 5(3),
the constable may direct the person to cease recording.

6.3

A constable exercising the power in subsection (1)(b) may use reasonable
force, if necessary, in the exercise of the power.

6.4

A person who fails to comply with a direction under subsection (1)(a) or (2),
or who resists being removed under subsection (1)(b) commits an offence.

6.5

An offence under subsection (4) is punishable on summary conviction by a fine
not exceeding level 4 on the standard scale.

### Publication of list of protected premises and safe access zones

7

The Department must —

7.a

maintain a list of all premises which are for the time being protected
premises for the purposes of this Act, together with, in the case of each
protected premises, an indication of the extent of the safe access zone
established for the premises under section 4;

7.b

publish that list in such manner as appears to the Department to be
appropriate to bring the existence and extent of safe access zones to the
attention of members of the public likely to be affected; and

7.c

ensure (so far as its powers extend) that appropriate steps are taken by an
operator of protected premises for bringing the existence and extent of the
safe access zone for those premises to the attention of members of the public.

### Monitoring of effectiveness of safe access zones

8

The Department must publish an annual report, setting out whether, in the
opinion of the Department, each safe access zone has been effective in
protecting the safety and dignity of protected persons.

### Interpretation

9

9.1

In this Act—

      “ the Department ” means the Department of Health,           “ operator
”, in relation to premises, means the person in charge of providing the
treatments referred to in section 1, or the information, advice or counselling
referred to in section 2, in those premises.           “ record ” means—
To make a recording of sounds; or           To make a recording of moving
images; or           To make a recording of moving images accompanied by a
recording of sounds; or           To take a photograph,         regardless of
the medium on which the recording is made or the method by which the sounds or
images are reproduced or produced.

9.2

In this Act a reference to “premises” is to be read—

9.2.a

as including a reference to the land on which the premises are situated; and

9.2.b

in the case of premises which form part only of a building, as a reference to
the whole building.

9.3

For the purposes of this Act a person is attending protected premises if the
person is accessing or leaving, or attempting to access or leave, those
premises.

### Commencement

10

10.1

Sections 5 and 6 come into operation at the end of the period of 3 months
after the date this Act receives Royal Assent.

10.2

The other provisions of this Act come into operation on the day after this Act
receives Royal Assent.

### Short title

11

This Act may be cited as the Abortion Services (Safe Access Zones) Act
(Northern Ireland) 2023.

