Title: Bail and Release from Custody (Scotland) Act 2023
Date: 2024-07-25
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2023/4

## Bail and Release from Custody (Scotland) Act 2023

### BAIL

#### Decisions on bail: relevant information

1

1.1

The Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 (“ the 1995 Act ”) is amended as
follows.

1.2

In section 22A (consideration of bail on first appearance), after subsection
(1) insert—

1.2.1A

Before determining whether to admit or refuse to admit the person accused or
charged to bail, the sheriff or judge must also give an officer of a local
authority an opportunity to provide (orally or in writing) information
relevant to that determination.

.

1.3

In section 23B (entitlement to bail and the court’s function)—

1.3.a

at the end of subsection (4) insert  “(including submissions in relation to
any information provided by an officer of a local authority under section
22A(1A) or in response to a request under subsection (6))” ,

1.3.b

in subsection (6), after “counsel” insert  “or an officer of a local
authority” ,

1.3.c

after subsection (6) insert—

1.3.c.6A

Where relevant to a question of bail, and without prejudice to the generality
of subsection (6), the court may in particular request the prosecutor to
provide it with information in relation to the risk of harm to the complainer.

,

1.3.d

in subsection (7)—

1.3.d.i

for “that party” in the first place where it occurs substitute  “the
prosecutor, the accused person’s solicitor or counsel, or an officer of a
local authority” ,

1.3.d.ii

after “party” in the second place where it occurs insert  “or officer” .

1.4

The Social Work (Scotland) Act 1968 is amended as follows.

1.5

In section 27 (supervision and care of persons put on probation or released
from prisons etc.), in subsection (1), before paragraph (a) insert—

1.5.za

making available to any court, in accordance with section 22A(1A) or 23B(6) of
the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995, such information as may be
relevant to the court’s determination of whether to grant bail to persons who
are accused of or charged with an offence;

.

#### Determination of good reason for refusing bail

2

2.1

The 1995 Act is amended as follows.

2.2

In section 23B (entitlement to bail and the court’s function)—

2.2.a

for subsection (1) substitute—

2.2.a.1

Bail is to be granted to an accused person unless the court determines that
there is good reason for refusing bail.

2.2.a.1A

The court may determine that there is good reason for refusing bail only if it
considers that—

2.2.a.1A.a

at least one of the grounds specified in section 23C(1) applies, and

2.2.a.1A.b

having regard to the public interest, and having considered the imposition of
bail conditions in accordance with subsection (2), it is necessary to refuse
bail—

2.2.a.1A.b.i

in the interests of public safety, including the protection of the complainer
from a risk of harm, or

2.2.a.1A.b.ii

to prevent a significant risk of prejudice to the interests of justice.

,

2.2.b

subsection (3) is repealed,

2.2.c

after subsection (7) insert—

2.2.c.8

For the purposes of subsections (1A)(b)(i) and (6A)—

      “ complainer ” means the person against whom the offence to which the
proceedings relate is alleged to have been committed,           “ harm ” means
physical or psychological harm,           “ psychological harm ” includes
fear, alarm and distress.

2.2.c.9

For the purposes of subsection (1A)(b)(ii), “ prejudice to the interests of
justice ” means—

2.2.c.9.a

the accused person evading justice as a result of the proceedings being
delayed or discontinued, or

2.2.c.9.b

the course of justice in the proceedings being impeded or prejudiced as a
result of—

2.2.c.9.b.i

the destruction, concealment or withholding of evidence,

2.2.c.9.b.ii

the giving of false or misleading evidence, or

2.2.c.9.b.iii

the quality of evidence, or its sufficiency in law, being diminished.

2.2.c.10

In subsection (9)(b)(iii), the reference to the quality of evidence is to its
quality in terms of completeness, accuracy and probative value.

.

2.3

In section 23C (grounds relevant as to question of bail)—

2.3.a

in subsection (1), at the beginning of paragraph (a) insert  “subject to
subsection (1A),” ,

2.3.b

after subsection (1) insert—

2.3.b.1A

When determining whether there is good reason for refusing bail in summary
proceedings, the court may take account of any such risk as is mentioned in
subsection (1)(a) only where—

2.3.b.1A.a

the person has previously failed to appear at a relevant diet, or

2.3.b.1A.b

the proceedings relate to an offence under section 27(1)(a) or 150(8).

,

2.3.c

after subsection (2) insert—

2.3.c.3

In subsection (1A)(a), “ relevant diet ” means a diet of the court relating to
the offence with which the person is charged—

2.3.c.3.a

of which the person has been given due notice, or

2.3.c.3.b

at which the person is required by this Act to appear.

.

#### Removal of restriction on bail in certain solemn cases

3

Section 23D of the 1995 Act (restriction on bail in certain solemn cases) is
repealed.

#### Decisions on bail: duty to state and record reasons

4

4.1

Section 24 of the 1995 Act (bail and bail conditions) is amended as follows.

4.2

After subsection (2A) insert—

4.2.2AA

Where the court refuses bail in any proceedings in which a person is accused
of an offence, it must—

4.2.2AA.a

state in particular—

4.2.2AA.a.i

the grounds on which it determines, in accordance with section 23B(1A), that
there is good reason for refusing bail,

4.2.2AA.a.ii

if refusing bail solely on the ground specified in section 23C(1)(a)
(substantial risk of absconding or failing to appear), its reasons for
considering under section 23B(1A)(b) that it is necessary to do so, and

4.2.2AA.a.iii

its reasons for considering under section 23B(1A)(b) and (2) that either it
would not be appropriate to impose on the accused bail conditions subject to a
requirement to submit to monitoring in accordance with Part 1 of the
Management of Offenders (Scotland) Act 2019 (electronic monitoring) or that
doing so would not adequately safeguard the interests of public safety or
justice as mentioned in section 23B(1A)(b)(i) or (ii), and

4.2.2AA.b

have the grounds mentioned in paragraph (a)(i) entered in the record of the
proceedings.

.

4.3

In subsection (2B)(a), for the words from “a sexual offence” to “Act)”
substitute  “an offence falling within subsection (2C)” .

4.4

After subsection (2B) insert—

4.4.2C

An offence falls within this subsection if it is—

4.4.2C.a

a sexual offence (having the meaning given by section 210A(10) and (11)),

4.4.2C.b

an offence under section 1(1) of the Domestic Abuse (Scotland) Act 2018,

4.4.2C.c

an offence that is aggravated as described in section 1(1)(a) of the Abusive
Behaviour and Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act 2016,

4.4.2C.d

an offence under section 39 of the Criminal Justice and Licensing (Scotland)
Act 2010 (offence of stalking),

4.4.2C.e

an attempt, conspiracy or incitement to commit an offence mentioned in
paragraph (b), (c) or (d),

4.4.2C.f

aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring the commission of an offence
mentioned in paragraph (b), (c) or (d).

.

4.5

In subsection (8), after “this section” insert  “(other than subsection
(2AA))” .

#### Time spent on electronically monitored bail

5

After section 210 of the 1995 Act (consideration of time spent in custody)
insert—

######## Consideration of time spent on electronically monitored bail

5.210ZA

5.210ZA.1

This section applies where—

5.210ZA.1.a

a court passes a sentence of imprisonment or detention on a person for an
offence, and

5.210ZA.1.b

the person has spent a period of time (“the bail period”) on qualifying bail
awaiting trial or sentence.

5.210ZA.2

When passing the sentence, the court must—

5.210ZA.2.a

have regard to the bail period,

5.210ZA.2.b

specify, in accordance with subsection (3), a period of time (“ the relevant
period ”) which is to be treated as a period of time spent in custody by the
person, and

5.210ZA.2.c

unless the relevant period is nil, direct (for the purpose of executing the
sentence) that the person is to be treated as having served either—

5.210ZA.2.c.i

the sentence in full, where the relevant period is equal to or greater than
the sentence passed, or

5.210ZA.2.c.ii

such part of the sentence as is equal to the relevant period, where the
relevant period is less than the sentence passed.

5.210ZA.3

The relevant period is to be the period equal to one-half of either of the
following (rounded up, as necessary, to the nearest whole day)—

5.210ZA.3.a

the bail period, or

5.210ZA.3.b

the bail period less such period (whether all or part of the bail period) as
the court considers appropriate to disregard.

5.210ZA.4

Where the court specifies the relevant period in accordance with subsection
(3)(b), it must state its reasons for disregarding all or (as the case may be)
part of the bail period.

5.210ZA.5

Nothing in this section affects the application of section 210 to any period
of time which the person may additionally have spent in custody or in hospital
as described in that section.

5.210ZA.6

For the purposes of this section—

5.210ZA.6.a

“ qualifying bail ” means bail subject to a condition—

5.210ZA.6.a.i

which requires the person to remain at one or more specified places for a
total period (whether or not continuous) of not less than 9 hours in any given
day, and

5.210ZA.6.a.ii

in relation to which the person is required to submit to monitoring in
accordance with Part 1 of the Management of Offenders (Scotland) Act 2019
(electronic monitoring etc.),

5.210ZA.6.b

references to the bail period are references to the period beginning on the
day on which the person is granted qualifying bail and ending on the day
before the day on which the person ceases to be on qualifying bail.

5.210ZA.7

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations—

5.210ZA.7.a

modify—

5.210ZA.7.a.i

the meaning of “qualifying bail” or “the bail period” given by subsection (6),

5.210ZA.7.a.ii

the meaning of “the relevant period” given by subsection (3),

5.210ZA.7.b

further modify this section, or modify any other enactment, to make such
further provision for the purposes of this section as the Scottish Ministers
consider appropriate.

5.210ZA.8

Regulations under subsection (7)—

5.210ZA.8.a

may include incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory
or saving provision,

5.210ZA.8.b

are subject to the affirmative procedure.

.

#### Report on bail and remand

6

6.1

The Scottish Ministers must, as soon as reasonably practicable after the end
of the reporting period, prepare and publish a report on bail and remand.

6.2

The report must include the following information for each year of the
reporting period—

6.2.a

the average daily remand population,

6.2.b

the total number of individuals within the remand population,

6.2.c

the number of individuals who entered the remand population by reference to
each of the following characteristics—

6.2.c.i

the offence (or type of offence) in respect of which the individual was
remanded in custody,

6.2.c.ii

the individual’s gender,

6.2.c.iii

the local authority area in which the individual lived immediately before
being remanded in custody,

6.2.d

the number of individuals who left the remand population by reference to the
individual’s gender,

6.2.e

an analysis of the length of time that individuals spent within the remand
population,

6.2.f

in relation to women within the remand population—

6.2.f.i

the offences (or types of offence) in respect of which women were remanded in
custody,

6.2.f.ii

the age profile of women who were remanded in custody,

6.2.f.iii

the number of women who transferred from the remand population to the
population of prisoners serving a sentence of imprisonment or detention,

6.2.g

the number of bail orders made by reference to the offence (or type of
offence) in respect of which the individual was granted bail,

6.2.h

the number of bail orders made in respect of—

6.2.h.i

individuals who were accused in solemn proceedings of a violent offence, a
sexual offence, or a domestic abuse offence and had a previous conviction on
indictment for any such offence, and

6.2.h.ii

individuals who were accused in solemn proceedings of a drug trafficking
offence and had a previous conviction on indictment for such an offence,

6.2.i

the number of convictions for—

6.2.i.i

bail-related offences, and

6.2.i.ii

other offences (“subsequent offences”) committed while on bail by reference to
the subsequent offence (or type of subsequent offence) in respect of which the
individual was convicted.

6.3

The report may—

6.3.a

include information on the operation of the modifications of enactments made
by this Part, including in particular the repeal of section 23D of the 1995
Act,

6.3.b

include any other information, including gender-specific information, that the
Scottish Ministers consider appropriate, and

6.3.c

be in any form that they consider appropriate and, in particular, may be part
of another document.

6.4

In preparing a report that includes the information mentioned in subsection
(3)(a), the Scottish Ministers must consult—

6.4.a

the chief constable of the Police Service of Scotland,

6.4.b

the Lord Advocate,

6.4.c

the Scottish Courts and Tribunals Service,

6.4.d

each local authority,

6.4.e

persons who are providing support services to victims in relation to offences
perpetrated against or in respect of those victims,

6.4.f

such other persons as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

6.5

In this section—

      “ bail-related offence ” means an offence under section 27(1)(a) or (b)
or (7) of the 1995 Act,           “ domestic abuse offence ” means—         an
offence under section 1(1) of the Domestic Abuse (Scotland) Act 2018, or
an offence that is aggravated as described in section 1(1)(a) of the Abusive
Behaviour and Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act 2016,                 “ drug
trafficking offence ” has the meaning given by section 49(5) of the Proceeds
of Crime (Scotland) Act 1995,           “ remand population ” means the
Scottish prison population comprising—         every individual who was
accused of, or charged with, an offence and remanded in custody while awaiting
trial, and           every individual who was convicted of an offence and
remanded in custody while awaiting sentence,                 “ reporting
period ” means the period of 3 years beginning with the day on which section 2
comes into force,           “ sexual offence ” has the meaning given by
section 210A(10) and (11) of the 1995 Act,           “ violent offence ” means
any offence (other than a sexual offence) inferring personal violence.

6.6

Any reference in this section to an offence (other than a bail-related offence
or a sexual offence) includes reference to—

6.6.a

an attempt, conspiracy or incitement to commit the offence,

6.6.b

aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring the commission of the offence.

#### Recording of reasons for granting bail in certain solemn cases

7

7.1

This section applies—

7.1.a

where a person is accused of an offence in solemn proceedings and subsection
(2) or (3) applies to the person,

7.1.b

for the reporting period.

7.2

This subsection applies where the person—

7.2.a

is accused in the proceedings of an offence falling within subsection (4), and

7.2.b

has a previous conviction on indictment for an offence falling within that
subsection.

7.3

This subsection applies where the person—

7.3.a

is accused in the proceedings of a drug trafficking offence, and

7.3.b

has a previous conviction on indictment for such an offence.

7.4

An offence falls within this subsection if it is—

7.4.a

a violent offence,

7.4.b

a sexual offence, or

7.4.c

a domestic abuse offence.

7.5

Where the court grants bail to a person to whom this section applies, the
court must—

7.5.a

state its reasons,

7.5.b

have those reasons entered in the record of proceedings.

7.6

For the purposes of this section—

      “ domestic abuse offence ” means—         an offence under section 1(1)
of the Domestic Abuse (Scotland) Act 2018, or           an offence that is
aggravated as described in section 1(1)(a) of the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual
Harm (Scotland) Act 2016,                 “ drug trafficking offence ” has the
meaning given by section 49(5) of the Proceeds of Crime (Scotland) Act 1995,
“ reporting period ” has the meaning given by section 6(5),           “ sexual
offence ” has the meaning given by section 210A(10) and (11) of the 1995 Act,
“ violent offence ” means any offence (other than a sexual offence) inferring
personal violence.

7.7

Any reference in this section to an offence (other than a sexual offence)
includes reference to—

7.7.a

an attempt, conspiracy or incitement to commit the offence,

7.7.b

aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring the commission of the offence.

### RELEASE FROM CUSTODY

#### Prisoners not to be released on certain days of the week

8

8.1

The Prisoners and Criminal Proceedings (Scotland) Act 1993 (“ the 1993 Act ”)
is amended as follows.

8.2

In section 27 (interpretation of Part 1)—

8.2.a

in subsection (7), for the words from “a Saturday”, in the first place where
they occur, to the end substitute

—

8.2.a.a

an excepted day, or

8.2.a.b

subject to subsection  (7A) , a Thursday,

the release of the prisoner is to be brought forward to the last preceding day
which is a suitable release day.

,

8.2.b

after subsection (7) insert—

8.2.b.7A

Subsection (7)(b) does not apply where the prisoner fell to be released on or
by an excepted day and the release was brought forward to a Thursday by virtue
of subsection (7)(a).

8.2.b.7B

For the purposes of subsections (7) and  (7A) —

8.2.b.7B.a

an “excepted day” is a day which is—

8.2.b.7B.a.i

a Friday,

8.2.b.7B.a.ii

a Saturday,

8.2.b.7B.a.iii

a Sunday,

8.2.b.7B.a.iv

a public holiday,

8.2.b.7B.a.v

the day before a public holiday,

8.2.b.7B.b

a “suitable release day” is a day which is not—

8.2.b.7B.b.i

in a case where subsection (7)(a) applies, an excepted day,

8.2.b.7B.b.ii

in a case where subsection (7)(b) applies, an excepted day or a Thursday.

.

#### Release on licence of long-term prisoners

9

9.1

The 1993 Act is amended as follows.

9.2

In section 1A (application to certain persons serving more than one sentence),
in subsection (1)(c), after “3AA” insert  “or 3AB” .

9.3

In section 1B (prisoners serving consecutive sentences including at least one
terrorism sentence), in subsection (11), after “3AA” insert  “or 3AB” .

9.4

In section 3AA (further powers to release prisoners)—

9.4.a

subsection (1)(b) and “or” immediately preceding it are repealed,

9.4.b

in subsection (4)—

9.4.b.i

in paragraph (a), after “large” insert  “(including any identifiable group of
people)” ,

9.4.b.ii

after that paragraph insert—

9.4.b.ii.aa

protecting a victim or any member of a victim’s family,

,

9.4.c

subsection (7) is repealed,

9.4.d

after subsection (7) insert—

9.4.d.7A

In subsection (4)(aa), “ victim ” means a person against or in respect of whom
an offence has been committeed by the prisoner.

,

9.4.e

in the section title, after “release” insert  “short-term” .

9.5

After that section insert—

########## Further powers to release long-term prisoners

9.5.3AB

9.5.3AB.1

The Scottish Ministers may release on licence under this section a long-term
prisoner whose release under section 1 has not been recommended by the Parole
Board.

9.5.3AB.2

Before releasing a long-term prisoner by virtue of subsection (1), the
Scottish Ministers must consult the Parole Board.

9.5.3AB.3

If directed to do so by the Parole Board, the Scottish Ministers must release
on licence under this section a long-term prisoner whose release on having
served one half of the prisoner’s sentence has been recommended by the Board.

9.5.3AB.4

In deciding whether to release a long-term prisoner by virtue of subsection
(1) or direct the release of a prisoner by virtue of subsection (3), the
Scottish Ministers or, as the case may be, the Parole Board must have regard
to considerations of—

9.5.3AB.4.a

protecting the public at large (including any identifiable group of people),

9.5.3AB.4.b

protecting a victim or any member of a victim’s family,

9.5.3AB.4.c

preventing re-offending by the prisoner, and

9.5.3AB.4.d

securing the successful re-integration of the prisoner into the community.

9.5.3AB.5

A long-term prisoner may not be released on licence under this section before
the beginning of the period of 180 days ending with the day on which the
prisoner will have served one half of the prisoner’s sentence.

9.5.3AB.6

The period for which a long-term prisoner is to be released on licence under
this section (the “release period”)—

9.5.3AB.6.a

may not exceed 180 days on any one occasion,

9.5.3AB.6.b

is to be specified—

9.5.3AB.6.b.i

where subsection (1) applies, by the Scottish Ministers,

9.5.3AB.6.b.ii

where subsection (3) applies, by the Parole Board.

9.5.3AB.7

Subject to subsection (6)(a), the Scottish Ministers or, as the case may be,
the Parole Board may extend the release period specified by virtue of
subsection (6)(b)(i) or, as the case may be, (ii).

9.5.3AB.8

For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this section requires the Scottish
Ministers or the Parole Board to make a decision by a particular date about
whether to release or, as the case may be, direct the release of a prisoner on
licence under this section.

9.5.3AB.9

Subsection (1) does not apply where—

9.5.3AB.9.a

the prisoner's sentence was imposed under section 210A of the 1995 Act,

9.5.3AB.9.b

the prisoner is subject to a hospital direction imposed under section 59A of
that Act or a transfer for treatment direction made under section 136(2) of
the Mental Health (Care and Treatment) (Scotland) Act 2003,

9.5.3AB.9.c

the prisoner is liable to removal from the United Kingdom (within the meaning
of section 9 of this Act).

9.5.3AB.10

In subsection (4)(b), “ victim ” means a person against or in respect of whom
an offence has been committed by the prisoner.

9.5.3AB.11

This section does not apply where the long-term prisoner is a person in
relation to whom section 1AB applies.

########## Further powers to release long-term prisoners: supplementary

9.5.3AC

9.5.3AC.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations do any or all of the following—

9.5.3AC.1.a

amend the number of days for the time being specified in section 3AB(5),

9.5.3AC.1.b

amend the number of days for the time being specified in section 3AB(6)(a),

9.5.3AC.1.c

amend any paragraph of section 3AB(9), add a further paragraph to that
subsection or repeal any of its paragraphs.

9.5.3AC.2

Regulations under subsection (1)—

9.5.3AC.2.a

may include incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory
or saving provision,

9.5.3AC.2.b

are subject to the affirmative procedure.

.

9.6

In section 11 (duration of licence)—

9.6.a

in subsection (3A), after “3AA” insert  “or 3AB” ,

9.6.b

after subsection (3B) insert—

9.6.b.3C

A licence granted under section 3AB remains in force (unless revoked)—

9.6.b.3C.a

in the case of a person released by virtue of section 3AB(1), until whichever
comes first—

9.6.b.3C.a.i

the date on which the release period specified by virtue of section
3AB(6)(b)(i) comes to an end,

9.6.b.3C.a.ii

where the Parole Board decides not to recommend the person’s release on
licence, the date of that decision,

9.6.b.3C.a.iii

where the Parole Board decides to recommend the person’s release on licence or
the person otherwise falls to be released by virtue of section 1, the date on
which the person would, but for their release under section 3AB(1), fall to be
released on licence under section 1,

9.6.b.3C.b

in the case of a person released by virtue of section 3AB(3), until the date
on which the person would, but for their release under section 3AB(3), fall to
be released on licence under section 1.

9.6.b.3D

On a licence under section 3AB ceasing to have effect as mentioned in
subsection (3C)(a)(i) or (ii), the released person is liable to be detained in
pursuance of the person’s sentence and, if at large, is deemed to be
unlawfully at large.

.

9.7

In section 12 (conditions in licence), in subsection (4A)—

9.7.a

for “3AA” substitute  “3AB(1)” ,

9.7.b

for “for the purposes of section 1(3) of this Act” substitute  “by virtue of
section 3AB(2)” .

9.8

In section 12AA (conditions for persons released on licence under section
3AA)—

9.8.a

in subsection (1), for “of this Act,” to the end substitute

—

9.8.a.a

any licence granted under section 3AA or 3AB(1) must include—

9.8.a.a.i

the standard conditions, and

9.8.a.a.ii

a curfew condition complying with section 12AB,

9.8.a.b

any licence granted under section 3AB(3) must include such a curfew condition.

,

9.8.b

in subsection (5), after “prescribed” insert

—

9.8.b.a

for licences granted under section 3AA and for licences granted under section
3AB(1),

9.8.b.b



,

9.8.c

in subsection (6)(a), after “above” insert  “in relation to licences granted
under section 3AA” ,

9.8.d

after subsection (6) insert—

9.8.d.7

Subsection (4) of section 3AB applies in relation to—

9.8.d.7.a

the exercise of the power of prescription conferred by subsection (3) in
relation to licences granted under section 3AB(1),

9.8.d.7.b

the specification, variation or cancellation of conditions, other than the
standard conditions, in a licence granted under section 3AB,

as it applies in relation to the exercise of the power conferred by subsection
(1) or, as the case may be, (3) of that section.

,

9.8.e

in the section title, after “3AA” insert  “or 3AB” .

9.9

In section 12B (certain licences to be replaced by one), in subsection (4),
after  “3AA”  insert  “or 3AB” .

9.10

In section 17 (revocation of licence), in subsection (7), after “3AA” insert
“or 3AB(1)” .

9.11

In section 17A (recall of prisoners released under section 3AA)—

9.11.a

in subsection (1), after “3AA” insert  “or 3AB(1)” ,

9.11.b

in subsection (5B), after “3AA” insert  “or, as the case may be, 3AB(1)” ,

9.11.c

in the section title, after “3AA” insert  “or 3AB(1)” .

9.12

In section 21A (operating protocol for release on licence under section 3AA)—

9.12.a

in subsection (1), after “3AA” in each place it occurs insert  “or 3AB” ,

9.12.b

in the section title, after “3AA” insert  “or 3AB” .

9.13

In section 32A of the Prisons (Scotland) Act 1989 (offence where person
unlawfully at large), in subsection (1)(a), after “section” insert  “11(3D),”
.

9.14

In section 7 of the Management of Offenders (Scotland) Act 2019 (list of
relevant conditions which may be monitored electronically), in subsection
(1)(a)—

9.14.a

for “12AA(1)(b)” substitute  “12AA(1)” ,

9.14.b

after “3AA” insert  “or 3AB” .

#### Review of recommendations and directions by Parole Board

10

10.1

The 1993 Act is amended as follows.

10.2

In section 17 (revocation of licence), after subsection (2) insert—

10.2.2A

Subsection (2B) applies where the Scottish Ministers, having released a long-
term prisoner on licence under section 3AB(3), revoke the licence and recall
the prisoner to prison under subsection (1) or revoke the licence under
subsection (1A).

10.2.2B

The Parole Board may, whether when considering the prisoner’s case on a
referral under subsection (3) or otherwise, review its recommendation that the
prisoner be released on licence on having served one half of the prisoner’s
sentence.

.

10.3

In section 17A (recall of prisoners released under section 3AA or 3AB(1))—

10.3.a

after subsection (2A) insert—

10.3.a.2B

Subsection (2C) applies where—

10.3.a.2B.a

the Scottish Ministers release a long-term prisoner on licence under section
3AB(1),

10.3.a.2B.b

the Parole Board subsequently recommends that the prisoner be released on
licence on having served one half of the prisoner’s sentence, and

10.3.a.2B.c

the Scottish Ministers revoke the licence under section 3AB(1) and recall the
prisoner to prison under subsection (1).

10.3.a.2C

The Parole Board may, whether or not the case is referred to it under
subsection (3), review its recommendation that the prisoner be released on
licence on having served one half of the prisoner’s sentence.

,

10.3.b

in subsection (3), for “such representations” substitute  “representations
under subsection (2)” .

10.4

After section 17A insert—

########## Review by Parole Board of decision to recommend or direct release on licence

10.4.17B

10.4.17B.1

This section applies where—

10.4.17B.1.a

the Parole Board recommends or directs that a prisoner be released on licence
under this Part, and

10.4.17B.1.b

the prisoner has not yet been released on licence as a result of the Board’s
recommendation or, as the case may be, direction.

10.4.17B.2

The Parole Board may, if subsection (3) applies, review its recommendation or,
as the case may be, direction that the prisoner be released on licence.

10.4.17B.3

This subsection applies if information comes to the Parole Board’s attention—

10.4.17B.3.a

that was not available to the Board when it made its recommendation or, as the
case may be, direction, and

10.4.17B.3.b

which, in the opinion of the Board, has a significant bearing on the
prisoner’s suitability for release on licence.

.

#### Power to release early

11

11.1

The 1993 Act is amended as follows.

11.2

After section 3B (review of decisions as to determinate sentences) insert—

########## Power to release early

11.2.3C

11.2.3C.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations provide that a person of a
description specified in the regulations is to be released from prison early
on a date that is—

11.2.3C.1.a

either—

11.2.3C.1.a.i

specified in the regulations, or

11.2.3C.1.a.ii

determined in accordance with provision made in the regulations, and

11.2.3C.1.b

not later than the regulations’ latest release date.

11.2.3C.2

The Scottish Ministers may make regulations under this section only if they
are satisfied that making the regulations is necessary and proportionate, in
response to the effects an emergency situation is having or is likely to have
on a prison or prisons generally, for the purpose of protecting—

11.2.3C.2.a

the security and good order of any prison to which the regulations would
relate, or

11.2.3C.2.b

the health, safety or welfare of prisoners, or those working, in any such
prison.

11.2.3C.3

Regulations under this section may—

11.2.3C.3.a

provide that long term prisoners released by virtue of those regulations are
released on licence,

11.2.3C.3.b

specify standard conditions which must be included in any licence granted by
virtue of  paragraph (a) .

11.2.3C.4

A person is not to be released from prison by virtue of regulations under this
section more than 180 days earlier than the Scottish Ministers would otherwise
be required to release the person.

11.2.3C.5

A person is not to be released from prison by virtue of regulations under this
section if—

11.2.3C.5.a

the person falls within  subsection (6) , or

11.2.3C.5.b

the governor of the prison within which the person is detained considers that
the person would, if released, pose an immediate risk of harm—

11.2.3C.5.b.i

to an identified person, or

11.2.3C.5.b.ii

to an identified group of people.

11.2.3C.6

A person falls within this subsection if the person is—

11.2.3C.6.a

a life prisoner,

11.2.3C.6.b

an untried prisoner,

11.2.3C.6.c

a terrorist prisoner within the meaning of section 1AB,

11.2.3C.6.d

due to serve a terrorism sentence within the meaning of section 1B but, by
virtue of that section, is not yet serving it,

11.2.3C.6.e

liable to removal from the United Kingdom for the purposes of section 9,

11.2.3C.6.f

subject to a supervised release order under section 209 of the Criminal
Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995,

11.2.3C.6.g

serving a sentence passed under section 210A of that Act (extended sentences
for sex, violent and terrorist offenders),

11.2.3C.6.h

the subject of proceedings under the Extradition Act 2003,

11.2.3C.6.i

subject to the notification requirements of Part 2 of the Sexual Offences Act
2003,

11.2.3C.6.j

serving a sentence of imprisonment or detention for an offence—

11.2.3C.6.j.i

that is aggravated as described in section 1(1)(a) of the Abusive Behaviour
and Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act 2016,

11.2.3C.6.j.ii

under section 1(1) of the Domestic Abuse (Scotland) Act 2018,

11.2.3C.6.j.iii

under section 7(1) or 17(1) of the Domestic Abuse (Protection) (Scotland) Act
2021,

11.2.3C.6.k

a long-term prisoner, unless that prisoner has been recommended for release by
the Parole Board at the date on which the regulations are made.

11.2.3C.7

The Scottish Ministers must, no later than one year after the date on which
this section comes into force and in such manner as they consider appropriate,
publish guidance about the application of subsection (5)(b).

11.2.3C.8

The Scottish Ministers may from time to time revise the guidance published
under subsection (7) and subsection (9) applies to any revised guidance.

11.2.3C.9

The governor of a prison must have regard to guidance published under
subsection (7) in considering the application of subsection (5)(b) in relation
to regulations made under this section.

11.2.3C.10

Regulations under this section may make different provision for different
purposes.

11.2.3C.11

In this section—

      “ emergency situation ” means—         the incidence or spread of
infection, contamination or the source of contamination which presents or
could present significant harm to human health in Scotland (whether from risks
originating there or elsewhere),           an event or situation which has
resulted in any prison (or part of a prison) to which the regulations would
relate being unusable,           any other event or situation which is
reasonably considered by the Scottish Ministers to place at significant risk—
the security and good order of a prison or prisons generally,           the
health, safety, and welfare of prisoners, or those working, in any such
prison,                       “ governor ” in relation to a prison, means—
the governor appointed for the prison under section 3(1A) of the Prisons
(Scotland) Act 1989, or           in the case of a contracted out prison, the
director appointed for the prison under section 107(1)(a) of the Criminal
Justice and Public Order Act 1994,                 “ latest release date ”
means a date specified in the regulations in question, which must be a date
within the period of 180 days beginning with the day that the regulations are
made,           “ untried prisoner ” means a person who, whether or not in
prison for any other reason, is in prison—         having been committed for
examination or trial on a criminal charge,           by virtue of remand in
custody under the Extradition Act 2003,           by virtue of detention under
schedule 2 or 3 of the Immigration Act 1971, or           following conviction
and awaiting sentence.

########## Parliamentary scrutiny of regulations made under 

11.2.3D

11.2.3D.1

Regulations under  section 3C  are subject to the affirmative procedure,
unless  subsection (2)  applies to them.

11.2.3D.2

This subsection applies to regulations if the Scottish statutory instrument
containing the regulations includes a declaration that the Scottish Ministers
are of the opinion that, by reason of urgency, it is necessary to make the
regulations without their being subject to the affirmative procedure.

11.2.3D.3

Where  subsection (2)  applies to regulations—

11.2.3D.3.a

section 30 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act 2010
does not apply to the regulations,

11.2.3D.3.b

the Scottish statutory instrument containing the regulations must be laid
before the Scottish Parliament as soon as practicable after they are made,

11.2.3D.3.c

the Scottish Ministers must explain why they are of the opinion that, by
reason of urgency, it is necessary to make the regulations without their being
subject to the affirmative procedure, and

11.2.3D.3.d

the regulations cease to have effect at the end of the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which they are made unless, during that period, the
Scottish statutory instrument containing them is approved by resolution of the
Parliament.

11.2.3D.4

In calculating the period of 28 days mentioned in  subsection (3) (d) , no
account is to be taken of any time during which the Scottish Parliament is—

11.2.3D.4.a

in recess for more than 4 days, or

11.2.3D.4.b

dissolved.

11.2.3D.5

Regulations ceasing to have effect by virtue of  subsection (3) (d)  neither—

11.2.3D.5.a

affects anything done under the regulations before they ceased to have effect,
nor

11.2.3D.5.b

prevents new regulations being made under  section 3C .

########## Effect of early release from prison or young offenders institution by virtue of regulations

11.2.3E

11.2.3E.1

A person described in the first column of the table below who is released from
custody by virtue of regulations under  section 3C  is deemed to have been
released by virtue of the provision of this Act mentioned in the corresponding
entry in the second column.

    Status of person immediately before release Provision of this Act by
virtue of which the person is deemed to have been released   A short-term
prisoner section 1(1) A long-term prisoner section 1(3) A person serving a
term of imprisonment or detention imposed on a basis mentioned in section
5(1)(a) or (b) (fine defaulters and persons in contempt of court) and who is,
for any purpose, to be treated as a short-term prisoner by virtue of that
section section 1(1), construed as required by section 5(2) A person serving a
term of imprisonment or detention imposed on a basis mentioned in section
5(1)(a) or (b) and who is, for any purpose, to be treated as a long-term
prisoner by virtue of that section section 1(3), construed as required by
section 5(2)   A person detained—         under section 208 of the Criminal
Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 (detention of children convicted on indictment),
or           in pursuance of an order under section 7(3) (children detained in
solemn proceedings)           section 7(2)

11.2.3E.2

In this section, “short-term prisoner” and “long-term prisoner” include a
person treated, for any purpose, as a short-term prisoner or (as the case may
be) a long term prisoner by virtue of section 6(1)(a) or 16(5)(a).

.

11.3

In section 12 (conditions in licence), after subsection (3) insert—

11.3.3A

Subsection (3)(b) does not apply in relation to a standard condition in a
licence granted by virtue of regulations under  section 3C (3) .

.

11.4

After that section insert—

########## Conditions for persons released on licence under 

11.4.12ZA

11.4.12ZA.1

Standard conditions specified by the Scottish Ministers in regulations under
section 3C (3)  remain in force (unless they are cancelled) in relation to a
released person until the date on which the released person would, but for
release by virtue of the regulations, fall to be released under section 1(3).

11.4.12ZA.2

Standard conditions specified by the Scottish Ministers in regulations under
section 3C (3)  may include a curfew condition complying with section 12AB.

.

#### Duty to engage in release planning

12

12.1

The Community Justice (Scotland) Act 2016 (“ the 2016 Act ”) is amended as
follows.

12.2

After section 34 (innovation, learning and development activity) insert—

########## Engagement in release planning

########### Duty to engage in release planning

12.2.34A

12.2.34A.1

Each person falling within  subsection (2)  must, so far as reasonably
practicable, comply with a request by the Scottish Ministers to engage in the
development, management and delivery of a release plan.

12.2.34A.2

The persons are—

12.2.34A.2.a

a local authority,

12.2.34A.2.b

a health board,

12.2.34A.2.c

the chief constable of the Police Service of Scotland,

12.2.34A.2.d

Skills Development Scotland,

12.2.34A.2.e

an integration joint board established by virtue of section 9 of the Public
Bodies (Joint Working) (Scotland) Act 2014.

12.2.34A.3

Engagement under  subsection (1)  must take place within the timescale
specified in the request.

12.2.34A.4

In complying with  subsection (1) , a person—

12.2.34A.4.a

must have regard to the role which third sector bodies are able to play in the
development, management and delivery of the release plan,

12.2.34A.4.b

may commission services from, or co-ordinate with existing services provided
by, third sector bodies as the person considers appropriate to meet the needs
of the individual to whom the release plan relates.

12.2.34A.5

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations—

12.2.34A.5.a

make further provision about engagement in the development, management, and
delivery of release plans,

12.2.34A.5.b

modify the list in  subsection (2) .

12.2.34A.6

Regulations under subsection (5)(a) may, in particular, make provision about—

12.2.34A.6.a

engagement in the development, management and delivery of release plans in
relation to relevant individuals who, having been remanded in custody, are
released from custody immediately on the conclusion of proceedings against
them,

12.2.34A.6.b

the appointment of a person to lead the management and delivery of a relevant
individual’s release plan following the individual’s release,

12.2.34A.6.c

how the duty of co-operation under section 35 is to operate in relation to the
duty to engage in the development, management, and delivery of release plans
under this section.

12.2.34A.7

Regulations under subsection (5)(a)—

12.2.34A.7.a

may include incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory
or saving provision,

12.2.34A.7.b

may modify enactments (including this Act).

12.2.34A.8

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

12.2.34A.9

In this section—

      “ release plan ” means a plan to—         prepare a relevant individual
for release,           facilitate—         the individual’s reintegration into
the community,           access by the individual to relevant general
services,                       “ relevant general services ” has the same
meaning as in section 1,           a “ relevant individual ” is an individual
who has been—         remanded in custody, or           convicted of offences
and sentenced to imprisonment or detention in a penal institution.

########## Guidance

########### Guidance

12.2.34B

12.2.34B.1

The Scottish Ministers must, no later than one year after the day on which
section 12(2) of the Bail and Release from Custody (Scotland) Act 2023 comes
into force for any purpose, publish guidance about engagement under section
34A(1).

12.2.34B.2

Such guidance may, in particular, include provision about—

12.2.34B.2.a

the issuing of a request for engagement,

12.2.34B.2.b

compliance with a request for engagement,

12.2.34B.2.c

how the duty of co-operation under section 35 is to operate in relation to the
duty to engage in the development, management, and delivery of release plans
under section 34A(1).

12.2.34B.3

In preparing, reviewing, and revising the guidance, the Scottish Ministers
must consult—

12.2.34B.3.a

Community Justice Scotland,

12.2.34B.3.b

each local authority,

12.2.34B.3.c

each health board,

12.2.34B.3.d

the chief constable of the Police Service of Scotland,

12.2.34B.3.e

Skills Development Scotland,

12.2.34B.3.f

the Risk Management Authority,

12.2.34B.3.g

an integration joint board established by virtue of section 9 of the Public
Bodies (Joint Working) (Scotland) Act 2014,

12.2.34B.3.h

each person—

12.2.34B.3.h.i

of a description prescribed by the Scottish Ministers by regulations, and

12.2.34B.3.h.ii

who is providing support services to victims in relation to offences
perpetrated against or in respect of those victims,

12.2.34B.3.i

such other persons as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

12.2.34B.4

The Scottish Ministers must keep the guidance under review and may publish
revised guidance whenever they consider it appropriate to do so.

12.2.34B.5

Where revised guidance is published under  subsection (4) , this section—

12.2.34B.5.a

ceases to apply in relation to the previous guidance,

12.2.34B.5.b

applies instead to the revised guidance (as it applied to the guidance
published under  subsection (1) ).

12.2.34B.6

In complying with a request to engage under section 34A(1), a person must have
regard to guidance published under this section.

12.2.34B.7

In this section, “ support services ” has the meaning given by section 34C(8).

12.2.34B.8

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify the definition of “support
services” in  subsection (7) .

12.2.34B.9

Regulations under  subsection (3) (h) (i)  and  (8) —

12.2.34B.9.a

may include incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory
or saving provision,

12.2.34B.9.b

may modify enactments (including this Act).

12.2.34B.10

Regulations—

12.2.34B.10.a

under  subsection (3) (h) (i) —

12.2.34B.10.a.i

which add to, replace or omit any part of the text of an Act are subject to
the affirmative procedure,

12.2.34B.10.a.ii

are otherwise subject to the negative procedure,

12.2.34B.10.b

under  subsection (8)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

.

#### Throughcare support

13

13.1

The 2016 Act is amended as follows.

13.2

After section 34B, as inserted by  section 12 , insert—

########## Throughcare support

########### Throughcare support standards

13.2.34C

13.2.34C.1

The Scottish Ministers must, no later than two years after the day on which
section 13(2) of the Bail and Release from Custody (Scotland) Act 2023 comes
into force, publish standards applicable to throughcare support in Scotland
(in this section, the “first standards”).

13.2.34C.2

The first standards—

13.2.34C.2.a

must make provision for minimum standards and outcomes to be met by all
providers of throughcare support in Scotland,

13.2.34C.2.b

may make such further provision in connection with throughcare support as the
Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

13.2.34C.3

The Scottish Ministers must keep the first standards under review and may
publish revised standards whenever they consider it appropriate to do so.

13.2.34C.4

In preparing, reviewing, and revising the first standards, the Scottish
Ministers must consult—

13.2.34C.4.a

Community Justice Scotland,

13.2.34C.4.b

each local authority,

13.2.34C.4.c

each health board,

13.2.34C.4.d

the chief constable of the Police Service of Scotland,

13.2.34C.4.e

Skills Development Scotland,

13.2.34C.4.f

the Risk Management Authority,

13.2.34C.4.g

Social Care and Social Work Improvement Scotland,

13.2.34C.4.h

an integration joint board established by virtue of section 9 of the Public
Bodies (Joint Working) (Scotland) Act 2014,

13.2.34C.4.i

third sector bodies—

13.2.34C.4.i.i

involved in community justice and the provision of throughcare support,

13.2.34C.4.i.ii

involved in or carrying out work related to the provision of support to
children and families affected by imprisonment,

13.2.34C.4.j

each person—

13.2.34C.4.j.i

of a description prescribed by the Scottish Ministers by regulations, and

13.2.34C.4.j.ii

who is providing support services to victims in relation to offences
perpetrated against or in respect of those victims,

13.2.34C.4.k

such other persons as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

13.2.34C.5

The Scottish Ministers must, after consulting on the first standards in
accordance with subsection (4) but before publishing those standards, publish
a draft of the standards for public consultation for such period, of at least
12 weeks, as they consider appropriate.

13.2.34C.6

The Scottish Ministers must, before or on publication of the first standards,
publish a report setting out—

13.2.34C.6.a

the consultation process undertaken in order to comply with subsection (5),
and

13.2.34C.6.b

the ways in which views expressed during that process have been taken account
of in preparing the first standards (or stating that no account has been taken
of such views).

13.2.34C.7

Where revised standards are published under  subsection (3) , this section—

13.2.34C.7.a

ceases to apply in relation to the previous standards,

13.2.34C.7.b

(other than subsections (5) and (6)) applies instead to the revised standards
(as it applied to the first standards published under  subsection (1) ).

13.2.34C.8

In this section—

      “ relevant general services ” has the same meaning as in section 1,
“ support services ”—         means any type of service or treatment which is
intended to benefit the physical or mental health or wellbeing of the victim,
and           includes—         providing the victim with information
(including information provided under section 16ZA(3) of the Criminal Justice
(Scotland) Act 2003),           assisting the victim with safety planning,
assisting the victim with the making of representations under Part 2 of the
Criminal Justice (Scotland) Act 2003,                       “ throughcare
support ” means in relation to individuals falling within  subsection (9) —
the provision of advice and guidance,           the provision of, and
facilitation of access to, opportunities to participate in activities designed
to eliminate or reduce future offending,           the provision of, and
facilitation of access to, emotional and practical support,           the
provision of help, including in particular to—         access and make use of
relevant general services and any relevant specialist services which are
available,           co-operate and comply with any relevant conditions, court
orders, and ongoing judicial or court processes,                 engagement in
release planning in accordance with  section 34A .

13.2.34C.9

An individual falls within this subsection if they have been either—

13.2.34C.9.a

remanded in custody, or

13.2.34C.9.b

convicted of offences and sentenced to imprisonment or detention in a penal
institution.

13.2.34C.10

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify the definition of “support
services” in subsection (8).

13.2.34C.11

Regulations under subsection (4)(j)(i) and (10)—

13.2.34C.11.a

may include incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory
or saving provision,

13.2.34C.11.b

may modify enactments (including this Act).

13.2.34C.12

Regulations—

13.2.34C.12.a

under subsection (4)(j)(i)—

13.2.34C.12.a.i

which add to, replace or omit any part of the text of an Act are subject to
the affirmative procedure,

13.2.34C.12.a.ii

are otherwise subject to the negative procedure,

13.2.34C.12.b

under subsection (10) are subject to the affirmative procedure.

########### Throughcare support standards: duty to comply

13.2.34D

13.2.34D.1

Each person falling within  subsection (2)  must, in exercising functions
relating to the provision of throughcare support, comply with the standards
published or revised under  section 34C .

13.2.34D.2

The persons are—

13.2.34D.2.a

each local authority,

13.2.34D.2.b

each health board,

13.2.34D.2.c

Skills Development Scotland,

13.2.34D.2.d

an integration joint board established by virtue of section 9 of the Public
Bodies (Joint Working) (Scotland) Act 2014,

13.2.34D.2.e

the Scottish Ministers.

13.2.34D.3

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify the list in  subsection (2) .

13.2.34D.4

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

.

#### Provision of information to victim support organisations

14

14.1

The Criminal Justice (Scotland) Act 2003 is amended as follows.

14.2

After section 16 (victim’s right to receive information concerning release
etc. of offender) insert—

########## Provision of information to person supporting victim

14.2.16ZA

14.2.16ZA.1

This section applies where—

14.2.16ZA.1.a

a person entitled to receive information under section 16 (the “victim”)
intimates to the Scottish Ministers that a person to whom subsection (2)
applies (the “supporter”) is to be given, as well as or instead of the victim,
the information described in section 16(3) in relation to the person convicted
of the offence perpetrated against the victim, or

14.2.16ZA.1.b

a supporter intimates to the Scottish Ministers that they wish to be given
that information and Ministers are satisfied that the victim consents to the
supporter being given the information.

14.2.16ZA.2

This subsection applies to a person—

14.2.16ZA.2.a

of a description prescribed by the Scottish Ministers by regulations, and

14.2.16ZA.2.b

who is providing support services to the victim in relation to the offence
perpetrated against the victim.

14.2.16ZA.3

The Scottish Ministers must, unless they consider that there are exceptional
circumstances which make it inappropriate to do so, give the supporter such
information as is described in section 16(3).

14.2.16ZA.4

Subsection (3) does not apply where the person convicted of the offence
perpetrated against the victim is released before attaining the age of 16
years.

14.2.16ZA.5

In this section, “support services”—

14.2.16ZA.5.a

means any type of service or treatment which is intended to benefit the
physical or mental health or wellbeing of the victim, and

14.2.16ZA.5.b

includes—

14.2.16ZA.5.b.i

providing the victim with information (including information provided under
subsection (3)),

14.2.16ZA.5.b.ii

assisting the victim with safety planning,

14.2.16ZA.5.b.iii

assisting the victim with the making of representations under this Part.

14.2.16ZA.6

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify the definition of “support
services” in subsection (5).

14.2.16ZA.7

Regulations under subsection (2)(a) and (6) may—

14.2.16ZA.7.a

include incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory or
saving provision,

14.2.16ZA.7.b

modify enactments (including this Act).

14.2.16ZA.8

Regulations—

14.2.16ZA.8.a

under subsection (2)(a)—

14.2.16ZA.8.a.i

which add to, replace or omit any part of the text of an Act are subject to
the affirmative procedure,

14.2.16ZA.8.a.ii

are otherwise subject to the negative procedure,

14.2.16ZA.8.b

under subsection (6) are subject to the affirmative procedure.

.

14.3

After section 16C (information to be given under section 16A) insert—

########## Provision of information concerning offender subject to compulsion order to person supporting victim

14.3.16D

14.3.16D.1

This section applies where—

14.3.16D.1.a

a person entitled to ask to be given information under section 16A (the
“victim”) intimates to the Scottish Ministers that a person to whom subsection
(2) applies (the “supporter”) is to be given, as well as or instead of the
victim, the information described in section 16C about the person referred to
in section 16A as O, or

14.3.16D.1.b

a supporter intimates to the Scottish Ministers that they wish to be given
that information and Ministers are satisfied that the victim consents to the
supporter being given the information.

14.3.16D.2

This subsection applies to a person—

14.3.16D.2.a

of a description prescribed by the Scottish Ministers by regulations, and

14.3.16D.2.b

who is providing support services to the victim in relation to the offence in
respect of which O has been made subject to a compulsion order and a
restriction order.

14.3.16D.3

The Scottish Ministers must give the information about O described in section
16C to the supporter.

14.3.16D.4

But the Scottish Ministers—

14.3.16D.4.a

need not give the supporter information under this section if they consider
there to be exceptional circumstances which make it inappropriate to do so,

14.3.16D.4.b

are not to give the supporter information about the terms of a condition in
accordance with section 16C(2)(h) unless the condition is relevant to the
victim as described in section 18A(3).

14.3.16D.5

Subsection (3) does not apply where O has not attained the age of 16 years.

14.3.16D.6

If the compulsion order or restriction order to which O has been made subject
is revoked, subsection (3) ceases to apply when the Scottish Ministers give
the victim or, as the case may be, the supporter the information that—

14.3.16D.6.a

the order has been revoked, and

14.3.16D.6.b

the decision to revoke it is final.

14.3.16D.7

In this section, “ support services ” has the same meaning as in section
16ZA(5).

14.3.16D.8

Regulations under subsection (2)(a)—

14.3.16D.8.a

may—

14.3.16D.8.a.i

include incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory or
saving provision,

14.3.16D.8.a.ii

modify enactments (including this Act),

14.3.16D.8.b

which add to, replace or omit any part of the text of an Act are subject to
the affirmative procedure,

14.3.16D.8.c

are otherwise subject to the negative procedure.

.

14.4

After section 17 (release on licence: right of victim to receive information
and make representations) insert—

########## Release on licence: provision of information to person supporting victim

14.4.17ZA

14.4.17ZA.1

This section applies where—

14.4.17ZA.1.a

a person entitled to receive information under section 16 (the “victim”) as
respects a convicted person intimates that they wish a person entitled to
receive information under section 16ZA (the “supporter”) to be informed before
any decision is taken to release the convicted person, or

14.4.17ZA.1.b

the supporter intimates that they wish to be so informed and the Scottish
Ministers are satisfied that the victim consents to the supporter being so
informed.

14.4.17ZA.2

The Scottish Ministers must, whether or not the victim has intimated the wish
to be afforded the opportunity to make representations under section 17(1),
give the supporter—

14.4.17ZA.2.a

notice as mentioned in section 17(5), (7) and (9), and

14.4.17ZA.2.b

the information mentioned in section 17(10).

14.4.17ZA.3

The Parole Board for Scotland must give the supporter the information
mentioned in section 17(6) and (8) (whether or not the victim has intimated
the desire to receive that information).

14.4.17ZA.4

Subsections (2) and (3) do not apply where the convicted person has not
attained the age of 16 years by the date on which the case is referred to the
Parole Board by the Scottish Ministers.

14.4.17ZA.5

This section does not apply—

14.4.17ZA.5.a

as respects release under section 3 of the 1993 Act (release on compassionate
grounds),

14.4.17ZA.5.b

where the victim’s entitlement to receive information under section 16 arises
by virtue of section 16(4)(a).

.

14.5

In section 17A (temporary release: victim’s right to make representations
about conditions)—

14.5.a

for subsection (1) substitute—

14.5.a.1

This section applies where—

14.5.a.1.a

by virtue of subsection (1) or (5) of section 16 a person (the “victim”), or

14.5.a.1.b

by virtue of section 16ZA(3), a person entitled to receive information under
that section (the “supporter”),

is given the information mentioned in section 16(3)(d) as respects a convicted
person.

,

14.5.b

in subsection (4)(b), after “victim” insert  “or, as the case may be, the
supporter” .

14.6

After section 17D (right to information after section 17B decision) insert—

########## Section 17B decision: provision of information to person supporting victim

14.6.17DA

14.6.17DA.1

This section applies where—

14.6.17DA.1.a

a person entitled to receive information under section 17D (the “victim”)
intimates to the Scottish Ministers that a person to whom subsection (2)
applies (the “supporter”) is to receive, as well as or instead of the victim,
the information, or

14.6.17DA.1.b

a supporter intimates to the Scottish Ministers that they wish to receive that
information and Ministers are satisfied that the victim consents to the
supporter receiving the information.

14.6.17DA.2

This subsection applies to a person—

14.6.17DA.2.a

of a description prescribed by the Scottish Ministers by regulations, and

14.6.17DA.2.b

who is providing support services to the victim in relation to the offence in
respect of which the person referred to in section 17B as O has been made
subject to—

14.6.17DA.2.b.i

a hospital direction,

14.6.17DA.2.b.ii

a transfer for treatment direction, or, as the case may be,

14.6.17DA.2.b.iii

a compulsion order and a restriction order.

14.6.17DA.3

The Scottish Ministers must, unless they consider that there are exceptional
circumstances which make it inappropriate to do so, inform the supporter that
the decision under section 17B has been taken.

14.6.17DA.4

Subsection (5) applies where—

14.6.17DA.4.a

in accordance with subsection (3), the Scottish Ministers have informed the
supporter that the Tribunal has decided to make an order revoking a compulsion
order or restriction order, and

14.6.17DA.4.b

by virtue of section 196 of the Mental Health Act, the Tribunal's order does
not have effect because the Court of Session has made an order under section
323(1) of that Act.

14.6.17DA.5

The Scottish Ministers must—

14.6.17DA.5.a

inform the supporter that the Court of Session has made an order under section
323(1) of the Mental Health Act, and

14.6.17DA.5.b

give the supporter the information that they would have had to give the
supporter by virtue of section 16C(4) had the Court not made that order.

14.6.17DA.6

In this section, “ support services ” has the same meaning as in section
16ZA(5).

14.6.17DA.7

Regulations under subsection (2)(a)—

14.6.17DA.7.a

may—

14.6.17DA.7.a.i

include incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory or
saving provision,

14.6.17DA.7.a.ii

modify enactments (including this Act),

14.6.17DA.7.b

which add to, replace or omit any part of the text of an Act are subject to
the affirmative procedure,

14.6.17DA.7.c

are otherwise subject to the negative procedure.

.

14.7

In section 17E (information sharing in respect of mentally-disordered
offenders)—

14.7.a

in subsection (1)—

14.7.a.i

for “or 16A” substitute  “, 16ZA, 16A or 16D” ,

14.7.a.ii

after “(“ V ”)” insert  “or, as the case may be, a supporter” ,

14.7.b

in subsection (3), after “17D” insert  “or to a supporter under section 16ZA,
16D or 17DA” ,

14.7.c

in subsection (5), for “or 16A” substitute  “16ZA, 16A or, as the case may be,
16D” ,

14.7.d

after subsection (5) insert—

14.7.d.6

In this section, “ supporter ” is to be construed in accordance with section
16ZA, 16D or, as the case may be, 17DA.

.

14.8

In section 18A (interpretation)—

14.8.a

in subsection (3)—

14.8.a.i

after “16A(3)(b)” insert  “, 16D(4)(b)” ,

14.8.a.ii

in paragraph (b), after “V” insert  “or, as the case may be, a supporter” ,

14.8.b

after subsection (4) insert—

14.8.b.5

In this section, “ supporter ” is to be construed in accordance with section
16D or, as the case may be, 17DA.

.

14.9

In section 18B (power to modify Part)—

14.9.a

in subsection (1)(a), for “16A and 16B,” substitute  “16ZA, 16A, 16B, 16D(5)
and 17ZA(4),” ,

14.9.b

in subsection (2)(a), for “section 16A” substitute  “sections 16A and 16D” ,

14.9.c

in subsection (3), after “16A” in both places insert  “, 16D” .

14.10

In section 87(1) (interpretation), in the definition of “prescribed”, for
“section” substitute  “sections 16ZA(2)(a), 16D(2)(a), 17DA(2)(a) and” .

14.11

The Victims and Witnesses (Scotland) Act 2014 is amended as follows.

14.12

After section 27A (notification of victims in relation to release etc. of
short-term prisoners) insert—

########## Provision of information to person supporting victim

14.12.27B

14.12.27B.1

This section applies where—

14.12.27B.1.a

a person entitled to receive information under section 27A (“ V ”) intimates
to the Scottish Ministers that a person to whom subsection (2) applies (the
“supporter”) is to be given, as well as or instead of V, the information
described in section 27A(1) in relation to the person sentenced to
imprisonment or detention (“ A ”), or

14.12.27B.1.b

a supporter intimates to the Scottish Ministers that they wish to be given
that information and Ministers are satisfied that V consents to the supporter
being given the information.

14.12.27B.2

This subsection applies to a person—

14.12.27B.2.a

of a description prescribed by the Scottish Ministers by regulations, and

14.12.27B.2.b

who is providing support services to V in relation to the offence perpetrated
against V by A.

14.12.27B.3

The Scottish Ministers must notify the supporter of the matters mentioned in
section 27A(1).

14.12.27B.4

Section 27A(2) and (3) apply to notification under subsection (3) as they
apply to notification under section 27A(1).

14.12.27B.5

In this section, “ support services ” has the same meaning as in section
16ZA(5) of the 2003 Act.

14.12.27B.6

Regulations under subsection (2)(a) may—

14.12.27B.6.a

include incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory or
saving provision,

14.12.27B.6.b

modify enactments (including this Act).

14.12.27B.7

Regulations under subsection (2)(a)—

14.12.27B.7.a

which add to, replace or omit any part of the text of an Act are subject to
the affirmative procedure,

14.12.27B.7.b

are otherwise subject to the negative procedure.

.

#### Report on operation of Part 2

15

15.1

The Scottish Ministers must, as soon as reasonably practicable after the end
of the reporting period, lay before the Scottish Parliament a report on the
operation of the modifications of enactments made by this Part.

15.2

In preparing the report, the Scottish Ministers must consult—

15.2.a

Community Justice Scotland,

15.2.b

each local authority,

15.2.c

each health board,

15.2.d

the chief constable of the Police Service of Scotland,

15.2.e

Skills Development Scotland,

15.2.f

the Risk Management Authority,

15.2.g

the Parole Board for Scotland,

15.2.h

Social Care and Social Work Improvement Scotland,

15.2.i

each integration joint board established by virtue of section 9 of the Public
Bodies (Joint Working) (Scotland) Act 2014,

15.2.j

third sector bodies—

15.2.j.i

involved in community justice and the provision of throughcare support,

15.2.j.ii

involved in or carrying out work related to the provision of support to
children and families affected by imprisonment,

15.2.k

persons who are providing support services to victims in relation to offences
perpetrated against or in respect of those victims,

15.2.l

such other persons as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

15.3

In this section—

      “ health board ” means a board constituted under section 2(1)(a) of the
National Health Service (Scotland) Act 1978,           “ reporting period ”
means the period of 5 years beginning with the day after Royal Assent,
“ Skills Development Scotland ” means the company limited by guarantee
registered in Scotland with company number SC202659,           “ support
services ” has the meaning given by section 34C(8) of the 2016 Act (as
inserted by section 13(2)),           “ third sector bodies ” means bodies
(whether or not formally constituted) established for purposes which consist
of, or consist mainly of, providing benefits for society (but do not include
bodies established under an enactment).

### FINAL PROVISIONS

#### Interpretation

16

In this Act—

      “ the 1993 Act ” means the Prisoners and Criminal Proceedings (Scotland)
Act 1993,           “ the 1995 Act ” means the Criminal Procedure (Scotland)
Act 1995,           “ the 2016 Act ” means the Community Justice (Scotland)
Act 2016.

#### Ancillary provision

17

17.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make any incidental, supplementary,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision they consider
appropriate for the purposes of, in connection with or for giving full effect
to this Act.

17.2

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may—

17.2.a

modify any enactment (including this Act),

17.2.b

make different provision for different purposes.

17.3

Regulations under  subsection (1) —

17.3.a

are subject to the affirmative procedure if they add to, replace or omit any
part of the text of an Act,

17.3.b

otherwise are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Commencement

18

18.1

This section  and sections  6 ,  7 ,  15  to  17  and  19  come into force on
the day after Royal Assent.

18.2

The other provisions of this Act come into force on such day as the Scottish
Ministers may by regulations appoint.

18.3

Regulations under  subsection (2)  may—

18.3.a

include transitional, transitory or saving provision,

18.3.b

make different provision for different purposes.

#### Short title

19

The short title of this Act is the Bail and Release from Custody (Scotland)
Act 2023.

