Title: Budget (Scotland) Act 2023
Date: 2024-07-07
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2023/2

## Budget (Scotland) Act 2023

### Financial year 2023/24

#### Use of resources etc.

##### The Scottish Administration

1

1.1

The Scottish Administration may use resources in financial year 2023/24 for
the purposes specified in column 1 of  schedule 1 —

1.1.a

in the case of resources other than accruing resources, up to the amounts
specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 of that schedule,

1.1.b

in the case of accruing resources, up to the amounts specified in the
corresponding entries in column 3 of that schedule.

1.2

Despite paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of  subsection (1) , the resources which
may be used for a purpose specified in column 1 may exceed the amount
specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 or (as the case may be)
column 3 if—

1.2.a

in the case of resources other than accruing resources, the first condition is
met,

1.2.b

in the case of accruing resources, the second condition is met.

1.3

The first condition is that the total resources (other than accruing
resources) used in financial year 2023/24 for all purposes specified in column
1 does not exceed the total of the amounts specified in column 2.

1.4

The second condition is that the total accruing resources used in financial
year 2023/24 for all purposes specified in column 1 does not exceed the total
of the amounts specified in column 3.

##### Direct-funded bodies

2

2.1

A direct-funded body may use resources in financial year 2023/24 for the
purposes specified in column 1 of  schedule 2  in relation to the body.

2.2

Resources other than accruing resources may be used for those purposes up to
the amounts specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 of that
schedule.

2.3

Accruing resources may be used for those purposes up to the amounts specified
in the corresponding entries in column 3 of that schedule.

##### Borrowing by statutory bodies

3

In  schedule 3 , the amounts set out in column 2 are the amounts specified for
financial year 2023/24 for the purposes of the enactments listed in the
corresponding entries in column 1 (which make provision as to the net
borrowing of the statutory bodies mentioned in that column).

#### The Scottish Consolidated Fund

##### Overall cash authorisations

4

4.1

For the purposes of section 4(2) of the PFA Act 2000, the overall cash
authorisations for financial year 2023/24 are as follows.

4.2

In relation to the Scottish Administration,  £52,607,367,000 .

4.3

In relation to the direct-funded bodies—

4.3.a

the Scottish Parliamentary Corporate Body,  £117,709,000 ,

4.3.b

Audit Scotland,  £11,152,000 .

##### Contingency payments

5

5.1

This section  applies where, in financial year 2023/24, it is proposed to pay
out of the Scottish Consolidated Fund under section 65(1)(c) of the Scotland
Act 1998—

5.1.a

for or in connection with expenditure of the Scottish Administration, a sum
which does not fall within the amount specified in  section 4 (2)  in relation
to it, or

5.1.b

for or in connection with expenditure of a direct-funded body, a sum which
does not fall within the amount specified in  section 4 (3)  in relation to
the body.

5.2

The sum may be paid out of the Fund only if its payment is authorised by the
Scottish Ministers.

5.3

The Scottish Ministers may authorise payment of the sum only if they consider
that—

5.3.a

the payment is necessarily required in the public interest to meet urgent
expenditure for a purpose falling within section 65(2) of the Scotland Act
1998, and

5.3.b

it is not reasonably practicable, for reasons of urgency, to amend the overall
cash authorisation by regulations under  section 7 .

5.4

But the Scottish Ministers must not authorise payment of the sum if it would
result in an excess of sums paid out of the Fund over sums paid into the Fund.

5.5

The aggregate amount of the sums which the Scottish Ministers may authorise to
be paid out of the Fund under  this section  must not exceed £50,000,000.

5.6

Where the Scottish Ministers authorise a payment under  this section  they
must, as soon as possible, lay before the Scottish Parliament a report setting
out the circumstances of the authorisation and why they considered it to be
necessary.

### Financial year 2024/25

#### Emergency arrangements

6

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Miscellaneous

#### Amendment and repeal

##### Budget revision regulations

7

7.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations amend—

7.1.a

the amounts specified in  section 4 (2)  and  (3) ,

7.1.b

  schedules 1  to  3 .

7.2

Regulations under  this section  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Repeal of spent provisions

8

Part 2 (financial year 2023/24) of the Budget (Scotland) Act 2022 is repealed.

#### Final provisions

##### Interpretation

9

9.1

In this Act, the “ PFA Act 2000 ” means the Public Finance and Accountability
(Scotland) Act 2000.

9.2

References in this Act to accruing resources in relation to the Scottish
Administration or a direct-funded body are to such resources accruing to the
Administration or (as the case may be) that body in financial year 2023/24.

9.3

References in this Act to the direct-funded bodies are to the bodies listed in
section 4 (3)  (and references to a direct-funded body are to either of those
bodies).

9.4

Except where otherwise expressly provided, expressions used in this Act and in
the PFA Act 2000 have the same meanings in this Act as they have in that Act.

##### Commencement

10

This Act comes into force on the day after Royal Assent.

##### Short title

11

The short title of this Act is the Budget (Scotland) Act 2023.

The Scottish Administration

(introduced by  section 1 )

Purposes Amount of resources, other than accruing resources (£) Amount of
accruing resources (£) 1. Through their   NHS Recovery,  Health and Social
Care portfolio, for use by the Scottish Ministers on: operational and
administrative costs; hospital and community health services; family health
services, including local GP practices, pharmacy, dental and ophthalmic
services; community care; mental health services; capital investment; health
and social care integration outcomes framework; delivery of services by
digital means and communication; care, support and rights; social care
support; early years; other health and social care services; the Independent
Living Fund Scotland; the Mental Welfare Commission for Scotland; Social Care
and Social Work Improvement Scotland; the Scottish Sports Council; Active
Healthy Lives. 19,073,727,000 3,000,000,000 2. Through their Social Justice
... portfolio, for use by the Scottish Ministers on: operational and
administrative costs;  ... grant assistance and funding of strategic
programmes to create the best conditions for the third sector and volunteering
to thrive; building standards; housing subsidies and guarantees; repayment of
debt and associated costs; other expenditure, contributions and grants
relating to housing;   funding for the Scottish Fuel Poverty Advisory Panel;
activities relating to homelessness; research and publicity and other
portfolio services; grants to local authorities and registered social
landlords;  funding the operation of the Scottish Housing Regulator so that it
can meet its statutory objectives;   loans to individuals;   assessment and
remediation of certain types of buildings with unsafe cladding; development of
a register to document the assessment and completion of remediation of unsafe
cladding and to establish one or more schemes to require developers to
contribute towards such assessment and remediation;   social justice
activities, including tackling poverty and inequality with a particular focus
on child poverty; grants and loans to organisations; funding for advice and
advocacy services; funding to support the design, development and
implementation of social security powers; funding for Social Security
Scotland; funding for the Scottish Commission on Social Security; funding of
payments of social security assistance; funding to tackle poverty; grant
assistance; funding of strategic contracts; expenditure relating to equality
and human rights issues, including grants to organisations; expenditure
relating to tackling hate crime; expenditure relating to supporting people who
are destitute, including refugees and asylum seekers, and in particular the
Warm Scots Welcome scheme for resettling displaced people from Ukraine in
Scotland; expenditure relating to community support, resilience and engagement
; talent attraction and retention . 6,674,486,500 90,000,000 3. Through their
Wellbeing Economy, Fair Work and Energy   portfolio, for use by the Scottish
Ministers on: operational and administrative costs;  ... expenditure on
committees, commissions and other portfolio services;  ... support for Growth
Accelerator  ... programmes;  ... grant in aid for Scottish Enterprise,
Highlands and Islands Enterprise and South of Scotland Enterprise; industry,
innovation  , entrepreneurship   and technology/digital grants and support for
low carbon economy; sundry enterprise-related activities; expenditure in
relation to the running costs of the Office of the Chief Economic Adviser;
... grant in aid for the Scottish National Investment Bank;  ... European
Structural Fund grants to the Enterprise Networks, local authorities, further
and higher education institutions, third sector bodies and other eligible
bodies and organisations; costs of delivery and evaluation of European
Structural Fund; funding for employment support, learning opportunities,
workforce development and supporting fair work principles;  ... funding for
City and Regional Growth Deals; support for Ferguson Marine; VisitScotland;
tourism; digital and broadband connectivity;  ... support for inward trade and
investment and exports  ; investment in energy decarbonisation and hydrogen,
carbon capture, utilisation and storage (CCUS) and negative emissions
technologies; Fuel Insecurity Fund; and support of offshore wind supply chain
opportunities . 1,323,973,000 400,000,000 4. Through their Education and
Skills portfolio, for use by the Scottish Ministers on: operational and
administrative costs; schools; training and development of teachers;
educational research, development and promotion; Scottish Attainment Challenge
related programmes; provision of Pupil Equity Funding;   pupil support and
wellbeing;  supporting implementation of education reforms; the Gaelic
language; Bòrd na Gàidhlig; Gaelic Media Service (MG Alba); the Scots
language; funding of Education Scotland, Disclosure Scotland and Additional
Support Needs Tribunals for Scotland; funding expansion of early learning and
childcare; child protection   ;   care for looked after and vulnerable
children;  supporting care experienced children and young people; Caregivers;
youth justice and preventing offending by children and young people; secure
care for children and young people; advocacy for children and young people;
development of the social services workforce;   supporting children’s services
reform;  supporting quality improvement and improvement science through the
children and young people improvement collaborative; development of the
community learning and development workforce; parenting and play; support for
families with severely disabled children;   supporting disabled children and
young people;  early intervention funding for the third sector through the
Children, Young People, Families and Adult Learning Fund; running costs of the
Scottish Child Abuse Inquiry; implementation of The Promise and running costs
of The Promise Scotland;  holistic Whole Family Wellbeing;   incorporation of
the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child; implementation of
Getting It Right For Every Child; financial redress for survivors of child
abuse in care; central government grants to local authorities for Gaelic,
raising attainment and early learning and childcare; grant funding for the
Scottish Credit and Qualifications Framework Partnership and Scottish
Qualifications Authority accreditation; grant in aid for the Scottish Further
and Higher Education Funding Council, Scottish Qualifications Authority
(including qualifications delivery and development), Children's Hearings
Scotland, Scottish Children's Reporter Administration, Scottish Social
Services Council and Redress Scotland; grant in aid for Skills Development
Scotland; administration funding for the Student Awards Agency Scotland
(SAAS); funding administered by SAAS for fees, grants, bursaries, student
loans and related costs of higher education student support; Enterprise in
Education; activities associated with the Chief Scientific Adviser for
Scotland and the promotion of science; international and other educational
services; funding for international college and university activities; sundry
lifelong learning activities, including community-based adult learning;
funding activities for young people to develop skills in connection with
training and work; funding   to support people and businesses to develop and
apply their skills ; the provision of Education Maintenance Allowances.
5,174,359,770 350,000,000 5. Through their Justice and   Home Affairs
portfolio, for use by the Scottish Ministers on: operational and
administrative costs; legal aid, including the running costs of the Scottish
Legal Aid Board; criminal injuries compensation (including administration);
support for victims and witnesses of crime, victims of human trafficking and
addressing violence against women and girls; certain services relating to
crime, including the Parole Board for Scotland; the Scottish Prison Service;
the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission; the Scottish Law Commission;
the Risk Management Authority; the Scottish Police Authority, the Police
Investigations and Review Commissioner and His Majesty’s Inspectors of
Constabulary in Scotland; additional police services; the running costs of
inquiries and reviews; the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service and His Majesty’s
Inspectors of the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service; the payment of police and
fire pensions; cyber resilience; central government grants to local
authorities for criminal justice social work; measures to create safer and
stronger communities, including Community Justice Scotland; miscellaneous
services relating to the administration of justice; veterans; community
justice services; court services, including judicial pensions; certain legal
services; costs and fees in connection with legal proceedings. 3,367,491,000
39,700,000 6. Through their   Transport, Net Zero and Just Transition
portfolio, for use by the Scottish Ministers on: operational and
administrative costs; support for passenger rail services, rail infrastructure
and associated rail services; support for the development and delivery of
concessionary travel schemes; support for the bus industry; funding for major
public transport projects; the running costs of Transport Scotland; funding
for the Strategic Transport Projects Review; funding for travel information
services and accessible travel; the maintenance and enhancement of the trunk
road network; support for ferry services, loans and grants relating to vessel
construction or procurement, grants for pier, harbour and other port
infrastructure; support for Highlands and Islands Airports Limited; support
and loans for investment in air services; funding for the Air Discount Scheme;
support for the Tay Road Bridge Joint Board; support for the freight industry;
support for Scottish Canals; funding to promote sustainable and active travel;
funding and loans to support net-zero emissions and climate change transport
initiatives; contributing to the running costs of Regional Transport
Partnerships and other bodies associated with the transport sector; support
for the Glasgow Subway Modernisation programme; funding for road safety; costs
in relation to funding the office of the Scottish Road Works Commissioner;
costs related to public inquiries; funding for domestic energy efficiency,
insulation and refurbishment projects; funding for domestic and non-domestic
energy-related activities;  ... central government grants to local
authorities;  ... action to prevent waste, improve recycling, reduce emissions
from waste, tackle litter and deliver a circular economy strategy;  ...
addressing biodiversity loss  ... and nature restoration; environmental
protection; other environmental expenditure; flood prevention; coastal
protection; air quality monitoring; climate change activities, including the
Land Managers’ Renewables Fund and Climate Justice Fund;  ... Scottish Natural
Heritage; the Scottish Environment Protection Agency; the National Park
authorities;  ... water grants, including to the Water Industry Commission for
Scotland and funding for the Drinking Water Quality Regulator for Scotland;
loans to Scottish Water and Scottish Water Business Stream Holdings Limited;
the Green Jobs Fund; the Green Growth Accelerator . 4,068,650,000 600,000,000
7. Through their Rural Affairs   , Land Reform  and Islands portfolio, for use
by the Scottish Ministers on: operational and administrative costs; market
support, including grants in relation to agriculture and food and drink;
support for agriculture,  ... rural development;  ... agri-environmental and
farm woodland measures; animal health and welfare; plant health;  ...
agricultural support reform;   land based learning; funding for land reform
and community ownership; the Scottish Land Commission;  providing assistance
to help the seafood sector and the wider food supply chain through the Marine
Fund Scotland; rural affairs; support for crofting communities, including the
crofting environment; funding for National Islands Plan related initiatives
and actions required to implement the Islands (Scotland) Act 2018; funding to
support six islands to become carbon neutral by 2040; core marine functions
involving scientific research, marine and biodiversity protection, marine
fisheries enforcement, policy and management of Scotland’s seas, aquaculture
and freshwater fisheries policy, administration of all marine consents
required for depositing substances at sea, coastal protection and offshore
renewables, representing Scotland’s interests in relation to international
fisheries policy, and sponsorship of Crown Estate Scotland  ; peatland
restoration; wildlife management; analytical and scientific support to help
improve rural and environmental policy including funding of environment,
natural resources and agriculture research: Strategy 2022-27 (ENRA), and First
Minister’s Environmental Council; Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh; Scottish
Forestry; the promotion of forestry and land management, including advising on
the development and delivery of forestry policy; regulating the forestry
sector and supporting it through grants; Forestry and Land Scotland; managing
Scotland’s national forests and land . 1,146,282,000 300,000,000 8. Through
their Constitution, External Affairs and Culture portfolio, for use by the
Scottish Ministers on: operational and administrative costs; support for the
arts, culture and creativity in Scotland; cultural and heritage organisations;
the creative industries; central government grants to non-departmental public
bodies, local authorities and other bodies and organisations; architecture and
design maximising the benefits of good quality design to improve the
development of Scotland’s places; funding to support Royal and ceremonial
activity; international and European relations; protecting Scotland’s place in
Europe; development assistance;  .... 272,456,000 200,000,000 9. Through their
Deputy First Minister and   Finance   portfolio, for use by the Scottish
Ministers on: operational and administrative costs;   the running and capital
costs of the Scottish Public Pensions Agency; financial support to local
authorities, including the guaranteed combined general revenue grant and
distributable non-domestic rates income; general capital grants and other
local authority revenue and capital grants for specific purposes, including
the Transfer of the Management of Development Funding and the Vacant and
Derelict Land Fund; other services, including discretionary payments under the
Bellwin scheme covering floods, storms and other emergencies; funding to
support research and the development and design of local taxation and local
government governance;   supporting the delivery of statutory functions for
Ministerial oversight of the Planning system; supporting regeneration policy
and targeted investment to tackle inequalities and support inclusive economic
development;  expenditure on corporate and central services, funding to
support the central   strategy, performance and delivery   functions of the
organisation ; funding to support electoral administration; funding of
Boundaries Scotland;   funding of the Accountant in Bankruptcy, running costs
of the Scottish COVID-19 public inquiry as well as costs of responding to both
the Scottish and UK inquiries ; funding to support implementation of extension
of Freedom of Information legislation;  ... costs associated with the
functions of the King's Printer for Scotland; expenditure and grant assistance
in relation to public service reform and efficiency. 12,946,416,000 20,000,000
10. For use by the Lord Advocate, through the Crown Office and Procurator
Fiscal Service, on: operational and administrative costs relating to the
investigation and prosecution of crime and the investigation of deaths;
operational and administrative costs in relation to functions in respect of
extradition and mutual legal assistance; costs relating to the United
Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union, including work on the
consequences for continued law enforcement and criminal justice co-operation;
fees paid to Advocate Deputes, temporary procurators fiscal and ad hoc
Advocate Deputes; witness expenses; victim expenses; other costs associated
with Crown prosecutions and cases brought under the Proceeds of Crime Act
2002; for use by the Lord Advocate, through the Civil Recovery Unit, on:
investigations and cases brought under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002; and for
use by the Crown Agent for the office of the King's and Lord Treasurer's
Remembrancer (including special payments made in relation to intestate estates
which fall to the Crown as ultimate heir). 209,493,000 3,000,000 11. Through
the National Records of Scotland, for use by the Scottish Ministers, the
Registrar General  ... for Scotland and the Keeper of the Records of Scotland
on: operational   , administrative and capital investment   costs  ....
32,535,000 9,800,000 12. For use by the Office of the Scottish Charity
Regulator on: operational and administrative costs. 3,300,000 Nil 13. For use
by the Scottish Housing Regulator on: operational and administrative costs.
5,413,000 Nil 14. For use by the Scottish Courts and Tribunals Service on:
operational and administrative costs. 197,503,000 47,000,000 15. For use by
the Scottish Fiscal Commission on: operational and administrative costs.
2,459,000 Nil 16. For use by Revenue Scotland on: operational and
administrative costs. 8,207,000 Nil 17. For use by Food Standards Scotland on:
operational and administrative costs, including research, monitoring and
surveillance and public information and awareness relating to food safety,
standards and improving diet; protecting the other interests of consumers in
relation to food. 23,220,000 5,000,000 18. For use by the Scottish Ministers
on: pensions, allowances, gratuities etc. payable in respect of the teachers'
and national health service pension schemes. 3,760,809,000 3,100,000,000 19.
For use by Registers of Scotland on: operational and administrative costs.
11,126,000 100,000,000 20. For use by Environmental Standards Scotland on:
operational and administrative costs. 3,553,000 Nil 21.  For  use by Consumer
Scotland on: operational and administrative costs 2,400,000 Nil Total amount
of resources 58,308,024,270 8,264,500,000

Direct-funded bodies

(introduced by  section 2 )

Purposes Amount of resources, other than accruing resources (£) Amount of
accruing resources (£) 1. For use by the Scottish Parliamentary Corporate Body
on: operational and administrative costs of the Scottish Parliament; payments
in respect of the Commissioner for Ethical Standards in Public Life in
Scotland, the Standards Commission for Scotland, the Scottish Public Services
Ombudsman, the Scottish Information Commissioner, the Scottish Commission for
Human Rights, the Commissioner for Children and Young People in Scotland, the
Scottish Biometrics Commissioner and the devolved Scottish functions of the
Electoral Commission; any other payments relating to the Scottish Parliament.
132,890,000 1,000,000 2. For use by Audit Scotland on: the exercise of its
functions, including assistance and support to the Auditor General for
Scotland and the Accounts Commission for Scotland; other audit work for public
bodies; payment of pensions to former Local Government Ombudsmen and their
staff. 18,500,000 26,000,000

  Borrowing by statutory bodies

(introduced by  section 3 )

    Enactment Amount (£)   1. Section 25 of the Enterprise and New Towns
(Scotland) Act 1990 (Scottish Enterprise). 10,000,000 2. Section 26 of that
Act (Highlands and Islands Enterprise). 1,000,000 3. Section 48 of the
Environment Act 1995 (Scottish Environment Protection Agency). Nil 4. Section
42B of the Water Industry (Scotland) Act 2002 (Scottish Water). 222,000,000 5.
Section 14 of the Water Services etc. (Scotland) Act 2005 (Scottish Water
Business Stream Holdings Limited and any subsidiary of it within the meaning
of section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006). 100,000,000

