Title: Carer’s Leave Act 2023
Date: 2024-02-01
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/18

## Carer’s Leave Act 2023

      B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Carer’s leave

1

In the Schedule—

1.a

Part 1 creates a statutory entitlement to carer’s leave, and

1.b

Part 2 contains related amendments.

### Power to make consequential provision

2

2.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision that is consequential
on this Act.

2.2

The regulations are to be made by statutory instrument.

2.3

A statutory instrument containing regulations under this section is subject to
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

### Extent, commencement and short title

3

3.1

An amendment or repeal made by the Schedule has the same extent as the
provision to which it relates.

3.2

Otherwise, this Act extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern
Ireland.

3.3

Section 1, section 2 and the Schedule come into force on such day as the
Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument appoint;
and different days may be appointed for different purposes.

3.4

This section comes into force on the day on which this Act is passed.

3.5

This Act may be cited as the Carer’s Leave Act 2023.

  Carer’s leave

Section 1

##### Carer’s leave

1

The Employment Rights Act 1996 is amended as follows.

2

After section 80I insert—

######### Carer’s leave

########## Carer’s leave

2.80J

2.80J.1

The Secretary of State must make regulations entitling an employee to be
absent from work on leave under this section in order to provide or arrange
care for a dependant with a long-term care need.

2.80J.2

For the purposes of subsection  (1) —

2.80J.2.a

a person is a dependant of an employee if they—

2.80J.2.a.i

are a spouse, civil partner, child or parent of the employee,

2.80J.2.a.ii

live in the same household as the employee, otherwise than by reason of being
the employee’s boarder, employee, lodger or tenant, or

2.80J.2.a.iii

reasonably rely on the employee to provide or arrange care, and

2.80J.2.b

a dependant of an employee has a long-term care need if—

2.80J.2.b.i

they have an illness or injury (whether physical or mental) that requires, or
is likely to require, care for more than three months,

2.80J.2.b.ii

they have a disability for the purposes of the Equality Act 2010, or

2.80J.2.b.iii

they require care for a reason connected with their old age.

2.80J.3

The regulations must include provision for determining—

2.80J.3.a

the extent of an employee’s entitlement to leave under this section;

2.80J.3.b

when leave under this section may be taken.

2.80J.4

Provision under subsection  (3)(a)  must secure that where an employee is
entitled to leave under this section the employee is entitled to at least a
week’s leave during any period of 12 months.

2.80J.5

The regulations may make provision about how leave under this section is to be
taken (including by providing for it to be taken non-continuously).

2.80J.6

The regulations may provide that particular activities are, or are not, to be
treated as providing or arranging care for the purposes of this Part.

########## Rights during and after carer’s leave

2.80K

2.80K.1

Regulations under section  80J  must provide—

2.80K.1.a

that an employee who is absent on leave under that section is entitled, for
such purposes and to such extent as the regulations may prescribe, to the
benefit of the terms and conditions of employment which would have applied but
for the absence,

2.80K.1.b

that an employee who is absent on leave under that section is bound, for such
purposes and to such extent as the regulations may prescribe, by obligations
arising under those terms and conditions (except in so far as they are
inconsistent with subsection  (1)  of that section), and

2.80K.1.c

that an employee who is absent on leave under that section is entitled to
return from leave to a job of a kind prescribed by regulations, subject to
section  80L .

2.80K.2

Regulations under section  80J  may provide that where provision made by or
under Part 8 provides for a reference to absence on leave under a section of
that Part to include a reference to a continuous period of absence
attributable—

2.80K.2.a

partly to leave under that section of Part 8, and

2.80K.2.b

partly to leave under another section of that Part,

absence attributable to leave under section  80J  is to be ignored in any
determination of the continuity or duration of such a period.

2.80K.3

In subsection  (1)(a) , “terms and conditions of employment”—

2.80K.3.a

includes matters connected with an employee’s employment whether or not they
arise under the contract of employment, but

2.80K.3.b

does not include terms and conditions about remuneration.

2.80K.4

Regulations under section  80J  may specify matters which are, or are not, to
be treated as remuneration for the purposes of this section.

2.80K.5

Regulations under section  80J  may make provision, in relation to the right
to return mentioned in subsection  (1)(c) , about—

2.80K.5.a

seniority, pension rights and similar rights;

2.80K.5.b

terms and conditions of employment on return.

########## Special cases

2.80L

2.80L.1

Regulations under section  80J  may make provision about—

2.80L.1.a

redundancy during or after a period of leave under that section;

2.80L.1.b

dismissal (other than by reason of redundancy) during a period of leave under
that section.

2.80L.2

Provision by virtue of subsection  (1)  may include provision for the
consequences of failure to comply with the regulations (which may include
provision for a dismissal to be treated as unfair for the purposes of Part
10).

########## Part 8B: supplemental

2.80M

2.80M.1

Regulations under section  80J  may—

2.80M.1.a

make provision about notices to be given and other procedures to be followed
by employees and employers;

2.80M.1.b

make provision requiring employers or employees to keep records;

2.80M.1.c

make provision for the consequences of failure to give notices, to keep
records or to comply with other procedural requirements;

2.80M.1.d

make provision for the consequences of failure to act in accordance with a
notice given by virtue of paragraph  (a) ;

2.80M.1.e

make provision about the postponement by an employer of a period of leave
under section  80J ;

2.80M.1.f

make special provision for cases where an employee has a right which
corresponds to a right under section  80J  and which arises under the person’s
contract of employment or otherwise;

2.80M.1.g

make provision modifying the effect of Chapter 2 of Part 14 (calculation of a
week’s pay) in relation to an employee who is or has been absent from work on
leave under section  80J ;

2.80M.1.h

make provision applying, modifying or excluding an enactment, in such
circumstances as may be specified and subject to any conditions which may be
specified, in relation to a person entitled to take leave under section  80J ;

2.80M.1.i

make different provision for different cases or circumstances;

2.80M.1.j

make consequential provision.

2.80M.2

Provision under subsection  (1)(a)  may, in particular, provide that an
employer cannot require an employee to supply evidence in relation to a
request for leave under section  80J  before granting that leave.

2.80M.3

Provision under subsection  (1)(i)  may, in particular, provide for the
meaning of “a week’s leave” in section  80J   (4)  to be determined by
reference to the number of days normally worked, or required to be worked, by
an employee in a particular period.

2.80M.4

The cases or circumstances mentioned in subsection  (1)(i)  include an
employee providing or arranging care for more than one dependant during any
period of 12 months; and regulations may, in particular, make special
provision regarding the applicability and extent of the entitlement to leave
in such circumstances.

########## Complaint to employment tribunal

2.80N

2.80N.1

An employee may complain to an employment tribunal that their employer—

2.80N.1.a

has unreasonably postponed a period of carer’s leave, or

2.80N.1.b

has prevented or attempted to prevent the employee from taking carer’s leave.

2.80N.2

The tribunal must not consider the complaint unless it is made—

2.80N.2.a

before the end of the period of three months beginning with the date (or last
date) of the matter complained of, or

2.80N.2.b

within such further period as the tribunal considers reasonable in a case
where it is satisfied that it was not reasonably practicable for the complaint
to be made before the end of that period of three months.

2.80N.3

Section 207B (extension of time limits to facilitate conciliation before
institution of proceedings) applies for the purposes of subsection  (2)(a) .

2.80N.4

The tribunal, if satisfied that an employer has acted as described in
subsection  (1)(a)  or  (b) —

2.80N.4.a

must make a declaration to that effect, and

2.80N.4.b

may award compensation to be paid by the employer to the employee.

2.80N.5

The amount of any compensation must be the amount the tribunal considers just
and equitable in all the circumstances, including—

2.80N.5.a

the employer’s behaviour, and

2.80N.5.b

any consequential loss sustained by the employee.

3

In section 236(3) (orders and regulations subject to affirmative procedure),
after “80G,” insert  “80J,” .

##### Further amendments to do with carer’s leave

###### Employment Rights Act 1996

4

The Employment Rights Act 1996 is amended as follows.

5

In section 47C (leave for family and domestic reasons), in subsection (2),
after paragraph (bb) insert—

5.bc

carer’s leave,

.

6

In section 88 (liability of employer to pay employee during period of notice:
employments with normal working hours), in subsection (1)(c), after “shared
parental leave,” insert  “carer’s leave,” .

7

In section 89 (effect of notice of termination: employments without normal
working hours), in subsection (3)(b), after “shared parental leave,” insert
“carer’s leave,” .

8

In section 99 (leave for family reasons), in subsection (3), after paragraph
(bb) insert—

8.bc

carer’s leave,

.

9

In section 191 (Crown employment), in subsection (2)(c), for “8A,” substitute
“8B,” .

10

In section 192 (armed forces), in subsection (2), after paragraph (c) insert—

10.ca

Part 8B,

.

11

In section 194 (House of Lords staff), in subsection (2)(e), for “6A, 7, 8 and
8A” substitute  “6A to 8B” .

12

In section 195 (House of Commons staff), in subsection (2)(e), for “6A, 7, 8
and 8A” substitute  “6A to 8B” .

13

In section 199 (mariners)—

13.a

in subsection (2), for “6A, 7, 8 and 8A” substitute  “6A to 8B” ;

13.b

in subsection (8)(d), for “6A, 7, 8 and 8A” substitute  “6A to 8B” .

14

In section 202 (national security), in subsection (2), after paragraph (e)
insert—

14.ea

Part 8B,

.

15

In section 205 (remedy for infringement of certain rights), in subsection (1),
after “VIII,” insert  “Part 8B,” .

16

In section 206 (institution or continuance of tribunal proceedings), in
subsection (2), after paragraph (e) insert—

16.ea

Part 8B,

.

17

In section 235 (definitions), in subsection (1)—

17.a

at the appropriate place insert—

      “ carer’s leave ” means leave under section 80J,

;

17.b

in the definition of “week”, in paragraph (b), before “and 86” insert  “, 80J”
.

###### Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003

18

In Schedule 5 to the Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 (enterprise
management incentives), in paragraph 26(3)(b), after “shared parental leave,”
insert  “carer’s leave,” .

