Title: Co-operatives, Mutuals and Friendly Societies Act 2023
Date: 2023-08-09
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/23

## Co-operatives, Mutuals and Friendly Societies Act 2023

      B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Power to restrict use of assets of relevant mutual entities

1

1.1

The Treasury may by regulations made by statutory instrument make provision
for enabling a relevant mutual entity to ensure that—

1.1.a

assets of the entity of a prescribed kind,

1.1.b

assets of the entity specified by it in accordance with the regulations, or

1.1.c

all of the entity's assets,

cannot be used or dealt with except in a case mentioned in  subsection (2) .

1.2

The cases are—

1.2.a

where the use or dealing is, directly or indirectly, for a purpose for which
the activities of the mutual entity are carried on and is of a prescribed
kind, or

1.2.b

where the circumstances are such as may be prescribed.

1.3

A mutual entity is “relevant” if it is of a prescribed description.

1.4

In  this section  “ dedicated assets ” means assets in respect of which
regulations under this section have been made.

1.5

Regulations under this section may, in particular—

1.5.a

provide for the procedure by which a relevant mutual entity may impose, or
otherwise secure, a restriction on how dedicated assets are used or dealt
with;

1.5.b

provide for such of a relevant mutual entity's rules as are of a prescribed
kind to be unalterable, or for them to be alterable only in prescribed
circumstances or in circumstances specified in rules of a prescribed kind;

1.5.c

provide for the case mentioned in subsection (2)(a) to be subject to such
exceptions as may be prescribed;

1.5.d

provide that, in any circumstances prescribed under  subsection (2) (b) ,
dedicated assets must be dealt with in a prescribed way;

1.5.e

make provision for ensuring that a person to whom dedicated assets are
transferred in prescribed circumstances cannot use or deal with those assets
except in a case mentioned in  subsection (2) ;

1.5.f

provide for members of a mutual entity who lose property rights as a result of
regulations under this section to be compensated for that loss (whether by
payment of a prescribed amount or of an amount determined in a prescribed way
or otherwise), subject to such exceptions as may be prescribed;

1.5.g

provide for the enforcement of restrictions imposed as a result of regulations
under this section;

1.5.h

make provision for the carrying out of investigations by persons appointed by
a prescribed person;

1.5.i

confer power on a prescribed person to require persons of a prescribed
description to provide the prescribed person with information in order to
enable or assist that person to perform any of the person's functions under
the regulations;

1.5.j

provide for restrictions on the use and disclosure of information obtained by
any person in the performance of any function under the regulations.

1.6

Regulations under  this section  may—

1.6.a

impose criminal liability;

1.6.b

confer functions on a prescribed person;

1.6.c

confer jurisdiction on any court;

1.6.d

authorise a prescribed person to make rules, binding on persons of a
prescribed description, for the purpose of enabling or assisting the
prescribed person to perform any of the person's functions under the
regulations;

1.6.e

make provision as to the making, publication and enforcement of such rules;

1.6.f

provide for a prescribed person to charge fees sufficient to meet the costs of
performing any of the person's functions under the regulations;

1.6.g

modify, exclude or apply (with or without modifications) any provision made by
or under an enactment or any rule of law;

1.6.h

contain such incidental, consequential and supplementary provision as the
Treasury consider appropriate;

1.6.i

make different provision for different cases.

1.7

Regulations under  this section  may not create any new criminal offence
punishable with imprisonment for more than 7 years.

1.8

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  this section  may not be
made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by a
resolution of each House of Parliament.

1.9

In  this section —

      “ mutual entity ” means—         a co-operative society,           a
friendly society with the meaning of the Friendly Societies Act 1992 (see
section 116 of that Act), or           a body corporate that carries on a
business of mutual insurance;                 “ co-operative society ” means—
a society registered as a co-operative society under the Co-operative and
Community Benefit Societies Act 2014, or           a pre-commencement society
(within the meaning of that Act) that meets the condition in section
2(2)(a)(i) of that Act;                 “ enactment ” includes an enactment
comprised in an Act of the Scottish Parliament;           “ prescribed ” means
prescribed by regulations under  this section .

### Short title

2

This Act may be cited as the Co-operatives, Mutuals and Friendly Societies Act
2023.

