Title: Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023
Date: 2024-11-11
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/56

## Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023

B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice
and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Companies etc

#### The registrar of companies

##### The registrar’s objectives

1

1.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

1.2

In section 1059A (scheme of Part 35), in subsection (2), at the appropriate
place insert—

section  1081A  (registrar’s objectives to promote integrity of registers
etc),

.

1.3

After section 1081 insert—

########### Registrar’s objectives to promote integrity of registers etc

1.3.1081A

1.3.1081A.1

The registrar must, in performing the registrar’s functions, seek to promote
the following objectives.

Objective 1 Objective 1 is to ensure that any person who is required to
deliver a document to the registrar does so (and that the requirements for
proper delivery are complied with). Objective 2 Objective 2 is to ensure that
information contained in the register is accurate and that the register
contains everything it ought to contain. Objective 3 Objective 3 is to ensure
that records kept by the registrar do not create a false or misleading
impression to members of the public. Objective 4 Objective 4 is to prevent
companies and others from— carrying out unlawful activities, or facilitating
the carrying out by others of unlawful activities.

1.3.1081A.2

In Objective 2 the reference to “ the register ” includes any records kept by
the registrar under any enactment.

#### Company formation

##### Statement as to lawful purposes

2

In section 9 of the Companies Act 2006 (registration documents), in subsection
(2)—

2.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (c);

2.b

at the end of paragraph (d) insert

, and

2.b.e

that the subscribers wish to form the company for lawful purposes.

##### Information about subscribers

3

3.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

3.2

In section 9 (registration documents)—

3.2.a

after subsection (3) insert—

3.2.a.3A

The application must contain—

3.2.a.3A.a

a statement of the required information about each of the subscribers to the
memorandum of association (see section  9A ),

3.2.a.3A.b

a statement that none of the subscribers to the memorandum of association is
disqualified under the directors disqualification legislation (see section
159A(2)),

3.2.a.3A.c

if any of them would be so disqualified but for the permission of a court to
act, a statement to that effect, in respect of each of them, specifying—

3.2.a.3A.c.i

the subscriber’s name,

3.2.a.3A.c.ii

the court by which permission was given, and

3.2.a.3A.c.iii

the date on which permission was given, and

3.2.a.3A.d

if any of them would be disqualified under the directors disqualification
legislation by virtue of section 11A of the Company Directors Disqualification
Act 1986 or Article 15A of the Company Directors Disqualification (Northern
Ireland) Order 2002 (designated persons under sanctions legislation) but for
the authority of a licence of the kind mentioned in that section or Article, a
statement to that effect, in respect of each of them, specifying—

3.2.a.3A.d.i

the subscriber’s name, and

3.2.a.3A.d.ii

the date on which it was issued and by whom it was issued.

;

3.2.b

after subsection (6) insert—

3.2.b.7

In subsection  (3A)(c)  “ permission of a court to act ” means permission of a
court under a provision mentioned in column 2 of the table in section 159A(2).

3.3

After section 9 insert—

########### Required information about the subscribers

3.3.9A

3.3.9A.1

The required information about a subscriber who is an individual is—

3.3.9A.1.a

name;

3.3.9A.1.b

a service address.

3.3.9A.2

The required information about a subscriber that is a body corporate, or a
firm that is a legal person under the law by which it is governed, is—

3.3.9A.2.a

corporate or firm name;

3.3.9A.2.b

a service address.

3.3.9A.3

In subsection  (1)  “ name ” means the individual’s forename and surname.

3.3.9A.4

Where a subscriber is a peer or an individual usually known by a title, that
title may be stated in the application for the registration of the company
instead of the subscriber’s forename and surname.

3.3.9A.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

3.3.9A.5.a

amend this section so as to change the required information about a
subscriber;

3.3.9A.5.b

repeal subsection  (4) .

3.3.9A.6

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

3.4

In section 10 (statement of capital and initial shareholdings), omit
subsection (3).

3.5

In section 11 (statement of guarantee), omit subsection (2).

##### Proposed officers: identity verification

4

4.1

Section 12 of the Companies Act 2006 (statement of proposed officers) is
amended as follows.

4.2

After subsection (2) insert—

4.2.2A

The statement must, in the case of each individual named as a director,
confirm that the individual’s identity is verified (see section 1110A).

4.3

The provision that may be made under section 220 (1)  in connection with the
coming into force of this section includes—

4.3.a

provision requiring a company incorporated in pursuance of an application
delivered before the coming into force of this section to deliver to the
registrar, at the same time as a confirmation statement, a statement, in
respect of any individual who became a director of the company on its
incorporation, confirming that the individual’s identity is verified (within
the meaning of section 1110A of the Companies Act 2006), and

4.3.b

provision for section 853A(1)(b)(i) of the Companies Act 2006 (as substituted
by section 59 of this Act) to have effect as if it included a reference to any
duty imposed by virtue of paragraph  (a) .

4.4

In subsection  (3) —

“ confirmation statement ” has the meaning given by section 853A of the
Companies Act 2006; “ the registrar ” has the same meaning as in the Companies
Acts (see section 1060 of the Companies Act 2006).

##### Proposed officers: disqualification

5

5.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows

5.2

In section 12 (statement of proposed officers), at the end insert—

5.2.4

The statement must also include a statement by the subscribers to the
memorandum of association that no one named as a director is—

5.2.4.a

disqualified under the directors disqualification legislation (see section
159A(2)), or

5.2.4.b

otherwise ineligible by virtue of any enactment for appointment as a director.

5.2.5

Where any of the persons named as directors would be disqualified under the
directors disqualification legislation but for the permission of a court to
act, the statement must also include a statement to that effect, in respect of
each of them, specifying—

5.2.5.a

the person’s name,

5.2.5.b

the court by which permission was given, and

5.2.5.c

the date on which permission was given.

5.2.6

In subsection  (5)  “ permission of a court to act ” means permission of a
court under a provision mentioned in column 2 of the table in section 159A(2).

5.2.7

Where any of the persons named as directors would be disqualified under the
directors disqualification legislation by virtue of section 11A of the Company
Directors Disqualification Act 1986 or Article 15A of the Company Directors
Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order 2002 (designated persons under
sanctions legislation) but for the authority of a licence of the kind
mentioned in that section or Article, the statement must also include a
statement to that effect, in respect of each of them, specifying—

5.2.7.a

the person’s name, and

5.2.7.b

the date on which the licence was issued and by whom it was issued.

5.3

In section 16 (effect of registration), in subsection (6), at the end insert
“unless ineligible for appointment to that office by virtue of any enactment”
.

##### Persons with initial significant control: disqualification

6

6.1

Section 12A of the Companies Act 2006 (statement of initial significant
control) is amended as follows.

6.2

After subsection (1) insert—

6.2.1A

If there is anyone who will be a registrable person, or a registrable relevant
legal entity, in relation to the company on incorporation, the statement must
also include—

6.2.1A.a

a statement that none of them is disqualified under the directors
disqualification legislation (see section 159A(2)),

6.2.1A.b

if any of them would be so disqualified but for the permission of a court to
act, a statement to that effect, in respect of each of them, specifying—

6.2.1A.b.i

the person’s name,

6.2.1A.b.ii

the court by which permission was given,

6.2.1A.b.iii

the date on which permission was given, and

6.2.1A.c

if any of them would be so disqualified by virtue of section 11A of the
Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986 or Article 15A of the Company
Directors Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order 2002 (designated persons
under sanctions legislation) but for the authority of a licence of the kind
mentioned in that section or Article, a statement to that effect, in respect
of each of them, specifying—

6.2.1A.c.i

the person’s name, and

6.2.1A.c.ii

the date on which the licence was issued and by whom it was issued.

6.3

For subsection (4) substitute—

6.3.4

In this section—

“ permission of a court to act ” means permission of a court under a provision
mentioned in column 2 of the table in section 159A(2); “ registrable person ”
has the meaning given by section 790C (see also section 790J); “ registrable
relevant legal entity ” has the meaning given by section 790C (see also
section 790J); “ required particulars ” has the meaning given by section 790K.

##### Persons with initial significant control: identity verification

7

After section 12A of the Companies Act 2006 insert—

######### Option to provide ID verification information about PSCs

7.12B

7.12B.1

This section applies if an application for the registration of a company
contains a statement of initial significant control that identifies a person
who will be a registrable person, or a registrable relevant legal entity, in
relation to the company on its incorporation.

7.12B.2

In relation to any person who will be a registrable person, the statement may
include a statement that the person’s identity is verified (see section
1110A).

7.12B.3

In relation to any person who will be a registrable relevant legal entity, the
statement may include a statement that—

7.12B.3.a

specifies the name of one of its relevant officers (within the meaning given
by section  790LO (6) ) who is an individual and whose identity is verified,
and

7.12B.3.b

confirms that the individual’s identity is verified.

7.12B.4

If a statement under subsection  (3)  is included in relation to a person who
will be a registrable relevant legal entity, the application for registration
of the company must be accompanied by a statement by the individual confirming
that the individual is a relevant officer of that entity.

7.12B.5

To find out what happens if the option in subsection  (2)  or  (3)  is not
exercised, see sections  790LM  and  790LO .

7.12B.6

In this section—

“ registrable person ” has the meaning given by section 790C, except that it
does not include a person mentioned in section 790C(12)(a) to (d) (see also
section 790J); “ registrable relevant legal entity ” has the meaning given by
section 790C (see also section 790J).

#### Company names

##### Names for criminal purposes

8

8.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

8.2

After section 53 insert—

########### Names for criminal purposes

8.2.53A

A company must not be registered under this Act by a name if, in the opinion
of the Secretary of State, the registration of the company by that name is
intended to facilitate—

8.2.53A.a

the commission of an offence involving dishonesty or deception, or

8.2.53A.b

the carrying out of conduct that, if carried out in any part of the United
Kingdom, would amount to such an offence.

8.3

In section 1047 (registered name of overseas company), in subsection (4),
after paragraph (a) insert—

8.3.aa

section  53A  (names for criminal purposes);

.

##### Names suggesting connection with foreign governments etc

9

9.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

9.2

After section 56 insert—

########### Names suggesting connection with foreign governments etc

9.2.56A

A company must not be registered under this Act by a name that, in the opinion
of the Secretary of State, would be likely to give the false impression that
the company is connected with—

9.2.56A.a

a foreign government or an agency or authority of a foreign government, or

9.2.56A.b

an international organisation whose members include two or more countries or
territories (or their governments).

9.3

In section 1047 (registered name of overseas company), in subsection (4),
after paragraph (b) insert—

9.3.bza

section  56A  (names suggesting connection with foreign governments etc);

.

##### Names containing computer code

10

10.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

10.2

After section 57 insert—

########### Computer code

############ Names containing computer code

10.2.57A

A company must not be registered under this Act by a name that, in the opinion
of the Secretary of State, consists of or includes computer code.

10.3

In section 1047 (registered name of overseas company), in subsection (4),
after paragraph (ba) insert—

10.3.bb

section  57A  (names containing computer code);

.

##### Prohibition on re-registering name following direction

11

11.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

11.2

After section  57A  (inserted by section 10 of this Act) insert—

########### Prohibitions where a company has been required to change a name

############ Prohibition on re-registering name following direction

11.2.57B

11.2.57B.1

Where a company’s name has at any time been changed following a direction
under section 67, 75, 76, 76A or  76B , or an order under section 73, the
company must not subsequently be registered under this Act by the original
name or a name that is similar to it.

11.2.57B.2

But subsection  (1)  does not prevent the registration of the company by any
name approved by the Secretary of State.

11.2.57B.3

In subsection  (1) —

11.2.57B.3.a

the reference to the name of a company being changed following a direction
under a particular section includes a case where a new name is determined for
the company under section  76D  because of its failure to comply with the
direction;

11.2.57B.3.b

the reference to the name of a company being changed following an order under
section 73 includes a case where a new name is determined for the company
under section 73(4) because of its failure to comply with an order.

11.3

In section 1047 (registered name of overseas company), in subsection (4),
after paragraph  (bb)  (inserted by section 10 of this Act) insert—

11.3.bc

section  57B  (restriction on re-registering name following direction).

##### Prohibition on using name that another company has been directed to change

12

12.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

12.2

After section  57B  (inserted by section 11 of this Act) insert—

########### Name that another company has been directed to change

12.2.57C

12.2.57C.1

Where a company has at any time been directed under section 67, 75, 76, 76A or
76B , or ordered under section 73, to change its name, no other company may be
registered under this Act by that name or a name that is similar if—

12.2.57C.1.a

that company is an existing company and there is a person who has, or has had,
a relevant relationship with both companies, or

12.2.57C.1.b

an application has been made for the registration of that company and, if it
is registered, there will on its incorporation be a person who has, or has
had, a relevant relationship with both companies.

12.2.57C.2

But subsection  (1)  does not prevent the registration of the company by any
name approved by the Secretary of State.

12.2.57C.3

For the purposes of subsection  (1)  it is irrelevant whether the person has,
or has had, a relevant relationship with both companies at the same time.

12.2.57C.4

For the purposes of this section a person has a “relevant relationship” with a
company if the person is—

12.2.57C.4.a

an officer, or

12.2.57C.4.b

a member or former member.

12.2.57C.5

In subsection  (1) —

12.2.57C.5.a

the reference to the name of a company being changed following a direction
under a particular section includes a case where a new name is determined for
the company under section  76D  because of its failure to comply with the
direction;

12.2.57C.5.b

the reference to the name of a company being changed following an order under
section 73 includes a case where a new name is determined for the company
under section 73(4) because of its failure to comply with an order.

12.3

In section 1047 (registered name of overseas company), in subsection (4),
after paragraph  (bc)  (inserted by section 11 of this Act) insert—

12.3.bd

section  57C  (names that another company has been directed to change);

.

##### Directions to change name: period for compliance

13

13.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows

13.2

In section 64 (power to direct change of name in case of company ceasing to be
entitled to exemption), after subsection (2) insert—

13.2.2A

The period must be a period of at least 28 days beginning with the date of the
direction.

13.2.2B

The Secretary of State may by further direction in writing extend the period.

Any such direction must be given before the end of the period for the time
being specified.

13.3

In section 68 (direction to change name in case of similarity to existing
name: supplementary provisions), after subsection (2) insert—

13.3.2A

The period must be a period of at least 28 days beginning with the date of the
direction.

13.4

In section 75 (provision of misleading information etc), after subsection (2)
insert—

13.4.2A

The period must be at least 28 days beginning with the date of the direction.

13.5

In section 76 (misleading indication of activities)—

13.5.a

for subsections (2) and (3) substitute—

13.5.a.2

The direction must be in writing and must specify the period within which the
company is to change its name.

13.5.a.3

The period must be a period of at least 28 days beginning with the date of the
direction.

13.5.a.3A

The Secretary of State may by further direction in writing extend the period.

Any such direction must be given before the end of the period for the time
being specified.

;

13.5.b

for subsection (4) substitute—

13.5.b.4

A company may apply to the court to set aside a direction under subsection
(1).

13.5.b.4A

Any application under subsection  (4)  must be made within the period of three
weeks beginning with the date of the direction.

13.5.c

after subsection (5) insert—

13.5.c.5A

If a company applies to the court under subsection (4) to set aside a
direction, it is not required to comply with the direction while the
proceedings are ongoing.

;

13.5.d

in subsection (6), for “this section” substitute  “subsection (1)” .

##### Requirements to change name: removal of old name from public inspection

14

14.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

14.2

In section 64 (company ceasing to be entitled to exemption in relation to use
of “limited” etc), after subsection (6) insert—

14.2.6A

Where a direction is given under subsection (1), the registrar may omit from
the material on the register that is available for public inspection any
mention of the name to which the direction relates.

14.3

In section 67 (power to direct change of name in case of similarity to
existing name), after subsection (1) insert—

14.3.1A

Where a direction is given under subsection (1), the registrar may omit from
the material on the register that is available for public inspection any
mention of the name to which the direction relates (so far as it relates to
the company to which the direction is given).

14.4

In section 73 (order requiring name to be changed), after subsection (6)
insert—

14.4.7

Where an order is made under subsection (1), the registrar may omit from the
material on the register that is available for public inspection any mention
of the name to which the order relates.

14.5

In section 75 (provision of misleading information), after subsection (4)
insert—

14.5.4A

Where a direction is given under subsection (1), the registrar may omit from
the material on the register that is available for public inspection any
mention of the name to which the direction relates.

14.6

In section 76 (misleading indication of activities), after subsection (5A)
(inserted by section 13 of this Act) insert—

14.6.5B

Where a direction is given under subsection (1), the registrar may omit from
the material on the register that is available for public inspection any
mention of the name to which the direction relates.

##### Objections to company’s registered name

15

15.1

Section 69 of the Companies Act 2006 (objection to company’s registered name)
is amended as follows.

15.2

In subsection (1)(b)—

15.2.a

after “in the United Kingdom” insert  “or elsewhere” ;

15.2.b

after “mislead” insert  “members of the public in the United Kingdom or
elsewhere” .

15.3

In subsection (3), for the second sentence substitute  “Any of the following
may be joined as respondents—

15.3.a

any member or person who was a member at the time at which the name was
registered;

15.3.b

any director or person who was a director at the time at which the name was
registered.”

15.4

In subsection (4), omit paragraph (b) (and the “or” at the end of that
paragraph).

15.5

In subsection (5), omit “, (b)”.

##### Misleading indication of activities

16

In section 76 of the Companies Act 2006 (misleading indication of activities),
in subsection (1), for “be likely to cause harm to the public” substitute
“pose a risk of harm to the public in the United Kingdom or elsewhere” .

##### Direction to change name used for criminal purposes

17

17.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

17.2

Before section 75 insert—

Provision of misleading information

.

17.3

Before section 76 insert—

Misleading indication of activities and names used for criminal purposes

.

17.4

After section 76 insert—

########### Power to direct change of name used for criminal purposes

17.4.76A

17.4.76A.1

The Secretary of State may direct a company to change its name if it appears
to the Secretary of State that the name has been used, or is intended to be
used, by the company to facilitate—

17.4.76A.1.a

the commission of an offence involving dishonesty or deception, or

17.4.76A.1.b

the carrying out of conduct that, if carried out in any part of the United
Kingdom, would amount to such an offence.

17.4.76A.2

The direction must be in writing and must specify the period within which the
company is to change its name.

17.4.76A.3

The period must be a period of at least 28 days beginning with the date of the
direction.

17.4.76A.4

The Secretary of State may by further direction in writing extend the period.

Any such direction must be given before the end of the period for the time
being specified.

17.4.76A.5

A company may apply to the court to set aside a direction under subsection
(1) .

17.4.76A.6

Any application under subsection  (5)  must be made within the period of three
weeks beginning with the date of the direction.

17.4.76A.7

On an application under subsection  (5)  the court may set the direction aside
or confirm it.

17.4.76A.8

If on an application under subsection  (5)  the direction is confirmed, the
court must specify the period within which the direction is to be complied
with.

17.4.76A.9

Where a direction is given under subsection  (1) , the registrar may omit from
the material on the register that is available for public inspection any
mention of the name to which the direction relates.

17.4.76A.10

If a company applies to the court under subsection  (5)  to set aside a
direction, the company is not required to comply with the direction while the
proceedings are ongoing.

17.4.76A.11

If a company fails to comply with a direction under subsection  (1) , an
offence is committed by—

17.4.76A.11.a

the company, and

17.4.76A.11.b

every officer of the company who is in default.

For this purpose a shadow director is treated as an officer of the company.

17.4.76A.12

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale and, for
continued contravention, a daily default fine not exceeding one-tenth of level
3 on the standard scale.

17.5

In section 1047 (registered name of overseas company), in subsection (4),
after paragraph (f) insert—

17.5.g

section  76A  (power to direct change of name used for criminal purposes);

.

##### Direction to change name wrongly registered

18

18.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

18.2

After section  76A  (inserted by section 17 of this Act) insert—

########### Direction to change name wrongly registered

############ Direction to change name wrongly registered

18.2.76B

18.2.76B.1

The Secretary of State may direct a company to change its name if—

18.2.76B.1.a

it appears to the Secretary of State that the company’s registration by that
name was in contravention of any requirement imposed by this Part, or

18.2.76B.1.b

the Secretary of State did not, at the time at which the name was registered,
form the opinion mentioned in section 53,  56A  or  57A , but had proper
grounds for doing so.

18.2.76B.2

The direction must be in writing and must specify the period within which the
company is to change its name.

18.2.76B.3

The period must be a period of at least 28 days beginning with the date of the
direction.

18.2.76B.4

The Secretary of State may by further direction in writing extend the period.

Any such direction must be given before the end of the period for the time
being specified.

18.2.76B.5

A company may apply to the court to set aside a direction under subsection
(1) .

18.2.76B.6

Any application under subsection  (5)  must be made within the period of three
weeks beginning with the date of the direction.

18.2.76B.7

On an application under subsection  (5)  the court may set the direction aside
or confirm it.

18.2.76B.8

If on an application under subsection  (5)  the direction is confirmed, the
court must specify the period within which the direction is to be complied
with.

18.2.76B.9

Where a direction is given under subsection  (1) , the registrar may omit from
the material on the register that is available for public inspection any
mention of the name to which the direction relates.

18.2.76B.10

If a company applies to the court under subsection  (5)  to set aside a
direction, the company is not required to comply with the direction while the
proceedings are ongoing.

18.2.76B.11

If a company fails to comply with a direction under subsection  (1) , an
offence is committed by—

18.2.76B.11.a

the company, and

18.2.76B.11.b

every officer of the company who is in default.

For this purpose a shadow director is treated as an officer of the company.

18.2.76B.12

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale and, for
continued contravention, a daily default fine not exceeding one-tenth of level
3 on the standard scale.

18.3

In section 1047 (registered name of overseas company), in subsection (4),
after paragraph (g) (inserted by section 17 of this Act) insert—

18.3.h

section  76B  (direction to change name wrongly registered);

.

##### Registrar’s power to change names containing computer code

19

19.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows

19.2

In the heading of Chapter 4 of Part 5, after “Secretary of State” insert  “and
the registrar” .

19.3

After section  76B  (inserted by section 18 of this Act) insert—

########### Registrar’s powers to change names

############ Registrar’s power to change name containing computer code

19.3.76C

19.3.76C.1

Where, in the opinion of the registrar, a company’s registered name consists
of or includes computer code, the registrar may—

19.3.76C.1.a

determine a new name for the company, and

19.3.76C.1.b

remove from the register any reference to the company’s old name.

19.3.76C.2

If the registrar determines a new name for a company under this section, the
registrar must—

19.3.76C.2.a

give the company notice of the determination, and

19.3.76C.2.b

place a note of the determination in the register.

19.3.76C.3

Where a company is given a direction under section  76B  to change its name—

19.3.76C.3.a

that does not affect the registrar’s power to act under subsection  (1) , but

19.3.76C.3.b

if the registrar does so, the direction lapses.

19.4

In section 1081 (annotation of the register), in subsection (6), after
“subsection (2)” insert  “or of any other enactment” .

##### Registrar’s power to change company’s name for breach of direction

20

After section  76C  of the Companies Act 2006 (inserted by section 19 of this
Act) insert—

######### Registrar’s power to change name for failure to comply with direction

20.76D

20.76D.1

Where a company fails to comply with a direction to change its name, the
registrar may determine a new name for the company.

20.76D.2

The reference in subsection  (1)  to a direction to change a company’s name is
to a direction under section 64, 67, 75, 76,  76A  or  76B .

20.76D.3

If the registrar determines a new name for a company under this section, the
registrar must—

20.76D.3.a

give the company notice of the determination, and

20.76D.3.b

place a note of the determination in the register.

##### Sections 19 and 20: consequential amendments

21

21.1

In section 80 (change of name: registration and issue of new certificate of
incorporation), for subsections (1) and (2) substitute—

21.1.1

This section applies where—

21.1.1.a

the registrar receives notice of a change of a company’s name and is
satisfied—

21.1.1.a.i

that the new name complies with the requirements of this Part, and

21.1.1.a.ii

that the requirements of the Companies Acts, and any relevant requirements of
the company’s articles, with respect to a change of name are complied with, or

21.1.1.b

the registrar determines a new name for a company under section  76C  or  76D
.

21.1.2

The registrar must enter the new name on the register in place of the former
name.

21.2

In section 1047 (registered name of overseas company), in subsection (4),
after paragraph  (h)  (inserted by section 18 of this Act) insert—

21.2.i

section  76C  (registrar’s power to change name containing computer code);

21.2.j

section  76D  (registrar’s power to change name for failure to comply with
direction).

##### Company names: exceptions based on national security etc

22

After section  76D  of the Companies Act 2006 (inserted by section 20 of this
Act) insert—

######### Exceptions

########## Exceptions based on national security etc

22.76E

22.76E.1

Nothing in this Part prevents the registration of a company under this Act by
a name if the Secretary of State is satisfied that the registration of the
company by that name is necessary—

22.76E.1.a

in the interests of national security, or

22.76E.1.b

for the purposes of preventing or detecting serious crime.

22.76E.2

For the purposes of subsection  (1)(b) —

22.76E.2.a

“ crime ” means conduct which—

22.76E.2.a.i

constitutes a criminal offence, or

22.76E.2.a.ii

is, or corresponds to, any conduct which, if it all took place in any one part
of the United Kingdom, would constitute a criminal offence, and

22.76E.2.b

crime is “serious” if—

22.76E.2.b.i

the offence which is or would be constituted by the conduct is an offence for
which the maximum sentence (in any part of the United Kingdom) is imprisonment
for 3 years or more, or

22.76E.2.b.ii

the conduct involves the use of violence, results in substantial financial
gain or is conduct by a large number of persons in pursuit of a common
purpose.

#### Business names

##### Use of name suggesting connection with foreign governments etc

23

In the Companies Act 2006, after section 1196 insert—

######### Names suggesting connection with foreign governments etc

23.1196A

23.1196A.1

A person must not carry on business in the United Kingdom under a name that
would be likely to give the false impression that the business is connected
with—

23.1196A.1.a

a foreign government or an agency or authority of a foreign government, or

23.1196A.1.b

an international organisation whose members include two or more countries or
territories (or their governments).

23.1196A.2

A person who contravenes this section commits an offence.

23.1196A.3

Where an offence under this section is committed by a body corporate, an
offence is also committed by every officer of the body who is in default.

23.1196A.4

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale and, for
continued contravention, a daily default fine not exceeding one-tenth of level
3 on the standard scale.

##### Use of name giving misleading indication of activities

24

In section 1198 of the Companies Act 2006 (misleading indication of
activities), in subsection (1), for “be likely to cause harm to the public”
substitute  “pose a risk of harm to the public in the United Kingdom or
elsewhere” .

##### Use of name that a company has been required to change

25

25.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

25.2

In section 1192 (application of this Chapter), at the beginning of subsection
(1) insert  “Subject to any express provision to the contrary,” .

25.3

After section 1198 insert—

########### Restrictions where a company has been required to change a name

############ Name that a company has been required to change

25.3.1198A

25.3.1198A.1

Where a relevant direction has been given to a company to change its name, or
it has been ordered under section 73 to change its name, the company must not
carry on business in the United Kingdom under the name that it was directed or
ordered to change, except as mentioned in subsection  (2) .

25.3.1198A.2

Subsection  (1)  does not prevent the use by a company of a name if—

25.3.1198A.2.a

the period for complying with the direction or order has not yet expired,

25.3.1198A.2.b

the company complied with the direction or order and has since become
registered with the name again following approval given under section  57B ,
or

25.3.1198A.2.c

the direction was given, or the order was made, before section 25 of the
Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 came fully into force.

25.3.1198A.3

If a company uses a name in contravention of this section an offence is
committed by—

25.3.1198A.3.a

the company, and

25.3.1198A.3.b

every officer of the company who is in default.

25.3.1198A.4

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale and, for
continued contravention, a daily default fine not exceeding one-tenth of level
3 on the standard scale.

25.3.1198A.5

In this section—

“ company ” includes an overseas company; “ relevant direction ” means a
direction under section 67, 75, 76,  76A  or  76B , other than a direction
under section  76B (1)(b)  given on the basis that, at the time at which a
company’s name was registered, the Secretary of State had proper grounds for
forming the opinion mentioned in section  57A .

##### Use of name that another company has been required to change

26

After section 1198A of the Companies Act 2006 (inserted by section 25 of this
Act) insert—

######### Name that another company has been required to change

26.1198B

26.1198B.1

Where a relevant direction has been given to a company to change its name, or
it has been ordered under section 73 to change its name, another company must
not carry on business in the United Kingdom under the name that the first
company was directed or ordered to change if there is a person who has, or has
had, a relevant relationship with both companies.

26.1198B.2

Subsection  (1)  does not prevent the use by a company of a name if—

26.1198B.2.a

it is registered under this Act by that name,

26.1198B.2.b

the period for complying with the direction or order has not yet expired, or

26.1198B.2.c

the direction was given, or the order was made, before section 26 of the
Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 came fully into force.

26.1198B.3

For the purposes of subsection  (1)  it is irrelevant whether the person has,
or has had, a relevant relationship with both companies at the same time.

26.1198B.4

For the purposes of this section a person has a “relevant relationship” with a
company if the person is—

26.1198B.4.a

an officer, or

26.1198B.4.b

a member or former member.

26.1198B.5

If a company uses a name in contravention of this section an offence is
committed by—

26.1198B.5.a

the company, and

26.1198B.5.b

every officer of the company who is in default.

26.1198B.6

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale and, for
continued contravention, a daily default fine not exceeding one-tenth of level
3 on the standard scale.

26.1198B.7

In this section—

“ company ” includes an overseas company; “ relevant direction ” means a
direction under section 67, 75,  76A  or  76B , other than a direction under
section  76B (1)(b)  given on the basis that, at the time at which a company’s
name was registered, the Secretary of State had proper grounds for forming the
opinion mentioned in section  57A .

##### Use of names: exceptions based on national security etc

27

After section 1199 of the Companies Act 2006 insert—

######### Exceptions based on national security etc

27.1199A

27.1199A.1

The Secretary of State may, by written notice given to a person, provide that
a prohibition imposed by this Chapter does not apply in relation to the
carrying on of a business by that person under a name specified in the notice,
if satisfied that to do so is necessary—

27.1199A.1.a

in the interests of national security, or

27.1199A.1.b

for the purposes of preventing or detecting serious crime.

27.1199A.2

For the purposes of subsection  (1)(b) —

27.1199A.2.a

“ crime ” means conduct which—

27.1199A.2.a.i

constitutes a criminal offence, or

27.1199A.2.a.ii

is, or corresponds to, any conduct which, if it all took place in any one part
of the United Kingdom, would constitute a criminal offence, and

27.1199A.2.b

crime is “serious” if—

27.1199A.2.b.i

the offence which is or would be constituted by the conduct is an offence for
which the maximum sentence (in any part of the United Kingdom) is imprisonment
for 3 years or more, or

27.1199A.2.b.ii

the conduct involves the use of violence, results in substantial financial
gain or is conduct by a large number of persons in pursuit of a common
purpose.

#### Registered offices

##### Registered office: appropriate address

28

28.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

28.2

In section 9 (registration documents), in subsection (5)(a), at the end insert
“, which must be an appropriate address within the meaning given by section
86 (2) ” .

28.3

For section 86 substitute—

########### Duty to ensure registered office at appropriate address

28.3.86

28.3.86.1

A company must ensure that its registered office is at all times at an
appropriate address.

28.3.86.2

An address is an “appropriate address” if, in the ordinary course of events—

28.3.86.2.a

a document addressed to the company, and delivered there by hand or by post,
would be expected to come to the attention of a person acting on behalf of the
company, and

28.3.86.2.b

the delivery of documents there is capable of being recorded by the obtaining
of an acknowledgement of delivery.

28.3.86.3

If a company fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply with this section an
offence is committed by—

28.3.86.3.a

the company, and

28.3.86.3.b

every officer of the company who is in default.

28.3.86.4

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction—

28.3.86.4.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

28.3.86.4.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine not
exceeding one-tenth of level 5 on the standard scale.

28.3.86.5

Subsection  (1)  does not apply in relation to a company during any period for
which the address of its registered office is a default address nominated by
virtue of section 1097A(3)(h).

28.4

In section 87 (change of address of registered office), after subsection (1)
insert—

28.4.1A

The notice must include a statement that the new address is an appropriate
address within the meaning given by section  86 (2) .

28.5

In section 853B (duties to notify a relevant event), omit paragraph (a).

28.6

After section 853C insert—

########### Duty to notify a change in registered office

28.6.853CA

28.6.853CA.1

This section applies where—

28.6.853CA.1.a

a company makes a confirmation statement,

28.6.853CA.1.b

the company’s registered office is not at an appropriate address within the
meaning given by section  86 (2) , and

28.6.853CA.1.c

the company has not given a notice under section 87 (change of registered
office) that is awaiting registration by the registrar.

28.6.853CA.2

The company must deliver a notice under section 87 at the same time as it
delivers the confirmation statement.

#### Registered email addresses

##### Registered email addresses etc

29

29.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

29.2

In section 9 (registration documents), in subsection (5), after paragraph (a)
insert—

29.2.aa

a statement of the intended registered email address of the company, which
must be an appropriate email address within the meaning given by section  88A
(2) ;

.

29.3

In section 16 (effect of registration), in subsection (4), after “status”
insert  “, registered email address” .

29.4

In the heading to Part 6 (a company’s registered office), after “registered
office” insert  “and email address” .

29.5

After section 88 insert—

########### Registered email address

############ Duty to maintain a registered email address

29.5.88A

29.5.88A.1

A company must ensure that its registered email address is at all times an
appropriate email address.

29.5.88A.2

An email address is an “appropriate email address” if, in the ordinary course
of events, emails sent to it by the registrar would be expected to come to the
attention of a person acting on behalf of the company.

29.5.88A.3

If a company fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply with this section an
offence is committed by—

29.5.88A.3.a

the company, and

29.5.88A.3.b

every officer of the company who is in default.

29.5.88A.4

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction—

29.5.88A.4.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

29.5.88A.4.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine not
exceeding one-tenth of level 5 on the standard scale.

############ Change of registered email address

29.5.88B

29.5.88B.1

A company may change its registered email address by giving notice to the
registrar.

29.5.88B.2

The notice must include a statement that the new address is an appropriate
email address within the meaning given by section  88A (2) .

29.5.88B.3

The change takes effect upon the notice being registered by the registrar.

29.6

After section  853CA  (inserted by section 28 of this Act) insert—

########### Duty to notify a change in registered email address

29.6.853CB

29.6.853CB.1

This section applies where—

29.6.853CB.1.a

a company makes a confirmation statement,

29.6.853CB.1.b

the company’s registered email address is not an appropriate email address
within the meaning given by section  88A (2) , and

29.6.853CB.1.c

the company has not given a notice under section  88B  (change of registered
email address) that is awaiting registration by the registrar.

29.6.853CB.2

The company must deliver a notice under section  88B  at the same time as it
delivers the confirmation statement.

29.7

In section 1087 (material not available for public inspection), in subsection
(1), before paragraph (a) insert—

29.7.za

an email address delivered to the registrar under—

29.7.za.i

section 9(5) (aa)  or  88B  (initial registered email address and change of
address);

29.7.za.ii

section 30 of the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023
(company’s registered email address: transitional provision);

.

29.8

In section 1115 (supplementary provisions relating to electronic
communications), omit subsection (1).

29.9

In Schedule 4 (documents and information sent or supplied to a company)—

29.9.a

after Part 2 insert—

############# Communications in electronic form from the registrar or the Secretary of State

29.9.a.4A

29.9.a.4A.1

A document or information is validly sent or supplied to a company by the
registrar or the Secretary of State if it is sent or supplied in electronic
form in accordance with sub-paragraph  (2)  or  (3) .

29.9.a.4A.2

Where the document or information is sent or supplied by electronic means it
may only be sent—

29.9.a.4A.2.a

in the case of a company registered under this Act, to the company’s
registered email address;

29.9.a.4A.2.b

in the case of any company, to an address specified by the company for that
purpose (generally or specifically).

29.9.a.4A.3

Where the document or information is sent or supplied in electronic form by
hand or by post, it must be sent or supplied to an address to which it could
be validly sent if it were in hard copy form.

;

29.9.b

in the heading of Part 3, at the end insert  “in other cases” ;

29.9.c

in paragraph 5, after “company” insert  “by a person other than the registrar
or the Secretary of State” .

##### Registered email addresses: transitional provision

30

30.1

This section applies in relation to a company registered under the Companies
Act 2006 in pursuance of an application for registration delivered to the
registrar before section 29 (2)  comes fully into force.

30.2

On the first occasion on which the company delivers a confirmation statement
with a confirmation date that is after the day on which section 29 (2)  comes
fully into force—

30.2.a

it must, at the same time, deliver to the registrar a statement specifying its
registered email address for the purposes of section  88A  of that Act
(inserted by section 29 of this Act);

30.2.b

section  853CB  of that Act (inserted by section 29 of this Act) does not
apply.

30.3

Section 853A(1) (b)(ii)  of the Companies Act 2006 (as substituted by section
59 of this Act) has effect as if it included a reference to the duty imposed
by subsection  (2)  (and section 853L of that Act applies accordingly).

30.4

Section  88A  of the Companies Act 2006 (inserted by section 29 of this Act)
does not apply in relation to the company until it has delivered the
confirmation statement mentioned in subsection  (2)  or, if it does not
deliver the statement on time, the latest time by which it was required to do
so.

30.5

In this section—

“ confirmation statement ” has the meaning given by section 853A of the
Companies Act 2006; “ the registrar ” has the meaning given by section 1060(3)
of the Companies Act 2006.

#### Disqualification in relation to companies

##### Disqualification for persistent breaches of companies legislation: GB

31

31.1

Section 3 of the Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986 (disqualification
for persistent breaches of companies legislation) is amended as follows.

31.2

In subsection (1), for the words from “provisions of the companies
legislation” to the end substitute  “relevant provisions of the companies
legislation (see subsection  (3B) )” .

31.3

In subsection (2), for “such provisions as are mentioned above” substitute
“relevant provisions of the companies legislation” .

31.4

In subsection (3)—

31.4.a

for “provision of that legislation” substitute  “such provision” ;

31.4.b

after paragraph (a) (but before the “or” at the end of that paragraph) insert—

31.4.b.aa

a financial penalty is imposed on the person in respect of such an offence by
virtue of regulations under—

31.4.b.aa.i

section 1132A of the Companies Act 2006, or

31.4.b.aa.ii

section 39 of the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022,

.

31.5

After subsection (3A) insert—

31.5.3B

In this section “ relevant provisions of the companies legislation ” means—

31.5.3B.a

any provision of the companies legislation requiring any return, account or
other document to be filed with, delivered or sent, or notice of any matter to
be given, to the registrar of companies,

31.5.3B.b

sections 167M and 167N of the Companies Act 2006 (prohibitions on acting as
director where identity not verified or where there has been a failure to
notify a directorship), and

31.5.3B.c

sections  790LQ  and  790LR  of the Companies Act 2006 (persons with
significant control: ongoing duties in relation to identity verification).

31.6

For subsection (4A) substitute—

31.6.4A

In this section “ the companies legislation ” means—

31.6.4A.a

the Companies Acts,

31.6.4A.b

Parts A1 to 7 of the Insolvency Act 1986 (company insolvency and winding up),
and

31.6.4A.c

Part 1 of the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022
(registration of overseas entities).

##### Disqualification for persistent breaches of companies legislation: NI

32

32.1

The Company Directors Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order 2002 ( S.I.
2002/3150 (N.I. 4) ) is amended as follows.

32.2

In Article 6 (disqualification for persistent breaches of companies
legislation)—

32.2.a

in paragraph (1), for the words from “provisions of the companies legislation”
to the end substitute  “relevant provisions of the companies legislation (see
paragraph  (3ZA) )” ;

32.2.b

in paragraph (2), for “such provisions as are mentioned in paragraph (1)”
substitute  “relevant provisions of the companies legislation” ;

32.2.c

in paragraph (3), after sub-paragraph (a) (but before the “or” at the end of
that sub-paragraph) insert—

32.2.c.aa

a financial penalty is imposed on the person by the registrar in respect of
such an offence by virtue of regulations under—

32.2.c.aa.i

section 1132A of the Companies Act 2006, or

32.2.c.aa.ii

section 39 of the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022,

;

32.2.d

after paragraph (3) insert—

32.2.d.3ZA

In this Article “ relevant provisions of the companies legislation ” means—

32.2.d.3ZA.a

any provision of the companies legislation requiring any return, account or
other document to be filed with, delivered or sent, or notice of any matter to
be given, to the registrar,

32.2.d.3ZA.b

sections 167M and 167N of the Companies Act 2006 (prohibitions on acting as
director where identity not verified or where there has been a failure to
notify a directorship), and

32.2.d.3ZA.c

sections  790LQ  and  790LR  of the Companies Act 2006 (persons with
significant control: ongoing duties in relation to identity verification).

;

32.2.e

for paragraph (3A) substitute—

32.2.e.3A

In this Article “ the companies legislation ” means—

32.2.e.3A.a

the Companies Acts,

32.2.e.3A.b

Parts 1A to 7 of the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 (company
insolvency and winding up), and

32.2.e.3A.c

Part 1 of the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022
(registration of overseas entities).

32.3

In Article 25A (application of Order to registered societies), in paragraph
(2)(c), for “Articles 6(1) and 8(1)” substitute  “Article 6 (3ZA)(a) ” .

32.4

In Article 25B (application of Order to credit unions), in paragraph (3)(b),
for “Articles 6(1) and 8(1) references” substitute  “Article 6 (3ZA)(a)  the
reference” .

##### Disqualification on summary conviction: GB

33

33.1

Section 5 of the Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986 (disqualification
on summary conviction) is amended as follows.

33.2

In subsection (1), for the words from “provision of the companies legislation”
to “the registrar of companies” substitute  “of the relevant provisions of the
companies legislation” .

33.3

For subsection (3) substitute—

33.3.3

Those circumstances are that, during the 5 years ending with the date of the
conviction, there have been no fewer than 3 relevant findings of guilt in
relation to the person.

33.3.3A

For these purposes, there is a relevant finding of guilt in relation to the
person if —

33.3.3A.a

the person is convicted of an offence counting for the purposes of this
section (including the offence of which the person is convicted as mentioned
in subsection (2) and any other offence of which the person is convicted on
the same occasion),

33.3.3A.b

a financial penalty of the kind mentioned in section 3(3)(aa) is imposed on
the person, or

33.3.3A.c

a default order within the meaning of section 3(3)(b) is made against the
person.

33.4

In subsection (4), omit paragraph (b) and the “and” before it.

33.5

For subsection (4A) substitute—

33.5.4A

In this section “ relevant provisions of the companies legislation ” has the
meaning given by section 3(3B).

##### Disqualification on summary conviction: NI

34

34.1

Article 8 of the Company Directors Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order
2002 ( S.I. 2002/3150 (N.I. 4) ) (disqualification on summary conviction) is
amended as follows.

34.2

In paragraph (1), for the words from “provision of the companies legislation”
to “the registrar” substitute  “of the relevant provisions of the companies
legislation” .

34.3

For paragraph (3) substitute—

34.3.3

Those circumstances are that, during the 5 years ending with the date of the
conviction, there have been no fewer than 3 relevant findings of guilt in
relation to the person.

34.3.3A

For these purposes, there is a relevant finding of guilt in relation to the
person if —

34.3.3A.a

the person is convicted of an offence counting for the purposes of this
Article (including the offence of which the person is convicted as mentioned
in paragraph (2) and any other offence of which the person is convicted on the
same occasion),

34.3.3A.b

a financial penalty of the kind mentioned in Article 6(3)(aa) is imposed on
the person, or

34.3.3A.c

a default order within the meaning of Article 6(3)(b) is made against the
person.

34.4

Omit paragraph (4).

34.5

For paragraph (4A) substitute—

34.5.4A

In this Article “ relevant provisions of the companies legislation ” has the
meaning given by Article 6(3ZA).

##### Power to impose director disqualification sanctions

35

35.1

The Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018 is amended as follows.

35.2

In section 1 (power to make sanctions regulations), in subsection (5), after
paragraph (a) insert—

35.2.aa

impose director disqualification sanctions (see section  3A );

.

35.3

After section 3 insert—

########### Director disqualification sanctions

35.3.3A

35.3.3A.1

For the purposes of section 1(5) (aa)  regulations “impose director
disqualification sanctions” if they provide for designated persons (see
section 9) to be persons subject to director disqualification sanctions for
the purposes of—

35.3.3A.1.a

section 11A of the Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986, and

35.3.3A.1.b

Article 15A of the Company Directors Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order
2002.

35.3.3A.2

As to the effect of such provision, see—

35.3.3A.2.a

section 11A of the Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986, and

35.3.3A.2.b

Article 15A of the Company Directors Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order
2002.

35.4

In section 9 (“designated persons”)—

35.4.a

in subsection (1), for “3 and 4” substitute  “3 to 4” ;

35.4.b

in subsection (3), after “3,” insert  “ 3A ,” .

35.5

In section 15 (exceptions and licences), after subsection (3) insert—

35.5.3A

Where regulations provide for designated persons to be persons subject to
director disqualification sanctions for the purposes of section 11A of the
Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986 and Article 15A of the Company
Directors Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order 2002, the regulations may—

35.5.3A.a

create exceptions from subsection (1) of that section or paragraph (1) of that
Article;

35.5.3A.b

confer power on an appropriate Minister to issue a licence to authorise a
designated person to do anything that would otherwise be prohibited by
subsection (1) of that section or paragraph (1) of that Article.

35.5.3B

Regulations may, as respects any licences provided for under subsection  (3A)
, make any provision mentioned (in relation to licences) in subsection (3).

##### Disqualification of persons designated under sanctions legislation: GB

36

36.1

The Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986 is amended as follows.

36.2

After section 11 insert—

########### Designated persons under sanctions legislation

36.2.11A

36.2.11A.1

It is an offence for a person who is subject to director disqualification
sanctions to act as a director of a company or directly or indirectly to take
part in or be concerned in the promotion, formation or management of a company
(but see subsection  (2) ).

36.2.11A.2

Subsection  (1)  does not apply—

36.2.11A.2.a

to the extent that an exception from subsection (1) has been created by virtue
of section 15(3A) of the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018, or

36.2.11A.2.b

to anything done under the authority of a licence issued by virtue of section
15(3A) of that Act.

36.2.11A.3

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under this section to
prove that they did not know and could not reasonably have been expected to
know that they were subject to director disqualification sanctions at the time
at which they engaged in that conduct.

36.2.11A.4

In this section “ person who is subject to director disqualification sanctions
” means a person who under regulations under section 1 of the Sanctions and
Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018 is a person subject to director
disqualification sanctions for the purposes of this section and Article 15A of
the Company Directors Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order 2002 (see
section 3A of the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018).

36.3

In section 13 (criminal penalties), after “section 11” insert  “or  11A ” .

36.4

In section 14 (offences by body corporate), for subsection (1) substitute—

36.4.1

Where—

36.4.1.a

a body corporate is—

36.4.1.a.i

guilty of an offence of acting in contravention of a disqualification order or
disqualification undertaking or in contravention of section 12A or 12B, or

36.4.1.a.ii

guilty of an offence under section 11A, and

36.4.1.b

it is proved that the offence occurred with the consent or connivance of, or
was attributable to any neglect on the part of any director, manager,
secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate, or any person who
was purporting to act in any such capacity,

the person, as well as the body corporate, is guilty of the offence and liable
to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

36.5

In section 15 (personal liability for company’s debts where person acts while
disqualified)—

36.5.a

in subsection (1)(a), after “section 11” insert  “,  11A ” ;

36.5.b

omit the “or” at the end of subsection (1)(a);

36.5.c

after subsection (1)(b) insert

, or

36.5.c.c

as a person who is involved in the management of the company, they act or are
willing to act on instructions where—

36.5.c.c.i

the instructions are given by a person whom they know at that time to be
subject to director disqualification sanctions (within the meaning of section
11A),

36.5.c.c.ii

the giving of the instructions does not fall within any exception from section
11A(1) created by virtue of section 15(3A) of the Sanctions and Anti-Money
Laundering Act 2018, and

36.5.c.c.iii

the instructions are not authorised,

(but see subsection (3A)).

;

36.5.d

in subsection (3)(b), after “(b)” insert  “or (c)” ;

36.5.e

after subsection (3) insert—

36.5.e.3A

But—

36.5.e.3A.a

a person who is subject to director disqualification sanctions (within the
meaning of section 11A) is not personally responsible under subsection (1)(a)
for any relevant debts of the company incurred at a time when the person did
not know and could not reasonably have been expected to know that they were
subject to director disqualification sanctions;

36.5.e.3A.b

a person is not personally responsible under subsection (1)(c) for any
relevant debts of the company incurred at a time when the person reasonably
believed that the instructions were authorised.

;

36.5.f

after subsection (5) insert—

36.5.f.6

Subsection  (7)  applies where a person (“ P ”) at any time—

36.5.f.6.a

was involved in the management of a company, and

36.5.f.6.b

acted on instructions where—

36.5.f.6.b.i

the instructions were given by a person (“ D ”) whom P knew at that time to be
subject to director disqualification sanctions (within the meaning of section
11A),

36.5.f.6.b.ii

the giving of the instructions did not fall within any exception from section
11A(1) created by virtue of section 15(3A) of the Sanctions and Anti-Money
Laundering Act 2018, and

36.5.f.6.b.iii

the instructions were not authorised,

unless P reasonably believed at that time that the instructions were
authorised.

36.5.f.7

For the purposes of this section P is presumed, unless the contrary is shown,
to have been willing at any time thereafter to act on any instructions given
by D.

36.5.f.8

For the purposes of this section instructions are “authorised” if they are
given under the authority of a licence issued by virtue of section 15(3A) of
the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018.

36.6

In section 18 (register of disqualification orders and undertakings), in
subsection (2A), after paragraph (c) insert—

36.6.d

persons who are subject to director disqualification sanctions within the
meaning of section 11A;

36.6.e

any licences issued by virtue of section 15(3A) of the Sanctions and Anti-
Money Laundering Act 2018.

36.7

In section 21 (interaction with Insolvency Act), in subsection (4), after
“section 11” insert  “,  11A ” .

##### Section 36: application to other bodies

37

37.1

The Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986 is amended as follows.

37.2

In section 22A (application of Act to building societies), in subsection
(3A)(a), for “and 7(2)(b)” substitute  “, 7(2)(b) and 11A” .

37.3

In section 22B (application of Act to incorporated friendly societies), in
subsection (3A)(a), for “and 8ZA to 8ZE” substitute  “, 8ZA to 8ZE and 11A” .

37.4

In section 22C (application of Act to NHS foundation trusts), in subsection
(2A)(a), for “and 7(2)(b)” substitute  “, 7(2)(b) and 11A” .

37.5

In section 22E (application of Act to registered societies), in subsection
(4)(f), for “and 8ZA to 8ZE” substitute  “, 8ZA to 8ZE and 11A” .

37.6

In section 22F (application of Act to charitable incorporated organisations),
in subsection (3), after paragraph (d) insert—

37.6.da

section 11A is to be disregarded;

.

37.7

In section 22G (application of Act to further education bodies), in subsection
(3), after paragraph (c) insert—

37.7.d

section 11A is to be disregarded.

37.8

In section 22H (application of Act to protected cell companies), in subsection
(4)(za), in subsection (4)(za), for “and 7(2)(b)” substitute  “, 7(2)(b) and
11A” .

37.9

The Secretary of State may by regulations repeal any of the previous
subsections of this section before the subsection is brought into force.

##### Disqualification of persons designated under sanctions legislation: NI

38

38.1

The Company Directors Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order 2002 ( S.I.
2002/3150 (N.I. 4) ) is amended as follows.

38.2

After Article 15 insert—

########### Designated persons under sanctions legislation

38.2.15A

38.2.15A.1

It is an offence for a person who is subject to director disqualification
sanctions to act as a director of a company or directly or indirectly to take
part in or be concerned in the promotion, formation or management of a company
(but see paragraph  (2) ).

38.2.15A.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply—

38.2.15A.2.a

to the extent that an exception from paragraph (1) has been created by virtue
of section 15(3A) of the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018, or

38.2.15A.2.b

to anything done under the authority of a licence issued by virtue of section
15(3A) of that Act.

38.2.15A.3

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under this Article to
prove that they did not know and could not reasonably have been expected to
know that they were subject to director disqualification sanctions at the time
at which they engaged in that conduct.

38.2.15A.4

In this Article “ person who is subject to director disqualification sanctions
” means a person who under regulations under section 1 of the Sanctions and
Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018 is a person subject to director
disqualification sanctions for the purposes of this Article and section 11A of
the Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986 (see section 3A of the
Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018).

38.3

In Article 18 (criminal penalties)—

38.3.a

omit “15,”;

38.3.b

for “and” substitute  “; and any person guilty of an offence under this
Article or Article 15 or 15A” .

38.4

In Article 19 (personal liability for company’s debts where person acts while
disqualified)—

38.4.a

in paragraph (1)(a), after “Article 15” insert  “, 15A” ;

38.4.b

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (1)(a);

38.4.c

after paragraph (1)(b) insert

, or

38.4.c.c

as a person who is involved in the management of the company, they act or are
willing to act on instructions where—

38.4.c.c.i

the instructions are given by a person whom they know at that time to be
subject to director disqualification sanctions (within the meaning of Article
15A),

38.4.c.c.ii

the giving of the instructions does not fall within any exception from Article
15A(1) created by virtue of section 15(3A) of the Sanctions and Anti-Money
Laundering Act 2018, and

38.4.c.c.iii

the instructions are not authorised,

(but see paragraph (3A)).

;

38.4.d

in paragraph (3)(b), after “(1)(b)” insert  “or (c)” ;

38.4.e

after paragraph (3) insert—

38.4.e.3A

But—

38.4.e.3A.a

a person who is subject to director disqualification sanctions (within the
meaning of Article 15A) is not personally responsible under paragraph (1)(a)
for any relevant debts of the company incurred at a time when the person did
not know and could not reasonably have been expected to know that they were
subject to director disqualification sanctions;

38.4.e.3A.b

a person is not personally responsible under paragraph (1)(c) for any relevant
debts of the company incurred at a time when the person reasonably believed
that the instructions were authorised.

;

38.4.f

in paragraph (5), in the closing words, after “given” insert  “by” ;

38.4.g

after paragraph (5) insert—

38.4.g.6

Paragraph  (7)  applies where a person (“ P ”) at any time—

38.4.g.6.a

was involved in the management of a company, and

38.4.g.6.b

acted on instructions where—

38.4.g.6.b.i

the instructions were given by a person (“ D ”) whom P knew at that time to be
subject to director disqualification sanctions (within the meaning of Article
15A),

38.4.g.6.b.ii

the giving of the instructions did not fall within any exception from Article
15A(1) created by virtue of section 15(3A) of the Sanctions and Anti-Money
Laundering Act 2018, and

38.4.g.6.b.iii

the instructions were not authorised,

unless P reasonably believed at that time that the instructions were
authorised.

38.4.g.7

For the purposes of this Article P is presumed, unless the contrary is shown,
to have been willing at any time thereafter to act on any instructions given
by D.

38.4.g.8

For the purposes of this Article instructions are “authorised” if they are
given under the authority of a licence issued by virtue of section 15(3A) of
the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018.

38.5

In Article 22 (register of disqualification orders and undertakings), in
paragraph (3), after sub-paragraph (c) insert—

38.5.d

persons who are subject to director disqualification sanctions within the
meaning of Article 15A;

38.5.e

any licences issued by virtue of section 15(3A) of the Sanctions and Anti-
Money Laundering Act 2018 that authorise such a person to do anything that
would otherwise be prohibited by Article 15A(1).

##### Section 38: application to other bodies

39

39.1

The Company Directors Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order 2002 ( S.I.
2002/3150 (N.I. 4) ) is amended as follows.

39.2

In Article 24D (application of Order to building societies), in paragraph
(3A)(a), for “and 10(2)(b) and (5A)” substitute  “, 10(2)(b) and (5A) and  15A
” .

39.3

In Article 25 (application of Order to incorporated friendly societies), in
paragraph (3A)(a), for “and 11A to 11E” substitute  “, 11A to 11E and  15A ” .

39.4

In Article 25A (application of Order to registered societies), in paragraph
(2)(g), for “and 11A to 11E” substitute  “, 11A to 11E and  15A ” .

39.5

In Article 25B (application of Order to credit unions), in paragraph (3)(c),
for “and 11A to 11E” substitute  “, 11A to 11E and  15A ” .

39.6

In Article 25C (application of Order to protected cell companies), in
paragraph (4)(za), for “and 10(2)(b) and (5A)” substitute  “, 10(2)(b) and
(5A) and  15A ” .

39.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations repeal any of the previous
subsections of this section before the subsection is brought into force.

#### Directors

##### Disqualified directors

40

40.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

40.2

After section 159 insert—

########### Disqualified person not to be appointed as director

40.2.159A

40.2.159A.1

A person may not be appointed a director of a company if the person is
disqualified under the directors disqualification legislation (see subsection
(2) ).

40.2.159A.2

In the table—

40.2.159A.2.a

Part 1 defines “ disqualified under the directors disqualification legislation
” for the purposes of provisions of this Act so far as relating to—

40.2.159A.2.a.i

a company registered in England and Wales or Scotland, or

40.2.159A.2.a.ii

the delivery of a document to the registrar of companies for England and Wales
or Scotland or a statement contained in such a document;

40.2.159A.2.b

Part 2 defines “ disqualified under the directors disqualification legislation
” for the purposes of provisions of this Act so far as relating to—

40.2.159A.2.b.i

a company registered in Northern Ireland, or

40.2.159A.2.b.ii

the delivery of a document to the registrar of companies for Northern Ireland
or a statement contained in such a document.

For those purposes a person (P) is disqualified under the directors
disqualification legislation if: Except in the application of the provision in
relation to P acting in a capacity, or doing anything, for which P has the
permission of a court or the authority of a licence, or in respect of which an
exception applies, by virtue of: Part 1: England and Wales and Scotland P is
subject to a disqualification order or undertaking under the Company Directors
Disqualification Act 1986. Section 1(1), 1A(1) or 9B(4) of the 1986 Act. Any
of the circumstances mentioned in section 11 of the Company Directors
Disqualification Act 1986 (bankruptcy etc) apply to P. Section 11 of the 1986
Act. P is subject to director disqualification sanctions within the meaning of
section 11A of the Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986. Section 15(3A)
of the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018 (exceptions and licences).
Section 12 of the Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986 (disabilities on
revocation of administration order against an individual) applies to P.
Section 12 of the 1986 Act. P is subject to a disqualification order or
undertaking mentioned in section 12A or 12B of the Company Directors
Disqualification Act 1986 (recognition of Northern Ireland disqualification
orders and undertakings). Section 12A or 12B of the 1986 Act. P is
disqualified as mentioned in section 1184(2)(a) or (b) or is subject to a
disqualification undertaking under section 1184(3). Section 1184(5). Part 2:
Northern Ireland P is subject to a disqualification order or undertaking under
the Company Directors Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order 2002 (
S.I.2002/3150 (N.I. 4) ). Article 3(1), 4(1) or 13B(4) of the 2002 Order. Any
of the circumstances mentioned in Article 15 of the Company Directors
Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order 2002 (bankruptcy etc) apply to P.
Article 15 of the 2002 Order. P is subject to director disqualification
sanctions within the meaning of Article 15A of the Company Directors
Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order 2002. Section 15(3A) of the
Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018 (exceptions and licences).
Article 16 of the Company Directors Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order
2002 (disabilities on revocation of administration order against an
individual) applies to P. Article 16 of the 2002 Order. P is subject to a
disqualification order or undertaking mentioned in Article 17 of the Company
Directors Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order 2002 (recognition of GB
disqualification orders and undertakings). Article 17 of the 2002 Order. P is
disqualified as mentioned in section 1184(2)(a) or (b) or is subject to a
disqualification undertaking under section 1184(3). Section 1184(5).

40.2.159A.3

An appointment made in contravention of this section is void.

40.2.159A.4

Nothing in this section affects any liability of a person under any provision
of the Companies Acts or any other enactment if the person—

40.2.159A.4.a

purports to act as director, or

40.2.159A.4.b

acts as shadow director,

although the person could not, by virtue of this section, be validly appointed
as a director.

40.3

After section 169 insert—

########### Removal from office of disqualified directors

40.3.169A

40.3.169A.1

A person who has been appointed as a director of a company ceases to hold
office by virtue of that appointment if the person becomes disqualified under
the directors disqualification legislation (see section  159A (2) ).

40.3.169A.2

Nothing in this section affects any liability of a person under any provision
of the Companies Acts or any other enactment, if, having ceased to hold office
by virtue of subsection  (1) , the person—

40.3.169A.2.a

purports to act as director, or

40.3.169A.2.b

acts as shadow director.

40.3.169A.3

In relation to a person appointed as a director of a company before the time
when this section comes into force, the reference in subsection  (1)  to a
person who becomes disqualified includes a reference to a person who, at that
time, is already disqualified.

40.4

In Schedule 8 (index of defined expressions), at the appropriate place insert—

disqualified under the directors disqualification legislation section  159A
(2)

.

##### Section 40: amendments to clarify existing corresponding provisions

41

41.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

41.2

In section 156C (existing director who is not a natural person)—

41.2.a

in subsection (2), for “be a director” substitute  “hold office by virtue of
that appointment” ;

41.2.b

after subsection (2) insert—

41.2.b.2A

Nothing in this section affects any liability of a person under any provision
of the Companies Acts or any other enactment, if, having ceased to hold office
by virtue of subsection (2), the person—

41.2.b.2A.a

purports to act as director, or

41.2.b.2A.b

acts as shadow director.

41.3

In section 158 (power to provide for exceptions from minimum age requirement)—

41.3.a

in subsection (3), after “office” insert  “by virtue of that appointment” ;

41.3.b

after subsection (3) insert—

41.3.b.3A

Nothing in subsection (3) affects any liability of a person under any
provision of the Companies Acts or any other enactment, if, having ceased to
hold office by virtue of that subsection, the person—

41.3.b.3A.a

purports to act as director, or

41.3.b.3A.b

acts as shadow director.

41.4

Omit section 159 (which is spent).

##### Repeal of power to require additional statements

42

In the Companies Act 2006—

42.a

omit section 1189 (power to require additional statements in connection with
disqualified person becoming director or secretary);

42.b

in sections 1190(1) and 1191(1) (further provision and offences), omit “or
1189”.

##### Prohibition on director acting unless ID verified

43

After section  167L  of the Companies Act 2006 (inserted by Schedule 2 to this
Act) insert—

######### Directors: duties relating to ID verification and notification

########## Prohibition on director acting unless ID verified

43.167M

43.167M.1

An individual must not act as a director of a company unless the individual’s
identity is verified (see section 1110A).

43.167M.2

A company must ensure that an individual does not act as a director unless the
individual’s identity is verified (see section 1110A).

43.167M.3

A person who contravenes subsection  (1)  commits an offence.

43.167M.4

If a company contravenes subsection  (2)  an offence is committed by—

43.167M.4.a

the company, and

43.167M.4.b

every officer of the company who is in default.

For this purpose a shadow director is treated as an officer of the company.

43.167M.5

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction—

43.167M.5.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

43.167M.5.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine not
exceeding one-tenth of level 5 on the standard scale.

43.167M.6

The only consequences of contravening subsections  (1)  and  (2)  are the
offences provided for by this section (so that, for example, a contravention
does not in any way affect the validity of an individual’s acts as a
director).

##### Prohibition on acting unless directorship notified

44

After section  167M  of the Companies Act 2006 (inserted by section 43 of this
Act) insert—

######### Prohibition on acting unless directorship notified

44.167N

44.167N.1

This section applies where—

44.167N.1.a

a person has become a director of a company otherwise than on its
incorporation, and

44.167N.1.b

notice under section  167G  of the person having done so has not been given
within the period mentioned in subsection  (6)  of that section.

44.167N.2

The person may not act as a director of the company until notice is given
under section  167G .

44.167N.3

A person who contravenes subsection  (2)  commits an offence.

44.167N.4

Where the offence is committed by a firm, every officer of the firm who is in
default also commits the offence.

44.167N.5

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under this section to
prove that they reasonably believed that notice had been given under section
167G .

44.167N.6

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction—

44.167N.6.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

44.167N.6.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine not
exceeding one-tenth of level 5 on the standard scale.

44.167N.7

The only consequence of a contravention of subsection  (2)  is the offence
provided for by this section (so that, for example, a contravention does not
in any way affect the validity of a person’s acts as a director).

##### Registrar’s power to change a director’s service address

45

For section 246 of the Companies Act 2006 substitute—

######### Putting the address on the public record

45.246

45.246.1

If the registrar decides in accordance with section 245 that a director‘s
usual residential address is to be put on the public record, the registrar
must proceed as if each relevant company had given notice under section 167H—

45.246.1.a

stating a change in the director’s service address, and

45.246.1.b

stating the director’s usual residential address as their new service address.

45.246.2

The registrar must give notice of having done so—

45.246.2.a

to the director, and

45.246.2.b

to every relevant company.

45.246.3

The notice must state the date of the registrar’s decision to put the
director’s usual residential address on the public record.

45.246.4

Where a director’s usual residential address has been put on the public record
by the registrar under this section, for the period of five years beginning
with the date of the registrar’s decision no service address may be registered
for the director other than their usual residential address (but see
subsection (5)).

45.246.5

Subsection (4)—

45.246.5.a

does not limit the service address that may be registered for the director
under regulations under section  1097B  (rectification of register), and

45.246.5.b

ceases to apply in relation to the director if a new service address is
registered for the director under those regulations.

45.246.6

In this section “ relevant company ” means each company given notice under
section 245(2)(b).

#### Register of members

##### Register of members: information to be included and powers to obtain it

46

46.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

46.2

In section 112 (the members of a company), at the end insert—

46.2.4

Where an individual’s name is entered in a company’s register of members but
is not in the form required by section  113A , that does not affect the person
becoming a member of the company by virtue of subsection (2).

46.3

For the italic heading “General” at the beginning of Chapter 2 of Part 8
substitute  “Duty to keep register” .

46.4

In section 113 (register of members)—

46.4.a

for subsection (2) substitute—

46.4.a.2

There must be entered in the register, in respect of each person who is a
member—

46.4.a.2.a

the required information (see sections  113A  and  113B ), and

46.4.a.2.b

the date on which the person was registered as a member.

46.4.a.2A

Where a person ceases to be a member there must be entered in the register the
date at which the person’s membership ceased.

;

46.4.b

in subsection (3), omit “, with the names and addresses of the members,”;

46.4.c

in subsection (5), after “show a single” insert  “service” ;

46.4.d

in subsection (6), omit “, with the names and addresses of the members,”;

46.4.e

after subsection (6) insert—

46.4.e.6A

Where any of the information required to be entered in a company’s register of
members changes and, at the time of the change, it is a non-traded company—

46.4.e.6A.a

the fact that the information has changed does not relieve the company from
the obligation to include the old information in the register if it has not
already done so,

46.4.e.6A.b

the old information must be retained in the register until its removal is
authorised by section 121 or by court order under section 125, and

46.4.e.6A.c

a note must be included in the register recording the date on which the
information changed and the date on which the change was entered in the
register.

46.4.e.6B

Where any of the information required to be entered in a company’s register of
members changes and, at the time of the change, it is a traded company, the
company is not required to include or retain the old information in the
register.

46.4.e.6C

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

46.4.e.6C.a

amend subsection (6A) so as to provide for it to apply in relation to traded
companies, and

46.4.e.6C.b

repeal subsection  (6B)  in consequence.

46.4.e.6D

Regulations under subsection  (6C)  are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

;

46.4.f

in subsection (7), after “If” insert  “, without reasonable excuse,” ;

46.4.g

after subsection (8) insert—

46.4.g.9

In this section—

“ non-traded company ” means a company that is not a traded company; “
relevant market ” has the meaning given by section 853E(6); “ traded company ”
means a company any of whose shares are admitted to trading on a relevant
market or on any other market which is outside the United Kingdom.

46.5

After section 113 insert—

########### Required information about members: individuals

46.5.113A

46.5.113A.1

The required information about a member who is an individual is—

46.5.113A.1.a

name;

46.5.113A.1.b

a service address.

46.5.113A.2

In this section “ name ” means forename and surname.

46.5.113A.3

Where a member is a peer or an individual usually known by a title—

46.5.113A.3.a

any requirement imposed by section  113D  or  113E , or by a notice under
section  113F , to provide their name may be satisfied by providing their
title instead;

46.5.113A.3.b

the title may be entered in the register of members instead of their forename
and surname (and references in any enactment to the name of a person entered
in a company’s register of members are to be construed accordingly).

########### Required information about members: corporate members and firms

46.5.113B

The required information about a member that is a body corporate, or a firm
that is a legal person under the law by which it is governed, is—

46.5.113B.a

corporate or firm name;

46.5.113B.b

a service address.

########### Power to amend the required information

46.5.113C

46.5.113C.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

46.5.113C.1.a

make provision changing the required information about a member for the
purposes of this Chapter;

46.5.113C.1.b

repeal section  113A (3) .

46.5.113C.2

The provision that may be made in regulations under subsection  (1)(a)
includes provision amending this Chapter.

46.5.113C.3

The consequential provision that may be made in regulations under subsection
(1)(a)  by virtue of section 1292(1) also includes provision amending section
50 of the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023.

46.5.113C.4

Regulations under subsection  (1)  are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

########### Duty on new members to notify required information

46.5.113D

46.5.113D.1

A person who becomes a member of a company must provide the company with the
required information about the member (see sections  113A  and  113B ).

46.5.113D.2

Subsection (1) does not apply if or to the extent that—

46.5.113D.2.a

the person has already provided the information to the company, or

46.5.113D.2.b

the person becomes a member of the company on its incorporation and the
information is contained in the application for the registration of the
company.

46.5.113D.3

A person must comply with this section within the period of two months
beginning with the date on which the person became a member.

########### Duty on member to notify changes to required information

46.5.113E

46.5.113E.1

A person who is a member of a company must give notice to the company of any
change in the required information about the member (see sections  113A  and
113B ).

46.5.113E.2

The notice must specify the date on which the change occurred.

46.5.113E.3

A person must comply with this section within the period of two months
beginning with the date on which the change occurred.

########### Power for company to require information from members

46.5.113F

46.5.113F.1

A company may, for the purposes of ensuring that its register of members
includes the information that it is required to include, require a member or
former member of the company to provide any of the required information about
the member or former member (see sections  113A  and  113B ).

46.5.113F.2

The notice must require the recipient to comply with it within the period of
one month beginning with the date on which the notice is given.

########### Failure to comply with section 

46.5.113G

46.5.113G.1

A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with section  113D
or  113E  commits an offence.

46.5.113G.2

A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a notice under
section  113F  commits an offence.

46.5.113G.3

Where an offence under subsection  (1)  or  (2)  is committed by a firm, the
offence is also committed by every officer of the firm who is in default.

46.5.113G.4

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

46.5.113G.4.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both);

46.5.113G.4.b

on summary conviction—

46.5.113G.4.b.i

in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the general
limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

46.5.113G.4.b.ii

in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or a fine not
exceeding the statutory maximum (or both) and, for continued contravention, a
daily default fine not exceeding one-fifth of the statutory maximum;

46.5.113G.4.b.iii

in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a
fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both) and, for continued
contravention, a daily default fine not exceeding one-fifth of the statutory
maximum.

########### Basic false statement offences in connection with sections 

46.5.113H

46.5.113H.1

A person commits an offence if, in purported compliance with section  113D  or
113E  and without reasonable excuse, the person makes a statement that is
misleading, false or deceptive in a material particular.

46.5.113H.2

A person commits an offence if, in purported compliance with a notice under
section  113F  and without reasonable excuse, the person makes a statement
that is misleading, false or deceptive in a material particular.

46.5.113H.3

Where an offence under subsection  (1)  or  (2)  is committed by a firm, the
offence is also committed by every officer of the firm who is in default.

46.5.113H.4

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

46.5.113H.4.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to a fine;

46.5.113H.4.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale;

46.5.113H.4.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on
the standard scale.

########### Aggravated false statement offences in connection with sections 

46.5.113I

46.5.113I.1

A person commits an offence if, in purported compliance with section  113D  or
113E , the person makes a statement that the person knows to be misleading,
false or deceptive in a material particular.

46.5.113I.2

A person commits an offence if, in purported compliance with a notice under
section  113F , the person makes a statement that the person knows to be
misleading, false or deceptive in a material particular.

46.5.113I.3

Where an offence under subsection  (1)  or  (2)  is committed by a firm, the
offence is also committed by every officer of the firm who is in default.

46.5.113I.4

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

46.5.113I.4.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both);

46.5.113I.4.b

on summary conviction—

46.5.113I.4.b.i

in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the general
limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

46.5.113I.4.b.ii

in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or a fine not
exceeding the statutory maximum (or both) and, for continued contravention, a
daily default fine not exceeding one-fifth of the statutory maximum;

46.5.113I.4.b.iii

in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a
fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both) and, for continued
contravention, a daily default fine not exceeding one-fifth of the statutory
maximum.

Duty to keep index of members

.

46.6

Section 115 (index of members)—

46.6.a

is moved to after the italic heading “Duty to keep index of members” inserted
by subsection  (5)  of this section, and

46.6.b

is renumbered section 113J.

46.7

In that section as renumbered—

46.7.a

in subsection (1), for “names of the members of the company” substitute
“names or titles of the members of the company (to be known as “ the index of
members’ names ”)” ;

46.7.b

for subsection (3) substitute—

46.7.b.3

The index must include the same details of a person’s name or title as are
entered in the register of members.

46.8

Before section 114 insert—

Inspection etc of register and index of members

.

46.9

Before section 121 insert—

Removal of entries from register of members

.

46.10

In section 123 (single member companies)—

46.10.a

in subsection (1), omit “, with the name and address of the sole member,”;

46.10.b

in subsection (2), omit “, with the name and address of the sole member”;

46.10.c

in subsection (3), omit “, with the name and address of the person who was
formerly the sole member”.

46.11

In section 771 (procedure on transfer being lodged), after subsection (1)
insert—

46.11.1A

The company may not register the transfer under subsection (1)(a) unless
satisfied that it has the information that it is required to enter in its
register of members in relation to the transferee.

##### Additional ground for rectifying the register of members

47

In section 125 of the Companies Act 2006 (power of court to rectify the
register), for subsection (1) substitute—

47.1

If a company’s register of members—

47.1.a

does not include information that it is required to include, or

47.1.b

includes information that it is not required to include,

the person aggrieved, or any member of the company, or the company, may apply
to the court for rectification of the register.

##### Register of members: protecting information

48

48.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

48.2

In section 114 (register to be kept available for inspection), in subsection
(1), after paragraph (b) insert—

This is subject to any restriction imposed by regulations under section  120A
(protected material).

48.3

In section 115 (index of members), after subsection (4) insert—

48.3.4A

Subsection (4) is subject to any restriction imposed by regulations under
section  120A  (protected material).

48.4

In section 116 (rights to inspect and require copies), after subsection (2)
insert—

48.4.2A

Subsections (1) and (2) are subject to any restriction imposed by regulations
under section  120A  (protected material).

48.5

In section 120 (information as to state of register and index), after
subsection (2) insert—

48.5.2A

Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to an alteration that relates to
information that the company is required to refrain from disclosing by virtue
of regulations under section  120A  (protected material).

48.6

After section 120 of the Companies Act 2006 insert—

########### Power to make regulations protecting material

48.6.120A

48.6.120A.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

48.6.120A.1.a

require a company to refrain from using, or refrain from disclosing,
individual membership information except in circumstances specified in the
regulations;

48.6.120A.1.b

confer power on the registrar, on application, to make an order requiring a
company to refrain from using, or refrain from disclosing, individual
membership information except in circumstances specified in the regulations.

48.6.120A.2

“ Individual membership information ” means information that—

48.6.120A.2.a

relates to an individual who is a member or former member of the company, and

48.6.120A.2.b

is required to be entered in the company’s register of members or index of
members’ names.

48.6.120A.3

Regulations under subsection  (1)(b)  may make provision as to—

48.6.120A.3.a

who may make an application;

48.6.120A.3.b

the grounds on which an application may be made;

48.6.120A.3.c

the information to be included in and documents to accompany an application;

48.6.120A.3.d

how an application is to be determined;

48.6.120A.3.e

the notice to be given of an application and its outcome;

48.6.120A.3.f

the duration of and procedures for revoking the restrictions on use and
disclosure.

48.6.120A.4

Provision under subsection  (3)  may in particular—

48.6.120A.4.a

confer a discretion on the registrar;

48.6.120A.4.b

provide for a question to be referred to a person other than the registrar for
the purposes of determining the application or revoking the restrictions.

48.6.120A.5

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

48.6.120A.6

Nothing in this section or in regulations made under it affects the use or
disclosure of information about a person in any other capacity (for example,
the use or disclosure of information about a person in that person’s capacity
as an officer of the company).

########### Offence of failing to comply with regulations under section 

48.6.120B

48.6.120B.1

If a company contravenes a restriction on the use or disclosure of information
imposed by virtue of regulations under section  120A , an offence is committed
by—

48.6.120B.1.a

the company, and

48.6.120B.1.b

every officer of the company who is in default.

48.6.120B.2

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction—

48.6.120B.2.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

48.6.120B.2.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine not
exceeding one-tenth of level 5 on the standard scale.

48.7

In section 1087 (material not available for public inspection), in subsection
(1), after paragraph (a) insert—

48.7.aa

any application or other document delivered to the registrar under regulations
under section  120A  (protection of individual membership information);

.

##### Register of members: removal of option to use central register

49

49.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

49.2

Omit the following (which allow companies to keep information on the central
register instead of entering it in their local register of members)—

49.2.a

section 112A;

49.2.b

Chapter 2A of Part 8.

49.3

After section 128 insert—

########### Transitional provision where information kept on central register

49.3.128ZA

49.3.128ZA.1

Where an election is made under section 128B (option to keep information on
central register) at any time before the repeal of that section by the
Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023—

49.3.128ZA.1.a

the company must enter in its register of members all of the information that
it would have had to enter in that register if the election had never been
made (but see subsection  (2) ), and

49.3.128ZA.1.b

the duty imposed by paragraph (a) is to be treated as having been imposed by
the provision which would have required the information to be entered on the
register if the election had never been made.

49.3.128ZA.2

Where, by virtue of section 128E(3)(a), (b) or (c), information delivered to
the registrar while the election was in force did not include a date that, but
for the election, the company would have had to enter in its register of
members (a “relevant date”), the relevant date is to be treated as being the
date recorded by the registrar under section 1081(1A).

49.4

Schedule 1 contains consequential amendments.

##### Membership information: one-off statement

50

50.1

This section applies in relation to a traded company, or a non-traded company,
registered under the Companies Act 2006 before the appointed day.

50.2

On the first occasion on which the company delivers a confirmation statement
with a confirmation date that is after the appointed day it must, at the same
time, deliver to the registrar the relevant membership information.

50.3

For this purpose “ the relevant membership information ” means—

50.3.a

in relation to a traded company—

50.3.a.i

the name and address (as they appear in the company’s register of members) of
each person who, at the end of the confirmation date, held at least 5% of the
issued shares of any class of the company, and

50.3.a.ii

the number of shares of each class held by each such person at that time;

50.3.b

in relation to a non-traded company—

50.3.b.i

the name (as it appears in the company’s register of members) of every person
who was a member of the company at the end of the confirmation date, and

50.3.b.ii

the number of shares of each class held at the end of the confirmation date by
each person who was a member of the company at that time.

50.4

Section 853A(1)(b)(ii) of the Companies Act 2006 (as substituted by section 59
of this Act) has effect as if it included a reference to the duty imposed by
subsection  (2)  (and section 853L of that Act applies accordingly).

50.5

In this section—

“ confirmation statement ” has the meaning given by section 853A(1)(b) of the
Companies Act 2006; “ non-traded company ” has the meaning given by section
853F(2) of that Act; “ the appointed day ” means such day as the Secretary of
State may by regulations appoint for the purposes of this section; “ traded
company ” has the meaning given by section 853G(2) and (3) of that Act.

50.6

Other expressions used in this section have the same meaning as in Part 24 of
the Companies Act 2006.

#### Registration of directors, secretaries and persons with significant control

##### Abolition of local registers etc

51

51.1

Schedule 2 contains amendments to abolish requirements imposed on a company to
keep its own—

51.1.a

register of directors;

51.1.b

register of directors’ residential addresses;

51.1.c

register of secretaries;

51.1.d

register of people with significant control (sometimes referred to as a PSC
register).

51.2

It also contains related amendments requiring information to be provided to
the registrar of companies.

##### Protection of date of birth information

52

52.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

52.2

In section 1087 (material not available for public inspection), for paragraph
(da) substitute—

52.2.da

relevant date of birth information that section  1087A  provides is not to be
made available for public inspection;

.

52.3

For sections 1087A and 1087B substitute—

########### Protection of date of birth information

52.3.1087A

52.3.1087A.1

The registrar must not make available for public inspection—

52.3.1087A.1.a

so much of any document delivered to the registrar as is required to contain
relevant date of birth information;

52.3.1087A.1.b

any record of the information contained in part of a document that is
unavailable because of paragraph  (a) .

52.3.1087A.2

This section has limited application in relation to documents delivered before
it comes fully into force: see section  1087B .

52.3.1087A.3

“ Relevant date of birth information ” means—

52.3.1087A.3.a

information as to the day of the month (but not the month or year) on which a
director (or proposed director) was born;

52.3.1087A.3.b

information as to the day of the month (but not the month or year) on which a
registrable person in relation to the company was born.

52.3.1087A.4

Information about a director (or proposed director) or registrable person does
not cease to be relevant date of birth information when they cease to be a
director (or proposed director) or registrable person.

52.3.1087A.5

Subsection  (1)(b)  does not affect the availability for public inspection of
the same information contained in material derived from a part of a document
that was not required to contain the information.

52.3.1087A.6

In this section “ registrable person ”, in relation to a company, has the
meaning given by section 790C(4).

########### Protection of date of birth information in old documents

52.3.1087B

52.3.1087B.1

This section limits the extent to which section  1087A  applies in relation to
documents delivered to the registrar before that section comes fully into
force (“old documents”).

52.3.1087B.2

Section  1087A  does not apply in relation to any old documents registered
before 10 October 2015.

52.3.1087B.3

Section  1087A  does not apply in relation to any old document that is—

52.3.1087B.3.a

a statement of a company’s proposed officers delivered under section 9 in
circumstances where the subscribers gave notice of election under section 167A
(election to keep information on central register) in respect of the company’s
register of directors when the statement was delivered;

52.3.1087B.3.b

a document delivered by the company under section 167D (duty to notify
registrar of changes while election in force);

52.3.1087B.3.c

a statement of initial significant control delivered under section 9 in
circumstances where the subscribers gave notice of election under section 790X
in respect of the company when the statement was delivered;

52.3.1087B.3.d

a document containing a statement or updated statement delivered by the
company under section 790X(6)(b) or (7) (statement accompanying notice of
election made after incorporation);

52.3.1087B.3.e

a document delivered by the company under section 790ZA (duty to notify
registrar of changes while election in force).

52.3.1087B.4

Section  1087A  does not apply in relation to any old document if—

52.3.1087B.4.a

the document is—

52.3.1087B.4.a.i

a statement of proposed officers delivered under section 9, or

52.3.1087B.4.a.ii

notice given under section 167 of a person having become a director of the
company,

52.3.1087B.4.b

after the delivery of the document an election was made under section 167A in
respect of the company’s register of directors, and

52.3.1087B.4.c

the relevant date of birth information relates to a person who was a director
of the company when that election took effect.

52.3.1087B.5

References in subsections  (3)(a)  to  (e)  and  (4)(a)  to  (c)  to a
provision of this Act are to the provision as it had effect at the time at
which the document was delivered (the provisions in question were repealed by
the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023).

########### Disclosure of date of birth information

52.3.1087C

52.3.1087C.1

The registrar must not disclose relevant date of birth information except—

52.3.1087C.1.a

in accordance with subsection (2) or (3), or

52.3.1087C.1.b

as permitted by section  1110F  (general powers of disclosure by the
registrar).

52.3.1087C.2

The registrar may disclose relevant date of birth information if the
information is made available for public inspection.

52.3.1087C.3

The registrar may disclose relevant date of birth information to a credit
reference agency (as defined by section 243(7)).

52.3.1087C.4

Subsections (3) to (8) of section 243 (permitted disclosure of address
information by the registrar) apply for the purposes of subsection (3) as for
the purposes of that section (reading references there to protected
information as references to relevant date of birth information).

52.3.1087C.5

In this section “ relevant date of birth information ” has the meaning given
by section  1087A (3) .

#### Accounts and reports

##### Filing obligations of micro-entities

53

Before section 444 of the Companies Act 2006 (but after the italic heading
before that section) insert—

######### Filing obligations of micro-entities

53.443A

53.443A.1

The directors of a company that qualifies as a micro-entity in relation to a
financial year, or that would do so but for being or having been a member of
an ineligible group—

53.443A.1.a

must deliver to the registrar a copy of the company’s annual accounts, and

53.443A.1.b

may also deliver to the registrar a copy of the directors’ report.

53.443A.2

The directors must also deliver to the registrar a copy of the auditor’s
report on those accounts (and any directors’ report).

This does not apply if the company is exempt from audit and the directors have
taken advantage of that exemption.

53.443A.3

The copies of the balance sheet and any directors’ report delivered to the
registrar under this section must state the name of the person who signed it
on behalf of the board.

53.443A.4

The copy of the auditor’s report delivered to the registrar under this section
must—

53.443A.4.a

state the name of the auditor and (where the auditor is a firm) the name of
the person who signed it as senior statutory auditor, or

53.443A.4.b

if the conditions in section 506 (circumstances in which names may be omitted)
are met, state that a resolution has been passed and notified to the Secretary
of State in accordance with that section.

53.443A.5

If more than one person is appointed as auditor, the reference in subsection
(4)(a)  to the name of the auditor is to be read as a reference to the names
of all the auditors.

##### Filing obligations of small companies other than micro-entities

54

For section 444 of the Companies Act 2006 substitute—

######### Filing obligations of small companies other than micro-entities

54.444

54.444.1

The directors of a company that is subject to the small companies regime in
relation to a financial year, or that would be so subject but for being or
having been a member of an ineligible group, must deliver to the registrar a
copy of—

54.444.1.a

the company’s annual accounts, and

54.444.1.b

the directors’ report.

54.444.2

The directors must also deliver to the registrar a copy of the auditor’s
report on those accounts (and on the directors’ report).

This does not apply if the company is exempt from audit and the directors have
taken advantage of that exemption.

54.444.3

The copies of the balance sheet and directors’ report delivered to the
registrar under this section must state the name of the person who signed it
on behalf of the board.

54.444.4

The copy of the auditor’s report delivered to the registrar under this section
must—

54.444.4.a

state the name of the auditor and (where the auditor is a firm) the name of
the person who signed it as senior statutory auditor, or

54.444.4.b

if the conditions in section 506 (circumstances in which names may be omitted)
are met, state that a resolution has been passed and notified to the Secretary
of State in accordance with that section.

54.444.5

If more than one person is appointed as auditor, the reference in subsection
(4)(a)  to the name of the auditor is to be read as a reference to the names
of all the auditors.

54.444.6

This section does not apply to companies within section 443A (filing
obligations of companies that qualify as micro-entities).

##### Sections 53 and 54: consequential amendments

55

55.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

55.2

In section 415A (directors’ report: small companies exemption), for subsection
(2) substitute—

55.2.2

The exemption is relevant to section 416(3) (contents of report: statement of
amount recommended by way of dividend).

55.3

In section 441 (duty to file accounts and reports with the registrar), in
subsection (1)—

55.3.a

at the appropriate place insert—

section  443A  (filing obligations of micro-entities),

;

55.3.b

for “companies subject to small companies regime” substitute  “small companies
other than micro-entities” ;

55.3.c

omit the entry for section 444A.

55.4

Omit section 444A (filing obligations of companies entitled to small companies
exemption in relation to directors’ report).

55.5

In section 445 (filing obligations of medium-sized companies), for subsection
(7) substitute—

55.5.7

This section does not apply to companies within—

55.5.7.a

section  443A  (filing obligations of micro-entities), or

55.5.7.b

section  444  (filing obligations of small companies other than micro-
entities).

55.6

In section 446 (filing obligations of unquoted companies), for subsection (5),
substitute—

55.6.5

This section does not apply to companies within—

55.6.5.a

section  443A  (filing obligations of micro-entities),

55.6.5.b

section  444  (filing obligations of small companies other than micro-
entities), or

55.6.5.c

section 445 (filing obligations of medium-sized companies).

55.7

In section 473 (parliamentary procedure for certain regulations under this
Part), in subsection (1), omit the entry in the list for section 444.

##### Use or disclosure of profit and loss accounts for certain companies

56

56.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

56.2

After section 468 insert—

########### Use or disclosure of profit and loss accounts for certain companies

56.2.468A

56.2.468A.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision requiring the
registrar, on application or otherwise—

56.2.468A.1.a

not to make available for public inspection profit and loss accounts, or parts
of them, delivered to the registrar under—

section 443A (micro-entities), or section 444 (other small companies);

56.2.468A.1.b

to refrain from disclosing such accounts, or parts of them, except in
specified circumstances.

56.2.468A.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  which provide for the making of an
application may make provision as to—

56.2.468A.2.a

who may make an application;

56.2.468A.2.b

the grounds on which an application may be made;

56.2.468A.2.c

the information to be included in and documents to accompany an application;

56.2.468A.2.d

the notice to be given of an application and of its outcome;

56.2.468A.2.e

how an application is to be determined;

56.2.468A.2.f

the duration of, and procedures for revoking, any restrictions on the making
of information available for public inspection or its disclosure.

56.2.468A.3

Provision under subsection  (2)(e)  or  (f)  may in particular provide for a
question to be referred to a person other than the registrar for the purposes
of determining the application or revoking the restrictions.

56.2.468A.4

The circumstances that may be specified under subsection  (1)(b)  by way of an
exception to a restriction on disclosure include circumstances where the court
has made an order, in accordance with the regulations, authorising disclosure.

56.2.468A.5

Regulations under subsection (1)(b) may not require the registrar to refrain
from disclosing information under section 1110F (general powers of disclosure
by the registrar).

56.2.468A.6

Regulations under this section may in particular confer a discretion on the
registrar.

56.2.468A.7

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

56.3

In section 1087 (material not available for public inspection), in subsection
(1), after paragraph (bb) insert—

56.3.bba

the following—

56.3.bba.i

any application or other document delivered to the registrar under regulations
under section  468A  (regulations protecting profit and loss accounts for
certain companies);

56.3.bba.ii

any information which regulations under section  468A  require not to be made
available for public inspection;

.

##### Statements about exemption from audit requirements

57

In section 475 of the Companies Act 2006 (requirement for audited accounts),
for subsection (2) substitute—

57.2

A company is not entitled to any such exemption unless its balance sheet
contains a statement by the directors—

57.2.a

identifying the exemption in question, and

57.2.b

confirming that the company qualifies for the exemption.

##### Removal of option to abridge Companies Act accounts

58

58.1

Schedule 1 to the Small Companies and Groups (Accounts and Directors’ Report)
Regulations 2008 ( S.I. 2008/409 ) (Companies Act individual accounts) is
amended as follows.

58.2

In paragraph 1(3), omit “Subject to paragraph 1A”.

58.3

Omit paragraph 1A (abridged accounts).

58.4

In paragraph 1B(2), omit “, otherwise than pursuant to paragraph 1A(2),”.

58.5

In paragraph 1C, omit—

58.5.a

“abridgment or”;

58.5.b

“1A or”.

#### Confirmation statements

##### Confirmation statements

59

59.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

59.2

In section 853A (duty to deliver confirmation statements)—

59.2.a

in subsection (1), for paragraph (b) substitute—

59.2.a.b

a statement (a “confirmation statement”) confirming—

59.2.a.b.i

that the company has delivered to the registrar, or is delivering to the
registrar at the same time as the confirmation statement, all of the
information that it is required to deliver in relation to the confirmation
period concerned under any duty to notify a relevant event (see section 853B),

59.2.a.b.ii

that the company is delivering to the registrar at the same time as the
confirmation statement any information that it is required to deliver by
virtue of a duty imposed by any of sections  853BA  to 853H, and

59.2.a.b.iii

in the case of a company’s first statement under this paragraph, that the
company has delivered to the registrar, or is delivering to the registrar at
the same time as the confirmation statement, any information that it is
required to deliver under section  167I ,  279I  or  790LG  (pre-incorporation
changes).

;

59.2.b

omit subsection (2);

59.2.c

for subsections (7) and (8), substitute—

59.2.c.7

For the purpose of making a confirmation statement a company is entitled to
assume that information that has been delivered to the registrar has been
properly delivered unless the registrar has notified the company otherwise.

59.3

In section 853K (confirmation statements: power to make further provision by
regulations), in subsection (3), for “section 853A(2)” substitute  “section
853A(1) (b) ” .

##### Duty to confirm lawful purposes

60

After section 853B of the Companies Act 2006 insert—

######### Duty to confirm lawful purpose

60.853BA

Where a company makes a confirmation statement it must at the same time
deliver to the registrar a statement that the intended future activities of
the company are lawful.

##### Duty to notify a change in company’s principal business activities

61

In section 853C of the Companies Act 2006 (duty to notify a change in
company’s principal business activities), after subsection (1) insert—

61.1A

This section also applies where—

61.1A.a

a company makes its first confirmation statement, and

61.1A.b

by the time of its incorporation, the company’s principal business activities
had changed from those specified in the statement under section 9(5)(c).

##### Duty to deliver information about exemption from Part 21A

62

In section 853H of the Companies Act 2006 (duty to deliver information about
exemption from Part 21A), after subsection (2) insert—

62.2A

The statement under subsection (2) must specify—

62.2A.a

whether the company falls within the description specified in section
790B(1)(a) or a description specified in regulations under section 790B(1)(b),
and

62.2A.b

if it falls within a description specified in regulations under section
790B(1)(b), what that description is.

##### Confirmation statements: offences

63

63.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

63.2

In section 853J (power to amend duties to deliver certain information), in
subsection (4)(a)—

63.2.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (i) insert  “and” ;

63.2.b

for sub-paragraphs (ii) to (iv) substitute—

63.2.b.ii

every officer of the company who is in default;

.

63.3

In section 853L (failure to deliver confirmation statement)—

63.3.a

in subsection (1)—

63.3.a.i

at the end of paragraph (a) insert  “and” ;

63.3.a.ii

for paragraphs (b) to (d) substitute—

63.3.a.ii.b

every officer of the company who is in default.

;

63.3.b

omit subsection (4).

#### Identity verification

##### Identity verification of persons with significant control

64

64.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

64.2

In section 790J (power to make exemptions), in subsection (2)(e), after “
790LH ” (inserted by Schedule 2 to this Act) insert  “and  790LM  to  790LS ”
.

64.3

After section  790LL  (inserted by Schedule 2 to this Act) insert—

########### Identity verification obligations for persons with significant control

############ Initial identity verification: registrable persons

64.3.790LM

64.3.790LM.1

This section applies in the following cases.

Case 1 is where— a company is incorporated in pursuance of an application for
registration containing a statement under section 12A(1)(a) naming a person as
someone who will, on the company’s incorporation, become a registrable person
(“the registrable person”), the application does not include a statement under
section  12B (2)  in respect of the registrable person or it appears to the
registrar that the statement is false, and the company has not given a notice
under section  790LG (1)  in respect of the person. Case 2 is where— the
registrar is notified under section  790LF  that a person has become a
registrable person in relation to a company (“the registrable person”), and
the notice does not include a statement under section  790LB (1)  or it
appears to the registrar that the statement is false.

64.3.790LM.2

The registrar must direct the registrable person to deliver to the registrar,
within the period of 14 days beginning with the date of the direction, a
statement confirming that the person’s identity is verified (see section
1110A).

64.3.790LM.3

The registrar may by further direction extend that period by up to 14 days at
a time.

64.3.790LM.4

A direction under this section must be in writing.

64.3.790LM.5

A direction given to a person under this section lapses if notice is later
given under section  790LG (1)  in respect of that person.

64.3.790LM.6

In this section “ registrable person ” does not include a person mentioned in
section 790C(12)(a) to (d).

############ Initial identity verification for registrable persons: transitional cases

64.3.790LN

64.3.790LN.1

A person must deliver to the registrar the statement required by this section
if the person—

64.3.790LN.1.a

is a registrable person in relation to a company at any time during the
appointed day, and

64.3.790LN.1.b

either—

64.3.790LN.1.b.i

became a registrable person on the incorporation of the company in pursuance
of an application for registration delivered before section  12B (2)  came
fully into force, or

64.3.790LN.1.b.ii

became a registrable person, otherwise than on the incorporation of the
company, before the day on which section  790LB (1)  came fully into force.

64.3.790LN.2

The statement required by this section is a statement confirming that person’s
identity is verified (see section 1110A).

64.3.790LN.3

A statement required by this section must be delivered within the period of 14
days beginning with the appointed day.

64.3.790LN.4

But the registrar may by direction in writing extend that period by up to 14
days at a time.

64.3.790LN.5

In this section—

“ the appointed day ” means such day as the Secretary of State may by
regulations appoint for the purposes of this section; “ registrable person ”
does not include a person mentioned in section 790C(12)(a) to (d).

64.3.790LN.6

The appointed day must not be before sections  12B (2)  and  790LB (1)  have
been brought fully into force.

############ Initial identity verification: registrable relevant legal entities

64.3.790LO

64.3.790LO.1

This section applies in the following cases.

Case 1 is where— a company is incorporated in pursuance of an application for
registration containing a statement under section 12A(1)(a) naming a person as
a person who will, on the company’s incorporation become a registrable
relevant legal entity (“the entity”), the application does not include a
statement under section  12B (3)  in respect of the entity, or is not
accompanied by a statement under section  12B (4)  by the person whose name is
specified in the statement under section  12B (3) , or it appears to the
registrar that either statement is false, and the company has not given a
notice under section  790LG (1)  in respect of the entity. Case 2 is where—
the registrar is notified under section 790LA that a person has become a
registrable relevant legal entity in relation to a company (“the entity”), and
the notice does not include a statement under section  790LB (2) , or it is
not accompanied by a statement under section  790LB (3) , or it appears to the
registrar that either statement is false.

64.3.790LO.2

The registrar must direct the entity to deliver to the registrar, within the
period of 28 days beginning with the date of the direction—

64.3.790LO.2.a

a statement by the entity that—

64.3.790LO.2.a.i

specifies the name of one of its relevant officers who is an individual and
whose identity is verified, and

64.3.790LO.2.a.ii

confirms that the individual’s identity is verified, and

64.3.790LO.2.b

a statement by the individual confirming that the individual is a relevant
officer of the entity.

64.3.790LO.3

The registrar may by further direction extend that period by up to 28 days at
a time.

64.3.790LO.4

A direction under this section must be in writing.

64.3.790LO.5

A direction given to an entity under this section lapses if notice is later
given under section  790LG (1)  in respect of that entity.

64.3.790LO.6

In subsection  (2)  “relevant officer”—

64.3.790LO.6.a

in relation to a company, means a director;

64.3.790LO.6.b

in relation to a legal entity the affairs of which are managed by its members,
means one of those members;

64.3.790LO.6.c

in relation to any other legal entity, means an officer of the entity whose
functions correspond to that of a director of a company.

############ Initial identity verification in respect of registrable relevant legal entities: transitional cases

64.3.790LP

64.3.790LP.1

A person must deliver to the registrar the statements required by this section
if the person—

64.3.790LP.1.a

is a registrable relevant legal entity in relation to a company at any time
during the appointed day, and

64.3.790LP.1.b

either—

64.3.790LP.1.b.i

became a registrable relevant legal entity on the incorporation of the company
in pursuance of an application for registration delivered before section  12B
(3)  and  (4)  came fully into force, or

64.3.790LP.1.b.ii

became a registrable relevant legal entity, otherwise than on the
incorporation of the company, before section  790LB (2)  and  (3)  came fully
into force.

64.3.790LP.2

The statements are—

64.3.790LP.2.a

a statement by the entity that—

64.3.790LP.2.a.i

specifies the name of one of its relevant officers who is an individual and
whose identity is verified, and

64.3.790LP.2.a.ii

confirms that the individual’s identity is verified, and

64.3.790LP.2.b

a statement by the individual confirming that the individual is a relevant
officer of the entity.

64.3.790LP.3

The statements required by this section must be delivered within the period of
28 days beginning with the appointed day.

64.3.790LP.4

But the registrar may by direction in writing extend that period by up to 28
days at a time.

64.3.790LP.5

In this section—

“ the appointed day ” means such day as the Secretary of State may by
regulations appoint for the purposes of this section; “ relevant officer ” has
the meaning given by section  790LO (6) .

64.3.790LP.6

The appointed day must not be before sections  12B (3)  and  (4)  and  790LB
(2)  and  (3)  have been brought fully into force.

############ Registrable persons: duty to maintain verified identity status

64.3.790LQ

64.3.790LQ.1

A registrable person in relation to a company must ensure that, throughout the
relevant period, they maintain the status of a person whose identity is
verified (see section 1110A).

64.3.790LQ.2

In this section “ the relevant period ” means the period—

64.3.790LQ.2.a

beginning with—

64.3.790LQ.2.a.i

the incorporation of the company, in a case where the person became a
registrable person on its incorporation and the application for registration
of the company included a statement under section  12B (2)  in respect of the
person,

64.3.790LQ.2.a.ii

the delivery to the registrar of a statement in respect of the person under
section  790LB (1) , in a case where the person became a registrable person
after the incorporation of the company and such a statement was delivered to
the registrar,

64.3.790LQ.2.a.iii

the expiry of the period for complying with the direction under section  790LM
, in a case where a direction under that section is given to the person, and

64.3.790LQ.2.a.iv

the expiry of the period for complying with section  790LN , in a case where
that section applies to the person, and

64.3.790LQ.2.b

ending on the giving of a notice to the registrar under section  790LF  that
the person has ceased to be a registrable person in relation to the company.

64.3.790LQ.3

In this section “ registrable person ” does not include a person mentioned in
section 790C(12)(a) to (d).

############ Registrable relevant legal entities: duty to maintain registered officer whose identity is verified

64.3.790LR

64.3.790LR.1

A registrable relevant legal entity in relation to a company must ensure that,
throughout the relevant period, its registered officer—

64.3.790LR.1.a

is a relevant officer of the entity, and

64.3.790LR.1.b

is an individual whose identity is verified (see section 1110A).

64.3.790LR.2

In this section “ registered officer ”, in relation to a registrable relevant
legal entity, means—

64.3.790LR.2.a

the person whose name is specified in—

64.3.790LR.2.a.i

a statement delivered to the registrar in respect of the entity under section
12B (3)  or  790LB (2) ,

64.3.790LR.2.a.ii

a statement delivered to the registrar by the entity in pursuance of a
direction under section  790LO (2) , or

64.3.790LR.2.a.iii

a statement delivered to the registrar under section  790LP (2) ,

unless the entity has changed its registered officer under section  790LS , or

64.3.790LR.2.b

if the entity has changed its registered officer under section  790LS , the
person specified in the latest notice under that section.

64.3.790LR.3

In this section “ the relevant period ” means the period—

64.3.790LR.3.a

beginning with—

64.3.790LR.3.a.i

the incorporation of the company, in a case where the entity became a relevant
registrable legal entity on the incorporation of the company and the
application for registration of the company included a statement under section
12B (3)  in respect of the entity,

64.3.790LR.3.a.ii

the delivery to the registrar of a statement in respect of the registrable
relevant legal entity under section  790LB (2) , in a case where the entity
became a relevant registrable legal entity after the incorporation of the
company and such a statement was delivered to the registrar,

64.3.790LR.3.a.iii

the expiry of the period for complying with the direction  790LO , in a case
where the entity is given a direction under that section, and

64.3.790LR.3.a.iv

the expiry of the period for complying with section  790LP , where that
section applies to the entity, and

64.3.790LR.3.b

ending with the giving of a notice to the registrar under section  790LF  that
the entity has ceased to be a relevant registrable legal entity in relation to
the company,

but see subsection  (4) .

64.3.790LR.4

If the registered officer of a registrable relevant legal entity ceases to be
a relevant officer of that entity, “ the relevant period ” does not include
the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which the person so ceases.

64.3.790LR.5

In this section “ relevant officer ” has the meaning given by section  790LO
(6) .

############ Registrable relevant legal entities: change of registered relevant officer

64.3.790LS

64.3.790LS.1

A registrable relevant legal entity may change its registered officer for the
purposes of section  790LR  by giving notice to the registrar.

64.3.790LS.2

The notice must include a statement by the entity that the new registered
officer—

64.3.790LS.2.a

is a relevant officer of the entity, and

64.3.790LS.2.b

is an individual whose identity is verified (see section 1110A).

64.3.790LS.3

The notice must be accompanied by a statement by the individual who is the new
registered officer confirming that the individual is a relevant officer of the
registrable relevant legal entity.

64.3.790LS.4

In this section “ relevant officer ” has the meaning given by section  790LO
(6) .

############ Offence of failing to comply with sections 

64.3.790LT

64.3.790LT.1

It is an offence for a person to fail, without reasonable excuse, to comply
with—

64.3.790LT.1.a

any of the following sections—

section  790LN ; section  790LP ; section  790LQ ; section  790LR ;

64.3.790LT.1.b

a direction under section  790LM  or  790LO .

64.3.790LT.2

Where an offence under this section is committed by a registrable relevant
legal entity, every officer of the entity who is in default also commits the
offence.

64.3.790LT.3

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction—

64.3.790LT.3.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

64.3.790LT.3.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine not
exceeding one-tenth of level 5 on the standard scale.

##### Procedure etc for verifying identity

65

65.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

65.2

In section 1059A (scheme of Part 35), in subsection (3), at the appropriate
place insert—

sections  1110A  and  1110B  (identity verification),

.

65.3

In section 1087 (material not available for public inspection), in subsection
(1), after paragraph (gb) (inserted by section 66 of this Act) insert—

65.3.gc

any document delivered to the registrar under regulations under section  1110B
;

.

65.4

After section 1110 insert—

########### Identity verification

############ Meaning of “identity is verified”

65.4.1110A

65.4.1110A.1

For the purposes of this Act an individual’s “identity is verified” if—

65.4.1110A.1.a

the individual’s identity has been verified by the registrar in accordance
with regulations under section  1110B , or

65.4.1110A.1.b

a verification statement in respect of the individual has been delivered to
the registrar,

and the individual has not, since then, ceased to be an individual whose
identity is verified by virtue of regulations under subsection  (6) .

65.4.1110A.2

A verification statement is a statement by an authorised corporate service
provider confirming that it has verified an individual’s identity in
accordance with regulations under section  1110B .

65.4.1110A.3

A verification statement must also specify the authorised corporate service
provider’s supervisory authority or authorities for the purposes of the Money
Laundering Regulations.

65.4.1110A.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations make further provision about the
contents of verification statements (including provision amending this
section).

65.4.1110A.5

Where a person is required or authorised by any other provision to deliver a
statement to the registrar that an individual’s identity is verified, that
statement may be delivered at the same time as the verification statement by
virtue of which the individual becomes someone whose identity is verified
under subsection  (1)(b) .

65.4.1110A.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide for circumstances in which
someone ceases to be an individual whose identity is verified.

65.4.1110A.7

The provision that can be made under subsection  (6)  includes—

65.4.1110A.7.a

provision to confer a discretion on the registrar;

65.4.1110A.7.b

provision that someone ceases to be an individual whose identity is verified
unless, within a specified period of time—

65.4.1110A.7.b.i

their identity is reverified by the registrar in accordance with regulations
under section  1110B , or

65.4.1110A.7.b.ii

an authorised corporate service provider delivers to the registrar a
statement: (A) confirming that it has reverified the individual’s identity in
accordance with regulations under section  1110B , (B) specifying the
authorised corporate service provider’s supervisory authority or authorities
for the purposes of the Money Laundering Regulations, and (C) containing
anything else required by the regulations.

65.4.1110A.8

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

65.4.1110A.9

In this section—

“ Money Laundering Regulations ” means the Money Laundering, Terrorist
Financing and Transfer of Funds (Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017 (
S.I. 2017/692 ); “ supervisory authority ” means an authority that is a
supervisory authority under the Money Laundering Regulations (see regulation 7
of those Regulations).

############ Verification requirements

65.4.1110B

65.4.1110B.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for and in connection
with verification or reverification of an individual’s identity for the
purposes of this Act by the registrar or by an authorised corporate service
provider.

65.4.1110B.2

The regulations may, in particular, make provision about—

65.4.1110B.2.a

the procedure for verifying or reverifying an individual’s identity, including
the evidence required;

65.4.1110B.2.b

the records that a person who is or has been an authorised corporate service
provider is required to keep in connection with the verification or
reverification of an individual’s identity.

65.4.1110B.3

The regulations may create offences in relation to failures to comply with
requirements imposed by virtue of subsection  (2)(b) .

65.4.1110B.4

The regulations must provide for any such offence to be punishable—

65.4.1110B.4.a

on conviction on indictment, by imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both);

65.4.1110B.4.b

on summary conviction—

65.4.1110B.4.b.i

in England and Wales, by imprisonment for a term not exceeding the general
limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

65.4.1110B.4.b.ii

in Scotland, by imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or a fine not
exceeding the statutory maximum (or both) and, for continued contravention, a
daily default fine not exceeding one-fifth of the statutory maximum;

65.4.1110B.4.b.iii

in Northern Ireland, by imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a
fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both) and, for continued
contravention, a daily default fine not exceeding one-fifth of the statutory
maximum.

65.4.1110B.5

The provision that can be made in regulations under this section includes
provision conferring a discretion on the registrar, including provision
conferring power to impose requirements by registrar’s rules.

65.4.1110B.6

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

65.5

In Schedule 8 (index of defined expressions), at the appropriate place insert—

identity is verified section  1110A

.

##### Authorisation of corporate service providers

66

66.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

66.2

In section 1059A (scheme of Part 35), in subsection (3), at the appropriate
place insert—

sections  1098A  to  1098H  (authorised corporate service providers),

.

66.3

In section 1087 (material not available for public inspection), in subsection
(1), after paragraph (ga) insert—

66.3.gb

any application or other document delivered to the registrar under section
1098B ,  1098D  or  1098E  or regulations under section  1098G  (authorised
corporate service providers);

.

66.4

After section 1098 insert—

########### Authorised corporate service providers

############ Meaning of “authorised corporate service provider”

66.4.1098A

In this Act “ authorised corporate service provider ” means a person—

66.4.1098A.a

whose application to the registrar to become an authorised corporate service
provider for the purposes of this Act has been granted (see section  1098B ),

66.4.1098A.b

who has not since ceased to be an authorised corporate service provider by
virtue of section  1098F , and

66.4.1098A.c

whose status as an authorised corporate service provider is not for the time
being suspended by virtue of section  1098F .

############ Application to become authorised corporate service provider

66.4.1098B

66.4.1098B.1

A person may apply to the registrar to become an authorised corporate service
provider for the purposes of this Act if—

66.4.1098B.1.a

the person is a relevant person as defined by regulation 8(1) of the Money
Laundering Regulations,

66.4.1098B.1.b

in the case of an individual, their identity is verified (see section  1110A
), and

66.4.1098B.1.c

the person meets any other requirements imposed by regulations made by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this paragraph.

66.4.1098B.2

An application under this section must contain—

66.4.1098B.2.a

the name of the applicant’s supervisory authority or authorities for the
purposes of the Money Laundering Regulations,

66.4.1098B.2.b

the required information about the applicant (see section  1098C ), and

66.4.1098B.2.c

in the case of an application by an individual, a statement that the
individual’s identity is verified (see section 1110A).

(See also section  1098D , which imposes restrictions on who may deliver an
application under this section on behalf of a firm.)

66.4.1098B.3

Where an application is made under this section, the registrar must check with
the supervisory authority, or at least one of the supervisory authorities,
specified in the application, to find out whether the applicant is known to
and supervised by that authority.

66.4.1098B.4

Having carried out that check, the registrar must grant the application if—

66.4.1098B.4.a

the supervisory authority, or at least one of the supervisory authorities,
specified in the application has confirmed that the applicant is known to and
supervised by that authority,

66.4.1098B.4.b

where the applicant is an individual, the registrar is satisfied that their
identity is verified (see section  1110A ),

66.4.1098B.4.c

any other conditions that may be specified by regulations made by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this paragraph are met, and

66.4.1098B.4.d

the registrar is not required by subsection  (5)  to refuse the application.

66.4.1098B.5

The registrar must refuse the application if it appears to the registrar that
the applicant is not a fit and proper person to carry out the functions of an
authorised corporate service provider.

66.4.1098B.6

The provision that can be made in regulations under subsection  (4)(c)
includes provision conferring a discretion on the registrar.

66.4.1098B.7

Regulations under subsection  (1)(c)  or  (4)(c)  are subject to affirmative
resolution procedure.

66.4.1098B.8

For the purposes of this section—

“ Money Laundering Regulations ” means the Money Laundering, Terrorist
Financing and Transfer of Funds (Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017 (
S.I. 2017/692 ); “supervised”: a person is supervised by a supervisory
authority if regulation 7(1) of the Money Laundering Regulations provides that
it is a supervisory authority for that person; “ supervisory authority ” means
an authority that is a supervisory authority under the Money Laundering
Regulations (see regulation 7 of those Regulations).

############ The required information about an applicant

66.4.1098C

66.4.1098C.1

The “required information” about the applicant, in the case of a firm that is
applying to become an authorised corporate service provider, means—

66.4.1098C.1.a

firm name,

66.4.1098C.1.b

principal office,

66.4.1098C.1.c

a service address,

66.4.1098C.1.d

an email address,

66.4.1098C.1.e

the legal form of the firm and the law by which it is governed, and

66.4.1098C.1.f

if applicable, the register in which it is entered (including details of the
state) and its registration number in that register.

66.4.1098C.2

The “required information” about the applicant, in the case of an individual
who is applying to become an authorised corporate service provider, means—

66.4.1098C.2.a

name, nationality and date of birth,

66.4.1098C.2.b

a service address,

66.4.1098C.2.c

an email address, and

66.4.1098C.2.d

the part of the United Kingdom in which the person is usually resident or, if
the person is usually resident in a country or state outside the United
Kingdom, that country or state.

66.4.1098C.3

In subsection  (2)(a)  “ name ” means forename and surname.

66.4.1098C.4

Where the applicant is a peer or an individual usually known by a title, the
requirement for the application to contain their name may be satisfied by
providing that title instead of the individual’s forename and surname.

66.4.1098C.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

66.4.1098C.5.a

amend this section so as to change the required information about the
applicant in the case of a firm or individual applying to become an authorised
corporate service provider;

66.4.1098C.5.b

repeal subsection  (4) .

66.4.1098C.6

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

############ Delivery of applications under section 

66.4.1098D

An application under section  1098B  by a firm mentioned in the first column
of the table—

66.4.1098D.a

must be delivered to the registrar on its behalf by a relevant officer
mentioned in the second column who is an individual (see also section
1067A(2)), and

66.4.1098D.b

must be accompanied by a statement by the individual confirming their status
as a relevant officer of the firm.

Firm Relevant officer company director body corporate other than a company
where the body’s affairs are managed by its members, a member of the body; in
any other case, any officer of the body whose functions correspond to that of
a director of a company. partnership in relation to a limited partnership, a
general partner as defined by section 3 of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907;
in relation to any other partnership, a member of the partnership
unincorporated body other than a partnership where the body’s affairs are
managed by its members, a member of the body; in any other case, a member of
the governing body.

############ Updating duties of authorised corporate service providers

66.4.1098E

66.4.1098E.1

A person who is an authorised corporate service provider must notify the
registrar of any change in its supervisory authority or authorities for the
purposes of the Money Laundering Regulations within the period of 14 days
beginning with the date on which the change occurs.

66.4.1098E.2

Where the change is the result of an agreement under regulation 7(2) of the
Money Laundering Regulations, for the purposes of this section the change is
not to be treated as having occurred until the authority that has agreed to
act notifies the person or publishes the agreement under regulation 7(3).

66.4.1098E.3

A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with this section
commits an offence.

66.4.1098E.4

Where the offence is committed by a firm, every officer of the firm who is in
default also commits the offence.

66.4.1098E.5

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction—

66.4.1098E.5.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

66.4.1098E.5.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine not
exceeding one-tenth of level 5 on the standard scale.

66.4.1098E.6

In this section “Money Laundering Regulations” and “supervisory authority”
have the meanings given by section  1098B (8) .

############ Ceasing to be an authorised corporate service provider

66.4.1098F

66.4.1098F.1

A person ceases to be an authorised corporate service provider if the person
ceases to be a relevant person as defined by regulation 8(1) of the Money
Laundering Regulations.

66.4.1098F.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

66.4.1098F.2.a

provide for other circumstances in which a person ceases to be an authorised
corporate service provider, whether automatically or as a result of a decision
taken by the registrar;

66.4.1098F.2.b

provide for circumstances in which the registrar may suspend a person’s status
as an authorised corporate service provider pending a decision by the
registrar under regulations made by virtue of paragraph  (a) .

66.4.1098F.3

The provision that can be made under subsection  (2)  includes provision as
to—

66.4.1098F.3.a

procedure;

66.4.1098F.3.b

the period of a suspension;

66.4.1098F.3.c

the revocation of a suspension.

66.4.1098F.4

The provision that can be made in regulations under subsection  (2)  includes
provision conferring a discretion on the registrar.

66.4.1098F.5

Regulations under subsection  (2)  are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

66.4.1098F.6

In this section “ Money Laundering Regulations ” has the meaning given by
section  1098B (8) .

############ Power to impose duties to provide information

66.4.1098G

66.4.1098G.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations require a person who is or has been
an authorised corporate service provider to provide information to the
registrar in accordance with the regulations (including information for the
purpose of monitoring compliance with the requirements of this Act).

66.4.1098G.2

The provision that may be made by regulations under subsection  (1)  includes
provision requiring information to be provided on request, on the occurrence
of an event or at regular intervals.

66.4.1098G.3

The circumstances that may be specified under section  1098F (2)  include
failure to comply with a requirement under subsection  (1) .

66.4.1098G.4

Regulations under this section may create offences in relation to failures to
comply with requirements imposed by the regulations.

66.4.1098G.5

The regulations must provide for any such offence to be punishable on summary
conviction—

66.4.1098G.5.a

in England and Wales with a fine;

66.4.1098G.5.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, with a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine not
exceeding one-tenth of level 5 on the standard scale.

66.4.1098G.6

The provision that can be made in regulations under this section includes
provision conferring a discretion on the registrar.

66.4.1098G.7

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

############ Power to enable authorisation of foreign corporate service providers

66.4.1098H

66.4.1098H.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for the purposes of
enabling a person who is subject to a relevant regulatory regime under the law
of a territory outside the United Kingdom to become an authorised corporate
service provider, even if the person is not a relevant person as defined by
regulation 8(1) of the Money Laundering Regulations.

66.4.1098H.2

In subsection  (1)  “ relevant regulatory regime ” means a regulatory regime
that, in the opinion of the Secretary of State, has similar objectives to the
regulatory regime under the Money Laundering Regulations for relevant persons
and is likely to be no less effective in achieving those objectives.

66.4.1098H.3

Regulations under this section—

66.4.1098H.3.a

may amend any of sections  1098B  to  1098G  or insert new sections into this
Act;

66.4.1098H.3.b

may make consequential amendments or repeals in other provisions of this Act.

66.4.1098H.4

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

66.4.1098H.5

In this section “ Money Laundering Regulations ” has the meaning given by
section  1098B (8) .

66.5

In Schedule 8 (index of defined expressions), at the appropriate place insert—

authorised corporate service provider section  1098A

.

##### Exemption from identity verification: national security grounds

67

67.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

67.2

In section 1059A (scheme of Part 35), in subsection (4), at the appropriate
place insert—

section  1110C  (identity verification: exemption on national security
grounds),

.

67.3

After section 1110B (inserted by section 65 of this Act) insert—

########### Identity verification: exemption on national security grounds etc

67.3.1110C

67.3.1110C.1

The Secretary of State may, by written notice given to a person, provide for
one or more of the effects listed in subsection  (2)  to apply in relation to
the person, if satisfied that to do so is necessary—

67.3.1110C.1.a

in the interests of national security, or

67.3.1110C.1.b

for the purposes of preventing or detecting serious crime.

67.3.1110C.2

The effects for which the notice may provide are that—

67.3.1110C.2.a

where a statement of proposed officers names the person as a director, section
12 (2A)  does not require a statement under that subsection to be made in
relation to the person;

67.3.1110C.2.b

section  167G (3)(c)  does not apply in relation to a notice of the person
having become a director;

67.3.1110C.2.c

section  167M (1)  does not apply in relation to the person and section
167M(2) does not impose any obligation on a company in relation to the person;

67.3.1110C.2.d

section  167N (1)  does not apply in relation to the person;

67.3.1110C.2.e

section 1067A does not apply in relation to the delivery of documents to the
registrar by the person on their own behalf or on behalf of another;

67.3.1110C.2.f

section 1098B(2)(c) does not apply in relation to the person.

67.3.1110C.3

For the purposes of subsection  (1)(b) —

67.3.1110C.3.a

“ crime ” means conduct which—

67.3.1110C.3.a.i

constitutes a criminal offence, or

67.3.1110C.3.a.ii

is, or corresponds to, any conduct which, if it all took place in any one part
of the United Kingdom, would constitute a criminal offence, and

67.3.1110C.3.b

crime is “serious” if—

67.3.1110C.3.b.i

the offence which is or would be constituted by the conduct is an offence for
which the maximum sentence (in any part of the United Kingdom) is imprisonment
for 3 years or more, or

67.3.1110C.3.b.ii

the conduct involves the use of violence, results in substantial financial
gain or is conduct by a large number of persons in pursuit of a common
purpose.

##### Allocation of unique identifiers

68

68.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

68.2

In section 1082 (allocation of unique identifiers)—

68.2.a

in subsection (1)—

68.2.a.i

after “may” insert  “by regulations” ;

68.2.a.ii

after “in connection with the register” insert  “or dealings with the
registrar” ;

68.2.a.iii

after paragraph (b) (but before the “or” at the end of that paragraph) insert—

68.2.a.iii.ba

is an authorised corporate service provider;

68.2.a.iii.bb

is an individual whose identity is verified,

;

68.2.b

subsection (2)(c), for “a statement of the person’s name” substitute  “any
statement by or referring to the person” ;

68.2.c

in subsection (2), for paragraph (d) substitute—

68.2.c.d

confer power on the registrar—

68.2.c.d.i

to give a person a new unique identifier;

68.2.c.d.ii

to discontinue the use of a unique identifier for a person who is allocated a
new identifier or who has more than one.

68.3

In section 1087 (material not available for public inspection), after
paragraph (d) insert—

68.3.dza

any statement made in accordance with regulations made by virtue of section
1082(2)(c).

##### Identity verification: material unavailable for public inspection

69

In section 1087 of the Companies Act 2006 (material unavailable for public
inspection), in subsection (1)—

69.a

in the words before paragraph (a), after “not” insert  “, so far as it forms
part of the register,” ;

69.b

after paragraph (gc) (inserted by section 65 of this Act) insert—

69.b.gd

any statement or other document delivered to the registrar by virtue of any of
the following provisions (which relate to identity verification)—

section 12 (2A) ; section  12B (2)  to  (4) ; section  167G (3)(c) ; section
790LB (1)  to  (3) ; section  790LM (2) ; section  790LO (2) ; section  790LS
(1)  to  (3) ; section  1067A ;

.

#### Striking off and restoration to the register

##### Registrar’s power to strike off company registered on false basis

70

70.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

70.2

After section 1002 insert—

########### Registrar’s power to strike off company registered on false basis

############ Power to strike off company registered on false basis

70.2.1002A

70.2.1002A.1

The registrar may strike a company’s name off the register if the registrar
has reasonable cause to believe that—

70.2.1002A.1.a

any information contained in the application for the registration of the
company, or in any application for restoration of the company to the register,
is misleading, false or deceptive in a material particular, or

70.2.1002A.1.b

any statement made to the registrar in connection with such an application is
misleading, false or deceptive in a material particular.

70.2.1002A.2

In subsection  (1)  the reference to an application includes any documents
delivered to the registrar in connection with the application.

70.2.1002A.3

The registrar may not exercise the power in subsection  (1)  unless—

70.2.1002A.3.a

the registrar has published a notice in the Gazette that, at the end of the
period of 28 days beginning with the date of the notice, the name of the
company mentioned in the notice will, unless cause is shown to the contrary,
be struck off the register and the company will be dissolved, and

70.2.1002A.3.b

the period mentioned in paragraph  (a)  has expired.

70.2.1002A.4

If the registrar exercises the power in subsection  (1) , the registrar must
publish a notice in the Gazette of the company’s name having been struck off
the register.

70.2.1002A.5

On the publication of the notice in the Gazette the company is dissolved.

70.2.1002A.6

However—

70.2.1002A.6.a

the liability (if any) of every director, managing officer or member of the
company continues and may be enforced as if the company had not been
dissolved, and

70.2.1002A.6.b

nothing in this section affects the power of the court to wind up a company
the name of which has been struck off the register.

70.3

In section 1024 (application for administrative restoration to the register),
in subsection (1), for the words from “section” to the end substitute

—

70.3.a

section 1000 or 1001 (power of registrar to strike off defunct company), or

70.3.b

section 1002A (power of registrar to strike off company registered on false
basis).

70.4

In section 1025 (requirements for administrative restoration), for subsection
(2) substitute—

70.4.2

The first condition is that—

70.4.2.a

in the case of a company struck off the register under section 1000 or 1001,
the company was carrying on business or in operation at the time of its
striking off;

70.4.2.b

in the case of a company struck off the register under section 1002A, at the
time of its striking off, the registrar did not have reasonable cause to
believe the matter set out in section 1002A(1)(a) or (b).

70.5

In section 1028A (administrative restoration of company with share warrants),
in subsection (1), for “or 1001” substitute  “, 1001 or 1002A” .

70.6

In section 1029 (application to court for restoration to the register), in
subsection (1)(c)—

70.6.a

omit the “or” at the end of sub-paragraph (i);

70.6.b

after that sub-paragraph insert—

70.6.b.ia

under section 1002A (power of registrar to strike off company registered on
false basis), or

.

70.7

In section 1030 (timing for application to court for restoration to the
register), in subsection (5)(a), after “company)” insert  “or section 1002A
(power of registrar to strike off company registered on false basis)” .

70.8

In section 1031 (decision on application for restoration by the court), in
subsection (1)—

70.8.a

after paragraph (a) insert—

70.8.a.aa

if the company was struck off the register under section 1002A (power of
registrar to strike off company registered on false basis) and the court
considers that, at the time of the striking off, the registrar did not have
reasonable cause to believe the matter set out in section 1002A(1)(a) or  (b)
;

;

70.8.b

in paragraph (c), for “other case” substitute  “case (including a case falling
within paragraph (a), (aa) or (b))” .

##### Requirements for administrative restoration

71

In section 1025 of the Companies Act 2006 (requirements for administrative
restoration), for subsection (5) substitute—

71.5

The third condition is that the applicant has delivered to the registrar such
documents relating to the company as are necessary to ensure that if the
company is restored to the register the records kept by the registrar relating
to the company will be up to date.

71.5A

The fourth condition is—

71.5A.a

that any outstanding penalties under section 453 or corresponding earlier
provisions (civil penalty for failure to deliver accounts) in relation to the
company have been paid, and

71.5A.b

that each relevant person has paid any outstanding fines or financial
penalties imposed on them in respect of an offence under the Companies Acts
relating to the company.

71.5B

In subsection  (5A)(b)  “ relevant person ” means—

71.5B.a

the applicant,

71.5B.b

any person who—

71.5B.b.i

was a director of the company immediately before it was dissolved or struck
off, and

71.5B.b.ii

if the company is restored to the register, will be a director immediately
after its restoration, or

71.5B.c

any person who is a relevant officer of a firm where the firm is—

71.5B.c.i

a person mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b), or

71.5B.c.ii

a person falling within this paragraph.

71.5C

In subsection  (5B)(c)  “relevant officer”—

71.5C.a

in relation to a company, means a director;

71.5C.b

in relation to a firm the affairs of which are managed by its members, means
one of those members;

71.5C.c

in relation to any other firm, means an officer of the firm whose functions
correspond to that of a director of a company.

#### Who may deliver documents

##### Delivery of documents: identity verification etc

72

72.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

72.2

In section 9 (registration documents), omit subsection (3).

72.3

In section 1059A (scheme of Part 35), in subsection (2), for “1068” substitute
“ 1067A ” .

72.4

After section 1067 insert—

########### Who may deliver documents to the registrar

############ Delivery of documents: identity verification requirements etc

72.4.1067A

72.4.1067A.1

An individual may not deliver a document to the registrar on their own behalf
unless—

72.4.1067A.1.a

their identity is verified (see section 1110A), and

72.4.1067A.1.b

the document is accompanied by a statement to that effect.

72.4.1067A.2

An individual (A) may not deliver a document to the registrar on behalf of
another person (B) who is of a description specified in column 1 of the
following table unless—

72.4.1067A.2.a

the individual is of a description specified in the corresponding entry in
column 2, and

72.4.1067A.2.b

the document is accompanied by the statement specified in the corresponding
entry in column 3.

1 2 3 Description of person on whose behalf document delivered (B) Description
of individual who may deliver document on B’s behalf (A) Accompanying
statement 1 Firm Individual who is an officer or employee of the firm and
whose identity is verified (see section 1110A). Statement by A— that A is an
officer or employee of the firm, that A is delivering the document on the
firm’s behalf, and that A’s identity is verified. 2 Firm Individual who is an
officer or employee of a corporate officer of the firm and whose identity is
verified. Statement by A— that A is an officer or employee of a corporate
officer of the firm, that A is delivering the document on the firm’s behalf,
and that A’s identity is verified. 3 Firm Individual who is an authorised
corporate service provider (see section 1098A). Statement by A— that A is an
authorised corporate service provider, and that A is delivering the document
on the firm’s behalf. 4 Firm Individual who is an officer or employee of an
authorised corporate service provider. Statement by A— that A is an officer or
employee of an authorised corporate service provider, and that A is delivering
the document on the firm’s behalf. 5 Individual Individual whose identity is
verified. Statement by A— that A is delivering the document on B’s behalf, and
that A’s identity is verified. 6 Individual Individual who is an authorised
corporate service provider. Statement by A— that A is an authorised corporate
service provider, and that A is delivering the document on B’s behalf. 7
Individual Individual who is an officer or employee of an authorised corporate
service provider. Statement by A— that A is an officer or employee of an
authorised corporate service provider, and that A is delivering the document
on B’s behalf.

72.4.1067A.3

In relation to a corporate officer that has only corporate officers, the
reference in row 2 of the table to an individual who is one of its officers is
to—

72.4.1067A.3.a

an individual who is an officer of one of those corporate officers, or

72.4.1067A.3.b

if the officers of those corporate officers are all corporate officers, an
individual who is an officer of any of the corporate officers’ corporate
officers,

and so on until there is at least one individual who is an officer.

72.4.1067A.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

72.4.1067A.4.a

create exceptions to subsections  (1)  or  (2)  (which may be framed by
reference to the person by whom or on whose behalf a document is delivered or
by reference to descriptions of document or in any other way);

72.4.1067A.4.b

amend this section for the purpose of changing the effect of the table in
subsection  (2) .

72.4.1067A.5

Regulations under subsection  (4)(a) —

72.4.1067A.5.a

may require any document delivered to the registrar in reliance on an
exception to be accompanied by a statement;

72.4.1067A.5.b

may amend this section.

72.4.1067A.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision requiring a statement
delivered to the registrar under subsection  (2)  to be accompanied by
additional statements or additional information in connection with the
subject-matter of the statement.

72.4.1067A.7

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

72.4.1067A.8

In this section “ corporate officer ” means an officer that is not an
individual.

##### Disqualification from delivering documents

73

After section  1067A  of the Companies Act 2006 (inserted by section 72 of
this Act) insert—

######### Disqualification from delivering documents

73.1067B

73.1067B.1

An individual who is a disqualified person may not deliver documents to the
registrar on their own behalf or on behalf of another.

73.1067B.2

An individual may not deliver a document to the registrar on behalf of a
disqualified person unless—

73.1067B.2.a

the individual is an authorised corporate service provider (see section  1098A
), or

73.1067B.2.b

the individual is an officer or employee of an authorised corporate service
provider.

73.1067B.3

A document delivered to the registrar must be accompanied by the following two
statements made by the individual delivering it.

73.1067B.4

The first is a statement that the individual is not a disqualified person.

73.1067B.5

The second is—

73.1067B.5.a

a statement that the individual is delivering the document on their own
behalf,

73.1067B.5.b

a statement that the individual is delivering the document on behalf of
another person who is not a disqualified person, or

73.1067B.5.c

a statement that the individual is delivering the document on behalf of a
disqualified person.

73.1067B.6

For the purpose of this section “ disqualified person ” means a person who is
disqualified under the directors disqualification legislation (see section
159A (2) ).

73.1067B.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this section for the purposes
of changing who may deliver a document to the registrar on behalf of a
disqualified person.

73.1067B.8

Regulations under subsection  (7)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Proper delivery: requirements about who may deliver documents

74

In section 1072 of the Companies Act 2006 (requirements for proper delivery),
in subsection (1), after paragraph (a) insert—

74.aa

any applicable requirements as regards who may deliver a document to the
registrar;

.

#### Facilitating electronic delivery

##### Delivery of documents by electronic means

75

75.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

75.2

In section 1068 (registrar’s requirements as to form, authentication and
manner of delivery)—

75.2.a

after subsection (4) insert—

75.2.a.4A

Any requirements under subsection (4)(b) to (d) must be imposed by means of
registrar’s rules.

;

75.2.b

omit subsections (5) to (6A).

75.3

Omit section 1069 (power to require delivery by electronic means).

75.4

In section 1072 (requirements for proper delivery), in subsection (1)(b), omit
“section 1069 (power to require delivery by electronic means),”.

##### Delivery of order confirming reduction of share capital

76

In section 649 of the Companies Act 2006 (registration of court order
confirming reduction of share capital and statement of capital), in subsection
(1), for the words from “production of an order” to “copy of the order”
substitute  “the delivery of a copy of a court order confirming the reduction
of a company’s share capital” .

##### Delivery of statutory declaration of solvency

77

77.1

In section 89 of the Insolvency Act 1986 (statutory declaration of solvency)—

77.1.a

in subsection (3), for “The declaration” substitute  “A copy of the
declaration” ;

77.1.b

in subsection (6), after “If” insert  “a copy of” .

77.2

In Article 75 of the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/2405
(N.I. 19) ) (statutory declaration of solvency)—

77.2.a

in paragraph (3), for “The declaration” substitute  “A copy of the
declaration” ;

77.2.b

in paragraph (6), after “If” insert  “a copy of” .

##### Registrar’s rules requiring documents to be delivered together

78

78.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

78.2

After section 1068 insert—

########### Registrar’s rules requiring documents to be delivered together

78.2.1068A

78.2.1068A.1

Registrar’s rules may provide for circumstances where—

78.2.1068A.1.a

a person who is required to deliver two or more documents to the registrar
must deliver them together;

78.2.1068A.1.b

a person who wishes to deliver two or more documents authorised to be
delivered to the registrar is required to deliver them together (so that, for
example, if one document is delivered on its own, the others cannot be
delivered on a later occasion);

78.2.1068A.1.c

a person who wishes to deliver one or more documents authorised to be
delivered to the registrar is required to deliver them together with one or
more documents that the person is required to deliver to the registrar (so
that, for example, if a document that is required to be delivered has been
delivered on its own, the documents that are authorised to be delivered cannot
be delivered on a later occasion).

78.2.1068A.2

Provision may not be made under subsection  (1)(a)  that would have the effect
of requiring any document to be delivered earlier than it would otherwise be
required to be delivered.

78.3

In section 1072 (requirements for proper delivery), in subsection (1)(b),
after the entry in the list for section 1068 insert—

section  1068A  (rules requiring documents to be delivered together),

.

#### Promoting the integrity of the register

##### Power to reject documents for inconsistencies

79

After section 1073 of the Companies Act 2006 insert—

######### Power to reject documents for discrepancies

79.1073A

79.1073A.1

The registrar may refuse to accept (and register) a document if—

79.1073A.1.a

it appears to the registrar to be inconsistent with other information that is
held by or available to the registrar, and

79.1073A.1.b

in light of the inconsistency, the registrar has reasonable grounds to doubt
whether it complies with any requirement as to its contents.

79.1073A.2

A document is refused by giving notice of the refusal to the person by whom
the document was delivered to the registrar.

79.1073A.3

A document that is refused by the registrar is treated for the purposes of any
provision authorising or requiring its delivery as not having been delivered.

##### Informal correction of document

80

80.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

80.2

Omit section 1075 (informal correction of document).

80.3

In section 1081 (annotation of the register), in subsection (1), omit
paragraph (b).

80.4

In section 1087 (material not available for public inspection), in subsection
(1)(d), at the end insert  “before the repeal of that section by the Economic
Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023” .

##### Preservation of original documents

81

In section 1083 of the Companies Act 2006 (preservation of original
documents), in subsection (1), for “three years” substitute  “two years” .

##### Records relating to dissolved companies etc

82

82.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

82.2

Section 1084 (records relating to companies that have been dissolved etc) is
to extend also to Scotland and is amended as follows—

82.2.a

in subsection (1), after paragraph (c) insert—

and a reference in this section to “the relevant date” is to the date on which
the company was dissolved, the overseas company ceased to have that connection
with the United Kingdom or the institution ceased to be within section 1050.

;

82.2.b

after subsection (1) insert—

82.2.b.1A

The registrar need not make any information contained in records relating to
the company or institution available for public inspection at any time after
the end of the period of 20 years beginning with the relevant date.

;

82.2.c

for subsections (2) and (3) substitute—

82.2.c.2

The registrar of companies for England and Wales may, at any time after the
period of two years beginning with the relevant date, direct that any records
relating to the company or institution that are held by the registrar are to
be removed to the Public Record Office.

82.2.c.2AA

The registrar of companies for Northern Ireland may, at any time after the
period of two years beginning with the relevant date, direct that any records
relating to the company or institution that are held by the registrar are to
be removed to the Public Record Office of Northern Ireland.

82.2.c.3

Records in respect of which a direction is given under subsection  (2)  or
(2A)  are to be disposed of under the enactments relating to the Public Record
Office or, as the case may be, the Public Record Office of Northern Ireland.

;

82.2.d

omit subsections (4A) and (5).

82.3

Omit section 1087ZA (required particulars available for public inspection for
limited period).

##### Power to require additional information

83

83.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)  to  (4)
.

83.2

After section 1092 insert—

########### Additional information

############ Power to require information

83.2.1092A

83.2.1092A.1

The registrar may by notice in writing require a person to provide information
to the registrar for the purposes of enabling the registrar to determine—

83.2.1092A.1.a

whether a person has complied with any obligation imposed by an enactment to
deliver a document to the registrar,

83.2.1092A.1.b

whether any information contained in a document received by the registrar
falls within section 1080(1)(a).

83.2.1092A.2

A requirement under this section may specify—

83.2.1092A.2.a

the form and manner in which the information is to be provided;

83.2.1092A.2.b

the period within which it is to be provided.

83.2.1092A.3

The registrar may by notice in writing extend a period specified in a
requirement under this section.

############ Offence relating to provision of information

83.2.1092B

83.2.1092B.1

A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a requirement
under section  1092A  commits an offence.

83.2.1092B.2

Where an offence under this section is committed by a firm, an offence is also
committed by every officer of the firm who is in default.

83.2.1092B.3

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

83.2.1092B.3.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both);

83.2.1092B.3.b

on summary conviction—

83.2.1092B.3.b.i

in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the general
limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

83.2.1092B.3.b.ii

in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or a fine not
exceeding the statutory maximum (or both) and, for continued contravention, a
daily default fine not exceeding one-fifth of the statutory maximum;

83.2.1092B.3.b.iii

in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a
fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both), and, for continued
contravention, a daily default fine not exceeding one-fifth of the statutory
maximum.

############ Privilege against self-incrimination

83.2.1092C

83.2.1092C.1

A statement made by a person in response to a requirement under section  1092A
may not be used against the person in criminal proceedings in which the person
is charged with an offence to which this subsection applies.

83.2.1092C.2

Subsection  (1)  applies to any offence other than—

83.2.1092C.2.a

an offence under one of the following provisions (which concern false
statements etc)—

83.2.1092C.2.a.i

section 1112 or 1112A;

83.2.1092C.2.a.ii

section 5 of the Perjury Act 1911;

83.2.1092C.2.a.iii

section 44(2) of the Criminal Law (Consolidation) (Scotland) Act 1995;

83.2.1092C.2.a.iv

Article 10 of the Perjury (Northern Ireland) Order 1979 ( S.I. 1979/1714 (N.I.
19) );

83.2.1092C.2.a.v

section 32 or 32A of the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act
2022;

83.2.1092C.2.a.vi

section 34 or 35 of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907;

83.2.1092C.2.b

any offence, not within paragraph  (a) , an element of which is the delivery
to the registrar of a document, or the making of a statement to the registrar,
that is misleading, false or deceptive.

83.3

In section 1059A (scheme of Part 35), in subsection (2), at the appropriate
place insert—

sections  1092A  to  1092C  (powers to require further information),

.

83.4

In section 1087 (material not available for public inspection), in subsection
(1), after paragraph (e) insert—

83.4.ea

any information provided to the registrar under section  1092A  (power to
require further information);

.

##### Registrar’s notice to resolve inconsistencies

84

84.1

Section 1093 of the Companies Act 2006 (registrar’s notice to resolve
inconsistency on the register) is amended as follows.

84.2

For subsections (1) and (2) substitute—

84.2.1

Where it appears to the registrar that the information contained in a document
delivered to the registrar in relation to a company is inconsistent with other
information contained in records kept by the registrar under section 1080, the
registrar may give notice to the company to which the document relates—

84.2.1.a

stating in what respects the information contained in it appears to be
inconsistent with other information in records kept by the registrar under
section 1080, and

84.2.1.b

requiring the company, within the period of 14 days beginning with the date on
which the notice is issued, to take all such steps as are reasonably open to
it to resolve the inconsistency by delivering replacement or additional
documents or in any other way.

84.2.2

The notice must state the date on which it is issued.

84.3

In the heading, omit “on the register”.

##### Administrative removal of material from the register

85

85.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

85.2

For section 1094 substitute—

########### Removal of material from the register

85.2.1094

85.2.1094.1

The registrar may remove from the register anything that appears to the
registrar to be—

85.2.1094.1.a

a document, or material derived from a document, accepted under section 1073
(power to accept documents not meeting requirements for proper delivery), or

85.2.1094.1.b

unnecessary material as defined by section 1074.

85.2.1094.2

The power to remove material from the register under this section may be
exercised—

85.2.1094.2.a

on the registrar’s own motion, or

85.2.1094.2.b

on an application made in accordance with regulations under section  1094A (2)
.

85.2.1094.3

The registrar may exercise the power to remove from the register anything the
registration of which had legal consequences only if satisfied that the
interest of the company, or (if different) the applicant, in removing the
material outweighs any interest of other persons in the material continuing to
appear on the register.

85.2.1094.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that the registrar’s power
to remove material from the register under this section following an
application is limited to material of a description specified in the
regulations.

85.2.1094.5

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative resolution
procedure.

########### Further provision about removal of material from the register

85.2.1094A

85.2.1094A.1

The Secretary of State must by regulations make provision for notice to be
given in accordance with the regulations where material is removed from the
register under section  1094  otherwise than on an application.

85.2.1094A.2

The Secretary of State must by regulations make provision in connection with
the making and determination of applications for the removal of material from
the register under section  1094 .

85.2.1094A.3

The provision that may be made under subsection  (2)  includes provision as
to—

85.2.1094A.3.a

who may make an application,

85.2.1094A.3.b

the information to be included in and documents to accompany an application,

85.2.1094A.3.c

the notice to be given of an application and of its outcome,

85.2.1094A.3.d

a period in which objections to an application may be made, and

85.2.1094A.3.e

how an application is to be determined, including provision as to evidence
that may be relied upon by the registrar for the purposes of satisfying the
test in section  1094 (1) .

85.2.1094A.4

The provision that may be made by virtue of subsection  (3)(e)  includes
provision as to circumstances in which—

85.2.1094A.4.a

evidence is to be treated by the registrar as conclusive proof that the test
in section  1094 (1)  is met, and

85.2.1094A.4.b

the power of removal must be exercised.

85.2.1094A.5

Regulations under this section may in particular confer a discretion on the
registrar.

85.2.1094A.6

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative resolution
procedure.

########### Power of court to make consequential orders following removal

85.2.1094B

85.2.1094B.1

Where the registrar removes anything from the register otherwise than in
pursuance of a court order, the court may, on an application by a person with
sufficient interest, make such consequential orders as the court thinks fit as
to the legal effects of the inclusion of the material on the register or its
removal.

85.2.1094B.2

In this section the reference to the registrar removing material from the
register includes the registrar determining that anything purported to be
delivered to the registrar under any enactment was not in fact delivered under
an enactment and therefore does not form part of the register.

85.3

In section 1073 (power to accept documents not meeting requirements for proper
delivery), in subsection (6)(a), for “section 1094(4)” substitute
“regulations under section  1094A (1) ” .

85.4

In section 1087 (material not available for public inspection), in subsection
(1), for paragraph (f) substitute—

85.4.f

any application or other document delivered to the registrar under section
1094  (removal of material from the register);

.

85.5

Omit section 1095 (rectification of register on application to registrar).

85.6

Omit section 1095A (rectification of register to resolve a discrepancy).

##### Rectification of the register under court order

86

86.1

Section 1096 of the Companies Act 2006 (rectification of the register under
court order) is amended as follows.

86.2

For subsection (3) substitute—

86.2.3

The court may make an order for the removal from the register of anything the
registration of which had legal consequences only if satisfied that the
interest of the company, or (if different) the applicant, in removing the
material outweighs any interest of other persons in the material continuing to
appear on the register.

86.3

After subsection (5) insert—

86.3.5A

This section does not apply to any material delivered to the registrar under
Part 15.

86.4

In subsection (6), omit paragraph (a) and the “or” at the end of that
paragraph.

##### Power to require businesses to report discrepancies

87

87.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

87.2

In section 1059A (scheme of Part 35), in subsection (4), at the appropriate
place insert—

section  1110D  (power to require businesses to report discrepancies),

.

87.3

After section 1110C (inserted by section 67 of this Act) insert—

########### Discrepancy reporting

############ Power to require businesses to report discrepancies

87.3.1110D

87.3.1110D.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations impose requirements on a person who
is carrying on business in the United Kingdom (a “relevant person”)—

87.3.1110D.1.a

to obtain specified information about a customer (or prospective customer)—

87.3.1110D.1.a.i

before entering into a business relationship with them, or

87.3.1110D.1.a.ii

during a business relationship with them,

87.3.1110D.1.b

to identify discrepancies between information so obtained and information made
publicly available by the registrar, and

87.3.1110D.1.c

to report any discrepancies to the registrar.

87.3.1110D.2

The regulations may require the relevant person, when reporting discrepancies,
to provide such other information as may be required by the regulations
(including information about the relevant person).

87.3.1110D.3

The regulations may provide for reports or other information delivered to the
registrar under the regulations to be withheld from public inspection.

87.3.1110D.4

The regulations may create offences in relation to failures to comply with
requirements imposed by the regulations.

87.3.1110D.5

The regulations may not provide for an offence created by the regulations to
be punishable with imprisonment for a period exceeding—

87.3.1110D.5.a

in the case of conviction on indictment, 2 years;

87.3.1110D.5.b

in the case of summary conviction, 3 months.

87.3.1110D.6

In this section “ customer ”, in relation to a person carrying out estate
agency work, includes a purchaser (as well as a seller).

87.3.1110D.7

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

#### Inspection etc of the register

##### Inspection of the register: general

88

In section 1085 of the Companies Act 2006 (inspection of the register), for
subsection (3) substitute—

88.3

This section has effect subject to—

sections 64 (6A) , 67 (1A) , 73 (7) , 75 (4A) , 76 (5B) , 76A(9) and 76B(9)
(which confer powers to suppress a company’s name that it has been directed or
ordered to change); section 1084 (1A)  (records relating to dissolved
companies etc); section 1087 (material not available for public inspection).

##### Copies of material on the register

89

89.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

89.2

In section 1086 (right to copy of material on the register)—

89.2.a

in subsection (1), at the end insert  “that is available for public
inspection” ;

89.2.b

omit subsection (3).

89.3

In section 1089 (form of application for inspection or copy), omit subsection
(2).

89.4

For section 1090 substitute—

########### Form and manner in which copies to be provided

89.4.1090

The registrar may determine the form and manner in which copies are to be
provided under section 1086.

89.5

In section 1091 (certification of copies as accurate)—

89.5.a

for subsections (1) and (2) substitute—

89.5.a.1

A copy provided under section 1086 must be certified by the registrar as a
true copy if the applicant expressly requests such certification.

;

89.5.b

in subsection (5), omit “Except in the case of an enhanced disclosure document
(see section 1078),”.

##### Material not available for public inspection

90

In section 1087 of the Companies Act 2006 (material not available for public
inspection), in subsection (1), after paragraph (j) insert—

90.ja

any record of the information contained in a document (or part of a document)
mentioned in any of the previous paragraphs of this subsection.

##### Protecting information on the register

91

91.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

91.2

In section 790ZF (protection of information as to usual residential address of
PSCs), omit subsection (3).

91.3

In section 1087 (material not available for public inspection)—

91.3.a

in subsection (1) for paragraph (e) substitute—

91.3.a.e

the following—

91.3.a.e.i

any application or other document delivered to the registrar under regulations
under section 1088 (regulations protecting material), other than information
provided by virtue of section  1088 (5) ;

91.3.a.e.ii

any information which regulations under section 1088 require not to be made
available for public inspection;

;

91.3.b

for subsection (2) substitute—

91.3.b.2

Where subsection (1), or a provision referred to in subsection (1), imposes a
restriction by reference to material deriving from a particular description of
document (or part of a document), that does not affect the availability for
public inspection of the same information contained in material derived from
another description of document (or part of a document) in relation to which
no such restriction applies.

91.4

For section 1088 substitute—

########### Power to make regulations protecting material

91.4.1088

91.4.1088.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision requiring the
registrar, on application—

91.4.1088.1.a

not to make available for public inspection any information on the register
relating to an individual;

91.4.1088.1.b

to refrain from disclosing information on the register relating to an
individual except in specified circumstances;

91.4.1088.1.c

not to make available for public inspection any address on the register that
is not information to which paragraph  (a)  applies;

91.4.1088.1.d

to refrain from disclosing any such address except in specified circumstances.

91.4.1088.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision requiring the
registrar—

91.4.1088.2.a

not to make available for public inspection any information on the register
relating to an individual;

91.4.1088.2.b

to refrain from disclosing information on the register relating to an
individual except in specified circumstances.

91.4.1088.3

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may make provision as to—

91.4.1088.3.a

who may make an application;

91.4.1088.3.b

the grounds on which an application may be made;

91.4.1088.3.c

the information to be included in and documents to accompany an application;

91.4.1088.3.d

the notice to be given of an application and of its outcome;

91.4.1088.3.e

how an application is to be determined;

91.4.1088.3.f

the duration of, and procedures for revoking, any restrictions on the making
of information available for public inspection or its disclosure.

91.4.1088.4

Provision under subsection  (3)(e)  or  (f)  may in particular provide for a
question to be referred to a person other than the registrar for the purposes
of determining the application or revoking the restrictions.

91.4.1088.5

Regulations under subsection  (1)(a)  or  (c)  may provide that information is
not to be made unavailable for public inspection unless the person to whom it
relates provides such alternative information as may be specified.

91.4.1088.6

The circumstances that may be specified under subsection  (1)(b)  or  (d)  or
(2)(b)  by way of an exception to a restriction on disclosure include
circumstances where the court has made an order, in accordance with the
regulations, authorising disclosure.

91.4.1088.7

Regulations under subsection  (1)(b)  or  (2)(b)  may not require the
registrar to refrain from disclosing information under—

91.4.1088.7.a

sections 243 or 244 (or those sections as applied by section 790ZF)
(residential address information);

91.4.1088.7.b

section  1087C (1)  (disclosure of date of birth information);

91.4.1088.7.c

any provision of regulations under section 1046 corresponding to provision
mentioned in paragraph  (a)  or  (b) ;

91.4.1088.7.d

section  1110F  (general powers of disclosure by the registrar).

91.4.1088.8

Regulations under subsection  (1)(d)  may not require the registrar to refrain
from disclosing information under section  1110F  (general powers of
disclosure by the registrar).

91.4.1088.9

Regulations under this section may in particular confer a discretion on the
registrar.

91.4.1088.10

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

#### Registrar's functions and fees

##### Analysis of information for the purposes of crime prevention or detection

92

After section 1062 of the Companies Act 2006 insert—

######### Analysis of information for the purposes of crime prevention or detection

92.1062A

92.1062A.1

The registrar must carry out such analysis of information within the
registrar’s possession as the registrar considers appropriate for the purposes
of preventing or detecting crime.

92.1062A.2

See also section  1110F  (which, among other things, allows the registrar to
disclose information to other public authorities).

##### Fees: costs that may be taken into account

93

93.1

Section 1063 of the Companies Act 2006 (fees) is amended as follows.

93.2

After subsection (3) insert—

93.2.3A

In deciding what provision to make under subsection (3)(a), the Secretary of
State may take into account any costs incurred or likely to be incurred by any
person for the purposes of the carrying out of—

93.2.3A.a

any function of the Secretary of State under or in connection with—

the Limited Partnerships Act 1907; Part 14 of the Companies Act 1985; the
Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986; the Limited Liability
Partnerships Act 2000; Part 1 of the Economic Crime (Transparency and
Enforcement) Act 2022; this Act;

93.2.3A.b

any function of a Northern Ireland department under or in connection with the
Company Directors Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order 2002 ( S.I.
2002/3150 (N.I. 4) );

93.2.3A.c

any function of the Secretary of State under or in connection with regulations
under section 1 of the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018 that make
provision in connection with licences of the kind mentioned in section 15(3A)
of that Act;

93.2.3A.d

any function of the Secretary of State under or in connection with the
Insolvency Act 1986, so far as relating to bodies corporate or other firms;

93.2.3A.e

any function of a Northern Ireland department under or in connection with the
Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/2405 (N.I. 19) ), so far
as relating to bodies corporate or other firms;

93.2.3A.f

any function carried out by the Insolvency Service on behalf of the Secretary
of State in connection with the detection, investigation or prosecution of
offences, or the recovery of the proceeds of crime, so far as relating to
bodies corporate or other firms;

93.2.3A.g

any function carried out by the Insolvency Service in Northern Ireland on
behalf of a Northern Ireland department in connection with the detection,
investigation or prosecution of offences, or the recovery of the proceeds of
crime, so far as relating to bodies corporate or other firms.

93.3

In subsection (4), for “this section” substitute  “subsection (1)” .

93.4

After subsection (6) insert—

93.4.6A

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend—

93.4.6A.a

the reference in subsection  (3A)(f)  to functions carried out by the
Insolvency Service on behalf of the Secretary of State, so long as the
functions referred to are functions of the Secretary of State that are of a
similar nature;

93.4.6A.b

the reference in subsection  (3A)(g)  to functions carried out by the
Insolvency Service in Northern Ireland on behalf of a Northern Ireland
department, so long as the functions referred to are functions of a Northern
Ireland department that are of a similar nature.

93.4.6B

Regulations under subsection  (6A)  are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

#### Information sharing and use

##### Disclosure of information

94

94.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

94.2

In section 243 (permitted disclosure by registrar), for subsection (6)
substitute—

94.2.6

Regulations under subsection (4) may in particular confer a discretion on the
registrar.

94.2.6A

Provision under subsection (5)(d) may in particular provide for a question to
be referred to a person other than the registrar for the purposes of
determining the application.

94.3

In section 1059A (scheme of Part 35), in subsection (2), at the appropriate
place insert—

sections  1110E  to  1110G  (disclosure of information),

.

94.4

After section 1110D (inserted by section 87 of this Act) insert—

########### Disclosure of information

############ Disclosure to the registrar

94.4.1110E

Any person may disclose information to the registrar for the purposes of the
exercise of any of the registrar’s functions.

############ Disclosure by the registrar

94.4.1110F

94.4.1110F.1

The registrar may disclose information—

94.4.1110F.1.a

to any person for purposes connected with the exercise of any of the
registrar’s functions;

94.4.1110F.1.b

to a public authority for purposes connected with the exercise of any of that
public authority’s functions;

94.4.1110F.1.c

to a person of a description, and for a purpose, specified in regulations made
by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this paragraph.

94.4.1110F.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)(c)  are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

94.4.1110F.3

In this section “ public authority ” includes any person or body having
functions of a public nature.

############ Disclosure: supplementary

94.4.1110G

94.4.1110G.1

Except as provided by subsection  (2) , the disclosure of information under
section  1110E  or  1110F  does not breach—

94.4.1110G.1.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

94.4.1110G.1.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

94.4.1110G.2

Sections  1110E  and  1110F  do not authorise a disclosure of information if
the disclosure would contravene the data protection legislation (but in
determining whether a disclosure would do so, take into account the powers
conferred by those sections).

94.4.1110G.3

HMRC information may not be disclosed by the registrar under section  1110F
without authorisation from HMRC.

94.4.1110G.4

If the registrar discloses HMRC information under section  1110F , the
information must not be disclosed by the recipient, or by any person obtaining
the information directly or indirectly from them, without authorisation from
HMRC.

94.4.1110G.5

It is an offence for a person to disclose, in contravention of subsection  (3)
or  (4) , any revenue and customs information relating to a person whose
identity—

94.4.1110G.5.a

is specified in the disclosure, or

94.4.1110G.5.b

can be deduced from it.

94.4.1110G.6

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under subsection  (5)  to
prove that the person reasonably believed—

94.4.1110G.6.a

that the disclosure was lawful, or

94.4.1110G.6.b

that the information had already lawfully been made available to the public.

94.4.1110G.7

Subsections (4) to (7) of section 19 of the Commissioners for Revenue and
Customs Act 2005 apply to an offence under subsection  (5)  as they apply to
an offence under that section.

94.4.1110G.8

In this section—

“ the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act); “ HMRC ” means the
Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs; “ HMRC information ”
means information disclosed to the registrar under section  1110E  by HMRC or
a person acting on behalf of HMRC; “ revenue and customs information relating
to a person ” has the meaning given by section 19(2) of the Commissioners for
Revenue and Customs Act 2005.

94.5

In section 1114 (application of provisions about documents and delivery), in
subsection (1)(b), at the end insert  “(but do not include the provision of
any information by virtue of section  1110E  or any other enactment
authorising the disclosure of information to the registrar)” .

94.6

Schedule 3 contains consequential amendments.

##### Use or disclosure of directors’ address information by companies

95

In section 241 of the Companies Act 2006 (protected information: restriction
on use or disclosure by company), after subsection (2) insert—

95.3

If a company uses or discloses information in contravention of subsection (1),
an offence is committed by—

95.3.a

the company, and

95.3.b

every officer of the company who is in default.

95.4

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction—

95.4.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

95.4.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine not
exceeding one-tenth of level 5 on the standard scale.

##### Use or disclosure of PSC information by companies

96

96.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

96.2

For section 790ZG substitute—

########### Power to make regulations protecting material

96.2.790ZG

96.2.790ZG.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

96.2.790ZG.1.a

require a company to refrain from using, or refrain from disclosing, relevant
PSC particulars except in circumstances specified in the regulations;

96.2.790ZG.1.b

confer power on the registrar, on application, to make an order requiring a
company to refrain from using, or refrain from disclosing, relevant PSC
particulars except in circumstances specified in the regulations.

96.2.790ZG.2

“ Relevant PSC particulars ” means such particulars of a person with
significant control over the company as may be prescribed.

96.2.790ZG.3

The reference in subsection  (2)  to a person with significant control over
the company—

96.2.790ZG.3.a

includes a person who used to be such a person, but

96.2.790ZG.3.b

does not include any person in relation to which this Part has effect by
virtue of section 790C(12) as if the person were an individual.

96.2.790ZG.4

Regulations under subsection  (1)(b)  may make provision as to—

96.2.790ZG.4.a

who may make an application;

96.2.790ZG.4.b

the grounds on which an application may be made;

96.2.790ZG.4.c

the information to be included in and documents to accompany an application;

96.2.790ZG.4.d

how an application is to be determined;

96.2.790ZG.4.e

the notice to be given of an application and its outcome;

96.2.790ZG.4.f

the duration of and procedures for revoking the restrictions on use and
disclosure.

96.2.790ZG.5

Provision under subsection  (4)  may in particular—

96.2.790ZG.5.a

confer a discretion on the registrar;

96.2.790ZG.5.b

provide for a question to be referred to a person other than the registrar for
the purposes of determining the application or revoking the restrictions.

96.2.790ZG.6

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

96.2.790ZG.7

Nothing in this section or in regulations made under it affects the use or
disclosure of particulars of a person in any other capacity (for example, the
use or disclosure of particulars of a person in that person‘s capacity as a
member or director of the company).

########### Offence of failing to comply with regulations under section 

96.2.790ZH

96.2.790ZH.1

If a company contravenes a restriction on the use or disclosure of information
imposed by virtue of regulations under subsection  790ZG , an offence is
committed by—

96.2.790ZH.1.a

the company, and

96.2.790ZH.1.b

every officer of the company who is in default.

96.2.790ZH.2

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction—

96.2.790ZH.2.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

96.2.790ZH.2.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine not
exceeding one-tenth of level 5 on the standard scale.

96.3

In section 1087 (material not available for public inspection), in subsection
(1), for paragraph (bc) substitute—

96.3.bc

any application or other document delivered to the registrar under regulations
under section  790ZG  (protection of PSC information);

.

##### Use of directors’ address information by registrar

97

97.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

97.2

In section 242 (protected information: restriction on use or disclosure by
registrar)—

97.2.a

in subsection (3), omit “use or” in each place it occurs;

97.2.b

in the heading, omit “use or”.

97.3

In section 243 (permitted use or disclosure by registrar)—

97.3.a

omit subsection (1);

97.3.b

in the heading, omit “use or”.

#### Overseas companies

##### Change of addresses of officers of overseas companies by registrar

98

In section 1046 of the Companies Act 2006 (overseas companies: registration of
particulars), after subsection (6) insert—

98.6A

Where regulations under this section require an overseas company to deliver to
the registrar for registration—

98.6A.a

a service address for an officer of the company, or

98.6A.b

the address of the principal office of an officer of the company,

the regulations may make provision corresponding or similar to any provision
made by section 1097B or 1097C (rectification of register relating to service
addresses or principal office addresses) or to provision that may be made by
regulations made under that section.

##### Overseas companies: availability of material for public inspection etc

99

In section 1046 of the Companies Act 2006 (overseas companies: registration of
particulars), after subsection  (6A)  (inserted by section 98 of this Act)
insert—

99.6B

Regulations under this section may include provision for information delivered
to the registrar under the regulations to be withheld from public inspection.

99.6C

The provision that may be made by regulations under this section includes
provision conferring a discretion on the registrar.

##### Registered addresses of an overseas company

100

100.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

100.2

After section 1048 insert—

########### Registered addresses of an overseas company

100.2.1048A

100.2.1048A.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision requiring an overseas
company that is required to register particulars under section 1046 to deliver
to the registrar for registration—

100.2.1048A.1.a

a statement specifying an address in the United Kingdom that is an appropriate
address for the company;

100.2.1048A.1.b

a statement specifying an appropriate email address for the company.

100.2.1048A.2

The regulations may include provision—

100.2.1048A.2.a

allowing an overseas company to change the address or email address for the
time being registered for it under the regulations;

100.2.1048A.2.b

requiring an overseas company to ensure that the address or email address for
the time being registered for it under the regulations is an appropriate
address or appropriate email address.

100.2.1048A.3

The regulations may include—

100.2.1048A.3.a

provision for information contained in a statement specifying an appropriate
email address to be withheld from public inspection;

100.2.1048A.3.b

provision corresponding or similar to any provision made by section 1097A
(rectification of register relating to a company’s registered office) or to
provision that may be made by regulations made under that section.

100.2.1048A.4

In this section—

“ appropriate address ” has the meaning given by section 86(2); “ appropriate
email address ” has the meaning given by section 88A(2).

100.2.1048A.5

Regulations under this section are subject to negative resolution procedure.

100.3

In section 1139 (service of documents on company), for subsections (2) and (3)
substitute—

100.3.2

A document may be served on an overseas company whose particulars are
registered under section 1046—

100.3.2.a

by leaving it at, or sending it by post to, the company’s registered address,
or

100.3.2.b

by leaving it at, or sending it by post to, the registered address of any
person resident in the United Kingdom who is authorised to accept service of
documents on the company’s behalf.

100.3.3

In subsection (2) “registered address”—

100.3.3.a

in relation to the overseas company, means the address for the time being
registered for the company under regulations under section  1048A (1)(a) ;

100.3.3.b

in relation to a person other than the overseas company, means any address for
the time being shown as a current address in relation to that person in the
part of the register available for public inspection.

##### Overseas companies: identity verification of directors

101

After section  1048A  of the Companies Act 2006 (inserted by section 100 of
this Act) insert—

######### Identity verification of directors

101.1048B

101.1048B.1

This section applies in relation to an overseas company that is required to
register particulars under section 1046.

101.1048B.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for the purpose of
ensuring that each individual who is a director of such a company is an
individual whose identity is verified (see section 1110A).

101.1048B.3

The regulations may include provision—

101.1048B.3.a

requiring the delivery of statements or other information to the registrar;

101.1048B.3.b

for statements or other information delivered to the registrar under the
regulations to be withheld from public inspection;

101.1048B.3.c

applying section 167M (prohibition on director acting unless ID verified),
with or without modifications;

101.1048B.3.d

applying section 1110C (exemption from identity verification: national
security grounds), with or without modifications.

101.1048B.4

Regulations under this section are subject to negative resolution procedure.

#### General offences and enforcement

##### General false statement offences

102

102.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

102.2

In section 1059A (scheme of Part 35), in subsection (3), for the entry
relating to sections 1112 and 1113 substitute—

sections  1112 ,  1112A  and 1113 (enforcement).

102.3

For section 1112 substitute—

########### False statements: basic offence

102.3.1112

102.3.1112.1

It is an offence for a person, without reasonable excuse, to—

102.3.1112.1.a

deliver or cause to be delivered to the registrar, for any purpose of the
Companies Acts, a document that is misleading, false or deceptive in a
material particular, or

102.3.1112.1.b

make to the registrar, for any purpose of the Companies Acts, a statement that
is misleading, false or deceptive in a material particular.

102.3.1112.2

Where the offence is committed by a firm, every officer of the firm who is in
default also commits the offence.

102.3.1112.3

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

102.3.1112.3.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to a fine;

102.3.1112.3.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale;

102.3.1112.3.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on
the standard scale.

########### False statements: aggravated offence

102.3.1112A

102.3.1112A.1

It is an offence for a person knowingly to—

102.3.1112A.1.a

deliver or cause to be delivered to the registrar, for any purpose of the
Companies Acts, a document that is misleading, false or deceptive in a
material particular, or

102.3.1112A.1.b

make to the registrar, for any purpose of the Companies Acts, a statement that
is misleading, false or deceptive in a material particular.

102.3.1112A.2

Where the offence is committed by a firm, every officer of the firm who is in
default also commits the offence.

102.3.1112A.3

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

102.3.1112A.3.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both);

102.3.1112A.3.b

on summary conviction—

102.3.1112A.3.b.i

in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the general
limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

102.3.1112A.3.b.ii

in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or a fine not
exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

102.3.1112A.3.b.iii

in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a
fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both).

102.4

In section 1126 (consents required for certain prosecutions)—

102.4.a

in subsection (1), for the entry relating to section 1112 substitute—

section  1112  or  1112A  of this Act (false statement offences);

;

102.4.b

in subsections (2)(a)(iv) and (3)(a)(iv), after “1112” insert  “or  1112A ” .

##### False statement offences: national security etc defence

103

103.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

103.2

In section 1059A (scheme of Part 35), in subsection (2), at the appropriate
place insert—

section  1112B  (false statement offences: national security etc defence).

103.3

After section  1112A  (inserted by section 102 of this Act) insert—

########### False statements offences: national security etc defence

103.3.1112B

103.3.1112B.1

A person to whom a certificate is issued by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this section is not liable for the commission of any offence
relating to the delivery to the registrar, or the making of a statement, that
is misleading, false or deceptive.

103.3.1112B.2

The Secretary of State may issue a certificate to a person for the purposes of
this section only if satisfied that it is necessary for the person to engage
in conduct amounting to such an offence—

103.3.1112B.2.a

in the interests of national security, or

103.3.1112B.2.b

for the purposes of preventing or detecting serious crime.

103.3.1112B.3

A certificate under this section may be revoked by the Secretary of State at
any time.

103.3.1112B.4

For the purposes of subsection  (2)(b) —

103.3.1112B.4.a

“ crime ” means conduct which—

103.3.1112B.4.a.i

constitutes a criminal offence, or

103.3.1112B.4.a.ii

is, or corresponds to, any conduct which, if it all took place in any one part
of the United Kingdom, would constitute a criminal offence, and

103.3.1112B.4.b

crime is “serious” if—

103.3.1112B.4.b.i

the offence which is or would be constituted by the conduct is an offence for
which the maximum sentence (in any part of the United Kingdom) is imprisonment
for 3 years or more, or

103.3.1112B.4.b.ii

the conduct involves the use of violence, results in substantial financial
gain or is conduct by a large number of persons in pursuit of a common
purpose.

##### Financial penalties

104

104.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

104.2

In the heading to Part 36 (Offences under the Companies Acts), at the end
insert  “and financial penalties” .

104.3

After section 1132 insert—

########### Financial penalties

############ Power to make provision for financial penalties

104.3.1132A

104.3.1132A.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision conferring power on
the registrar to impose a financial penalty on a person if satisfied, beyond
reasonable doubt, that the person has engaged in conduct amounting to a
relevant offence under this Act.

104.3.1132A.2

“ Relevant offence under this Act ” means any offence under this Act other
than an offence under a provision contained in—

104.3.1132A.2.a

Part 12 (company secretaries);

104.3.1132A.2.b

Part 13 (resolutions and meetings);

104.3.1132A.2.c

Part 16 (audit).

104.3.1132A.3

The regulations may include provision—

104.3.1132A.3.a

about the procedure to be followed in imposing penalties;

104.3.1132A.3.b

about the amount of penalties;

104.3.1132A.3.c

for the imposition of interest or additional penalties for late payment;

104.3.1132A.3.d

conferring rights of appeal against penalties;

104.3.1132A.3.e

about the enforcement of penalties.

104.3.1132A.4

Provision made under subsection  (3)(b)  must ensure that the maximum
financial penalty that may be imposed does not exceed £10,000.

104.3.1132A.5

The regulations must provide that—

104.3.1132A.5.a

no financial penalty may be imposed under the regulations on a person in
respect of conduct amounting to an offence if—

104.3.1132A.5.a.i

proceedings have been brought against the person for that offence in respect
of that conduct and the proceedings are ongoing, or

104.3.1132A.5.a.ii

the person has been convicted of that offence in respect of that conduct, and

104.3.1132A.5.b

no proceedings may be brought against a person in respect of conduct amounting
to an offence if the person has been given a financial penalty under the
regulations in respect of that conduct.

104.3.1132A.6

Amounts recovered by the registrar under the regulations are to be paid into
the Consolidated Fund.

104.3.1132A.7

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

104.3.1132A.8

In this section “ conduct ” means an act or omission.

#### Rectification of addresses and service of documents

##### Registered office: rectification of register

105

105.1

Section 1097A of the Companies Act 2006 (rectification of register relating to
a company’s registered office) is amended as follows.

105.2

For subsection (1) substitute—

105.2.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision authorising or
requiring the registrar to change the address of a company’s registered office
if satisfied that it is not an appropriate address within the meaning given by
section  86 (2) .

105.2.1A

The regulations may authorise or require the address to be changed on the
registrar’s own motion or on an application by another person.

105.3

Omit subsection (2).

105.4

In subsection (3)—

105.4.a

after paragraph (b) insert—

105.4.a.ba

the registrar requiring the company or an applicant to provide information for
the purposes of determining anything under the regulations,

;

105.4.b

in paragraph (c), for “and of its outcome” substitute  “or that the registrar
is considering the exercise of powers under the regulations” ;

105.4.c

after paragraph (c) insert—

105.4.c.ca

the notice to be given of any decision under the regulations,

;

105.4.d

for paragraph (e) substitute—

105.4.d.e

how the registrar is to determine whether a company’s registered office is at
an appropriate address within the meaning given by section  86 (2) , including
in particular the evidence, or descriptions of evidence, which the registrar
may without further enquiry rely on to be satisfied that an address is an
appropriate address,

;

105.4.e

for paragraph (f) substitute—

105.4.e.f

the referral by the registrar of any question for determination by the court,

;

105.4.f

in paragraph (h), at the end insert  “(which need not be an appropriate
address within the meaning given by section  86 (2) )” ;

105.4.g

after paragraph (h) insert—

105.4.g.ha

the period for which a company is permitted to have the default address as its
registered office,

;

105.4.h

for paragraph (i) substitute—

105.4.h.i

when the change of address takes effect and the consequences of registration
of the change (including provision similar or corresponding to section 87(2)).

105.5

Omit subsection (4).

105.6

Before subsection (5) insert—

105.6.4A

Provision made by virtue of subsection (3) (ha)  may in particular include—

105.6.4A.a

provision creating summary offences punishable with a fine not exceeding level
3 on the standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine
not exceeding one-tenth of level 3 on the standard scale;

105.6.4A.b

provision—

105.6.4A.b.i

for the registrar to strike a company’s name off the register if the company
does not change the address of its registered office from the default address,
and

105.6.4A.b.ii

for the restoration of a company to the register, in such circumstances as may
be prescribed, on an application made to the registrar or in pursuance of a
court order.

105.6.4B

The provision that may be made by virtue of subsection  (4A)  includes
provision applying or writing out, in either case with or without
modifications, any provision made by section 1000 or Chapter 3 of Part 31.

105.6.4C

Regulations under this section may in particular confer a discretion on the
registrar.

105.7

For subsection (6) substitute—

105.7.6

The regulations must confer a right on a company to appeal to the court
against any decision to change the address of its registered office under the
regulations.

105.7.6A

If the regulations enable a person to apply for a company’s registered office
to be changed, they must also confer a right on the applicant to appeal to the
court against a refusal of the application.

##### Rectification of register: service addresses

106

106.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

106.2

After section 1097A insert—

########### Rectification of register: service addresses

106.2.1097B

106.2.1097B.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision authorising or
requiring the registrar to change a registered service address of a relevant
person if satisfied that the address does not meet the requirements of section
1141(1) and (2).

106.2.1097B.2

In this section—

“ registered service address ”, in relation to a relevant person, means the
address for the time being shown in the register as the person’s current
service address; “ relevant person ” means— a director of a company that is
not an overseas company, a secretary or one of the joint secretaries of a
company that is not an overseas company, or a registrable person or
registrable relevant legal entity in relation to a company (within the
meanings given by section 790C).

106.2.1097B.3

The regulations may authorise or require the address to be changed on the
registrar’s own motion or on an application by another person.

106.2.1097B.4

The regulations must provide for the change in the address to be effected by
the registrar proceeding as if the company had given notice under section
167H, 279H or 790LD of the change.

106.2.1097B.5

The regulations may make provision as to—

106.2.1097B.5.a

who may make an application,

106.2.1097B.5.b

the information to be included in and documents to accompany an application,

106.2.1097B.5.c

the registrar requiring the company or an applicant to provide information for
the purposes of determining anything under the regulations,

106.2.1097B.5.d

the notice to be given of an application or that the registrar is considering
the exercise of powers under the regulations,

106.2.1097B.5.e

the notice to be given of any decision under the regulations,

106.2.1097B.5.f

the period in which objections to an application may be made,

106.2.1097B.5.g

how the registrar is to determine whether a registered service address meets
the requirements of section 1141(1) and (2), including in particular the
evidence, or descriptions of evidence, which the registrar may without further
enquiry rely on to be satisfied that the address meets those requirements,

106.2.1097B.5.h

the referral by the registrar of any question for determination by the court,

106.2.1097B.5.i

the registrar requiring the company to provide an address to be registered as
the relevant person’s service address,

106.2.1097B.5.j

the nomination by the registrar of an address (a “default address”) to be
registered as the relevant person’s service address (which need not meet the
requirements of section 1141(1) and (2)),

106.2.1097B.5.k

the period for which the default address is permitted to be the relevant
person’s registered service address, and

106.2.1097B.5.l

when the change of address takes effect and the consequences of registration
of the change (including provision similar or corresponding to section
1140(5)).

106.2.1097B.6

The provision made by virtue of subsection  (5)(k)  may in particular include
provision creating summary offences punishable with a fine not exceeding level
3 on the standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine
not exceeding one-tenth of level 3 on the standard scale.

106.2.1097B.7

The regulations must confer a right on the company to appeal to the court
against any decision to change the relevant person’s registered service
address under the regulations.

106.2.1097B.8

If the regulations enable a person to apply for a registered service address
to be changed, they must also confer a right on the applicant to appeal to the
court against a refusal of the application.

106.2.1097B.9

On an appeal, the court must direct the registrar to register such address as
the relevant person’s registered service address as the court considers
appropriate in all the circumstances of the case.

106.2.1097B.10

The regulations may make further provision about an appeal and in particular—

106.2.1097B.10.a

provision about the time within which an appeal must be brought and the
grounds on which an appeal may be brought;

106.2.1097B.10.b

further provision about directions by virtue of subsection  (9) .

106.2.1097B.11

The regulations may include such provision applying (including applying with
modifications), amending or repealing an enactment contained in this Act as
the Secretary of State considers necessary or expedient in consequence of any
provision made by the regulations.

106.2.1097B.12

Regulations under this section may in particular confer a discretion on the
registrar.

106.2.1097B.13

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

106.3

In section 1087 (material not available for public inspection), in subsection
(1)(ga)—

106.3.a

after “1097A” insert  “,  1097B ” ;

106.3.b

for “company registered office” substitute  “registered office, service
address” .

##### Rectification of register: principal office addresses

107

107.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

107.2

After section  1097B  (inserted by section 106) insert—

########### Rectification of register: principal office addresses

107.2.1097C

107.2.1097C.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision authorising or
requiring the registrar to change the address registered as the principal
office of a relevant person if satisfied that the address is not in fact their
principal office.

107.2.1097C.2

In this section—

“ address registered as the principal office ”, in relation to a relevant
person, means the address for the time being shown in the register as the
address of the person’s current principal office; “ relevant person ” means— a
director of a company that is not an overseas company, a secretary or one of
the joint secretaries of a company that is not an overseas company, a
registrable relevant legal entity in relation to a company (within the meaning
given by section 790C), or a registrable person in relation to a company
(within the meaning given by section 790C) who falls within section 790C(12).

107.2.1097C.3

The regulations may authorise or require the address to be changed on the
registrar’s own motion or on an application by another person.

107.2.1097C.4

The regulations must provide for the change in the address to be effected by
the registrar proceeding as if the company had given notice under section
167H, 279H or 790LD of the change.

107.2.1097C.5

The regulations may make provision as to—

107.2.1097C.5.a

who may make an application,

107.2.1097C.5.b

the information to be included in and documents to accompany an application,

107.2.1097C.5.c

the registrar requiring the company or an applicant to provide information for
the purposes of determining anything under the regulations,

107.2.1097C.5.d

the notice to be given of an application or that the registrar is considering
the exercise of powers under the regulations,

107.2.1097C.5.e

the notice to be given of any decision under the regulations,

107.2.1097C.5.f

the period in which objections to an application may be made,

107.2.1097C.5.g

how the registrar is to determine whether an address registered as the
principal office of a relevant person is in fact the person’s principal
office, including in particular the evidence, or descriptions of evidence,
which the registrar may without further enquiry rely on to be satisfied that
the address meets those requirements,

107.2.1097C.5.h

the referral by the registrar of any question for determination by the court,

107.2.1097C.5.i

the registrar requiring the company to provide an address to be registered as
the principal office of the relevant person,

107.2.1097C.5.j

the nomination by the registrar of an address (a “default address”) to be
registered as the principal office of the relevant person (which need not be
the relevant person’s actual principal office),

107.2.1097C.5.k

the period for which the default address is permitted to be the address
registered as the principal office of the relevant person, and

107.2.1097C.5.l

when the change of address takes effect and the consequences of registration
of the change.

107.2.1097C.6

The provision made by virtue of subsection  (5)(k)  may in particular include
provision creating summary offences punishable with a fine not exceeding level
3 on the standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine
not exceeding one-tenth of level 3 on the standard scale.

107.2.1097C.7

The regulations must confer a right on the company to appeal to the court
against any decision to change the address registered as the principal office
of the relevant person under the regulations.

107.2.1097C.8

If the regulations enable a person to apply for the address registered as the
principal office of a relevant person to be changed, the regulations must also
confer a right on the applicant to appeal to the court against a refusal of
the application.

107.2.1097C.9

On an appeal, the court must direct the registrar to register such address as
the principal office of the relevant person as the court considers appropriate
in all the circumstances of the case.

107.2.1097C.10

The regulations may make further provision about an appeal and in particular—

107.2.1097C.10.a

provision about the time within which an appeal must be brought and the
grounds on which an appeal may be brought;

107.2.1097C.10.b

further provision about directions by virtue of subsection  (9) .

107.2.1097C.11

The regulations may include such provision applying (including applying with
modifications), amending or repealing an enactment contained in this Act as
the Secretary of State considers necessary or expedient in consequence of any
provision made by the regulations.

107.2.1097C.12

Regulations under this section may in particular confer a discretion on the
registrar.

107.2.1097C.13

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

107.3

In section 1087 (material not available for public inspection), in subsection
(1)(ga)—

107.3.a

after “ 1097B ” (inserted by section 106 of this Act) insert  “or  1097C ” ;

107.3.b

after “ service address ” (inserted by section 106 of this Act) insert  “or
principal office address” .

##### Service of documents on people with significant control

108

In section 1140 of the Companies Act 2006 (service of documents on directors,
secretaries and others), in subsection (2), after paragraph (a) insert—

108.aa

a person who is a registrable person or a registrable relevant legal entity in
relation to a company (within the meanings given by section 790C);

.

### Partnerships

#### Limited partnerships etc.

##### Meaning of “limited partnership”

###### Meaning of “limited partnership”

109

109.1

The Limited Partnerships Act 1907 is amended in accordance with subsections
(2)  and  (3) .

109.2

In section 3 (interpretation of terms), in subsection (1) (created by section
110 of this Act), at the appropriate place insert—

“ limited partnership ” means a firm that is registered as a limited
partnership under this Act (for the only circumstances in which a firm can
cease to be registered as a limited partnership under this Act while remaining
a firm see section 26 (voluntary deregistration));

.

109.3

Omit section 5 (registration of limited partnership required).

109.4

In section 1099 of the Companies Act 2006 (the registrar’s index of company
names), in subsection (3)(a), for “registered in the United Kingdom”
substitute  “(within the meaning of section 3 of the Limited Partnerships Act
1907)” .

##### Required information about limited partnerships

###### Required information about partners

110

110.1

The Limited Partnerships Act 1907 is amended as follows.

110.2

In section 3 (interpretation of terms)—

110.2.a

the existing text becomes subsection (1);

110.2.b

in that subsection, at the appropriate places insert—

“ body corporate ” has the same meaning as in the Companies Acts (see section
1173 of the Companies Act 2006);”;

;

“managing officer”— in relation to a company, means a director or shadow
director; in relation to a legal entity the affairs of which are managed by
some or all of its members, means one of those members; in relation to any
other legal entity, means an officer of the entity whose functions correspond
to that of a director of a company;”;

;

“ legal entity ” means a body corporate or other entity that (in each case) is
a legal person under the law by which it is governed;

;

“ service address ” has the same meaning as in the Companies Acts (see section
1141(1) and (2) of the Companies Act 2006).

;

110.2.c

after that subsection insert—

110.2.c.2

For the purposes of the definition of “managing officer” in subsection (1), “
director ” and “ shadow director ” have the same meanings as in the Companies
Acts (see sections 250 and 251 of the Companies Act 2006).

110.2.c.3

In this section “ the Companies Acts ” has the meaning given by section 2(1)
of the Companies Act 2006.

110.3

In section 4 (definition and constitution of limited partnership), in
subsection (4), for “body corporate” substitute  “legal entity” .

110.4

In section 8A (application for registration)—

110.4.a

in subsection (1)(c), after “each” insert  “proposed” ;

110.4.b

in subsections (2)(b) and (c), for “name of each” substitute  “required
information about each proposed” ;

110.4.c

in subsection (2)(d), after “each” insert  “proposed” ;

110.4.d

in subsections (3)(a) and (b), for “name of each” substitute  “required
information about each proposed” ;

110.4.e

after subsection (3) insert—

110.4.e.3A

For the required information about a proposed general partner or a proposed
limited partner see Part 2 of the Schedule.

110.5

Schedule 4 inserts a Schedule into the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 setting
out the required information about partners.

###### Required information about partners: transitional provision

111

111.1

This section applies in relation to a limited partnership that was registered
under the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 in pursuance of an application for
registration delivered to the registrar before section 110 (4)  came fully
into force.

111.2

The general partners in the limited partnership must, within the transitional
period, deliver a statement to the registrar specifying the required
information (within the meaning of the Schedule to that Act (inserted by
Schedule 4 to this Act)) about each person who—

111.2.a

is a partner in the limited partnership, and

111.2.b

became a partner on the registration of the limited partnership.

111.3

If a change in the required information about such a partner occurs before
whichever is earlier of—

111.3.a

the end of the transitional period, and

111.3.b

the delivery of the statement mentioned in subsection  (2) ,

the general partners in the limited partnership are not required by the
provisions mentioned in subsection  (4)  to give notice to the registrar of
the change, unless it is a change to the partner’s name.

111.4

The provisions are—

111.4.a

section 8S(1) of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by section 122 of
this Act), and

111.4.b

so far as it relates to section 8S(1) of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907,
section 10D(2)(a) of that Act (inserted by section 126 of this Act).

111.5

In this section—

“ the registrar ” has the same meaning as in the Limited Partnerships Act 1907
(see section 15 of that Act); “ transitional period ” means the period of 6
months beginning when section 110 (4)  came fully into force.

111.6

Failure by the general partners in a limited partnership to comply with
subsection  (2)  is, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, to be
treated by the registrar as reasonable cause to believe that the limited
partnership has been dissolved for the purposes of section 19 of the Limited
Partnerships Act 1907 (registrar’s power to confirm dissolution of limited
partnership) (inserted by section 141 of this Act).

111.7

Where the registrar proposes to rely on a failure by the general partners in
the limited partnership to comply with subsection  (2)  as grounds for
exercising the power in section 19 of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907,
subsections (2) to (4) of that section (publication of warning notice) do not
apply.

###### Details about general nature of partnership business

112

In section 8A of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (application for
registration)—

112.a

after subsection (2) insert—

112.a.2A

The details referred to in subsection (2)(a) about the general nature of the
partnership business may be given by reference to one or more categories of
any system of classifying business activities prescribed by regulations made
by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this section.

;

112.b

after subsection (8) insert—

112.b.9

Regulations under subsection  (2A)  are subject to the negative resolution
procedure.

##### Registered offices

###### A limited partnership’s registered office

113

113.1

The Limited Partnerships Act 1907 is amended as follows.

113.2

In section 3 (interpretation of terms)—

113.2.a

in subsection (1) (created by section 110 of this Act), at the appropriate
place insert—

“ authorised corporate service provider ” has the same meaning as in the
Companies Act 2006 (see section 1098A of that Act);

;

113.2.b

after subsection (3) (inserted by section 110 of this Act) insert—

113.2.b.4

Section 1125 of the Companies Act 2006 (meaning of “ daily default fine ”)
applies for the purpose of any provision made by this Act as it applies for
the purposes of provisions of the Companies Acts.

113.3

In section 8A (application for registration)—

113.3.a

in subsection (1), after paragraph (a) insert—

113.3.a.aa

specify the intended address of the limited partnership’s registered office,
which must be an appropriate address within the meaning given by section  8E
(2) ,

113.3.a.ab

specify which of the addresses mentioned in section  8E (2)(c)  the intended
address is,

;

113.3.b

after subsection (1) insert—

113.3.b.1A

An application for registration of a limited partnership which specifies that
the intended address of its registered office is an address mentioned in
section  8E (2) (c)(iv)  must be accompanied by a statement by the authorised
corporate service provider confirming that the address is the authorised
corporate service provider’s address.

113.4

After section 8D insert—

############ A limited partnership’s registered office

############# Duty to ensure registered office at appropriate address

113.4.8E

113.4.8E.1

The general partners in a limited partnership must ensure that its registered
office is at all times at an appropriate address.

113.4.8E.2

An address is an “appropriate address” if—

113.4.8E.2.a

in the ordinary course of events—

113.4.8E.2.a.i

a document addressed to the limited partnership, and delivered there by hand
or by post, would be expected to come to the attention of a person acting on
behalf of the limited partnership, and

113.4.8E.2.a.ii

the delivery of documents there is capable of being recorded by the obtaining
of an acknowledgement of delivery,

113.4.8E.2.b

it is in the part of the United Kingdom in which the limited partnership is
registered, and

113.4.8E.2.c

it is at least one of the following—

113.4.8E.2.c.i

the address of the principal place of business of the limited partnership;

113.4.8E.2.c.ii

the usual residential address of a general partner who is an individual;

113.4.8E.2.c.iii

the address of the registered or principal office of a general partner that is
a legal entity;

113.4.8E.2.c.iv

an address of an authorised corporate service provider that is acting for the
limited partnership.

113.4.8E.3

If the general partners fail to comply with this section an offence is
committed by each general partner who is in default.

113.4.8E.4

But where the general partner is a legal entity, it does not commit an offence
as a general partner in default unless one of its managing officers is in
default.

113.4.8E.5

Where any such offence is committed by a general partner that is a legal
entity, or any such offence is by virtue of this subsection committed by a
managing officer that is a legal entity, any managing officer of the legal
entity also commits the offence if—

113.4.8E.5.a

the managing officer is an individual who is in default, or

113.4.8E.5.b

the managing officer is a legal entity that is in default and one of its
managing officers is in default.

113.4.8E.6

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction—

113.4.8E.6.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

113.4.8E.6.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine not
exceeding one-tenth of level 5 on the standard scale.

113.4.8E.7

A general partner or managing officer is “ in default ” for the purposes of
this section if they authorise or permit, participate in, or fail to take all
reasonable steps to prevent, the contravention.

113.4.8E.8

Subsection  (1)  does not apply in relation to a limited partnership during
any period for which the address of its registered office is an address
nominated by the registrar by virtue of regulations made under section  8G .

############# Change of address of registered office by general partners

113.4.8F

113.4.8F.1

The address of a limited partnership’s registered office can be changed by the
general partners giving notice to the registrar.

113.4.8F.2

The notice must include a statement—

113.4.8F.2.a

that the new address is an appropriate address within the meaning given by
section  8E (2) , and

113.4.8F.2.b

specifying which of the addresses in section  8E (2)(c)  the address is.

113.4.8F.3

If the statement under subsection  (2)(b)  specifies that the address is an
address mentioned in section  8E (2) (c)(iv) , the notice must be accompanied
by a statement by the authorised corporate service provider confirming that
the address is the authorised corporate service provider’s address.

113.4.8F.4

The change takes effect upon the notice being registered by the registrar, but
until the end of the period of 14 days beginning with the date on which it is
registered a person may validly serve any document on the limited partnership
at the address previously registered.

############# Regulations about change of address of registered office by registrar

113.4.8G

113.4.8G.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision authorising or
requiring the registrar to change the address of a limited partnership’s
registered office if satisfied that it is not an appropriate address within
the meaning given by section  8E (2) .

113.4.8G.2

The regulations may authorise or require the address to be changed on the
registrar’s own motion or on an application by another person.

113.4.8G.3

The regulations—

113.4.8G.3.a

may include provision corresponding or similar to any provision that may be
included in regulations under section 1097A of the Companies Act 2006;

113.4.8G.3.b

must include—

113.4.8G.3.b.i

provision about appeals corresponding to the provision that must be included
in regulations under section 1097A by virtue of subsections  (6)  and  (6A)
of that section;

113.4.8G.3.b.ii

provision corresponding to subsection (7) of that section.

113.4.8G.4

The provision that may be made by virtue of subsection  (3)(a)  that is
corresponding or similar to provision that may be made by virtue of section
1097A (4A)(b)  and  (4B)  of the Companies Act 2006 (strike off and
restoration) includes provision applying or writing out, with or without
modifications, any provision made by section 19 (power to confirm dissolution)
or section 20 (administrative revival).

113.4.8G.5

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative resolution
procedure.

###### A limited partnership’s registered office: transitional provision

114

114.1

This section applies in relation to a limited partnership registered under the
Limited Partnerships Act 1907 in pursuance of an application for registration
delivered to the registrar before section 113 (3)  came fully into force.

114.2

The general partners must, within the transitional period, deliver to the
registrar a statement specifying—

114.2.a

the address of its registered office (which must be an appropriate address
within the meaning given by section  8E (2)  of that Act (inserted by section
113 (4)  of this Act)), and

114.2.b

which of the addresses in section  8E (2)(c)  of that Act the address is.

114.3

If the statement under subsection  (2)(b)  specifies that the address is an
address mentioned in section  8E (2) (c) (iv)  of the Limited Partnerships Act
1907, the notice must be accompanied by a statement by the authorised
corporate service provider confirming that the address is the authorised
corporate service provider’s address.

114.4

The provisions mentioned in subsection  (5)  do not apply in respect of the
limited partnership until—

114.4.a

the end of the transitional period, or

114.4.b

if earlier, the delivery of the statement mentioned in subsection  (2) .

114.5

Those provisions are—

114.5.a

section  8E  of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by section 113 (4)
of this Act);

114.5.b

section  10D (2)(b)  of that Act (inserted by section 126 of this Act).

114.6

In this section—

“ the registrar ” has the same meaning as in the Limited Partnerships Act 1907
(see section 15 of that Act); “ transitional period ” means the period of 6
months beginning when section 113 (3)  came fully into force.

114.7

Failure by the general partners in the limited partnership to comply with
subsection  (2)  is, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, to be
treated by the registrar as reasonable cause to believe that the limited
partnership has been dissolved for the purposes of section 19 of the Limited
Partnerships Act 1907 (registrar’s power to confirm dissolution of limited
partnership) (inserted by section 141 of this Act).

114.8

Where the registrar proposes to rely on a failure by the general partners in
the limited partnership to comply with subsection  (2)  as grounds for
exercising the power in section 19 of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907,
subsections (2) to (4) of that section (publication of warning notice) do not
apply.

###### A limited partnership’s registered office: consequential amendments

115

115.1

Regulation 2 of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Regulations 2013 (
S.I. 2013/1773 ) (interpretation) is amended as follows.

115.2

In paragraph (1)—

115.2.a

at the end of paragraph (a) of the definition of “EEA AIF” insert  “(but see
paragraph  (1A)  if the AIF is a limited partnership)” ;

115.2.b

at the end of the definition of “Gibraltar AIF” insert  “(but see paragraph
(1A)  if the AIF is a limited partnership)” ;

115.2.c

at the end of paragraph (b) of the definition of “UK AIF” insert  “(but see
paragraph  (1A)  if the AIF is a limited partnership)” ;

115.2.d

at the appropriate places insert—

“established”: a reference to the place where an AIF is established (however
expressed) is, in relation to an AIF that is a limited partnership, a
reference to— the country in which the AIF is authorised or registered, or if
the AIF is not authorised or registered, the country in which it has its
principal place of business;

;

“ limited partnership ” means a limited partnership registered under the
Limited Partnerships Act 1907;

.

115.3

After paragraph (1) insert—

115.3.1A

In the application of the definition of “EEA AIF”, “Gibraltar AIF” and “UK
AIF” to an AIF that is a limited partnership, a reference to the AIF’s
registered office is to be read as a reference to its principal place of
business.

##### Registered email addresses

###### A limited partnership’s registered email address

116

116.1

The Limited Partnerships Act 1907 is amended as follows.

116.2

In section 8A (application for registration), in subsection (1), after
paragraph  (ab)  (inserted by section 113 of this Act) insert—

116.2.ac

specify the intended registered email address of the limited partnership,
which must be an appropriate email address within the meaning given by section
8H (2) ,

.

116.3

After section  8G  (inserted by section 113 of this Act) insert—

############ A limited partnership‘s registered email address

############# Duty to maintain a registered email address

116.3.8H

116.3.8H.1

The general partners in a limited partnership must ensure that its registered
email address is at all times an appropriate email address.

116.3.8H.2

An email address is an “appropriate email address” if, in the ordinary course
of events, emails sent to it by the registrar would be expected to come to the
attention of a person acting on behalf of the limited partnership.

116.3.8H.3

If the general partners fail to comply with this section an offence is
committed by each general partner who is in default.

116.3.8H.4

But where the general partner is a legal entity, it does not commit an offence
as a general partner in default unless one of its managing officers is in
default.

116.3.8H.5

Where any such offence is committed by a general partner that is a legal
entity, or any such offence is by virtue of this subsection committed by a
managing officer that is a legal entity, any managing officer of the legal
entity also commits the offence if—

116.3.8H.5.a

the managing officer is an individual who is in default, or

116.3.8H.5.b

the managing officer is a legal entity that is in default and one of its
managing officers is in default.

116.3.8H.6

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction—

116.3.8H.6.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

116.3.8H.6.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine not
exceeding one-tenth of level 5 on the standard scale.

116.3.8H.7

A general partner or managing officer is “ in default ” for the purposes of
this section if they authorise or permit, participate in, or fail to take all
reasonable steps to prevent, the contravention.

############# Change of registered email address

116.3.8I

116.3.8I.1

A limited partnership’s registered email address can be changed by the general
partners giving notice to the registrar.

116.3.8I.2

The notice must include a statement that the new address is an appropriate
email address within the meaning given by section  8H (2) .

116.3.8I.3

The change takes effect upon the notice being registered by the registrar.

###### A limited partnership’s registered email address: transitional provision

117

117.1

This section applies in relation to a limited partnership registered under the
Limited Partnerships Act 1907 in pursuance of an application for registration
delivered to the registrar before section 116 (2)  came fully into force.

117.2

The general partners must, within the transitional period, deliver to the
registrar a statement specifying its registered email address (which must be
an appropriate email address within the meaning given by section  8H (2)  of
that Act (inserted by section 116 (3)  of this Act)).

117.3

The provisions mentioned in subsection  (4)  do not apply in respect of the
limited partnership until—

117.3.a

the end of the transitional period, or

117.3.b

if earlier, the delivery of the statement mentioned in subsection  (2) .

117.4

Those provisions are—

117.4.a

section  8H  of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by section 116 (3)
of this Act);

117.4.b

section  10D (2)(c)  of that Act (inserted by section 126 of this Act).

117.5

In this section—

“ the registrar ” has the same meaning as in the Limited Partnerships Act 1907
(see section 15 of that Act); “ transitional period ” means the period of 6
months beginning when section 116 (2)  came fully into force.

117.6

Failure by the general partners in a limited partnership to comply with
subsection  (2)  is, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, to be
treated by the registrar as reasonable cause to believe that the limited
partnership has been dissolved for the purposes of section  19  of the Limited
Partnerships Act 1907 (registrar’s power to confirm dissolution of limited
partnership) (inserted by section 141 of this Act).

117.7

Where the registrar proposes to rely on a failure by the general partners in
the limited partnership to comply with subsection  (2)  as grounds for
exercising the power in section  19  of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907,
subsections  (2)  to  (4)  of that section (publication of warning notice) do
not apply.

##### The general partners

###### Restrictions on general partners

118

118.1

The Limited Partnerships Act 1907 is amended as follows.

118.2

In section 8A (application for registration)—

118.2.a

after subsection  (1A)  (inserted by section 113 of this Act) insert—

118.2.a.1B

The application must also contain a statement that none of the proposed
general partners is disqualified under the directors disqualification
legislation (see subsection (8)).

;

118.2.b

in subsection (8), at the appropriate place insert—

“disqualified under the directors disqualification legislation”— in relation
to a statement about a person delivered to the registrar for England and Wales
or Scotland, means that the person falls within any of the entries in the
first column of Part 1 of the table in section 159A of the Companies Act 2006;
in relation to a statement about a person delivered to the registrar for
Northern Ireland, means that the person falls within any of the entries in the
first column of Part 2 of that table;

118.3

After section  8I  (inserted by section 116 of this Act) insert—

############ Duty to remove disqualified general partners

############# Duty to remove disqualified general partners

118.3.8J

118.3.8J.1

The general partners in a limited partnership must take any steps that are
necessary to ensure that any general partner in the limited partnership who is
disqualified under the directors disqualification legislation (see subsection
(3) ) ceases to be a general partner.

118.3.8J.2

Examples of the types of steps that the general partners might need to take
include—

118.3.8J.2.a

enforcing any express or implied agreement between the partners;

118.3.8J.2.b

giving any notice, making any application or otherwise acting to dissolve the
limited partnership.

118.3.8J.3

A general partner in a limited partnership is “disqualified under the
directors disqualification legislation” if—

118.3.8J.3.a

where the limited partnership is registered in England and Wales or Scotland,
the general partner falls within any of the entries in the first column of
Part 1 of the table in section 159A of the Companies Act 2006;

118.3.8J.3.b

where the limited partnership is registered in Northern Ireland, the general
partner falls within any of the entries in the first column of Part 2 of that
table.

118.3.8J.4

Subsection  (1)  applies irrespective of whether the general partner concerned
became disqualified under the directors disqualification legislation before or
after this section comes into force.

118.3.8J.5

If the general partners fail to comply with this section an offence is
committed by each general partner who is in default.

118.3.8J.6

But where the general partner is a legal entity, it does not commit an offence
as a general partner in default unless one of its managing officers is in
default.

118.3.8J.7

Where any such offence is committed by a general partner that is a legal
entity, or any such offence is by virtue of this subsection committed by a
managing officer that is a legal entity, any managing officer of the legal
entity also commits the offence if—

118.3.8J.7.a

the managing officer is an individual who is in default, or

118.3.8J.7.b

the managing officer is a legal entity that is in default and one of its
managing officers is in default.

118.3.8J.8

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction—

118.3.8J.8.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

118.3.8J.8.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine not
exceeding one-tenth of level 5 on the standard scale.

118.3.8J.9

A general partner or managing officer is “ in default ” for the purposes of
this section if they authorise or permit, participate in, or fail to take all
reasonable steps to prevent, the contravention.

###### Officers of general partners

119

119.1

The Limited Partnerships Act 1907 is amended as follows.

119.2

In section 3 (interpretation of terms), in subsection (1) (created by section
110 of this Act), at the appropriate place insert—

“ corporate managing officer ” means a managing officer that is a legal
entity;

.

119.3

In section 8A (application for registration), after subsection  (1B)
(inserted by section 118 of this Act) insert—

119.3.1C

The application must be accompanied by a statement by each proposed general
partner that is a legal entity (if any) specifying the name of its proposed
registered officer, who must be an individual—

119.3.1C.a

who is one of the general partner’s managing officers,

119.3.1C.b

who is not disqualified under the directors disqualification legislation (see
subsection (8)), and

119.3.1C.c

whose identity is verified (within the meaning of section 1110A of the
Companies Act 2006).

119.3.1D

The application must also be accompanied by one of the following statements by
each proposed general partner that is a legal entity (if any)—

119.3.1D.a

a statement that the general partner does not have any corporate managing
officers, or

119.3.1D.b

if the general partner has one or more corporate managing officers, a
statement specifying, for each corporate managing officer, the name of the
proposed named contact for the corporate managing officer.

119.3.1E

The proposed named contact for a corporate managing officer must be an
individual who is a managing officer of the corporate managing officer.

119.3.1F

A statement under subsection  (1C)  must—

119.3.1F.a

contain the required information about the proposed registered officer (see
Part 3 of the Schedule), and

119.3.1F.b

be accompanied by a statement by the individual who is the proposed registered
officer confirming that the individual—

119.3.1F.b.i

is one of the general partner’s managing officers,

119.3.1F.b.ii

is not disqualified under the directors disqualification legislation (see
subsection (8)), and

119.3.1F.b.iii

is an individual whose identity is verified (within the meaning of section
1110A of the Companies Act 2006).

119.3.1G

A statement under subsection  (1D)(b)  must—

119.3.1G.a

contain the required information about each proposed named contact specified
in the statement (see Part  4  of the Schedule), and

119.3.1G.b

be accompanied by a statement by each proposed named contact confirming that
the proposed named contact is a managing officer of the corporate managing
officer concerned.

119.4

After section  8J  (inserted by section 118 of this Act) insert—

############ Officers of general partners

############# Duty to maintain registered officer and named contacts

119.4.8K

119.4.8K.1

A general partner that is a legal entity must at all times ensure that its
registered officer is an individual—

119.4.8K.1.a

who is one of its managing officers,

119.4.8K.1.b

who is not disqualified under the directors disqualification legislation (see
subsection  (2) ), and

119.4.8K.1.c

whose identity is verified (within the meaning of section 1110A of the
Companies Act 2006).

119.4.8K.2

The registered officer of a general partner in a limited partnership is
“disqualified under the directors disqualification legislation” if—

119.4.8K.2.a

where the limited partnership is registered in England and Wales or Scotland,
the registered officer falls within any of the entries in the first column of
Part 1 of the table in section 159A of the Companies Act 2006;

119.4.8K.2.b

where the limited partnership is registered in Northern Ireland, the
registered officer falls within any of the entries in the first column of Part
2 of that table.

119.4.8K.3

A general partner that is a legal entity and that has one or more corporate
managing officers must at all times ensure that the named contact for each
corporate managing officer is an individual who is a managing officer of the
corporate managing officer.

119.4.8K.4

In this section “ registered officer ”, in relation to a general partner that
is a legal entity, means—

119.4.8K.4.a

the individual whose name is specified by the general partner in—

119.4.8K.4.a.i

a statement delivered to the registrar under section 8A (1C)  or 8R(4), or

119.4.8K.4.a.ii

a statement delivered to the registrar under section 120 (2)(a)  or 124 (2)(a)
of the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 (transitional
cases),

unless the general partner has changed its registered officer under section
8L (1) , or

119.4.8K.4.b

if the general partner has changed its registered officer under section  8L
(1) , the individual specified in the latest notice under that provision.

119.4.8K.5

In this section “ named contact ”, in relation to the corporate managing
officer of a general partner, means—

119.4.8K.5.a

the individual whose name is specified by the general partner for that
corporate managing officer in—

119.4.8K.5.a.i

a statement delivered to the registrar under section 8A (1D)(b) , 8R(5)(b) or
8N (3) , or

119.4.8K.5.a.ii

a statement delivered to the registrar under section 120 (2)(b)(ii)  or 124
(2)(b)(ii)  of the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023
(transitional cases),

unless the general partner has changed the named contact for that corporate
managing officer under section  8L (2) , or

119.4.8K.5.b

if the general partner has changed the named contact for that corporate
managing officer under section  8L (2) , the individual specified in the
latest notice under that provision.

119.4.8K.6

If a general partner’s registered officer ceases to fall within the
description mentioned in subsection  (1)(a)  or  (b) , the general partner
does not fail to comply with subsection  (1)  by reason of that fact during
the period of 14 days beginning with the day on which the registered officer
so ceases.

119.4.8K.7

If the named contact for a general partner’s corporate managing officer ceases
to be a managing officer of the corporate managing officer, the general
partner does not fail to comply with subsection  (3)  by reason of that fact
during the period of 14 days beginning with the day on which the named contact
so ceases.

############# Change of registered officers and named contacts by general partner

119.4.8L

119.4.8L.1

A general partner may change its registered officer for the purposes of
section  8K (1)  by giving notice to the registrar containing the required
information about the new registered officer (see Part 3 of the Schedule).

119.4.8L.2

A general partner may change the named contact for a corporate managing
officer of the general partner for the purposes of section  8K (3)  by giving
notice to the registrar containing the required information about the new
named contact (see Part  4  of the Schedule).

119.4.8L.3

A notice under subsection  (1)  must—

119.4.8L.3.a

include a statement by the general partner confirming that the new registered
officer is an individual who meets the requirements in section 8K(1)(a) to
(c), and

119.4.8L.3.b

be accompanied by a statement by the individual who is the new registered
officer confirming that the individual meets the requirements in section
8K(1)(a) to (c).

119.4.8L.4

A notice under subsection  (2)  must—

119.4.8L.4.a

include a statement by the general partner that the new named contact for the
corporate managing officer is a managing officer of the corporate managing
officer, and

119.4.8L.4.b

be accompanied by a statement by the individual who is the new named contact
confirming that the individual is an managing officer of the corporate
managing officer.

############# Duty to notify changes in general partner’s registered officer

119.4.8M

119.4.8M.1

A general partner that is a legal entity must give notice to the registrar of
any change in the required information about its registered officer (see Part
3  of the Schedule).

119.4.8M.2

A general partner that is a legal entity must give notice to the registrar of
any change in the required information about its proposed registered officer
that occurred—

119.4.8M.2.a

after the application for registration of the limited partnership in which the
entity is a general partner was delivered to the registrar under section 8A,
but

119.4.8M.2.b

before the limited partnership was registered.

119.4.8M.3

A notice under this section must specify the date on which the change to which
it relates occurred.

119.4.8M.4

A notice under subsection  (1)  must be given within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the change occurs.

119.4.8M.5

A notice under subsection  (2)  must be given within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the limited partnership was registered.

119.4.8M.6

In this section “ registered officer ” has the meaning given by section  8K
(4) .

############# Duty to notify named contact

119.4.8N

119.4.8N.1

A general partner that is a legal entity must give notice to the registrar if
a legal entity becomes a corporate managing officer of the general partner.

119.4.8N.2

A general partner that is a legal entity must give notice to the registrar if
a legal entity became a corporate managing officer of the general partner—

119.4.8N.2.a

after the application for registration of the limited partnership in which the
entity is a general partner was delivered to the registrar under section 8A,
but

119.4.8N.2.b

before the limited partnership was registered.

119.4.8N.3

A notice under this section must include a statement specifying the name of
the proposed named contact for the corporate managing officer.

119.4.8N.4

The proposed named contact for a corporate managing officer must be an
individual who is a managing officer of the corporate managing officer.

119.4.8N.5

The statement must—

119.4.8N.5.a

contain the required information about the proposed named contact specified in
the statement (see Part 4 of the Schedule), and

119.4.8N.5.b

be accompanied by a statement by the proposed named contact confirming that
the proposed named contact is a managing officer of the corporate managing
officer.

119.4.8N.6

A notice under subsection  (1)  must be given within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the legal entity becomes a corporate managing
officer of the general partner.

119.4.8N.7

A notice under subsection  (2)  must be given within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the limited partnership was registered.

############# Duty to notify changes in named contacts

119.4.8O

119.4.8O.1

This section applies where a general partner that is a legal entity has one or
more corporate managing officers.

119.4.8O.2

The general partner must give notice to the registrar of any change in the
required information about the named contact for any corporate managing
officer (see Part 4 of the Schedule).

119.4.8O.3

The general partner must give notice to the registrar of any change in the
required information about the proposed named contact for any corporate
managing officer that occurred—

119.4.8O.3.a

after the application for registration of the limited partnership in which the
entity is a general partner was delivered to the registrar under section 8A,
but

119.4.8O.3.b

before the limited partnership was registered.

119.4.8O.4

A notice under this section must specify the date on which the change to which
it relates occurred.

119.4.8O.5

A notice under subsection  (2)  must be given within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the change occurs.

119.4.8O.6

A notice under subsection  (3)  must be given within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the limited partnership was registered.

119.4.8O.7

In this section “ named contact ” has the meaning given by section  8K (5) .

############# Failure to comply with obligations relating to officers

119.4.8P

119.4.8P.1

If a general partner fails to comply with section  8K ,  8M ,  8N  or  8O  an
offence is committed by—

119.4.8P.1.a

the general partner, and

119.4.8P.1.b

if the general partner is a legal entity, any of its managing officers who is
in default.

119.4.8P.2

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction—

119.4.8P.2.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

119.4.8P.2.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine not
exceeding one-tenth of level 5 on the standard scale.

119.4.8P.3

A managing officer is “ in default ” for the purposes of this section if they
authorise or permit, participate in, or fail to take all reasonable steps to
prevent, the contravention.

119.4.8P.4

But a corporate managing officer does not commit an offence as a managing
officer in default unless one of its managing officers is in default.

119.4.8P.5

Where any such offence is committed by a corporate managing officer the
managing officer in question also commits the offence (subject to subsection
(4) ).

############# Regulations about change of registered officer’s address by registrar

119.4.8Q

119.4.8Q.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision authorising or
requiring the registrar to change a registered service address of a registered
officer of a general partner if satisfied that the address does not meet the
requirements of section 1141(1) and (2) of the Companies Act 2006.

119.4.8Q.2

In this section—

“ registered officer ” has the meaning given by section 8K (4) ; “ registered
service address ”, in relation to a registered officer, means the address for
the time being shown in the register as the registered officer’s current
service address.

119.4.8Q.3

The regulations may authorise or require the address to be changed on the
registrar’s own motion or on an application by another person.

119.4.8Q.4

The regulations—

119.4.8Q.4.a

may include provision corresponding or similar to any provision that may be
included in regulations under section 1097B of the Companies Act 2006;

119.4.8Q.4.b

must include—

119.4.8Q.4.b.i

provision about appeals corresponding to the provision that must be included
in regulations under section 1097B by virtue of subsections (7) and (8) of
that section;

119.4.8Q.4.b.ii

provision corresponding to subsection (9) of that section.

119.4.8Q.5

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative resolution
procedure.

###### Officers of general partners: transitional provision

120

120.1

This section applies in relation to a limited partnership that was registered
under the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 in pursuance of an application for
registration delivered to the registrar before section 119(3) came fully into
force.

120.2

Each general partner that is a legal entity and became a general partner in
the limited partnership on its registration must, within the transitional
period, deliver to the registrar—

120.2.a

a statement of the kind mentioned in section 8A (1C)  of the Limited
Partnerships Act 1907 containing the information, and accompanied by the
statement, mentioned in section 8A (1F)  of that Act (both inserted by section
119 (3)  of this Act), and

120.2.b

either—

120.2.b.i

a statement that the general partner does not have any corporate managing
officers, or

120.2.b.ii

if the general partner has one or more corporate managing officers, a
statement of the kind mentioned in section 8A (1D)(b)  of the Limited
Partnerships Act 1907 containing the information, and accompanied by the
statement, mentioned in section 8A (1G)  of that Act (both inserted by section
119 (3)  of this Act).

120.3

A general partner mentioned in subsection  (2)  is not required by the
provisions mentioned in subsection  (4)  to give notice to the registrar if a
legal entity becomes a corporate managing officer of the general partner
before whichever is earlier of—

120.3.a

the end of the transitional period, and

120.3.b

the delivery of the statement mentioned in subsection  (2)(b) .

120.4

The provisions are—

120.4.a

section  8N (1)  of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by section 119
of this Act), and

120.4.b

so far as it relates to section  8N (1)  of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907,
section  10D (2)(a)  of that Act (inserted by section 126 of this Act).

120.5

In this section—

“ the registrar ” has the same meaning as in the Limited Partnerships Act 1907
(see section 15 of that Act); “ transitional period ” means the period of 6
months beginning when section 119 (3)  came fully into force.

##### Removal of option to authenticate application by signature

###### Removal of option to authenticate application by signature

121

121.1

The Limited Partnerships Act 1907 is amended as follows.

121.2

In section 8A (application for registration), in subsection (1), in paragraph
(c), omit “signed or otherwise”.

121.3

In section 8D (application for designation as a private fund limited
partnership), in subsection (2), in paragraph (e), omit “signed or otherwise”.

##### Changes in partnerships

###### Notification of information about partners

122

After section 8Q of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by section 119
of this Act) insert—

########## Notification of information about partners

########### Duty to notify registrar of change in partners

122.8R

122.8R.1

The general partners in a limited partnership must give notice to the
registrar if a person—

122.8R.1.a

becomes a general partner or limited partner in the limited partnership, or

122.8R.1.b

ceases to be a general partner or limited partner in the limited partnership.

122.8R.2

A notice under subsection  (1)(a)  must contain the required information about
the general partner or limited partner (see Part 2 of the Schedule).

122.8R.3

A notice under subsection  (1)(a)  of a person becoming a general partner must
contain a statement that the new general partner is not disqualified under the
directors disqualification legislation (see section  8J (3)).

122.8R.4

A notice under subsection  (1)(a)  of a legal entity becoming a general
partner must be accompanied by a statement by the general partner specifying
the name of its proposed registered officer, who must be an individual who
meets the requirements in section  8K (1)(a) to (c).

122.8R.5

A notice under subsection  (1)(a)  of a legal entity becoming a general
partner must be accompanied by one of the following statements by the general
partner—

122.8R.5.a

a statement that the general partner does not have any corporate managing
officers, or

122.8R.5.b

if the general partner has one or more corporate managing officers, a
statement specifying, for each corporate managing officer, the name of the
proposed named contact for the corporate managing officer.

122.8R.6

The proposed named contact for a corporate managing officer must be an
individual who is a managing officer of the corporate managing officer.

122.8R.7

A statement under subsection  (4)  must—

122.8R.7.a

contain the required information about the proposed registered officer (see
Part 3 of the Schedule), and

122.8R.7.b

be accompanied by a statement by the individual who is the proposed registered
officer confirming that the individual meets the requirements in section  8K
(1)(a)  to  (1)(c) .

122.8R.8

A statement under subsection  (5)(b)  must—

122.8R.8.a

contain the required information about each proposed named contact specified
in the statement (see Part 4 of the Schedule), and

122.8R.8.b

be accompanied by a statement by each proposed named contact confirming that
the proposed named contact is a managing officer of the corporate managing
officer concerned.

122.8R.9

Subsection  (1)(a)  does not require the general partners, on registration of
the limited partnership, to give notice in relation to a person named as a
proposed general partner or a proposed limited partner in the application for
registration under section 8A.

122.8R.10

A notice under subsection  (1)  must specify the date on which the person
became or ceased to be a general partner or limited partner in the limited
partnership.

122.8R.11

A notice under subsection  (1)  must be given within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the person becomes or ceases to be a general
partner or a limited partner.

########### Duty to notify registrar of changes of information about partners

122.8S

122.8S.1

The general partners in a limited partnership must give notice to the
registrar of any change in the required information about a partner (see Part
2 of the Schedule).

122.8S.2

The general partners in a limited partnership that is not a private fund
limited partnership must give notice to the registrar of any change to the sum
contributed by any limited partner.

122.8S.3

The general partners in a private fund limited partnership that was registered
as a limited partnership before 6th April 2017 must give notice to the
registrar of any withdrawal by a limited partner of the partner’s contribution
which has the effect that the amount of the partner’s contribution is less
than it was on the date on which the limited partnership was designated as a
private fund limited partnership.

122.8S.4

A notice under this section must specify the date on which the change to which
it relates occurred.

122.8S.5

A notice under this section must be given within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the change occurs.

########### Notification of changes occurring before registration

122.8T

122.8T.1

The general partners in a limited partnership must give notice to the
registrar if a person named as a proposed general partner or a proposed
limited partner in the application for registration under section 8A did not
become a general partner or limited partner on registration of the limited
partnership.

122.8T.2

The general partners in a limited partnership must give notice to the
registrar of any change in the required information about a proposed general
partner or a proposed limited partner (see Part 2 of the Schedule) that
occurred—

122.8T.2.a

after the application for the limited partnership’s registration under section
8A was delivered to the registrar, but

122.8T.2.b

before the limited partnership was registered.

122.8T.3

A notice under subsection  (2)  must specify the date on which the change
occurred.

122.8T.4

But the general partners are not required to give notice under subsection  (2)
in respect of a person if they give notice under subsection  (1)  in respect
of the person.

122.8T.5

A notice under this section must be given within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the limited partnership was registered.

########### Failure to notify information about partners

122.8U

122.8U.1

If the general partners fail to comply with section  8R ,  8S  or  8T  an
offence is committed by each general partner who is in default.

122.8U.2

But where the general partner is a legal entity, it does not commit an offence
as a general partner in default unless one of its managing officers is in
default.

122.8U.3

Where any such offence is committed by a general partner that is a legal
entity, or any such offence is by virtue of this subsection committed by a
managing officer that is a legal entity, any managing officer of the legal
entity also commits the offence if—

122.8U.3.a

the managing officer is an individual who is in default, or

122.8U.3.b

the managing officer is a legal entity that is in default and one of its
managing officers is in default.

122.8U.4

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction—

122.8U.4.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

122.8U.4.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine not
exceeding one-tenth of level 5 on the standard scale.

122.8U.5

A general partner or managing officer is “ in default ” for the purposes of
this section if they authorise or permit, participate in, or fail to take all
reasonable steps to prevent, the contravention.

########### Prohibition on acting unless general partner notified

122.8V

122.8V.1

This section applies where—

122.8V.1.a

a person has become a general partner in a limited partnership otherwise than
on its registration, and

122.8V.1.b

notice under section  8R  of the person having done so has not been given
within the period mentioned in subsection  (11)  of that section.

122.8V.2

The general partner may not take part in the management of the partnership
business until notice is given under section  8R .

122.8V.3

If a general partner contravenes subsection  (2)  an offence is committed by—

122.8V.3.a

the general partner, and

122.8V.3.b

if the general partner is a legal entity, any of its managing officers who is
in default.

122.8V.4

But it is a defence for a person charged with an offence under this section to
prove that they reasonably believed that notice had been given under section
8R .

122.8V.5

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction—

122.8V.5.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

122.8V.5.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine not
exceeding one-tenth of level 5 on the standard scale.

122.8V.6

A managing officer is “ in default ” for the purposes of this section if they
authorise or permit, participate in, or fail to take all reasonable steps to
prevent, the contravention.

122.8V.7

But a corporate managing officer does not commit an offence as a managing
officer in default unless one of its managing officers is in default.

122.8V.8

Where any such offence is committed by a corporate managing officer the
managing officer in question also commits the offence (subject to subsection
(7) ).

122.8V.9

The only consequence of contravening subsection  (2)  is the offence provided
for by this section (so that, for example, a contravention does not in any way
affect the validity of the general partner’s actions).

122.8V.10

Nothing in this section shall affect the liability of the general partner for
all debts and obligations of the firm.

########### Regulations about change of general partner’s address by registrar

122.8W

122.8W.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision authorising or
requiring the registrar to—

122.8W.1.a

change a registered service address of a general partner in a limited
partnership if satisfied that the address does not meet the requirements of
section 1141(1) and (2) of the Companies Act 2006;

122.8W.1.b

change the address registered as the principal office of a general partner in
a limited partnership if satisfied that the address is not in fact their
principal office.

122.8W.2

In this section—

“ address registered as the principal office ”, in relation to a general
partner, means the address for the time being shown in the register as the
address of the general partner’s current principal office; “ registered
service address ”, in relation to a general partner, means the address for the
time being shown in the register as the general partner’s current service
address.

122.8W.3

The regulations may authorise or require the address to be changed on the
registrar’s own motion or on an application by another person.

122.8W.4

The regulations—

122.8W.4.a

may include provision corresponding or similar to any provision that may be
included in regulations under section 1097B of the Companies Act 2006;

122.8W.4.b

must include—

122.8W.4.b.i

provision about appeals corresponding to the provision that must be included
in regulations under section 1097B by virtue of subsections (7) and (8) of
that section;

122.8W.4.b.ii

provision corresponding to subsection (9) of that section.

122.8W.5

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative resolution
procedure.

###### New partners: transitional provision about required information

123

123.1

This section applies in relation to a person who—

123.1.a

is a partner in a limited partnership, and

123.1.b

became a partner in the limited partnership before section 122 came fully into
force,

other than a person who became a partner in the limited partnership on its
registration.

123.2

The general partners in the limited partnership must, within the transitional
period, deliver a statement to the registrar specifying the required
information about the partner (within the meaning of the Schedule to the
Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by Schedule 4 to this Act)).

123.3

If a change in the required information about the partner occurs before
whichever is earlier of—

123.3.a

the end of the transitional period, and

123.3.b

the delivery of the statement mentioned in subsection  (2) ,

the general partners in the limited partnership are not required by the
provisions mentioned in subsection  (4)  to give notice to the registrar of
the change, unless it is a change to the partner’s name.

123.4

The provisions are—

123.4.a

section 8S(1) of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by section 122 of
this Act), and

123.4.b

so far as it relates to section 8S(1) of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907,
section  10D (2)(a)  of that Act (inserted by section 126 of this Act).

123.5

In this section—

“ the registrar ” has the same meaning as in the Limited Partnerships Act 1907
(see section 15 of that Act); “ transitional period ” means the period of 6
months beginning when section 122 came fully into force.

123.6

Failure by the general partners in a limited partnership to comply with
subsection  (2)  is, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, to be
treated by the registrar as reasonable cause to believe that the limited
partnership has been dissolved for the purposes of section  19  of the Limited
Partnerships Act 1907 (registrar’s power to confirm dissolution of limited
partnership) (inserted by section 141 of this Act).

123.7

Where the registrar proposes to rely on a failure by the general partners in
the limited partnership to comply with subsection  (2)  as grounds for
exercising the power in section  19  of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907,
subsections  (2)  to  (4)  of that section (publication of warning notice) do
not apply.

###### New general partners: transitional provision about officers

124

124.1

This section applies in relation to a general partner that—

124.1.a

is a legal entity, and

124.1.b

became a general partner before section 122 came fully into force,

other than a legal entity that became a general partner in a limited
partnership on its registration.

124.2

The general partner must, within the transitional period, deliver to the
registrar—

124.2.a

a statement of the kind mentioned in section 8R(4) of the Limited Partnerships
Act 1907 containing the information, and accompanied by the statement,
mentioned in section 8R(7) of that Act (both inserted by section 122 of this
Act), and

124.2.b

either a statement—

124.2.b.i

that the general partner does not have any corporate managing officers, or

124.2.b.ii

if the general partner has one or more corporate managing officers, a
statement of the kind mentioned in section 8R(5)(b) of the Limited
Partnerships Act 1907 containing the information, and accompanied by the
statement, mentioned in section 8R(8) of that Act (both inserted by section
122 of this Act).

124.3

The general partner is not required by the provisions mentioned in subsection
(4)  to give notice to the registrar if a legal entity becomes a corporate
managing officer of the general partner before whichever is earlier of—

124.3.a

the end of the transitional period, and

124.3.b

the delivery of the statement mentioned in subsection  (2)(b) .

124.4

The provisions are—

124.4.a

section  8N (1)  of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by section 119
of this Act), and

124.4.b

so far as it relates to section  8N (1)  of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907,
section  10D (2)(a)  of that Act (inserted by section 126 of this Act).

124.5

In this section—

“ the registrar ” has the same meaning as in the Limited Partnerships Act 1907
(see section 15 of that Act); “ transitional period ” means the period of 6
months beginning when section 122 came fully into force.

###### Notification of other changes

125

125.1

The Limited Partnerships Act 1907 is amended as follows.

125.2

In section 8A (application for registration), in subsection (2), for paragraph
(a) substitute—

125.2.a

the intended general nature of the limited partnership’s business,

.

125.3

Omit section 9 (registration of changes in partnerships).

125.4

After section 10 insert—

############ Notification of other changes in partnerships

############# Duty to notify registrar of other changes in partnerships

125.4.10A

125.4.10A.1

The general partners in a limited partnership must give notice to the
registrar of any change mentioned in subsection  (2) .

125.4.10A.2

The changes are—

125.4.10A.2.a

in the case of any limited partnership, changes to—

125.4.10A.2.a.i

the firm name, or

125.4.10A.2.a.ii

the address of the principal place of business of the limited partnership;

125.4.10A.2.b

in the case of a limited partnership that is not a private fund limited
partnership, changes to—

125.4.10A.2.b.i

the general nature of the limited partnership’s business, or

125.4.10A.2.b.ii

the term or character of the limited partnership.

125.4.10A.3

The notice must specify the date on which the change occurred.

125.4.10A.4

A notice under subsection  (2)(b)(i)  may specify the change to the general
nature of the partnership business by reference to one or more categories of
any system of classifying business activities prescribed by regulations made
by the Secretary of State under section 8A (2A) .

125.4.10A.5

A notice under this section must be given within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the change occurs.

############# Notification of other changes occurring before registration

125.4.10B

125.4.10B.1

The general partners in a limited partnership must give notice to the
registrar if, on registration of the limited partnership, the address of the
principal place of business of the limited partnership is different to that
contained in the application for registration under section 8A.

125.4.10B.2

The general partners in a limited partnership that is not a private fund
limited partnership must give notice to the registrar if, on registration of
the limited partnership, any of the following details are different to those
contained in the application for registration under section 8A—

125.4.10B.2.a

the general nature of the limited partnership’s business,

125.4.10B.2.b

the term of the limited partnership,

125.4.10B.2.c

the amount of the capital contribution of a limited partner, or

125.4.10B.2.d

the form of the capital contribution of a limited partner.

125.4.10B.3

A notice under subsection  (1)  must specify the address of the principal
place of business of the limited partnership.

125.4.10B.4

A notice under subsection  (2)(a) —

125.4.10B.4.a

must specify the general nature of the limited partnership’s business, and

125.4.10B.4.b

may do so by reference to one or more categories of any system of classifying
business activities prescribed by regulations made by the Secretary of State
under section 8A (2A) .

125.4.10B.5

A notice under subsection  (2)(b) ,  (c)  or  (d)  must specify the details
mentioned in the paragraph under which the notice is given.

125.4.10B.6

A notice under this section must be given within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the limited partnership was registered.

############# Failure to notify other changes in partnerships

125.4.10C

125.4.10C.1

If the general partners fail to comply with section  10A  or  10B  an offence
is committed by each general partner who is in default.

125.4.10C.2

But where the general partner is a legal entity, it does not commit an offence
as a general partner in default unless one of its managing officers is in
default.

125.4.10C.3

Where any such offence is committed by a general partner that is a legal
entity, or any such offence is by virtue of this subsection committed by a
managing officer that is a legal entity, any managing officer of the legal
entity who is in default also commits the offence if—

125.4.10C.3.a

the managing officer is an individual, or

125.4.10C.3.b

the managing officer is a legal entity and one of its managing officers is in
default.

125.4.10C.4

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction—

125.4.10C.4.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

125.4.10C.4.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine not
exceeding one-tenth of level 5 on the standard scale.

125.4.10C.5

A general partner or managing officer is “ in default ” for the purposes of
this section if they authorise or permit, participate in, or fail to take all
reasonable steps to prevent, the contravention.

###### Confirmation statements

126

After section 10C of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by section
125 of this Act) insert—

########## Confirmation statements

########### Duty to deliver confirmation statements

126.10D

126.10D.1

The general partners in a limited partnership must, within the period of 14
days after each review period, deliver to the registrar a statement (a
“confirmation statement”) confirming that any information required by
subsection  (2)  is being delivered at the same time as the confirmation
statement.

126.10D.2

The information that must be delivered at the same time as the confirmation
statement is—

126.10D.2.a

a notice of any notifiable change in respect of which a notice under section
8N , 8R, 8S or  10A  has not been delivered,

126.10D.2.b

a notice under section  8F  if—

126.10D.2.b.i

the limited partnership’s registered office is not at an appropriate address
within the meaning given by section  8E (2)  when the confirmation statement
is made, and

126.10D.2.b.ii

the limited partnership has not given a notice under section  8F  that is
awaiting registration by the registrar,

126.10D.2.c

a notice under section  8I  if—

126.10D.2.c.i

the limited partnership’s registered email address is not at an appropriate
email address within the meaning given by section  8H (2)  when the
confirmation statement is made, and

126.10D.2.c.ii

the limited partnership has not given a notice under section  8I  that is
awaiting registration by the registrar,

126.10D.2.d

a notice under section  8L (1)  by each general partner that—

126.10D.2.d.i

is a legal entity,

126.10D.2.d.ii

has a registered officer who does not meet the requirements in section  8K
(1)(a)  to  (c) , and

126.10D.2.d.iii

has not given a notice under section  8L (1)  that is awaiting registration by
the registrar, and

126.10D.2.e

if any general partner that is a legal entity has one or more corporate
managing officers—

126.10D.2.e.i

for which the named contact is not an individual who is a managing officer of
the corporate managing officer, and

126.10D.2.e.ii

in respect of which the general partner has not given a notice under section
8L (2)  that is awaiting registration by the registrar,

a notice under section  8L (2)  by each such general partner in respect of
each such corporate managing officer.

126.10D.3

For the purposes of this section, each of the following is a review period—

126.10D.3.a

where the limited partnership was registered before this section comes fully
into force, the period—

126.10D.3.a.i

beginning with the date of the limited partnership’s registration, and

126.10D.3.a.ii

ending with the period of 6 months beginning when this section comes fully
into force;

126.10D.3.b

where the limited partnership was registered after this section comes fully
into force, the period of 12 months beginning with the date of the limited
partnership’s registration;

126.10D.3.c

each period of 12 months beginning with the day after the end of the previous
review period.

126.10D.4

But a review period may be shortened by the general partners—

126.10D.4.a

notifying the registrar of the shortened review period, and

126.10D.4.b

delivering the confirmation statement within the period of 14 days after that
shortened review period.

126.10D.5

For the purpose of making a confirmation statement, the general partners in a
limited partnership are entitled to assume that information that has been
delivered to the registrar has been properly delivered unless the registrar
has notified the limited partnership otherwise.

126.10D.6

In this section a “ notifiable change ” means a change mentioned in section
8N (1) , 8R(1), 8S(1) to (3) or  10A (2)  that occurred during the review
period.

########### Power to amend matters to be confirmed in confirmation statement

126.10E

126.10E.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make further provision about the
matters that must be confirmed in a confirmation statement delivered under
section  10D (1) .

126.10E.2

The regulations may—

126.10E.2.a

amend or repeal the provisions of section  10D , and

126.10E.2.b

provide for exceptions from the requirements of that section as it has effect
from time to time.

126.10E.3

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative resolution
procedure.

########### Failure to deliver confirmation statement

126.10F

126.10F.1

If the general partners fail to comply with section  10D (1)  an offence is
committed by each general partner who is in default.

126.10F.2

But where the general partner is a legal entity, it does not commit an offence
as a general partner in default unless one of its managing officers is in
default.

126.10F.3

Where any such offence is committed by a general partner that is a legal
entity, or any such offence is by virtue of this subsection committed by a
managing officer that is a legal entity, any managing officer of the legal
entity also commits the offence if—

126.10F.3.a

the managing officer is an individual who is in default, or

126.10F.3.b

the managing officer is a legal entity that is in default and one of its
managing officers is in default.

126.10F.4

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction—

126.10F.4.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

126.10F.4.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine not
exceeding one-tenth of level 5 on the standard scale.

126.10F.5

The contravention continues until such time as the general partners have
delivered the statement required by section  10D (1) .

126.10F.6

A general partner or managing officer is “ in default ” for the purposes of
this section if they authorise or permit, participate in, or fail to take all
reasonable steps to prevent, the contravention.

###### Confirmation statements: Scottish partnerships

127

In regulation 37 of the Scottish Partnerships (Register of People with
Significant Control) Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/694 ) (review period), for
paragraphs (4) and (5) substitute—

127.4

For the purpose of making a confirmation statement, an eligible Scottish
partnership is entitled to assume that information that has been delivered to
the registrar has been properly delivered unless the registrar has notified
the eligible Scottish partnership otherwise.

##### Accounts

###### Power for HMRC to obtain accounts

128

After section 10F of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by section
126 of this Act) insert—

########## Power for HMRC to obtain accounts

########### Power for HMRC to obtain accounts

128.10G

128.10G.1

HMRC may by notice in writing require the general partners in a limited
partnership to—

128.10G.1.a

prepare accounts in accordance with regulations made by the Secretary of State
for the purposes of this paragraph;

128.10G.1.b

deliver those accounts to HMRC, together with—

128.10G.1.b.i

an auditor’s report prepared in accordance with regulations made by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this sub-paragraph;

128.10G.1.b.ii

such supporting evidence as may be required by regulations made by the
Secretary of the State for the purposes of this sub-paragraph.

128.10G.2

A requirement under this section may specify—

128.10G.2.a

the period to which the accounts must relate;

128.10G.2.b

the form and manner in which the documents are to be delivered;

128.10G.2.c

the period within which they are to be delivered.

128.10G.3

HMRC may by notice in writing extend a period specified in a requirement under
this section.

128.10G.4

If the general partners in a limited partnership fail to comply with a
requirement under this section an offence is committed by each general partner
who is in default.

128.10G.5

But where the general partner is a legal entity, it does not commit an offence
as a general partner in default unless one of its managing officers is in
default.

128.10G.6

Where any such offence is committed by a general partner that is a legal
entity, or any such offence is by virtue of this subsection committed by a
managing officer that is a legal entity, any managing officer of the legal
entity also commits the offence if—

128.10G.6.a

the managing officer is an individual who is in default, or

128.10G.6.b

the managing officer is a legal entity that is in default and one of its
managing officers is in default.

128.10G.7

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

128.10G.7.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both);

128.10G.7.b

on summary conviction—

128.10G.7.b.i

in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the general
limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

128.10G.7.b.ii

in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or a fine not
exceeding the statutory maximum (or both) and, for continued contravention, a
daily default fine not exceeding one-fifth of the statutory maximum;

128.10G.7.b.iii

in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a
fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both) and, for continued
contravention, a daily default fine not exceeding one-fifth of the statutory
maximum.

128.10G.8

A general partner or managing officer is “ in default ” for the purposes of
this section if they authorise or permit, participate in, or fail to take all
reasonable steps to prevent, the contravention.

128.10G.9

In this section “ HMRC ” means the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and
Customs.

128.10G.10

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative resolution
procedure.

##### Dissolution, winding up and sequestration

###### Dissolution and winding up: modifications of general law

129

129.1

The Limited Partnerships Act 1907 is amended as follows.

129.2

In section 4 (definition and constitution of limited partnership)—

129.2.a

in subsection (2), after “firm” insert  “(including debts and obligations
incurred in accordance with section 38 of the Partnership Act 1890)” ;

129.2.b

in subsections (2A) and (2B)(b), after “firm” insert  “(including debts or
obligations incurred in accordance with section 38 of the Partnership Act
1890)” ;

129.2.c

in subsection (3), after “firm” insert  “(including debts and obligations
incurred in accordance with section 38 of the Partnership Act 1890)” .

129.3

In section 6 (modifications of general law in case of limited partnerships)—

129.3.a

in subsection (1), after “firm”, in the third place it occurs, insert
“(including debts and obligations incurred in accordance with section 38 of
the Partnership Act 1890)” ;

129.3.b

for subsection (1A) substitute—

129.3.b.1A

Section 6A (actions by limited partners) makes provision supplementing
subsection (1).

;

129.3.c

in subsection (2) omit “or bankruptcy”;

129.3.d

after subsection (2) insert—

129.3.d.2A

A limited partnership shall not be dissolved under section 33(1) of the
Partnership Act 1890 by the bankruptcy of a partner.

129.3.d.2B

A limited partnership is dissolved if—

129.3.d.2B.a

it ceases to have any general partners,

129.3.d.2B.b

it ceases to have any limited partners, or

129.3.d.2B.c

each general partner is either insolvent or disqualified under the directors
disqualification legislation (see section 8J(3)), irrespective of whether they
became insolvent or disqualified before or after this subsection comes into
force.

;

129.3.e

omit subsection (3);

129.3.f

for subsections (3A) and (3B) substitute—

129.3.f.3A

If a limited partnership is dissolved at a time when the partnership has at
least one general partner who is—

129.3.f.3A.a

solvent, and

129.3.f.3A.b

not disqualified under the directors disqualification legislation,

the general partners at that time who are solvent and are not so disqualified
must either wind up the partnership’s affairs or take all reasonable steps to
ensure that its affairs are wound up by a person who is not a partner at that
time.

129.3.f.3B

If a limited partnership is dissolved at a time when the partnership does not
have a general partner who is—

129.3.f.3B.a

solvent, and

129.3.f.3B.b

not disqualified under the directors disqualification legislation,

the limited partners at that time who are solvent must take all reasonable
steps to ensure that the partnership’s affairs are wound up by a person who is
not a limited partner at that time.

129.3.f.3BA

For enforcement of the duties under subsections  (3A)  and  (3B)  see section
29.

;

129.3.g

omit subsection (3C).

129.4

In section 6A (private fund limited partnerships: actions by limited
partners)—

129.4.a

in the heading, omit “private fund limited partnerships:”;

129.4.b

before subsection (1) insert—

129.4.b.A1

A limited partner in a limited partnership is not to be regarded as taking
part in the management of the partnership business for the purposes of section
6(1) merely because the limited partner appoints a person to wind up the
limited partnership pursuant to section 6 (3B) .

;

129.4.c

omit subsection (2)(b);

129.4.d

in subsection (4)—

129.4.d.i

in paragraph (a), omit “private fund”;

129.4.d.ii

omit paragraph (b) and the “or” before it;

129.4.e

after subsection (4) insert—

129.4.e.5

Nothing in subsections (1) to (3) affects the circumstances in which a limited
partner in a limited partnership that is not a private fund limited
partnership may be regarded as taking part in the management of the
partnership business.

###### Dissolution by the court when a partner has a mental disorder

130

130.1

In section 35 of the Partnership Act 1890 (dissolution by the Court), for
paragraph (a) substitute—

130.1.a

When a partner has a mental disorder within the meaning of section 328 of the
Mental Health (Care and Treatment) (Scotland) Act 2003 or section 305 of the
Mental Capacity Act (Northern Ireland) 2016 (as the case may be):

.

130.2

In section 6 of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (modifications of general
law in case of limited partnerships), in subsection (2), omit the words from
“, and” to the end.

###### Winding up limited partnerships on grounds of public interest

131

After section 27 of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by section 144
of this Act) insert—

########## Winding up: applications and petitions to the court

########### Winding up limited partnerships on grounds of public interest

131.28

131.28.1

Where it appears to the Secretary of State that it is expedient in the public
interest for a limited partnership to be wound up, the Secretary of State may
present a petition to the court for it to be wound up.

131.28.2

Where it appears to the Scottish Ministers that it is expedient in the public
interest for a limited partnership registered in Scotland to be wound up, the
Scottish Ministers may present a petition to the court for it to be wound up.

131.28.3

Where it appears to the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland that it
is expedient in the public interest for a limited partnership registered in
Northern Ireland to be wound up, the Department may present a petition to the
court for it to be wound up.

131.28.4

The Secretary of State must consult the Scottish Ministers before presenting a
petition under subsection (1) in respect of a limited partnership registered
in Scotland.

131.28.5

The Secretary of State must consult the Department for the Economy in Northern
Ireland before presenting a petition under subsection (1) in respect of a
limited partnership registered in Northern Ireland.

131.28.6

If a petition is presented under this section, the court may wind up the
limited partnership if the court is of the opinion that it is just and
equitable for it to be wound up.

131.28.7

The power in subsection  (6)  does not limit any other power the court has in
the same circumstances.

###### Winding up dissolved limited partnerships

132

After section 28 of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by section 131
of this Act) insert—

########## Winding up dissolved limited partnerships

132.29

132.29.1

Where a limited partnership is dissolved and it appears to the court that
there has been a failure to wind up the limited partnership under section
6(3A) or (3B) properly or at all, the court may make any order it considers
appropriate, including an order—

132.29.1.a

for the purposes of enforcing the duty in section 6 (3A)  or  (3B) ,

132.29.1.b

in connection with the performance of that duty, or

132.29.1.c

to wind up the limited partnership.

132.29.2

The court may make an order under subsection  (1)  on an application by any of
the following—

132.29.2.a

the Secretary of State;

132.29.2.b

the Scottish Ministers, but only if the limited partnership is registered in
Scotland or they appear to the court to have sufficient interest for any other
reason;

132.29.2.c

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, but only if the limited
partnership is registered in Northern Ireland or the Department appears to the
court to have sufficient interest for any other reason;

132.29.2.d

any other person appearing to the court to have sufficient interest.

132.29.3

The Secretary of State must consult the Scottish Ministers before making an
application for an order under subsection (1) in respect of a limited
partnership registered in Scotland.

132.29.4

The Secretary of State must consult the Department for the Economy in Northern
Ireland before making an application for an order under subsection (1) in
respect of a limited partnership registered in Northern Ireland.

132.29.5

The power in subsection  (1)  does not limit any other power the court has in
the same circumstances.

###### Power to make provision about winding up

133

After section 29 of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by section 132
of this Act) insert—

########## Power to make provision about winding up

133.30

133.30.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision in relation to the
winding up of a limited partnership under section 28 or 29 that corresponds or
is similar to any provision of the Insolvency Act 1986 or the Insolvency
(Northern Ireland) Order 1989 (including any provision of that Act or Order
that relates to the allocation of jurisdiction or distribution of business
between courts in any part of the United Kingdom).

133.30.2

Before making regulations under subsection  (1)  the Secretary of State must—

133.30.2.a

obtain the consent of the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, so
far as the regulations relate to limited partnerships registered in Northern
Ireland;

133.30.2.b

obtain the consent of the Scottish Ministers, so far as the regulations relate
to limited partnerships registered in Scotland.

133.30.3

The provision that may be made by regulations under subsection  (1)  by virtue
of section 38(1) includes provision amending, repealing or revoking provision
made by or under either of the following, whenever passed or made—

133.30.3.a

an Act;

133.30.3.b

Northern Ireland legislation.

133.30.4

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative resolution
procedure.

###### Winding up of limited partnerships: concurrent proceedings

134

134.1

The Limited Partnerships Act 1907 is amended as follows.

134.2

In section 6 (modifications of general law in case of limited partnerships),
for subsection (3D) substitute—

134.2.3D

Subsections (3A) and (3B) have effect subject to any order of a court as to
the winding up of the affairs of the partnership and any award of
sequestration of the partnership’s estate under the Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act
2016.

134.3

After section  30  (inserted by section 133 of this Act) insert—

############ Winding up of limited partnerships: concurrent proceedings

134.3.31

134.3.31.1

Where a petition under section 28 in respect of a limited partnership is
pending, a general partner of the limited partnership who is or becomes aware
of any of the circumstances mentioned in subsection  (3)  must notify the
court to which the petition was presented.

134.3.31.2

Where an application under section 29 in respect of a limited partnership is
pending—

134.3.31.2.a

a general partner of the limited partnership who is or becomes aware any of
the circumstances mentioned in subsection  (3)  must notify the court to which
the application was made, and

134.3.31.2.b

if the application was made by a person other than the Secretary of State, the
applicant must notify the court to which the application was made if the
applicant is or becomes aware of any of the circumstances mentioned in
subsection  (3) .

134.3.31.3

The circumstances are that—

134.3.31.3.a

a petition for sequestration of the limited partnership’s estate under the
Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 2016 is before a sheriff,

134.3.31.3.b

an application to the Accountant in Bankruptcy for sequestration of the
limited partnership’s estate under that Act is pending,

134.3.31.3.c

sequestration has been awarded by virtue of any such petition or application
and the limited partnership’s estate is being sequestrated,

134.3.31.3.d

a trust deed in respect of the limited partnership’s estate has been sent to
the Accountant in Bankruptcy for registration under that Act and the
registration has not been refused,

134.3.31.3.e

a protected trust deed (within the meaning of that Act) is in force in respect
of the limited partnership’s estate,

134.3.31.3.f

an application by the limited partnership for approval of a debt payment
programme under the Debt Arrangement and Attachment (Scotland) Act 2002 is
pending, or

134.3.31.3.g

such a programme has been approved under that Act and has not been completed.

134.3.31.4

A person is not required to notify the court of circumstances under subsection
(1)  or  (2)  if another person has notified the court of those circumstances.

134.3.31.5

If a person fails to comply with subsection  (1)  or  (2)  an offence is
committed by—

134.3.31.5.a

the person, and

134.3.31.5.b

if the person is a legal entity, any of its managing officers who is in
default.

134.3.31.6

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction—

134.3.31.6.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

134.3.31.6.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine not
exceeding one-tenth of level 5 on the standard scale.

134.3.31.7

A managing officer is “ in default ” for the purposes of this section if they
authorise or permit, participate in, or fail to take all reasonable steps to
prevent, the contravention.

134.3.31.8

But a corporate managing officer does not commit an offence as a managing
officer in default unless one of its managing officers is in default.

134.3.31.9

Where any such offence is committed by a corporate managing officer the
managing officer in question also commits the offence (subject to subsection
(8) ).

134.3.31.10

For the purposes of this section a petition or application is “pending” if it
has been presented or made and it has not fallen, been withdrawn or been
determined.

############ Power to amend circumstances for notification under section 

134.3.32

134.3.32.1

The Secretary of State or the Scottish Ministers may by regulations amend the
list in section  31 (3) .

134.3.32.2

Before making regulations under subsection  (1)  the Secretary of State must
obtain the consent of the Scottish Ministers.

134.3.32.3

Regulations made by the Secretary of State under subsection  (1)  are subject
to the affirmative resolution procedure.

134.3.32.4

Regulations made by the Scottish Ministers under subsection  (1)  are subject
to the affirmative procedure (see Part 2 of the Interpretation and Legislative
Reform (Scotland) Act  2010 (asp 10) ).

###### Sequestration of limited partnerships: concurrent winding up proceedings

135

135.1

The Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 2016 is amended as follows.

135.2

In section 17 (concurrent proceedings for sequestration or analogous remedy)—

135.2.a

in subsection (2)(b), after “awarded” insert  “and the debtor’s estate is
being sequestrated” ;

135.2.b

in subsection (2)(c)—

135.2.b.i

omit “has been made”;

135.2.b.ii

after “estate” insert  “is pending” ;

135.2.c

in subsection (2)(d), after “application” insert  “and the debtor’s estate is
being sequestrated” ;

135.2.d

in subsection (2)(g), after “under” insert  “section 28 of the Limited
Partnerships Act 1907,” ;

135.2.e

after subsection (2)(g) insert—

135.2.e.ga

such a petition has been granted,

135.2.e.gb

an application in respect of the debtor is before a court under section 29 of
the Limited Partnerships Act 1907,

135.2.e.gc

such an application has been granted,

;

135.2.f

after subsection (7) insert—

135.2.f.7A

For the purposes of subsection (2)(c), a debtor application is “pending” if it
has been made and has not fallen, been withdrawn or been determined.

135.3

In section 18 (powers in relation to concurrent proceedings)—

135.3.a

in subsection (1), for “(g)” substitute  “(gc)” ;

135.3.b

in subsection (2), for “or (g)” substitute  “, (g), (ga), (gb) or (gc)” ;

135.3.c

in subsection (8), for “(g)” substitute  “(gc)” .

##### The register of limited partnerships

###### The register of limited partnerships

136

136.1

The Limited Partnerships Act 1907 is amended as follows.

136.2

In section 3 (interpretation of terms), in subsection (1) (created by section
110 of this Act), at the appropriate place insert—

“ the register of limited partnerships ” means the records kept by the
registrar under section 1080 of the Companies Act 2006 relating to limited
partnerships;

.

136.3

Omit sections 13 and 14.

136.4

For section 16 substitute—

############ The register of limited partnerships

############# Inspection and copies of the register of limited partnerships

136.4.16

136.4.16.1

Any person may—

136.4.16.1.a

inspect the register of limited partnerships;

136.4.16.1.b

require a copy of any material on the register of limited partnerships that is
available for inspection.

136.4.16.2

The right of inspection extends to the originals of documents delivered to the
registrar in hard copy form if, and only if, the record kept by the registrar
of the contents of the document is illegible or unavailable (see section
1083(1) of the Companies Act 2006 for provision about the retention of hard
copies by the registrar).

136.4.16.3

The registrar may specify the form and manner in which an application is to be
made for inspection or a copy.

136.4.16.4

The registrar may determine the form and manner in which the copies are to be
provided.

136.4.16.5

Section 1091 of the Companies Act 2006 (certification of copies), and any
regulations made under it, apply in relation to copies provided under this
section as they apply in relation to the copies provided as mentioned in that
section.

136.4.16.6

This section has effect subject to section  16A  and  16B .

###### Material not available for public inspection

137

137.1

After section 16 of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by section 136
of this Act) insert—

############ Material not available for public inspection

137.1.16A

137.1.16A.1

The registrar must not make the following material available for public
inspection, so far as it forms part of the register of limited partnerships—

137.1.16A.1.a

any application or other document delivered to the registrar under section 8G,
8Q or 8W (changes of addresses by registrar) other than an order or direction
of the court;

137.1.16A.1.b

so much of any document delivered to the registrar as is required to contain—

137.1.16A.1.b.i

a limited partnership’s registered email address,

137.1.16A.1.b.ii

the email address of the named contact for a general partner’s managing
officer,

137.1.16A.1.b.iii

protected date of birth information, or

137.1.16A.1.b.iv

protected residential address information;

137.1.16A.1.c

so much of any statement delivered to the registrar under any of the following
provisions as is required to confirm that an individual is an individual whose
identity is verified (within the meaning of section 1110A of the Companies Act
2006)—

section 8A(1F)(b); section 8L(3)(a) or (b); section 8R(7)(b);

137.1.16A.1.d

any statement delivered to the registrar by virtue of section 33(3) (documents
to be delivered by authorised corporate service providers);

137.1.16A.1.e

any statement or other document delivered to the registrar by virtue of
section 1067A of the Companies Act 2006 (delivery of documents: identity
verification and authorised corporate service providers);

137.1.16A.1.f

any statement made in accordance with regulations made by virtue of section
1082(2)(c) of the Companies Act 2006 (statement of unique identifier);

137.1.16A.1.g

any document provided to the registrar under section  1092A  of the Companies
Act 2006 (power to require further information);

137.1.16A.1.h

any record of the information contained in a document or part of a document
that is unavailable because of any of the previous paragraphs of this
subsection;

137.1.16A.1.i

any e-mail address, identification code or password deriving from a document
delivered for the purpose of authorising or facilitating electronic filing
procedures or providing information by telephone;

137.1.16A.1.j

any other material excluded from public inspection by or under any other
enactment.

137.1.16A.2

The registrar need not retain material to which subsection  (1)  applies for
longer than appears to the registrar reasonably necessary for the purposes for
which the material was delivered to the registrar.

137.1.16A.3

In this section—

“ protected date of birth information ” means information as to the day of the
month (but not the month or year) on which— a partner was born, or a general
partner’s registered officer was born; “ protected residential address
information ” means information as to the usual residential address of— a
partner, a general partner’s registered officer, or the named contact for a
general partner’s managing officer.

137.1.16A.4

Information about a partner, registered officer or named contact does not
cease to be protected date of birth information or protected residential
address information when they cease to be a partner, registered officer or
named contact.

137.1.16A.5

The restrictions on making information available for public inspection imposed
by subsection  (1)(h)  and  (i)  do not affect the availability for public
inspection of the same information contained in material derived from another
description of document (or part of a document) in relation to which the
relevant restriction does not apply.

137.1.16A.6

In this section “registered officer” and “named contact” have the meanings
given by section  8K (4)  and  (5) .

137.2

In section 1083 of the Companies Act 2006 (preservation of original
documents), in subsection (1), for the second sentence substitute—

This is subject to—

137.2.a

section 1087(3) (extent of obligation to retain material not available for
public inspection);

137.2.b

section  16A (2)  of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (extent of obligation
to retain material not available for public inspection);

137.2.c

section 22(5) of the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022
(extent of obligation to retain material not available for public inspection).

###### Records relating to dissolved or deregistered limited partnerships

138

After section  16A  of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by section
137 of this Act) insert—

########## Records relating to dissolved or deregistered limited partnerships

138.16B

138.16B.1

This section applies where a limited partnership is dissolved or deregistered
under section 26.

138.16B.2

The registrar need not make any information contained in records relating to
the limited partnership available for public inspection at any time after the
end of the period of 20 years beginning with the date on which the limited
partnership is dissolved or deregistered.

138.16B.3

The registrar of companies for England and Wales may, at any time after the
period of two years beginning with the date on which the limited partnership
is dissolved or deregistered, direct that any records relating to the limited
partnership that are held by the registrar are to be removed to the Public
Record Office.

138.16B.4

The registrar of companies for Northern Ireland may, at any time after the
period of two years beginning with the date on which the limited partnership
is dissolved or deregistered, direct that any records relating to the limited
partnership that are held by the registrar are to be removed to the Public
Record Office of Northern Ireland.

138.16B.5

Records in respect of which a direction is given under subsection  (3)  or
(4)  are to be disposed of under the enactments relating to the Public Record
Office or, as the case may be, the Public Record Office of Northern Ireland.

##### Disclosure of information

###### Disclosure of information about partners

139

139.1

The Limited Partnerships Act 1907 is amended as follows.

139.2

After section  16B  of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by section
138 of this Act) insert—

############ Restriction on disclosure of information by registrar

############# Restriction on disclosure of information by registrar

139.2.16C

139.2.16C.1

The registrar must not disclose protected date of birth information or
protected residential address information except—

139.2.16C.1.a

in accordance with subsection  (2)  or  (3) ,

139.2.16C.1.b

in accordance with section  16E  (disclosure of protected residential address
information under court order), or

139.2.16C.1.c

as permitted by section  1110F  of the Companies Act 2006 (general powers of
disclosure by the registrar).

139.2.16C.2

The registrar may disclose protected date of birth information or protected
residential address information if the same information is required to be made
available for public inspection as a result of being contained in a document,
part of a document or record to which section  16A (1)  does not apply.

139.2.16C.3

The registrar may disclose protected date of birth information or protected
residential address information to a credit reference agency.

139.2.16C.4

The Secretary of State may make provision by regulations specifying conditions
for the disclosure of protected date of birth information or protected
residential address information in accordance with subsection  (3) .

139.2.16C.5

The Secretary of State may make provision by regulations requiring the
registrar, on application, to refrain from disclosing protected date of birth
information or protected residential address information to a credit reference
agency.

139.2.16C.6

Regulations under subsection  (5)  may make provision of the kind referred to
in section 243(5) to (6A) of the Companies Act 2006.

139.2.16C.7

In this section—

“ credit reference agency ” means a person carrying on a business comprising
the provision of information relevant to the financial standing of
individuals, being information collected by the agency for that purpose; “
protected date of birth information ” has the meaning given by section  16A
(3) ; “ protected residential address information ” has the meaning given by
section  16A (3) .

139.2.16C.8

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative resolution
procedure.

############ Restriction on use or disclosure of information by partners

############# Restriction on use or disclosure of information by partners

139.2.16D

139.2.16D.1

A limited partner must not—

139.2.16D.1.a

use or disclose protected residential address information, except for
communicating with the individual concerned, or

139.2.16D.1.b

use or disclose protected date of birth information.

139.2.16D.2

A general partner must not use or disclose protected residential address
information, except—

139.2.16D.2.a

for communicating with the individual concerned,

139.2.16D.2.b

in order to comply with any requirement of this Act as to information to be
sent to the registrar, or

139.2.16D.2.c

in accordance with section  16E  (disclosure of residential address
information under court order).

139.2.16D.3

A general partner must not use or disclose protected date of birth information
except in order to comply with any requirement of this Act as to information
to be sent to the registrar.

139.2.16D.4

Subsections  (1) ,  (2)  and  (3)  do not prohibit any use or disclosure of
protected date of birth information or protected residential address
information with the consent of the individual concerned.

139.2.16D.5

If a partner uses or discloses information in contravention of subsection  (1)
,  (2)  or  (3)  an offence is committed by—

139.2.16D.5.a

the partner, and

139.2.16D.5.b

if the partner is a legal entity, any of its managing officers who is in
default.

139.2.16D.6

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction—

139.2.16D.6.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

139.2.16D.6.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine not
exceeding one-tenth of level 5 on the standard scale.

139.2.16D.7

A managing officer is “ in default ” for the purposes of this section if they
authorise or permit, participate in, or fail to take all reasonable steps to
prevent, the contravention.

139.2.16D.8

But a corporate managing officer does not commit an offence as a managing
officer in default unless one of its managing officers is in default.

139.2.16D.9

Where any such offence is committed by a corporate managing officer the
managing officer in question also commits the offence (subject to subsection
(8) ).

139.2.16D.10

In this section—

“ protected date of birth information ” has the meaning given by section  16A
(3) ; “ protected residential address information ” has the meaning given by
section  16A (3) .

############ Disclosure of protected residential address information under court order

############# Disclosure of protected residential address information under court order

139.2.16E

139.2.16E.1

The court may make an order for the disclosure of protected residential
address information by the appropriate limited partnership or by the registrar
if—

139.2.16E.1.a

there is evidence that service of documents at a service address other than
the individual’s usual residential address is not effective to bring them to
the notice of the individual, or

139.2.16E.1.b

it is necessary or expedient for the information to be provided in connection
with the enforcement of an order or decree of the court,

and the court is otherwise satisfied that it is appropriate to make the order.

139.2.16E.2

An order for disclosure by the registrar may be made only if—

139.2.16E.2.a

the appropriate limited partnership does not have the protected residential
address information, or

139.2.16E.2.b

the appropriate limited partnership was dissolved.

139.2.16E.3

The order may be made on the application of a liquidator, creditor or partner
of the appropriate limited partnership, or any other person appearing to the
court to have a sufficient interest.

139.2.16E.4

The order must specify the persons to whom, and purposes for which, disclosure
is authorised.

139.2.16E.5

In this section—

“appropriate limited partnership” — in relation to protected residential
address information about a partner in a limited partnership means that
limited partnership; in relation to protected residential address information
about a registered officer of a general partner in a limited partnership means
that limited partnership; in relation to protected residential address
information about a named contact for the managing officer of a general
partner in a limited partnership means that limited partnership; “ named
contact ” has the meaning given by section  8K (5) ; “ protected residential
address information ” has the meaning given by section  16A (3) ; “ registered
officer ” has the meaning given by section  8K (4) .

139.3

In section 3 (interpretation of terms), in subsection (1) (created by section
110 of this Act), at the appropriate place insert—

“ the court ” has the same meaning as in the Companies Acts (see section 1156
of the Companies Act 2006);

.

##### The registrar's role relating to dissolution, revival and deregistration

###### Duty to notify registrar of dissolution

140

After section 17 of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (power of board of trade
to make rules) insert—

########## Dissolution, revival and deregistration

########### Duty to notify registrar of dissolution

140.18

140.18.1

A person who is a general partner in a limited partnership at a time when it
is dissolved must notify the registrar of the dissolution within the period of
14 days beginning with the day on which the person becomes aware of its
dissolution.

140.18.2

A person who is a limited partner in a limited partnership at a time when it
is dissolved must, if there are no general partners at that time, notify the
registrar of the dissolution within the period of 14 days beginning with the
day on which the person becomes aware of its dissolution.

140.18.3

But no notice is required under subsection  (1)  or  (2)  if—

140.18.3.a

the limited partnership is dissolved under section 19(6) (dissolution on
publication of notice in Gazette),

140.18.3.b

another person has notified the registrar of the dissolution under subsection
(1)  or  (2) , or

140.18.3.c

a dissolution notice under section 19 is published before the end of the
period of 14 days mentioned in subsection  (1)  or  (2) .

140.18.4

If a person fails to comply with subsection  (1)  or  (2)  an offence is
committed by—

140.18.4.a

the person, and

140.18.4.b

if the person is a legal entity, any of its managing officers who is in
default.

140.18.5

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction—

140.18.5.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

140.18.5.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine not
exceeding one-tenth of level 5 on the standard scale.

140.18.6

A managing officer is “ in default ” for the purposes of this section if they
authorise or permit, participate in, or fail to take all reasonable steps to
prevent, the contravention.

140.18.7

But a corporate managing officer does not commit an offence as a managing
officer in default unless one of its managing officers is in default.

140.18.8

Where any such offence is committed by a corporate managing officer the
managing officer in question also commits the offence (subject to subsection
(7) ).

###### Registrar’s power to confirm dissolution of limited partnership

141

141.1

The Limited Partnerships Act 1907 is amended as follows.

141.2

After section 18 of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by section 140
of this Act) insert—

############ Registrar’s power to confirm dissolution of limited partnership

141.2.19

141.2.19.1

If the registrar has reasonable cause to believe that a limited partnership
has been dissolved, the registrar may publish a notice in the Gazette (a
“dissolution notice”) stating that fact.

141.2.19.2

Where the registrar proposes to publish a dissolution notice, the registrar
must first publish in the Gazette a notice (a “warning notice”)—

141.2.19.2.a

explaining the registrar’s proposal and its effect (see subsection  (6) ), and

141.2.19.2.b

inviting any person to make representations about the registrar’s proposal.

141.2.19.3

The registrar must send a copy of the warning notice to—

141.2.19.3.a

the registered office of the limited partnership, and

141.2.19.3.b

at least one person who appears in the register of limited partnerships as a
general partner in the limited partnership (if there are any).

141.2.19.4

The registrar may not publish a dissolution notice until after the end of the
period of two months beginning with the first day on which the registrar has
complied with subsection  (2)  and subsection  (3) .

141.2.19.5

The dissolution notice must—

141.2.19.5.a

state the firm name of the limited partnership,

141.2.19.5.b

state the limited partnership’s registration number, and

141.2.19.5.c

explain the effect of the publication of the notice (see subsection  (6) ).

141.2.19.6

On the publication of a dissolution notice, the limited partnership to which
it relates is dissolved if it was not already dissolved.

141.2.19.7

For the purposes of subsection  (3) , a person “appears in the register of
limited partnerships as a general partner in the limited partnership” if—

141.2.19.7.a

either—

141.2.19.7.a.i

the person was named as a proposed general partner in the application for
registration of the limited partnership under section 8A, or

141.2.19.7.a.ii

the general partners have given the registrar notice under section 8R that the
person has become a general partner in the limited partnership, and

141.2.19.7.b

the general partners have not since—

141.2.19.7.b.i

given the registrar notice under section 8R that the person has ceased to be a
general partner in the limited partnership, or

141.2.19.7.b.ii

given the registrar notice under section 8T that the person did not become a
general partner on registration of the limited partnership.

############ Administrative revival

141.2.20

141.2.20.1

On an application under this section the registrar must revive a limited
partnership if the registrar is satisfied that the following conditions are
met.

141.2.20.2

Condition 1 is that the limited partnership was dissolved under section  19
(6)  (dissolution on publication of notice in Gazette).

141.2.20.3

Condition 2 is that the applicant has delivered to the registrar such
documents as are necessary to ensure that, if the limited partnership is
revived, the records kept by the registrar relating to the limited partnership
will be up to date.

141.2.20.4

Condition 3 is that each relevant person has paid any outstanding fines or
financial penalties imposed on them in respect of an offence—

141.2.20.4.a

under this Act, or

141.2.20.4.b

by virtue of regulations made under section  7A  of this Act,

relating to the limited partnership.

141.2.20.5

An application under this section may only be made by a person who was a
general partner in the limited partnership immediately before it was
dissolved.

141.2.20.6

The application must include a statement that—

141.2.20.6.a

the conditions in subsections  (2) ,  (3)  and  (4)  are met, and

141.2.20.6.b

the applicant is a person mentioned in subsection  (5) .

141.2.20.7

An application under this section may not be made after the end of the period
of six years beginning with the date on which the limited partnership was
dissolved.

141.2.20.8

For the purpose of subsection  (7)  an application is made when it is received
by the registrar.

141.2.20.9

In subsection  (4)  “ relevant person ” means—

141.2.20.9.a

the applicant,

141.2.20.9.b

any person who—

141.2.20.9.b.i

was a general partner in the limited partnership immediately before it was
dissolved, and

141.2.20.9.b.ii

if the limited partnership is revived, will be a general partner in the
limited partnership immediately after its revival, or

141.2.20.9.c

any person who is a managing officer of a legal entity where the legal entity
is—

141.2.20.9.c.i

a person mentioned in paragraph  (a)  or  (b) , or

141.2.20.9.c.ii

a person falling within this paragraph.

############ Registrar’s decision on application for administrative revival

141.2.21

141.2.21.1

The registrar must give notice to the applicant of the decision on an
application under section  20 .

141.2.21.2

If the limited partnership is revived, the revival takes effect on the date
that the notice is sent.

141.2.21.3

If the limited partnership is revived the registrar must—

141.2.21.3.a

enter on the register of limited partnerships a note of the date on which the
revival of the limited partnership takes effect, and

141.2.21.3.b

cause notice of the revival to be published in the Gazette.

141.2.21.4

Notes entered on the register of limited partnerships in accordance with
subsection (3)(a) are part of the register of limited partnerships.

141.2.21.5

The notice under subsection  (3)(b)  must state—

141.2.21.5.a

the limited partnership’s name (which must be the name that it had before it
was dissolved under section  19 (6) ),

141.2.21.5.b

the limited partnership’s registration number, and

141.2.21.5.c

the date on which the revival of the limited partnership takes effect.

############ Effect of administrative revival

141.2.22

141.2.22.1

The general effect of administrative revival is that the limited partnership
is to be treated as having continued in existence as if it had not been
dissolved under section  19 (6) .

141.2.22.2

The court may give such directions and make such provision as seems just for
placing the limited partnership and all other persons in the same position (as
nearly as may be) as if the limited partnership had not been dissolved under
section  19 (6) .

141.2.22.3

An application to the court for such directions or provision may be made at
any time within the period of three years beginning with the date on which the
revival of the limited partnership took effect.

############ Application to court for revival

141.2.23

141.2.23.1

An application may be made to the court to revive a limited partnership that
has been dissolved under section  19 (6)  (dissolution on publication of
notice in Gazette).

141.2.23.2

An application under this section may be made by—

141.2.23.2.a

the Secretary of State,

141.2.23.2.b

a person who was a partner in the limited partnership immediately before it
was dissolved, or

141.2.23.2.c

any other person appearing to the court to have an interest in the matter.

141.2.23.3

An application to the court for the revival of a limited partnership may only
be made—

141.2.23.3.a

within the period of six years beginning with the date on which the limited
partnership was dissolved, or

141.2.23.3.b

where the applicant made an application under section  20  that was refused,
within the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which notice of the
registrar’s decision was sent by the registrar to the applicant.

############ Decision on application for revival by the court

141.2.24

141.2.24.1

If, on an application under section  23 , the court orders revival of the
limited partnership, the revival takes effect on a copy of the court’s order
being delivered to the registrar.

141.2.24.2

The registrar must publish a notice in the Gazette of the revival of the
limited partnership.

141.2.24.3

The notice must state—

141.2.24.3.a

the limited partnership’s name (which must be the name that it had before it
was dissolved under section  19 (6) ),

141.2.24.3.b

the limited partnership’s registration number, and

141.2.24.3.c

the date on which the revival of the limited partnership takes effect.

############ Effect of court order for revival

141.2.25

141.2.25.1

The general effect of an order by the court for revival is that the limited
partnership is to be treated as having continued in existence as a limited
partnership as if it had not been dissolved under section  19 (6) .

141.2.25.2

The court may give such directions and make such provision as seems just for
placing the limited partnership and all other persons in the same position (as
nearly as may be) as if the limited partnership had not been dissolved under
section  19 (6) .

141.2.25.3

The court may also give directions as to—

141.2.25.3.a

the delivery to the registrar of such documents relating to the limited
partnership as are necessary to bring up to date the records kept by the
registrar, or

141.2.25.3.b

the payment of the costs (in Scotland, expenses) of the registrar in
connection with the proceedings for the revival of the limited partnership.

141.3

In section 3 (interpretation of terms), in subsection (1) (created by section
110 of this Act), at the appropriate place insert—

“ the Gazette ” means— as respects limited partnerships registered in England
and Wales, the London Gazette, as respects limited partnerships registered in
Scotland, the Edinburgh Gazette, and as respects limited partnerships
registered in Northern Ireland, the Belfast Gazette;

.

141.4

In section 10 (advertisement in Gazette), omit subsection (2).

###### Registrar’s power to confirm dissolution: transitional provision

142

If the registrar exercises the power in section  19 (1)  of the Limited
Partnerships Act 1907 (power to confirm dissolution of limited partnership)
during the period of 6 months beginning when section 141 (2)  of this Act
comes fully into force, subsections  (2)  to  (4)  of section  19  of the
Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (publication of warning notice) do not apply.

###### Voluntary deregistration of limited partnership

143

After section 25 of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by section 141
of this Act) insert—

########## Voluntary deregistration of limited partnership

143.26

143.26.1

The registrar must deregister a limited partnership if a statement is
delivered to the registrar which is authenticated by or on behalf of each
partner confirming that they want the limited partnership to be deregistered.

143.26.2

The registrar deregisters the limited partnership by publishing a notice in
the Gazette of the limited partnership’s deregistration (a “deregistration
notice”).

143.26.3

The deregistration notice must state—

143.26.3.a

the firm name of the limited partnership, and

143.26.3.b

the limited partnership’s registration number.

143.26.4

On the publication of the deregistration notice, the limited partnership
ceases to be registered as a limited partnership under this Act (but this does
not prevent any ongoing relationship from being a partnership).

###### Removal of limited partnership from index of names

144

After section 26 of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by section 143
of this Act) insert—

########## Removal of limited partnership from index of names

144.27

144.27.1

The registrar must remove a limited partnership from the index of names as
soon as reasonably practicable if the registrar—

144.27.1.a

becomes aware that the limited partnership is dissolved (whether on the
receipt of a notice under section 18, the publication of a dissolution notice
under section 19(6) or otherwise), or

144.27.1.b

publishes a deregistration notice under section 26 in respect of the limited
partnership.

144.27.2

If the registrar removes a limited partnership from the index of names, the
registrar must include a note in the register of limited partnerships stating
either—

144.27.2.a

that the limited partnership has been removed from the index of names because
of its dissolution, or

144.27.2.b

that the limited partnership has been removed from the index of names because
of its deregistration under section 26.

144.27.3

The registrar must also publish a notice of the removal in the Gazette if the
limited partnership is removed from the index of names other than following
the publication of a dissolution notice under section 19 or a deregistration
notice under section 26.

144.27.4

Notes included in the register of limited partnerships in accordance with
subsection  (2)  are part of the register of limited partnerships.

144.27.5

A note may be removed if it no longer serves any useful purpose.

144.27.6

In this section “ the index of names ” means the index kept by the registrar
under section 1099 of the Companies Act 2006.

##### Delivery of documents

###### Delivery of documents relating to limited partnerships

145

After section 32 of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by section 134
of this Act) insert—

########## Delivery of documents to the registrar

########### Documents to be delivered by authorised corporate service providers

145.33

145.33.1

An individual may not deliver a document under a provision listed in
subsection  (3)  to the registrar on their own behalf (and, accordingly, any
delivery of a document under such a provision must be made on the individual’s
behalf in accordance with subsection  (2) ).

145.33.2

An individual may not deliver a document under a provision listed in
subsection  (3)  to the registrar on behalf of another person unless—

145.33.2.a

the individual is an authorised corporate service provider, or

145.33.2.b

the individual is an officer or employee of an authorised corporate service
provider.

145.33.3

The provisions are—

145.33.3.a

section 8A (application for registration);

145.33.3.b

section 8F (change of address of registered office) or  8I  (change of
registered email address);

145.33.3.c

section  8L ,  8M ,  8N  or  8O  (changes relating to officers of general
partners);

145.33.3.d

section 8R, 8S or 8T (changes relating to partners);

145.33.3.e

section  10A  or  10B  (other changes in partnerships), other than a notice
under section  10A (2)(b)(i)  or  10B (2)(a) ;

145.33.3.f

section  10D  (confirmation statements);

145.33.3.g

section  20  (administrative revival).

145.33.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

145.33.4.a

amend this section for the purposes of changing who may deliver a document
under a provision listed in subsection  (3)  to the registrar on behalf of
another person;

145.33.4.b

amend the list in subsection  (3) .

145.33.5

Regulations under subsection  (4)  are subject to the affirmative resolution
procedure.

###### General false statement offences

146

After section 33 of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by section 145
of this Act) insert—

########## False statements: basic offence

146.34

146.34.1

It is an offence for a person, without reasonable excuse, to—

146.34.1.a

deliver or cause to be delivered to the registrar, for the purposes of this
Act, a document that is misleading, false or deceptive in a material
particular, or

146.34.1.b

make to the registrar, for the purposes of this Act, a statement that is
misleading, false or deceptive in a material particular.

146.34.2

Where the offence is committed by a legal entity, every managing officer of
the entity who is in default also commits the offence.

146.34.3

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

146.34.3.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to a fine;

146.34.3.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale;

146.34.3.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on
the standard scale.

146.34.4

A managing officer is “ in default ” for the purposes of this section if they
authorise or permit, participate in, or fail to take all reasonable steps to
prevent, the contravention.

146.34.5

But a corporate managing officer does not commit an offence as a managing
officer in default unless one of its managing officers is in default.

146.34.6

Where any such offence is committed by a corporate managing officer the
managing officer in question also commits the offence (subject to subsection
(5) ).

########## False statements: aggravated offence

146.35

146.35.1

It is an offence for a person knowingly to—

146.35.1.a

deliver or cause to be delivered to the registrar, for the purposes of this
Act, a document that is misleading, false or deceptive in a material
particular, or

146.35.1.b

make to the registrar, for the purposes of this Act, a statement that is
misleading, false or deceptive in a material particular.

146.35.2

Where the offence is committed by a legal entity, every managing officer of
the entity who is in default also commits the offence.

146.35.3

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

146.35.3.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both);

146.35.3.b

on summary conviction—

146.35.3.b.i

in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the general
limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

146.35.3.b.ii

in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or a fine not
exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

146.35.3.b.iii

in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a
fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both).

146.35.4

A managing officer is “ in default ” for the purposes of this section if they
authorise or permit, participate in, or fail to take all reasonable steps to
prevent, the contravention.

146.35.5

But a corporate managing officer does not commit an offence as a managing
officer in default unless one of its managing officers is in default.

146.35.6

Where any such offence is committed by a corporate managing officer the
managing officer in question also commits the offence (subject to subsection
(5) ).

##### National security exemption from identity verification

###### National security exemption from identity verification

147

After section 35 of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by section 146
of this Act) insert—

########## National security exemption from identity verification

########### National security exemption from identity verification

147.36

147.36.1

The Secretary of State may, by written notice given to a person, provide for
one or more of the effects listed in subsection  (2)  to apply in relation to
the person, if satisfied that to do so is necessary—

147.36.1.a

in the interests of national security, or

147.36.1.b

for the purposes of preventing or detecting serious crime.

147.36.2

The effects for which the notice may provide are that—

147.36.2.a

a statement under section 8A(1C) may name the person as a proposed general
partner’s proposed registered officer even if the person does not meet the
requirement in paragraph (c) of that subsection;

147.36.2.b

a statement by the person under section 8A(1F)(b) is not required to confirm
that the person meets the requirement in sub-paragraph (iii) of that
paragraph;

147.36.2.c

where the person is a general partner’s registered officer, section 8K(1)(c)
does not impose any obligation on the general partner;

147.36.2.d

a statement under section 8L(3)(a) or (b) made in relation to a notice naming
the person as a general partner’s new registered officer is not required to
confirm that the person meets the requirement in section 8K(1)(c);

147.36.2.e

a statement under section 8R(4) may name the person as a general partner’s
proposed registered officer even if the person does not meet the requirement
in section 8K(1)(c);

147.36.2.f

a statement by the person under section 8R(7)(b) is not required to confirm
that the person meets the requirement in section 8K(1)(c);

147.36.2.g

section 33 (documents to be delivered by authorised corporate service
providers) does not apply in relation to the delivery of documents to the
registrar by the person on their own behalf or on behalf of another.

147.36.3

For the purposes of subsection  (1)(b) —

147.36.3.a

“ crime ” means conduct which—

147.36.3.a.i

constitutes a criminal offence, or

147.36.3.a.ii

is, or corresponds to, any conduct which, if it all took place in any one part
of the United Kingdom, would constitute a criminal offence, and

147.36.3.b

crime is “serious” if—

147.36.3.b.i

the offence which is or would be constituted by the conduct is an offence for
which the maximum sentence (in any part of the United Kingdom) is imprisonment
for 3 years or more, or

147.36.3.b.ii

the conduct involves the use of violence, results in substantial financial
gain or is conduct by a large number of persons in pursuit of a common
purpose.

##### Service on a limited partnership

###### Service on a limited partnership

148

After section 36 of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by section 147
of this Act) insert—

########## Service of documents

########### Service of documents on limited partnership

148.37

A document may be served on a limited partnership by leaving it at, or sending
it by post to, the limited partnership’s registered office.

##### Application of other laws

###### Application of company law

149

After section 7 of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 insert—

########## Application of company law

149.7A

149.7A.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

149.7A.1.a

make provision in relation to limited partnerships that corresponds or is
similar to any provision relating to companies or other corporations made by
or under, or capable of being made under, any Act;

149.7A.1.b

provide for any such provision which would otherwise have effect in relation
to limited partnerships not to apply to them or to apply to them with such
modifications as appear appropriate.

149.7A.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may amend or repeal provision made by this
Act, the Partnership Act 1890 or the Companies Act 2006.

149.7A.3

The provision which may be made by regulations under subsection  (1)  by
virtue of section  38 (1)  includes provision amending, repealing or revoking
provision made by or under any Act, whenever passed or made.

149.7A.4

Regulations under subsection  (1)  are subject to the negative resolution
procedure if they only make provision that corresponds or is similar to
provision made or capable of being made by regulations subject to the negative
resolution procedure.

149.7A.5

Any other regulations under subsection  (1)  are subject to the affirmative
resolution procedure.

###### Application of Partnership Act 1890 (meaning of firm)

150

In section 4 of the Partnership Act 1890 (meaning of firm), after subsection
(2) insert—

150.3

In relation to a limited partnership registered under the Limited Partnerships
Act 1907, subsection (2) applies only if the limited partnership was
registered by the registrar for Scotland.

##### Regulations

###### Limited partnerships: regulations

151

After section  37  of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by section
148 of this Act) insert—

########## Regulations

########### Regulations

151.38

151.38.1

A power to make regulations under any provision of this Act includes power to
make—

151.38.1.a

consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional or saving provision;

151.38.1.b

different provision for different purposes.

151.38.2

Regulations made by the Secretary of State under this Act are to be made by
statutory instrument.

151.38.3

Where regulations under this Act are subject to “the affirmative resolution
procedure”, the regulations may not be made unless a draft of the statutory
instrument containing them has been laid before and approved by a resolution
of each House of Parliament.

151.38.4

Where regulations under this Act are subject to “the negative resolution
procedure”, the statutory instrument containing the regulations is subject to
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

151.38.5

Any provision that may be made by regulations under this Act subject to the
negative resolution procedure may be made by regulations subject to the
affirmative resolution procedure.

##### Further amendments

###### Limited partnerships: further amendments

152

152.1

Section 17 of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 is omitted.

152.2

Schedule 5 contains consequential amendments relating to this Part.

#### Miscellaneous provision about partnerships

##### Registration of qualifying Scottish partnerships

153

153.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

153.1.a

make provision requiring the delivery to the registrar of information in
connection with a qualifying Scottish partnership;

153.1.b

make provision for the purpose of ensuring that a partner of a qualifying
Scottish partnership has at least one managing officer who is an individual
whose identity is verified (within the meaning of section 1110A of the
Companies Act 2006);

153.1.c

make provision in relation to qualifying Scottish partnerships that
corresponds or is similar to any provision relating to companies or limited
partnerships made by or under, or capable of being made under, any Act.

153.2

The regulations may create summary offences, punishable with a fine, in
connection with any provision made by virtue of subsection  (1)(a)  or  (b) .

153.3

Do not read subsection  (2)  as impliedly limiting the provision that can be
made by virtue of subsection  (1)(c) .

153.4

The provision that may be made by virtue of subsection  (1)(c)  includes
provision for the purpose mentioned in subsection  (1)(b) .

153.5

The provision which may be made by regulations under subsection  (1)  by
virtue of section 217(1)(a) includes provision amending, repealing or revoking
provision made by or under any Act, whenever passed or made.

153.6

In this section—

“ managing officer ” has the meaning given by section 3(1) of the Limited
Partnerships Act 1907; “ qualifying Scottish partnership ” means a
partnership, other than a limited partnership, that— is constituted under the
law of Scotland, and is a qualifying partnership with the meaning given by
regulation 3 of the Partnership (Accounts) Regulations 2008; “ the registrar ”
means registrar of companies for Scotland.

##### Power to amend disqualification legislation in relation to relevant entities: GB

154

After section 22H of the Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986 insert—

######### Power to amend application of Act in relation to relevant entities

154.22I

154.22I.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this Act for the purpose of
applying, or modifying the application of, any of its provisions in relation
to relevant entities.

154.22I.2

For that purpose, the regulations may in particular—

154.22I.2.a

extend the company disqualification conditions to include corresponding
conditions relating to a relevant entity;

154.22I.2.b

limit the company disqualification conditions to remove conditions relating to
a relevant entity;

154.22I.2.c

modify which company disqualification conditions can, in combination with each
other, result in a person being disqualified under this Act;

154.22I.2.d

provide for any of the company disqualification conditions to result in or
contribute to a person being disqualified from acting in a role or doing
something in relation to a relevant entity.

154.22I.3

In this section “ the company disqualification conditions ” means the
conditions that can result in or contribute to a person being disqualified
under this Act from acting in a role or doing something in relation to any
entity.

154.22I.4

In this section a “ relevant entity ” means—

154.22I.4.a

a limited partnership registered under the Limited Partnerships Act 1907;

154.22I.4.b

a limited liability partnership registered under the Limited Liability
Partnerships Act 2000;

154.22I.4.c

a partnership, other than a limited partnership, that is—

154.22I.4.c.i

constituted under the law of Scotland, and

154.22I.4.c.ii

a qualifying partnership within the meaning given by regulation 3 of the
Partnerships (Accounts) Regulations 2008.

154.22I.5

Regulations under this section may make—

154.22I.5.a

consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional or saving provision;

154.22I.5.b

different provision for different purposes.

154.22I.6

The provision which may be made by virtue of subsection  (5)(a)  includes
provision amending provision made by or under either of the following,
whenever passed or made—

154.22I.6.a

an Act;

154.22I.6.b

Northern Ireland legislation.

154.22I.7

Regulations under this section are to be made by statutory instrument.

154.22I.8

A statutory instrument containing regulations under this section may not be
made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by a
resolution of each House of Parliament.

##### Power to amend disqualification legislation in relation to relevant entities: NI

155

155.1

The Company Directors Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order 2002 ( S.I.
2002/3150 (N.I. 4) ) is amended as follows.

155.2

In Article 2(2) (interpretation), for the definition of “regulations”
substitute—

“regulations”, except in Articles 13D and  25D , means regulations made by the
Department subject (except in Article 23(3)) to negative resolution;

.

155.3

After Article 25C insert—

########### Power to amend application of Order in relation to relevant entities

155.3.25D

155.3.25D.1

The Secretary of State or the Department may by regulations amend this Order
for the purpose of applying, or modifying the application of, any of its
provisions in relation to relevant entities.

155.3.25D.2

For that purpose, the regulations may in particular—

155.3.25D.2.a

extend the company disqualification conditions to include corresponding
conditions relating to a relevant entity;

155.3.25D.2.b

limit the company disqualification conditions to remove conditions relating to
a relevant entity;

155.3.25D.2.c

modify which company disqualification conditions can, in combination with each
other, result in a person being disqualified under this Order;

155.3.25D.2.d

provide for any of the company disqualification conditions to result in or
contribute to a person being disqualified from acting in a role or doing
something in relation to a relevant entity.

155.3.25D.3

The Secretary of State must obtain the consent of the Department before making
regulations under this Article.

155.3.25D.4

In this Article “ the company disqualification conditions ” means the
conditions that can result in or contribute to a person being disqualified
under this Order from acting in a role or doing something in relation to any
entity.

155.3.25D.5

In this Article a “ relevant entity ” means—

155.3.25D.5.a

a limited partnership registered under the Limited Partnerships Act 1907;

155.3.25D.5.b

a limited liability partnership registered under the Limited Liability
Partnerships Act 2000;

155.3.25D.5.c

a partnership, other than a limited partnership, that is—

155.3.25D.5.c.i

constituted under the law of Scotland, and

155.3.25D.5.c.ii

a qualifying partnership within the meaning given by regulation 3 of the
Partnerships (Accounts) Regulations 2008.

155.3.25D.6

Regulations under this Article may make consequential, supplementary,
incidental, transitional or saving provision.

155.3.25D.7

The provision which may be made by regulations made by the Secretary of State
by virtue of paragraph  (6)  includes provision amending provision made by or
under either of the following, whenever passed or made—

155.3.25D.7.a

an Act;

155.3.25D.7.b

Northern Ireland legislation.

155.3.25D.8

The provision which may be made by regulations made by the Department by
virtue of paragraph (6) includes provision amending provision made by or under
Northern Ireland legislation, whenever passed or made.

155.3.25D.9

Regulations made by the Secretary of State under this Article are to be made
by statutory instrument.

155.3.25D.10

A statutory instrument containing regulations made by the Secretary of State
under this Article may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been
laid before and approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

155.3.25D.11

Regulations made by the Department under this Article are subject to negative
resolution.

### Register of overseas entities

#### The register and registration

##### Register of overseas entities

156

In section 3 of the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022, in
subsection (2)—

156.a

in paragraph (b), omit “, or otherwise in connection with the register”;

156.b

after paragraph (b) (but before the “and” at the end) insert—

156.b.ba

documents delivered to the registrar under or by virtue of Part 35 of the
Companies Act 2006 in connection with the register or the delivery of other
documents that, on registration, will form part of the register,

.

##### Required information about overseas entities: address information

157

In the following provisions of Schedule 1 to the Economic Crime (Transparency
and Enforcement) Act 2022 (which refer to an entity’s registered or principal
office) omit “registered or”—

paragraph 2(1)(c); paragraph 5(1)(b); paragraph 6(1)(d); paragraph 7(1)(b).

##### Registration of information about land

158

In Schedule 1 to the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022
(required information), in paragraph 2—

158.a

in sub-paragraph (1), after paragraph (g) insert—

158.a.h

if the entity is the registered proprietor of one or more qualifying estates
in land in England and Wales, the title number of each of them;

158.a.i

if the entity is the registered owner of one or more qualifying estates in
Northern Ireland, the folio number in respect of each of them;

158.a.j

if the entity is—

158.a.j.i

entered as proprietor in the proprietorship section of the title sheet for one
or more plots of land that are registered in the Land Register of Scotland, or

158.a.j.ii

the tenant under one or more leases registered in the Land Register of
Scotland,

the title number of the title sheet, in respect of each of them, in which the
entity’s interest is registered.

;

158.b

after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

158.b.3

In sub-paragraph (1) (h) —

“ registered proprietor ”, in relation to a qualifying estate, means the
person entered as proprietor of the estate in the register of title kept by
the Chief Land Registrar; “ qualifying estate ” has the meaning given by
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4A to the Land Registration Act 2002.

158.b.4

In sub-paragraph (1) (i) —

“ registered owner ”, in relation to a qualifying estate, means the person
registered in the register kept under the  Land Registration Act (Northern
Ireland) 1970 (c. 18 (N.I.))  as the owner of the estate; “ qualifying estate
” has the meaning given by paragraph 1 of Schedule 8A to the Land Registration
Act (Northern Ireland) 1970.

158.b.5

In sub-paragraph (1) (j) —

158.b.5.a

“ lease ”, “ plot of land ” and “ proprietor ” have the meanings given by
section 113(1) of the Land Registration etc. (Scotland) Act 2012;

158.b.5.b

the reference to an entity’s being entered as proprietor in the proprietorship
section of a title sheet is a reference to the name of the entity being so
entered.

##### Registration of information about trusts

159

159.1

Paragraph 8 of Schedule 1 to the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement)
Act 2022 (required information) is amended as follows.

159.2

In sub-paragraph (1), for paragraphs (d) to (f) substitute—

159.2.d

the specified details of each beneficiary under the trust;

159.2.e

the specified details of each settlor or grantor and, in relation to any
settlor or grantor that is a legal entity, the specified details of any person
who at the time at which the trust is settled—

159.2.e.i

is a registrable beneficial owner in relation to that entity (if it is
overseas entity), or

159.2.e.ii

would be a registrable beneficial owner in relation to the entity if that
entity were an overseas entity;

159.2.f

the specified details of any interested person under the trust and the date on
which they became an interested person.

159.3

After sub-paragraph (1) insert—

159.3.1A

In sub-paragraph (1)(d) to (f) “the specified details”—

159.3.1A.a

in relation to a person who is an individual, means—

159.3.1A.a.i

name, date of birth and nationality;

159.3.1A.a.ii

usual residential address;

159.3.1A.a.iii

a service address;

159.3.1A.b

in relation to a person that is a legal entity, means—

159.3.1A.b.i

name;

159.3.1A.b.ii

principal office;

159.3.1A.b.iii

a service address;

159.3.1A.b.iv

the legal form of the entity and the law by which it is governed;

159.3.1A.b.v

any public register in which it is entered and, if applicable, its
registration number in that register.

159.4

In sub-paragraph (2), for “sub-paragraph (1)(c)” substitute  “sub-paragraphs
(1)(c) and (1A)(a)” .

##### Registration of information about managing officers: age limits

160

160.1

Schedule 1 to the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022
(applications: required information) is amended as follows.

160.2

In paragraph 6(1), after paragraph (f) insert—

160.2.g

if the officer is under the age of 16 years old, the name and contact details
of an individual who is at least 16 years old and is willing to be contacted
about the officer.

160.3

In paragraph 7(1), for paragraph (g) substitute—

160.3.g

the name and contact details of an individual who is at least 16 years old and
is willing to be contacted about the officer.

##### Registrable beneficial owners: cases involving trusts

161

161.1

Schedule 2 to the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022
(registrable beneficial owners) is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)
to  (5) .

161.2

In paragraph 3 (legal entities), in paragraph (b), after “(see Part 3)” insert
“or is a beneficial owner of the overseas entity by virtue of being a trustee”
.

161.3

In paragraph 8 (beneficial owners exempt from registration), after paragraph
(b) insert—

161.3.ba

the person is not a beneficial owner of the overseas entity by virtue of being
a trustee,

.

161.4

For the heading of Part 6 substitute  “Powers to amend this Schedule” .

161.5

Before paragraph 25 insert—

########### Expansion of meaning of “registrable beneficial owner” where trusts in view

161.5.24A

161.5.24A.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this Schedule so as to expand
the description of persons who are registrable beneficial owners of an
overseas entity in circumstances where the overseas entity is part of a chain
of entities that includes a trustee.

161.5.24A.2

For these purposes an overseas entity is part of a chain of entities that
includes a trustee if there is a legal entity which is a beneficial owner of
it by virtue of being a trustee.

161.5.24A.3

Regulations under this paragraph are subject to the affirmative resolution
procedure.

Power to amend thresholds etc

.

161.6

Regulation 14 of the Register of Overseas Entities (Delivery, Protection and
Trust Services) Regulations 2022 ( S.I. 2022/870 ) (description of legal
entity subject to its own disclosure requirements) is revoked.

##### Registrable beneficial owners: nominees

162

162.1

The Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022 is amended as
follows.

162.2

In Schedule 1 (required information)—

162.2.a

in paragraph 3(1), for paragraphs (e) and (f) substitute—

162.2.a.e

whether the individual is a registrable beneficial owner by virtue of
paragraph 2(1) of Schedule 2 or paragraph 2(2) of that Schedule;

162.2.a.f

if the individual is a registrable beneficial owner by virtue of paragraph
2(1) of Schedule 2—

162.2.a.f.i

a statement as to which of the conditions in paragraph 6 of that Schedule is
met and why, and

162.2.a.f.ii

a statement as to whether that condition is met by virtue of the individual
being a trustee;

162.2.a.fa

if the individual is a registrable beneficial owner by virtue of paragraph
2(2) of Schedule 2, a statement as to which of the conditions in paragraph 6A
of that Schedule is met and why;

;

162.2.b

in paragraph 4, for sub-paragraph (f) substitute—

162.2.b.f

whether the government or public authority is a registrable beneficial owner
by virtue of paragraph 4(1) of Schedule 2 or paragraph 4(2) of that Schedule;

162.2.b.fa

if the government or public authority is a registrable beneficial owner by
virtue of paragraph 4(1) of Schedule 2, a statement as to which of the
conditions in paragraph 6 of that Schedule is met and why;

162.2.b.fb

if the government or public authority is a registrable beneficial owner by
virtue of paragraph 4(2) of Schedule 2, a statement as to which of the
conditions in paragraph 6A of that Schedule is met and why;

;

162.2.c

in paragraph 5(1), for paragraphs (g) and (h) substitute—

162.2.c.g

whether the entity is a registrable beneficial owner by virtue of paragraph
3(1) of Schedule 2 or paragraph 3(2) of that Schedule;

162.2.c.h

if the entity is a registrable beneficial owner by virtue of paragraph 3(1) of
Schedule 2—

162.2.c.h.i

a statement as to which of the conditions in paragraph 6 of that Schedule is
met and why, and

162.2.c.h.ii

a statement as to whether that condition is met by virtue of the entity being
a trustee;

162.2.c.ha

if the entity is a registrable beneficial owner by virtue of paragraph 3(2) of
Schedule 2, a statement as to which of the conditions in paragraph 6A of that
Schedule is met and why;

.

162.3

In Schedule 2 (registrable beneficial owners)—

162.3.a

in paragraph 2—

162.3.a.i

the existing text becomes sub-paragraph (1);

162.3.a.ii

in paragraph (a) of that sub-paragraph, for “(see Part 2)” substitute  “by
virtue of paragraph 6” ;

162.3.a.iii

after that sub-paragraph insert—

162.3.a.iii.2

An individual is also a “ registrable beneficial owner ” in relation to an
overseas entity if the individual is treated as a beneficial owner of the
overseas entity by virtue of paragraph 6A.

;

162.3.b

in paragraph 3—

162.3.b.i

the existing text becomes sub-paragraph (1);

162.3.b.ii

in paragraph (a) of that sub-paragraph, for “(see Part 2)” substitute  “by
virtue of paragraph 6” ;

162.3.b.iii

after that sub-paragraph insert—

162.3.b.iii.2

A legal entity other than a government or public authority is also a “
registrable beneficial owner ” in relation to an overseas entity if it is
treated as a beneficial owner of the overseas entity by virtue of paragraph
6A.

;

162.3.c

in paragraph 4—

162.3.c.i

the existing text becomes sub-paragraph (1);

162.3.c.ii

in that sub-paragraph, for “(see Part 2)” substitute  “by virtue of paragraph
6” ;

162.3.c.iii

after that sub-paragraph insert—

162.3.c.iii.2

A government or public authority is also a “ registrable beneficial owner ” in
relation to an overseas entity if it is treated as a beneficial owner of the
overseas entity by virtue of paragraph 6A.

;

162.3.d

after paragraph 6 insert—

############# Persons treated as beneficial owners where entity holds land as nominee

162.3.d.6A

A person (“ X ”) is to be treated as a beneficial owner of an overseas entity
(“ Y ”) if one or more of the following conditions are met.

Y holds land in England or Wales as nominee for X Condition 1 is that Y— is
registered in the register of title kept under the Land Registration Act 2002
as the proprietor of a qualifying estate within the meaning of Schedule 4A to
that Act, became so registered in pursuance of an application made on or after
1 January 1999, and holds the qualifying estate as nominee for— X, or an
entity of which X is a beneficial owner by virtue of paragraph 6. Y holds land
in Scotland as nominee for X Condition 2 is that— Y— holds an interest in land
by virtue of being entered, on or after 8 December 2014, as proprietor in the
proprietorship section of the title sheet for a plot of land that is
registered in the Land Register of Scotland, is, in relation to a lease that
was recorded in the General Register of Sasines or registered in the Land
Register of Scotland before that date, by virtue of an assignation of the
lease registered in the Land Register of Scotland on or after that date, the
tenant under the lease, or is the tenant under a lease that was registered in
the Land Register of Scotland on or after that date, and Y holds the interest
in land referred to in paragraph (a)(i), (ii) or (iii) as nominee for— X, or
an entity of which X is a beneficial owner by virtue of paragraph 6. Y holds
land in Northern Ireland as nominee for X Condition 3 is that Y— is registered
in the register kept under the  and Registration Act (Northern Ireland) 1970
(c. 18 (N.I.))  as the owner of a qualifying estate within the meaning of
Schedule 8A to that Act, became so registered on or after the day on which
that Schedule came into force, and holds the qualifying estate as nominee for—
X, or an entity of which X is a beneficial owner by virtue of paragraph 6.

;

162.3.e

in paragraph 8, for “paragraphs 2(b) and 3(c)” substitute  “paragraphs 2(1)(b)
and 3(1)(c)” .

##### Information about changes in beneficiaries under trusts

163

163.1

Schedule 6 (duty to deliver information about changes in beneficiaries)
imposes further duties on registered overseas entities to deliver information.

163.2

The amendments made by paragraph  2  of Schedule 6 do not apply in relation to
any statements or information delivered to the registrar under section 7 of
the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022 during the period
of 3 months beginning when that paragraph comes fully into force.

##### Applications for removal

164

164.1

Section 10 of the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022
(processing of application for removal) is amended as follows.

164.2

In subsection (2), after “land” insert  “and there are no updates pending” .

164.3

In subsection (3), after “land” insert  “or there is an update pending” .

164.4

After subsection (3) insert—

164.4.3A

For the purposes of subsections (2) and (3) an update is pending if—

164.4.3A.a

an update period for the entity has ended and the entity has not yet complied
with the duty under section 7 in respect of that period, or

164.4.3A.b

the entity is required to deliver information under Schedule 6 but has not yet
done so.

##### Verification of registrable beneficial owners and managing officers

165

165.1

Section 16 of the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022
(verification of registrable beneficial owners and managing officers) is
amended as follows.

165.2

In subsection (2)—

165.2.a

after paragraph (a) insert—

165.2.a.aa

about how the information is to be verified (including provision about the
kinds or sources of evidence to be used);

165.2.a.ab

about the standard to which verification is to be carried out;

;

165.2.b

after paragraph (b) insert—

165.2.b.ba

about the records that must be kept in connection with verification;

;

165.2.c

after paragraph (d) (inserted by section 166 of this Act) insert—

165.2.c.e

about the information that must be provided to the registrar to enable the
registrar to monitor compliance with any requirements imposed by the
regulations.

165.3

After subsection (2) insert—

165.3.2A

Regulations under this section may create offences in relation to failures to
comply with requirements imposed by virtue of subsection (2)(ba) or (e).

165.3.2B

The regulations must provide for any such offence to be punishable—

165.3.2B.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, by a fine;

165.3.2B.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, by a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale;

165.3.2B.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, by a fine not exceeding level 5 on
the standard scale.

#### Inspection of the register and protection of information

##### Material unavailable for public inspection: verification information

166

In section 16 of the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022
(verification of registrable beneficial owners and managing officers), in
subsection (2), after paragraph (c) insert—

166.d

requiring the registrar not to make available for public inspection certain
information delivered to the registrar by virtue of the regulations;

##### Material unavailable for public inspection

167

For sections 22 to 24 of the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act
2022 substitute—

######### Material unavailable for inspection

167.22

167.22.1

The following material must not, so far as it forms part of the register, be
made available by the registrar for public inspection—

167.22.1.a

so much of any application or other document delivered to the registrar under
section 4, 7 or 9 or Schedule 6 as is required to contain—

167.22.1.a.i

protected date of birth information;

167.22.1.a.ii

protected residential address information;

167.22.1.a.iii

protected trusts information;

167.22.1.a.iv

the name or contact details of an individual provided for the purposes of
section 4(1)(d), 7(1)(e) or 9(1)(f), paragraph 6(1)(g) or 7(1)(g) of Schedule
1 or paragraph 2(1)(d) of Schedule 6;

167.22.1.a.v

an overseas entity’s email address (see paragraph 2(1)(e) of Schedule 1);

167.22.1.a.vi

any title numbers or folio numbers in respect of land (see paragraph 2(1)(h),
(i) and (j) of Schedule 1);

167.22.1.b

any information that regulations under section 16 provide is not to be made
available for public inspection;

167.22.1.c

any application or other document delivered to the registrar under regulations
under section 23 (2)  (disclosure of protected trusts information);

167.22.1.d

the following—

167.22.1.d.i

any application or other document delivered to the registrar under regulations
under section 25 (regulations protecting material), other than information
provided by virtue of section 25(4);

167.22.1.d.ii

any information which regulations under section 25 require not to be made
available for public inspection;

167.22.1.e

any application or other document delivered to the registrar under section 28
(administrative removal of material from the register);

167.22.1.f

any court order under section 30 (rectification of the register under court
order) that the court has directed under section 31 is not to be made
available for public inspection;

167.22.1.g

any statement or other document delivered to the registrar by virtue of
section 1067A of the Companies Act 2006 (delivery of documents: identity
verification requirements etc);

167.22.1.h

any statement made in accordance with regulations made by virtue of section
1082(2)(c) of the Companies Act 2006 (statement of unique identifier);

167.22.1.i

any document provided to the registrar under section 1092A of the Companies
Act 2006 (power to require further information);

167.22.1.j

any email address, identification code or password deriving from a document
delivered for the purpose of authorising or facilitating electronic filing
procedures or providing information by telephone;

167.22.1.k

any record of the information contained in a document (or part of a document)
mentioned in any of the previous paragraphs of this subsection;

167.22.1.l

any other material excluded from public inspection by or under any other
enactment.

167.22.2

In this section—

“ protected date of birth information ” means information as to the day of the
month (but not the month or year) on which an individual who is a registrable
beneficial owner or managing officer of an overseas entity was born; “
protected residential address information ” means information as to the usual
residential address of an individual who is a registrable beneficial owner or
managing officer of an overseas entity; “ protected trusts information ”
means— the required information about a trust (see sections 4(3)(a), 7(3)(a)
and (4)(a) and 9(3)(a) and (4)(a) and paragraphs 3(2)(a), 4(2)(a) and 5(2)(a)
of Schedule 6), or any information required by virtue of section 7(3)(c) or
(4)(c) or 9(3)(c) or (4)(c) or paragraph 4(2)(c) of Schedule 6 (information
about beneficiaries).

167.22.3

Information about a registrable beneficial owner or managing officer does not
cease to be protected date of birth information or protected residential
address information when they cease to be a registrable beneficial owner or
managing officer.

167.22.4

Where subsection (1), or a provision referred to in subsection (1), imposes a
restriction by reference to material deriving from a particular description of
document (or part of a document), that does not affect the availability for
public inspection of the same information contained in material derived from
another description of document (or part of a document) in relation to which
no such restriction applies.

167.22.5

The registrar need not retain material to which subsection (1) applies for
longer than appears to the registrar reasonably necessary for the purposes for
which the material was delivered to the registrar.

######### Disclosure of protected information

167.23

167.23.1

The registrar must not disclose protected date of birth information, protected
residential address information or protected trusts information unless—

167.23.1.a

the disclosure is permitted by section 1110F of the Companies Act 2006
(general powers of disclosure by the registrar),

167.23.1.b

the information is required to be made available for public inspection (as a
result of being contained in a document, part of a document, or record to
which section  22 (1)  does not apply), or

167.23.1.c

the disclosure is permitted by regulations under subsection  (2) .

167.23.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision requiring the
registrar, on application, to disclose relevant protected trusts information
to a person (unless required to refrain from doing so by regulations under
section 25).

167.23.3

In subsection  (2)  “ relevant protected trusts information ” means protected
trusts information other than information as to—

167.23.3.a

the day of the month (but not the month or year) on which an individual was
born, or

167.23.3.b

the usual residential address of an individual.

167.23.4

The regulations may make provision as to—

167.23.4.a

who may make an application;

167.23.4.b

the grounds on which an application may be made;

167.23.4.c

the information to be included in and documents to accompany an application;

167.23.4.d

the notice to be given of an application and of its outcome;

167.23.4.e

how an application is to be determined.

167.23.5

Provision under subsection  (4)(e)  may in particular provide for a question
to be referred to a person other than the registrar for the purposes of
determining the application.

167.23.6

The regulations may include provision authorising or requiring the registrar
to impose conditions subject to which the information is disclosed (including
conditions restricting its use or further disclosure).

167.23.7

The regulations may create offences in relation to failures to comply with
conditions imposed by virtue of subsection  (6) .

167.23.8

The regulations must provide for any such offence to be punishable—

167.23.8.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, by a fine;

167.23.8.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, by a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale;

167.23.8.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, by a fine not exceeding level 5 on
the standard scale.

167.23.9

Regulations under this section may in particular confer a discretion on the
registrar.

167.23.10

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

167.23.11

In this section the following have the meaning given by section  22 (2) —

“protected date of birth information”; “protected residential address
information”; “protected trusts information”.

######### Consultation about regulations under section 23

167.24

167.24.1

The Secretary of State must consult the Scottish Ministers before making
regulations under section 23 that contain provision that would be within the
legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if contained in an Act of
that Parliament.

167.24.2

The Secretary of State must consult the Department of Finance in Northern
Ireland before making regulations under section 23 that contain provision
that—

167.24.2.a

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

167.24.2.b

would not, if contained in a Bill for an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State under
section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998.

##### Protection of information

168

For section 25 of the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022
substitute—

######### Power to make regulations protecting material

168.25

168.25.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision requiring the
registrar, on application—

168.25.1.a

not to make available for public inspection any information on the register
relating to an individual;

168.25.1.b

to refrain from disclosing information on the register relating to an
individual except in specified circumstances;

168.25.1.c

not to make available for public inspection any address on the register that
is not information to which paragraph  (a)  applies;

168.25.1.d

to refrain from disclosing any such address except in specified circumstances.

168.25.2

The regulations may make provision as to—

168.25.2.a

who may make an application;

168.25.2.b

the grounds on which an application may be made;

168.25.2.c

the information to be included in and documents to accompany an application;

168.25.2.d

the notice to be given of an application and of its outcome;

168.25.2.e

how an application is to be determined;

168.25.2.f

the duration of, and procedures for revoking, any restrictions on the making
of information available for public inspection or its disclosure.

168.25.3

Provision under subsection  (2)(e)  or  (2)(f)  may in particular provide for
a question to be referred to a person other than the registrar for the
purposes of determining the application or revoking the restrictions.

168.25.4

Regulations under subsection  (1)(a)  or  (1)(c)  may provide that information
is not to be made unavailable for public inspection unless the person to whom
it relates provides such alternative information as may be specified.

168.25.5

The circumstances that may be specified under subsection  (1)(b)  or  (d)  by
way of an exception to a restriction on disclosure include circumstances where
the court has made an order, in accordance with the regulations, authorising
disclosure.

168.25.6

Regulations under subsection  (1)(b)  or  (d)  may not require the registrar
to refrain from disclosing information under section 1110F of the Companies
Act 2006 (general powers of disclosure by the registrar).

168.25.7

Regulations under this section may impose a duty on the registrar to publish,
in relation to such periods as may be specified—

168.25.7.a

details of how many applications have been made under the regulations and how
many of them have been allowed, and

168.25.7.b

such other details in connection with applications under the regulations as
may be specified in the regulations.

168.25.8

Regulations under this section may in particular confer a discretion on the
registrar.

168.25.9

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

#### Correction or removal of material on the register

##### Resolving inconsistencies in the register

169

169.1

Section 27 of the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022
(resolving inconsistencies in the register) is amended as follows.

169.2

For subsections (1) and (2) substitute—

169.2.1

Where it appears to the registrar that the information contained in a document
delivered to the registrar by an overseas entity in connection with the
register is inconsistent with other information contained in records kept by
the registrar under section 1080 of the Companies Act 2006, the registrar may
give notice to the overseas entity to which the document relates—

169.2.1.a

stating in what respects the information contained in it appears to be
inconsistent with other information in records kept by the registrar under
section 1080 of the Companies Act 2006, and

169.2.1.b

requiring the overseas entity, within the period of 14 days beginning with the
date on which the notice is issued, to take all such steps as are reasonably
open to it to resolve the inconsistency by delivering replacement or
additional documents or in any other way.

169.2.2

The notice must state the date on which it is issued.

169.3

In the heading, omit “in the register”.

##### Administrative removal of material from register

170

170.1

In the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022—

170.1.a

for section 28 substitute—

############# Administrative removal of material from the register

170.1.a.28

170.1.a.28.1

The registrar may remove from the register anything that appears to the
registrar to be—

170.1.a.28.1.a

a document, or material derived from a document, accepted under section 1073
of the Companies Act 2006 (power to accept documents not meeting requirements
for proper delivery), or

170.1.a.28.1.b

unnecessary material as defined by section 1074 of the Companies Act 2006.

170.1.a.28.2

The power to remove material from the register under this section may be
exercised—

170.1.a.28.2.a

on the registrar’s own motion, or

170.1.a.28.2.b

on an application made in accordance with regulations under section  28A (2) .

170.1.a.28.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that the registrar’s power
to remove material from the register under this section following an
application is limited to material of a description specified in the
regulations.

170.1.a.28.4

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative resolution
procedure.

############# Further provision about removal of material from the register

170.1.a.28A

170.1.a.28A.1

The Secretary of State must by regulations make provision for notice to be
given in accordance with the regulations where material is removed from the
register under section  28  otherwise than on an application.

170.1.a.28A.2

The Secretary of State must by regulations make provision in connection with
the making and determination of applications for the removal of material from
the register under section  28 .

170.1.a.28A.3

The provision that may be made under subsection  (2)  includes provision as
to—

170.1.a.28A.3.a

who may make an application,

170.1.a.28A.3.b

the information to be included in and documents to accompany an application,

170.1.a.28A.3.c

the notice to be given of an application and of its outcome,

170.1.a.28A.3.d

a period in which objections to an application may be made, and

170.1.a.28A.3.e

how an application is to be determined, including provision as to evidence
that may be relied upon by the registrar for the purposes of satisfying the
test in section  28 (1) .

170.1.a.28A.4

The provision that may be made by virtue of subsection  (3)(e)  includes
provision as to circumstances in which—

170.1.a.28A.4.a

evidence is to be treated by the registrar as conclusive proof that the test
in section  28 (1)  is met, and

170.1.a.28A.4.b

the power of removal must be exercised.

170.1.a.28A.5

Regulations under this section may in particular confer a discretion on the
registrar.

170.1.a.28A.6

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative resolution
procedure.

;

170.1.b

omit sections 29 and 29A (application to rectify register and resolution of
discrepancies).

170.2

In section 1073 of the Companies Act 2006 (power to accept documents not
meeting requirements for proper delivery), in subsection (6)(a), after “
section 1094A(1) ” (inserted by section 85 of this Act) insert  “or any
corresponding provision of any other enactment” .

#### Offences

##### False statement offences in connection with information notices

171

For section 15 of the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022
substitute—

######### Failure to comply with notice under section 12 or 13

171.15

171.15.1

A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a notice under
section 12 or 13 commits an offence.

171.15.2

Where the offence is committed by a legal entity, the offence is also
committed by every officer of the entity who is in default.

171.15.3

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under this section to
prove that the requirement to give information was frivolous or vexatious.

171.15.4

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

171.15.4.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

171.15.4.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

171.15.4.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

171.15.4.d

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both).

######### False statements under section 12 or 13: basic offence

171.15A

171.15A.1

A person who is given a notice under section 12 or 13 commits an offence if,
in purported compliance with the notice and without reasonable excuse, the
person makes a statement that is misleading, false or deceptive in a material
particular.

171.15A.2

Where the offence is committed by a legal entity, the offence is also
committed by every officer of the entity who is in default.

171.15A.3

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

171.15A.3.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to a fine;

171.15A.3.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale;

171.15A.3.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on
the standard scale.

######### False statements under section 12 or 13: aggravated offence

171.15B

171.15B.1

A person who is given a notice under section 12 or 13 commits an offence if,
in purported compliance with the notice, the person makes a statement that the
person knows to be misleading, false or deceptive in a material particular.

171.15B.2

Where the offence is committed by a legal entity, the offence is also
committed by every officer of the entity who is in default.

171.15B.3

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

171.15B.3.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

171.15B.3.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

171.15B.3.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

171.15B.3.d

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both).

##### General false statement offences

172

For section 32 of the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022
substitute—

######### False statements: basic offence

172.32

172.32.1

It is an offence for a person, without reasonable excuse, to—

172.32.1.a

deliver or cause to be delivered to the registrar, for the purposes of this
Part, a document that is misleading, false or deceptive in a material
particular, or

172.32.1.b

make to the registrar, for the purposes of this Part, a statement that is
misleading, false or deceptive in a material particular.

172.32.2

Where the offence is committed by a legal entity, every officer of the entity
who is in default also commits the offence.

172.32.3

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

172.32.3.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to a fine;

172.32.3.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale;

172.32.3.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on
the standard scale.

######### False statements: aggravated offence

172.32A

172.32A.1

It is an offence for a person knowingly to—

172.32A.1.a

deliver or cause to be delivered to the registrar, for the purposes of this
Part, a document that is misleading, false or deceptive in a material
particular, or

172.32A.1.b

make to the registrar, for the purposes of this Part, a statement that is
misleading, false or deceptive in a material particular.

172.32A.2

Where the offence is committed by a legal entity, every officer of the entity
who is in default also commits the offence.

172.32A.3

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

172.32A.3.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both);

172.32A.3.b

on summary conviction—

172.32A.3.b.i

in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the general
limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

172.32A.3.b.ii

in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or a fine not
exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

172.32A.3.b.iii

in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a
fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both).

##### Enforcement of requirement to register: updated language about penalties etc

173

173.1

The Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022 is amended as
follows.

173.2

In section 34 (power to require overseas entity to register if it owns certain
land)—

173.2.a

in subsection (4)(a), for “the maximum summary term for either-way offences”
substitute  “a term not exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court” ;

173.2.b

omit subsection (5).

173.3

In section 36 (meaning of “ daily default fine ”) after “applies for” insert
“the” .

#### Miscellaneous

##### Overseas entities: further information for transitional cases

174

Schedule 7 (overseas entities: further information for transitional cases)
amends the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022 to impose
further duties on overseas entities to deliver information to the registrar.

##### Financial penalties: interaction with offences

175

In section 39 of the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022
(financial penalties), in subsection (4)—

175.a

for paragraph (a) (but not the “and” at the end) substitute—

175.a.a

no financial penalty may be imposed under the regulations on a person in
respect of conduct amounting to an offence if—

175.a.a.i

proceedings have been brought against the person for that offence in respect
of that conduct and the proceedings are ongoing, or

175.a.a.ii

the person has been convicted of that offence in respect of that conduct,

;

175.b

in paragraph (b), omit “or continued”.

##### Meaning of “service address”

176

In section 44 of the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022
(interpretation), at the appropriate places, insert—

“ the Companies Acts ” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Companies
Act 2006;

“ service address ” has the same meaning as in the Companies Acts (see section
1141(1) and (2) of the Companies Act 2006).

##### Meaning of “registered overseas entity” in land registration legislation

177

177.1

In Schedule 4A to the Land Registration Act 2002 (overseas entities), for
paragraph 8 substitute—

177.1.8

177.1.8.1

For the purpose of this Schedule, an overseas entity that has failed to comply
with any of the following duties is not to be treated as being a “registered
overseas entity” until it remedies the failure.

177.1.8.2

The duties are—

177.1.8.2.a

the duty to deliver to the registrar of companies the documents required by
section 7 of the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022
(updating duty);

177.1.8.2.b

the duty to provide information to the registrar of companies in accordance
with a notice under section  1092A  of the Companies Act 2006 (power of
registrar to require information).

177.1.8.3

For the purposes of this paragraph the failure is remedied when the documents
are delivered, or the information is provided, to the registrar of companies.

177.2

In section 21 of the Land Registration etc. (Scotland) Act  2012 (asp 5)
(application for registration of deed), the subsection (5) inserted by the
Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022 is renumbered
subsection (4A).

177.3

In schedule 1A to the Land Registration etc. (Scotland) Act 2012 (land
transactions: overseas entities), in paragraph 9, for sub-paragraphs (2) and
(3) substitute—

177.3.2

For the purpose of this schedule, an overseas entity that has failed to comply
with any of the following duties is not to be treated as being a “registered
overseas entity” until it remedies the failure.

177.3.3

The duties are—

177.3.3.a

the duty to deliver to the registrar of companies the documents required by
section 7 of the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022
(updating duty);

177.3.3.b

the duty to provide information to the registrar of companies in accordance
with a notice under section  1092A  of the Companies Act 2006 (power of
registrar to require information).

177.3.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (2)  the failure is remedied when the
documents are delivered, or the information is provided, to the registrar of
companies.

177.4

In Schedule 8A to the  Land Registration Act (Northern Ireland) 1970 (c. 18
(N.I.))  (overseas entities), for paragraph 7 substitute—

177.4.7

177.4.7.1

For the purpose of this Schedule, an overseas entity that fails to comply with
any of the following duties is not to be treated as being a “registered
overseas entity” until it remedies the failure.

177.4.7.2

The duties are—

177.4.7.2.a

the duty to deliver to the registrar of companies the documents required by
section 7 of the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022
(updating duty);

177.4.7.2.b

the duty to provide information to the registrar of companies in accordance
with a notice under section  1092A  of the Companies Act 2006 (power of
registrar to require information).

177.4.7.3

For the purposes of this paragraph a failure is remedied when the documents
are delivered, or the information is provided, to the registrar of companies.

##### Power to apply Part 1 amendments to register of overseas entities

178

178.1

Where provision made by the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act
2022 corresponds to provision made by the Companies Act 2006, the Secretary of
State may by regulations make amendments to the 2022 Act corresponding to any
amendments made by Part 1 of this Act to the provision in the 2006 Act.

178.2

The Secretary of State must obtain the consent of the Scottish Ministers
before making regulations under this section that contain provision that would
be within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if contained
in an Act of that Parliament.

178.3

The Secretary of State must obtain the consent of the Department of Finance in
Northern Ireland before making regulations under this section that contain
provision that—

178.3.a

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

178.3.b

would not, if contained in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly, result in
the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State under section 8 of
the Northern Ireland Act 1998.

### Cryptoassets

#### Cryptoassets: confiscation orders

179

Schedule 8 amends the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 to make provision in
connection with cryptoassets and confiscation orders under Parts 2, 3 and 4 of
that Act.

#### Cryptoassets: civil recovery

180

180.1

Schedule 9 amends the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 to make provision for a civil
recovery regime in relation to cryptoassets.

180.2

It also contains related amendments.

#### Cryptoassets: terrorism

181

181.1

Part 1 of Schedule 10 amends the Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001
to make provision for a civil recovery regime in relation to cryptoassets
which—

181.1.a

are intended to be used for the purposes of terrorism,

181.1.b

consist of resources of an organisation which is a proscribed organisation, or

181.1.c

are, or represent, property obtained through terrorism.

181.2

Part 2 of Schedule 10 amends the Terrorism Act 2000 to make provision about
financial institutions and cryptoassets.

### Miscellaneous

#### Money laundering and terrorist financing

##### Money laundering: exiting and paying away exemptions

182

182.1

The Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 is amended as follows.

182.2

In section 327 (concealing etc), after subsection (2C) insert—

182.2.2D

A person (“ P ”) who does an act mentioned in paragraph (c) or (d) of
subsection (1) does not commit an offence under that subsection if—

182.2.2D.a

P is carrying on business in the regulated sector that is not excluded
business,

182.2.2D.b

P does the act, in the course of that business—

182.2.2D.b.i

in transferring or handing over to a customer or client money or other
property of, or owing to, the customer or client, and

182.2.2D.b.ii

for the purposes of the termination of P’s business relationship with the
customer or client,

182.2.2D.c

the total value of the criminal property so transferred or handed over to the
customer or client by P for those purposes is less than the threshold amount
determined under section 339A for the act, and

182.2.2D.d

before the act is done, P has complied with the customer due diligence duties.

182.2.2E

For the purposes of subsection  (2D) —

182.2.2E.a

business is “excluded” if it is of a description specified in regulations made
by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this paragraph;

182.2.2E.b

a reference to property being transferred or handed over to the customer or
client includes a reference to property being transferred or handed over to
another person at the direction of the customer or client;

182.2.2E.c

“ customer due diligence duties ” means all duties imposed on P in relation to
the customer or client by regulation 28(2), (3), (3A), (4), (8) or (10) of the
Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and Transfer of Funds (Information on
the Payer) Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/692 ) (customer due diligence
measures).

182.3

In section 328 (arrangements), after subsection (5) insert—

182.3.6

A person (“ P ”) who does an act mentioned in subsection (1) does not commit
an offence under that subsection if—

182.3.6.a

P is carrying on business in the regulated sector that is not excluded
business,

182.3.6.b

P does the act, in the course of that business—

182.3.6.b.i

in transferring or handing over to a customer or client money or other
property of, or owing to, the customer or client, and

182.3.6.b.ii

for the purposes of the termination of P’s business relationship with the
customer or client,

182.3.6.c

the total value of the criminal property so transferred or handed over to the
customer or client by P for those purposes is less than the threshold amount
determined under section 339A for the act, and

182.3.6.d

before the act is done, P has complied with the customer due diligence duties.

182.3.7

For the purposes of subsection  (6) —

182.3.7.a

business is “excluded” if it is of a description specified in regulations made
by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this subsection;

182.3.7.b

a reference to property being transferred or handed over to the customer or
client includes a reference to property being transferred or handed over to
another person at the direction of the customer or client;

182.3.7.c

“ customer due diligence duties ” means all duties imposed on P in relation to
the customer or client by regulation 28(2), (3), (3A), (4), (8) or (10) of the
Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and Transfer of Funds (Information on
the Payer) Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/692 ) (customer due diligence
measures).

182.4

In section 329 (acquisition, use and possession), after subsection (2C)
insert—

182.4.2D

A person (“ P ”) who does an act mentioned in subsection (1) does not commit
an offence under that subsection if—

182.4.2D.a

P is carrying on business in the regulated sector that is not excluded
business,

182.4.2D.b

P does the act, in the course of that business—

182.4.2D.b.i

in transferring or handing over to the customer or client property of, or
owing to, a customer or client, and

182.4.2D.b.ii

for the purposes of the termination of P’s business relationship with the
customer or client,

182.4.2D.c

the total value of the criminal property so transferred or handed over to the
customer or client by P for those purposes is less than the threshold amount
determined under section 339A for the act, and

182.4.2D.d

before the act is done, P has complied with the customer due diligence duties.

182.4.2E

For the purposes of subsection  (2D) —

182.4.2E.a

business is “excluded” if it is of a description specified in regulations made
by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this subsection;

182.4.2E.b

a reference to property being transferred or handed over to the customer or
client includes a reference to property being transferred or handed over to
another person at the direction of the customer or client;

182.4.2E.c

“ customer due diligence duties ” means all duties imposed on P in relation to
the customer or client by regulation 28(2), (3), (3A), (4), (8) or (10) of the
Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and Transfer of Funds (Information on
the Payer) Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/692 ) (customer due diligence
measures).

182.5

In section 339A (threshold amounts)—

182.5.a

for subsection (1) substitute—

182.5.a.1

In this section—

182.5.a.1.a

subsections (2) to (6) apply for the purposes of sections 327(2C), 328(5) and
329(2C), and

182.5.a.1.b

subsection (6A) applies for the purposes of sections 327 (2D) , 328 (6)  and
329 (2D) .

;

182.5.b

after subsection (6) insert—

182.5.b.6A

The threshold amount for acts done by a person carrying on business in the
regulated sector, for the purposes of the termination of a business
relationship with a customer or client, is £1000.

;

182.5.c

in subsection (7), after “subsection (2)” insert  “or  (6A) ” .

182.6

In section 340 (interpretation of Part 7), after subsection (16) insert—

182.6.17

“ Business relationship ” means a business, professional or commercial
relationship between a person carrying on business in the regulated sector and
a customer or client, where the relationship—

182.6.17.a

arises out of the business of that person, and

182.6.17.b

is expected by that person, at the time when contact is established, to have
an element of duration.

182.7

In section 459 (orders and regulations)—

182.7.a

in subsection (4), after paragraph (aza) insert—

182.7.a.azaa

regulations under section 327 (2E)(a) , 328 (7)(a)  or 329 (2E)(a) ;

;

182.7.b

after subsection (6ZB) insert—

182.7.b.6ZBA

No regulations may be made by the Secretary of State under section 327 (2E)(a)
, 328 (7)(a)  or 329 (2E)(a)  unless a draft of the regulations has been laid
before Parliament and approved by a resolution of each House.

##### Money laundering: exemptions for mixed-property transactions

183

183.1

The Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 is amended as follows.

183.2

In section 327 (concealing etc), after subsection (2E) (inserted by section
182) insert—

183.2.2F

A person (“ P ”) who does an act mentioned in paragraph (c), (d) or (e) of
subsection (1) does not commit an offence under that subsection if—

183.2.2F.a

P is carrying on business in the regulated sector,

183.2.2F.b

P does the act in the course of that business, on behalf of a customer or
client, in operating an account or accounts maintained with P or in connection
with holding any property for the customer or client,

183.2.2F.c

at the time of the act, P knows or suspects that part but not all of the funds
in the account or accounts, or of the property so held, is criminal property
(“the relevant criminal property”),

183.2.2F.d

it is not possible, at the time the act takes place, to identify the part of
the funds or property that is the relevant criminal property, and

183.2.2F.e

the value of the funds in the account or accounts, or of the property so held,
is not, as a direct or indirect result of the act, less than the value of the
relevant criminal property at the time of the act.

183.2.2G

Where subsection  (2F)  applies—

183.2.2G.a

if P does the act in operating an account or accounts, the funds in the
account or accounts immediately after the act are assumed to include the
relevant criminal property, and

183.2.2G.b

if P does the act in connection with holding any property for the customer or
client, such of that property as is held by P immediately after the act is
assumed to include the relevant criminal property.

183.3

In section 328 (arrangements), after subsection (7) (inserted by section 182)
insert—

183.3.8

A person (“ P ”) who does an act mentioned in subsection (1) does not commit
an offence under that subsection if—

183.3.8.a

P is carrying on business in the regulated sector,

183.3.8.b

P does the act in the course of that business, on behalf of a customer or
client, in operating an account or accounts maintained with P or in connection
with holding any property for the customer or client,

183.3.8.c

at the time of the act, P knows or suspects that part but not all of the funds
in the account or accounts, or of the property so held, is criminal property
(“the relevant criminal property”),

183.3.8.d

it is not possible, at the time the act takes place, to identify the part of
the funds or property that is the relevant criminal property, and

183.3.8.e

the value of the funds in the account or accounts, or of the property so held,
is not, as a direct or indirect result of the act, less than the value of the
relevant criminal property at the time of the act.

183.3.9

Where subsection  (8)  applies—

183.3.9.a

if P does the act in operating an account or accounts, the funds in the
account or accounts immediately after the act are assumed to include the
relevant criminal property, and

183.3.9.b

if P does the act in connection with holding any property for the customer or
client, such of that property as is held by P immediately after the act is
assumed to include the relevant criminal property.

183.4

In section 329 (acquisition, use and possession), after subsection (2E)
(inserted by section 182), insert—

183.4.2F

A person (“ P ”) who does an act mentioned in subsection (1) does not commit
an offence under that subsection if—

183.4.2F.a

P is carrying on business in the regulated sector,

183.4.2F.b

P does the act in the course of that business, on behalf of a customer or
client, in operating an account or accounts maintained with P or in connection
with holding any property for the customer or client,

183.4.2F.c

at the time of the act, P knows or suspects that part but not all of the funds
in the account or accounts, or of the property so held, is criminal property
(“the relevant criminal property”),

183.4.2F.d

it is not possible, at the time the act takes place, to identify the part of
the funds or property that is the relevant criminal property, and

183.4.2F.e

the value of the funds in the account or accounts, or of the property so held,
is not, as a direct or indirect result of the act, less than the value of the
relevant criminal property at the time of the act.

183.4.2G

Where subsection  (2F)  applies—

183.4.2G.a

if P does the act in operating an account or accounts, the funds in the
account or accounts immediately after the act are assumed to include the
relevant criminal property, and

183.4.2G.b

if P does the act in connection with holding any property for the customer or
client, such of that property as is held by P immediately after the act is
assumed to include the relevant criminal property.

##### Money laundering: offences of failing to disclose

184

184.1

The Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 is amended as follows.

184.2

In section 330 (failure to disclose: regulated sector)—

184.2.a

subsection (7A) is moved to after subsection (7B) and is renumbered subsection
(7C);

184.2.b

after that subsection as moved and renumbered, insert—

184.2.b.7D

Nor does a person commit an offence under this section if—

184.2.b.7D.a

the information or other matter mentioned in subsection (3) consists of or
includes information that was obtained only in consequence of the carrying out
of a status check under section 40 of the Immigration Act 2014 or an
immigration check under section 40A of that Act or both, and

184.2.b.7D.b

but for the information so obtained the person would not have reasonable
grounds for knowing or suspecting that another person is engaged in money
laundering.

184.3

In section 331 (failure to disclose: nominated officers in the regulated
sector), after subsection (6A) insert—

184.3.6B

Nor does a person commit an offence under this section if—

184.3.6B.a

the information or other matter disclosed to the person under section 330
consists of or includes information that was obtained only in consequence of
the carrying out of a status check under section 40 of the Immigration Act
2014 or an immigration check under section 40A of that Act or both, and

184.3.6B.b

but for the information so obtained the person would not have reasonable
grounds for knowing or suspecting that another person is engaged in money
laundering.

##### Money laundering: information orders

185

185.1

Section 339ZH of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (further information orders)
is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)  to  (11) .

185.2

In the heading for “Further information” substitute  “Information” .

185.3

In subsection (1)—

185.3.a

for “a further” substitute  “an” ;

185.3.b

for “either condition 1 or condition 2” substitute  “one of conditions 1 to 4”
.

185.4

In subsection (3) for “A further” substitute  “An” .

185.5

In subsection (4) for “a further” substitute  “an” .

185.6

In subsection (5) for “a further” substitute  “an” .

185.7

After subsection (6) insert—

185.7.6A

Condition 3 for the making of an information order is met if—

185.7.6A.a

the information would assist an authorised NCA officer to conduct—

185.7.6A.a.i

operational analysis of information that is relevant to money laundering or
suspected money laundering, or

185.7.6A.a.ii

strategic analysis identifying trends or patterns in the conduct of money
laundering, or systemic deficiencies or vulnerabilities which have been, are
being or are likely to be, exploited for the purposes of money laundering,

for the purposes of the criminal intelligence function of the National Crime
Agency, so far as it relates to money laundering,

185.7.6A.b

the respondent is a person carrying on a business in the regulated sector,

185.7.6A.c

where the application for the order is made to a magistrates’ court, the
person making the application has had regard to the code of practice under
section 339ZL,

185.7.6A.d

where the application for the order is made to the sheriff—

185.7.6A.d.i

the application is made by a procurator fiscal at the request of the Director
General of the National Crime Agency or an authorised NCA officer, and

185.7.6A.d.ii

the person making that request has had regard to the code of practice under
section 339ZL, and

185.7.6A.e

it is reasonable in all the circumstances for the information to be provided.

185.7.6B

Condition 4 for the making of an information order is met if—

185.7.6B.a

a request has been made by a foreign FIU to the National Crime Agency for the
provision of the information required to be given under the order,

185.7.6B.b

an authorised NCA officer has reasonable grounds to believe that the request
was made only for the purpose of assisting the foreign FIU to conduct one or
both of the following—

185.7.6B.b.i

operational analysis of information that is relevant to money laundering or
suspected money laundering, or

185.7.6B.b.ii

strategic analysis identifying trends or patterns in the conduct of money
laundering, or systematic deficiencies or vulnerabilities which have been, are
being or are likely to be, exploited for the purposes of money laundering,

and that the information is likely to be of substantial value to the foreign
FIU in carrying out such analysis,

185.7.6B.c

the provision of the information by the National Crime Agency to the foreign
FIU would be for the purposes of the criminal intelligence function of the
National Crime Agency, so far as it relates to money laundering,

185.7.6B.d

the respondent is a person carrying on a business in the regulated sector,

185.7.6B.e

where the application for the order is made to a magistrates’ court, the
person making the application has had regard to the code of practice under
section 339ZL,

185.7.6B.f

where the application for the order is made to the sheriff—

185.7.6B.f.i

the application is made by a procurator fiscal at the request of the Director
General of the National Crime Agency or an authorised NCA officer, and

185.7.6B.f.ii

the person making that request has had regard to the code of practice under
section 339ZL, and

185.7.6B.g

it is reasonable in all the circumstances for the information to be provided.

185.8

In subsection (7) for “A further” substitute  “An” .

185.9

In subsection (8) for “a further” substitute  “an” .

185.10

In subsection (12), at the appropriate places, insert—

“ authorised NCA officer ” means a National Crime Agency officer authorised by
the Director General (whether generally or specifically) for the purposes of
this section;

;

“ the criminal intelligence function ” has the meaning given by section 1(5)
of the Crime and Courts Act 2013;

;

“ foreign FIU ” means a body in a foreign country carrying out the functions
of a financial intelligence unit within the meaning of Recommendation 29 of
the Financial Action Task Force (as that Recommendation has effect from time
to time);

.

185.11

In that subsection, in the definition of “relevant person”, in paragraph (a),
for “other National Crime Agency officer” to the end substitute  “authorised
NCA officer,” .

185.12

After section 339ZK of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 insert—

########### Code of practice about certain information orders

185.12.339ZL

185.12.339ZL.1

The Secretary of State must make a code of practice in connection with the
exercise of the following functions by the Director General of the National
Crime Agency or an authorised NCA officer—

185.12.339ZL.1.a

the making of an application to the magistrates’ court for an information
order in reliance on Condition 3 or 4 in section 339ZH being met;

185.12.339ZL.1.b

the making of a request to a procurator fiscal for the procurator fiscal to
apply for an information order in reliance on Condition 3 or 4 in section
339ZH being met.

185.12.339ZL.2

Where the Secretary of State proposes to issue a code of practice the
Secretary of State must—

185.12.339ZL.2.a

publish a draft,

185.12.339ZL.2.b

consider any representations made about the draft, and

185.12.339ZL.2.c

if the Secretary of State thinks appropriate, modify the draft in the light of
any such representations.

185.12.339ZL.3

A requirement in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of subsection (2) may be satisfied
by the carrying out of the action required by the paragraph in question before
this section comes into force.

185.12.339ZL.4

The Secretary of State must lay a draft of the code before Parliament.

185.12.339ZL.5

When the Secretary of State has laid a draft of the code before Parliament the
Secretary of State may bring it into operation by regulations.

185.12.339ZL.6

The Secretary of State may revise the whole or any part of the code and issue
the code as revised; and subsections (2) to  (5)  apply to a revised code as
they apply to the original code.

185.12.339ZL.7

A failure by a person to comply with a provision of the code does not of
itself make the person liable to criminal or civil proceedings.

185.12.339ZL.8

The code is admissible in evidence in criminal or civil proceedings and is to
be taken into account by a court or tribunal in any case in which it appears
to the court or tribunal to be relevant.

185.12.339ZL.9

A code of practice made under this section may be combined with a code of
practice under section 22F of the Terrorism Act 2000 (code of practice
relating to information orders under section 22B(1A) of that Act).

185.12.339ZL.10

In this section “ authorised NCA officer ” has the meaning given in section
339ZH(12).

185.13

In section 459 of that Act (orders and regulations)—

185.13.a

in subsection (4), after paragraph (azaa) (inserted by section 182(7)(a) of
this Act) insert—

185.13.a.azab

regulations under section 339ZL (5) ;

;

185.13.b

after subsection (6ZBA) (inserted by section 182(7)(b) of this Act) insert—

185.13.b.6ZBB

No regulations may be made by the Secretary of State under section 339ZL (5)
unless a draft of the regulations has been laid before Parliament and approved
by a resolution of each House.

185.14

In consequence of further information orders being renamed information orders
by this section, the following amendments are also made to that Act—

185.14.a

in the italic heading before section 339ZH for “Further information”
substitute  “Information” ;

185.14.b

in section 339ZI (statements), in subsection (1) for “a further” substitute
“an” ;

185.14.c

in section 339ZJ (appeals), in subsections (1) and (4)(a) for “a further”
substitute  “an” ;

185.14.d

in section 339ZK (supplementary)—

185.14.d.i

in subsection (1) for “A further” substitute  “An” ;

185.14.d.ii

in subsection (3) for “a further” substitute  “an” ;

185.14.d.iii

in subsection (4) for “a further” substitute  “an” ;

185.14.d.iv

in subsection (5) omit “further”;

185.14.e

in section 340 (interpretation), in subsection (15) for “Further information”
substitute  “Information” .

##### Terrorist financing: information orders

186

186.1

Section 22B of the Terrorism Act 2000 (further information orders) is amended
in accordance with subsections  (2)  to  (12) .

186.2

In the heading for “Further information” substitute  “Information” .

186.3

In subsection (1) for “a further” substitute  “an” .

186.4

After subsection (1) insert—

186.4.1A

A magistrates’ court or (in Scotland) the sheriff may, on an application made—

186.4.1A.a

in the case of a magistrates’ court, by the Director General of the National
Crime Agency or an authorised NCA officer, and

186.4.1A.b

in the case of the sheriff, by a procurator fiscal,

make an information order if satisfied that either condition 3 or condition 4
is met.

186.5

In subsection (3) for “A further” substitute  “An” .

186.6

In subsection (4) for “a further” substitute  “an” .

186.7

In subsection (5) for “a further” substitute  “an” .

186.8

After subsection (6) insert—

186.8.6A

Condition 3 for the making of an information order is met if—

186.8.6A.a

the information would assist an authorised NCA officer to conduct—

186.8.6A.a.i

operational analysis of information that is relevant to terrorist financing or
suspected terrorist financing, or

186.8.6A.a.ii

strategic analysis identifying trends or patterns in the conduct of terrorist
financing, or systemic deficiencies or vulnerabilities which have been, are
being or are likely to be, exploited for the purposes of terrorist financing,

for the purposes of the criminal intelligence function of the National Crime
Agency so far as it relates to terrorist financing,

186.8.6A.b

the respondent is a person carrying on a business in the regulated sector,

186.8.6A.c

where the application for the order is made to a magistrates’ court, the
person making the application has had regard to the code of practice under
section 22F,

186.8.6A.d

where the application for the order is made to the sheriff—

186.8.6A.d.i

the application is made by a procurator fiscal at the request of the Director
General of the National Crime Agency or an authorised NCA officer, and

186.8.6A.d.ii

the person making that request has had regard to the code of practice under
section 22F, and

186.8.6A.e

it is reasonable in all the circumstances for the information to be provided.

186.8.6B

Condition 4 for the making of an information order is met if—

186.8.6B.a

a request has been made by a foreign FIU to the National Crime Agency for the
provision of the information required to be given under the order,

186.8.6B.b

an authorised NCA officer has reasonable grounds to believe that the request
was made only for the purpose of assisting the foreign FIU to conduct one or
both of the following—

186.8.6B.b.i

operational analysis of information that is relevant to terrorist financing or
suspected terrorist financing, or

186.8.6B.b.ii

strategic analysis identifying trends or patterns in the conduct of terrorist
financing, or systematic deficiencies or vulnerabilities which have been, are
being or are likely to be, exploited for the purposes of terrorist financing,

and that the information is likely to be of substantial value to the foreign
FIU in carrying out such analysis,

186.8.6B.c

the provision of the information by the National Crime Agency to the foreign
FIU would be for the purposes of the criminal intelligence function of the
National Crime Agency, so far as it relates to terrorist financing,

186.8.6B.d

the respondent is a person carrying on a business in the regulated sector,

186.8.6B.e

where the application for the order is made to a magistrates’ court, the
person making the application has had regard to the code of practice under
section 22F,

186.8.6B.f

where the application for the order is made to the sheriff—

186.8.6B.f.i

the application is made by a procurator fiscal at the request of the Director
General of the National Crime Agency or an authorised NCA officer, and

186.8.6B.f.ii

the person making that request has had regard to the code of practice under
section 22F, and

186.8.6B.g

it is reasonable in all the circumstances for the information to be provided.

186.9

In subsection (7) for “A further” substitute  “An” .

186.10

In subsection (8) for “a further” substitute  “an” .

186.11

In subsection (12), after “this section” insert  “in reliance on Condition 1
or 2” .

186.12

In subsection (14), at the appropriate places, insert—

“ authorised NCA officer ” means an officer of the National Crime Agency
authorised by the Director General (whether generally or specifically) for the
purposes of this section;

;

“ the criminal intelligence function ” has the meaning given by section 1(5)
of the Crime and Courts Act 2013;

;

“ foreign FIU ” means a body in a foreign country carrying out the functions
of a financial intelligence unit within the meaning of Recommendation 29 of
the Financial Action Task Force (as that Recommendation has effect from time
to time);

;

“ terrorist financing ” means— for the purposes of subsection  (6A) , an act
which constitutes an offence under any of sections 15 to 18; for the purposes
of subsection  (6B) , an act which constitutes a corresponding terrorist
financing offence.

186.13

After section 22E of the Terrorism Act 2000 insert—

########### Code of practice about certain information orders

186.13.22F

186.13.22F.1

The Secretary of State must make a code of practice in connection with the
exercise of the following functions by the Director General of the National
Crime Agency or an authorised NCA officer—

186.13.22F.1.a

the making of an application to the magistrates’ court for an information
order under section 22B(1A) (information orders made in reliance on Condition
3 or 4 in section 22B being met);

186.13.22F.1.b

the making of a request to a procurator fiscal for the procurator fiscal to
apply for an information order under section 22B(1A).

186.13.22F.2

Where the Secretary of State proposes to issue a code of practice the
Secretary of State must—

186.13.22F.2.a

publish a draft,

186.13.22F.2.b

consider any representations made about the draft, and

186.13.22F.2.c

if the Secretary of State thinks appropriate, modify the draft in the light of
any such representations.

186.13.22F.3

A requirement in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of subsection (2) may be satisfied
by the carrying out of the action required by the paragraph in question before
this section comes into force.

186.13.22F.4

The Secretary of State must lay a draft of the code before Parliament.

186.13.22F.5

When the Secretary of State has laid a draft of the code before Parliament the
Secretary of State may bring it into operation by regulations.

186.13.22F.6

The Secretary of State may revise the whole or any part of the code and issue
the code as revised; and subsections  (2)  to  (5)  apply to a revised code as
they apply to the original code.

186.13.22F.7

A failure by a person to comply with a provision of the code does not of
itself make the person liable to criminal or civil proceedings.

186.13.22F.8

The code is admissible in evidence in criminal or civil proceedings and is to
be taken into account by a court or tribunal in any case in which it appears
to the court or tribunal to be relevant.

186.13.22F.9

A code of practice made under this section may be combined with a code of
practice under section 339ZL of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (code of
practice relating to certain information orders under section 339ZH of that
Act).

186.13.22F.10

In this section “ authorised NCA officer ” has the meaning given in section
22B(14).

186.14

In section 123(4) of that Act (orders and regulations subject to affirmative
procedure), after paragraph (a) insert—

186.14.aza

section 22F(5);

.

186.15

In consequence of further information orders being renamed information orders
by this section, the following amendments are also made to that Act—

186.15.a

in the italic heading before section 22B for “Further information” substitute
“Information” ;

186.15.b

in section 22C (statements), in subsection (1) for “a further” substitute
“an” ;

186.15.c

in section 22D (appeals), in subsections (1) and (4)(a) for “a further”
substitute  “an” ;

186.15.d

in section 22E (supplementary)—

186.15.d.i

in subsection (1) for “A further” substitute  “An” ;

186.15.d.ii

in subsection (3) for “a further” substitute  “an” ;

186.15.d.iii

in subsection (4) for “a further” substitute  “an” ;

186.15.d.iv

in subsection (5) omit “further”;

186.15.e

in section 120C (enforcement of orders in other parts of UK), in subsection
(2)(a) omit “further”.

##### Enhanced due diligence: designation of high-risk countries

187

187.1

The Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018 is amended as follows.

187.2

In Schedule 2 (money laundering and terrorist financing etc)—

187.2.a

in paragraph 4—

187.2.a.i

the existing text becomes sub-paragraph (1);

187.2.a.ii

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

187.2.a.ii.2

Provide for the imposition of requirements relating to enhanced customer due
diligence measures by reference to prescribed high-risk countries.

187.2.a.ii.3

Provision made by virtue of sub-paragraph (2) may in particular refer to a
list of countries published by the Financial Action Task Force as it has
effect from time to time.

;

187.2.b

in paragraph 23, after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

187.2.b.2A

In paragraph 4 (measures in relation to customers of relevant persons), the
reference in sub-paragraph (2) to requirements includes requirements imposed
by or under the Money Laundering Regulations 2017.

187.3

In section 55 (parliamentary procedure for regulations)—

187.3.a

in subsection (2), for the first “which” substitute  “made during the period
of 6 months beginning with the day on which the Economic Crime and Corporate
Transparency Act 2023 is passed if the instrument” ;

187.3.b

in subsection (9), for the words from “if” to the end substitute  “if they
only make provision prescribing high-risk countries by virtue of paragraph
4(2) of Schedule 2” .

#### Disclosures to prevent, detect or investigate economic crime etc

##### Direct disclosures of information: restrictions on civil liability

188

188.1

The protections set out in subsection (2) apply in relation to a disclosure
made by a person (“ A ”) to another person (“ B ”) if—

188.1.a

A is carrying on business in circumstances where subsection  (3)  applies,

188.1.b

B is also carrying on business in circumstances where that subsection applies,

188.1.c

the information relates to a person who is a customer or former customer of A
(“ the customer ”),

188.1.d

either the request condition or the warning condition is met,

188.1.e

A is satisfied that the disclosure of the information will or may assist B in
carrying out relevant actions of B, and

188.1.f

the disclosure is not a privileged disclosure.

188.2

The protections are that, subject to subsection (11), the disclosure does not—

188.2.a

give rise to a breach of any obligation of confidence owed by A, or

188.2.b

give rise to any civil liability, on the part of A, to the person to whom the
disclosed information relates.

188.3

This subsection applies—

188.3.a

where the business carried on is business in the regulated sector, and

188.3.b

in circumstances prescribed, in relation to the business or the person
carrying it on, by regulations made by the Secretary of State for the purposes
of this paragraph.

188.4

The request condition is that—

188.4.a

the disclosure is made in response to a request made by B, and

188.4.b

at the time the request is made, B has reason to believe that A holds
information relating to the customer the disclosure of which will or may
assist B in carrying out relevant actions of B.

188.5

The warning condition is that A, due to concerns about risks of economic
crime, has decided to take safeguarding action (or would have decided to take
such action but for the customer having ceased to be a customer of A).

188.6

For the purposes of subsection  (5) , “ safeguarding action ” means—

188.6.a

terminating a business relationship with the customer,

188.6.b

refusing the customer a product or service, or

188.6.c

restricting the customer’s access to elements of a product or service
available to other customers of A.

188.7

Where a disclosure is made to which subsection  (1)  applies, B’s use of the
disclosed information, for the purposes of any of B’s relevant actions, does
not breach any obligation of confidence owed by B.

188.8

The protections set out in subsection (9) apply in relation to a disclosure
made by a person (“ R ”) who is carrying on business in circumstances where
subsection  (3)  applies to another person for the purpose of making a
disclosure request if R has reason to believe that other person—

188.8.a

is carrying on business in circumstances where subsection  (3)  applies, and

188.8.b

has in their possession information about a customer or former customer of
theirs that will or may assist R to carry out any of R’s relevant actions.

188.9

The protections are that, subject to subsection (11), the disclosure does not—

188.9.a

give rise to a breach of any obligation of confidence owed by R, or

188.9.b

give rise to any civil liability, on the part of R, to the person to whom the
disclosed information relates.

188.10

Where a disclosure is made to which subsection  (8)  applies, the use by that
other person of the disclosed information, for the purposes of enabling a
disclosure to be made by them to which subsection  (1)  applies, does not—

188.10.a

give rise to a breach of any obligation of confidence owed by them, or

188.10.b

give rise to any civil liability, on the part of R, to the person to whom the
disclosed information relates.

This is subject to subsection (11).

188.11

Nothing in this section requires or authorises a disclosure of information
that would contravene, or prevents any civil liability arising under, the data
protection legislation.

##### Indirect disclosure of information: restrictions on civil liability

189

189.1

The protections set out in subsection (2) apply in relation to a disclosure
made by a person (“ A ”) to another person (“ B ”) if—

189.1.a

A is carrying on business in circumstances where subsection  (3)  applies,

189.1.b

the information relates to a person who is a customer or former customer of A
(“ the customer ”),

189.1.c

due to concerns about the risk of economic crime, A has decided to—

189.1.c.i

terminate a business relationship with the customer,

189.1.c.ii

refuse the customer a product or service, or

189.1.c.iii

restrict the customer’s access to elements of a product or service which are
available to other customers,

189.1.d

A is satisfied that the information disclosed to B, if it is disclosed by B to
one or more persons carrying on business in circumstances where subsection
(3)  applies, will or may assist those persons in carrying out their relevant
actions,

189.1.e

to the extent that the information is personal data, the UK GDPR applies to
the disclosure of the information by A,

189.1.f

A and B are parties to an agreement the terms of which provide that, to the
extent that the information is personal data, B will only disclose or
otherwise process it in circumstances where the UK GDPR applies to the
disclosure or other processing, and

189.1.g

the disclosure is not a privileged disclosure.

189.2

The protections are that, subject to subsection (10), the disclosure does not—

189.2.a

give rise to a breach of any obligation of confidence owed by A, or

189.2.b

give rise to any civil liability, on the part of A, to the person to whom the
disclosed information relates.

189.3

This subsection applies—

189.3.a

where the business carried on is business in the regulated sector as—

189.3.a.i

a deposit-taking body,

189.3.a.ii

an electronic money institution,

189.3.a.iii

a payment institution,

189.3.a.iv

a cryptoasset exchange provider, or

189.3.a.v

a custodian wallet provider,

189.3.b

where—

189.3.b.i

the business carried on is business in the regulated sector within paragraph
1(1)(j) to (n) of Schedule 9 to the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (audit,
insolvency, accountancy, tax or legal services), and

189.3.b.ii

the UK revenue of the person carrying on the business is large or very large
for the relevant financial year (see subsection (11)), and

189.3.c

in circumstances prescribed, in relation to the business or the person
carrying it on, by regulations made by the Secretary of State for the purposes
of this paragraph.

189.4

Where subsection  (1)  applies to a disclosure of information made by A to B,
the protections set out in subsection (5) apply in relation to a further
disclosure of that information made by B to another person (“ C ”) if—

189.4.a

C is carrying on business in circumstances where subsection  (3)  applies, and

189.4.b

to the extent that the information is personal data, the UK GDPR applies to
all processing of the information by B, up to and including the disclosure of
the information to C.

189.5

The protections are that, subject to subsection (10), the disclosure does not—

189.5.a

give rise to a breach of any obligation of confidence owed by B, or

189.5.b

give rise to any civil liability, on the part of B, to the person to whom the
disclosed information relates.

189.6

Where a disclosure is made to which subsection  (4)  applies, C’s use of the
disclosed information, for the purposes of any of C’s relevant actions, does
not breach any obligation of confidence owed by C.

189.7

The protections set out in subsection (8) apply in relation to a disclosure
made by a person (“ R ”), who is carrying on business in circumstances where
subsection  (3)  applies, to another person, for the purposes of making a
request for a disclosure of information to be made to R by that other person
if, at the time the request is made, R has reason to believe that the
disclosure of information to which the request relates would be one to which
subsection  (4)  applies.

189.8

The protections are that, subject to subsection (10), the disclosure does not—

189.8.a

give rise to a breach of any obligation of confidence owed by R, or

189.8.b

give rise to any civil liability, on the part of R, to the person to whom the
disclosed information relates.

189.9

Where a disclosure is made to which subsection  (7)  applies, the use by that
other person, of the disclosed information, for the purposes of enabling a
disclosure to be made by them to which subsection  (4)  applies, does not—

189.9.a

give rise to a breach of any obligation of confidence owed by them, or

189.9.b

give rise to any civil liability, on their part, to the person to whom the
disclosed information relates.

This is subject to subsection (10).

189.10

Nothing in this section authorises a disclosure of information that would
contravene, or prevents any civil liability arising under, the data protection
legislation.

189.11

In subsection (3)(b) “relevant financial year”—

189.11.a

for the purposes of subsection (1)(a), means the financial year immediately
preceding that in which the disclosure by A is made;

189.11.b

for the purposes of subsection (4)(a), means the financial year immediately
preceding that in which the disclosure to C is made.

And, for the purposes of subsection (3)(b), the question of whether a person’s
UK revenue is large or very large for a particular financial year is to be
determined in accordance with sections 55 to 57 of the Finance Act 2022
(calculation of UK revenue for the economic crime (anti-money laundering)
levy).

##### Meaning of “privileged disclosure”

190

190.1

For the purposes of sections 188 and 189, “ privileged disclosure ” means a
disclosure of information made by a professional legal adviser or relevant
professional adviser in circumstances where the information disclosed came to
the adviser in privileged circumstances.

190.2

Information comes to a professional legal adviser or relevant professional
adviser in privileged circumstances if it is communicated or given to the
adviser—

190.2.a

by (or by a representative of) a client of the adviser in connection with the
giving by that person of legal advice to the client,

190.2.b

by (or by a representative of) a person seeking legal advice from the adviser,
or

190.2.c

by a person in connection with legal proceedings or contemplated legal
proceedings.

190.3

For the purposes of this section a “ relevant professional adviser ” means an
accountant, auditor or tax adviser who is a member of a professional body
which is established for accountants, auditors or tax advisers (as the case
may be) and which makes provision for—

190.3.a

testing the competence of those seeking admission to membership of such a body
as a condition for such admission, and

190.3.b

imposing and maintaining professional and ethical standards for its members,
as well as imposing sanctions for non-compliance with those standards.

##### Meaning of “relevant actions”

191

In sections 188 and 189, “relevant actions”, of a person, means the actions
of—

191.a

determining, for the purposes of preventing, detecting or investigating
economic crime—

191.a.i

whether it is appropriate to apply any customer due diligence measures, or any
similar measures, in respect of a customer or proposed customer of the person;

191.a.ii

the nature or extent of the measures;

191.b

carrying out, for such purposes—

191.b.i

effective measures for identifying or verifying the identity of, or

191.b.ii

any other customer due diligence measures in respect of,

a customer or proposed customer of the person;

191.c

determining, for such purposes, whether it is appropriate to—

191.c.i

terminate an existing business relationship with a customer or proposed
customer of the person;

191.c.ii

decline to establish a new business relationship with such a customer;

191.c.iii

decline to provide a product or service to such a customer;

191.c.iv

restrict the access of such a customer to an existing product or service which
is normally available to other customers;

191.c.v

decline to carry out a transaction for such a customer.

##### Meaning of “business relationship”

192

192.1

In sections 188 to 191, “ business relationship ” means a business,
professional or commercial relationship between a person carrying on relevant
business and a customer or client which—

192.1.a

arises out of the business of the person, and

192.1.b

has, or is expected by the person (at the time when contact is established) to
have, an element of duration.

192.2

In subsection (1) “ relevant business ” means—

192.2.a

in the case of section 188 (and section 191 as it applies for the purposes of
that section), business within section 188(3);

192.2.b

in the case of section 189 (and section 191 as it applies for the purposes of
that section), business within section 189(3).

##### Other defined terms in sections 188 to 191

193

193.1

In sections 188 to 191—

“ cryptoasset exchange provider ” has the meaning given by paragraph 1(12)(a)
of Schedule 9 to the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002; “ custodial wallet provider ”
has the meaning given by paragraph 1(12)(b) of Schedule 9 to the Proceeds of
Crime Act 2002; “ customer due diligence measures ” has the meaning given by
regulation 3(1) of the Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and Transfer of
Funds (Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/692 ); “ the
data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data Protection
Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act); “ deposit-taking body ” means— a
business which engages in the activity of accepting deposits, or the National
Savings Bank; “ economic crime ” means an act which— constitutes an offence
listed in Schedule 11 (“a listed offence”), constitutes an attempt or
conspiracy to commit a listed offence, constitutes an offence— under Part 2 of
the Serious Crime Act 2007 (England and Wales and Northern Ireland:
encouraging or assisting crime) in relation to a listed offence, or under the
law of Scotland of inciting the commission of a listed offence, constitutes
aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring the commission of a listed offence,
or would constitute a listed offence or an offence specified in paragraph (b),
(c) or (d) if done in the United Kingdom; “ electronic money institution ” has
the same meaning as in the Electronic Money Regulations 2011 ( S.I. 2011/99 )
(see regulation 2 of those Regulations); “ enactment ” includes— an enactment
contained in subordinate legislation (as defined in section 21 of the
Interpretation Act 1978); an enactment contained in, or in an instrument made
under, a Measure or Act of Senedd Cymru; an enactment contained in, or in an
instrument made under, an Act of the Scottish Parliament; an enactment
contained in, or in an instrument made under, Northern Ireland legislation;
any retained direct EU legislation; “ financial year ” means a period of 12
months ending with 31 March; “ payment institution ” means an authorised
payment institution or small payment institution (each as defined in
regulation 2 of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/752 )); “
personal data ” and “ processing ” have the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act); “regulated sector”: see
subsection  (2) ; “ the UK GDPR ” has the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act).

193.2

Part 1 of Schedule 9 to the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 has effect for the
purpose of determining what is a business in the regulated sector.

193.3

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, add an offence to or remove an
offence from the list in Schedule 11.

#### Power to strike out certain claims

##### Strategic litigation against public participation: requirement to make rules of court

194

194.1

The power to make Civil Procedure Rules must be exercised so as to secure that
Civil Procedure Rules include provision for ensuring that a claim may be
struck out before trial where the court determines—

194.1.a

that the claim is a SLAPP claim (see section 195), and

194.1.b

that the claimant has failed to show that it is more likely than not that the
claim would succeed at trial.

194.2

Rules made in compliance with subsection  (1)  may include rules about how a
determination under that subsection is to be made, including (in particular)—

194.2.a

rules for determining the nature and extent of the evidence that may or must
be considered;

194.2.b

rules about the extent to which evidence may or must be tested;

194.2.c

rules permitting or requiring the court to determine matters of fact by way of
presumptions.

194.3

Rules made in compliance with subsection  (1)  must include rules under which
the court may make a determination under that subsection of its own motion.

194.4

The power to make Civil Procedure Rules must be exercised so as to secure that
Civil Procedure Rules include provision for securing that, in respect of a
SLAPP claim, a court may not order a defendant to pay the claimant’s costs
except where, in the court’s view, misconduct of the defendant in relation to
the claim justifies such an order.

194.5

The Lord Chancellor may by regulations provide for subsections  (1)  to  (4)
to apply in relation to any rules of court that may be specified in the
regulations as those subsections apply in relation to Civil Procedure Rules.

194.6

In this section—

“ court ” includes a tribunal; “ rules of court ” means rules relating to the
practice and procedure of a court or tribunal.

##### Meaning of “SLAPP” claim

195

195.1

For the purposes of section 194 a claim is a “SLAPP claim” if—

195.1.a

the claimant’s behaviour in relation to the matters complained of in the claim
has, or is intended to have, the effect of restraining the defendant’s
exercise of the right to freedom of speech,

195.1.b

any of the information that is or would be disclosed by the exercise of that
right has to do with economic crime,

195.1.c

any part of that disclosure is or would be made for a purpose related to the
public interest in combating economic crime, and

195.1.d

any of the behaviour of the claimant in relation to the matters complained of
in the claim is intended to cause the defendant—

195.1.d.i

harassment, alarm or distress,

195.1.d.ii

expense, or

195.1.d.iii

any other harm or inconvenience,

beyond that ordinarily encountered in the course of properly conducted
litigation.

195.2

For the purposes of determining whether a claim meets the condition in
subsection  (1)(a)  or  (c) , any limitation prescribed by law on the exercise
of the right to freedom of speech (for example in relation to the making of
defamatory statements) is to be ignored.

195.3

For the purposes of this section, information mentioned in subsection  (1)(b)
“has to do with economic crime” if—

195.3.a

it relates to behaviour or circumstances which the defendant reasonably
believes (or, as the case requires, believed) to be evidence of the commission
of an economic crime, or

195.3.b

the defendant has (or, as the case requires, had) reason to suspect that an
economic crime may have occurred and believes (or, as the case requires,
believed) that the disclosure of the information would facilitate an
investigation into whether such a crime has (or had) occurred.

195.4

In determining whether any behaviour of the claimant falls within subsection
(1)(d) , the court may, in particular, take into account—

195.4.a

whether the behaviour is a disproportionate reaction to the matters complained
of in the claim, including whether the costs incurred by the claimant are out
of proportion to the remedy sought;

195.4.b

whether the defendant has access to fewer resources with which to defend the
claim than another person against whom the claimant could have brought (but
did not bring) proceedings in relation to the matters complained of in the
claim;

195.4.c

any relevant failure, or anticipated failure, by the claimant to comply with a
pre-action protocol, rule of court or practice direction, or to comply with or
follow a rule or recommendation of a professional regulatory body.

195.5

For the purposes of subsection  (4)(c)  a failure, or anticipated failure, is
“relevant” so far as it relates to—

195.5.a

the choice of jurisdiction,

195.5.b

the use of dilatory strategies,

195.5.c

the nature or amount of material sought on disclosure,

195.5.d

the way to respond to requests for comment or clarification,

195.5.e

the use of correspondence,

195.5.f

making or responding to offers to settle, or

195.5.g

the use of alternative dispute resolution procedures.

195.6

In this section—

“ court ” has the same meaning as in section 194; “ economic crime ” has the
meaning given by section 193 (1) ; “ the right to freedom of speech ” means
the right set out in Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights
(freedom of expression) so far as it consists of a right to impart ideas,
opinions or information by means of speech, writing or images (including in
electronic form).

195.7

In the definition of “the right to freedom of speech” in subsection  (6)  “
the European Convention on Human Rights ” means the Convention for the
Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms agreed by the Council of
Europe at Rome on 4 November 1950 as it has effect for the time being in
relation to the United Kingdom.

#### Attributing criminal liability for economic crimes to certain bodies

##### Attributing criminal liability for economic crimes to certain bodies

196

196.1

If a senior manager of a body corporate or partnership (“the organisation”)
acting within the actual or apparent scope of their authority commits a
relevant offence after this section comes into force, the organisation is also
guilty of the offence.

This is subject to subsection  (3) .

196.2

“ Relevant offence ” means an act which constitutes—

196.2.a

an offence listed in Schedule 12 (“a listed offence”),

196.2.b

an attempt or conspiracy to commit a listed offence,

196.2.c

an offence—

196.2.c.i

under Part 2 of the Serious Crime Act 2007 (England and Wales and Northern
Ireland: encouraging or assisting crime) in relation to a listed offence, or

196.2.c.ii

under the law of Scotland of inciting the commission of a listed offence, or

196.2.d

aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring the commission of a listed offence.

196.3

Where no act or omission forming part of the relevant offence took place in
the United Kingdom, the organisation is not guilty of an offence under
subsection (1) unless it would be guilty of the relevant offence had it
carried out the acts that constituted that offence (in the location where the
acts took place).

196.4

In this section—

“ body corporate ” includes a body incorporated outside the United Kingdom,
but does not include— a corporation sole, or a partnership that, whether or
not a legal person, is not regarded as a body corporate under the law by which
it is governed; “ partnership ” means— a partnership within the meaning of the
Partnership Act 1890; a limited partnership registered under the Limited
Partnerships Act 1907; a firm or other entity of a similar character to one
within paragraph (a) or (b) formed under the law of a country or territory
outside the United Kingdom; “ senior manager ”, in relation to a body
corporate or partnership, means an individual who plays a significant role in—
the making of decisions about how the whole or a substantial part of the
activities of the body corporate or (as the case may be) partnership are to be
managed or organised, or the actual managing or organising of the whole or a
substantial part of those activities.

##### Power to amend list of economic crimes

197

197.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend Schedule 12 by—

197.1.a

removing an offence from the list in the Schedule, or

197.1.b

adding an offence to that list.

197.2

The power in subsection  (1)  is exercisable by the Scottish Ministers (and
not by the Secretary of State) so far as it may be used to make provision that
would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if
contained in an Act of that Parliament.

197.3

The power in subsection  (1)  is exercisable by the Department of Justice in
Northern Ireland (and not by the Secretary of State) so far as it may be used
to make provision that—

197.3.a

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

197.3.b

would not, if contained in a Bill for an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State.

197.4

The Secretary of State may from time to time by regulations restate Schedule
12 as amended by virtue of subsections  (1)  to  (3)  (without changing the
effect of the Schedule).

##### Offences under section 196 committed by partnerships

198

198.1

Proceedings for an offence alleged to have been committed by a partnership by
virtue of section 196 must be brought in the name of the partnership (and not
in that of any of the partners).

198.2

For the purposes of such proceedings—

198.2.a

rules of court relating to the service of documents have effect as if the
partnership were a body corporate, and

198.2.b

the following provisions apply as they apply in relation to a body corporate—

198.2.b.i

section 33 of the Criminal Justice Act 1925 and Schedule 3 to the Magistrates’
Courts Act 1980;

198.2.b.ii

section 18 of the  Criminal Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 1945 (c. 15 (N.I.))
and Schedule 4 to the Magistrates’ Courts (Northern Ireland) Order 1981 ( S.I.
1981/1675 (N.I. 26) );

198.2.b.iii

sections 34(2), 66(6AA) and 72D(2) of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act
1995.

198.3

A fine imposed on the partnership on its conviction for an offence committed
by virtue of section 196 is to be paid out of the partnership assets.

198.4

In this section “ partnership ” has the same meaning as in section 196.

#### Failure to prevent fraud

##### Failure to prevent fraud

199

199.1

A relevant body which is a large organisation (see sections 201 and 202) is
guilty of an offence if, in a financial year of the body (“the year of the
fraud offence”), a person who is associated with the body (“the associate”)
commits a fraud offence intending to benefit (whether directly or indirectly)—

199.1.a

the relevant body, or

199.1.b

any person to whom, or to whose subsidiary undertaking, the associate provides
services on behalf of the relevant body.

199.2

A relevant body is also guilty of an offence under subsection  (1)  if—

199.2.a

an employee of the relevant body commits a fraud offence intending to benefit
(whether directly or indirectly) the relevant body,

199.2.b

the fraud offence is committed in a financial year of a parent undertaking of
which the relevant body is a subsidiary undertaking (“the year of the fraud
offence”), and

199.2.c

the parent undertaking is a relevant body which is a large organisation.

199.3

But the relevant body is not guilty of an offence under subsection (1)(b) if
the body itself was, or was intended to be, a victim of the fraud offence.

199.4

It is a defence for the relevant body to prove that, at the time the fraud
offence was committed—

199.4.a

the body had in place such prevention procedures as it was reasonable in all
the circumstances to expect the body to have in place, or

199.4.b

it was not reasonable in all the circumstances to expect the body to have any
prevention procedures in place.

199.5

In subsection  (4)  “ prevention procedures ” means procedures designed to
prevent persons associated with the body from committing fraud offences.

199.6

A “fraud offence” is an act which constitutes—

199.6.a

an offence listed in Schedule 13 (a “listed offence”), or

199.6.b

aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring the commission of a listed offence.

199.7

For the purposes of this section a person is associated with a relevant body
if—

199.7.a

the person is an employee, agent or subsidiary undertaking of the relevant
body, or

199.7.b

the person otherwise performs services for or on behalf of the body.

199.8

For the purposes of this section a person is also associated with a relevant
body if the person is an employee of a subsidiary undertaking of the relevant
body; but for the purpose of determining whether an offence is committed by
virtue of this subsection, subsection  (1)  has effect with the omission of
paragraph  (b)  (and the “or” preceding it).

199.9

Whether or not a particular person performs services for or on behalf of a
relevant body is to be determined by reference to all the relevant
circumstances and not merely by reference to the nature of the relationship
between that person and the body.

199.10

Where a relevant body is liable to be proceeded against for an offence under
subsection  (1)  in a particular part of the United Kingdom, proceedings
against the body for the offence may be taken in any place in the United
Kingdom.

199.11

Where by virtue of subsection  (10)  proceedings against a relevant body for
an offence are to be taken in Scotland—

199.11.a

the body may be prosecuted, tried and punished in a sheriff court district
determined by the Lord Advocate, as if the offence had been committed in that
district, and

199.11.b

the offence is, for all purposes incidental to or consequential on the trial
or punishment, deemed to have been committed in that district.

199.12

A relevant body guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

199.12.a

on conviction on indictment, to a fine;

199.12.b

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to a fine;

199.12.c

on summary conviction in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding
the statutory maximum.

199.13

In this section—

“ relevant body ” means a body corporate or a partnership (wherever
incorporated or formed); “ sheriff court district ” is to be read in
accordance with the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 (see section 307(1)
of that Act).

199.14

In this section “financial year”—

199.14.a

in relation to a UK company, has the meaning given by the Companies Act 2006
(see section 390 of that Act);

199.14.b

in relation to a relevant body that is not a UK company means—

199.14.b.i

any period in respect of which a profit and loss account of the relevant body
is required to be made up (by its constitution or by the law under which it is
established), whether that period is a year or not, or

199.14.b.ii

if the body is not required by its constitution or the law under which it is
established to draw up a profit and loss account, a calendar year.

##### Fraud offences: supplementary

200

200.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend Schedule 13 by—

200.1.a

removing an offence from the list in the Schedule, or

200.1.b

adding an offence to that list.

200.2

The power in subsection  (1)  is exercisable by the Scottish Ministers (and
not by the Secretary of State) so far as it may be used to make provision that
would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if
contained in an Act of that Parliament.

200.3

The power in subsection  (1)  is exercisable by the Department of Justice in
Northern Ireland (and not by the Secretary of State) so far as it may be used
to make provision that—

200.3.a

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

200.3.b

would not, if contained in a Bill for an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State.

200.4

An offence added under subsection  (1)(b)  must be—

200.4.a

an offence of dishonesty,

200.4.b

an offence that is otherwise of a similar character to those listed (on the
passing of this Act) in paragraphs 1 to 6 of Schedule 13, or

200.4.c

a relevant money laundering offence.

200.5

The Secretary of State may from time to time by regulations restate Schedule
13 as amended by virtue of subsections  (1)  to  (3)  (without changing the
effect of the Schedule).

200.6

For the purposes of section 199 (1) , where a fraud offence is found to have
been committed over a period of 2 or more days, or at some time during a
period of 2 or more days, and that period of days straddles the beginning of a
financial year of the relevant body in question, the fraud offence must be
taken to have been committed on the last of those days.

200.7

In this section “ relevant money laundering offence ” means an offence under
any of the following sections of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002—

200.7.a

section 327 (concealing etc);

200.7.b

section 328 (arrangements);

200.7.c

section 329 (acquisition, use and possession).

##### Section 199: large organisations

201

201.1

For the purposes of section 199 (1)  and  (2)  a relevant body is a “large
organisation” only if the body satisfied two or more of the following
conditions in the financial year of the body (“year P”) that precedes the year
of the fraud offence—

Turnover More than £36 million Balance sheet total More than £18 million
Number of employees More than 250.

201.2

The reference in subsection (1) to a relevant body does not include a relevant
body which is a parent undertaking (as to which see section 202).

201.3

For a period that is a relevant body’s financial year but not in fact a year,
the figure for turnover must be proportionately adjusted.

201.4

In subsection  (1)  the “ number of employees ” means the average number of
persons employed by the relevant body in year P, determined as follows—

201.4.a

find for each month in year P the number of persons employed under contracts
of service by the relevant body in that month (whether throughout the month or
not),

201.4.b

add together the monthly totals, and

201.4.c

divide by the number of months in year P.

201.5

In this section—

“ balance sheet total ”, in relation to a relevant body and a financial year—
means the aggregate of the amounts shown as assets in its balance sheet at the
end of the financial year, or where the body has no balance sheet for the
financial year, has a corresponding meaning; “turnover”— in relation to a UK
company, has the same meaning as in Part 15 of the Companies Act 2006 (see
section 474 of that Act); in relation to any other relevant body, has a
corresponding meaning; “year of the fraud offence” is to be interpreted in
accordance with section 199 (1) .

201.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations modify this section (other than this
subsection and subsections  (7)  and  (9) ) and section 202 for the purpose of
altering the meaning of “large organisation” in section 199 (1)  and  (2) .

201.7

The Secretary of State may (whether or not the power in subsection  (6)  has
been exercised) by regulations—

201.7.a

omit the words “which is a large organisation” in section 199 (1)  and  (2)(c)
, and

201.7.b

make any modifications of this section (other than this subsection) that the
Secretary of State thinks appropriate in consequence of provision made under
paragraph  (a) .

201.8

Before making regulations under subsection  (6)  or  (7)  the Secretary of
State must consult—

201.8.a

the Scottish Ministers, and

201.8.b

the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland.

201.9

Regulations under subsection  (6)  or  (7)  may make consequential amendments
of section 205.

##### Large organisations: parent undertakings

202

202.1

For the purposes of section 199 (1)  and  (2)  a relevant body which is a
parent undertaking is a “large organisation” only if the group headed by it
satisfied two or more of the following conditions in the financial year of the
body that precedes the year of the fraud offence—

Aggregate turnover More than £36 million net (or £43.2 million gross)
Aggregate balance sheet total More than £18 million net (or £21.6 million
gross) Aggregate number of employees More than 250.

202.2

The aggregate figures are ascertained by aggregating the relevant figures
determined in accordance with section 201 for each member of the group.

202.3

In relation to the aggregate figures for turnover and balance sheet total,
“net” and “gross”—

202.3.a

except where paragraph (b) applies, have the meaning given by subsection (6)
of section 466 of the Companies Act 2006;

202.3.b

in the case of accounts that are not of a kind specified in the definition of
“net” in that subsection, have a corresponding meaning.

202.4

In this section—

“ balance sheet total ” (in relation to a relevant body and a financial year)
has the same meaning as in section 201; “ group ” means a parent undertaking
and its subsidiary undertakings; “ turnover ” (in relation to a UK company or
other relevant body) has the same meaning as in section 201; “year of the
fraud offence” is to be interpreted in accordance with section 199 (1)  or
(2)  (as the case requires).

202.5

In this section “balance sheet total” and “ turnover ”, in relation to a
subsidiary undertaking which is not a relevant body, have a meaning
corresponding to the meaning given by subsection  (4) .

##### Offences under section 199 committed by partnerships

203

203.1

Proceedings for an offence under section 199 alleged to have been committed by
a partnership must be brought in the name of the partnership (and not in that
of any of the partners).

203.2

For the purposes of such proceedings—

203.2.a

rules of court relating to the service of documents have effect as if the
partnership were a body corporate, and

203.2.b

the following provisions apply as they apply in relation to a body corporate—

203.2.b.i

section 33 of the Criminal Justice Act 1925 and Schedule 3 to the Magistrates’
Courts Act 1980;

203.2.b.ii

section 18 of the  Criminal Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 1945 (c. 15 (N.I.))
and Schedule 4 to the Magistrates’ Courts (Northern Ireland) Order 1981 ( S.I.
1981/1675 (N.I. 26) );

203.2.b.iii

sections 34(2), 66(6AA) and 72D(2) of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act
1995.

203.3

A fine imposed on the partnership on its conviction for an offence under
section 199 is to be paid out of the partnership assets.

##### Guidance about preventing fraud offences

204

204.1

The Secretary of State must issue guidance about procedures that relevant
bodies can put in place to prevent persons associated with them from
committing fraud offences as mentioned in section 199 (1) .

204.2

The Secretary of State may from time to time revise the whole or any part of
the guidance issued under this section.

204.3

The Secretary of State must publish—

204.3.a

any guidance issued under this section;

204.3.b

any revision of that guidance.

204.4

Before issuing or revising guidance under this section the Secretary of State
must consult—

204.4.a

the Scottish Ministers, and

204.4.b

the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland.

204.5

The requirement to consult those persons may be satisfied by consultation
carried out before this section comes into force.

##### Failure to prevent fraud: minor definitions

205

205.1

This section applies for the purposes of sections 199 to 204.

205.2

References to a person “associated with” a relevant body are to be interpreted
in accordance with section 199 (7) .

205.3

“ Financial year ” has the meaning given by section 199 (14) .

205.4

“ Fraud offence ” has the meaning given by section 199 (6) .

205.5

“ Modify ” includes amend or repeal (and references to modifications are to be
interpreted accordingly).

205.6

“ Parent undertaking ” has the same meaning as in the Companies Acts (see
section 1162 of the Companies Act 2006).

205.7

“ Partnership ” means—

205.7.a

a partnership within the meaning of the Partnership Act 1890;

205.7.b

a limited partnership registered under the Limited Partnerships Act 1907;

205.7.c

a firm or other entity of a similar character to one within paragraph (a) or
(b) formed under the law of a country or territory outside the United Kingdom.

205.8

“ Relevant body ” has the meaning given by section 199 (13) .

205.9

“ Subsidiary undertaking ” has the same meaning as in the Companies Acts (see
section 1162 of the Companies Act 2006).

205.10

“ UK company ” means a company formed and registered under the Companies Act
2006.

##### Failure to prevent fraud: miscellaneous

206

206.1

In section 61(1) of the Serious Organised Crime and Police Act 2005 (offences
to which certain investigatory powers apply), at the end insert—

206.1.k

an offence under section 199 of the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency
Act 2023 (failure to prevent fraud offences).

206.2

In Schedule 1 to the Serious Crime Act 2007 (offences which are serious
offences for purposes of serious crime prevention orders)—

206.2.a

in Part 1 (serious offences in England and Wales), in paragraph 7, after sub-
paragraph (2) insert—

206.2.a.2A

An offence under section 199 of the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency
Act 2023 (failure to prevent fraud offences).

;

206.2.b

in Part 1A (serious offences in Scotland), in paragraph 16J, after sub-
paragraph (1) insert—

206.2.b.1A

An offence under section 199 of the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency
Act 2023 (failure to prevent fraud offences).

;

206.2.c

in Part 2 (serious offences in Northern Ireland), in paragraph 23, after sub-
paragraph (2) insert—

206.2.c.2A

An offence under section 199 of the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency
Act 2023 (failure to prevent fraud offences).

206.3

In Part 2 of Schedule 17 to the Crime and Courts Act 2013 (offences in
relation to which a deferred prosecution agreement may be entered into), after
paragraph 27A insert—

206.3.27B

An offence under section 199 of the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency
Act 2023 (failure to prevent fraud offences).

#### Regulatory and investigatory powers

##### Law Society: powers to fine in cases relating to economic crime

207

207.1

In section 44D of the Solicitors Act 1974 (disciplinary powers of Law
Society), after subsection (2) insert—

207.1.2A

In a case where this subsection applies, subsection (2)(b) has effect as if
the words after “ penalty ” (which set a limit on the amount of the penalty a
person may be directed to pay) were omitted.

207.1.2B

Subsection (2A) applies where the Society takes action against a person under
subsection (2)(b)—

207.1.2B.a

for failure to comply with a requirement or rule referred to in subsection
(1)(a), where—

207.1.2B.a.i

the requirement or rule applies only for purposes relating to the prevention
or detection of economic crime, or

207.1.2B.a.ii

the failure consisted of an act or omission which had the effect of inhibiting
the prevention or detection of economic crime, or

207.1.2B.b

for professional misconduct as referred to in subsection (1)(b), where the
misconduct consisted of an act or omission which had the effect of inhibiting
the prevention or detection of economic crime.

207.1.2C

In subsection (2B) “ economic crime ” has the meaning given by section 193(1)
of the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023.

207.2

In paragraph 14B of Schedule 2 to the Administration of Justice Act 1985
(disciplinary powers of Law Society), after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

207.2.2A

In a case where this sub-paragraph applies, sub-paragraph (2)(b) has effect as
if the words after “ penalty ” (which set a limit on the amount of the penalty
a person may be directed to pay) were omitted.

207.2.2B

Sub-paragraph (2A) applies where the Society takes action against a person
under sub-paragraph (2)(b) for failure to comply with a requirement or rule
referred to in sub-paragraph (1) where—

207.2.2B.a

the requirement or rule applies only for purposes relating to the prevention
or detection of economic crime, or

207.2.2B.b

the failure consisted of an act or omission which had the effect of inhibiting
the prevention or detection of economic crime.

207.2.2C

In sub-paragraph (2B) “ economic crime ” has the meaning given by section
193(1) of the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023.

207.3

The amendments made by this section do not apply in relation to any act or
omission occurring before the day on which this section comes into force.

##### Scottish Solicitors’ Discipline Tribunal: powers to fine in cases relating to economic crime

208

208.1

Section 53 of the Solicitors (Scotland) Act 1980 (powers of tribunal) is
amended as follows.

208.2

In subsection (1)—

208.2.a

in paragraph (b)—

208.2.a.i

after “dishonesty” insert  “(other than a conviction for an economic crime
offence)” ;

208.2.a.ii

after “or has” insert  “(other than in relation to a conviction for an
economic crime offence)” ;

208.2.b

after paragraph (b) insert—

208.2.b.ba

a solicitor has (whether before or after enrolment as a solicitor) been
convicted by any court of an economic crime offence, or

;

208.2.c

in paragraph (c), after “offence” insert  “(other than a conviction for an
economic crime offence)” ;

208.2.d

after paragraph (c) insert—

208.2.d.ca

an incorporated practice has been convicted by any court of an economic crime
offence, which conviction the Tribunal is satisfied renders it unsuitable to
continue to be recognised under section 34(1A), or

.

208.3

In subsection (2), after paragraph (c), insert—

208.3.ca

where the Tribunal is proceeding on the ground in subsection (1)(ba) or
(1)(ca), or where subsection (2A) or (2B) applies, impose on the solicitor or,
as the case may be, the incorporated practice, a fine of any amount.

208.4

After subsection (2) insert—

208.4.2A

This subsection applies where the Tribunal is proceeding on the ground
referred to in subsection (1)(a) and —

208.4.2A.a

the solicitor has, in relation to the subject matter of the Tribunal’s
inquiry, been convicted by any court of an economic crime offence, or

208.4.2A.b

the misconduct referred to in subsection (1)(a) consisted of an act or
omission which had the effect of inhibiting the prevention or detection of an
economic crime offence.

208.4.2B

This subsection applies where the Tribunal is proceeding on the ground
referred to in subsection (1)(d) and the incorporated practice has —

208.4.2B.a

in relation to the subject matter of the Tribunal’s inquiry, been convicted by
any court of an economic crime offence, or

208.4.2B.b

failed to comply with a provision or rule as referred to in subsection (1)(d)
and—

208.4.2B.b.i

the failure consisted of an act or omission which had the effect of inhibiting
the prevention or detection of an economic crime offence, or

208.4.2B.b.ii

the provision or rule applies only for purposes relating to the prevention or
detection of an economic crime offence.

208.5

In subsection (3ZA)—

208.5.a

in paragraph (a), after “dishonesty” insert  “(not being an economic crime
offence)” ;

208.5.b

in paragraph (b), at the end insert  “, (1)(ba) or (1)(ca)” ;

208.5.c

after paragraph (b), insert—

208.5.c.c

where subsection (2A) or (3A) applies.

208.6

In subsection (3A)—

208.6.a

in paragraph (a), for “(1)(a) or (b)” substitute  “(1)(a), (b) or (ba)” ;

208.6.b

in paragraph (b), for “(1)(c) or (d)” substitute  “(1)(c), (ca) or (d)” .

208.7

After subsection (9) insert—

208.7.9A

In this section, an economic crime offence means an economic crime within the
meaning given by section 193 (1)  of the Economic Crime and Corporate
Transparency Act 2023.

208.8

The amendments made by this section do not apply in relation to any act or
omission occurring before the day on which this section comes into force.

##### Regulators of legal services: objective relating to economic crime

209

209.1

Section 1 of the Legal Services Act 2007 (regulatory objectives) is amended as
follows.

209.2

In subsection (1), after paragraph (h) insert—

209.2.i

promoting the prevention and detection of economic crime.

209.3

After subsection (4) insert—

209.3.5

In subsection (1)(i) “ economic crime ” has the meaning given by section
193(1) of the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023

.

##### Approved regulators: information powers relating to economic crime

210

210.1

The Legal Services Act 2007 is amended as follows.

210.2

After section 111 insert—

########### Approved regulators: information powers

############ The Law Society’s information powers relating to economic crime

############# The Law Society’s information powers relating to economic crime

210.2.111A

210.2.111A.1

The Law Society may, by notice, require a person falling within subsection
(3)  to—

210.2.111A.1.a

provide information, or information of a description, specified in the notice;

210.2.111A.1.b

produce documents, or documents of a description, specified in the notice.

210.2.111A.2

The Law Society may only exercise the power in subsection  (1)  in relation to
information or documents which the Law Society considers it necessary or
expedient to have for the purposes of, or in connection with, the performance
of its regulatory functions for purposes relating to the prevention or
detection of economic crime.

210.2.111A.3

The persons are—

210.2.111A.3.a

a solicitor;

210.2.111A.3.b

an employee of a solicitor;

210.2.111A.3.c

a body recognised under section 9 of the Administration of Justice Act 1985;

210.2.111A.3.d

an employee or manager of, or person with an interest in, such a body;

210.2.111A.3.e

a licensed body;

210.2.111A.3.f

a manager or employee of a licensed body;

210.2.111A.3.g

a non-authorised person who has an interest or an indirect interest, or holds
a material interest (within the meaning of Part 5 of this Act), in a licensed
body;

210.2.111A.3.h

a person who was, but is no longer, of a description mentioned within any of
paragraphs  (a)  to  (g) .

210.2.111A.4

A notice under subsection  (1) —

210.2.111A.4.a

may specify the manner and form in which the information is to be provided or
document produced;

210.2.111A.4.b

must specify the period within which the information is to be provided or
document produced;

210.2.111A.4.c

may require the information to be provided, or document to be produced, to the
Law Society or to a person specified in the notice.

210.2.111A.5

The Law Society may pay to any person such reasonable costs as may be incurred
by that person in connection with the provision of any information, or
production of any document, by that person pursuant to a notice under
subsection  (1) .

210.2.111A.6

The Law Society, or a person specified under subsection  (4)(c)  in a notice,
may take copies of or extracts from a document produced pursuant to a notice
under subsection  (1) .

210.2.111A.7

In this section “ economic crime ” has the meaning given by section 193(1) of
the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023.

############# Enforcement of information powers relating to economic crime

210.2.111B

210.2.111B.1

If a person refuses or otherwise fails to comply with a notice under section
111A (1) , the Law Society may apply to the High Court for an order requiring
the person to comply with the notice or with such directions for the like
purpose as may be contained in the order.

210.2.111B.2

On an application under subsection  (1) , the High Court may order a person
other than the person to whom the notice was given to provide information or
produce documents specified in the notice, if the High Court is satisfied that
there is reason to suspect that the information or documents have come into
the possession or custody or under the control of that other person.

210.2.111B.3

Section  111A (4)  applies in relation to an order under subsection  (2)  as
it applies in relation to a notice under section  111A (1) .

210.2.111B.4

An order under this section may direct the Law Society to pay such reasonable
costs as may be incurred by a person in connection with the provision of any
information, or production of any document, by that person pursuant to the
order.

210.2.111B.5

A person may take copies of or extracts from a document produced to them
pursuant to an order under this section.

############# Provision of information relating to economic crime by other persons

210.2.111C

210.2.111C.1

The Law Society may apply to the High Court for an order requiring a person
who does not fall within section  111A (3)  to—

210.2.111C.1.a

provide information, or information of a description, specified in the order,
or

210.2.111C.1.b

produce documents, or documents of a description, specified in the order.

210.2.111C.2

The High Court may make an order under this section only if it is satisfied—

210.2.111C.2.a

that it is likely that the information or document is in the possession or
custody of, or under the control of, the person, and

210.2.111C.2.b

that it is necessary or expedient for the Law Society to have the information
or document for the purposes of, or in connection with, the performance of its
regulatory functions for purposes relating to the prevention or detection of
economic crime.

210.2.111C.3

Section  111A (4)  applies in relation to an order under this section as it
applies in relation to a notice under section  111A (1) .

210.2.111C.4

An order under this section may direct the Law Society to pay such reasonable
costs as may be incurred by a person in connection with the provision of any
information, or production of any document, by that person pursuant to the
order.

210.2.111C.5

A person may take copies of or extracts from a document produced to them
pursuant to an order under this section.

210.2.111C.6

In this section “ economic crime ” has the meaning given by section 193(1) of
the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023.

############ Other approved regulators: information powers relating to economic crime

############# Order to confer information powers on other approved regulators

210.2.111D

210.2.111D.1

The Lord Chancellor may by order amend this Part so as to—

210.2.111D.1.a

provide for sections  111A  to  111C  to apply in relation to an approved
regulator other than the Law Society as they apply in relation to the Law
Society, and

210.2.111D.1.b

specify the persons to whom notices under section  111A (1)  may be given by
that approved regulator.

210.2.111D.2

The Lord Chancellor may make an order under this section in relation to an
approved regulator only if—

210.2.111D.2.a

the Board has made a recommendation in accordance with section 111E in
relation to that approved regulator, and

210.2.111D.2.b

the persons specified in the order to whom notices under section 111A(1) may
be given by that approved regulator are the same as those persons specified in
the recommendation.

############# The Board’s power to recommend orders under section 111D

210.2.111E

210.2.111E.1

The Board may recommend to the Lord Chancellor that the Lord Chancellor make
an order under section  111D  in relation to an approved regulator.

210.2.111E.2

A recommendation must specify the persons to whom the approved regulator
should be able to give notices under section  111A (1) .

210.2.111E.3

A recommendation may only be made with the consent of the approved regulator.

210.2.111E.4

Before making a recommendation under this section, the Board must publish a
draft of the proposed recommendation.

210.2.111E.5

The draft must be accompanied by a notice which states that representations
about the proposed recommendation may be made to the Board within a specified
period.

210.2.111E.6

Before making the recommendation, the Board must have regard to any
representations duly made.

210.3

In section 206 (parliamentary control of orders and regulations), in
subsection (4), after paragraph (n) insert—

210.3.na

section 111D (order to confer information powers on other approved
regulators);

.

##### Serious Fraud Office: pre-investigation powers

211

211.1

In section 2A of the Criminal Justice Act 1987 (Director’s pre-investigation
powers in relation to bribery and corruption: foreign officers etc), omit the
following—

211.1.a

in the heading, the words from “in relation to” to the end;

211.1.b

in subsection (1), the words from “in a case” to the end;

211.1.c

subsection (5).

211.2

In Schedule 1 to the Bribery Act 2010 (consequential amendments), omit
paragraph 2 and the preceding italic heading.

#### Reports on payments to governments

##### Reports on payments to governments regulations: false statement offences etc

212

For regulation 16 of the Reports on Payments to Governments Regulations 2014 (
S.I. 2014/3209 ) substitute—

######### False statements: basic offence

212.16

212.16.1

It is an offence for a person, without reasonable excuse, to—

212.16.1.a

deliver or cause to be delivered to the registrar, for the purposes of these
Regulations, a document that is misleading, false or deceptive in a material
particular, or

212.16.1.b

make to the registrar, for the purposes of these Regulations, a statement that
is misleading, false or deceptive in a material particular.

212.16.2

Where the offence is committed by a firm, every officer of the firm who is in
default also commits the offence.

212.16.3

In paragraph  (2)  “ firm ” has the meaning given by section 1173(1) of the
Act.

212.16.4

Sections 1121 to 1123 of the Act (liability of officers default:
interpretation etc) apply for the purposes of paragraph  (2)  as they apply
for the purposes of provisions of the Companies Acts.

212.16.5

A person guilty of an offence under this regulation is liable—

212.16.5.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to a fine;

212.16.5.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale;

212.16.5.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on
the standard scale.

212.16.6

No proceedings are to be brought for an offence under this regulation—

212.16.6.a

in England and Wales except by or with the consent of the Secretary of State
or the Director of Public Prosecutions;

212.16.6.b

in Northern Ireland except by or with the consent of the Secretary of State or
the Director of Public Prosecutions for Northern Ireland.

######### False statements: aggravated offence

212.16BA

212.16BA.1

It is an offence for a person knowingly to—

212.16BA.1.a

deliver or cause to be delivered to the registrar, for the purposes of these
Regulations, a document that is misleading, false or deceptive in a material
particular, or

212.16BA.1.b

make to the registrar, for the purposes of these Regulations, a statement that
is misleading, false or deceptive in a material particular.

212.16BA.2

Where the offence is committed by a firm, every officer of the firm who is in
default also commits the offence.

212.16BA.3

In paragraph  (2)  “ firm ” has the meaning given by section 1173(1) of the
Act.

212.16BA.4

Sections 1121 to 1123 of the Act (liability of officers default:
interpretation etc) apply for the purposes of paragraph  (2)  as they apply
for the purposes of provisions of the Companies Acts.

212.16BA.5

A person guilty of an offence under this regulation is liable—

212.16BA.5.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both);

212.16BA.5.b

on summary conviction—

212.16BA.5.b.i

in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the general
limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

212.16BA.5.b.ii

in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or a fine not
exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

212.16BA.5.b.iii

in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a
fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both).

212.16BA.6

No proceedings are to be brought for an offence under this regulation—

212.16BA.6.a

in England and Wales except by or with the consent of the Secretary of State
or the Director of Public Prosecutions;

212.16BA.6.b

in Northern Ireland except by or with the consent of the Secretary of State or
the Director of Public Prosecutions for Northern Ireland.

#### Reports on implementation

##### Reports on the implementation and operation of Parts 1 to 3

213

213.1

The Secretary of State must—

213.1.a

prepare reports on the implementation and operation of Parts 1 to 3, and

213.1.b

lay a copy of each report before Parliament.

213.2

The first report must be laid within the period of 6 months beginning with the
day on which this Act is passed.

213.3

Each subsequent report must be laid within the period of 12 months beginning
with the day on which the previous report was laid.

213.4

But the duty to prepare and lay reports under subsection (1) ceases with the
laying of the first report on or after 1 January 2030.

#### Sanctions enforcement: monetary penalties

##### Sanctions enforcement: monetary penalties

214

214.1

In section 143 of the Policing and Crime Act 2017 (interpretation), in
subsection (4) (meaning of “ financial sanctions legislation ”), in paragraph
(f)—

214.1.a

the words from “contains” to the end become sub-paragraph (i);

214.1.b

at the end of that sub-paragraph insert—

;

214.1.b.ii

makes supplemental provision (within the meaning of section 1(6) of that Act)
in connection with any prohibition or requirement mentioned in sub-paragraph
(i).

214.2

The Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018 is amended as follows.

214.3

In section 17 (enforcement), in subsection (9), in paragraph (a), after “(2)”
insert  “or makes supplemental provision in connection with any such
prohibition or requirement” .

214.4

After section 17 insert—

########### Enforcement: monetary penalties

214.4.17A

214.4.17A.1

The provision that may be made by virtue of section 17(2) (enforcement of
prohibitions or requirements) includes provision authorising a prescribed
person to impose a monetary penalty on another person if satisfied, to the
prescribed standard of proof, that the other person has breached a
prohibition, or failed to comply with a requirement, that is imposed by or
under regulations.

214.4.17A.2

Regulations authorising the Treasury to impose a monetary penalty in respect
of a breach or failure for which the Treasury could impose a monetary penalty
under Part 8 of the Policing and Crime Act 2017 may not be made unless the
regulations also make provision of the kind mentioned in section 17(9) to
disapply Part 8 of that Act in respect of that breach or failure.

214.4.17A.3

Regulations authorising the imposition of a monetary penalty may make
provision that, in determining for the purposes of the regulations whether a
person has breached a prohibition, or failed to comply with a requirement, any
requirement relating to the person’s knowledge or intention is to be ignored.

214.4.17A.4

Regulations authorising the imposition of a monetary penalty must provide
that—

214.4.17A.4.a

a person is not liable to such a penalty in respect of conduct amounting to an
offence if—

214.4.17A.4.a.i

proceedings have been brought against the person for that offence in respect
of that conduct and the proceedings are ongoing, or

214.4.17A.4.a.ii

the person has been convicted of that offence in respect of that conduct, and

214.4.17A.4.b

no proceedings may be brought against a person in respect of conduct amounting
to an offence if the person has been given such a penalty under the
regulations in respect of that conduct.

214.4.17A.5

Where regulations authorising the imposition of a monetary penalty authorise a
prescribed person to determine the amount of the penalty, the regulations must
provide for a maximum penalty.

214.4.17A.6

The maximum penalty may be a prescribed sum of any amount or may be calculated
in accordance with the regulations.

214.4.17A.7

In this section—

“ conduct ” means an act or omission; “regulations” mean regulations under
section 1.

#### Report on costs orders for proceedings for civil recovery

##### Report on costs orders for proceedings for civil recovery

215

215.1

The Secretary of State must assess whether it would be appropriate to restrict
the court’s power to order that the costs of proceedings under Chapter 2 of
Part 5 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 are payable by an enforcement
authority and, if so, how.

215.2

In carrying out the assessment, the Secretary of State must consult such
persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

215.3

The Secretary of State must publish and lay before Parliament a report on the
outcome of the assessment by the end of the period of 12 months beginning with
the day on which this Act is passed.

215.4

In this section “ the court ” means the High Court in England and Wales.

### General

#### Power to make consequential provision

216

216.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision that is consequential
on this Act.

216.2

Regulations under this section may amend, repeal or revoke provision made by
or under primary legislation passed—

216.2.a

before this Act, or

216.2.b

later in the same session of Parliament as this Act.

216.3

In this section “ primary legislation ” means—

216.3.a

an Act,

216.3.b

an Act or Measure of Senedd Cymru,

216.3.c

an Act of the Scottish Parliament, or

216.3.d

Northern Ireland legislation.

#### Regulations

217

217.1

A power to make regulations under any provision of this Act includes power to
make—

217.1.a

consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional or saving provision;

217.1.b

different provision for different purposes.

217.2

Regulations made by the Secretary of State or the Lord Chancellor under this
Act are to be made by statutory instrument.

217.3

For regulations made under this Act by the Scottish Ministers, see section 27
of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act  2010 (asp 10)
(Scottish statutory instruments).

217.4

Any power of the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland to make regulations
under this Act is exercisable by statutory rule for the purposes of the
Statutory Rules (Northern Ireland) Order 1979 ( S.I. 1979/1573 (N.I. 12) ).

217.5

A statutory instrument containing any of the following (whether alone or with
other provision) may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been
laid before and approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament—

217.5.a

regulations under section 37;

217.5.b

regulations under section 39;

217.5.c

regulations under section 153, unless they are regulations under that section
that only make provision that corresponds or is similar to provision made or
capable of being made by a statutory instrument that is itself subject to
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament;

217.5.d

regulations under section 178;

217.5.e

regulations under section 193;

217.5.f

regulations made by the Secretary of State under section 197 (1) ;

217.5.g

regulations made by the Secretary of State under section 200 (1) ;

217.5.h

regulations under section 201 (6)  or  (7) ;

217.5.i

regulations under section 216 that amend or repeal provision made by an Act.

217.6

Any other statutory instrument containing regulations under this Act is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

217.7

But subsection  (6)  does not apply to a statutory instrument that only
contains regulations appointing the appointed day for the purposes of section
50.

217.8

Regulations made by the Scottish Ministers under section 197 (1)  or 200 (1)
are subject to the affirmative procedure (see section 29 of the Interpretation
and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act  2010 (asp 10) ).

217.9

Regulations made by the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland under
section 197 (1)  or 200 (1)  may not be made unless a draft of the regulations
has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, the Northern Ireland
Assembly.

217.10

This section does not apply to regulations under sections 219 and 220.

#### Extent

218

218.1

This Act extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland, subject
to subsections  (2)  and  (3) .

218.2

Sections 194 and 195 extend to England and Wales only.

218.3

An amendment, repeal or revocation made by this Act has the same extent as the
provision amended, repealed or revoked.

#### Commencement

219

219.1

Except as provided by subsections  (2)  to  (5) , this Act comes into force on
such day as the Secretary of State or the Lord Chancellor may by regulations
made by statutory instrument appoint.

219.2

The following come into force on the day on which this Act is passed—

219.2.a

this Part;

219.2.b

any provision of, or amendment made by, Parts 1 to 5 so far as it confers a
power to make regulations or relates to the exercise of the power;

219.2.c

paragraph 1 of Schedule 9 so far as it inserts section 303Z25 into the
Proceeds of Crime Act 2002;

219.2.d

paragraph 17 of Schedule 9 so far as it relates to that section;

219.2.e

section 180 so far as it relates to the provisions mentioned in paragraphs
(c)  and  (d) ;

219.2.f

section 182;

219.2.g

section 184;

219.2.h

section 185(12) and (13);

219.2.i

section 186(13) and (14).

219.3

The following come into force at the end of the period of 2 months beginning
with the day on which this Act is passed—

219.3.a

section 196 and Schedule 12;

219.3.b

section 197;

219.3.c

section 198;

219.3.d

section 213.

219.4

The following come into force (so far as not brought into force by subsection
(2)(b) ) on such day as the Scottish Ministers may by regulations appoint
after consulting the Secretary of State—

219.4.a

Part 2 of Schedule 8, and

219.4.b

section 179 so far as it relates to that Part.

219.5

The following come into force (so far as not brought into force by subsection
(2)(b) ) on such day as the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland may by
order appoint after consulting the Secretary of State—

219.5.a

Part 3 of Schedule 8, and

219.5.b

section 179 so far as it relates to that Part.

219.6

No regulations may be made under subsection  (1)  bringing into force any of
the following provisions, so far as they extend to Scotland, unless the
Secretary of State has consulted the Scottish Ministers—

219.6.a

Schedule 9, and

219.6.b

section 180 so far as it relates to that Schedule.

219.7

No regulations may be made under subsection  (1)  bringing into force any of
the following provisions, so far as they extend to Northern Ireland, unless
the Secretary of State has consulted the Department of Justice in Northern
Ireland—

219.7.a

Schedule 9, other than paragraphs 6(7), 10 and 11, and

219.7.b

section 180 so far as it relates to that Schedule, other than paragraphs 6(7),
10 and 11.

219.8

No regulations may be made under subsection  (1)  bringing into force section
199 unless the Secretary of State has published guidance under section 204(3).

219.9

Regulations under subsection  (1)  or  (4) , and orders subsection  (5) , may
appoint different days for—

219.9.a

different purposes, and

219.9.b

where regulations under subsection  (1)  appoint a day for the coming into
force of any provision of Schedule 9 or 10, different areas.

219.10

A power of the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland to make an order
under subsection  (5)  is exercisable by statutory rule for the purposes of
the Statutory Rules (Northern Ireland) Order 1979 ( S.I. 1979/1573 (N.I. 12)
).

#### Transitional provision

220

220.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument make
transitional or saving provision in connection with the coming into force of
any provision of this Act, other than a provision mentioned in section 219 (4)
or  (5) .

220.2

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make transitional or saving
provision in connection with the coming into force of a provision mentioned in
section 219 (4) .

220.3

The Department of Justice in Northern Ireland may by order make transitional
or saving provision in connection with the coming into force of a provision
mentioned in section 219 (5) .

220.4

The power to make regulations under subsection  (1)  or  (2) , and the power
to make orders under subsection  (3) , includes power to make different
provision for—

220.4.a

different purposes, and

220.4.b

where regulations under subsection  (1)  make provision in connection with the
coming into force of any provision of Schedule 9 or 10, different areas.

220.5

Transitional provision and savings made under subsections  (1)  to  (3)  are
additional, and without prejudice, to those made by or under any other
provision of this Act.

220.6

A power of the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland to make an order
under subsection  (3)  is exercisable by statutory rule for the purposes of
the Statutory Rules (Northern Ireland) Order 1979 ( S.I. 1979/1573 (N.I. 12)
).

#### Short title

221

This Act may be cited as the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act
2023.

## SCHEDULES

Register of members: consequential amendments

Section 49

1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

2

In section 112 (the members of a company), omit subsection (3).

3

3.1

Section 127 (register to be evidence) is amended as follows.

3.2

The existing text becomes subsection (1).

3.3

In that subsection “for section 128H” substitute  “subsection (2)” .

3.4

After that subsection insert—

3.4.2

The central register is prima facie evidence of any matters about which a
company was required to deliver information to the registrar under Chapter 2A
by virtue of an election under section 128B at any time before the repeal of
that Chapter (including that section) by the Economic Crime and Corporate
Transparency Act 2023.

3.4.3

Subsection  (2)  does not apply to information required to be included in a
statement under section 128B(5)(b) or in any updated statement under section
128B(6) before their repeal by that Act.

3.4.4

In this section “ the central register ” means the register kept by the
registrar (see section 1080).

4

In section 129 (overseas branch registers), omit subsection (6).

5

In section 286 (votes of joint holders of shares), in subsection (2), omit the
words from “(or” to “section 1080)”.

6

In section 311 (contents of notices of meetings), in subsection (3)(b)(i),
omit the words from “(or” to “section 1080)”.

7

In section 360B (traded companies: requirements for participating in and
voting at general meetings), omit subsection (5).

8

In section 554 (registration of allotment), omit subsection (2A).

9

In section 558 (when shares are allotted), omit the words from “(or” to
“registrar)”.

10

In section 588 (liability of subsequent holders of shares), in subsection
(3)(a), omit the words from “(or” to “registrar)”.

11

In section 605 (liability of subsequent holders of shares), in subsection
(4)(a), omit the words from “(or” to “registrar)”.

12

In section 616 (interpretation of Chapter 7), in subsection (3), omit the
words from “(or” to “registrar)”.

13

In section 655 (shares no bar to damages against company), omit the words from
“(or” to “registrar)”.

14

In section 724 (Treasury shares), in subsection (4), omit the words from “(or”
to “Part 8)”.

15

In section 770 (registration of transfer), omit subsection (3).

16

In section 771 (procedure on transfer being lodged), omit subsection (2A).

17

In section 772 (transfer of shares on application of transferor)—

17.a

omit the words from “(or” to “Part 8)”;

17.b

omit “(or delivery)”.

18

In section 786 (provision enabling or requiring arrangements to be adopted),
in subsection (3)(a), omit the words from “(or” to “Part 8)”.

19

In section 853B (duties to notify a relevant event), omit paragraph (b).

20

In section 853F (duty to deliver shareholder information: non-traded
companies), in subsection (1), omit paragraph (b) and the “and” before it.

21

In section 1028A (administrative restoration of company with share warrants),
in subsection (7), omit paragraph (b) and the “or” before it.

22

In section 1032A (restoration by court of company with share warrants), in
subsection (8), omit paragraph (b) and the “or” before it.

23

23.1

Section 1081 (annotation of the register) is amended as follows.

23.2

Omit subsection (1A).

23.3

In subsection (6), omit “or (1A)”.

24

In section 1136 (regulations about where certain company records to be kept
available for inspection), in subsection (2), omit the entry for section 128D
(historic register of members).

25

In Schedule 5 (communications by a company), in paragraph 16, omit sub-
paragraph (3A).

Abolition of certain local registers

Section 51

##### Register of directors

1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

2

Omit—

2.a

sections 161A to 167F (register of directors etc);

2.b

the italic heading before section 161A.

3

3.1

Before section 168 (and before the italic heading before that section) insert—

########### Notification of information about directors

############ Duty to notify registrar of change in directors

3.1.167G

3.1.167G.1

A company must give notice to the registrar if a person—

3.1.167G.1.a

becomes a director of the company, or

3.1.167G.1.b

ceases to be a director of the company.

3.1.167G.2

The notice must specify the date on which the person became or ceased to be a
director of the company.

3.1.167G.3

A notice under subsection  (1)(a)  of a person having become a director must
contain—

3.1.167G.3.a

a statement of the required information about the new director (see sections
167J  and  167K );

3.1.167G.3.b

a statement by the company that the person has consented to act in that
capacity;

3.1.167G.3.c

if the person is an individual, a statement that their identity is verified
(see section 1110A);

3.1.167G.3.d

a statement that the person is not—

3.1.167G.3.d.i

disqualified under the directors disqualification legislation (see section
159A(2)), or

3.1.167G.3.d.ii

otherwise ineligible by virtue of any enactment for appointment as a director;

3.1.167G.3.e

if the person would be disqualified under the directors disqualification
legislation but for the permission of a court to act, a statement to that
effect specifying—

3.1.167G.3.e.i

the court by which permission was given, and

3.1.167G.3.e.ii

the date on which permission was given.

3.1.167G.3.f

if the person would be disqualified under the directors disqualification
legislation by virtue of section 11A of the Company Directors Disqualification
Act 1986 or Article 15A of the Company Directors Disqualification (Northern
Ireland) Order 2002 (designated persons under sanctions legislation) but for
the authority of a licence of the kind mentioned in that section or Article, a
statement to that effect specifying—

3.1.167G.3.f.i

the date on which the licence was issued, and

3.1.167G.3.f.ii

by whom it was issued.

3.1.167G.4

In subsection  (3)(e)  “ permission of a court to act ” means permission of a
court under a provision mentioned in column 2 of the table in section 159A(2).

3.1.167G.5

Subsection  (1)(a)  does not require a company, on its incorporation, to give
notice in relation to a person named as a proposed director in the statement
under section 12.

3.1.167G.6

A notice under this section must be given within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the person becomes or ceases to be a director.

############ Duty to notify registrar of changes of information

3.1.167H

3.1.167H.1

A company must give notice to the registrar of any change in the required
information about a director (see sections  167J  and  167K ).

3.1.167H.2

The notice must specify the date on which the change occurred.

3.1.167H.3

A notice under this section must be given within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the change occurs.

3.1.167H.4

Where a company gives notice of a change of a director’s service address but
not their residential address, the notice must contain a statement that the
residential address is unchanged.

############ Notification of changes occurring before company’s incorporation

3.1.167I

3.1.167I.1

A company must give notice to the registrar if a person named in the statement
under section 12 as a proposed director of the company did not become a
director on its incorporation.

3.1.167I.2

A company must give notice to the registrar of any change in the required
information about a proposed director that occurred—

3.1.167I.2.a

after the application for the company’s registration under section 9 was
delivered to the registrar, but

3.1.167I.2.b

before the company was incorporated.

3.1.167I.3

But a company is not required to give notice under subsection  (2)  in respect
of a person if it gives notice under subsection  (1)  in respect of the
person.

3.1.167I.4

A notice under subsection  (2)  must specify the date on which the change
occurred.

3.1.167I.5

A notice under this section must be given within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the company was incorporated.

############ Required information about a director: individuals

3.1.167J

3.1.167J.1

The required information about a director (or proposed director) who is an
individual is—

3.1.167J.1.a

name, date of birth and nationality;

3.1.167J.1.b

any relevant former names;

3.1.167J.1.c

a service address (which may be stated as “The company’s registered office”);

3.1.167J.1.d

usual residential address;

3.1.167J.1.e

the part of the United Kingdom in which the individual is usually resident or,
if the individual is usually resident in a country or state outside the United
Kingdom, that country or state.

3.1.167J.2

In subsection  (1)(b)  “ relevant former name ” means any former name other
than—

3.1.167J.2.a

in the case of a peer, or an individual normally known by a British title, the
name by which the individual was known previous to the adoption of or
succession to the title, or

3.1.167J.2.b

in the case of any person—

3.1.167J.2.b.i

a former name which was changed or disused before the person attained the age
of 16 years,

3.1.167J.2.b.ii

a former name which has been changed or disused for 20 years or more, or

3.1.167J.2.b.iii

a former name which the registrar is required to refrain from making available
for public inspection or from disclosing (or both) by virtue of regulations
under section  1088 (1)(a)  or  (b) .

3.1.167J.3

In this section—

“ former name ” means a name by which the individual was formerly known for
business purposes; “ name ” means the individual’s forename and surname.

3.1.167J.4

Where a director (or proposed director) is a peer or an individual usually
known by a title, any requirement imposed by this Act to provide the
individual’s name because it forms part of the required information may be
satisfied by providing that title instead of the individual’s forename and
surname.

3.1.167J.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

3.1.167J.5.a

amend this section so as to change the required information about a director
(or proposed director) who is an individual;

3.1.167J.5.b

repeal subsection  (4) .

3.1.167J.6

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

############ Required information about a director: corporate directors and firms

3.1.167K

3.1.167K.1

The required information about a director (or proposed director) that is a
body corporate, or a firm that is a legal person under the law by which it is
governed, is—

3.1.167K.1.a

corporate or firm name;

3.1.167K.1.b

principal office;

3.1.167K.1.c

a service address (which may be stated as “The company’s registered office”);

3.1.167K.1.d

in the case of a limited company that is a UK-registered company, the
registered number;

3.1.167K.1.e

in any other case, particulars of—

3.1.167K.1.e.i

the legal form of the body corporate or firm and the law by which it is
governed, and

3.1.167K.1.e.ii

if applicable, the register in which it is entered (including details of the
state) and its registration number in that register.

3.1.167K.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this section so as to change
the required information about a director (or proposed director) of a
description mentioned in subsection  (1) .

3.1.167K.3

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

############ Directors: offence of failure to notify of changes

3.1.167L

3.1.167L.1

If a company fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply with section  167G ,
167H  or  167I , an offence is committed by—

3.1.167L.1.a

the company, and

3.1.167L.1.b

every officer of the company who is in default.

3.1.167L.2

For this purpose a shadow director is treated as an officer of the company.

3.1.167L.3

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction—

3.1.167L.3.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

3.1.167L.3.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine not
exceeding one-tenth of level 5 on the standard scale.

3.2

The provision that may be made under section 220 (1)  in connection with the
coming into force of this paragraph includes—

3.2.a

provision requiring a company to deliver to the registrar, at the same time as
a confirmation statement, a statement, in respect of any individual who became
a director of the company (otherwise than on its incorporation) before the
coming into force of this paragraph, confirming that the individual’s identity
is verified (within the meaning of section 1110A of the Companies Act 2006),
and

3.2.b

provision for section 853A(1)(b)(i) of the Companies Act 2006 (as substituted
by section 59 of this Act) to have effect as if it included a reference to the
duty imposed by virtue of paragraph  (a) .

3.3

In sub-paragraph  (2) —

“ confirmation statement ” has the meaning given by section 853A of the
Companies Act 2006; “ the registrar ” has the same meaning as in the Companies
Acts (see section 1060 of the Companies Act 2006).

##### Register of secretaries

4

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

5

Omit sections 274A to 279F (register of secretaries etc) (including the italic
heading before section 279A).

6

Before section 280 insert—

######### Notification of information about secretaries

########## Duty to notify registrar of change in secretary or joint secretary

6.279G

6.279G.1

A company must give notice to the registrar if a person—

6.279G.1.a

becomes the secretary or one of the joint secretaries of the company, or

6.279G.1.b

ceases to be the secretary or one of the joint secretaries of the company.

6.279G.2

The notice must specify the date on which the person became or ceased to be
the secretary or one of the joint secretaries of the company.

6.279G.3

A notice under subsection  (1)(a)  must contain—

6.279G.3.a

a statement of the required information about the secretary or joint secretary
(see sections  279J  and  279K ), and

6.279G.3.b

a statement by the company that the person has consented to act in that
capacity.

6.279G.4

Subsection  (1)(a)  does not require a company, on its incorporation, to give
notice in relation to a person named as the proposed secretary or one of the
proposed joint secretaries of the company in the statement under section 12.

6.279G.5

A notice under this section must be given within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the person becomes or ceases to be the
secretary or a joint secretary.

########## Duty to notify registrar of changes of information

6.279H

6.279H.1

A company must give notice to the registrar of any change in the required
information about the secretary or one of the joint secretaries of the company
(see sections  279J  and  279K ).

6.279H.2

The notice must specify the date on which the change occurred.

6.279H.3

A notice under this section must be given within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the change occurs.

########## Notification of changes occurring before company’s incorporation

6.279I

6.279I.1

A company must give notice to the registrar if—

6.279I.1.a

a person named in the statement under section 12 as the proposed secretary of
the company did not become the secretary on its incorporation, or

6.279I.1.b

a person named in the statement under section 12 as one of the proposed joint
secretaries of the company become did not become one of the joint secretaries
on its incorporation.

6.279I.2

A company must give notice to the registrar of any change in the required
information about a proposed secretary, or one of the proposed joint
secretaries, that occurred—

6.279I.2.a

after the application for the company’s registration under section 9 was
delivered to the registrar, but

6.279I.2.b

before the company was incorporated.

6.279I.3

But a company is not required to give notice under subsection  (2)  in respect
of a person if it gives notice under subsection  (1)  in respect of the
person.

6.279I.4

A notice under subsection  (2)  must specify the date on which the change
occurred.

6.279I.5

A notice under this section must be given within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the company was incorporated.

########## Required information about a secretary etc: individuals

6.279J

6.279J.1

The required information about a secretary or joint secretary (or proposed
secretary or joint secretary) who is an individual is—

6.279J.1.a

name;

6.279J.1.b

any relevant former names;

6.279J.1.c

a service address (which may be stated as “The company’s registered office”).

6.279J.2

In subsection  (1)(b)  “ relevant former name ” means any former name other
than—

6.279J.2.a

in the case of a peer, or an individual normally known by a British title, the
name by which the individual was known previous to the adoption of or
succession to the title, or

6.279J.2.b

in the case of any person—

6.279J.2.b.i

a former name which was changed or disused before the person attained the age
of 16 years,

6.279J.2.b.ii

a former name which has been changed or disused for 20 years or more, or

6.279J.2.b.iii

a former name which the registrar is required to refrain from making available
for public inspection or from disclosing (or both) by virtue of regulations
under section  1088 (1)(a)  or  (b) .

6.279J.3

In this section—

“ former name ” means a name by which the individual was formerly known for
business purposes; “ name ” means the individual’s forename and surname.

6.279J.4

Where a secretary or joint secretary (or proposed secretary or joint
secretary) is a peer or an individual usually known by a title, any
requirement of this Act to provide the individual’s name because it forms part
of the required information may be satisfied by providing that title instead
of the individual’s forename and surname.

6.279J.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

6.279J.5.a

amend this section so as to change the required information about a secretary
or joint secretary (or proposed secretary or joint secretary) who is an
individual;

6.279J.5.b

repeal subsection  (4) .

6.279J.6

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

########## Required information about a secretary etc: corporate secretaries and firms

6.279K

6.279K.1

The required information about a secretary or joint secretary (or proposed
secretary or joint secretary) that is a body corporate, or a firm that is a
legal person under the law by which it is governed, is—

6.279K.1.a

corporate or firm name;

6.279K.1.b

principal office;

6.279K.1.c

a service address (which may be stated as “The company’s registered office”);

6.279K.1.d

in the case of a limited company that is a UK-registered company, the
registered number;

6.279K.1.e

in any other case, particulars of—

6.279K.1.e.i

the legal form of the body corporate or firm and the law by which it is
governed, and

6.279K.1.e.ii

if applicable, the register in which it is entered (including details of the
state) and its registration number in that register.

6.279K.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this section so as to change
the required information about a secretary or joint secretary (or proposed
secretary or joint secretary) of a description mentioned in subsection  (1) .

6.279K.3

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

########## Firms all of whose partners are joint secretaries

6.279L

6.279L.1

This section applies where—

6.279L.1.a

all the members in a firm are joint secretaries (or proposed joint
secretaries) of a company, and

6.279L.1.b

the firm is not a legal person under the law by which it is governed.

6.279L.2

Any requirement imposed by this Act to provide the required information about
the members as joint secretaries (or proposed joint secretaries) may instead
be satisfied by providing the information that would be required if the firm
were a legal person and the firm had been appointed as secretary.

########## Secretary or joint secretary: offence of failure to notify of changes

6.279M

6.279M.1

If a company fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply with section  279G ,
279H  or  279I , an offence is committed by—

6.279M.1.a

the company, and

6.279M.1.b

every officer of the company who is in default.

6.279M.2

For this purpose a shadow director is treated as an officer of the company.

6.279M.3

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction—

6.279M.3.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

6.279M.3.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale and, for continued contravention, a daily default fine not
exceeding one-tenth of level 5 on the standard scale.

Person acting in dual capacity

.

##### Register of people with significant control

7

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

8

In section 790A (overview of Part)—

8.a

in paragraph (b), for “keep the register required by Chapter 3” substitute
“notify the registrar of the information in accordance with Chapter 2A” ;

8.b

for paragraphs (c) and (d) substitute—

8.b.c

Chapter 2A requires companies to notify the registrar of information relating
to persons with significant control;

.

9

In section 790C (key terms), omit subsection (10).

10

After section 790C insert—

######### References to “confirmation” etc of information

10.790CA

For the purposes of this Part a company has had confirmation of—

10.790CA.a

a person’s status as a registrable person or a registrable relevant legal
entity in relation to the company,

10.790CA.b

the required particulars of a person (see section 790K), or

10.790CA.c

any other information about a person,

if the person has supplied that information to the company whether or not in
pursuance of any duty imposed by this Part (and references to a company
obtaining confirmation of information are to be read accordingly).

11

For sections 790D and 790E substitute—

######### Duty to find out about persons with significant control

11.790CB

A company to which this Part applies must take reasonable steps to find out if
there is anyone who is a registrable person or a registrable relevant legal
entity in relation to the company and, if so, to identify them.

######### Company’s duty to give notices to persons with significant control

11.790D

11.790D.1

A company to which this Part applies must give a notice to a person under this
section if—

11.790D.1.a

the company knows or has cause to believe that the person is a registrable
person or a registrable relevant legal entity in relation to the company, but

11.790D.1.b

the company has not had confirmation of the person’s status as a registrable
person or registrable relevant legal entity or has not had confirmation of all
of the required particulars of the person (see section 790K).

11.790D.2

The notice must require the person—

11.790D.2.a

to inform the company whether the person is a registrable person or a
registrable relevant legal entity in relation to the company, and

11.790D.2.b

if they are, to give the company all of the required particulars of the person
(see section 790K).

11.790D.3

The notice must require the person to whom it is given to comply with the
notice by no later than the end of the period of one month beginning with the
day on which it is given.

11.790D.4

The company must give the notice—

11.790D.4.a

as soon as reasonably practicable after the company becomes subject to the
duty to give a notice under this section, and

11.790D.4.b

in any event before the end of the period of 14 days beginning with the day on
which the company becomes so subject.

11.790D.5

A company is not required to give a notice under this section to a person if—

11.790D.5.a

the application for the registration of the company contained a statement of
initial significant control naming the person as someone who would, on the
company’s incorporation, become a registrable person or a registrable relevant
legal entity in relation to the company, and

11.790D.5.b

the company has no cause to believe that at any time since its incorporation
the person has ceased to be a registrable person or a registrable relevant
legal entity in relation to the company.

11.790D.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations make further provision about the
giving of notices under this section, including provision about their form and
content and the manner in which they must be given.

11.790D.7

Regulations under subsection  (6)  are subject to negative resolution
procedure.

######### Obtaining information from third parties

11.790DA

11.790DA.1

A company to which this Part applies may give a notice to a person under this
section if it knows or has cause to believe that the person—

11.790DA.1.a

knows the identity of someone who falls within subsection  (2) , or

11.790DA.1.b

knows the identity of someone likely to have that knowledge.

11.790DA.2

The persons who fall within this subsection are—

11.790DA.2.a

a registrable person in relation to the company;

11.790DA.2.b

a relevant legal entity in relation to the company;

11.790DA.2.c

an entity which would be a relevant legal entity in relation to the company
but for the fact that section 790C(6)(b) does not apply in respect of it.

11.790DA.3

A company must give a notice under subsection  (1)  to a person (“a third
party”) if the company—

11.790DA.3.a

knows or has cause to believe that a person is a registrable person or a
registrable relevant legal entity in relation to the company (“a suspected
PSC”),

11.790DA.3.b

is under a duty to give the suspected PSC a notice under section  790D  but
does not have the information that it needs in order to contact them, and

11.790DA.3.c

knows or has cause to believe that the third party—

11.790DA.3.c.i

knows the identity of the suspected PSC, or

11.790DA.3.c.ii

knows the identity of someone likely to have that knowledge.

11.790DA.4

A notice under subsection  (1)  must require the person to whom it is given (“
the recipient ”)—

11.790DA.4.a

to inform the company whether the recipient knows the identity of any person
who—

11.790DA.4.a.i

falls within subsection  (2) , or

11.790DA.4.a.ii

is likely to know the identity of anyone who falls within subsection  (2) ,
and

11.790DA.4.b

if the recipient does, to give the company any information within the
recipient’s knowledge that would allow the company to contact each such
person.

11.790DA.5

The notice must require the person to whom it is given to comply with the
notice by no later than the end of the period of one month beginning with the
day on which it is given.

11.790DA.6

A person to whom a notice under subsection  (1)  is given is not required by
that notice to disclose any information in respect of which a claim to legal
professional privilege (in Scotland, to confidentiality of communications)
could be maintained in legal proceedings.

11.790DA.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations make further provision about the
giving of notices under this section, including provision about their form and
content and the manner in which they must be given.

11.790DA.8

Regulations under subsection  (7)  are subject to negative resolution
procedure.

11.790DA.9

In this section a reference to knowing the identity of a person includes
knowing information from which that person can be identified.

######### Company’s duty to find out about changes in PSC information

11.790E

11.790E.1

This section applies if a company—

11.790E.1.a

knows or has cause to believe that there has been a change in the required
particulars of a registrable person or a registrable relevant legal entity in
relation to the company (see section 790K), but

11.790E.1.b

has not had confirmation that the change has occurred or has not had
confirmation of all of the information that the company would need to include
in a notice of the change under section  790LD (1) or  790LE (1).

11.790E.2

The company must give the person a notice requiring the person—

11.790E.2.a

to inform the company whether the change has occurred, and

11.790E.2.b

if it has, to give the company the information that the company would need to
include in a notice of the change under section  790LD (1) or  790LE (1).

11.790E.3

The notice must require the person to whom it is given to comply with the
notice by no later than the end of the period of one month beginning with the
day on which it is given.

11.790E.4

The company must give the notice—

11.790E.4.a

as soon as reasonably practicable after the company becomes subject to the
duty to give a notice under subsection (2), and

11.790E.4.b

in any event before the end of the period of 14 days beginning with the day on
which the company becomes so subject.

11.790E.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations make further provision about the
giving of notices under this section, including provision about their form and
content and the manner in which they must be given.

11.790E.6

Regulations under subsection  (5)  are subject to negative resolution
procedure.

######### Company’s duty to find out about persons ceasing to be PSCs

11.790EA

11.790EA.1

This section applies if a company —

11.790EA.1.a

knows or has cause to believe that a person has ceased to be a registrable
person or a registrable relevant legal entity in relation to the company, but

11.790EA.1.b

has not had confirmation that the person has ceased to be a registrable person
or a registrable relevant legal entity in relation to the company or has not
had confirmation of the date on which the person so ceased.

11.790EA.2

The company must give the person a notice requiring the person—

11.790EA.2.a

to inform the company whether the person has ceased to be a registrable person
or a registrable relevant legal entity in relation to the company, and

11.790EA.2.b

if the person has, to inform the company of the date on which the person so
ceased.

11.790EA.3

The notice must require the person to whom it is given to comply with the
notice by no later than the end of the period of one month beginning with the
day on which it is given.

11.790EA.4

The company must give the notice—

11.790EA.4.a

as soon as reasonably practicable after the company becomes subject to the
duty under subsection  (2) , and

11.790EA.4.b

in any event before the end of the period of 14 days beginning with the day on
which the company becomes so subject.

11.790EA.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations make further provision about the
giving of notices under this section, including provision about their form and
content and the manner in which they must be given.

11.790EA.6

Regulations under subsection  (5)  are subject to negative resolution
procedure.

######### Company’s duty to notify failure to comply with notices

11.790EB

11.790EB.1

A company must notify the registrar if a person fails to comply with a notice
given by the company under section  790D ,  790DA ,  790E  or  790EA  within
the period specified in it.

11.790EB.2

The notice must be given within the period of 14 days beginning with the end
of the period specified in the notice under section  790D ,  790DA ,  790E  or
790EA .

######### Company’s duty to notify of late compliance with notices

11.790EC

11.790EC.1

A company must notify the registrar if a person who has failed to comply with
a notice given by the company under section  790D ,  790DA ,  790E  or  790EA
within the period specified in it subsequently complies.

11.790EC.2

The notice must be given within the period of 14 days beginning with the day
on which the person complied with the notice under section  790D ,  790DA ,
790E  or  790EA .

11

In section 790F (failure by company to comply with information duties), for
subsection (1) substitute—

11.1

If a company fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply with a duty under
section  790CB , 790D,  790DA (3) , 790E,  790EA ,  790EB  or  790EC  to take
steps or give a notice, an offence is committed by—

11.1.a

the company, and

11.1.b

every officer of the company who is in default.

12

For sections 790G and 790H substitute—

######### Duty to notify company on becoming PSC

12.790G

12.790G.1

This section applies to a person if—

12.790G.1.a

the person knows that they are a registrable person or a registrable relevant
legal entity in relation to a company,

12.790G.1.b

the material in the register that is available for public inspection does not
indicate the person’s status as a registrable person or registrable relevant
legal entity in relation to the company, and

12.790G.1.c

the person—

12.790G.1.c.i

has not informed the company of the person’s status as a registrable person or
registrable relevant legal entity in relation to the company, or

12.790G.1.c.ii

has not given the company all of the required particulars of the person (see
section 790K).

12.790G.2

The person must—

12.790G.2.a

inform the company of the person’s status as a registrable person or
registrable relevant legal entity in relation to the company, and

12.790G.2.b

give the company the required particulars (see section 790K).

12.790G.3

The person must comply with the duty in subsection  (2)  before the end of the
period of one month beginning with the day on which the conditions in
subsection (1) are met.

######### Duty to notify company of changes in PSC information

12.790H

12.790H.1

This section applies to a person if—

12.790H.1.a

the person knows that they are a registrable person or a registrable relevant
legal entity in relation to a company,

12.790H.1.b

there has been a change in the required particulars of the person (see section
790K) and the person knows that to be the case, and

12.790H.1.c

the person has not informed the company of the change or has not given the
company all of the information that the company would need to include in a
notice of the change under section  790LD (1) or  790LE (1).

12.790H.2

The person must—

12.790H.2.a

inform the company of the change, and

12.790H.2.b

give the company the information that the company would need to include in a
notice of the change under section  790LD (1) or  790LE (1) .

12.790H.3

The person must comply with the duty in subsection (2) before the end of the
period of one month beginning with the day on which the conditions in
subsection (1) are met.

######### Duty to notify company of ceasing to be a PSC

12.790HA

12.790HA.1

This section applies to a person if—

12.790HA.1.a

the person knows that they have ceased to be a registrable person or a
registrable relevant legal entity in relation to a company,

12.790HA.1.b

the material in the register that is available for public inspection does not
indicate the person as having ceased to be a registrable person or a
registrable relevant legal entity in relation to a company, and

12.790HA.1.c

the person has not informed the company of having ceased to be a registrable
person or a registrable relevant legal entity in relation to the company or
has not informed the company of the date on which the person so ceased.

12.790HA.2

The person must inform the company—

12.790HA.2.a

that the person has ceased to be a registrable person or a registrable
relevant legal entity in relation to the company, and

12.790HA.2.b

of the date on which the person so ceased.

12.790HA.3

The person must comply with the duty in subsection  (2)  before the end of the
period of one month beginning with the day on which the conditions in
subsection  (1)  are met.

13

In section 790I (enforcement of disclosure requirements), for the words from
“a notice” to the end substitute

—

13.a

a notice under section  790D ,  790DA ,  790E  or  790EA , or

13.b

a duty under section  790G ,  790H  or  790HA .

14

After section 790I insert—

######### Power to impose further duties

########## Power to impose further duties involving nominee shareholders

14.790IA

14.790IA.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make further provision for the
purpose of enabling a company to which this Part applies to find out about
anyone who has become or ceased to be a person who is—

14.790IA.1.a

a registrable person in relation to the company by virtue of shares being held
by a nominee, or

14.790IA.1.b

a registrable relevant legal entity in relation to the company by virtue of
shares being held by a nominee.

14.790IA.2

The regulations may, in particular—

14.790IA.2.a

impose obligations on a company with a view to obtaining—

14.790IA.2.a.i

information about whether a person has become or ceased to be a nominee
shareholder;

14.790IA.2.a.ii

if they have, information about: (A) the shareholding; (B) the nominee; (C)
the person for whom the nominee holds or held the shares;

14.790IA.2.a.iii

any other information required by the regulations;

14.790IA.2.b

impose obligations on others (including nominees or former nominees) with a
view to providing the company with—

14.790IA.2.b.i

information of a kind described in paragraph (a)(i) or (ii);

14.790IA.2.b.ii

any other information required by the regulations.

14.790IA.3

The regulations may, in particular, make provision similar or corresponding to
any of the preceding provisions of this Chapter.

14.790IA.4

The provision that may be made by regulations under subsection (1) includes
provision amending this Chapter.

14.790IA.5

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

15

In section 790J (power to make exemptions)—

15.a

in subsection (2)(a), for “790D(2) or 790E” substitute  “ 790D ,  790E  or
790EA ” ;

15.b

in subsection (2)(c), for “790D(5)” substitute  “ 790DA ” ;

15.c

in subsection (2)(d), for “and 790H” substitute  “, 790H and  790HA ” ;

15.d

in subsection (2)(e) for “section 790M” substitute  “any of sections 12A,
790LA ,  790LC ,  790LD ,  790LE ,  790LF ,  790LG ,  790LH ” .”

16

16.1

Section 790K (required particulars) is amended as follows.

16.2

In subsection (1), omit paragraph (i) and the “and” before it.

16.3

In subsection (2), after paragraph (b) insert—

16.3.ba

a service address,

.

16.4

In subsection (3)—

16.4.a

in paragraph (b), omit “registered or”;

16.4.b

after paragraph (b) insert—

16.4.b.ba

a service address,

.

16.5

For subsection (4) substitute—

16.5.4

In this section “ name ”, in relation to an individual, means the individual’s
forename and surname.

16.5.4A

Where an individual is a peer or an individual usually known by a title, any
requirement imposed by this Act to provide the individual’s name because it
forms part of the required particulars under this section may be satisfied by
providing that title instead of the individual’s forename and surname.

17

In section 790L (required particulars: power to amend), for subsection (1)
substitute—

17.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

17.1.a

amend section 790K so as to change the “ required particulars ” in relation
to—

17.1.a.i

an individual who is a registrable person;

17.1.a.ii

a person in relation to which this Part has effect by virtue of section
790C(12) as if the person were an individual;

17.1.a.iii

a registrable relevant legal entity;

17.1.b

repeal section 790K (4A) .

18

After section 790L insert—

######### Duty to notify registrar of persons with significant control and ID verification

########## Duty to notify registrar of persons with significant control

########### Duty to notify registrar of confirmed persons with significant control

18.790LA

18.790LA.1

A company must give a notice to the registrar if it has had confirmation of—

18.790LA.1.a

a person’s status as a registrable person or a registrable relevant legal
entity in relation to the company, and

18.790LA.1.b

the required particulars of the person (see section 790K).

18.790LA.2

A notice under subsection (1) must contain a statement of the required
particulars.

18.790LA.3

A notice under subsection (1) must be given within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the company had confirmation as mentioned in
that subsection.

18.790LA.4

A company is not required to give a notice under this section in relation to a
person if—

18.790LA.4.a

the application for the registration of the company contained a statement of
initial significant control naming the person as someone who would, on the
company’s incorporation, become a registrable person or a registrable relevant
legal entity in relation to the company, and

18.790LA.4.b

the company has no cause to believe that at any time since its incorporation
the person has ceased to be a registrable person or a registrable relevant
legal entity in relation to the company.

18.790LA.5

Nothing in section 126 (notice of trusts not receivable by registrar) affects
the duty to give a notice under this section (or the receipt of that notice by
the registrar).

########### Option to provide ID verification information in notice of change

18.790LB

18.790LB.1

A notice under section  790LA (1)  that relates to a registrable person may
include a statement that the person’s identity is verified (see section
1110A).

18.790LB.2

A notice under section  790LA (1)  that relates to a registrable relevant
legal entity may include a statement that—

18.790LB.2.a

specifies the name of one of its relevant officers (within the meaning given
by section  790LO (6) ) who is an individual and whose identity is verified,
and

18.790LB.2.b

confirms that the individual’s identity is verified.

18.790LB.3

If the notice includes a statement under subsection  (2) , it must be
accompanied by a statement by the individual confirming that the individual is
a relevant officer of the registrable relevant legal entity.

18.790LB.4

To find out what happens if the option in subsection  (1)  or  (2)  is not
exercised, see sections  790LM  and  790LO .

18.790LB.5

In subsection  (1)  “ registrable person ” does not include a person mentioned
in section 790C(12)(a) to (d).

########### Duty to notify registrar of unconfirmed persons with significant control

18.790LC

18.790LC.1

A company must give a notice to the registrar if—

18.790LC.1.a

it knows or has cause to believe that a person has become a registrable person
or a registrable relevant legal entity in relation to the company, but

18.790LC.1.b

it has not yet had confirmation as mentioned in section  790LA (1).

18.790LC.2

The notice must state that fact.

18.790LC.3

A notice under subsection (1) must be given within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the company first knows or has cause to
believe that the person has become a registrable person or a registrable
relevant legal entity in relation to the company.

18.790LC.4

Nothing in this section requires a company, on its incorporation, to give a
notice in relation to a person included in the statement of initial
significant control under section 12A.

########## Duty to notify registrar of changes in required particulars

########### Duties to notify of changes in required particulars

18.790LD

18.790LD.1

A company must give a notice to the registrar if it—

18.790LD.1.a

has had confirmation that there has been a change in the required particulars
of a registrable person, or a registrable relevant legal entity, in relation
to the company (see section 790K), and

18.790LD.1.b

has had confirmation of how the required particulars have changed and the date
on which they changed.

18.790LD.2

The notice must state—

18.790LD.2.a

the change in the required particulars, and

18.790LD.2.b

the date on which the change occurred.

18.790LD.3

A notice under subsection (1) must be given within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the company had confirmation as mentioned in
that subsection.

18.790LD.4

Nothing in section 126 (notice of trusts not receivable by registrar) affects
the duty to give a notice under this section (or the receipt of that notice by
the registrar).

########### Duty to notify of pre-incorporation changes in required particulars

18.790LE

18.790LE.1

A company must give a notice to the registrar if it—

18.790LE.1.a

has had confirmation that there was a pre-incorporation change in the required
particulars of a proposed PSC (see section 790K), and

18.790LE.1.b

has had confirmation of how the required particulars have changed and the date
on which they changed.

18.790LE.2

But a company is not required to give a notice under subsection (1) in respect
of a person if it has given a notice under section  790LG  in respect of the
person.

18.790LE.3

A notice under subsection (1) must state—

18.790LE.3.a

the change in the required particulars, and

18.790LE.3.b

the date on which the change occurred.

18.790LE.4

A notice under subsection (1) must be given within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the company had confirmation as mentioned in
that subsection.

18.790LE.5

In this section—

“ pre-incorporation change ” means a change that occurred— after the
application for the registration of the company was delivered to the
registrar, but before the company was incorporated; “ proposed PSC ”, in
relation to a company, means a person who was named in a statement under
section 12A(1)(a) as a person who would, on the company’s incorporation,
become a registrable person or registrable relevant legal entity in relation
to the company.

########## Duty to notify registrar of person ceasing to be person with significant control etc

########### Duty to notify registrar when person ceases to have significant control

18.790LF

18.790LF.1

A company must give a notice to the registrar if it—

18.790LF.1.a

has had confirmation that a person has ceased to be a registrable person or a
registrable relevant legal entity in relation to it, and

18.790LF.1.b

has had confirmation of the date on which the person so ceased.

18.790LF.2

A notice under subsection (1) must state—

18.790LF.2.a

the person’s name and service address, and

18.790LF.2.b

the date on which the person ceased to be a registrable person or a
registrable relevant legal entity in relation to the company.

18.790LF.3

A notice under subsection (1) must be given within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the company had confirmation as mentioned in
that subsection.

########### Notification of someone not becoming person with significant control on incorporation

18.790LG

18.790LG.1

A company must give a notice to the registrar if it knows that a person named
in the statement under section 12A (1)(a)  as a person who would, on the
company’s incorporation, become a registrable person or a registrable relevant
legal entity did not so become.

18.790LG.2

A notice under subsection  (1)  must be given within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the company has the knowledge mentioned there.

########### Duty to notify registrar if company ceases to have persons with significant control

18.790LH

18.790LH.1

A company must give a notice to the registrar if it knows or has cause to
believe that—

18.790LH.1.a

there has at some time been a person who is a registrable person or
registrable relevant legal entity in relation to the company, and

18.790LH.1.b

there has ceased to be anyone who is a registrable person or registrable
relevant legal entity in relation to the company.

18.790LH.2

A notice under subsection (1) must —

18.790LH.2.a

state that the company has that knowledge or cause to believe, and

18.790LH.2.b

specify the date on which the company first had that knowledge or cause to
believe.

18.790LH.3

A notice under subsection (1) must be given within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the company first had the knowledge or cause
to believe mentioned in that subsection.

########### Power to create further duties to notify information

18.790LI

18.790LI.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations impose further duties on a company
to deliver information to the registrar about—

18.790LI.1.a

registrable persons, or registrable relevant legal entities, in relation to
the company (including information about whether it has any);

18.790LI.1.b

compliance with Chapter 2 by the company or any person to whom the company has
given a notice under that Chapter (including provision requiring a company to
provide the registrar with a copy of any such notice, whether on request or
otherwise).

18.790LI.2

The provision that may be made by regulations under subsection (1) includes
provision amending this Part.

18.790LI.3

The consequential provision that may be made by regulations under subsection
(1) by virtue of section 1292(1) also includes provision amending any other
provision of this Act.

18.790LI.4

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

########### Persons with significant control: offence of failure to notify

18.790LJ

18.790LJ.1

If a company fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply with section  790LA ,
790LC ,  790LD ,  790LE ,  790LF ,  790LG  or  790LH , or regulations under
section  790LI , an offence is committed by—

18.790LJ.1.a

the company, and

18.790LJ.1.b

every officer of the company who is in default.

18.790LJ.2

For this purpose a shadow director is treated as an officer of the company.

18.790LJ.3

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale and, for
continued contravention, a daily default fine not exceeding one-tenth of level
3 on the standard scale.

########### Power of court to order company to remedy defaults or delay

18.790LK

18.790LK.1

Where a company makes default in complying with section  790LA ,  790LC ,
790LD ,  790LE ,  790LF ,  790LG  or  790LH , or regulations under section
790LI , an application may be made to the court for an order requiring the
company to deliver to the registrar the information (or statements) necessary
to rectify the position.

18.790LK.2

The application may be made by—

18.790LK.2.a

any person aggrieved by the default,

18.790LK.2.b

any member of the company, or

18.790LK.2.c

any person who is a registrable person or a registrable relevant legal entity
in relation to the company.

18.790LK.3

On an application under subsection  (1)  the court may either refuse the
application or may make the order and order the company to pay any damages
sustained by any party aggrieved.

18.790LK.4

On an application under subsection  (1)  the court may decide—

18.790LK.4.a

any question as to whether the name of any person who is a party to the
application should or should not be included in or omitted from information
delivered to the registrar under this Chapter about persons who are a
registrable person or a registrable relevant legal entity in relation to the
company, and

18.790LK.4.b

any question necessary or expedient to be decided for rectifying the position.

18.790LK.5

Nothing in this section affects a person’s rights under section 1094 or 1096
(rectification of register).

########### Information as to whether information has been delivered

18.790LL

18.790LL.1

A person may request a company to tell the person whether all of the
information that it is required to deliver to the registrar under this Chapter
has been delivered.

18.790LL.2

The company must comply with the request within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the request is made.

18.790LL.3

If the company fails, without reasonable excuse, to do so, an offence is
committed by—

18.790LL.3.a

the company, and

18.790LL.3.b

every officer of the company who is in default.

18.790LL.4

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

18.790LL.5

Subsection  (1)  does not apply in relation to information if the company is
aware that, by virtue of regulations under section  1088 , the registrar is
required to refrain from making that information available for public
inspection.

19

Omit Chapters 3 and 4 of Part 21A (company registers of people with
significant control etc).

20

20.1

Schedule 1B (enforcement of disclosure requirements in relation to persons
with significant control) is amended as follows.

20.2

In each of the following provisions, for “or 790E” substitute  “,  790DA ,
790E or  790EA ” —

20.2.a

paragraph 1(1)(a) and (3)(a);

20.2.b

paragraph 8(3)(a);

20.2.c

paragraph 11(a) and (b);

20.2.d

paragraph 12(2)(b).

20.3

For paragraphs 13 and 14 substitute—

########### Offence of failing to comply with notices

20.3.13

20.3.13.1

A person to whom a notice under section  790D ,  790DA ,  790E  or  790EA  is
addressed commits an offence if the person fails, without reasonable excuse,
to comply with the notice.

20.3.13.2

Where the person is a legal entity, the offence is also committed by every
officer of the entity who is in default.

20.3.13.3

A person guilty of an offence under this paragraph is liable—

20.3.13.3.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both);

20.3.13.3.b

on summary conviction—

20.3.13.3.b.i

in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the general
limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

20.3.13.3.b.ii

in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or a fine not
exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

20.3.13.3.b.iii

in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a
fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both).

########### Offence of failing to provide information

20.3.14

20.3.14.1

A person commits an offence if the person fails, without reasonable excuse, to
comply with a duty under section  790G ,  790H  or  790HA .

20.3.14.2

Where the person is a legal entity, the offence is also committed by every
officer of the entity who is in default.

20.3.14.3

A person guilty of an offence under this paragraph is liable—

20.3.14.3.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both);

20.3.14.3.b

on summary conviction—

20.3.14.3.b.i

in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the general
limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

20.3.14.3.b.ii

in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or a fine not
exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

20.3.14.3.b.iii

in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a
fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both).

########### False statements: basic offence

20.3.14A

20.3.14A.1

A person commits an offence if, in purported compliance with a notice under
section  790D ,  790DA ,  790E  or  790EA  or in purported compliance with a
duty imposed by section  790G ,  790H  or  790HA , and without reasonable
excuse, the person makes a statement that is misleading, false or deceptive in
a material particular.

20.3.14A.2

Where the person is a legal entity, the offence is also committed by every
officer of the entity who is in default.

20.3.14A.3

A person guilty of an offence under this paragraph is liable on summary
conviction—

20.3.14A.3.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

20.3.14A.3.b

in Scotland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale;

20.3.14A.3.c

in Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale.

########### False statements: aggravated offence

20.3.14B

20.3.14B.1

A person commits an offence if, in purported compliance with a notice under
section  790D ,  790DA ,  790E  or  790EA  or in purported compliance with a
duty imposed by section  790G ,  790H  or  790HA , the person makes a
statement that the person knows is misleading, false or deceptive in a
material particular.

20.3.14B.2

Where the person is a legal entity, the offence is also committed by every
officer of the entity who is in default.

20.3.14B.3

A person guilty of an offence under this paragraph is liable—

20.3.14B.3.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both);

20.3.14B.3.b

on summary conviction—

20.3.14B.3.b.i

in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the general
limit in a magistrates’ court or to a fine (or both);

20.3.14B.3.b.ii

in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding twelve months or to a
fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

20.3.14B.3.b.iii

in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to
a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both).

##### Consequential amendments

21

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

22

22.1

Section 12 (statement of proposed officers) is amended as follows.

22.2

In subsection (1), for “particulars of” substitute  “information about” .

22.3

For subsection (2) substitute—

22.3.2

For the required information—

22.3.2.a

in relation to proposed directors, see sections  167J  and  167K ;

22.3.2.b

in relation to proposed secretaries or joint secretaries, see sections  279J
and  279K .

23

In section 12A (statement of initial significant control), for subsection (1)
substitute—

23.1

The statement of initial significant control required to be delivered to the
registrar must—

23.1.a

state whether, on incorporation, there will be anyone who is either a
registrable person or a registrable relevant legal entity in relation to the
company, and

23.1.b

include the required particulars of any such person.

24

24.1

Section 95 (statement of proposed secretary) is amended as follows.

24.2

In subsection (1), for “particulars of” substitute  “information about” .

24.3

For subsection (2) substitute—

24.3.2

For the required information in relation to proposed secretaries or joint
secretaries, see sections  279J  and  279K .

25

25.1

Section 156 (direction requiring company to make appointment of director) is
amended as follows.

25.2

In subsections (4)(b) and (5), for “section 167” substitute  “section  167G ”
.

25.3

After subsection (5) insert—

25.3.5A

Nothing in subsection (4) or (5) affects the duty imposed by section  167G  to
give notice within the period mentioned in subsection  (6)  of that section.

26

In section 156B (power to provide for exceptions from requirement that each
director to be a natural person), omit subsection (5).

27

In section 156C (existing director who is not a natural person), for
subsections (3) to (5) substitute—

27.3

If it appears to the registrar that, as a result of subsection (2), a company
should have given notice under section  167G  of a person having ceased to be
a director but has failed to do so, the registrar must include a note in the
register recording that fact.

28

In section 853B (duties to notify a relevant event)—

28.a

for paragraph (c) substitute—

28.a.c

the duty to give notice of a change as mentioned in section  167G  or  167H
(changes in directors or required information about a director);

;

28.b

omit paragraph (d);

28.c

for paragraph (e) substitute—

28.c.e

the duty to give notice of a change as mentioned in section  279G  or  279H
(change in secretary or joint secretaries or in required information about a
secretary or joint secretary);

;

28.d

omit paragraphs (f) and (fa);

28.e

for paragraph (g) substitute—

28.e.g

the duty to deliver anything as mentioned in section  790LA ,  790LC ,  790LD
,  790LE ,  790LF ,  790LG  or  790LH  (information about persons with
significant control);

.

29

In section 1079B (duty to notify directors), in subsections (1)(b) and (2)(b),
for “section 167 or 167D” substitute  “section  167G ” .

30

In section 1136 (regulations about where certain company records to be kept
available for inspection), in subsection (2), omit—

section 162 (register of directors);

section 275 (register of secretaries);

section 790M (register of people with significant control over a company);

section 790Z (historic PSC register);

.

31

In paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 (communications by a company)—

31.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(d), for “the company’s register of directors” substitute
“the register” ;

31.b

omit sub-paragraph (1A).

32

In Schedule 8 (index of defined expressions), omit the entries relating to—

“the central register”; “PSC register”; “register of directors”; “register of
directors’ residential addresses”; “register of secretaries”.

Disclosure of information: consequential amendments

Section 94

##### Companies Act 2006

1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

2

In section 242 (protected information: restriction on disclosure by
registrar), in subsection (3)—

2.a

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (a);

2.b

at the end of paragraph (b) insert

, or

2.b.c

as permitted by section  1110F  (general powers of disclosure by the
registrar).

3

3.1

Section 243 (permitted disclosure by the registrar) is amended as follows.

3.2

For subsection (2) substitute—

3.2.2

The registrar may disclose protected information to a credit reference agency.

3.3

In subsection (7), omit—

3.3.a

the definition of “public authority”;

3.3.b

the “and” before that definition.

##### Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022

4

The Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022 is amended as
follows.

5

In section 40 (sharing of information by HMRC), in subsection (1), omit “or
the registrar”.

6

In section 44 (interpretation), in subsection (1), at the end of the
definition of “document”, insert  “and references to delivering a document are
to be read in accordance with section 1114(1)(b) of the Companies Act 2006” .

Required information

Section 110

After section  38  of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 (inserted by section
151 of this Act) insert the following as a Schedule to that Act— SCHEDULE
Required information PART 1 Introduction 1 In this Schedule— a Part  2  sets
out the required information about a partner (or proposed partner) for the
purposes of sections 8A,  8R ,  8S  and  8T , b Part  3  sets out the required
information about a registered officer (or proposed registered officer) for
the purposes of sections 8A,  8L ,  8M  and  8R , and c Part  4  sets out the
required information about a named contact (or proposed named contact) for the
purposes of sections 8A,  8L ,  8N ,  8O  and  8R . PART 2 Partners
Individuals 2 1 Where a partner (or proposed partner) is an individual, the
required information about the partner is— a name, date of birth and
nationality; b any relevant former names; c usual residential address; d the
part of the United Kingdom in which the individual is usually resident or, if
the individual is usually resident in a country or state outside the United
Kingdom, that country or state; e in the case of a general partner, a service
address (which may be stated as “The limited partnership’s registered
office”). 2 In sub-paragraph  (1)(b)  “ relevant former name ” means any
former name other than— a in the case of a peer, or an individual normally
known by a British title, the name by which the individual was known previous
to the adoption of or succession to the title, or b in the case of any person,
a former name which— i was changed or disused before the person attained the
age of 16 years, or ii has been changed or disused for 20 years or more. 3 In
this paragraph— “ former name ” means a name by which the individual was
formerly known for business purposes; “ name ” means the individual’s forename
and surname. 4 Where a partner (or proposed partner) who is an individual is a
peer or an individual usually known by a title, any requirement imposed by
this Act to provide the individual’s name because it forms part of the
required information may be satisfied by providing that title instead of the
individual’s forename and surname. Legal entities 3 Where a partner (or
proposed partner) is a legal entity, the required information about the
partner is— a name; b principal office; c a service address (which may be
stated as “The limited partnership’s registered office”); d the legal form of
the entity and the law by which it is governed; e in the case of a general
partner, any register in which the general partner is entered (including
details of the state) and, if applicable, its registration number in that
register. PART 3 Registered officers 4 1 The required information about a
registered officer (or proposed registered officer) is— a name, date of birth
and nationality; b any relevant former names; c usual residential address; d
the part of the United Kingdom in which the individual is usually resident or,
if the individual is usually resident in a country or state outside the United
Kingdom, that country or state; e a service address (which may be stated as
“The limited partnership’s registered office”). 2 In sub-paragraph  (1)(b)  “
relevant former name ” has the meaning given by paragraph  2(2) . 3 In this
paragraph “former name” and “name” have the meanings given by paragraph  2(3)
. 4 Where a registered officer (or proposed registered officer) who is an
individual is a peer or an individual usually known by a title, any
requirement imposed by this Act to provide the individual’s name because it
forms part of the required information may be satisfied by providing that
title instead of the individual’s forename and surname. PART 4 Named contacts
5 1 The required information about a named contact (or proposed named contact)
is— a name; b usual residential address; c email address. 2 In this paragraph
“ name ” has the meaning given by paragraph  2(3) .

Limited partnerships: consequential amendments

Section 152

1

The Limited Partnerships Act 1907 is amended as follows.

2

Before section 1 (short title) insert—

Short title and interpretation

.

3

Before section 4 (definition and constitution of limited partnership) insert—

Definition and constitution of limited partnership

.

4

Before section 6 (modifications of general law in case of limited
partnerships) insert—

Application of other laws to limited partnerships

.

5

Before section 8 (duty to register and designate) insert—

Registration and designation

.

6

Before section 15 (the registrar) insert—

The registrar

.

Duty to deliver information about changes in beneficiaries

Section 163

1

The Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022 is amended as
follows.

2

2.1

Section 7 (updating duty) is amended as follows.

2.2

In subsection (1)(a) and (b), for “statement and information mentioned”
substitute  “statements and information mentioned” .

2.3

In subsection (3)—

2.3.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (a);

2.3.b

at the end of paragraph (b) insert

, and

2.3.b.c

the statement in row 1 of the table set out in subsection  (4A) , or the
statement and information listed in row 2 of that table.

2.4

In subsection (4)—

2.4.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (a);

2.4.b

at the end of paragraph (b) insert

, and

2.4.b.c

in the case where the information provided under subsection (1)(b) includes
information that a person who ceased to be a registrable beneficial owner was
a trustee, the statement in row 1 of the table set out in subsection  (4A) ,
or the statement and information listed in row 2 of that table.

2.5

After subsection (4) insert—

2.5.4A

This is the table referred to in subsections (3)(c) and (4)(c)—

Statement Information 1 A statement that the entity has no reasonable cause to
believe that anyone became or ceased to be a beneficiary under the trust at a
time during the update period when the trustee was a registrable beneficial
owner of the overseas entity. 2 A statement that the entity has reasonable
cause to believe that at least one person became or ceased to be a beneficiary
under the trust at a time during the update period when the trustee was a
registrable beneficial owner of the overseas entity. The information specified
in paragraph 8(1)(d) of Schedule 1 about each such person, or so much of that
information as the entity has been able to obtain. The date on which that
person became or ceased to be a beneficiary under the trust, if the entity has
been able to obtain that information.

2.6

For subsections (6) and (7) substitute—

2.6.6

Any statements required by subsection (1)(a) or (b) must relate to the state
of affairs as at the end of the update period.

2.6.7

Any information—

2.6.7.a

required by subsection (1)(a) or (b) as a result of a person having become or
ceased to be a beneficiary under a trust, or

2.6.7.b

required by subsection (1)(b) as a result of a person having become or ceased
to be a registrable beneficial owner of an overseas entity,

must relate to the time when the person so became or so ceased.

2.6.7A

Any other information required by subsection (1)(a) must relate to the state
of affairs as at the end of the update period.

3

3.1

Section 9 (application for removal) is amended as follows.

3.2

In subsection (1)(b) and (c), for “statement and information mentioned”
substitute  “statements and information mentioned” .

3.3

In subsection (3)—

3.3.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (a);

3.3.b

at the end of paragraph (b) insert

, and

3.3.b.c

the statement in row 1 of the table set out in subsection  (4A) , or the
statement and information listed in row 2 of that table.

3.4

In subsection (4)—

3.4.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (a);

3.4.b

at the end of paragraph (b) insert

, and

3.4.b.c

in the case where the information provided under subsection (1)(c) includes
information that a person who ceased to be a registrable beneficial owner was
a trustee, the statement in row 1 of the table set out in subsection  (4A) ,
or the statement and information listed in row 2 of that table.

3.5

After subsection (4) insert—

3.5.4A

This is the table referred to in subsections (3)(c) and (4)(c)—

Statement Information 1 A statement that the entity has no reasonable cause to
believe that anyone became or ceased to be a beneficiary under the trust at a
time during the relevant period when the trustee was a registrable beneficial
owner of the overseas entity. 2 A statement that the entity has reasonable
cause to believe that at least one person became or ceased to be a beneficiary
under the trust at a time during the relevant period when the trustee was a
registrable beneficial owner of the overseas entity. The information specified
in paragraph 8(1)(d) of Schedule 1 about each such person, or so much of that
information as the entity has been able to obtain. The date on which that
person became or ceased to be a beneficiary under the trust, if the entity has
been able to obtain that information.

3.6

In subsection (6), for “subsection (2)” substitute  “this section” .

3.7

For subsections (7) and (8) substitute—

3.7.7

Any statements required by subsection (1)(b) or (c) must relate to the state
of affairs as at the time of the application for removal.

3.7.8

Any information—

3.7.8.a

required by subsection (1)(b) or (c) as a result of a person having become or
ceased to be a beneficiary under a trust, or

3.7.8.b

required by subsection (1)(c) as a result of a person having become or ceased
to be a registrable beneficial owner of an overseas entity,

must relate to the time when the person so became or so ceased.

3.7.8A

Any other information required by subsection (1)(b) must relate to the state
of affairs as at the time of the application for removal.

4

For section 12 substitute—

######## Duty to take steps to obtain information

4.12

4.12.1

Before making an application for registration under section 4(1) an overseas
entity must take reasonable steps to obtain all of the information that it is
required to deliver to the registrar under that section if it is able to
obtain it.

4.12.2

Before complying with the updating duty under section 7 an overseas entity
must take reasonable steps to obtain all of the information that it is
required to deliver to the registrar under that section if it is able to
obtain it.

4.12.3

Before making an application for removal under section 9 an overseas entity
must take reasonable steps to obtain all of the information that it is
required to include in the application if it is able to obtain it.

4.12.4

The steps that an overseas entity must take by virtue of subsection  (1) ,
(2)  or  (3)  include giving a notice to any person that it knows, or has
reasonable cause to believe, is a registrable beneficial owner in relation to
the entity, requiring the person—

4.12.4.a

to state whether or not they are such a person, and

4.12.4.b

if they are, to provide or confirm information of the kind mentioned in
subsection  (1) ,  (2)  or  (3)  so far as relating to the person, or a trust
of which they are or were a trustee.

4.12.5

The steps that an overseas entity must take by virtue of subsection  (2)  or
(3)  also include giving a notice to any person that it knows, or has
reasonable cause to believe, has ceased to be a registrable beneficial owner
in relation to the entity during the update period (within the meaning of
section 7) or relevant period (within the meaning of section 9), requiring the
person—

4.12.5.a

to state whether or not they are such a person, and

4.12.5.b

if they are, to provide or confirm information of the kind mentioned in
subsection  (2)  or  (3)  so far as relating to the person, or a trust of
which they are or were a trustee.

4.12.6

A notice under subsection  (4)  or  (5)  must require the person to whom it is
given to comply with the notice within the period of one month beginning with
the day on which it is given.

4.12.7

A person given a notice under subsection  (4)  or  (5)  is not required by
that notice to disclose any information in respect of which a claim to legal
professional privilege or, in Scotland, confidentiality of communications,
could be maintained in legal proceedings.

5

In section 13, at the end insert—

5.6

A reference in this section to a person who is a registrable beneficial owner
in relation to an overseas entity includes, in connection with the obtaining
of information required by section 7(1)(b), 9(1)(c) or 42(1)(c)(i), a
reference to a person who has ceased to be a registrable beneficial owner.

6

After section 17 insert—

######## Exceptions to duty to provide change of beneficiary information

6.17A

6.17A.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide for exceptions to the
requirement to deliver information by virtue of section 7(3)(c) or (4)(c) or
9(3)(c) or (4)(c).

6.17A.2

The Secretary of State must consult the Scottish Ministers before making
regulations under subsection (1) that contain provision that would be within
the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if contained in an Act
of that Parliament.

6.17A.3

The Secretary of State must consult the Department of Finance in Northern
Ireland before making regulations under subsection (1) that contain provision
that—

6.17A.3.a

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

6.17A.3.b

would not, if contained in a Bill for an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State under
section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998.

6.17A.4

Regulations under subsection (1) are subject to the negative resolution
procedure.

7

In section 43 (transitional information), after subsection (1) insert—

7.1A

In subsection (1) the reference to section 12 is to that section as it had
effect before the amendments made by Schedule 6 to the Economic Crime and
Corporate Transparency Act 2023 (duty to deliver information about changes in
beneficiaries).

8

In section 44 (interpretation), omit subsection (2).

Overseas entities: further information for transitional cases

Section 174

1

The Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act 2022 is amended as
follows.

2

In section 16 (verification of registrable beneficial owners and managing
officers), in subsection (1), after paragraph (c) insert—

2.d

complies with the duty under Schedule 6 (duty to deliver further information
about transitional period).

3

After section 43 insert—

######## Duty to deliver further information for transitional cases

3.43A

Schedule 6 (duty to deliver further information for transitional cases)
imposes further duties on overseas entities to deliver information.

4

After Schedule 5 insert—

Duty to deliver further information for transitional cases

########## Application of this Schedule

4.1

4.1.1

This Schedule applies in relation to an overseas entity if—

4.1.1.a

the entity—

4.1.1.a.i

is registered as an overseas entity when this Schedule comes into force or has
been so registered at any earlier time, and

4.1.1.a.ii

was registered as the proprietor of a relevant interest in land in England and
Wales or Scotland at any time during the relevant period, or

4.1.1.b

the entity has committed an offence under paragraph 5 of Schedule 3 or
paragraph 10 of Schedule 4 (duty to register as overseas entity in certain
transitional cases).

4.1.2

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) —

4.1.2.a

an overseas entity is registered as the proprietor of a relevant interest in
land in England and Wales if the entity is registered in the register of title
kept under the Land Registration Act 2002 as the proprietor of a qualifying
estate within the meaning of Schedule 4A to that Act;

4.1.2.b

an overseas entity is registered as the proprietor of a relevant interest in
land in Scotland if the entity—

4.1.2.b.i

is entered, on or after 8 December 2014, as proprietor in the proprietorship
section of the title sheet for a plot of land that is registered in the Land
Register of Scotland,

4.1.2.b.ii

in relation to a lease that was recorded in the General Register of Sasines or
registered in the Land Register of Scotland before that date is, by virtue of
an assignation of the lease registered in the Land Register of Scotland on or
after that date, the tenant under the lease, or

4.1.2.b.iii

is the tenant under a lease that was registered in the Land Register of
Scotland on or after that date.

4.1.3

Expressions used in sub-paragraph  (2)(b)  are to be construed in accordance
with section 9(11) and (12).

4.1.4

In this Schedule “ the relevant period ” means the period—

4.1.4.a

beginning with 28 February 2022;

4.1.4.b

ending with 31 January 2023.

########## Duty to deliver statements and information

4.2

4.2.1

The overseas entity must deliver to the registrar—

4.2.1.a

any statements or information required by—

paragraph  3  (changes in beneficial ownership of overseas entity), paragraph
4  (information about trusts and changes in beneficiaries under trusts), and
paragraph  5  (information about changes in trusts in which beneficial owners
trustees),

4.2.1.b

a statement that the entity has complied with paragraph  8  of this Schedule
(duty to take steps to obtain information),

4.2.1.c

anything required by regulations under section 16 (verification of
information) to be delivered to the registrar, and

4.2.1.d

the name and contact details of an individual who may be contacted about the
statements and information.

4.2.2

If an overseas entity is registered as an overseas entity when this Schedule
comes into force it must deliver the statements and information required by
this Schedule—

4.2.2.a

at the same time as it delivers the statements and information required by
section 7 on the first occasion after the end of the period of 3 months
beginning with the day on which this Schedule comes into force, or

4.2.2.b

if it applies under section 9 for removal before then, at the same time as it
delivers the statements and information required by that section.

4.2.3

If an overseas entity is not registered as an overseas entity when this
Schedule comes into force it must deliver the statements and information
required by this Schedule within the period of 3 months beginning when it
comes into force.

########## Information about changes in beneficial ownership

4.3

4.3.1

The overseas entity must deliver to the registrar the statement in row 1 of
the following table or the statement and information listed in row 2.

Statement Information 1 A statement that the entity has noreasonable cause to
believe that anyone became or ceased to be a registrable beneficial owner
during the relevant period. 2 A statement that the entity has reasonable cause
to believe that at least one person became or ceased to be a registrable
beneficial owner during the relevant period. The required information about
each person who became or ceased to be a registrable beneficial owner during
the relevant period, or so much of that information as the entity has been
able to obtain. The date on which each of them became or ceased to be a
registrable beneficial owner, if the entity has been able to obtain that
information.

4.3.2

Where the information provided under sub-paragraph  (1)  includes information
that the person who became or ceased to be a registrable beneficial owner was
a registrable beneficial owner by virtue of being a trustee (see paragraphs
3(1)(f) and 5(1)(h) of Schedule 1), the overseas entity must also deliver to
the registrar—

4.3.2.a

the required information about the trust or so much of that information as the
overseas entity has been able to obtain, and

4.3.2.b

a statement as to whether the entity has any reasonable cause to believe that
there is required information about the trust that it has not been able to
obtain.

4.3.3

Statements required by this paragraph to be delivered to the registrar must
relate to the time when they are delivered.

4.3.4

Information required by this paragraph to be delivered to the registrar as a
result of a person having become or ceased to be a registrable beneficial
owner must relate to the state of affairs when the person became or ceased be
a registrable beneficial owner.

4.3.5

For the required information, see Schedule 1.

########## Information about trusts and changes in beneficiaries

4.4

4.4.1

The overseas entity must deliver to the registrar—

4.4.1.a

a statement that the entity has no reasonable cause to believe that there is
any person who, at the end of the relevant period, was a registrable
beneficial owner of the entity by virtue of being a trustee, or

4.4.1.b

a statement that the entity has reasonable cause to believe that there is at
least one such person.

4.4.2

Where a statement is delivered under sub-paragraph  (1)(b)  the overseas
entity must also deliver to the registrar —

4.4.2.a

the required information about each trust (a “relevant trust”) by virtue of
which a trustee was a registrable beneficial owner of the entity at the end of
the relevant period,

4.4.2.b

in relation to each relevant trust, a statement as to whether the entity has
any reasonable cause to believe that there is required information about the
trust that it has not been able to obtain, and

4.4.2.c

in relation to each relevant trust, the statement in row 1 of the table set
out in sub-paragraph  (3) , or the statement and information listed in row 2
of that table.

4.4.3

This is the table referred to in sub-paragraph  (2)(c) —

Statement Information 1 A statement that the entity has no reasonable cause to
believe that anyone became or ceased to be a beneficiary under the trust
during the relevant period. 2 A statement that the entity has reasonable cause
to believe that at least one person became or ceased to be a beneficiary under
the trust during the relevant period. The information specified in paragraph
8(1)(d) of Schedule 1 about each person who became or ceased to be a
beneficiary under the trust during the relevant period, or so much of that
information as the entity has been able to obtain. The date on which each of
them became or ceased to be a beneficiary under the trust, if the entity has
been able to obtain that information.

4.4.4

Statements required by this paragraph to be delivered to the registrar must
relate to the time when they are delivered.

4.4.5

Information required by sub-paragraph  (2)(a)  to be delivered to the
registrar must relate to the state of affairs at the end of the relevant
period.

4.4.6

Information required by sub-paragraph  (2)(c)  to be delivered to the
registrar as a result of a person having become or ceased to be a beneficiary
under a trust must relate to the state of affairs when the person became or
ceased be a beneficiary.

4.4.7

For the required information, see Schedule 1.

########## Information about changes in trusts of which registrable beneficial owners trustees

4.5

4.5.1

The overseas entity must deliver to the registrar—

4.5.1.a

a statement that the entity has no reasonable cause to believe that there is
any person who—

4.5.1.a.i

at the end of the relevant period, was a registrable beneficial owner of the
entity by virtue of being a trustee of a trust,

4.5.1.a.ii

at any time during the relevant period was a registrable beneficial owner by
virtue of being a trustee of a different trust, and

4.5.1.a.iii

at the end of the relevant period was not a registrable beneficial owner of
the entity by virtue of being a trustee of the trust mentioned in sub-
paragraph  (ii) , or

4.5.1.b

a statement that the entity has reasonable cause to believe that there is at
least one such person.

4.5.2

Where a statement is delivered under sub-paragraph  (1)(b)  the overseas
entity must deliver to the registrar—

4.5.2.a

the required information about each trust by virtue of which a trustee was a
registrable beneficial owner of the entity at any time during the relevant
period, or so much of that information as the overseas entity has been able to
obtain, and

4.5.2.b

in relation to each such trust, a statement as to whether the entity has any
reasonable cause to believe that there is required information about the trust
that it has not been able to obtain.

4.5.3

Statements required by this paragraph to be delivered to the registrar must
relate to the time when they are delivered.

4.5.4

Information required by sub-paragraph  (2)(a)  to be delivered to the
registrar must relate to the state of affairs—

4.5.4.a

at the beginning of the relevant period, if the registrable beneficial owner
was a trustee of the trust at that time, and

4.5.4.b

otherwise, at the time at which the registrable beneficial owner became a
trustee of the trust.

4.5.5

For the required information, see Schedule 1.

########## Compliance by confirmation of information previously provided

4.6

A requirement imposed by paragraphs  2  to  5  to provide information may be
met (in whole or in part) by confirming information previously provided.

########## Failure to comply with this Schedule

4.7

Section 8 (offence of failure to comply with updating duty) applies in
relation to a failure to comply with a duty imposed by paragraphs  2  to  5
of this Schedule as it applies in relation to a failure to comply with section
7.

########## Obtaining information

4.8

4.8.1

An overseas entity must comply with this paragraph before complying with the
requirements imposed by paragraphs  2  to  5 .

4.8.2

The entity must take reasonable steps—

4.8.2.a

to identify anyone who became or ceased to be a registrable beneficial owner
during the relevant period, and

4.8.2.b

if it identities any such person, to obtain—

4.8.2.b.i

the information mentioned in row 2 of column 2 of the table in paragraph 3(1),
and

4.8.2.b.ii

in the case of anyone mentioned in paragraph 3(2), the information mentioned
there.

4.8.3

The entity must take reasonable steps—

4.8.3.a

to identify any person who, at the end relevant period, was a registrable
beneficial owner by virtue of being a trustee, and

4.8.3.b

if it identities any such person, to obtain —

4.8.3.b.i

the information mentioned in paragraph 4(2)(a) about the relevant trust,

4.8.3.b.ii

information as to whether anyone became or ceased to be a beneficiary under
the relevant trust during the relevant period (a “relevant beneficiary”), and

4.8.3.b.iii

the information mentioned in row 2 of column 2 of the table in paragraph 4(3)
in relation to any relevant beneficiary.

4.8.4

The entity must take reasonable steps—

4.8.4.a

to identify any person who falls within paragraph 5(1)(a)(i) to (iii), and

4.8.4.b

if it identifies any such person, to obtain the information mentioned in
paragraph 5(2)(a).

4.8.5

The steps that an overseas entity must take by virtue of this paragraph
include giving an information notice under this paragraph to any person that
it knows, or has reasonable cause to believe, falls within sub-paragraph
(2)(a), (3)(a) or (4)(a).

4.8.6

An information notice under this paragraph is a notice requiring the recipient
to provide the information mentioned in sub-paragraph (2)(b), (3)(b) or
(4)(b).

4.8.7

Sections 15 to 15B (offences) apply in relation to information notices under
this paragraph as they apply in relation to information notices under section
12.

########## Power to exclude descriptions of registrable beneficial owner

4.9

4.9.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that, for the purposes of
any provision of this Schedule specified in the regulations, a person of a
description so specified is not to be treated as a registrable beneficial
owner of an overseas entity.

4.9.2

No regulations may be made under sub-paragraph (1) after the end of the period
of two years beginning with the day on which the Economic Crime and Corporate
Transparency Act 2023 is passed.

4.9.3

The Secretary of State must consult the Scottish Ministers before making
regulations under sub-paragraph (1) that contain provision that would be
within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if contained in
an Act of that Parliament.

4.9.4

Regulations under sub-paragraph (1) are subject to the negative resolution
procedure.

Cryptoassets: confiscation orders

Section 179

##### England and Wales

###### Introductory

1

Part 2 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (confiscation: England and Wales) is
amended as follows.

###### Seizure of property

2

In section 47B (conditions for exercise of seizure powers)—

2.a

in subsection (2), omit paragraph (b);

2.b

in subsection (3), omit paragraph (b).

3

3.1

Section 47C (power to seize property) is amended as follows.

3.2

In subsection (2), after “not” insert  “under subsection (1)” .

3.3

After subsection (5) insert—

3.3.5A

On being satisfied as mentioned in section 47B(1) an appropriate officer may
seize any free property if the officer has reasonable grounds for suspecting
that it is a cryptoasset-related item.

3.3.5B

A “cryptoasset-related item” is an item of property that is, or that contains
or gives access to information that is, likely to assist in the seizure under
subsection (1) of any cryptoasset.

3.3.5C

The circumstances in which a cryptoasset is “ seized ” for the purposes of
subsection (1) include circumstances in which it is transferred into a crypto
wallet controlled by the appropriate officer.

3.3.5D

If an appropriate officer is lawfully on any premises, the officer may, for
the purpose of—

3.3.5D.a

determining whether any property is a cryptoasset-related item, or

3.3.5D.b

enabling or facilitating the seizure under subsection (1) of any cryptoasset,

require any information which is stored in any electronic form and accessible
from the premises to be produced in a form in which it can be taken away and
in which it is visible and legible, or from which it can readily be produced
in a visible and legible form.

3.3.5E

But subsection (5D) does not authorise an appropriate officer to require a
person to produce information which the person would be entitled to refuse to
provide on grounds of legal professional privilege in proceedings in the High
Court.

3.3.5F

Where an appropriate officer has seized a cryptoasset-related item under
subsection (5A), they may use any information obtained from it for the purpose
of—

3.3.5F.a

identifying or gaining access to a crypto wallet, and

3.3.5F.b

by doing so, enabling or facilitating the seizure under subsection (1) of any
cryptoassets.

4

In section 47R (release of property), in subsection (3)(b), at the end insert
“or (5A)” .

###### Detention and release of property

5

In section 47K (further detention pending making of restraint order), after
subsection (4) insert—

5.5

Exempt property seized under section 47C(5A) may be detained under subsections
(2) and (3) only with the approval of a senior officer.

5.6

In subsection  (5) —

“ exempt property ” has the meaning given in section 47C(4) (reading
references there to the defendant as references to the person by whom the
property is held); “ senior officer ” has the meaning given in section 47G(3)
(and for this purpose, the powers under subsections (2) and (3) to detain
property are to be treated as exercised by the appropriate officer who seized
the property).

6

In section 47L (further detention pending variation of restraint order), after
subsection (3) insert—

6.4

Exempt property seized under section 47C(5A) may be detained under subsections
(2) and (3) only with the approval of a senior officer.

6.5

In subsection  (4) —

“ exempt property ” has the meaning given in section 47C(4) (reading
references there to the defendant as references to the person by whom the
property is held); “ senior officer ” has the meaning given in section 47G(3)
(and for this purpose, the powers under subsections (2) and (3) to detain
property are to be treated as exercised by the appropriate officer who seized
the property).

7

7.1

Section 47M (further detention in other cases) is amended as follows.

7.2

In subsection (2)(b), omit “(within the meaning of section 47C(4))”.

7.3

After subsection (2) insert—

7.3.2A

A magistrates’ court may by order extend the period for which the property may
be detained under section 47J if satisfied that—

7.3.2A.a

any of the conditions in section 47B is met (reading references in that
section to the officer as references to the court),

7.3.2A.b

the property is free property, and

7.3.2A.c

there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the property is a
cryptoasset-related item.

7.3.2B

An order under subsection  (2A)  may not be made in respect of exempt property
unless the court is satisfied that the person applying for the order is
working diligently and expeditiously—

7.3.2B.a

to determine whether the property is a cryptoasset-related item, or

7.3.2B.b

if it has already been determined to be such an item, to seize any related
cryptoassets under section 47C(1).

7.3.2C

An order under subsection (2A) may not extend the period for which the
property may be detained beyond the period of—

7.3.2C.a

six months beginning with the date of the order, or

7.3.2C.b

in the case of exempt property, 14 days beginning with that date.

This does not prevent the period from being further extended by another order
under this section.

7.3.2D

The period of 14 days referred to in subsection  (2C)(b)  is to be calculated
in accordance with section 47H(7) (reading the reference there to 48 hours as
a reference to 14 days).

7.4

In subsection (6), after “section” insert

—

“ exempt property ” has the meaning given in section 47C(4) (reading
references there to the defendant as references to the person by whom the
property is held);

.

8

In section 47R (release of property), after subsection (5) insert—

8.6

If a cryptoasset-related item which has been released is not claimed within
the period of a year beginning with the date on which it was released, the
appropriate officer may—

8.6.a

retain the item and deal with it as they see fit,

8.6.b

dispose of the item, or

8.6.c

destroy the item.

8.7

The powers in subsection  (6)  may be exercised only—

8.7.a

where the appropriate officer has taken reasonable steps to notify—

8.7.a.i

the person from whom the item was seized, and

8.7.a.ii

any other persons who the appropriate officer has reasonable grounds to
believe have an interest in the item,

that the item has been released, and

8.7.b

with the approval of a senior officer.

8.8

“Senior officer” in subsection (7) (b)  has the meaning given in section
47G(3).

8.9

Any proceeds of a disposal of the item are to be paid into the Consolidated
Fund.

###### Property held by persons subject to confiscation orders: destruction, realisation etc

9

In section 10A (determination of extent of defendant’s interest in property),
in subsection (3)(a), after “realisation” insert  “or destruction” .

10

10.1

Section 51 (powers of enforcement receiver) is amended as follows.

10.2

In subsection (2), at the end insert—

10.2.e

so far as the property consists of cryptoassets, power to destroy the
property.

10.3

In subsection (8)(a), for “or (c)” substitute  “, (c) or  (e) ” .

10.4

After subsection (9) insert—

10.4.9A

The court may confer the power mentioned in subsection (2) (e)  only where—

10.4.9A.a

it is not reasonably practicable to realise the cryptoassets in question, or

10.4.9A.b

there are reasonable grounds to believe that the realisation of the
cryptoassets would be contrary to the public interest, having regard in
particular to how likely it is that the entry of the cryptoassets into general
circulation would facilitate criminal conduct by any person.

10.4.9B

An order conferring that power—

10.4.9B.a

must set out the court’s assessment of the market value of the cryptoassets to
which it relates;

10.4.9B.b

may confer power to destroy the cryptoassets only to the extent that their
market value, as set out in the order, is less than or equal to the amount
remaining to be paid under the confiscation order.

10.4.9C

If the receiver destroys any cryptoassets in the exercise of that power, the
defendant is to be treated as having paid, towards satisfaction of the
confiscation order, an amount equal to the market value, as set out in the
order, of the cryptoassets which have been destroyed.

11

11.1

Section 67 (seized money) is amended as follows.

11.2

In subsection (1)(b), for “bank or a building society” substitute  “relevant
financial institution” .

11.3

In subsection (5A)—

11.3.a

for “a bank or building society” substitute  “a relevant financial
institution” ;

11.3.b

for “the bank or building society” substitute  “the relevant financial
institution” .

11.4

In subsection (6), for “bank or building society” substitute  “relevant
financial institution” .

11.5

In subsection (7A), for “bank or building society” substitute  “relevant
financial institution” .

11.6

In subsection (8)—

11.6.a

in paragraph (a) of the definition of “appropriate person”, for the words from
“a bank” to the end substitute  “a relevant financial institution, the
relevant financial institution” ;

11.6.b

at the appropriate places insert—

“ electronic money institution ” has the same meaning as in the Electronic
Money Regulations 2011 ( S.I. 2011/99 ) (see regulation 2 of those
Regulations);

;

“ payment institution ” means an authorised payment institution or a small
payment institution (each as defined in regulation 2 of the Payment Services
Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/752 ));

;

“ relevant financial institution ” means a bank, a building society, an
electronic money institution or a payment institution;

.

11.7

For the heading substitute  “Money” .

12

After section 67 insert—

########## Cryptoassets

12.67ZA

12.67ZA.1

This section applies to cryptoassets which—

12.67ZA.1.a

are held by a person, and

12.67ZA.1.b

are held in a crypto wallet administered by a UK-connected cryptoasset service
provider,

but only so far as the cryptoassets are free property.

12.67ZA.2

Subsection (3) applies if—

12.67ZA.2.a

a confiscation order is made against a person holding cryptoassets to which
this section applies, and

12.67ZA.2.b

a receiver has not been appointed under section 50 in relation to the
cryptoassets.

12.67ZA.3

A magistrates’ court may order the UK-connected cryptoasset service provider
which administers the crypto wallet in which the cryptoassets are held—

12.67ZA.3.a

to realise the cryptoassets, or a portion of the cryptoassets having a
specified value,

12.67ZA.3.b

to pay the proceeds of that realisation to the designated officer for the
court on account of, and up to a maximum of, the amount payable under the
confiscation order, and

12.67ZA.3.c

to the extent that the proceeds of the realisation exceed the amount payable
under the confiscation order, to pay the excess to an appropriate officer
identified in the order.

“ Appropriate officer ” has the same meaning as in section 41A.

12.67ZA.4

A person applying for an order under subsection (3) must give notice of the
application to the UK-connected cryptoasset service provider.

12.67ZA.5

Where the crypto wallet in which the cryptoassets are held is administered on
behalf of someone other than the person against whom the confiscation order is
made, a magistrates’ court—

12.67ZA.5.a

may make an order under subsection (3) only if the extent of the person’s
interest in the money has been determined under section 10A, and

12.67ZA.5.b

must have regard to that determination in deciding what is the appropriate
order to make.

12.67ZA.6

If a UK-connected cryptoasset service provider fails to comply with an order
under subsection (3)—

12.67ZA.6.a

the magistrates’ court may order it to pay an amount not exceeding £5,000, and

12.67ZA.6.b

for the purposes of the Magistrates’ Courts Act 1980 the sum is to be treated
as adjudged to be paid by a conviction of the court.

12.67ZA.7

In order to take account of changes in the value of money the Secretary of
State may by order substitute another sum for the sum for the time being
specified in subsection (6)(a).

12.67ZA.8

Where a UK-connected cryptoasset service provider—

12.67ZA.8.a

is required by an order under subsection (3) to realise a portion of
cryptoassets having a specified value, but

12.67ZA.8.b

on realising cryptoassets under the order, obtains proceeds of an amount which
differs from that value,

it does not fail to comply with the order solely because of that difference in
value, provided that it took reasonable steps to obtain proceeds equal to the
value specified.

########## Meaning of “UK-connected cryptoasset service provider”

12.67ZB

12.67ZB.1

“UK-connected cryptoasset service provider” in section 67ZA means a
cryptoasset service provider which—

12.67ZB.1.a

is acting in the course of business carried on by it in the United Kingdom,

12.67ZB.1.b

has terms and conditions with the persons to whom it provides services which
provide for a legal dispute to be litigated in the courts of a part of the
United Kingdom,

12.67ZB.1.c

holds in the United Kingdom any data relating to the persons to whom it
provides services, or

12.67ZB.1.d

meets the condition in subsection (2).

12.67ZB.2

The condition in this subsection is that—

12.67ZB.2.a

the cryptoasset service provider has its registered office or, if it does not
have one, its head office in the United Kingdom, and

12.67ZB.2.b

the day-to-day management of the provider’s business is the responsibility of
that office or another establishment maintained by it in the United Kingdom.

12.67ZB.3

“Cryptoasset service provider” in subsections (1) and (2) includes a
cryptoasset exchange provider and a custodian wallet provider; and for this
purpose—

“ cryptoasset exchange provider ” means a firm or sole practitioner who by way
of business provides one or more of the following services, including where
the firm or sole practitioner does so as creator or issuer of any of the
cryptoassets involved— exchanging, or arranging or making arrangements with a
view to the exchange of, cryptoassets for money or money for cryptoassets;
exchanging, or arranging or making arrangements with a view to the exchange
of, one cryptoasset for another; operating a machine which utilises automated
processes to exchange cryptoassets for money or money for cryptoassets; “
custodian wallet provider ” means a firm or sole practitioner who by way of
business provides services to safeguard, or to safeguard and administer—
cryptoassets on behalf of its customers, or private cryptographic keys on
behalf of its customers in order to hold, store and transfer cryptoassets.

12.67ZB.4

In the definition of “cryptoasset exchange provider” in subsection (3), “
cryptoasset ” includes a right to, or interest in, a cryptoasset.

12.67ZB.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the definitions in subsection
(3) (including by amending subsection (4)).

13

After section 67A insert—

########## Destruction of seized cryptoassets

13.67AA

13.67AA.1

This section applies to cryptoassets which are held by a person and which have
been seized by an appropriate officer under a relevant seizure power.

13.67AA.2

A magistrates’ court may by order authorise an appropriate officer to destroy
the cryptoassets if—

13.67AA.2.a

a confiscation order is made against the person by whom the cryptoassets are
held,

13.67AA.2.b

a receiver has not been appointed under section 50 in relation to the
cryptoassets, and

13.67AA.2.c

either—

13.67AA.2.c.i

it is not reasonably practicable to realise the cryptoassets, or

13.67AA.2.c.ii

there are reasonable grounds to believe that the realisation of the
cryptoassets would be contrary to the public interest, having regard in
particular to how likely it is that the entry of the cryptoassets into general
circulation would facilitate criminal conduct by any person.

13.67AA.3

An order under this section—

13.67AA.3.a

must set out the court’s assessment of the market value of the cryptoassets to
which it relates;

13.67AA.3.b

may authorise the destruction of cryptoassets only to the extent that their
market value, as set out in the order, is less than or equal to the amount
remaining to be paid under the confiscation order.

13.67AA.4

Before making an order under this section, the court must give persons who
hold interests in the cryptoassets a reasonable opportunity to make
representations to it.

13.67AA.5

If cryptoassets held by a person are destroyed following an order under this
section, the person is to be treated as having paid, towards satisfaction of
the confiscation order, an amount equal to the market value, as set out in the
order, of the cryptoassets which have been destroyed.

13.67AA.6

In this section “ appropriate officer ” and “ relevant seizure power ” have
the same meaning as in section 41A.

14

14.1

Section 67C (sections 67A and 67B: appeals) is amended as follows.

14.2

In subsection (1), for “67A” substitute  “67ZA(3), 67A(3) or 67AA(2)” .

14.3

In subsection (2), for “67A” substitute  “67ZA(3), 67A(3) or 67AA(2)” .

14.4

In subsection (3), for “67A(2)(a)” substitute  “67ZA(2)(a), 67A(3)(a) or
67AA(2)(a) (as applicable)” .

14.5

In the heading, for “67A and” substitute  “67ZA to” .

15

In section 67D (proceeds of realisation), in subsection (1)(b), after
“section” insert  “67ZA or” .

16

For the italic heading before section 67, substitute  “Enforcement: money,
cryptoassets and personal property” .

17

In section 69 (powers of court and receiver etc), after subsection (2) insert—

17.2A

Subsection (2)(a) does not apply to—

17.2A.a

the power conferred on a court by paragraph (e) of section 51(2) (which
enables the court to give a receiver the power to destroy cryptoassets),

17.2A.b

a power conferred on a receiver by virtue of that paragraph, or

17.2A.c

the power conferred on a magistrates’ court by section 67AA (power to order
destruction of cryptoassets).

###### Interpretation and miscellaneous provision

18

After section 84 insert—

########## Cryptoassets etc

18.84A

18.84A.1

“ Cryptoasset ” means a cryptographically secured digital representation of
value or contractual rights that uses a form of distributed ledger technology
and can be transferred, stored or traded electronically.

18.84A.2

“ Crypto wallet ” means—

18.84A.2.a

software,

18.84A.2.b

hardware,

18.84A.2.c

a physical item, or

18.84A.2.d

any combination of the things mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (c),

which is used to store the cryptographic private key that allows cryptoassets
to be accessed.

18.84A.3

“ Cryptoasset-related item ” has the meaning given in section 47C(5B).

18.84A.4

The circumstances in which a cryptoasset is taken to be “destroyed” include
circumstances where it is—

18.84A.4.a

disposed of,

18.84A.4.b

transferred, or

18.84A.4.c

otherwise dealt with,

in such a way as to ensure, or to make it virtually certain, that it will not
be the subject of any further transactions or be dealt with again in any other
way.

18.84A.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the definitions of
“cryptoasset” and “crypto wallet” in this section.

##### Scotland

###### Introductory

19

Part 3 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (confiscation: Scotland) is amended
as follows.

###### Seizure of property

20

In section 127B (conditions for exercise of seizure powers)—

20.a

in subsection (2), omit paragraph (b);

20.b

in subsection (3), omit paragraph (b).

21

21.1

Section 127C (power to seize property) is amended as follows.

21.2

In subsection (2), after “not” insert  “under subsection (1)” .

21.3

After subsection (5) insert—

21.3.5A

On being satisfied as mentioned in section 127B(1) an appropriate officer may
seize any free property if the officer has reasonable grounds for suspecting
that it is a cryptoasset-related item.

21.3.5B

A “cryptoasset-related item” is an item of property that is, or that contains
or gives access to information that is, likely to assist in the seizure under
subsection (1) of any cryptoasset.

21.3.5C

The circumstances in which a cryptoasset is “ seized ” for the purposes of
subsection (1) include circumstances in which it is transferred into a crypto
wallet controlled by the appropriate officer.

21.3.5D

If an appropriate officer is lawfully on any premises, the officer may, for
the purpose of—

21.3.5D.a

determining whether any property is a cryptoasset-related item, or

21.3.5D.b

enabling or facilitating the seizure under subsection (1) of any cryptoasset,

require any information which is stored in any electronic form and accessible
from the premises to be produced in a form in which it can be taken away and
in which it is visible and legible, or from which it can readily be produced
in a visible and legible form.

21.3.5E

But subsection (5D) does not authorise an appropriate officer to require a
person to produce any items subject to legal privilege (as defined in section
412).

21.3.5F

Where an appropriate officer has seized a cryptoasset-related item under
subsection (5A), they may use any information obtained from it for the purpose
of—

21.3.5F.a

identifying or gaining access to a crypto wallet, and

21.3.5F.b

by doing so, enabling or facilitating the seizure under subsection (1) of any
cryptoassets.

22

In section 127Q (release of property), in subsection (3)(b), at the end insert
“or (5A)” .

###### Detention and release of property

23

In section 127K (further detention pending making of restraint order), after
subsection (4) insert—

23.5

Exempt property seized under section 127C(5A) may be detained under
subsections (2) and (3) only with the approval of a senior officer.

23.6

In subsection  (5) —

“ exempt property ” has the meaning given in section 127C(4) (reading
references there to the accused as references to the person by whom the
property is held); “ senior officer ” has the meaning given in section 127G(3)
(and for this purpose, the powers under subsections (2) and (3) to detain
property are to be treated as exercised by the appropriate officer who seized
the property).

24

In section 127L (further detention pending variation of restraint order),
after subsection (3) insert—

24.4

Exempt property seized under section 127C(5A) may be detained under
subsections (2) and (3) only with the approval of a senior officer.

24.5

In subsection  (4) —

“ exempt property ” has the meaning given in section 127C(4) (reading
references there to the accused as references to the person by whom the
property is held); “ senior officer ” has the meaning given in section 127G(3)
(and for this purpose, the powers under subsections (2) and (3) to detain
property are to be treated as exercised by the appropriate officer who seized
the property).

25

25.1

Section 127M (further detention in other cases) is amended as follows.

25.2

In subsection (2)(b), omit “(within the meaning of section 127C(4))”.

25.3

After subsection (2) insert—

25.3.2A

The sheriff may by order extend the period for which the property may be
detained under section 127J if satisfied that—

25.3.2A.a

any of the conditions in section 127B is met (reading references in that
section to the officer as references to the sheriff),

25.3.2A.b

the property is free property, and

25.3.2A.c

there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the property is a
cryptoasset-related item.

25.3.2B

An order under subsection  (2A)  may not be made in respect of exempt property
unless the sheriff is satisfied that the person applying for the order is
working diligently and expeditiously—

25.3.2B.a

to determine whether the property is a cryptoasset-related item, or

25.3.2B.b

if it has already been determined to be such an item, to seize any related
cryptoassets under section 127C(1).

25.3.2C

An order under subsection (2A) may not extend the period for which the
property may be detained beyond the period of—

25.3.2C.a

six months beginning with the date of the order, or

25.3.2C.b

in the case of exempt property, 14 days beginning with that date.

This does not prevent the period from being further extended by another order
under this section.

25.3.2D

The period of 14 days referred to in subsection  (2C)(b)  is to be calculated
in accordance with section 127H(7) (reading the reference there to 48 hours as
a reference to 14 days).

25.4

In subsection (6), after “section” insert

—

“ exempt property ” has the meaning given in section 127C(4) (reading
references there to the accused as references to the person by whom the
property is held);

.

26

In section 127Q (release of property), after subsection (5) insert—

26.6

If a cryptoasset-related item which has been released is not claimed within
the period of a year beginning with the date on which it was released, the
appropriate officer may—

26.6.a

retain the item and deal with it as they see fit,

26.6.b

dispose of the item, or

26.6.c

destroy the item.

26.7

The powers in subsection  (6)  may be exercised only—

26.7.a

where the appropriate officer has taken reasonable steps to notify—

26.7.a.i

the person from whom the item was seized, and

26.7.a.ii

any other persons who the appropriate officer has reasonable grounds to
believe have an interest in the item,

that the item has been released, and

26.7.b

with the approval of a senior officer.

26.8

“Senior officer” in subsection (7) (b)  has the meaning given in section
127G(3).

26.9

Any proceeds of a disposal of the item are to be paid into the Scottish
Consolidated Fund.

###### Property held by persons subject to confiscation orders: destruction, realisation etc

27

27.1

Section 128 (enforcement administrators) is amended as follows.

27.2

In subsection (6), at the end insert—

27.2.d

so far as the property consists of cryptoassets, power to destroy the
property.

27.3

In subsection (11)(a), for “or (c)” substitute  “, (c) or (d)” .

27.4

After subsection (13) insert—

27.4.13A

The court may confer the power mentioned in subsection (6)(d) only where—

27.4.13A.a

it is not reasonably practicable to realise the cryptoassets in question, or

27.4.13A.b

there are reasonable grounds to believe that the realisation of the
cryptoassets would be contrary to the public interest, having regard in
particular to how likely it is that the entry of the cryptoassets into general
circulation would facilitate criminal conduct by any person.

27.4.13B

An order conferring that power—

27.4.13B.a

must set out the court’s assessment of the market value of the cryptoassets to
which it relates;

27.4.13B.b

may confer power to destroy the cryptoassets only to the extent that their
market value, as set out in the order, is less than or equal to the amount
remaining to be paid under the confiscation order.

27.4.13C

If the administrator destroys any cryptoassets in the exercise of that power,
the accused is to be treated as having paid, towards satisfaction of the
confiscation order, an amount equal to the market value, as set out in the
order, of the cryptoassets which have been destroyed.

28

28.1

Section 131ZA (seized money) is amended as follows.

28.2

In subsection (1)(b), for “bank or building society” substitute  “relevant
financial institution” .

28.3

In subsection (7), for “bank or building society” substitute  “relevant
financial institution” .

28.4

In subsection (9)—

28.4.a

in paragraph (a) of the definition of “appropriate person”, for the words from
“a bank” to the end substitute  “a relevant financial institution, the
relevant financial institution” ;

28.4.b

at the appropriate places insert—

“ electronic money institution ” has the same meaning as in the Electronic
Money Regulations 2011 ( S.I. 2011/99 ) (see regulation 2 of those
Regulations);

;

“ payment institution ” means an authorised payment institution or a small
payment institution (each as defined in regulation 2 of the Payment Services
Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/752 ));

;

“ relevant financial institution ” means a bank, a building society, an
electronic money institution or a payment institution;

.

28.5

For the heading substitute  “Money” .

29

After section 131ZA insert—

########## Cryptoassets

29.131ZB

29.131ZB.1

This section applies to cryptoassets which—

29.131ZB.1.a

are held by a person, and

29.131ZB.1.b

are held in a crypto wallet administered by a UK-connected cryptoasset service
provider,

but only so far as the cryptoassets are free property.

29.131ZB.2

Subsection (3) applies if—

29.131ZB.2.a

a confiscation order is made against a person holding cryptoassets to which
this section applies, and

29.131ZB.2.b

an administrator has not been appointed under section 128 in relation to the
cryptoassets.

29.131ZB.3

The sheriff may order the UK-connected cryptoasset service provider which
administers the crypto wallet in which the cryptoassets are held—

29.131ZB.3.a

to realise the cryptoassets, or a portion of the cryptoassets having a
specified value,

29.131ZB.3.b

to pay the proceeds of that realisation to the appropriate clerk of court on
account of, and up to a maximum of, the amount payable under the confiscation
order, and

29.131ZB.3.c

to the extent that the proceeds of the realisation exceed the amount payable
under the confiscation order, to pay the excess to an appropriate officer
identified in the order.

29.131ZB.4

In subsection (3)—

“ appropriate clerk of court ” means the sheriff clerk of the sheriff court
responsible for enforcing the confiscation order under section 211 of the
Procedure Act as applied by section 118(1); “ appropriate officer ” has the
same meaning as in section 120A.

29.131ZB.5

An order under subsection (3) may be made—

29.131ZB.5.a

on the application of the prosecutor, or

29.131ZB.5.b

by the sheriff of the sheriff’s own accord.

29.131ZB.6

Where a UK-connected cryptoasset service provider—

29.131ZB.6.a

is required by an order under subsection (3) to realise a portion of
cryptoassets having a specified value, but

29.131ZB.6.b

on realising cryptoassets under the order, obtains proceeds of an amount which
differs from that value,

it does not fail to comply with the order solely because of that difference in
value, provided that it took reasonable steps to obtain proceeds equal to the
value specified.

########## Meaning of “UK-connected cryptoasset service provider”

29.131ZC

29.131ZC.1

“UK-connected cryptoasset service provider” in section 131ZB means a
cryptoasset service provider which—

29.131ZC.1.a

is acting in the course of business carried on by it in the United Kingdom,

29.131ZC.1.b

has terms and conditions with the persons to whom it provides services which
provide for a legal dispute to be litigated in the courts of a part of the
United Kingdom,

29.131ZC.1.c

holds in the United Kingdom any data relating to the persons to whom it
provides services, or

29.131ZC.1.d

meets the condition in subsection (2).

29.131ZC.2

The condition in this subsection is that—

29.131ZC.2.a

the cryptoasset service provider has its registered office or, if it does not
have one, its head office in the United Kingdom, and

29.131ZC.2.b

the day-to-day management of the provider’s business is the responsibility of
that office or another establishment maintained by it in the United Kingdom.

29.131ZC.3

“Cryptoasset service provider” in subsections (1) and (2) includes a
cryptoasset exchange provider and a custodian wallet provider; and for this
purpose—

“ cryptoasset exchange provider ” means a firm or sole practitioner who by way
of business provides one or more of the following services, including where
the firm or sole practitioner does so as creator or issuer of any of the
cryptoassets involved— exchanging, or arranging or making arrangements with a
view to the exchange of, cryptoassets for money or money for cryptoassets;
exchanging, or arranging or making arrangements with a view to the exchange
of, one cryptoasset for another; operating a machine which utilises automated
processes to exchange cryptoassets for money or money for cryptoassets; “
custodian wallet provider ” means a firm or sole practitioner who by way of
business provides services to safeguard, or to safeguard and administer—
cryptoassets on behalf of its customers, or private cryptographic keys on
behalf of its customers in order to hold, store and transfer cryptoassets.

29.131ZC.4

In the definition of “cryptoasset exchange provider” in subsection (3), “
cryptoasset ” includes a right to, or interest in, a cryptoasset.

29.131ZC.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the definitions in subsection
(3) (including by amending subsection (4)).

29.131ZC.6

The Secretary of State must consult the Scottish Ministers before making
regulations under subsection (5).

30

After section 131A insert—

########## Destruction of seized cryptoassets

30.131AA

30.131AA.1

This section applies to cryptoassets which are held by a person and which have
been seized by an appropriate officer under a relevant seizure power.

30.131AA.2

The sheriff may by order authorise an appropriate officer to destroy the
cryptoassets if—

30.131AA.2.a

a confiscation order is made against the person by whom the cryptoassets are
held,

30.131AA.2.b

an administrator has not been appointed under section 128 in relation to the
cryptoassets, and

30.131AA.2.c

either—

30.131AA.2.c.i

it is not reasonably practicable to realise the cryptoassets, or

30.131AA.2.c.ii

there are reasonable grounds to believe that the realisation of the
cryptoassets would be contrary to the public interest, having regard in
particular to how likely it is that the entry of the cryptoassets into general
circulation would facilitate criminal conduct by any person.

30.131AA.3

An order under this section may be made—

30.131AA.3.a

on the application of the prosecutor, or

30.131AA.3.b

by the sheriff of the sheriff’s own accord.

30.131AA.4

An order under this section—

30.131AA.4.a

must set out the sheriff’s assessment of the market value of the cryptoassets
to which it relates;

30.131AA.4.b

may authorise the destruction of cryptoassets only to the extent that their
market value, as set out in the order, is less than or equal to the amount
remaining to be paid under the confiscation order.

30.131AA.5

Before making an order under this section, the sheriff must give persons who
hold interests in the cryptoassets a reasonable opportunity to make
representations to it.

30.131AA.6

If cryptoassets held by a person are destroyed following an order under this
section, the person is to be treated as having paid, towards satisfaction of
the confiscation order, an amount equal to the market value, as set out in the
order, of the cryptoassets which have been destroyed.

30.131AA.7

In this section “ appropriate officer ” and “ relevant seizure power ” have
the same meaning as in section 120A.

31

31.1

Section 131C (sections 131A and 131B: appeals) is amended as follows.

31.2

In subsection (1), for “131A” substitute  “131A(3)” .

31.3

After subsection (1) insert—

31.3.1A

If a sheriff decides not to make an order under section 131ZB(3) or 131AA(2),
the prosecutor may appeal to the Court of Session.

31.4

In subsection (2), for “131A” substitute  “131ZB(3), 131A(3) or 131AA(2)” .

31.5

In subsection (3), for “131A(2)(a)” substitute  “131ZB(2)(a), 131A(2)(a) or
131AA(2)(a) (as applicable)” .

31.6

In the heading, for “131A and” substitute  “131ZB to” .

32

In section 131D (proceeds of realisation), in subsection (1)(b), after
“section” insert  “131ZB or” .

33

For the italic heading before section 131ZA, substitute  “Enforcement: money,
cryptoassets and personal property” .

34

Omit the italic heading before section 131A.

35

In section 132 (powers of court and administrator etc), after subsection (2)
insert—

35.2A

Subsection (2)(a) does not apply to—

35.2A.a

the power conferred on a court by paragraph (d) of section 128(6) (which
enables the court to give an administrator the power to destroy cryptoassets),

35.2A.b

a power conferred on an administrator by virtue of that paragraph, or

35.2A.c

the power conferred on the sheriff by section 131AA (power to order
destruction of cryptoassets).

###### Interpretation and miscellaneous provision

36

After section 150 insert—

########## Cryptoassets etc

36.150A

36.150A.1

“ Cryptoasset ” means a cryptographically secured digital representation of
value or contractual rights that uses a form of distributed ledger technology
and can be transferred, stored or traded electronically.

36.150A.2

“ Crypto wallet ” means—

36.150A.2.a

software,

36.150A.2.b

hardware,

36.150A.2.c

a physical item, or

36.150A.2.d

any combination of the things mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (c),

which is used to store the cryptographic private key that allows cryptoassets
to be accessed.

36.150A.3

“ Cryptoasset-related item ” has the meaning given in section 127C(5B).

36.150A.4

The circumstances in which a cryptoasset is taken to be “destroyed” include
circumstances where it is—

36.150A.4.a

disposed of,

36.150A.4.b

transferred, or

36.150A.4.c

otherwise dealt with,

in such a way as to ensure, or to make it virtually certain, that it will not
be the subject of any further transactions or be dealt with again in any other
way.

36.150A.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the definitions of
“cryptoasset” and “crypto wallet” in this section.

36.150A.6

The Secretary of State must consult the Scottish Ministers before making
regulations under subsection (5).

##### Northern Ireland

###### Introductory

37

Part 4 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (confiscation: Northern Ireland) is
amended as follows.

###### Seizure of property

38

In section 195B (conditions for exercise of seizure powers)—

38.a

in subsection (2), omit paragraph (b);

38.b

in subsection (3), omit paragraph (b).

39

39.1

Section 195C (power to seize property) is amended as follows.

39.2

In subsection (2), after “not” insert  “under subsection (1)” .

39.3

After subsection (5) insert—

39.3.5A

On being satisfied as mentioned in section 195B(1) an appropriate officer may
seize any free property if the officer has reasonable grounds for suspecting
that it is a cryptoasset-related item.

39.3.5B

A “cryptoasset-related item” is an item of property that is, or that contains
or gives access to information that is, likely to assist in the seizure under
subsection (1) of any cryptoasset.

39.3.5C

The circumstances in which a cryptoasset is “ seized ” for the purposes of
subsection (1) include circumstances in which it is transferred into a crypto
wallet controlled by the appropriate officer.

39.3.5D

If an appropriate officer is lawfully on any premises, the officer may, for
the purpose of—

39.3.5D.a

determining whether any property is a cryptoasset-related item, or

39.3.5D.b

enabling or facilitating the seizure under subsection (1) of any cryptoasset,

require any information which is stored in any electronic form and accessible
from the premises to be produced in a form in which it can be taken away and
in which it is visible and legible, or from which it can readily be produced
in a visible and legible form.

39.3.5E

But subsection (5D) does not authorise an appropriate officer to require a
person to produce information which the person would be entitled to refuse to
provide on grounds of legal professional privilege in proceedings in the High
Court.

39.3.5F

Where an appropriate officer has seized a cryptoasset-related item under
subsection (5A), they may use any information obtained from it for the purpose
of—

39.3.5F.a

identifying or gaining access to a crypto wallet, and

39.3.5F.b

by doing so, enabling or facilitating the seizure under subsection (1) of any
cryptoassets.

40

In section 195R (release of property), in subsection (3)(b), at the end insert
“or (5A)” .

###### Detention and release of property

41

In section 195K (further detention pending making of restraint order), after
subsection (4) insert—

41.5

Exempt property seized under section 195C(5A) may be detained under
subsections (2) and (3) only with the approval of a senior officer.

41.6

In subsection  (5) —

“ exempt property ” has the meaning given in section 195C(4) (reading
references there to the defendant as references to the person by whom the
property is held); “ senior officer ” has the meaning given in section 195G(3)
(and for this purpose, the powers under subsections (2) and (3) to detain
property are to be treated as exercised by the appropriate officer who seized
the property).

42

In section 195L (further detention pending variation of restraint order),
after subsection (3) insert—

42.4

Exempt property seized under section 195C(5A) may be detained under
subsections (2) and (3) only with the approval of a senior officer.

42.5

In subsection  (4) —

“ exempt property ” has the meaning given in section 195C(4) (reading
references there to the defendant as references to the person by whom the
property is held); “ senior officer ” has the meaning given in section 195G(3)
(and for this purpose, the powers under subsections (2) and (3) to detain
property are to be treated as exercised by the appropriate officer who seized
the property).

43

43.1

Section 195M (further detention in other cases) is amended as follows.

43.2

In subsection (2)(b), omit “(within the meaning of section 195C(4))”.

43.3

After subsection (2) insert—

43.3.2A

A magistrates’ court may by order extend the period for which the property may
be detained under section 195J if satisfied that—

43.3.2A.a

any of the conditions in section 195B is met (reading references in that
section to the officer as references to the court),

43.3.2A.b

the property is free property, and

43.3.2A.c

there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the property is a
cryptoasset-related item.

43.3.2B

An order under subsection  (2A)  may not be made in respect of exempt property
unless the court is satisfied that the person applying for the order is
working diligently and expeditiously—

43.3.2B.a

to determine whether the property is a cryptoasset-related item, or

43.3.2B.b

if it has already been determined to be such an item, to seize any related
cryptoassets under section 195C(1).

43.3.2C

An order under subsection (2A) may not extend the period for which the
property may be detained beyond the period of—

43.3.2C.a

six months beginning with the date of the order, or

43.3.2C.b

in the case of exempt property, 14 days beginning with that date.

This does not prevent the period from being further extended by another order
under this section.

43.3.2D

The period of 14 days referred to in subsection  (2C)(b)  is to be calculated
in accordance with section 195H(7) (reading the reference there to 48 hours as
a reference to 14 days).

43.4

In subsection (6), after “section” insert

—

“ exempt property ” has the meaning given in section 195C(4) (reading
references there to the defendant as references to the person by whom the
property is held);

.

44

In section 195R (release of property), after subsection (5) insert—

44.6

If a cryptoasset-related item which has been released is not claimed within
the period of a year beginning with the date on which it was released, the
appropriate officer may—

44.6.a

retain the item and deal with it as they see fit,

44.6.b

dispose of the item, or

44.6.c

destroy the item.

44.7

The powers in subsection  (6)  may be exercised only—

44.7.a

where the appropriate officer has taken reasonable steps to notify—

44.7.a.i

the person from whom the item was seized, and

44.7.a.ii

any other persons who the appropriate officer has reasonable grounds to
believe have an interest in the item,

that the item has been released, and

44.7.b

with the approval of a senior officer.

44.8

“Senior officer” in subsection (7) (b)  has the meaning given in section
195G(3).

44.9

Any proceeds of a disposal of the item are to be paid into the Consolidated
Fund.

###### Property held by persons subject to confiscation orders: destruction, realisation etc

45

In section 160A (determination of extent of defendant’s interest in property),
in subsection (3)(a), after “realisation” insert  “or destruction” .

46

46.1

Section 199 (powers of enforcement receiver) is amended as follows.

46.2

In subsection (2), at the end insert—

46.2.e

so far as the property consists of cryptoassets, power to destroy the
property.

46.3

In subsection (8)(a), for “or (c)” substitute  “, (c) or  (e) ” .

46.4

After subsection (9) insert—

46.4.9A

The court may confer the power mentioned in subsection (2) (e)  only where—

46.4.9A.a

it is not reasonably practicable to realise the cryptoassets in question, or

46.4.9A.b

there are reasonable grounds to believe that the realisation of the
cryptoassets would be contrary to the public interest, having regard in
particular to how likely it is that the entry of the cryptoassets into general
circulation would facilitate criminal conduct by any person.

46.4.9B

An order conferring that power—

46.4.9B.a

must set out the court’s assessment of the market value of the cryptoassets to
which it relates;

46.4.9B.b

may confer power to destroy the cryptoassets only to the extent that their
market value, as set out in the order, is less than or equal to the amount
remaining to be paid under the confiscation order.

46.4.9C

If the receiver destroys any cryptoassets in the exercise of that power, the
defendant is to be treated as having paid, towards satisfaction of the
confiscation order, an amount equal to the market value, as set out in the
order, of the cryptoassets which have been destroyed.

47

47.1

Section 215 (seized money) is amended as follows.

47.2

In subsection (1)(b), for “bank or a building society” substitute  “relevant
financial institution” .

47.3

In subsection (5A)—

47.3.a

for “a bank or building society” substitute  “a relevant financial
institution” ;

47.3.b

for “the bank or building society” substitute  “the relevant financial
institution” .

47.4

In subsection (6), for “bank or building society” substitute  “relevant
financial institution” .

47.5

In subsection (7A), for “bank or building society” substitute  “relevant
financial institution” .

47.6

In subsection (8)—

47.6.a

in paragraph (a) of the definition of “appropriate person”, for the words from
“a bank” to the end substitute  “a relevant financial institution, the
relevant financial institution” ;

47.6.b

at the appropriate places insert—

“ electronic money institution ” has the same meaning as in the Electronic
Money Regulations 2011 ( S.I. 2011/99 ) (see regulation 2 of those
Regulations);

;

“ payment institution ” means an authorised payment institution or a small
payment institution (each as defined in regulation 2 of the Payment Services
Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/752 ));

;

“ relevant financial institution ” means a bank, a building society, an
electronic money institution or a payment institution;

.

47.7

For the heading substitute  “Money” .

48

After section 215 insert—

########## Cryptoassets

48.215ZA

48.215ZA.1

This section applies to cryptoassets which—

48.215ZA.1.a

are held by a person, and

48.215ZA.1.b

are held in a crypto wallet administered by a UK-connected cryptoasset service
provider,

but only so far as the cryptoassets are free property.

48.215ZA.2

Subsection (3) applies if—

48.215ZA.2.a

a confiscation order is made against a person holding cryptoassets to which
this section applies, and

48.215ZA.2.b

a receiver has not been appointed under section 198 in relation to the
cryptoassets.

48.215ZA.3

A magistrates’ court may order the UK-connected cryptoasset service provider
which administers the crypto wallet in which the cryptoassets are held—

48.215ZA.3.a

to realise the cryptoassets, or a portion of the cryptoassets having a
specified value,

48.215ZA.3.b

to pay the proceeds of that realisation to the appropriate chief clerk on
account of, and up to a maximum of, the amount payable under the confiscation
order, and

48.215ZA.3.c

to the extent that the proceeds of the realisation exceed the amount payable
under the confiscation order, to pay the excess to an appropriate officer
identified in the order.

48.215ZA.4

In subsection (3)—

“ appropriate chief clerk ” has the same meaning as in section 202(7); “
appropriate officer ” has the same meaning as in section 195A.

48.215ZA.5

A person applying for an order under subsection (3) must give notice of the
application to the UK-connected cryptoasset service provider.

48.215ZA.6

Where the crypto wallet in which the cryptoassets are held is administered on
behalf of someone other than the person against whom the confiscation order is
made, a magistrates’ court—

48.215ZA.6.a

may make an order under subsection (3) only if the extent of the person’s
interest in the money has been determined under section 160A, and

48.215ZA.6.b

must have regard to that determination in deciding what is the appropriate
order to make.

48.215ZA.7

If a UK-connected cryptoasset service provider fails to comply with an order
under subsection (3)—

48.215ZA.7.a

the magistrates’ court may order it to pay an amount not exceeding £5,000, and

48.215ZA.7.b

for the purposes of the Magistrates’ Courts (Northern Ireland) Order 1981 (
S.I. 1981/1675 (N.I. 26) ) the sum is to be treated as adjudged to be paid by
a conviction of the court.

48.215ZA.8

In order to take account of changes in the value of money the Department of
Justice in Northern Ireland may by order substitute another sum for the sum
for the time being specified in subsection (7)(a).

48.215ZA.9

Where a UK-connected cryptoasset service provider—

48.215ZA.9.a

is required by an order under subsection (3) to realise a portion of
cryptoassets having a specified value, but

48.215ZA.9.b

on realising cryptoassets under the order, obtains proceeds of an amount which
differs from that value,

it does not fail to comply with the order solely because of that difference in
value, provided that it took reasonable steps to obtain proceeds equal to the
value specified.

########## Meaning of “UK-connected cryptoasset service provider”

48.215ZB

48.215ZB.1

“UK-connected cryptoasset service provider” in section 215ZA means a
cryptoasset service provider which—

48.215ZB.1.a

is acting in the course of business carried on by it in the United Kingdom,

48.215ZB.1.b

has terms and conditions with the persons to whom it provides services which
provide for a legal dispute to be litigated in the courts of a part of the
United Kingdom,

48.215ZB.1.c

holds in the United Kingdom any data relating to the persons to whom it
provides services, or

48.215ZB.1.d

meets the condition in subsection (2).

48.215ZB.2

The condition in this subsection is that—

48.215ZB.2.a

the cryptoasset service provider has its registered office or, if it does not
have one, its head office in the United Kingdom, and

48.215ZB.2.b

the day-to-day management of the provider’s business is the responsibility of
that office or another establishment maintained by it in the United Kingdom.

48.215ZB.3

“Cryptoasset service provider” in subsections (1) and (2) includes a
cryptoasset exchange provider and a custodian wallet provider; and for this
purpose—

“ cryptoasset exchange provider ” means a firm or sole practitioner who by way
of business provides one or more of the following services, including where
the firm or sole practitioner does so as creator or issuer of any of the
cryptoassets involved— exchanging, or arranging or making arrangements with a
view to the exchange of, cryptoassets for money or money for cryptoassets;
exchanging, or arranging or making arrangements with a view to the exchange
of, one cryptoasset for another; operating a machine which utilises automated
processes to exchange cryptoassets for money or money for cryptoassets; “
custodian wallet provider ” means a firm or sole practitioner who by way of
business provides services to safeguard, or to safeguard and administer—
cryptoassets on behalf of its customers, or private cryptographic keys on
behalf of its customers in order to hold, store and transfer cryptoassets.

48.215ZB.4

In the definition of “cryptoasset exchange provider” in subsection (3), “
cryptoasset ” includes a right to, or interest in, a cryptoasset.

48.215ZB.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the definitions in subsection
(3) (including by amending subsection (4)).

48.215ZB.6

The Secretary of State must consult the Department of Justice in Northern
Ireland before making regulations under subsection (5).

49

After section 215A insert—

########## Destruction of seized cryptoassets

49.215AA

49.215AA.1

This section applies to cryptoassets which are held by a person and which have
been seized by an appropriate officer under a relevant seizure power.

49.215AA.2

A magistrates’ court may by order authorise an appropriate officer to destroy
the cryptoassets if—

49.215AA.2.a

a confiscation order is made against the person by whom the cryptoassets are
held,

49.215AA.2.b

a receiver has not been appointed under section 198 in relation to the
cryptoassets, and

49.215AA.2.c

either—

49.215AA.2.c.i

it is not reasonably practicable to realise the cryptoassets, or

49.215AA.2.c.ii

there are reasonable grounds to believe that the realisation of the
cryptoassets would be contrary to the public interest, having regard in
particular to how likely it is that the entry of the cryptoassets into general
circulation would facilitate criminal conduct by any person.

49.215AA.3

An order under this section—

49.215AA.3.a

must set out the court’s assessment of the market value of the cryptoassets to
which it relates;

49.215AA.3.b

may authorise the destruction of cryptoassets only to the extent that their
market value, as set out in the order, is less than or equal to the amount
remaining to be paid under the confiscation order.

49.215AA.4

Before making an order under this section, the court must give persons who
hold interests in the cryptoassets a reasonable opportunity to make
representations to it.

49.215AA.5

If cryptoassets held by a person are destroyed following an order under this
section, the person is to be treated as having paid, towards satisfaction of
the confiscation order, an amount equal to the market value, as set out in the
order, of the cryptoassets which have been destroyed.

49.215AA.6

In this section “ appropriate officer ” and “ relevant seizure power ” have
the same meaning as in section 190A.

50

50.1

Section 215C (sections 215A and 215B: appeals) is amended as follows.

50.2

In subsection (1), for “215A” substitute  “215ZA(3), 215A(3) or 215AA(2)” .

50.3

In subsection (2), for “215A” substitute  “215ZA(3), 215A(3) or 215AA(2)” .

50.4

In subsection (3), for “215A(2)(a)” substitute  “215ZA(2)(a), 215A(2)(a) or
215AA(2)(a) (as applicable)” .

50.5

In the heading, for “215A and” substitute  “215ZA to” .

51

In section 215D (proceeds of realisation), in subsection (1)(b), after
“section” insert  “215ZA or” .

52

For the italic heading before section 215, substitute  “Enforcement: money,
cryptoassets and personal property” .

53

In section 217 (powers of court and receiver etc), after subsection (2)
insert—

53.2A

Subsection (2)(a) does not apply to—

53.2A.a

the power conferred on a court by paragraph (e) of section 199(2) (which
enables the court to give a receiver the power to destroy cryptoassets),

53.2A.b

a power conferred on a receiver by virtue of that paragraph, or

53.2A.c

the power conferred on a magistrates’ court by section 215AA (power to order
destruction of cryptoassets).

###### Interpretation and miscellaneous provision

54

After section 232 insert—

########## Cryptoassets etc

54.232A

54.232A.1

“ Cryptoasset ” means a cryptographically secured digital representation of
value or contractual rights that uses a form of distributed ledger technology
and can be transferred, stored or traded electronically.

54.232A.2

“ Crypto wallet ” means—

54.232A.2.a

software,

54.232A.2.b

hardware,

54.232A.2.c

a physical item, or

54.232A.2.d

any combination of the things mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (c),

which is used to store the cryptographic private key that allows cryptoassets
to be accessed.

54.232A.3

“ Cryptoasset-related item ” has the meaning given in section 195C(5B).

54.232A.4

The circumstances in which a cryptoasset is taken to be “destroyed” include
circumstances where it is—

54.232A.4.a

disposed of,

54.232A.4.b

transferred, or

54.232A.4.c

otherwise dealt with,

in such a way as to ensure, or to make it virtually certain, that it will not
be the subject of any further transactions or be dealt with again in any other
way.

54.232A.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the definitions of
“cryptoasset” and “crypto wallet” in this section.

54.232A.6

The Secretary of State must consult the Department of Justice in Northern
Ireland before making regulations under subsection (5).

##### Regulations

55

55.1

Section 459 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 is amended as follows.

55.2

In subsection (4), after paragraph (a) insert—

55.2.azza

regulations under—

55.2.azza.i

section 67ZB(5) or 84A(5);

55.2.azza.ii

section 131ZC(5) or 150A(5);

55.2.azza.iii

section 251ZB(5) or 232A(5);

.

55.3

After subsection (6ZA) insert—

55.3.6ZAA

No regulations may be made by the Secretary of State under any of the
following provisions unless a draft of the regulations has been laid before
Parliament and approved by a resolution of each House--

55.3.6ZAA.a

section 67ZB(5) or 84A(5);

55.3.6ZAA.b

section 131ZC(5) or 150A(5);

55.3.6ZAA.c

section 251ZB(5) or 232A(5).

Cryptoassets: civil recovery

Section 180

##### Amendments of Part 5 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002

1

In Part 5 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (civil recovery of the proceeds
etc of unlawful conduct), after section 303Z19 insert—

######### Recovery of cryptoassets: searches, seizure and detention

########## Definitions

########### Definitions

1.303Z20

1.303Z20.1

In this Part—

1.303Z20.1.a

“ cryptoasset ” means a cryptographically secured digital representation of
value or contractual rights that uses a form of distributed ledger technology
and can be transferred, stored or traded electronically;

1.303Z20.1.b

“ crypto wallet ” means—

1.303Z20.1.b.i

software,

1.303Z20.1.b.ii

hardware,

1.303Z20.1.b.iii

a physical item, or

1.303Z20.1.b.iv

any combination of the things mentioned in sub-paragraphs  (i)  to  (iii) ,

which is used to store the cryptographic private key that allows cryptoassets
to be accessed.

1.303Z20.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the definitions of
“cryptoasset” and “crypto wallet” in this section.

1.303Z20.3

The Secretary of State must consult the Scottish Ministers and the Department
of Justice before making regulations under subsection  (2) .

1.303Z20.4

In this Chapter—

1.303Z20.4.a

“ enforcement officer ” means—

1.303Z20.4.a.i

an officer of Revenue and Customs,

1.303Z20.4.a.ii

a constable,

1.303Z20.4.a.iii

an SFO officer, or

1.303Z20.4.a.iv

an accredited financial investigator who falls within a description specified
in an order made for the purposes of this Chapter by the Secretary of State or
the Welsh Ministers under section 453;

1.303Z20.4.b

“ senior officer ” means—

1.303Z20.4.b.i

an officer of Revenue and Customs of a rank designated by the Commissioners
for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs as equivalent to that of a senior police
officer of at least the rank of inspector,

1.303Z20.4.b.ii

a senior police officer of at least the rank of inspector,

1.303Z20.4.b.iii

the Director of the Serious Fraud Office,

1.303Z20.4.b.iv

the Director General of the National Crime Agency or any other National Crime
Agency officer authorised by the Director General (whether generally or
specifically) for this purpose, or

1.303Z20.4.b.v

an accredited financial investigator who falls within a description specified
in an order made for the purposes of this Chapter by the Secretary of State or
the Welsh Ministers under section 453.

########## Searches

########### Searches

1.303Z21

1.303Z21.1

If an enforcement officer—

1.303Z21.1.a

is lawfully on any premises, and

1.303Z21.1.b

has reasonable grounds for suspecting that there is on the premises a
cryptoasset-related item,

the enforcement officer may search for the cryptoasset-related item there.

1.303Z21.2

For the purposes of this Chapter, a “cryptoasset-related item” is an item of
property that is, or that contains or gives access to information that is,
likely to assist in the seizure under this Part of cryptoassets that—

1.303Z21.2.a

are recoverable property, or

1.303Z21.2.b

are intended by any person for use in unlawful conduct.

1.303Z21.3

The powers conferred by subsection  (6)  are exercisable by an enforcement
officer if—

1.303Z21.3.a

the enforcement officer has reasonable grounds for suspecting that there is a
cryptoasset-related item in a vehicle,

1.303Z21.3.b

it appears to the officer that the vehicle is under the control of a person
(the suspect) who is in or in the vicinity of the vehicle, and

1.303Z21.3.c

the vehicle is in a place falling within subsection  (4) .

1.303Z21.4

The places referred to in subsection  (3)(c)  are—

1.303Z21.4.a

a place to which, at the time of the proposed exercise of the powers, the
public or any section of the public has access, on payment or otherwise, as of
right or by virtue of express or implied permission, and

1.303Z21.4.b

any other place to which at that time people have ready access but which is
not a dwelling.

1.303Z21.5

But if the vehicle is in a garden or yard or other land occupied with and used
for the purposes of a dwelling, the enforcement officer may exercise the
powers conferred by subsection  (6)  only if the enforcement officer has
reasonable grounds for believing—

1.303Z21.5.a

that the suspect does not reside in the dwelling, and

1.303Z21.5.b

that the vehicle is not in the place in question with the express or implied
permission of a person who resides in the dwelling.

1.303Z21.6

The powers conferred by this subsection are—

1.303Z21.6.a

power to require the suspect to permit entry to the vehicle;

1.303Z21.6.b

power to require the suspect to permit a search of the vehicle.

1.303Z21.7

If an enforcement officer has reasonable grounds for suspecting that a person
(the suspect) is carrying a cryptoasset-related item, the enforcement officer
may require the suspect—

1.303Z21.7.a

to permit a search of any article the suspect has with them;

1.303Z21.7.b

to permit a search of the suspect’s person.

1.303Z21.8

The powers conferred by subsections  (6)  and  (7)  are exercisable only so
far as the enforcement officer thinks it necessary or expedient.

1.303Z21.9

An enforcement officer may—

1.303Z21.9.a

in exercising powers conferred by subsection  (6) , detain the vehicle for so
long as is necessary for their exercise;

1.303Z21.9.b

in exercising powers conferred by subsection  (7)(b) , detain the suspect for
so long as is necessary for their exercise.

1.303Z21.10

The powers conferred by this section are exercisable by an SFO officer or an
accredited financial investigator only in relation to the following—

1.303Z21.10.a

premises in England, Wales or Northern Ireland (in the case of subsection  (1)
);

1.303Z21.10.b

vehicles and suspects in England, Wales or Northern Ireland (in the case of
subsection  (6) );

1.303Z21.10.c

suspects in England, Wales or Northern Ireland (in the case of subsection  (7)
).

########### Searches: supplemental provision

1.303Z22

1.303Z22.1

The powers conferred by section  303Z21  are exercisable only so far as
reasonably required for the purpose of finding a cryptoasset-related item.

1.303Z22.2

Section  303Z21  does not require a person to submit to an intimate search or
strip search (within the meaning of section 164 of the Customs and Excise
Management Act 1979).

########### Prior approval

1.303Z23

1.303Z23.1

The powers conferred by section  303Z21  may be exercised only with the
appropriate approval unless, in the circumstances, it is not practicable to
obtain that approval before exercising the power.

1.303Z23.2

The appropriate approval means the approval of a judicial officer or (if that
is not practicable in any case) the approval of a senior officer.

1.303Z23.3

A judicial officer means—

1.303Z23.3.a

in relation to England and Wales and Northern Ireland, a justice of the peace;

1.303Z23.3.b

in relation to Scotland, the sheriff.

1.303Z23.4

If the powers are exercised without the approval of a judicial officer in a
case where—

1.303Z23.4.a

no property is seized by virtue of section  303Z26 , or

1.303Z23.4.b

any property so seized is not detained for more than 48 hours (calculated in
accordance with section  303Z27 ),

the relevant officer who exercised the power must give a written report to the
appointed person.

1.303Z23.5

But the duty in subsection  (4)  does not apply if, during the course of
exercising the powers conferred by section  303Z21 , the enforcement officer
seizes cash by virtue of section 294 or property by virtue of section 303J and
the cash or property so seized is detained for more than 48 hours (calculated
in accordance with section 295(1B) or 303K(5)).

1.303Z23.6

A report under subsection  (4)  must give particulars of the circumstances
which led the relevant officer to believe that—

1.303Z23.6.a

the powers were exercisable, and

1.303Z23.6.b

it was not practicable to obtain the approval of a judicial officer.

1.303Z23.7

In this section and in section  303Z24  the appointed person means—

1.303Z23.7.a

in relation to England and Wales, a person appointed by the Secretary of
State;

1.303Z23.7.b

in relation to Scotland, a person appointed by the Scottish Ministers;

1.303Z23.7.c

in relation to Northern Ireland, a person appointed by the Department of
Justice.

1.303Z23.8

The appointed person must not be a person employed under or for the purposes
of a government department or of the Scottish Administration; and the terms
and conditions of the person’s appointment, including any remuneration or
expenses to be paid to the person, are to be determined by the person making
the appointment.

########### Report on exercise of powers

1.303Z24

1.303Z24.1

As soon as possible after the end of each financial year, the appointed person
must prepare a report for that year.

1.303Z24.2

“ Financial year ” means—

1.303Z24.2.a

the period beginning with the day on which this section came into force and
ending with the next 31 March (which is the first financial year), and

1.303Z24.2.b

each subsequent period of 12 months beginning with 1 April.

1.303Z24.3

The report must give the appointed person’s opinion as to the circumstances
and manner in which the powers conferred by section  303Z21  are being
exercised in cases where the enforcement officer who exercised them is
required to give a report under section  303Z23 (4) .

1.303Z24.4

In the report, the appointed person may make any recommendations they consider
appropriate.

1.303Z24.5

The appointed person must send a copy of the report to whichever of the
Secretary of State, the Scottish Ministers or the Department of Justice
appointed the person.

1.303Z24.6

The Secretary of State must lay a copy of any report the Secretary of State
receives under this section before Parliament and arrange for it to be
published.

1.303Z24.7

The Scottish Ministers must lay a copy of any report they receive under this
section before the Scottish Parliament and arrange for it to be published.

1.303Z24.8

The Department of Justice must lay a copy of any report it receives under this
section before the Northern Ireland Assembly and arrange for it to be
published.

1.303Z24.9

Section 41(3) of the Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954 applies for
the purposes of subsection  (8)  in relation to the laying of a copy of a
report as it applies in relation to the laying of a statutory document under
an enactment.

########### Codes of practice

1.303Z25

1.303Z25.1

The requirements to make codes of practice set out in sections 303G, 303H and
303I apply in relation to the powers conferred by section  303Z21  as they
apply in relation to the powers conferred by section 303C.

1.303Z25.2

A requirement in section 303G(2), 303H(2) or 303I(2), as applied by subsection
(1), to carry out a relevant action may be satisfied by the carrying out of
that action before this section comes into force.

1.303Z25.3

In subsection  (2)  “ relevant action ” means any of the following—

1.303Z25.3.a

publishing a draft code of practice;

1.303Z25.3.b

considering any representations made about the draft;

1.303Z25.3.c

modifying the draft in light of any such representations.

1.303Z25.4

The requirement in section 303G(3), as applied by subsection (1), to consult
the Attorney General may be satisfied by consultation carried out before this
section comes into force.

########## Seizure and detention of cryptoasset-related items

########### Seizure of cryptoasset-related items

1.303Z26

1.303Z26.1

An enforcement officer may seize any item of property if the enforcement
officer has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the item is a cryptoasset-
related item.

1.303Z26.2

If an enforcement officer is lawfully on any premises, the officer may, for
the purpose of—

1.303Z26.2.a

determining whether any property is a cryptoasset-related item, or

1.303Z26.2.b

enabling or facilitating the seizure under this Chapter of any cryptoasset,

require any information which is stored in any electronic form and accessible
from the premises to be produced in a form in which it can be taken away and
in which it is visible and legible, or from which it can readily be produced
in a visible and legible form.

1.303Z26.3

But subsection  (2)  does not authorise an enforcement officer to require a
person to produce privileged information.

1.303Z26.4

In this section “ privileged information ” means information which a person
would be entitled to refuse to provide—

1.303Z26.4.a

in England and Wales and Northern Ireland, on grounds of legal professional
privilege in proceedings in the High Court;

1.303Z26.4.b

in Scotland, on grounds of legal privilege as defined by section 412.

1.303Z26.5

Where an enforcement officer has seized a cryptoasset-related item under
subsection  (1) , the officer may use any information obtained from the item
for the purpose of—

1.303Z26.5.a

identifying or gaining access to a crypto wallet, and

1.303Z26.5.b

by doing so, enabling or facilitating the seizure under this Chapter of any
cryptoassets.

1.303Z26.6

This section does not authorise the seizure by an SFO officer or an accredited
financial investigator of an item found in Scotland.

########### Initial detention of seized cryptoasset-related items

1.303Z27

1.303Z27.1

Property seized under section  303Z26  may be detained for an initial period
of 48 hours.

1.303Z27.2

Subsection  (1)  authorises the detention of property only for so long as an
enforcement officer continues to have reasonable grounds for suspicion in
relation to that property as described in section  303Z26 (1) .

1.303Z27.3

In calculating a period of 48 hours for the purposes of this section, no
account is to be taken of—

1.303Z27.3.a

any Saturday or Sunday,

1.303Z27.3.b

Christmas Day,

1.303Z27.3.c

Good Friday,

1.303Z27.3.d

any day that is a bank holiday under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act
1971 in the part of the United Kingdom within which the property is seized, or

1.303Z27.3.e

any day prescribed by virtue of section 8(2) of the Criminal Procedure
(Scotland) Act 1995 as a court holiday in a sheriff court in the sheriff court
district within which the property is seized.

########### Further detention of seized cryptoasset-related items

1.303Z28

1.303Z28.1

The period for which property seized under section  303Z26  may be detained
may be extended by an order made—

1.303Z28.1.a

in England and Wales or Northern Ireland, by a magistrates’ court;

1.303Z28.1.b

in Scotland, by the sheriff.

1.303Z28.2

An order under subsection  (1)  may not authorise the detention of any
property—

1.303Z28.2.a

beyond the end of the period of 6 months beginning with the date of the order,
and

1.303Z28.2.b

in the case of any further order under this section, beyond the end of the
period of 2 years beginning with the date of the first order; but this is
subject to subsection  (4) .

1.303Z28.3

A justice of the peace may also exercise the power of a magistrates’ court to
make the first order under subsection  (1) .

1.303Z28.4

The court or sheriff may make an order for the period of 2 years in subsection
(2)(b)  to be extended to a period of up to 3 years beginning with the date of
the first order.

1.303Z28.5

An application for an order under subsection  (1)  or  (4)  may be made—

1.303Z28.5.a

in relation to England and Wales and Northern Ireland, by—

1.303Z28.5.a.i

the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs,

1.303Z28.5.a.ii

a constable,

1.303Z28.5.a.iii

an SFO officer, or

1.303Z28.5.a.iv

an accredited financial investigator who falls within a description specified
in an order made for the purposes of this Chapter by the Secretary of State or
the Welsh Ministers under section 453;

1.303Z28.5.b

in relation to Scotland, by the Scottish Ministers in connection with their
functions under section  303Z41  or by a procurator fiscal.

1.303Z28.6

The court, sheriff or justice may make an order under subsection  (1)  if
satisfied, in relation to the item of property to be further detained, that—

1.303Z28.6.a

there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that it is a cryptoasset-related
item, and

1.303Z28.6.b

its continued detention is justified.

1.303Z28.7

The court or sheriff may make an order under subsection  (4)  if satisfied
that a request for assistance is outstanding in relation to the item of
property to be further detained.

1.303Z28.8

A “request for assistance” in subsection  (7)  means a request for assistance
in obtaining evidence (including information in any form or article) in
connection with the property to be further detained, made—

1.303Z28.8.a

by a judicial authority in the United Kingdom under section 7 of the Crime
(International Co-operation) Act 2003,

1.303Z28.8.b

by an enforcement officer, to an authority exercising equivalent functions in
a foreign country,

1.303Z28.8.c

by the Scottish Ministers in connection with their functions under this Part,
to an authority exercising equivalent functions in a foreign country, or

1.303Z28.8.d

by a person under section 375A or 408A (evidence overseas).

1.303Z28.9

An order under subsection  (1)  must provide for notice to be given to persons
affected by the order.

########### Seizure of cryptoassets

1.303Z29

1.303Z29.1

An enforcement officer may seize cryptoassets if the enforcement officer has
reasonable grounds for suspecting that the cryptoassets are recoverable
property or intended by any person for use in unlawful conduct.

1.303Z29.2

The circumstances in which a cryptoasset is “ seized ” for the purposes of
subsection  (1)  include circumstances in which it is transferred into a
crypto wallet controlled by the enforcement officer.

1.303Z29.3

This section does not authorise the seizure by an SFO officer or an accredited
financial investigator of cryptoassets as a result of information obtained
from a cryptoasset-related item found in Scotland.

########### Prior authorisation for detention of cryptoassets

1.303Z30

1.303Z30.1

Where an order is made under section  303Z28  in respect of a cryptoasset-
related item, the court, sheriff or justice making the order may, at the same
time, make an order to authorise the detention of any cryptoassets that may be
seized as a result of information obtained from that item.

1.303Z30.2

An application for an order under this section may be made, by a person
mentioned in section  303Z28 (5) , at the same time as an application for an
order under section  303Z28  is made by that person.

1.303Z30.3

The court, sheriff or justice may make an order under this section if
satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the
cryptoassets that may be seized are recoverable property or intended by any
person for use in unlawful conduct.

1.303Z30.4

An order under this section authorises detention of the cryptoassets for the
same period of time as the order under section  303Z28  authorises detention
in respect of the cryptoasset-related item to which those cryptoassets relate.

########### Initial detention of seized cryptoassets

1.303Z31

1.303Z31.1

Cryptoassets seized under section  303Z29  may be detained for an initial
period of 48 hours.

1.303Z31.2

Subsection  (1)  authorises the detention of property only for so long as an
enforcement officer continues to have reasonable grounds for suspicion in
relation to those cryptoassets as described in section  303Z29 (1) .

1.303Z31.3

In calculating a period of 48 hours for the purposes of this section, no
account is to be taken of—

1.303Z31.3.a

any Saturday or Sunday,

1.303Z31.3.b

Christmas Day,

1.303Z31.3.c

Good Friday,

1.303Z31.3.d

any day that is a bank holiday under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act
1971 in the part of the United Kingdom within which the property is seized, or

1.303Z31.3.e

any day prescribed by virtue of section 8(2) of the Criminal Procedure
(Scotland) Act 1995 as a court holiday in a sheriff court in the sheriff court
district within which the property is seized.

1.303Z31.4

This section is subject to section  303Z30 .

########### Further detention of seized cryptoassets

1.303Z32

1.303Z32.1

The period for which cryptoassets seized under section  303Z29  may be
detained may be extended by an order made—

1.303Z32.1.a

in England and Wales or Northern Ireland, by a magistrates’ court;

1.303Z32.1.b

in Scotland, by the sheriff.

1.303Z32.2

An order under subsection  (1)  may not authorise the detention of any
cryptoassets—

1.303Z32.2.a

beyond the end of the period of 6 months beginning with the date of the order,
and

1.303Z32.2.b

in the case of any further order under this section, beyond the end of the
period of 2 years beginning with the date of the first order; but this is
subject to subsection  (4) .

1.303Z32.3

A justice of the peace may also exercise the power of a magistrates’ court to
make the first order under subsection  (1) .

1.303Z32.4

The court or sheriff may make an order for the period of 2 years in subsection
(2)(b)  to be extended to a period of up to 3 years beginning with the date of
the first order.

1.303Z32.5

An application for an order under subsection  (1)  or  (4)  may be made—

1.303Z32.5.a

in relation to England and Wales and Northern Ireland, by—

1.303Z32.5.a.i

the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs,

1.303Z32.5.a.ii

a constable,

1.303Z32.5.a.iii

an SFO officer, or

1.303Z32.5.a.iv

an accredited financial investigator who falls within a description specified
in an order made for the purposes of this Chapter by the Secretary of State or
the Welsh Ministers under section 453,

1.303Z32.5.b

in relation to Scotland, by the Scottish Ministers in connection with their
functions under section  303Z41  or by a procurator fiscal.

1.303Z32.6

The court, sheriff or justice may make an order under subsection  (1)  if
satisfied, in relation to the cryptoassets to be further detained, that there
are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the cryptoassets are recoverable
property or intended by any person for use in unlawful conduct.

1.303Z32.7

The court or sheriff may make an order under subsection  (4)  if satisfied
that a request for assistance is outstanding in relation to the cryptoassets
to be further detained.

1.303Z32.8

A “request for assistance” in subsection  (7)  means a request for assistance
in obtaining evidence (including information in any form or article) in
connection with the cryptoassets to be further detained, made—

1.303Z32.8.a

by a judicial authority in the United Kingdom under section 7 of the Crime
(International Co-operation) Act 2003,

1.303Z32.8.b

by an enforcement officer, to an authority exercising equivalent functions in
a foreign country,

1.303Z32.8.c

by the Scottish Ministers in connection with their functions under this Part,
to an authority exercising equivalent functions in a foreign country, or

1.303Z32.8.d

by a person under section 375A or 408A (evidence overseas).

1.303Z32.9

An order under subsection  (1)  must provide for notice to be given to persons
affected by the order.

########### Safekeeping of cryptoassets and cryptoasset-related items

1.303Z33

1.303Z33.1

An enforcement officer must arrange for any item of property seized under
section  303Z26  to be safely stored throughout the period during which it is
detained under this Chapter.

1.303Z33.2

An enforcement officer must arrange for any cryptoassets seized under section
303Z29  to be safely stored throughout the period during which they are
detained under this Chapter.

########### Release of cryptoassets and cryptoasset-related items

1.303Z34

1.303Z34.1

This section applies while any cryptoasset or other item of property is
detained under this Chapter.

1.303Z34.2

A magistrates’ court or (in Scotland) the sheriff may direct the release of
the whole or any part of the property if the following condition is met.

1.303Z34.3

The condition is that the court or sheriff is satisfied, on an application by
the person from whom the property was seized, that the conditions for the
detention of the property in this Chapter are no longer met in relation to the
property to be released.

1.303Z34.4

A person within subsection  (5)  may, after notifying the magistrates’ court,
sheriff or justice under whose order property is being detained, release the
whole or any part of the property if satisfied that the detention of the
property to be released is no longer justified.

1.303Z34.5

The following persons are within this subsection—

1.303Z34.5.a

in relation to England and Wales and Northern Ireland, an enforcement officer;

1.303Z34.5.b

in relation to Scotland—

1.303Z34.5.b.i

the Scottish Ministers,

1.303Z34.5.b.ii

an officer of Revenue and Customs,

1.303Z34.5.b.iii

a constable, and

1.303Z34.5.b.iv

a procurator fiscal.

1.303Z34.6

If any cryptoasset-related item which has been released is not claimed within
the period of a year beginning with the date on which it was released, an
enforcement officer may—

1.303Z34.6.a

retain the item and deal with it as they see fit,

1.303Z34.6.b

dispose of the item, or

1.303Z34.6.c

destroy the item.

1.303Z34.7

The powers in subsection  (6)  may be exercised only—

1.303Z34.7.a

where the enforcement officer has taken reasonable steps to notify—

1.303Z34.7.a.i

the person from whom the item was seized, and

1.303Z34.7.a.ii

any other persons who the enforcement officer has reasonable grounds to
believe have an interest in the item,

that the item has been released, and

1.303Z34.7.b

with the approval of a senior officer.

1.303Z34.8

Any proceeds of a disposal of the item are to be paid—

1.303Z34.8.a

into the Consolidated Fund if—

1.303Z34.8.a.i

the item was directed to be released by a magistrates’ court, or

1.303Z34.8.a.ii

a magistrates’ court or justice was notified under subsection  (4)  of the
release;

1.303Z34.8.b

into the Scottish Consolidated Fund if—

1.303Z34.8.b.i

the item was directed to be released by the sheriff, or

1.303Z34.8.b.ii

the sheriff was notified under subsection  (4)  of the release.

######### Recovery of cryptoassets: freezing orders

########## Definitions

########### Definitions

1.303Z35

1.303Z35.1

In this Chapter—

1.303Z35.1.a

“ cryptoasset exchange provider ” means a firm or sole practitioner who by way
of business provides one or more of the following services, including where
the firm or sole practitioner does so as creator or issuer of any of the
cryptoassets involved—

1.303Z35.1.a.i

exchanging, or arranging or making arrangements with a view to the exchange
of, cryptoassets for money or money for cryptoassets,

1.303Z35.1.a.ii

exchanging, or arranging or making arrangements with a view to the exchange
of, one cryptoasset for another, or

1.303Z35.1.a.iii

operating a machine which utilises automated processes to exchange
cryptoassets for money or money for cryptoassets;

1.303Z35.1.b

“ custodian wallet provider ” means a firm or sole practitioner who by way of
business provides services to safeguard, or to safeguard and administer—

1.303Z35.1.b.i

cryptoassets on behalf of its customers, or

1.303Z35.1.b.ii

private cryptographic keys on behalf of its customers in order to hold, store
and transfer cryptoassets;

1.303Z35.1.c

“ cryptoasset service provider ” includes cryptoasset exchange provider and
custodian wallet provider.

1.303Z35.2

For the purposes of subsection  (1)(a) , “ money ” means—

1.303Z35.2.a

money in sterling,

1.303Z35.2.b

money in any other currency, or

1.303Z35.2.c

money in any other medium of exchange,

but does not include a cryptoasset.

1.303Z35.3

In the definition of “cryptoasset exchange provider” in subsection  (1) , “
cryptoasset ” includes a right to, or interest in, a cryptoasset.

1.303Z35.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the definitions in this
section.

1.303Z35.5

The Secretary of State must consult the Scottish Ministers and the Department
of Justice before making regulations under subsection  (4) .

########## Freezing of crypto wallets

########### Application for crypto wallet freezing order

1.303Z36

1.303Z36.1

This section applies if an enforcement officer has reasonable grounds for
suspecting that cryptoassets held in a crypto wallet administered by a UK-
connected cryptoasset service provider—

1.303Z36.1.a

are recoverable property, or

1.303Z36.1.b

are intended by any person for use in unlawful conduct.

1.303Z36.2

Where this section applies (but subject to subsection  (3) ) the enforcement
officer may apply to the relevant court for a crypto wallet freezing order in
relation to the crypto wallet in which the cryptoassets are held.

1.303Z36.3

An enforcement officer may not apply for a crypto wallet freezing order unless
the officer is a senior officer or is authorised to do so by a senior officer.

1.303Z36.4

For the purposes of this Chapter—

1.303Z36.4.a

a crypto wallet freezing order is an order that, subject to any exclusions
(see section  303Z39 ), prohibits each person by or for whom the crypto wallet
to which the order applies is administered from—

1.303Z36.4.a.i

making withdrawals or payments from the crypto wallet, or

1.303Z36.4.a.ii

using the crypto wallet in any other way;

1.303Z36.4.b

a crypto wallet is administered by or for a person if the person is the person
to whom services are being provided by a cryptoasset service provider in
relation to that crypto wallet.

1.303Z36.5

An application for a crypto wallet freezing order may be made without notice
if the circumstances of the case are such that notice of the application would
prejudice the taking of any steps under this Part to forfeit cryptoassets that
are recoverable property or intended by any person for use in unlawful
conduct.

1.303Z36.6

An application for a crypto wallet freezing order under this section may be
combined with an application for an account freezing order under section 303Z1
where a single entity—

1.303Z36.6.a

is both a relevant financial institution for the purposes of section 303Z1 and
a cryptoasset service provider for the purposes of this section, and

1.303Z36.6.b

operates or administers, for the same person, both an account holding money
(above the minimum amount specified in section 303Z8) and a crypto wallet.

1.303Z36.7

An application for a crypto wallet freezing order may not be made by an SFO
officer, or an accredited financial investigator, in relation to a UK-
connected cryptoasset service provider where—

1.303Z36.7.a

the provider has its registered office, or if it does not have one, its head
office in Scotland, and

1.303Z36.7.b

the day-to-day management of the provider’s business is the responsibility of
that office or another establishment maintained by it in Scotland.

1.303Z36.8

In this Chapter—

“ enforcement officer ” has the meaning given by section  303Z20 ; “ relevant
court ” means— in England and Wales and Northern Ireland, a magistrates’
court, and in Scotland, the sheriff; “ senior officer ” has the meaning given
by section  303Z20 ; “ UK-connected cryptoasset service provider ” means a
cryptoasset service provider which— is acting in the course of business
carried on by it in the United Kingdom, has terms and conditions with the
persons to whom it provides services which provide for a legal dispute to be
litigated in the courts of a part of the United Kingdom, holds, in the United
Kingdom, any data relating to the persons to whom it provides services, or
meets the condition in subsection  (9) .

1.303Z36.9

The condition in this subsection is that—

1.303Z36.9.a

the cryptoasset service provider has its registered office, or if it does not
have one, its head office in the United Kingdom, and

1.303Z36.9.b

the day-to-day management of the provider’s business is the responsibility of
that office or another establishment maintained by it in the United Kingdom.

########### Making of a crypto wallet freezing order

1.303Z37

1.303Z37.1

This section applies where an application for a crypto wallet freezing order
is made under section  303Z36  in relation to a crypto wallet.

1.303Z37.2

The relevant court may make the order if satisfied that there are reasonable
grounds for suspecting that some or all of the cryptoassets held in the crypto
wallet—

1.303Z37.2.a

are recoverable property, or

1.303Z37.2.b

are intended by any person for use in unlawful conduct.

1.303Z37.3

A crypto wallet freezing order ceases to have effect at the end of the period
specified in the order (which may be varied under section  303Z38 ) unless it
ceases to have effect at an earlier or later time in accordance with this
Chapter or Chapter 3E or 3F.

1.303Z37.4

The period specified by the relevant court for the purposes of subsection  (3)
(whether when the order is first made or on a variation under section  303Z38
) may not exceed the period of 2 years, beginning with the day on which the
crypto wallet freezing order is (or was) made; but this is subject to
subsection  (5) .

1.303Z37.5

The relevant court may make an order for the period of 2 years in subsection
(4)  to be extended to a period of up to 3 years beginning with the day on
which the crypto wallet freezing order is (or was) made.

1.303Z37.6

The relevant court may make an order under subsection  (5)  if satisfied that
a request for assistance is outstanding in relation to some or all of the
cryptoassets held in the crypto wallet.

1.303Z37.7

A “request for assistance” in subsection  (6)  means a request for assistance
in obtaining evidence (including information in any form or article) in
connection with some or all of the cryptoassets held in the crypto wallet,
made—

1.303Z37.7.a

by a judicial authority in the United Kingdom under section 7 of the Crime
(International Co-operation) Act 2003,

1.303Z37.7.b

by an enforcement officer, to an authority exercising equivalent functions in
a foreign country,

1.303Z37.7.c

by the Scottish Ministers in connection with their functions under this Part,
to an authority exercising equivalent functions in a foreign country, or

1.303Z37.7.d

by a person under section 375A or 408A (evidence overseas).

1.303Z37.8

A crypto wallet freezing order must provide for notice to be given to persons
affected by the order.

########### Variation and setting aside of crypto wallet freezing order

1.303Z38

1.303Z38.1

The relevant court may at any time vary or set aside a crypto wallet freezing
order on an application made by—

1.303Z38.1.a

an enforcement officer, or

1.303Z38.1.b

any person affected by the order.

1.303Z38.2

But an enforcement officer may not make an application under subsection  (1)
unless the officer is a senior officer or is authorised to do so by a senior
officer.

1.303Z38.3

Before varying or setting aside a crypto wallet freezing order the court must
(as well as giving the parties to the proceedings an opportunity to be heard)
give such an opportunity to any person who may be affected by its decision.

1.303Z38.4

In relation to Scotland, the references in this section to setting aside an
order are to be read as references to recalling it.

########### Exclusions

1.303Z39

1.303Z39.1

The power to vary a crypto wallet freezing order includes (amongst other
things) power to make exclusions from the prohibition on making withdrawals or
payments from the crypto wallet to which the order applies.

1.303Z39.2

Exclusions from the prohibition may also be made when the order is made.

1.303Z39.3

An exclusion may (amongst other things) make provision for the purpose of
enabling a person by or for whom the crypto wallet is administered—

1.303Z39.3.a

to meet the person’s reasonable living expenses, or

1.303Z39.3.b

to carry on any trade, business, profession or occupation.

1.303Z39.4

An exclusion may be made subject to conditions.

1.303Z39.5

Where a magistrates’ court exercises the power to make an exclusion for the
purpose of enabling a person to meet legal expenses that the person has
incurred, or may incur, in respect of proceedings under this Part, it must
ensure that the exclusion—

1.303Z39.5.a

is limited to reasonable legal expenses that the person has reasonably
incurred or that the person reasonably incurs,

1.303Z39.5.b

specifies the total amount that may be released for legal expenses in
pursuance of the exclusion, and

1.303Z39.5.c

is made subject to the same conditions as would be the required conditions
(see section 286A) if the order had been made under section 245A (in addition
to any conditions imposed under subsection  (4) ).

1.303Z39.6

A magistrates’ court, in deciding whether to make an exclusion for the purpose
of enabling a person to meet legal expenses in respect of proceedings under
this Part—

1.303Z39.6.a

must have regard to the desirability of the person being represented in any
proceedings under this Part in which the person is a participant, and

1.303Z39.6.b

must disregard the possibility that legal representation of the person in any
such proceedings might, were an exclusion not made—

1.303Z39.6.b.i

be made available under arrangements made for the purposes of Part 1 of the
Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012, or

1.303Z39.6.b.ii

be funded by the Department of Justice.

1.303Z39.7

The sheriff’s power to make exclusions may not be exercised for the purpose of
enabling any person to meet any legal expenses in respect of proceedings under
this Part.

1.303Z39.8

The power to make exclusions must, subject to subsection  (6) , be exercised
with a view to ensuring, so far as practicable, that there is not undue
prejudice to the taking of any steps under this Part to forfeit cryptoassets
that are recoverable property or intended by any person for use in unlawful
conduct.

########### Restrictions on proceedings and remedies

1.303Z40

1.303Z40.1

If a court in which proceedings are pending in respect of a crypto wallet
administered by a UK-connected cryptoasset service provider is satisfied that
a crypto wallet freezing order has been applied for or made in respect of the
crypto wallet, it may either stay the proceedings or allow them to continue on
any terms it thinks fit.

1.303Z40.2

Before exercising the power conferred by subsection  (1) , the court must (as
well as giving the parties to any of the proceedings concerned an opportunity
to be heard) give such an opportunity to any person who may be affected by the
court’s decision.

1.303Z40.3

In relation to Scotland, the reference in subsection  (1)  to staying the
proceedings is to be read as a reference to sisting the proceedings.

######### Forfeiture of cryptoassets following detention or freezing order

########## Forfeiture orders

########### Forfeiture order

1.303Z41

1.303Z41.1

This section applies—

1.303Z41.1.a

while any cryptoassets are detained under Chapter 3C, or

1.303Z41.1.b

while a crypto wallet freezing order made under section  303Z37  has effect.

1.303Z41.2

An application for the forfeiture of some or all of the cryptoassets that are
detained or held in the crypto wallet that is subject to the crypto wallet
freezing order may be made—

1.303Z41.2.a

to a magistrates’ court by a person within subsection  (3) , or

1.303Z41.2.b

to the sheriff by the Scottish Ministers.

1.303Z41.3

The following persons are within this subsection—

1.303Z41.3.a

the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs,

1.303Z41.3.b

a constable,

1.303Z41.3.c

an SFO officer, and

1.303Z41.3.d

an accredited financial investigator who falls within a description specified
in an order made for the purposes of this Chapter by the Secretary of State or
the Welsh Ministers under section 453.

1.303Z41.4

The court or sheriff may order the forfeiture of some or all of the
cryptoassets if satisfied that the cryptoassets—

1.303Z41.4.a

are recoverable property, or

1.303Z41.4.b

are intended by any person for use in unlawful conduct.

1.303Z41.5

An order under subsection  (4)  made by a magistrates’ court may provide for
payment under section  303Z49  of reasonable legal expenses that a person has
reasonably incurred, or may reasonably incur, in respect of—

1.303Z41.5.a

the proceedings in which the order is made, or

1.303Z41.5.b

any related proceedings under this Chapter.

1.303Z41.6

A sum in respect of a relevant item of expenditure is not payable under
section  303Z49  in pursuance of provision under subsection  (5)  unless—

1.303Z41.6.a

the person who applied for the order under subsection  (4)  agrees to its
payment, or

1.303Z41.6.b

the court has assessed the amount allowed in respect of that item and the sum
is paid in respect of the assessed amount.

1.303Z41.7

For the purposes of subsection  (6) —

1.303Z41.7.a

a “relevant item of expenditure” is an item of expenditure to which
regulations under section 286B would apply if the order under subsection  (4)
had instead been a recovery order;

1.303Z41.7.b

an amount is “allowed” in respect of a relevant item of expenditure if it
would have been allowed by those regulations;

1.303Z41.7.c

if the person who applied for the order under subsection  (4)  was a
constable, an SFO officer or an accredited financial investigator, that person
may not agree to the payment of a sum unless the person is a senior officer or
is authorised to do so by a senior officer.

1.303Z41.8

Subsection  (4)  ceases to apply on the transfer of an application made under
this section in accordance with section  303Z45 (1) .

1.303Z41.9

In this Chapter—

“ crypto wallet freezing order ” has the same meaning as in Chapter 3D (see
section  303Z36 ); “ enforcement officer ” has the meaning given by section
303Z20 ; “ senior officer ” has the meaning given by section  303Z20 .

1.303Z41.10

Section  303Z36 (4)(b)  applies in relation to this Chapter as it applies in
relation to Chapter 3D.

########### Forfeiture order: supplementary

1.303Z42

1.303Z42.1

Subsection  (2)  applies where an application is made under section  303Z41
for the forfeiture of any cryptoassets detained under Chapter 3C.

1.303Z42.2

The cryptoassets are to continue to be detained under Chapter 3C (and may not
be released under any power conferred by this Part) until any proceedings in
pursuance of the application (including any proceedings on appeal) are
concluded.

This subsection is subject to Chapter 3F (conversion to money).

1.303Z42.3

Where an application is made under section 303Z41 in relation to cryptoassets
held in a crypto wallet that is subject to a crypto wallet freezing order—

1.303Z42.3.a

subsections (4) and (5) apply, and

1.303Z42.3.b

the crypto wallet freezing order is to continue to have effect until the time
referred to in subsection (4)(b) or (5).

1.303Z42.4

Where the cryptoassets are ordered to be forfeited under section  303Z41 (4)
or  303Z45 (3) —

1.303Z42.4.a

the cryptoasset service provider that administers the crypto wallet must
transfer the cryptoassets into a crypto wallet nominated by an enforcement
officer, and

1.303Z42.4.b

immediately after the transfer has been made, the freezing order ceases to
have effect.

1.303Z42.5

Where the application is determined or otherwise disposed of other than by the
making of an order under section  303Z41 (4)  or  303Z45 (3) , the crypto
wallet freezing order ceases to have effect immediately after that
determination or other disposal.

1.303Z42.6

Subsections  (4) (b) and  (5)  are subject to section  303Z46  and Chapter 3F.

1.303Z42.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this section to make provision
about the forfeiture of cryptoassets held in a crypto wallet that is subject
to a crypto wallet freezing order.

1.303Z42.8

Regulations under subsection  (7)  may in particular make provision about—

1.303Z42.8.a

the process for the forfeiture of cryptoassets;

1.303Z42.8.b

the realisation of forfeited cryptoassets;

1.303Z42.8.c

the application of the proceeds of such realisation.

1.303Z42.9

Regulations under subsection  (7)  may make consequential amendments of this
Chapter.

1.303Z42.10

The Secretary of State may not make regulations under subsection  (7)  unless
the Secretary of State has—

1.303Z42.10.a

consulted the Scottish Ministers and the Department of Justice, and

1.303Z42.10.b

given a notice containing the relevant information to the Scottish Ministers
and the Department of Justice.

1.303Z42.11

Consultation under subsection  (10)(a)  must include consultation about any
effects that the Secretary of State considers the regulations may have on—

1.303Z42.11.a

a person in Scotland or Northern Ireland (as the case may be) applying for the
forfeiture of cryptoassets held in a crypto wallet that is subject to a crypto
wallet freezing order, and

1.303Z42.11.b

a sheriff or court in Scotland or a court in Northern Ireland (as the case may
be) considering such an application or making an order for such forfeiture.

1.303Z42.12

In subsection  (10)(b)  “ relevant information ” means—

1.303Z42.12.a

a description of—

1.303Z42.12.a.i

the process undertaken in order to comply with subsection  (10)(a)  in
relation to the Scottish Ministers or the Department of Justice (as the case
may be), and

1.303Z42.12.a.ii

any agreement, objection or other views expressed as part of that process by
the Scottish Ministers or the Department of Justice (as the case may be), and

1.303Z42.12.b

an explanation of whether and how such views have been taken into account in
the regulations (including, in a case where the Secretary of State proposes to
make the regulations despite an objection, an explanation of the reasons for
doing so).

########### Associated and joint property

1.303Z43

1.303Z43.1

Sections  303Z44  and  303Z45  apply if—

1.303Z43.1.a

an application is made under section  303Z41  in respect of cryptoassets,

1.303Z43.1.b

the court or sheriff is satisfied that some or all of the cryptoassets are
recoverable property or are intended by any person for use in unlawful
conduct, and

1.303Z43.1.c

there exists property that is associated with the cryptoassets in relation to
which the court or sheriff is satisfied as mentioned in paragraph (b).

1.303Z43.2

Sections  303Z44  and  303Z45  also apply in England and Wales and Northern
Ireland if—

1.303Z43.2.a

an application is made under section  303Z41  in respect of cryptoassets,

1.303Z43.2.b

the court is satisfied that some or all of the cryptoassets are recoverable
property, and

1.303Z43.2.c

the cryptoassets in relation to which the court is satisfied as mentioned in
paragraph  (b)  belong to joint tenants and one of the tenants is an excepted
joint owner.

1.303Z43.3

In this section and sections  303Z44  and  303Z45  “ associated property ”
means property of any of the following descriptions that is not itself the
forfeitable property—

1.303Z43.3.a

any interest in the forfeitable property;

1.303Z43.3.b

any other interest in the property in which the forfeitable property subsists;

1.303Z43.3.c

if the forfeitable property is part of a larger property, but not a separate
part, the remainder of that property.

References to property being associated with forfeitable property are to be
read accordingly.

1.303Z43.4

In this section and sections  303Z44  and  303Z45 , the “ forfeitable property
” means the cryptoassets in relation to which the court or sheriff is
satisfied as mentioned in subsection  (1)(b)  or  (2)(b)  (as the case may
be).

########### Agreements about associated and joint property

1.303Z44

1.303Z44.1

Where—

1.303Z44.1.a

this section applies, and

1.303Z44.1.b

the person who applied for the order under section  303Z41  (on the one hand)
and the person who holds the associated property or who is the excepted joint
owner (on the other hand) agree,

the magistrates’ court or sheriff may, instead of making an order under
section  303Z41 (4) , make an order requiring the person who holds the
associated property or who is the excepted joint owner to make a payment to a
person identified in the order.

1.303Z44.2

The amount of the payment is (subject to subsection  (3) ) to be the amount
which the persons referred to in subsection  (1)(b)  agree represents—

1.303Z44.2.a

in a case where this section applies by virtue of section  303Z43 (1) , the
value of the forfeitable property;

1.303Z44.2.b

in a case where this section applies by virtue of section  303Z43 (2) , the
value of the forfeitable property less the value of the excepted joint owner’s
share.

1.303Z44.3

The amount of the payment may be reduced if the person who applied for the
order under section  303Z41  agrees that the other party to the agreement has
suffered loss as a result of—

1.303Z44.3.a

the seizure of the forfeitable property under section  303Z29  and its
subsequent detention, or

1.303Z44.3.b

the making of a crypto wallet freezing order under section  303Z37 .

1.303Z44.4

The reduction that is permissible by virtue of subsection  (3)  is such amount
as the parties to the agreement agree is reasonable, having regard to the loss
suffered and any other relevant circumstances.

1.303Z44.5

An order under subsection  (1)  may, so far as required for giving effect to
the agreement, include provision for vesting, creating or extinguishing any
interest in property.

1.303Z44.6

An order under subsection  (1)  made by a magistrates’ court may provide for
payment under subsection  (12)  of reasonable legal expenses that a person has
reasonably incurred, or may reasonably incur, in respect of—

1.303Z44.6.a

the proceedings in which the order is made, or

1.303Z44.6.b

any related proceedings under this Chapter.

1.303Z44.7

A sum in respect of a relevant item of expenditure is not payable under
subsection  (12)  in pursuance of provision under subsection  (6)  unless—

1.303Z44.7.a

the person who applied for the order under section  303Z41  agrees to its
payment, or

1.303Z44.7.b

the court has assessed the amount allowed in respect of that item and the sum
is paid in respect of the assessed amount.

1.303Z44.8

For the purposes of subsection  (7) —

1.303Z44.8.a

a “relevant item of expenditure” is an item of expenditure to which
regulations under section 286B would apply if the order under subsection  (1)
had instead been a recovery order;

1.303Z44.8.b

an amount is “allowed” in respect of a relevant item of expenditure if it
would have been allowed by those regulations.

1.303Z44.9

For the purposes of section 308(2), on the making of an order under subsection
(1) , the forfeitable property is to be treated as if it had been forfeited.

1.303Z44.10

If there is more than one item of associated property or more than one
excepted joint owner, the total amount to be paid under subsection  (1) , and
the part of that amount which is to be provided by each person who holds any
such associated property or who is an excepted joint owner, is to be agreed
between both (or all) of them and the person who applied for the order under
section  303Z41 .

1.303Z44.11

If the person who applied for the order under section  303Z41  was a
constable, an SFO officer or an accredited financial investigator, that person
may enter into an agreement for the purposes of any provision of this section
only if the person is a senior officer or is authorised to do so by a senior
officer.

1.303Z44.12

An amount received under an order under subsection  (1)  must be applied as
follows—

1.303Z44.12.a

first, it must be applied in making any payment of legal expenses which, after
giving effect to subsection  (7) , are payable under this subsection in
pursuance of provision under subsection  (6) ;

1.303Z44.12.b

second, it must be applied in payment or reimbursement of any reasonable costs
incurred in storing or insuring the forfeitable property and any associated
property whilst detained under this Part;

1.303Z44.12.c

third, it must be paid—

1.303Z44.12.c.i

if the order was made by a magistrates’ court, into the Consolidated Fund;

1.303Z44.12.c.ii

if the order was made by the sheriff, into the Scottish Consolidated Fund.

########### Associated and joint property: default of agreement

1.303Z45

1.303Z45.1

Where this section applies and there is no agreement under section  303Z44 ,
the magistrates’ court or sheriff may transfer the application made under
section  303Z41  to the appropriate court.

1.303Z45.2

The “appropriate court” is—

1.303Z45.2.a

the High Court, where the application under section  303Z41  was made to a
magistrates’ court;

1.303Z45.2.b

the Court of Session, where the application under section  303Z41  was made to
the sheriff.

1.303Z45.3

Where (under subsection  (1) ) an application made under section  303Z41  is
transferred to the appropriate court, the appropriate court may order the
forfeiture of the property to which the application relates, or any part of
that property, if satisfied that what is to be forfeited is recoverable
property or intended by any person for use in unlawful conduct.

1.303Z45.4

An order under subsection  (3)  made by the High Court may include provision
of the type that may be included in an order under section  303Z41 (4)  made
by a magistrates’ court by virtue of section  303Z41 (5) .

1.303Z45.5

If provision is included in an order of the High Court by virtue of subsection
(4)  of this section, section  303Z41 (6)  and  (7)  apply with the necessary
modifications.

1.303Z45.6

The appropriate court may, as well as making an order under subsection  (3) ,
make an order—

1.303Z45.6.a

providing for the forfeiture of the associated property or (as the case may
be) for the excepted joint owner‘s interest to be extinguished, or

1.303Z45.6.b

providing for the excepted joint owner‘s interest to be severed.

1.303Z45.7

Where (under subsection  (1) ) the magistrates’ court or sheriff decides not
to transfer an application made under section  303Z41  to the appropriate
court, the magistrates’ court or sheriff may, as well as making an order under
section  303Z41 (4) , make an order—

1.303Z45.7.a

providing for the forfeiture of the associated property or (as the case may
be) for the excepted joint owner‘s interest to be extinguished, or

1.303Z45.7.b

providing for the excepted joint owner‘s interest to be severed.

1.303Z45.8

An order under subsection  (6)  or  (7)  may be made only if the appropriate
court, the magistrates’ court or the sheriff (as the case may be) thinks it
just and equitable to do so.

1.303Z45.9

An order under subsection  (6)  or  (7)  must provide for the payment of an
amount to the person who holds the associated property or who is an excepted
joint owner.

1.303Z45.10

In making an order under subsection  (6)  or  (7) , and including provision in
it by virtue of subsection  (9) , the appropriate court, the magistrates’
court or the sheriff (as the case may be) must have regard to—

1.303Z45.10.a

the rights of any person who holds the associated property or who is an
excepted joint owner and the value to that person of that property or (as the
case may be) of that person‘s share (including any value that cannot be
assessed in terms of money), and

1.303Z45.10.b

the interest of the person who applied for the order under section  303Z41  in
realising the value of the forfeitable property.

1.303Z45.11

If the appropriate court, the magistrates’ court or the sheriff (as the case
may be) is satisfied that—

1.303Z45.11.a

the person who holds the associated property or who is an excepted joint owner
has suffered loss as a result of—

1.303Z45.11.a.i

the seizure of the forfeitable property under section  303Z29  and its
subsequent detention, or

1.303Z45.11.a.ii

the making of the crypto wallet freezing order under section  303Z37 , and

1.303Z45.11.b

the circumstances are exceptional,

an order under subsection  (6)  or  (7)  may require the payment of
compensation to that person.

1.303Z45.12

The amount of compensation to be paid by virtue of subsection  (11)  is the
amount the appropriate court, the magistrates’ court or the sheriff (as the
case may be) thinks reasonable, having regard to the loss suffered and any
other relevant circumstances.

1.303Z45.13

Compensation to be paid by virtue of subsection  (11)  is to be paid in the
same way that compensation is to be paid under section  303Z52 .

########### Continuation of crypto wallet freezing order pending appeal

1.303Z46

1.303Z46.1

This section applies where, on an application under section  303Z41  in
relation to a crypto wallet to which a crypto wallet freezing order applies—

1.303Z46.1.a

the magistrates’ court or sheriff decides—

1.303Z46.1.a.i

to make an order under section 303Z41(4) in relation to some but not all of
the cryptoassets to which the application related, or

1.303Z46.1.a.ii

not to make an order under section 303Z41(4), or

1.303Z46.1.b

if the application is transferred in accordance with section 303Z45(1), the
High Court or Court of Session decides—

1.303Z46.1.b.i

to make an order under section 303Z45(3) in relation to some but not all of
the cryptoassets to which the application related, or

1.303Z46.1.b.ii

not to make an order under section 303Z45(3).

1.303Z46.2

The person who made the application under section  303Z41  may apply without
notice to the court or sheriff that made the decision referred to in
subsection (1) for an order that the crypto wallet freezing order is to
continue to have effect.

1.303Z46.3

Where the court or sheriff makes an order under subsection  (2)  the crypto
wallet freezing order is to continue to have effect until—

1.303Z46.3.a

the end of the period of 48 hours starting with the making of the order under
subsection  (2) , or

1.303Z46.3.b

if within that period of 48 hours an appeal is brought (whether under section
303Z47  or otherwise) against the decision referred to in subsection (1), the
time when the appeal is determined or otherwise disposed of.

1.303Z46.4

Subsection  (3)  of section  303Z31  applies for the purposes of subsection
(3)  as it applies for the purposes of that section.

########### Sections 

1.303Z47

1.303Z47.1

Any party to proceedings for an order for the forfeiture of cryptoassets under
section  303Z41  may appeal against—

1.303Z47.1.a

the making of an order under section  303Z41 ;

1.303Z47.1.b

the making of an order under section  303Z45 (7) ;

1.303Z47.1.c

a decision not to make an order under section  303Z41  unless the reason that
no order was made is that an order was instead made under section  303Z44 ;

1.303Z47.1.d

a decision not to make an order under section  303Z45 (7) .

Paragraphs  (c)  and  (d)  do not apply if the application for the order under
section  303Z41  was transferred in accordance with section  303Z45 (1) .

1.303Z47.2

Where an order under section  303Z44  is made by a magistrates’ court, any
party to the proceedings for the order (including any party to the proceedings
under section  303Z41  that preceded the making of the order) may appeal
against a decision to include, or not to include, provision in the order under
section  303Z44 (6) .

1.303Z47.3

An appeal under this section lies—

1.303Z47.3.a

in relation to England and Wales, to the Crown Court;

1.303Z47.3.b

in relation to Scotland, to the Sheriff Appeal Court;

1.303Z47.3.c

in relation to Northern Ireland, to a county court.

1.303Z47.4

An appeal under this section must be made before the end of the period of 30
days starting with the day on which the court or sheriff makes the order or
decision.

1.303Z47.5

The court hearing the appeal may make any order it thinks appropriate.

1.303Z47.6

If the court upholds an appeal against an order forfeiting any cryptoasset or
other item of property, it may order the release of the whole or any part of
the property.

########### Realisation or destruction of forfeited cryptoassets etc

1.303Z48

1.303Z48.1

This section applies where any cryptoasset or other item of property is
forfeited under this Chapter.

1.303Z48.2

An enforcement officer must—

1.303Z48.2.a

realise the property, or

1.303Z48.2.b

make arrangements for its realisation.

This is subject to subsections  (3)  to  (5) .

1.303Z48.3

The property is not to be realised—

1.303Z48.3.a

before the end of the period within which an appeal may be made (whether under
section  303Z47  or otherwise), or

1.303Z48.3.b

if an appeal is made within that period, before the appeal is determined or
otherwise disposed of.

1.303Z48.4

The realisation of property under subsection  (2)  must be carried out, so far
as practicable, in the manner best calculated to maximise the amount obtained
for the property.

1.303Z48.5

Where an enforcement officer is satisfied that—

1.303Z48.5.a

it is not reasonably practicable to realise any cryptoasset, or

1.303Z48.5.b

there are reasonable grounds to believe that the realisation of any
cryptoasset would be contrary to the public interest,

the enforcement officer may destroy the cryptoasset.

1.303Z48.6

But—

1.303Z48.6.a

the enforcement officer may destroy the cryptoasset only if the officer is a
senior officer or is authorised to do so by a senior officer, and

1.303Z48.6.b

the cryptoasset is not to be destroyed—

1.303Z48.6.b.i

before the end of the period within which an appeal may be made (whether under
section  303Z47  or otherwise), or

1.303Z48.6.b.ii

if an appeal is made within that period, before the appeal is determined or
otherwise disposed of.

1.303Z48.7

The question of whether the realisation of the cryptoasset would be contrary
to the public interest is to be determined with particular reference to how
likely it is that the entry of the cryptoasset into general circulation would
facilitate criminal conduct by any person.

########### Proceeds of realisation

1.303Z49

1.303Z49.1

This section applies where any cryptoasset or other item of property is
realised under section  303Z48 .

1.303Z49.2

The proceeds of the realisation must be applied as follows—

1.303Z49.2.a

first, they must be applied in making any payment required to be made by
virtue of section  303Z45 (9) ;

1.303Z49.2.b

second, they must be applied in making any payment of legal expenses which,
after giving effect to section  303Z41 (6)  (including as applied by section
303Z45 (5) ), are payable under this subsection in pursuance of provision
under section  303Z41 (5)  or, as the case may be,  303Z45 (4) ;

1.303Z49.2.c

third, they must be applied in payment or reimbursement of any reasonable
costs incurred in storing or insuring the property whilst detained under this
Part and in realising the property;

1.303Z49.2.d

fourth, they must be paid—

1.303Z49.2.d.i

if the property was forfeited by a magistrates’ court or the High Court, into
the Consolidated Fund;

1.303Z49.2.d.ii

if the property was forfeited by the sheriff or the Court of Session, into the
Scottish Consolidated Fund.

1.303Z49.3

If what is realised under section  303Z48  represents part only of an item of
property, the reference in subsection  (2)(c)  to costs incurred in storing or
insuring the property is to be read as a reference to costs incurred in
storing or insuring the whole of the property.

########## Supplementary

########### Victims and other owners: detained cryptoassets

1.303Z50

1.303Z50.1

A person who claims that any cryptoassets detained under this Part belong to
the person may apply for some or all of the cryptoassets to be released.

1.303Z50.2

An application under subsection  (1)  is to be made—

1.303Z50.2.a

in England and Wales or Northern Ireland, to a magistrates’ court;

1.303Z50.2.b

in Scotland, to the sheriff.

1.303Z50.3

The application may be made in the course of proceedings under section  303Z32
or  303Z41  or at any other time.

1.303Z50.4

The court or sheriff may order the cryptoassets to which the application
relates to be released to the applicant if it appears to the court or sheriff
that—

1.303Z50.4.a

the applicant was deprived of the cryptoassets to which the application
relates, or of property which they represent, by unlawful conduct,

1.303Z50.4.b

the cryptoassets the applicant was deprived of were not, immediately before
the applicant was deprived of them, recoverable property, and

1.303Z50.4.c

the cryptoassets belong to the applicant.

1.303Z50.5

If subsection  (6)  applies, the court or sheriff may order the cryptoassets
to which the application relates to be released to the applicant or to the
person from whom they were seized.

1.303Z50.6

This subsection applies where—

1.303Z50.6.a

the applicant is not the person from whom the cryptoassets to which the
application relates were seized,

1.303Z50.6.b

it appears to the court or sheriff that those cryptoassets belong to the
applicant,

1.303Z50.6.c

the court or sheriff is satisfied that the release condition is met in
relation to those cryptoassets, and

1.303Z50.6.d

no objection to the making of an order under subsection  (5)  has been made by
the person from whom those cryptoassets were seized.

1.303Z50.7

The release condition is met—

1.303Z50.7.a

if the conditions in Chapter 3C for the detention of the cryptoassets are no
longer met, or

1.303Z50.7.b

in relation to cryptoassets which are subject to an application for forfeiture
under section  303Z41 , if the court or sheriff decides not to make an order
under that section in relation to the cryptoassets.

########### Victims and other owners: crypto wallet freezing orders

1.303Z51

1.303Z51.1

A person who claims that any cryptoassets held in a crypto wallet in respect
of which a crypto wallet freezing order has effect belong to the person may
apply for some or all of the cryptoassets to be released.

1.303Z51.2

An application under subsection  (1)  is to be made—

1.303Z51.2.a

in England and Wales or Northern Ireland, to a magistrates’ court;

1.303Z51.2.b

in Scotland, to the sheriff.

1.303Z51.3

The application may be made in the course of proceedings under section  303Z37
or  303Z41  or at any other time.

1.303Z51.4

The court or sheriff may, subject to subsection (8), order the cryptoassets to
which the application relates to be released to the applicant if it appears to
the court or sheriff that—

1.303Z51.4.a

the applicant was deprived of the cryptoassets to which the application
relates, or of property which they represent, by unlawful conduct,

1.303Z51.4.b

the cryptoassets the applicant was deprived of were not, immediately before
the applicant was deprived of them, recoverable property, and

1.303Z51.4.c

the cryptoassets belong to the applicant.

1.303Z51.5

If subsection  (6)  applies, the court or sheriff may, subject to subsection
(8), order the cryptoassets to which the application relates to be released to
the applicant.

1.303Z51.6

This subsection applies where—

1.303Z51.6.a

the applicant is not the person from whom the cryptoassets to which the
application relates were seized,

1.303Z51.6.b

it appears to the court or sheriff that those cryptoassets belong to the
applicant,

1.303Z51.6.c

the court or sheriff is satisfied that the release condition is met in
relation to those cryptoassets, and

1.303Z51.6.d

no objection to the making of an order under subsection  (5)  has been made by
the person from whom those cryptoassets were seized.

1.303Z51.7

The release condition is met—

1.303Z51.7.a

if the conditions for the making of the crypto wallet freezing order are no
longer met in relation to the cryptoassets to which the application relates,
or

1.303Z51.7.b

in relation to cryptoassets held in a crypto wallet subject to a crypto wallet
freezing order which are subject to an application for forfeiture under
section  303Z41 , if the court or sheriff decides not to make an order under
that section in relation to the cryptoassets.

1.303Z51.8

If an application under section 303Z41 is made for the forfeiture of the
cryptoassets, the cryptoassets are not to be released under this section until
any proceedings in pursuance of the application (including any proceedings on
appeal) are concluded.

1.303Z51.9

In relation to cryptoassets held in a crypto wallet that is subject to a
crypto wallet freezing order, references in this section to a person from whom
cryptoassets were seized include a reference to a person by or for whom the
crypto wallet was administered immediately before the crypto wallet freezing
order was made.

########### Compensation

1.303Z52

1.303Z52.1

This section applies if no order is made under section  303Z41 ,  303Z44  or
303Z45  in respect of cryptoassets detained under this Part or held in a
crypto wallet that is subject to a crypto wallet freezing order under section
303Z37 .

1.303Z52.2

Where this section applies, the following may make an application to the
relevant court for compensation—

1.303Z52.2.a

a person to whom the cryptoassets belong or from whom they were seized, or

1.303Z52.2.b

a person by or for whom a crypto wallet to which the crypto wallet freezing
order applies is administered.

1.303Z52.3

If the relevant court is satisfied that the applicant has suffered loss as a
result of the detention of the cryptoassets or the making of the crypto wallet
freezing order and that the circumstances are exceptional, the relevant court
may order compensation to be paid to the applicant.

1.303Z52.4

The amount of compensation to be paid is the amount the relevant court thinks
reasonable, having regard to the loss suffered and any other relevant
circumstances.

1.303Z52.5

If the cryptoassets were seized, or the crypto wallet freezing order was
applied for, by an officer of Revenue and Customs, the compensation is to be
paid by the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs.

1.303Z52.6

If the cryptoassets were seized, or the crypto wallet freezing order was
applied for, by a constable, the compensation is to be paid as follows—

1.303Z52.6.a

in the case of a constable of a police force in England and Wales, it is to be
paid out of the police fund from which the expenses of the police force are
met;

1.303Z52.6.b

in the case of a constable of the Police Service of Scotland, it is to be paid
by the Scottish Police Authority;

1.303Z52.6.c

in the case of a police officer within the meaning of the Police (Northern
Ireland) Act 2000, it is to be paid out of money provided by the Chief
Constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland.

1.303Z52.7

If the cryptoassets were seized, or the crypto wallet freezing order was
applied for, by an SFO officer, the compensation is to be paid by the Director
of the Serious Fraud Office.

1.303Z52.8

If the cryptoassets were seized, or the crypto wallet freezing order was
applied for, by a National Crime Agency officer, the compensation is to be
paid by the National Crime Agency.

1.303Z52.9

If the cryptoassets were seized, or the crypto wallet freezing order was
applied for, by an accredited financial investigator who was not an officer of
Revenue and Customs, a constable, an SFO officer or a National Crime Agency
officer, the compensation is to be paid as follows—

1.303Z52.9.a

in the case of an investigator who was—

1.303Z52.9.a.i

a member of the civilian staff of a police force (including the metropolitan
police force), within the meaning of Part 1 of the Police Reform and Social
Responsibility Act 2011, or

1.303Z52.9.a.ii

a member of staff of the City of London police force,

it is to be paid out of the police fund from which the expenses of the police
force are met,

1.303Z52.9.b

in the case of an investigator who was a member of staff of the Police Service
of Northern Ireland, it is to be paid out of money provided by the Chief
Constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland,

1.303Z52.9.c

in the case of an investigator who was a member of staff of a department of
the Government of the United Kingdom, it is to be paid by the Minister of the
Crown in charge of the department or by the department,

1.303Z52.9.d

in the case of an investigator who was a member of staff of a Northern Ireland
department, it is to be paid by the department,

1.303Z52.9.e

in the case of an investigator who was exercising a function of the Welsh
Revenue Authority, it is to be paid by the Welsh Revenue Authority, and

1.303Z52.9.f

in any other case, it is to be paid by the employer of the investigator.

1.303Z52.10

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend subsection  (9) .

1.303Z52.11

The power in subsection  (10)  is exercisable by the Department of Justice
(and not by the Secretary of State) so far as it may be used to make provision
that—

1.303Z52.11.a

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

1.303Z52.11.b

would not, if contained in a Bill for an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State.

1.303Z52.12

If an order under section  303Z37 ,  303Z41 ,  303Z44  or  303Z45  is made in
respect of some of the cryptoassets detained or held, this section has effect
in relation to the remainder.

1.303Z52.13

In this section “ relevant court ” means—

1.303Z52.13.a

in England and Wales and Northern Ireland, a magistrates’ court, and

1.303Z52.13.b

in Scotland, the sheriff.

########### Powers for prosecutors to appear in proceedings

1.303Z53

1.303Z53.1

The Director of Public Prosecutions or the Director of Public Prosecutions for
Northern Ireland may appear for a constable or an accredited financial
investigator in proceedings under this Chapter if the Director—

1.303Z53.1.a

is asked by, or on behalf of, a constable or (as the case may be) an
accredited financial investigator to do so, and

1.303Z53.1.b

considers it appropriate to do so.

1.303Z53.2

The Director of Public Prosecutions may appear for the Commissioners for His
Majesty’s Revenue and Customs or an officer of Revenue and Customs in
proceedings under this Chapter if the Director—

1.303Z53.2.a

is asked by, or on behalf of, the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and
Customs or (as the case may be) an officer of Revenue and Customs to do so,
and

1.303Z53.2.b

considers it appropriate to do so.

1.303Z53.3

The Directors may charge fees for the provision of services under this
section.

1.303Z53.4

The references in subsection  (1)  to an accredited financial investigator do
not include an accredited financial investigator who is an officer of Revenue
and Customs but the references in subsection  (2)  to an officer of Revenue
and Customs do include an accredited financial investigator who is an officer
of Revenue and Customs.

######### Conversion of cryptoassets

########## Conversion

########### Detained cryptoassets: conversion

1.303Z54

1.303Z54.1

Subsection  (2)  applies while any cryptoassets are detained in pursuance of
an order under section  303Z30  or  303Z32  (including where cryptoassets are
subject to forfeiture proceedings).

1.303Z54.2

A person within subsection  (3)  may apply to the relevant court for an order
requiring all of the cryptoassets detained pursuant to the order to be
converted into money.

1.303Z54.3

The following persons are within this subsection—

1.303Z54.3.a

an enforcement officer;

1.303Z54.3.b

a person from whom the cryptoassets were seized.

1.303Z54.4

In deciding whether to make an order under this section, the court must have
regard to whether the cryptoassets (as a whole) are likely to suffer a
significant loss in value during the period before they are released or
forfeited (including the period during which an appeal against an order for
forfeiture may be made).

1.303Z54.5

Before making an order under this section the court must give an opportunity
to be heard to—

1.303Z54.5.a

the parties to the proceedings, and

1.303Z54.5.b

any other person who may be affected by its decision.

1.303Z54.6

As soon as practicable after an order is made under this section, an
enforcement officer must convert the cryptoassets, or arrange for the
cryptoassets to be converted, into money.

1.303Z54.7

The conversion of cryptoassets under subsection  (6)  must be carried out, so
far as practicable, in the manner best calculated to maximise the amount of
money obtained for the cryptoassets.

1.303Z54.8

At the first opportunity after the cryptoassets are converted, the enforcement
officer must arrange for the amount of money obtained for the cryptoassets to
be paid into an interest-bearing account and held there.

1.303Z54.9

Interest accruing on the amount is to be added to it on its forfeiture or
release.

1.303Z54.10

Where cryptoassets are converted into money in accordance with an order made
under this section—

1.303Z54.10.a

the cryptoassets are no longer to be treated as being detained in pursuance of
an order under section  303Z30  or  303Z32 , and

1.303Z54.10.b

any application made under section  303Z41 (2)  in relation to the
cryptoassets which has not yet been determined or otherwise disposed of
(including under section  303Z44  or  303Z45 ) is to be treated as if it were
an application made under section  303Z60 (2)  in relation to the converted
cryptoassets.

1.303Z54.11

An order made under this section must provide for notice to be given to
persons affected by the order.

1.303Z54.12

No appeal may be made against an order made under this section.

########### Frozen crypto wallet: conversion

1.303Z55

1.303Z55.1

This section applies while a crypto wallet freezing order under section
303Z37  has effect (including where cryptoassets held in a crypto wallet that
is subject to a crypto wallet freezing order are subject to forfeiture
proceedings).

1.303Z55.2

A person within subsection  (3)  may apply to the relevant court for an order
requiring all of the cryptoassets held in the crypto wallet to be converted
into money.

1.303Z55.3

The following persons are within this subsection—

1.303Z55.3.a

an enforcement officer;

1.303Z55.3.b

a person by or for whom the crypto wallet is administered.

1.303Z55.4

In deciding whether to make an order under this section, the court must have
regard to whether the cryptoassets (as a whole) are likely to suffer a
significant loss in value during the period before—

1.303Z55.4.a

the crypto wallet freezing order ceases to have effect, or

1.303Z55.4.b

the cryptoassets are forfeited (including the period during which an appeal
against an order for forfeiture may be made).

1.303Z55.5

Before making an order under this section the court must give an opportunity
to be heard to—

1.303Z55.5.a

the parties to the proceedings, and

1.303Z55.5.b

any other person who may be affected by its decision.

1.303Z55.6

As soon as practicable after an order is made under this section, the UK-
connected cryptoasset service provider that administers the crypto wallet must
convert the cryptoassets, or arrange for the cryptoassets to be converted,
into money.

1.303Z55.7

The conversion of cryptoassets under subsection  (6)  must be carried out, so
far as practicable, in the manner best calculated to maximise the amount of
money obtained for the cryptoassets.

1.303Z55.8

At the first opportunity after the cryptoassets are converted, the UK-
connected cryptoasset service provider must arrange for the amount of money
obtained for the cryptoassets to be paid into an interest-bearing account
nominated by an enforcement officer and held there.

1.303Z55.9

But—

1.303Z55.9.a

the UK-connected cryptoasset service provider may deduct any reasonable
expenses incurred by the provider in connection with the conversion of the
cryptoassets, and

1.303Z55.9.b

the amount to be treated as the proceeds of the conversion of the cryptoassets
is to be reduced accordingly.

1.303Z55.10

Interest accruing on the amount obtained for the cryptoassets is to be added
to it on its forfeiture or release.

1.303Z55.11

Where cryptoassets are converted in accordance with an order made under this
section—

1.303Z55.11.a

the crypto wallet freezing order ceases to have effect,

1.303Z55.11.b

any application made under section  303Z41 (2)  in relation to the
cryptoassets which has not yet been determined or otherwise disposed of
(including under section  303Z44  or  303Z45 ) is to be treated as if it were
an application made under section  303Z60 (2)  in relation to the converted
cryptoassets, and

1.303Z55.11.c

any application made under section  303Z46 (2)  in relation to the crypto
wallet which has not yet been determined or otherwise disposed of may not be
proceeded with.

1.303Z55.12

An order made under this section must provide for notice to be given to
persons affected by the order.

1.303Z55.13

No appeal may be made against an order made under this section.

########### Conversion: existing forfeiture proceedings

1.303Z56

1.303Z56.1

Where—

1.303Z56.1.a

cryptoassets are forfeited under section  303Z41  or  303Z45 , and

1.303Z56.1.b

before the cryptoassets are realised or destroyed in accordance with section
303Z48 , an order is made under section  303Z54  requiring the cryptoassets to
be converted into money,

section  303Z62 (1)  applies in relation to the converted cryptoassets as if
they had been detained under section  303Z57  and forfeited under section
303Z60  (and accordingly section  303Z48  ceases to apply).

1.303Z56.2

Where—

1.303Z56.2.a

cryptoassets are forfeited under section  303Z41  or  303Z45 , and

1.303Z56.2.b

before the cryptoassets are realised or destroyed in accordance with section
303Z48 , an order is made under section  303Z55  requiring the cryptoassets to
be converted into money,

section  303Z62 (2)  applies in relation to the converted cryptoassets as if
they had been detained under section  303Z58  and forfeited under section
303Z60  (and accordingly section  303Z48  ceases to apply).

1.303Z56.3

Where—

1.303Z56.3.a

an appeal may be made under section  303Z47 (1)  or  (2)  in relation to the
determination of an application under section  303Z41 (2)  for the forfeiture
of cryptoassets (including where section  303Z44  or  303Z45  applies), and

1.303Z56.3.b

an order is made under section  303Z54  or  303Z55  requiring the cryptoassets
to be converted into money,

the appeal may instead be made under section  303Z61  (within the time allowed
by section  303Z47 (4) ) as if it were an appeal against the determination of
an application under section  303Z60 .

1.303Z56.4

Where—

1.303Z56.4.a

an appeal is made under section  303Z47 (1)  or  (2)  in relation to the
determination of an application under section  303Z41 (2)  for the forfeiture
of cryptoassets (including where section  303Z44  or  303Z45  applies), and

1.303Z56.4.b

before the appeal is determined or otherwise disposed of, an order is made
under section  303Z54  or  303Z55  requiring the cryptoassets to be converted
into money,

the appeal is to be treated as if it had been made under section  303Z61 (1)
in relation to the determination of an application under section  303Z60  for
the forfeiture of the converted cryptoassets.

########## Detention

########### Detained cryptoassets: detention of proceeds of conversion

1.303Z57

1.303Z57.1

This section applies where cryptoassets are converted into money in accordance
with an order under section  303Z54 .

1.303Z57.2

The proceeds of the conversion (the “converted cryptoassets”) may be detained
initially until the end of the period that the cryptoassets could, immediately
before the conversion, have been detained under Chapter 3C (ignoring the
possibility of any extension of that period).

1.303Z57.3

The period for which the converted cryptoassets may be detained may be
extended by an order made by the relevant court.

1.303Z57.4

An order under subsection  (3)  may not authorise the detention of the
converted cryptoassets beyond the end of the period of 2 years beginning with
the relevant date; but this is subject to subsection  (5) .

1.303Z57.5

The relevant court may make an order for the period of 2 years in subsection
(4)  to be extended to a period of up to 3 years beginning with the relevant
date.

1.303Z57.6

In subsections  (4)  and  (5)  “ the relevant date ” means the date on which
the first order under section  303Z30  or  303Z32  (as the case may be) was
made in relation to the cryptoassets.

1.303Z57.7

An application for an order under subsection  (3)  or  (5)  may be made—

1.303Z57.7.a

in relation to England and Wales and Northern Ireland, by—

1.303Z57.7.a.i

the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs,

1.303Z57.7.a.ii

a constable,

1.303Z57.7.a.iii

an SFO officer, or

1.303Z57.7.a.iv

an accredited financial investigator who falls within a description specified
in an order made for the purposes of this Chapter by the Secretary of State or
the Welsh Ministers under section 453, and

1.303Z57.7.b

in relation to Scotland, by the Scottish Ministers in connection with their
functions under section  303Z41  or by a procurator fiscal.

1.303Z57.8

The relevant court may make an order under subsection  (3)  only if satisfied
that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the converted
cryptoassets to be further detained—

1.303Z57.8.a

are recoverable property, or

1.303Z57.8.b

are intended by any person for use in unlawful conduct.

1.303Z57.9

The relevant court may make an order under subsection  (5)  only if satisfied
that a request for assistance is outstanding in relation to the cryptoassets
mentioned in subsection  (1) .

1.303Z57.10

A “request for assistance” in subsection  (9)  means a request for assistance
in obtaining evidence (including information in any form or article) in
connection with the cryptoassets, made—

1.303Z57.10.a

by a judicial authority in the United Kingdom under section 7 of the Crime
(International Co-operation) Act 2003,

1.303Z57.10.b

by an enforcement officer, to an authority exercising equivalent functions in
a foreign country,

1.303Z57.10.c

by the Scottish Ministers in connection with their functions under this Part,
to an authority exercising equivalent functions in a foreign country, or

1.303Z57.10.d

by a person under section 375A or 408A (evidence overseas).

########### Frozen crypto wallets: detention of proceeds of conversion

1.303Z58

1.303Z58.1

This section applies where cryptoassets held in a crypto wallet subject to a
crypto wallet freezing order are converted into money in accordance with an
order under section  303Z55 .

1.303Z58.2

The proceeds of the conversion (the “converted cryptoassets”) may be detained
initially until the end of the period that the crypto wallet freezing order
was, immediately before the conversion, due to have effect under Chapter 3D
(ignoring the possibility of any extension of that period).

1.303Z58.3

The period for which the converted cryptoassets may be detained may be
extended by an order made by the relevant court.

1.303Z58.4

An order under subsection  (3)  may not authorise the detention of the
converted cryptoassets beyond the end of the period of 2 years beginning with
the day on which the crypto wallet freezing order was made; but this is
subject to subsection  (5) .

1.303Z58.5

The relevant court may make an order for the period of 2 years in subsection
(4)  to be extended to a period of up to 3 years beginning with the day on
which the crypto wallet freezing order was made.

1.303Z58.6

An application for an order under subsection  (3)  or  (5)  may be made—

1.303Z58.6.a

in relation to England and Wales and Northern Ireland, by—

1.303Z58.6.a.i

the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs,

1.303Z58.6.a.ii

a constable,

1.303Z58.6.a.iii

an SFO officer, or

1.303Z58.6.a.iv

an accredited financial investigator who falls within a description specified
in an order made for the purposes of this Chapter by the Secretary of State or
the Welsh Ministers under section 453, and

1.303Z58.6.b

in relation to Scotland, by the Scottish Ministers in connection with their
functions under section  303Z41  or by a procurator fiscal.

1.303Z58.7

The relevant court may make an order under subsection  (3)  only if satisfied
that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the converted
cryptoassets to be further detained—

1.303Z58.7.a

are recoverable property, or

1.303Z58.7.b

are intended by any person for use in unlawful conduct.

1.303Z58.8

The relevant court may make an order under subsection  (5)  only if satisfied
that a request for assistance is outstanding in relation to the cryptoassets
mentioned in subsection  (1) .

1.303Z58.9

A “request for assistance” in subsection  (8)  means a request for assistance
in obtaining evidence (including information in any form or article) in
connection with the cryptoassets, made—

1.303Z58.9.a

by a judicial authority in the United Kingdom under section 7 of the Crime
(International Co-operation) Act 2003,

1.303Z58.9.b

by an enforcement officer, to an authority exercising equivalent functions in
a foreign country,

1.303Z58.9.c

by the Scottish Ministers in connection with their functions under this Part,
to an authority exercising equivalent functions in a foreign country, or

1.303Z58.9.d

by a person under section 375A or 408A (evidence overseas).

########## Release

########### Release of detained converted cryptoassets

1.303Z59

1.303Z59.1

This section applies while any converted cryptoassets are detained under
section  303Z57  or  303Z58 .

1.303Z59.2

The relevant court may direct the release of the whole or any part of the
converted cryptoassets if the following condition is met.

1.303Z59.3

The condition is that, on an application by the relevant person, the court is
not satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the
converted cryptoassets to be released—

1.303Z59.3.a

are recoverable property, or

1.303Z59.3.b

are intended by any person for use in unlawful conduct.

1.303Z59.4

In subsection  (3)  “ the relevant person ” means—

1.303Z59.4.a

in the case of converted cryptoassets detained under section  303Z57 , the
person from whom the cryptoassets mentioned in subsection  (1)  of that
section were seized, and

1.303Z59.4.b

in the case of converted cryptoassets detained under section  303Z58 , any
person affected by the crypto wallet freezing order mentioned in subsection
(1)  of that section.

1.303Z59.5

A person within subsection  (6)  may, after notifying the magistrates’ court
or sheriff under whose order converted cryptoassets are being detained,
release the whole or any part of the converted cryptoassets if satisfied that
the detention is no longer justified.

1.303Z59.6

The following persons are within this subsection—

1.303Z59.6.a

in relation to England and Wales or Northern Ireland, an enforcement officer;

1.303Z59.6.b

in relation to Scotland—

1.303Z59.6.b.i

the Scottish Ministers,

1.303Z59.6.b.ii

an officer of Revenue and Customs,

1.303Z59.6.b.iii

a constable, and

1.303Z59.6.b.iv

a procurator fiscal.

########## Forfeiture

########### Forfeiture order

1.303Z60

1.303Z60.1

This section applies while any converted cryptoassets are detained under
section  303Z57  or  303Z58 .

1.303Z60.2

An application for the forfeiture of some or all of the converted cryptoassets
may be made—

1.303Z60.2.a

to a magistrates’ court by a person within subsection  (3) , or

1.303Z60.2.b

to the sheriff by the Scottish Ministers.

1.303Z60.3

The following persons are within this subsection—

1.303Z60.3.a

the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs,

1.303Z60.3.b

a constable,

1.303Z60.3.c

an SFO officer, and

1.303Z60.3.d

an accredited financial investigator who falls within a description specified
in an order made for the purposes of this Chapter by the Secretary of State or
the Welsh Ministers under section 453.

1.303Z60.4

The court or sheriff may order the forfeiture of some or all of the converted
cryptoassets if satisfied that the converted cryptoassets to be forfeited—

1.303Z60.4.a

are recoverable property, or

1.303Z60.4.b

are intended by any person for use in unlawful conduct.

1.303Z60.5

But in the case of recoverable property which belongs to joint tenants, one of
whom is an excepted joint owner, the order may not apply to so much of it as
the court thinks is attributable to the excepted joint owner’s share.

1.303Z60.6

Where an application for forfeiture is made under this section, the converted
cryptoassets are to continue to be detained under section  303Z57  or  303Z58
(and may not be released under any power conferred by this Chapter) until any
proceedings in pursuance of the application (including any proceedings on
appeal) are concluded.

########### Appeal against decision under section 

1.303Z61

1.303Z61.1

Any party to proceedings for an order for the forfeiture of converted
cryptoassets under section  303Z60  who is aggrieved by an order under that
section or by the decision of the court not to make such an order may appeal—

1.303Z61.1.a

from an order or decision of a magistrates’ court in England and Wales, to the
Crown Court;

1.303Z61.1.b

from an order or decision of the sheriff, to the Sheriff Appeal Court;

1.303Z61.1.c

from an order or decision of a magistrates’ court in Northern Ireland, to a
county court.

1.303Z61.2

An appeal under subsection  (1)  must be made before the end of the period of
30 days starting with the day on which the court makes the order or decision.

1.303Z61.3

The court hearing the appeal may make any order it thinks appropriate.

1.303Z61.4

If the court upholds an appeal against an order forfeiting the converted
cryptoassets, it may order the release of some or all of the converted
cryptoassets.

########### Application of forfeited converted cryptoassets

1.303Z62

1.303Z62.1

Converted cryptoassets detained under section  303Z57  and forfeited under
section  303Z60 , and any accrued interest on them, must be applied as
follows—

1.303Z62.1.a

first, they must be applied in making any payment of reasonable expenses
incurred by an enforcement officer in connection with the safe storage of the
cryptoassets mentioned in section  303Z57 (1)  during the period the
cryptoassets were detained under Chapter 3C;

1.303Z62.1.b

second, they must be applied in making any payment of reasonable expenses
incurred by an enforcement officer in connection with the conversion of those
cryptoassets under section  303Z54 (6) ;

1.303Z62.1.c

third, they must be applied in making any payment of reasonable expenses
incurred by an enforcement officer in connection with the detention of the
converted cryptoassets under this Chapter;

1.303Z62.1.d

fourth, they must be paid—

1.303Z62.1.d.i

if forfeited by a magistrates’ court in England and Wales or Northern Ireland,
into the Consolidated Fund, and

1.303Z62.1.d.ii

if forfeited by the sheriff, into the Scottish Consolidated Fund.

1.303Z62.2

Converted cryptoassets detained under section  303Z58  and forfeited under
section  303Z60 , and any accrued interest on them, must be applied as
follows—

1.303Z62.2.a

first, they must be applied in making any payment of reasonable expenses
incurred by an enforcement officer in connection with the detention of the
converted cryptoassets under this Chapter;

1.303Z62.2.b

second, they must be paid—

1.303Z62.2.b.i

if forfeited by a magistrates’ court in England and Wales or Northern Ireland,
into the Consolidated Fund, and

1.303Z62.2.b.ii

if forfeited by the sheriff, into the Scottish Consolidated Fund.

1.303Z62.3

But converted cryptoassets are not to be applied or paid under subsection  (1)
or  (2) —

1.303Z62.3.a

before the end of the period within which an appeal under section  303Z61  may
be made, or

1.303Z62.3.b

if a person appeals under that section, before the appeal is determined or
otherwise disposed of.

########## Supplementary

########### Victims and other owners

1.303Z63

1.303Z63.1

This section applies where converted cryptoassets are detained under this
Chapter.

1.303Z63.2

Where this section applies, a person (“ P ”) who claims that the relevant
cryptoassets belonged to P immediately before—

1.303Z63.2.a

the relevant cryptoassets were seized, or

1.303Z63.2.b

the crypto wallet freezing order was made in relation to the crypto wallet in
which the relevant cryptoassets were held,

may apply to the relevant court for some or all of the converted cryptoassets
to be released to P.

1.303Z63.3

The application may be made in the course of proceedings under section  303Z57
,  303Z58  or  303Z60  or at any other time.

1.303Z63.4

The relevant court may order the converted cryptoassets to which the
application relates to be released to the applicant if it appears to the
relevant court that the condition in subsection  (5)  is met.

1.303Z63.5

The condition in this subsection is that—

1.303Z63.5.a

the applicant was deprived of the relevant cryptoassets, or of property which
they represent, by unlawful conduct,

1.303Z63.5.b

the relevant cryptoassets the applicant was deprived of were not, immediately
before the applicant was deprived of them, recoverable property, and

1.303Z63.5.c

the relevant cryptoassets belonged to the applicant immediately before—

1.303Z63.5.c.i

the relevant cryptoassets were seized, or

1.303Z63.5.c.ii

the crypto wallet freezing order was made in relation to the crypto wallet in
which the relevant cryptoassets were held.

1.303Z63.6

If subsection  (7)  applies, the relevant court may order the converted
cryptoassets to which the application relates to be released to the applicant
or to the person from whom the relevant cryptoassets were seized.

1.303Z63.7

This subsection applies where—

1.303Z63.7.a

the applicant is not the person from whom the relevant cryptoassets were
seized,

1.303Z63.7.b

it appears to the relevant court that the relevant cryptoassets belonged to
the applicant immediately before—

1.303Z63.7.b.i

the relevant cryptoassets were seized, or

1.303Z63.7.b.ii

the crypto wallet freezing order was made in relation to the crypto wallet in
which the relevant cryptoassets were held,

1.303Z63.7.c

the relevant court is satisfied that the release condition is met in relation
to the converted cryptoassets, and

1.303Z63.7.d

no objection to the making of an order under subsection  (6)  has been made by
the person from whom the relevant cryptoassets were seized.

1.303Z63.8

The release condition is met—

1.303Z63.8.a

if the conditions in this Chapter for the detention of the converted
cryptoassets are no longer met, or

1.303Z63.8.b

in relation to converted cryptoassets which are subject to an application for
forfeiture under section  303Z60 , if the court or sheriff decides not to make
an order under that section in relation to the converted cryptoassets.

1.303Z63.9

Where subsection  (2)(b)  applies, references in this section to a person from
whom relevant cryptoassets were seized include a reference to a person by or
for whom the crypto wallet mentioned in that provision was administered
immediately before the crypto wallet freezing order was made in relation to
the crypto wallet.

1.303Z63.10

In this section “ the relevant cryptoassets ” means—

1.303Z63.10.a

in relation to converted cryptoassets detained under section  303Z57 , some or
all of the cryptoassets mentioned in subsection  (1)  of that section, and

1.303Z63.10.b

in relation to converted cryptoassets detained under section  303Z58 , some or
all of the cryptoassets mentioned in subsection  (1)  of that section.

########### Compensation

1.303Z64

1.303Z64.1

This section applies if no order is made under section  303Z60  in respect of
converted cryptoassets detained under this Chapter.

1.303Z64.2

Where this section applies, the following may make an application to the
relevant court for compensation—

1.303Z64.2.a

a person to whom the relevant cryptoassets belonged immediately before they
were seized;

1.303Z64.2.b

a person from whom the relevant cryptoassets were seized;

1.303Z64.2.c

a person by or for whom the crypto wallet mentioned in section  303Z58 (1)
was administered immediately before the crypto wallet freezing order was made
in relation to the crypto wallet.

1.303Z64.3

If the relevant court is satisfied that—

1.303Z64.3.a

the applicant has suffered loss as a result of—

1.303Z64.3.a.i

the conversion of the relevant cryptoassets into money, or

1.303Z64.3.a.ii

the detention of the converted cryptoassets, and

1.303Z64.3.b

the circumstances are exceptional,

the relevant court may order compensation to be paid to the applicant.

1.303Z64.4

The amount of compensation to be paid is the amount the relevant court thinks
reasonable, having regard to the loss suffered and any other relevant
circumstances.

1.303Z64.5

If the relevant cryptoassets were seized, or the relevant crypto wallet
freezing order was applied for, by an officer of Revenue and Customs, the
compensation is to be paid by the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and
Customs.

1.303Z64.6

If the relevant cryptoassets were seized, or the relevant crypto wallet
freezing order was applied for, by a constable, the compensation is to be paid
as follows—

1.303Z64.6.a

in the case of a constable of a police force in England and Wales, it is to be
paid out of the police fund from which the expenses of the police force are
met;

1.303Z64.6.b

in the case of a constable of the Police Service of Scotland, it is to be paid
by the Scottish Police Authority;

1.303Z64.6.c

in the case of a police officer within the meaning of the Police (Northern
Ireland) Act 2000, it is to be paid out of money provided by the Chief
Constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland.

1.303Z64.7

If the relevant cryptoassets were seized, or the relevant crypto wallet
freezing order was applied for, by an SFO officer, the compensation is to be
paid by the Director of the Serious Fraud Office.

1.303Z64.8

If the relevant cryptoassets were seized, or the relevant crypto wallet
freezing order was applied for, by a National Crime Agency officer, the
compensation is to be paid by the National Crime Agency.

1.303Z64.9

If the relevant cryptoassets were seized, or the relevant crypto wallet
freezing order was applied for, by an accredited financial investigator who
was not an officer of Revenue and Customs, a constable, an SFO officer or a
National Crime Agency officer, the compensation is to be paid as follows—

1.303Z64.9.a

in the case of an investigator who was—

1.303Z64.9.a.i

a member of the civilian staff of a police force (including the metropolitan
police force), within the meaning of Part 1 of the Police Reform and Social
Responsibility Act 2011, or

1.303Z64.9.a.ii

a member of staff of the City of London police force,

it is to be paid out of the police fund from which the expenses of the police
force are met,

1.303Z64.9.b

in the case of an investigator who was a member of staff of the Police Service
of Northern Ireland, it is to be paid out of money provided by the Chief
Constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland,

1.303Z64.9.c

in the case of an investigator who was a member of staff of a department of
the Government of the United Kingdom, it is to be paid by the Minister of the
Crown in charge of the department or by the department,

1.303Z64.9.d

in the case of an investigator who was a member of staff of a Northern Ireland
department, it is to be paid by the department,

1.303Z64.9.e

in the case of an investigator who was exercising a function of the Welsh
Revenue Authority, it is to be paid by the Welsh Revenue Authority, and

1.303Z64.9.f

in any other case, it is to be paid by the employer of the investigator.

1.303Z64.10

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend subsection  (9) .

1.303Z64.11

The power in subsection  (10)  is exercisable by the Department of Justice
(and not by the Secretary of State) so far as it may be used to make provision
that—

1.303Z64.11.a

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

1.303Z64.11.b

would not, if contained in a Bill for an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State.

1.303Z64.12

In this section—

“ the relevant cryptoassets ” means— in relation to converted cryptoassets
detained under section  303Z57 , the cryptoassets mentioned in subsection  (1)
of that section; in relation to converted cryptoassets detained under section
303Z58 , the cryptoassets mentioned in subsection  (1)  of that section; “ the
relevant crypto wallet freezing order ”, in relation to converted cryptoassets
detained under section  303Z58 , means the crypto wallet freezing order
mentioned in subsection  (1)  of that section.

########### Powers for prosecutors to appear in proceedings

1.303Z65

1.303Z65.1

The Director of Public Prosecutions or the Director of Public Prosecutions for
Northern Ireland may appear for a constable or an accredited financial
investigator in proceedings under this Chapter if the Director—

1.303Z65.1.a

is asked by, or on behalf of, a constable or (as the case may be) an
accredited financial investigator to do so, and

1.303Z65.1.b

considers it appropriate to do so.

1.303Z65.2

The Director of Public Prosecutions may appear for the Commissioners for His
Majesty’s Revenue and Customs or an officer of Revenue and Customs in
proceedings under this Chapter if the Director—

1.303Z65.2.a

is asked by, or on behalf of, the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and
Customs or (as the case may be) an officer of Revenue and Customs to do so,
and

1.303Z65.2.b

considers it appropriate to do so.

1.303Z65.3

The Directors may charge fees for the provision of services under this
section.

1.303Z65.4

The references in subsection  (1)  to an accredited financial investigator do
not include an accredited financial investigator who is an officer of Revenue
and Customs but the references in subsection  (2)  to an officer of Revenue
and Customs do include an accredited financial investigator who is an officer
of Revenue and Customs.

########## Interpretation

########### Interpretation

1.303Z66

1.303Z66.1

In this Chapter—

“ converted cryptoassets ” is to be read in accordance with sections  303Z57
and  303Z58 ; “ crypto wallet freezing order ” has the same meaning as in
Chapter 3D (see section  303Z36 ); “ enforcement officer ” has the meaning
given by section  303Z20 ; “ relevant court ” means— in England and Wales and
Northern Ireland, a magistrates’ court, and in Scotland, the sheriff; “
relevant financial institution ” has the meaning given by section 303Z1(6); “
UK-connected cryptoasset service provider ” has the meaning given by section
303Z36 .

1.303Z66.2

Section  303Z36 (4)(b)  applies in relation to this Chapter as it applies in
relation to Chapter 3D.

1.303Z66.3

In this Chapter references to the conversion of cryptoassets into money are
references to the conversion of cryptoassets into—

1.303Z66.3.a

cash, or

1.303Z66.3.b

money held in an account maintained with a relevant financial institution.

##### Consequential and other amendments

###### Amendments to the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002

2

In section 2C(3A) of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (prosecuting authorities),
for “or 303Z19” substitute  “, 303Z19, 303Z53 or 303Z65” .

3

3.1

Part 2 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (confiscation: England and Wales) is
amended as follows.

3.2

In section 7 (recoverable amount)—

3.2.a

in subsection (4)(c), for “or 303Z14(4)” substitute  “, 303Z14(4), 303Z41(4),
303Z45(3) or 303Z60(4)” ;

3.2.b

in subsection (4)(d), after “303Q(1)” insert  “or 303Z44(1)” .

3.3

In section 82 (free property)—

3.3.a

in subsection (2)—

3.3.a.i

in paragraph (ea), for “or 10Z2(3)” substitute  “, 10Z2(3), 10Z7AG(1),
10Z7BB(2), 10Z7CA(3), 10Z7CE(3) or 10Z7DG(3)” ;

3.3.a.ii

in paragraph (f), for “or 303Z14(4)” substitute  “, 303Z14(4), 303Z32(1),
303Z37(2), 303Z41(4), 303Z45(3) or 303Z60(4)” ;

3.3.b

in subsection (3)—

3.3.b.i

after paragraph (b) insert—

3.3.b.i.ba

it is detained under section 303Z30, 303Z31 or 303Z32 in a case where section
303Z42(2) applies;

3.3.b.i.bb

it is detained under section 303Z57 or 303Z58 in a case where section
303Z60(6) applies;

;

3.3.b.ii

in paragraph (c), after “303Q(1)” insert  “or 303Z44(1)” ;

3.3.b.iii

after paragraph (e) insert—

3.3.b.iii.ea

it is detained under paragraph 10Z7AE, 10Z7AF or 10Z7AG of that Schedule in a
case where paragraph 10Z7CB(2) of that Schedule applies;

3.3.b.iii.eb

it is detained under paragraph 10Z7DD or 10Z7DE of that Schedule in a case
where paragraph 10Z7DG(5) of that Schedule applies;

;

3.3.b.iv

in paragraph (f), after “10I(1)” insert  “or 10Z7CD(1)” .

4

4.1

Part 3 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (confiscation: Scotland) is amended
as follows.

4.2

In section 93 (recoverable amount)—

4.2.a

in subsection (4)(c), for “or 303Z14(4)” substitute  “, 303Z14(4), 303Z41(4),
303Z45(3) or 303Z60(4)” ;

4.2.b

in subsection (4)(d), after “303Q(1)” insert  “or 303Z44(1)” .

4.3

In section 148 (free property)—

4.3.a

in subsection (2)—

4.3.a.i

in paragraph (ea), for “or 10Z2(3)” substitute  “, 10Z2(3), 10Z7AG(1),
10Z7BB(2), 10Z7CA(3), 10Z7CE(3) or 10Z7DG(3)” ;

4.3.a.ii

in paragraph (f), for “or 303Z14(4)” substitute  “, 303Z14(4), 303Z32(1),
303Z37(2), 303Z41(4), 303Z45(3) or 303Z60(4)” ;

4.3.b

in subsection (3)—

4.3.b.i

after paragraph (b) insert—

4.3.b.i.ba

it is detained under section 303Z30, 303Z31 or 303Z32 in a case where section
303Z42(2) applies;

4.3.b.i.bb

it is detained under section 303Z57 or 303Z58 in a case where section
303Z60(6) applies;

;

4.3.b.ii

in paragraph (c), after “303Q(1)” insert  “or 303Z44(1)” ;

4.3.b.iii

after paragraph (e) insert—

4.3.b.iii.ea

it is detained under paragraph 10Z7AE, 10Z7AF or 10Z7AG of that Schedule in a
case where paragraph 10Z7CB(2) of that Schedule applies;

4.3.b.iii.eb

it is detained under paragraph 10Z7DD or 10Z7DE of that Schedule in a case
where paragraph 10Z7DG(5) of that Schedule applies;

;

4.3.b.iv

in paragraph (f), after “10I(1)” insert  “or 10Z7CD(1)” .

5

5.1

Part 4 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (confiscation: Northern Ireland) is
amended as follows.

5.2

In section 157 (recoverable amount)—

5.2.a

in subsection (4)(c), for “or 303Z14(4)” substitute  “, 303Z14(4), 303Z41(4),
303Z45(3) or 303Z60(4)” ;

5.2.b

in subsection (4)(d), after “303Q(1)” insert  “or 303Z44(1)” .

5.3

In section 230 (free property)—

5.3.a

in subsection (2)—

5.3.a.i

in paragraph (ea), for “or 10Z2(3)” substitute  “, 10Z2(3), 10Z7AG(1),
10Z7BB(2), 10Z7CA(3), 10Z7CE(3) or 10Z7DG(3)” ;

5.3.a.ii

in paragraph (f), for “or 303Z14(4)” substitute  “, 303Z14(4), 303Z32(1),
303Z37(2), 303Z41(4), 303Z45(3) or 303Z60(4)” ;

5.3.b

in subsection (3)—

5.3.b.i

after paragraph (b) insert—

5.3.b.i.ba

it is detained under section 303Z30, 303Z31 or 303Z32 in a case where section
303Z42(2) applies;

5.3.b.i.bb

it is detained under section 303Z57 or 303Z58 in a case where section
303Z60(6) applies;

;

5.3.b.ii

in paragraph (c), after “303Q(1)” insert  “or 303Z44(1)” ;

5.3.b.iii

after paragraph (e) insert—

5.3.b.iii.ea

it is detained under paragraph 10Z7AE, 10Z7AF or 10Z7AG of that Schedule in a
case where paragraph 10Z7CB(2) of that Schedule applies;

5.3.b.iii.eb

it is detained under paragraph 10Z7DD or 10Z7DE of that Schedule in a case
where paragraph 10Z7DG(5) of that Schedule applies;

;

5.3.b.iv

in paragraph (f), after “10I(1)” insert  “or 10Z7CD(1)” .

6

6.1

Part 5 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (civil recovery of the proceeds etc
of unlawful conduct) is amended as follows.

6.2

In section 278 (limit on recovery)—

6.2.a

in subsection (7)(a), for “or 303Z14” substitute  “, 303Z14, 303Z41, 303Z45 or
303Z60” ;

6.2.b

after subsection (7A) insert—

6.2.b.7B

If—

6.2.b.7B.a

an order is made under section 303Z44 instead of an order being made under
section 303Z41 for the forfeiture of recoverable property, and

6.2.b.7B.b

the enforcement authority subsequently seeks a recovery order in respect of
related property,

the order under section 303Z44 is to be treated for the purposes of this
section as if it were a recovery order obtained by the enforcement authority
in respect of the property that was the forfeitable property in relation to
the order under section 303Z44.

6.3

In section 290 (prior approval - cash), in subsection (6A)—

6.3.a

after “section 303J” insert  “,  303Z26  or  303Z29 ” ;

6.3.b

after “section 303K(5)” insert  “,  303Z27 (3)  or (as the case may be)
303Z31 (3) ” .

6.4

In section 303E (prior approval - listed assets), in subsection (7)—

6.4.a

after “section 294” insert  “or property by virtue of section  303Z26  or
303Z29 ” ;

6.4.b

after “cash”, in the second place it occurs, insert  “or property” ;

6.4.c

after “section 295(1B)” insert  “,  303Z27 (3)  or (as the case may be)
303Z31 (3) ” .

6.5

Before section 303Z18 (but after the italic heading “Supplementary”) insert—

############ Victims and other owners

6.5.303Z17A

6.5.303Z17A.1

A person who claims that money in respect of which an account freezing order
has effect belongs to them may apply for the money to be released.

6.5.303Z17A.2

An application under subsection  (1)  is to be made—

6.5.303Z17A.2.a

in England and Wales or Northern Ireland, to a magistrates’ court;

6.5.303Z17A.2.b

in Scotland, to the sheriff.

6.5.303Z17A.3

The application may be made in the course of proceedings under section 303Z3
or 303Z14 or at any other time.

6.5.303Z17A.4

The court or sheriff may, subject to subsection (8), order the money to which
the application relates to be released to the applicant if it appears to the
court or sheriff that—

6.5.303Z17A.4.a

the applicant was deprived of the money to which the application relates, or
of property which it represents, by unlawful conduct,

6.5.303Z17A.4.b

the money the applicant was deprived of was not, immediately before the
applicant was deprived of it, recoverable property, and

6.5.303Z17A.4.c

the money belongs to the applicant.

6.5.303Z17A.5

If subsection  (6)  applies, the court or sheriff may, subject to subsection
(8), order the money to which the application relates to be released to the
applicant.

6.5.303Z17A.6

This subsection applies where—

6.5.303Z17A.6.a

the applicant is not the person from whom the money to which the application
relates was seized,

6.5.303Z17A.6.b

it appears to the court or sheriff that the money belongs to the applicant,

6.5.303Z17A.6.c

the court or sheriff is satisfied that the release condition is met in
relation to the money, and

6.5.303Z17A.6.d

no objection to the making of an order under subsection  (5)  has been made by
the person from whom the money was seized.

6.5.303Z17A.7

The release condition is met—

6.5.303Z17A.7.a

in relation to money held in a frozen account, if the conditions for making an
order under section 303Z3 in relation to the money are no longer met, or

6.5.303Z17A.7.b

in relation to money held in a frozen account which is subject to an
application for forfeiture under section 303Z14, if the court or sheriff
decides not to make an order under that section in relation to the money.

6.5.303Z17A.8

Money is not to be released under this section—

6.5.303Z17A.8.a

if an account forfeiture notice under section 303Z9 is given in respect of the
money, until any proceedings in pursuance of the notice (including any
proceedings on appeal) are concluded;

6.5.303Z17A.8.b

if an application for its forfeiture under section 303Z14 is made, until any
proceedings in pursuance of the application (including any proceedings on
appeal) are concluded.

6.5.303Z17A.9

In relation to money held in an account that is subject to an account freezing
order, references in this section to a person from whom money was seized
include a reference to a person by or for whom the account was operated
immediately before the account freezing order was made.

6.6

After section 311 insert—

############ Chapters 3C to 3F: supplementary

############# Financial investigators

6.6.311A

6.6.311A.1

This section applies where an accredited financial investigator of a
particular description—

6.6.311A.1.a

applies for an order under section 303Z28, 303Z32, 303Z57 or 303Z58 (further
detention of cryptoassets etc),

6.6.311A.1.b

applies for forfeiture under section 303Z41 or 303Z60 (forfeiture of
cryptoassets etc), or

6.6.311A.1.c

brings an appeal under, or relating to, Chapter 3E or 3F (cryptoassets etc).

6.6.311A.2

Any subsequent step in the application or appeal, or any further application
or appeal relating to the same matter, may be taken, made or brought by a
different accredited financial investigator of the same description.

6.7

In section 312(2) (performance of functions by Scottish Ministers)—

6.7.a

in paragraph (c), for “271(3) and (4)” substitute  “271” , and

6.7.b

after paragraph (p) insert—

6.7.b.q

section  303Z20 (3)  (cryptoassets);

6.7.b.r

section  303Z25  (codes of practice);

6.7.b.s

section 303Z28(5)(b) (further detention of seized cryptoasset-related items);

6.7.b.t

section 303Z32(5)(b) (further detention of seized cryptoassets);

6.7.b.u

section 303Z34(4) and (5)(b)(i) (release of cryptoassets and cryptoasset-
related items);

6.7.b.v

section  303Z35 (5)  (crypto wallets);

6.7.b.w

section  303Z41 (2)(b)  (forfeiture of cryptoassets);

6.7.b.x

section  303Z42 (10)  (forfeiture of cryptoassets: supplementary);

6.7.b.y

section 303Z44 (agreements about associated and joint property);

6.7.b.z

section 303Z45(10) (associated and joint property: default of agreement);

6.7.b.z1

section 303Z46(2) (continuation of crypto wallet freezing order pending
appeal);

6.7.b.z2

section 303Z47(1) (sections 303Z41 to 303Z45: appeals);

6.7.b.z3

section  303Z57 (7)(b)  (detained cryptoassets: detention of proceeds of
conversion);

6.7.b.z4

section  303Z58 (6)(b)  (frozen crypto wallets: detention of proceeds of
conversion);

6.7.b.z5

section  303Z60 (2)  (forfeiture of converted cryptoassets);

6.7.b.z6

section 303Z61(1) (appeal against decision under section 303Z60).

7

In section 316(1) (general interpretation)—

7.a

in the definition of “the court”, for “and 3B” substitute  “, 3B, 3C, 3D, 3E
and 3F” ;

7.b

at the appropriate places insert—

“ cryptoasset ” has the meaning given by section  303Z20 ;

;

“ crypto wallet ” has the meaning given by section  303Z20 ;

;

“ justice of the peace ”, in relation to Northern Ireland, means lay
magistrate;

.

8

8.1

Part 8 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (investigations) is amended as
follows.

8.2

In section 341 (investigations), after subsection (3C) insert—

8.2.3D

For the purposes of this Part a cryptoasset investigation is an investigation
for the purposes of Chapter 3C, 3D, 3E or 3F of Part 5 and includes
investigation into—

8.2.3D.a

the derivation of cryptoassets detained under Chapter 3C (including where the
cryptoassets have been converted into money in accordance with Chapter 3F),

8.2.3D.b

whether cryptoassets or converted cryptoassets detained under Chapter 3C or 3F
are intended by any person to be used in unlawful conduct,

8.2.3D.c

the derivation of cryptoassets held in a crypto wallet in relation to which a
crypto wallet freezing order made under section  303Z37  has effect (including
where the cryptoassets have been converted into money in accordance with
Chapter 3F), or

8.2.3D.d

whether cryptoassets held in such a wallet are intended by any person to be
used in unlawful conduct.

8.3

In section 342 (offences of prejudicing investigation), in subsection (1)
after “frozen funds investigation” insert  “, a cryptoasset investigation” .

8.4

In section 343 (judges), in subsection (2) for “or a frozen funds
investigation” substitute  “, a frozen funds investigation or a cryptoasset
investigation” .

8.5

In section 344 (courts), in paragraph (a) for “or a frozen funds
investigation” substitute  “, a frozen funds investigation or a cryptoasset
investigation” .

8.6

In section 345 (production orders), in subsection (2)(b) for “or a frozen
funds investigation” substitute  “, a frozen funds investigation or a
cryptoasset investigation” .

8.7

In section 346 (requirements for making of production order), in subsection
(2), after paragraph (bf) insert—

8.7.bg

in the case of a cryptoasset investigation into the derivation of
cryptoassets, the cryptoassets the application for the order specifies as
being subject to the investigation (or, if the cryptoassets have been
converted into money in accordance with Chapter 3F of Part 5, the converted
cryptoassets) are recoverable property;

8.7.bh

in the case of a cryptoasset investigation into the intended use of
cryptoassets, the cryptoassets the application for the order specifies as
being subject to the investigation (or, if the cryptoassets have been
converted into money in accordance with Chapter 3F of Part 5, the converted
cryptoassets) are intended by any person to be used in unlawful conduct.

8.8

In section 350 (Government departments), in subsection (5)(a) for “or a frozen
funds investigation” substitute  “, a frozen funds investigation or a
cryptoasset investigation” .

8.9

In section 352 (search and seizure warrants), in subsection (2)(b) for “or a
frozen funds investigation” substitute  “, a frozen funds investigation or a
cryptoasset investigation” .

8.10

In section 353 (requirements where production order not available), in
subsection (2), after paragraph (bf) insert—

8.10.bg

in the case of a cryptoasset investigation into the derivation of
cryptoassets, the cryptoassets specfied in the application for the warrant
(or, if the cryptoassets have been converted into money in accordance with
Chapter 3F of Part 5, the converted cryptoassets) are recoverable property;

8.10.bh

in the case of a cryptoasset investigation into the intended use of
cryptoassets, the cryptoassets specified in the application for the warrant
(or, if the cryptoassets have been converted into money in accordance with
Chapter 3F of Part 5, the converted cryptoassets) are intended by any person
to be used in unlawful conduct.

8.11

Section 355 (further provisions) is amended as follows—

8.11.a

in the heading, for “and frozen funds” substitute  “, frozen funds and
cryptoasset” ;

8.11.b

in subsection (1)(a), for “or a frozen funds investigation” substitute  “, a
frozen funds investigation or a cryptoasset investigation” .

8.12

In section 357 (disclosure orders), in subsection (2) for “or a frozen funds
investigation” substitute  “, a frozen funds investigation or a cryptoasset
investigation” .

8.13

In section 363 (customer information orders), in subsection (1A) for “or a
frozen funds investigation” substitute  “, a frozen funds investigation or a
cryptoasset investigation” .

8.14

In section 370 (account monitoring orders), in subsection (1A) for “or a
frozen funds investigation” substitute  “, a frozen funds investigation or a
cryptoasset investigation” .

8.15

Section 375A (evidence overseas) is amended as follows—

8.15.a

in subsection (1), after “frozen funds investigation” insert  “, a cryptoasset
investigation” ;

8.15.b

in subsection (5), after paragraph (bb) insert—

8.15.b.bc

in relation to an application or request made for the purposes of a
cryptoasset investigation, evidence as to a matter described in section
341(3D)(a) to (d);

.

8.16

In section 375B (evidence overseas: restrictions on use), in subsection (3),
after paragraph (bb) insert—

8.16.bc

if the request was made for the purposes of a cryptoasset investigation,
proceedings under Chapter 3C, 3D, 3E or 3F of Part 5 of this Act arising out
of the investigation;

.

8.17

In section 378 (officers), after subsection (3F) insert—

8.17.3G

In relation to a cryptoasset investigation these are appropriate officers—

8.17.3G.a

a constable;

8.17.3G.b

an SFO officer;

8.17.3G.c

an accredited financial investigator who falls within a description specified
in an order made for the purposes of this paragraph by the Secretary of State
or the Welsh Ministers under section 453;

8.17.3G.d

an officer of Revenue and Customs.

8.17.3H

In relation to a cryptoasset investigation these are senior appropriate
officers—

8.17.3H.a

a police officer who is not below the rank of inspector;

8.17.3H.b

the Director of the Serious Fraud Office;

8.17.3H.c

an accredited financial investigator who falls within a description specified
in an order made for the purposes of this paragraph by the Secretary of State
or the Welsh Ministers under section 453;

8.17.3H.d

an officer of Revenue and Customs who is not below such grade as is designated
by the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs as equivalent to
the police rank of inspector.

8.18

In section 380 (production orders)—

8.18.a

in subsection (2), for “or a frozen funds investigation” substitute  “, a
frozen funds investigation or a cryptoasset investigation” ;

8.18.b

in subsection (3)(b), for “or a frozen funds investigation” substitute  “, a
frozen funds investigation or a cryptoasset investigation” .

8.19

In section 381 (requirements for making of production order), in subsection
(2), after paragraph (bf) insert—

8.19.bg

in the case of a cryptoasset investigation into the derivation of
cryptoassets, the cryptoassets the application for the order specifies as
being subject to the investigation (or, if the cryptoassets have been
converted into money in accordance with Chapter 3F of Part 5, the converted
cryptoassets) are recoverable property;

8.19.bh

in the case of a cryptoasset investigation into the intended use of
cryptoassets, the cryptoassets the application for the order specifies as
being subject to the investigation (or, if the cryptoassets have been
converted into money in accordance with Chapter 3F of Part 5, the converted
cryptoassets) are intended by any person to be used in unlawful conduct.

8.20

In section 385 (Government departments), in subsection (4)(b) for “or a frozen
funds investigation” substitute  “, a frozen funds investigation or a
cryptoasset investigation” .

8.21

In section 386 (production orders: supplementary), in subsection (3)(b), for
“or a frozen funds investigation” substitute  “, a frozen funds investigation
or a cryptoasset investigation” .

8.22

In section 387 (search warrants), in subsection (3)(b) for “or a frozen funds
investigation” substitute  “, a frozen funds investigation or a cryptoasset
investigation” .

8.23

In section 388 (requirements where production order not available), in
subsection (2), after paragraph (bf) insert—

8.23.bg

in the case of a cryptoasset investigation into the derivation of
cryptoassets, the cryptoassets specfied in the application for the warrant
(or, if the cryptoassets have been converted into money in accordance with
Chapter 3F of Part 5, the converted cryptoassets) are recoverable property;

8.23.bh

in the case of a cryptoasset investigation into the intended use of
cryptoassets, the cryptoassets specified in the application for the warrant
(or, if the cryptoassets have been converted into money in accordance with
Chapter 3F of Part 5, the converted cryptoassets) are intended by any person
to be used in unlawful conduct.

8.24

Section 390 (further provisions) is amended as follows—

8.24.a

in the heading, for “and money laundering” substitute  “, money laundering and
cryptoasset” ;

8.24.b

in subsection (1), for “or money laundering investigations” substitute  “,
money laundering investigations or cryptoasset investigations” ;

8.24.c

in subsections (5), (6) and (7), for “or a frozen funds investigation”
substitute  “, a frozen funds investigation or a cryptoasset investigation” .

8.25

In section 391 (disclosure orders), in subsection (2) for “or a frozen funds
investigation” substitute  “, a frozen funds investigation or a cryptoasset
investigation” .

8.26

In section 397 (customer information orders), in subsection (1A) for “or a
frozen funds investigation” substitute  “, a frozen funds investigation or a
cryptoasset investigation” .

8.27

In section 404 (account monitoring orders), in subsection (1A) for “or a
frozen funds investigation” substitute  “, a frozen funds investigation or a
cryptoasset investigation” .

8.28

Section 408A (evidence overseas) is amended as follows—

8.28.a

in subsection (1), for “or a frozen funds investigation” substitute  “, a
frozen funds investigation or a cryptoasset investigation” ;

8.28.b

in subsection (5), after paragraph (d) insert—

8.28.b.e

in relation to an application or request made for the purposes of a
cryptoasset investigation, evidence as to a matter described in section
341(3D)(a) to (d);

.

8.29

In section 408B (evidence overseas: restrictions on use) in subsection (3),
after paragraph (d) insert—

8.29.e

if the request was made for the purposes of a cryptoasset investigation,
proceedings under Chapter 3C, 3D, 3E or 3F of Part 5 of this Act arising out
of the investigation;

.

8.30

In section 412 (interpretation)—

8.30.a

in the definition of “appropriate person”, in paragraph (b), for “or a frozen
funds investigation” substitute  “, a frozen funds investigation or a
cryptoasset investigation” ;

8.30.b

in the definition of “proper person”, in paragraph (b), for “or a frozen funds
investigation” substitute  “, a frozen funds investigation or a cryptoasset
investigation” .

8.31

In section 416 (other interpretative provisions), in subsection (1), after the
entry for “confiscation investigation” insert—

cryptoasset investigation: section 341(3D)

.

9

In section 438 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (disclosure of information by
certain authorities), in subsection (1)(f), for “or 3B” substitute  “, 3B, 3C,
3D, 3E or 3F” .

10

In section 441 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (disclosure of information by
Lord Advocate and by Scottish Ministers)—

10.a

in subsection (1), for “or 3A” substitute  “, 3A, 3C or 3F” ;

10.b

in subsection (2)(g), for “or 3B” substitute  “, 3B, 3C, 3D, 3E or 3F” .

11

In section 450 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (pseudonyms: Scotland), in
subsection (1)(a), for “or a frozen funds investigation” substitute  “, a
frozen funds investigation or a cryptoasset investigation” .

12

In section 453A of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (certain offences in
relation to financial investigators), in subsection (5), at the end of
paragraph (dc) (before the “or”) insert—

12.dd

section 303Z21 (powers to search for cryptoasset-related items);

12.de

section 303Z26 (powers to seize cryptoasset-related items);

12.df

section 303Z27 (powers to detain cryptoasset-related items);

.

13

In section 453B of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (certain offences in
relation to SFO officers), in subsection (5), after paragraph (g) insert—

13.ga

section 303Z21 (powers to search for cryptoasset-related items);

13.gb

section 303Z26 (powers to seize cryptoasset-related items);

13.gc

section 303Z27 (powers to detain cryptoasset-related items);

.

14

In section 453C of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (obstruction offence in
relation to immigration officers), in subsection (3), after paragraph (g)
insert—

14.ga

section 303Z21 (powers to search for cryptoasset-related items) as applied by
section 24 of the UK Borders Act 2007 (exercise of civil recovery powers by
immigration officers);

14.gb

section 303Z26 as so applied (powers to seize cryptoasset-related items);

14.gc

section 303Z27 as so applied (powers to detain cryptoasset-related items);

.

15

15.1

Section 459 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (orders and regulations) is
amended as follows.

15.2

In subsection (4)(aza) (exceptions to negative procedure), for “or 303Z18(10)”
substitute  “, 303Z18(10),  303Z20 (2) ,  303Z35 (4) ,  303Z42 (7) ,  303Z52
(10)  or  303Z64 (10) ” .

15.3

In subsection (6ZB) (application of affirmative procedure), for “or
303Z18(10)” substitute  “, 303Z18(10),  303Z20 (2) ,  303Z35 (4) ,  303Z42 (7)
,  303Z52 (10)  or  303Z64 (10) ” .

15.4

In subsection (6A) (hybrid instruments), for “or 303Z18(10)” substitute  “,
303Z18(10),  303Z52 (10)  or  303Z64 (10) ” .

###### Amendments to the Civil Jurisdiction and Judgments Act 1982

16

16.1

Section 18 of the Civil Jurisdiction and Judgments Act 1982 (enforcement of UK
judgments in other parts of UK) is amended as follows.

16.2

In subsection (2)(g), for “or a frozen funds investigation” substitute  “, a
frozen funds investigation or a cryptoasset investigation” .

16.3

In subsection (4ZB)—

16.3.a

after paragraph (b) insert—

16.3.a.ba

a crypto wallet freezing order made under section 303Z37 of that Act;

16.3.a.bb

an order for the forfeiture of cryptoassets made under section 303Z41 or
303Z45 of that Act;

;

16.3.b

after paragraph (d) insert—

16.3.b.da

a crypto wallet freezing order made under paragraph 10Z7BB of that Schedule;

16.3.b.db

an order for the forfeiture of cryptoassets made under paragraph 10Z7CA or
10Z7CE of that Schedule.

16.4

In subsection (5)(d)(i)—

16.4.a

after “(a)” insert  “, (ba)” ;

16.4.b

for “or (c)” substitute  “, (c) or (da)” .

###### Amendments to the UK Borders Act 2007

17

17.1

Section 24 of the UK Borders Act 2007 (exercise of civil recovery powers by
immigration officers) is amended as follows.

17.2

In subsection (1), for “3B” substitute  “3F” .

17.3

In subsection (2)(a), for “Chapter 3B” substitute  “Chapters 3B to 3F” .

17.4

In subsection (2)(c), after “303Z2(4))” insert  “, Chapter 3C (see section
303Z20(4)), Chapter 3D (see section 303Z36(8)) and Chapter 3E (see section
303Z41(9))” .

17.5

In subsection (2)(d), after “303G” insert  “(including as section 303G is
applied by section 303Z25)” .

17.6

In subsection (2)(e), after “303I” insert  “(including as sections 303H and
303I are applied by section 303Z25)” .

17.7

In subsection (2)(f)—

17.7.a

in the opening words, for “or 303L(1)” substitute  “, 303L(1), 303Z28(1) or
(4), 303Z32(1) or (4) or 303Z57(3) or (5)” ;

17.7.b

in sub-paragraph (ii), for “or (as the case may be) 303O” substitute  “, 303O,
303Z41 or (as the case may be) 303Z60” .

17.8

In subsection (2)(g), for “or 303Z14” substitute  “, 303Z14, 303Z41 or 303Z60”
.

17.9

In subsection (2)(h), for “or 303Z18” substitute  “, 303Z18, 303Z52 or 303Z64”
.

Cryptoassets: terrorism

Section 181

##### Amendments to the Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001

1

Schedule 1 to the Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001 (forfeiture of
terrorist property) is amended as follows.

2

After Part 4B insert—

######### Seizure and detention of terrorist cryptoassets

########## Interpretation

2.10Z7A

2.10Z7A.1

In this Schedule—

“ cryptoasset ” means a cryptographically secured digital representation of
value or contractual rights that uses a form of distributed ledger technology
and can be transferred, stored or traded electronically; “ crypto wallet ”
means— software, hardware, a physical item, or any combination of the things
mentioned in paragraphs  (a)  to  (c) , which is used to store the
cryptographic private key that allows cryptoassets to be accessed; “ terrorist
cryptoasset ” means a cryptoasset which— is within subsection (1)(a) or (b) of
section 1, or is earmarked as terrorist property.

2.10Z7A.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument amend
the definitions of “cryptoasset” and “crypto wallet” in sub-paragraph  (1) .

2.10Z7A.3

Regulations under sub-paragraph  (2) —

2.10Z7A.3.a

may make different provision for different purposes;

2.10Z7A.3.b

may make consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional, transitory or
saving provision.

2.10Z7A.4

A statutory instrument containing regulations under sub-paragraph  (2)  may
not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved
by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

2.10Z7A.5

In this Part—

“ cryptoasset-related item ” means an item of property that is, or that
contains or gives access to information that is, likely to assist in the
seizure under this Part of terrorist cryptoassets; “ senior officer ” means— a
senior police officer; an officer of Revenue and Customs of a rank designated
by the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs as equivalent to
that of a senior police officer; an immigration officer of a rank designated
by the Secretary of State as equivalent to that of a senior police officer; “
senior police officer ” means a police officer of at least the rank of
superintendent.

########## Seizure of cryptoasset-related items

2.10Z7AA

2.10Z7AA.1

An authorised officer may seize any item of property if the authorised officer
has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the item is a cryptoasset-related
item.

2.10Z7AA.2

If an authorised officer is lawfully on any premises, the officer may, for the
purpose of—

2.10Z7AA.2.a

determining whether any property is a cryptoasset-related item, or

2.10Z7AA.2.b

enabling or facilitating the seizure under this Part of any terrorist
cryptoasset,

require any information which is stored in any electronic form and accessible
from the premises to be produced in a form in which it can be taken away and
in which it is visible and legible, or from which it can readily be produced
in a visible and legible form.

2.10Z7AA.3

But sub-paragraph  (2)  does not authorise an authorised officer to require a
person to produce privileged information.

2.10Z7AA.4

In this paragraph “ privileged information ” means information which a person
would be entitled to refuse to provide—

2.10Z7AA.4.a

in England and Wales and Northern Ireland, on grounds of legal professional
privilege in proceedings in the High Court;

2.10Z7AA.4.b

in Scotland, on grounds of confidentiality of communications in proceedings in
the Court of Session.

2.10Z7AA.5

Where an authorised officer has seized a cryptoasset-related item under sub-
paragraph  (1) , the officer may use any information obtained from the item
for the purpose of—

2.10Z7AA.5.a

identifying or gaining access to a crypto wallet, and

2.10Z7AA.5.b

by doing so, enabling or facilitating the seizure under this Part of any
cryptoassets.

########## Initial detention of cryptoasset-related items

2.10Z7AB

2.10Z7AB.1

Property seized under paragraph  10Z7AA  may be detained for an initial period
of 48 hours.

2.10Z7AB.2

Sub-paragraph  (1)  authorises the detention of property only for so long as
an authorised officer continues to have reasonable grounds for suspicion in
relation to that property as described in paragraph  10Z7AA (1) .

2.10Z7AB.3

In calculating a period of 48 hours for the purposes of this paragraph, no
account is to be taken of—

2.10Z7AB.3.a

any Saturday or Sunday,

2.10Z7AB.3.b

Christmas Day,

2.10Z7AB.3.c

Good Friday,

2.10Z7AB.3.d

any day that is a bank holiday under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act
1971 in the part of the United Kingdom within which the property is seized, or

2.10Z7AB.3.e

any day prescribed by virtue of section 8(2) of the Criminal Procedure
(Scotland) Act 1995 as a court holiday in a sheriff court in the sheriff court
district within which the property is seized.

########## Further detention of cryptoasset-related items

2.10Z7AC

2.10Z7AC.1

The period for which property seized under paragraph  10Z7AA  may be detained
may be extended by an order made—

2.10Z7AC.1.a

in England and Wales or Northern Ireland, by a magistrates’ court;

2.10Z7AC.1.b

in Scotland, by the sheriff.

2.10Z7AC.2

An order under sub-paragraph  (1)  may not authorise the detention of any
property—

2.10Z7AC.2.a

beyond the end of the period of 6 months beginning with the date of the order,
and

2.10Z7AC.2.b

in the case of any further order under this paragraph, beyond the end of the
period of 2 years beginning with the date of the first order; but this is
subject to sub-paragraph  (4) .

2.10Z7AC.3

A justice of the peace may also exercise the power of a magistrates’ court to
make the first order under sub-paragraph  (1) .

2.10Z7AC.4

The court or sheriff may make an order for the period of 2 years in sub-
paragraph  (2)(b)  to be extended to a period of up to 3 years beginning with
the date of the first order.

2.10Z7AC.5

An application to a magistrates’ court, a justice of the peace or the sheriff
to make the first order under sub-paragraph  (1)  extending a particular
period of detention—

2.10Z7AC.5.a

may be made and heard without notice of the application or hearing having been
given to any of the persons affected by the application or to the legal
representatives of such a person, and

2.10Z7AC.5.b

may be heard and determined in private in the absence of persons so affected
and of their legal representatives.

2.10Z7AC.6

An application for an order under sub-paragraph  (1)  or  (4)  may be made—

2.10Z7AC.6.a

in relation to England and Wales and Northern Ireland, by the Commissioners
for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs or an authorised officer;

2.10Z7AC.6.b

in relation to Scotland, by a procurator fiscal.

2.10Z7AC.7

The court, sheriff or justice may make an order under sub-paragraph  (1)  if
satisfied, in relation to the item of property to be further detained, that—

2.10Z7AC.7.a

there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that it is a cryptoasset-related
item, and

2.10Z7AC.7.b

its continuing detention is justified.

2.10Z7AC.8

The court or sheriff may make an order under sub-paragraph  (4)  if satisfied
that a request for assistance is outstanding in relation to the item of
property to be further detained.

2.10Z7AC.9

A “request for assistance” in sub-paragraph  (8)  means a request for
assistance in obtaining evidence (including information in any form or
article) in connection with the property to be further detained, made —

2.10Z7AC.9.a

by a judicial authority in the United Kingdom under section 7 of the Crime
(International Co-operation) Act 2003,

2.10Z7AC.9.b

by an authorised officer, to an authority exercising equivalent functions in a
foreign country,

2.10Z7AC.9.c

by the Scottish Ministers in connection with their functions under this
Schedule, to an authority exercising equivalent functions in a foreign
country, or

2.10Z7AC.9.d

by a person under section 375A or 408A of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002
(evidence overseas).

2.10Z7AC.10

An order under sub-paragraph  (1)  must provide for notice to be given to
persons affected by the order.

########## Seizure of cryptoassets

2.10Z7AD

2.10Z7AD.1

An authorised officer may seize cryptoassets if the authorised officer has
reasonable grounds for suspecting that the cryptoassets are terrorist
cryptoassets.

2.10Z7AD.2

The circumstances in which a cryptoasset is “ seized ” for the purposes of
sub-paragraph  (1)  include circumstances in which it is transferred into a
crypto wallet controlled by the authorised officer.

########## Prior authorisation for detention of cryptoassets

2.10Z7AE

2.10Z7AE.1

Where an order is made under paragraph  10Z7AC  in respect of a cryptoasset-
related item, the court, sheriff or justice making the order may, at the same
time, make an order to authorise the detention of any cryptoassets that may be
seized as a result of information obtained from that item.

2.10Z7AE.2

An application for an order under this paragraph may be made, by a person
mentioned in paragraph  10Z7AC (6) , at the same time as an application for an
order under paragraph  10Z7AC  is made by that person.

2.10Z7AE.3

The court, sheriff or justice may make an order under this paragraph if
satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the
cryptoassets that may be seized are terrorist cryptoassets.

2.10Z7AE.4

An order under this paragraph authorises detention of the cryptoassets for the
same period of time as the order under paragraph  10Z7AC  authorises detention
in respect of the cryptoasset-related item to which those cryptoassets relate.

########## Initial detention of cryptoassets

2.10Z7AF

2.10Z7AF.1

Cryptoassets seized under paragraph  10Z7AD  may be detained for an initial
period of 48 hours.

2.10Z7AF.2

Sub-paragraph  (1)  authorises the detention of cryptoassets only for so long
as an authorised officer continues to have reasonable grounds for suspicion in
relation to those cryptoassets as described in paragraph  10Z7AD (1) .

2.10Z7AF.3

In calculating a period of 48 hours for the purposes of this paragraph, no
account is to be taken of—

2.10Z7AF.3.a

any Saturday or Sunday,

2.10Z7AF.3.b

Christmas Day,

2.10Z7AF.3.c

Good Friday,

2.10Z7AF.3.d

any day that is a bank holiday under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act
1971 in the part of the United Kingdom within which the property is seized, or

2.10Z7AF.3.e

any day prescribed by virtue of section 8(2) of the Criminal Procedure
(Scotland) Act 1995 as a court holiday in a sheriff court in the sheriff court
district within which the property is seized.

2.10Z7AF.4

This paragraph is subject to paragraph  10Z7AE .

########## Further detention of cryptoassets

2.10Z7AG

2.10Z7AG.1

The period for which cryptoassets seized under paragraph  10Z7AD  may be
detained may be extended by an order made—

2.10Z7AG.1.a

in England and Wales or Northern Ireland, by a magistrates’ court;

2.10Z7AG.1.b

in Scotland, by the sheriff.

2.10Z7AG.2

An order under sub-paragraph  (1)  may not authorise the detention of any
cryptoassets—

2.10Z7AG.2.a

beyond the end of the period of 6 months beginning with the date of the order,
and

2.10Z7AG.2.b

in the case of any further order under this paragraph, beyond the end of the
period of 2 years beginning with the date of the first order; but this is
subject to sub-paragraph  (4) .

2.10Z7AG.3

A justice of the peace may also exercise the power of a magistrates’ court to
make the first order under sub-paragraph  (1) .

2.10Z7AG.4

The court or sheriff may make an order for the period of 2 years in sub-
paragraph  (2)(b)  to be extended to a period of up to 3 years beginning with
the date of the first order.

2.10Z7AG.5

An application to a magistrates’ court, a justice of the peace or the sheriff
to make the first order under sub-paragraph  (1)  extending a particular
period of detention—

2.10Z7AG.5.a

may be made and heard without notice of the application or hearing having been
given to any of the persons affected by the application or to the legal
representatives of such a person, and

2.10Z7AG.5.b

may be heard and determined in private in the absence of persons so affected
and of their legal representatives.

2.10Z7AG.6

An application for an order under sub-paragraph  (1)  or  (4)  may be made—

2.10Z7AG.6.a

in relation to England and Wales and Northern Ireland, by the Commissioners
for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs or an authorised officer;

2.10Z7AG.6.b

in relation to Scotland, by a procurator fiscal.

2.10Z7AG.7

The court, sheriff or justice may make an order under sub-paragraph  (1)  if
satisfied, in relation to the cryptoassets to be further detained, that
condition 1, condition 2 or condition 3 is met.

2.10Z7AG.8

Condition 1 is that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the
cryptoassets are intended to be used for the purposes of terrorism and that
either—

2.10Z7AG.8.a

their continued detention is justified while their intended use is further
investigated or consideration is given to bringing (in the United Kingdom or
elsewhere) proceedings against any person for an offence with which the
cryptoassets are connected, or

2.10Z7AG.8.b

proceedings against any person for an offence with which the cryptoassets are
connected have been started and have not been concluded.

2.10Z7AG.9

Condition 2 is that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the
cryptoassets consist of resources of an organisation which is a proscribed
organisation and that either—

2.10Z7AG.9.a

their continued detention is justified while investigation is made into
whether or not they consist of such resources or consideration is given to
bringing (in the United Kingdom or elsewhere) proceedings against any person
for an offence with which the cryptoassets are connected, or

2.10Z7AG.9.b

proceedings against any person for an offence with which the cryptoassets are
connected have been started and have not been concluded.

2.10Z7AG.10

Condition 3 is that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the
cryptoassets are property earmarked as terrorist property and that either—

2.10Z7AG.10.a

their continued detention is justified while their derivation is further
investigated or consideration is given to bringing (in the United Kingdom or
elsewhere) proceedings against any person for an offence with which the
cryptoassets are connected, or

2.10Z7AG.10.b

proceedings against any person for an offence with which the cryptoassets are
connected have been started and have not been concluded.

2.10Z7AG.11

The court or sheriff may make an order under sub-paragraph  (4)  if satisfied
that a request for assistance is outstanding in relation to the cryptoassets
to be further detained.

2.10Z7AG.12

A “request for assistance” in sub-paragraph  (11)  means a request for
assistance in obtaining evidence (including information in any form or
article) in connection with the property to be further detained, made —

2.10Z7AG.12.a

by a judicial authority in the United Kingdom under section 7 of the Crime
(International Co-operation) Act 2003,

2.10Z7AG.12.b

by an authorised officer, to an authority exercising equivalent functions in a
foreign country,

2.10Z7AG.12.c

by the Scottish Ministers in connection with their functions under this
Schedule, to an authority exercising equivalent functions in a foreign
country, or

2.10Z7AG.12.d

by a person under section 375A or 408A of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002
(evidence overseas).

2.10Z7AG.13

An order under sub-paragraph  (1)  must provide for notice to be given to
persons affected by the order.

########## Safekeeping of cryptoasset-related items and cryptoassets

2.10Z7AH

2.10Z7AH.1

An authorised officer must arrange for any item of property seized under
paragraph  10Z7AA  to be safely stored throughout the period during which it
is detained under this Part.

2.10Z7AH.2

An authorised officer must arrange for any cryptoassets seized under paragraph
10Z7AD  to be safely stored throughout the period during which they are
detained under this Part.

########## Release of cryptoasset-related items and cryptoassets

2.10Z7AI

2.10Z7AI.1

This paragraph applies while any cryptoasset or other item of property is
detained under this Part.

2.10Z7AI.2

A magistrates’ court or (in Scotland) the sheriff may, subject to sub-
paragraph  (9) , direct the release of the whole or any part of the property
if the following condition is met.

2.10Z7AI.3

The condition is that the court or sheriff is satisfied, on an application by
the person from whom the property was seized, that the conditions for the
detention of the property in this Part are no longer met in relation to the
property to be released.

2.10Z7AI.4

A person within sub-paragraph  (5)  may, subject to sub-paragraph  (9)  and
after notifying the magistrates’ court, sheriff or justice under whose order
property is being detained, release the whole or any part of the property if
satisfied that the detention of the property to be released is no longer
justified.

2.10Z7AI.5

The following persons are within this sub-paragraph—

2.10Z7AI.5.a

in relation to England and Wales and Northern Ireland, an authorised officer;

2.10Z7AI.5.b

in relation to Scotland, a procurator fiscal.

2.10Z7AI.6

If any cryptoasset-related item which has been released is not claimed within
the period of a year beginning with the date on which it was released, an
authorised officer may—

2.10Z7AI.6.a

retain the item and deal with it as they see fit,

2.10Z7AI.6.b

dispose of the item, or

2.10Z7AI.6.c

destroy the item.

2.10Z7AI.7

The powers in sub-paragraph  (6)  may be exercised only—

2.10Z7AI.7.a

where the authorised officer has taken reasonable steps to notify—

2.10Z7AI.7.a.i

the person from whom the item was seized, and

2.10Z7AI.7.a.ii

any other persons who the authorised officer has reasonable grounds to believe
have an interest in the item,

that the item has been released, and

2.10Z7AI.7.b

with the approval of a senior officer.

2.10Z7AI.8

Any proceeds of a disposal of the item are to be paid—

2.10Z7AI.8.a

into the Consolidated Fund if—

2.10Z7AI.8.a.i

the item was directed to be released by a magistrates’ court, or

2.10Z7AI.8.a.ii

a magistrates’ court or justice was notified under sub-paragraph  (4)  of the
release;

2.10Z7AI.8.b

into the Scottish Consolidated Fund if—

2.10Z7AI.8.b.i

the item was directed to be released by the sheriff, or

2.10Z7AI.8.b.ii

the sheriff was notified under sub-paragraph  (4)  of the release.

2.10Z7AI.9

If (in the United Kingdom or elsewhere) proceedings are started against any
person for an offence with which the property is connected, the property is
not to be released under this paragraph (and so is to continue to be detained)
until the proceedings are concluded.

######### Terrorist cryptoassets: crypto wallet freezing orders

########## Interpretation

2.10Z7B

2.10Z7B.1

In this Part—

2.10Z7B.1.a

“ cryptoasset exchange provider ” means a firm or sole practitioner who by way
of business provides one or more of the following services, including where
the firm or sole practitioner does so as creator or issuer of any of the
cryptoassets involved—

2.10Z7B.1.a.i

exchanging, or arranging or making arrangements with a view to the exchange
of, cryptoassets for money or money for cryptoassets,

2.10Z7B.1.a.ii

exchanging, or arranging or making arrangements with a view to the exchange
of, one cryptoasset for another, or

2.10Z7B.1.a.iii

operating a machine which utilises automated processes to exchange
cryptoassets for money or money for cryptoassets;

2.10Z7B.1.b

“ custodian wallet provider ” means a firm or sole practitioner who by way of
business provides services to safeguard, or to safeguard and administer—

2.10Z7B.1.b.i

cryptoassets on behalf of its customers, or

2.10Z7B.1.b.ii

private cryptographic keys on behalf of its customers in order to hold, store
and transfer cryptoassets;

2.10Z7B.1.c

“ cryptoasset service provider ” includes cryptoasset exchange provider and
custodian wallet provider.

2.10Z7B.2

In the definition of “cryptoasset exchange provider” in sub-paragraph  (1) —

2.10Z7B.2.a

“ cryptoasset ” includes a right to, or interest in, a cryptoasset;

2.10Z7B.2.b

“ money ” means—

2.10Z7B.2.b.i

money in sterling,

2.10Z7B.2.b.ii

money in any other currency, or

2.10Z7B.2.b.iii

money in any other medium of exchange,

but does not include a cryptoasset.

2.10Z7B.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument amend
the definitions in sub-paragraphs  (1)  and  (2) .

2.10Z7B.4

Regulations under sub-paragraph  (3) —

2.10Z7B.4.a

may make different provision for different purposes;

2.10Z7B.4.b

may make consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional, transitory or
saving provision.

2.10Z7B.5

A statutory instrument containing regulations under sub-paragraph  (3)  may
not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved
by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

2.10Z7B.6

For the purposes of this Part—

2.10Z7B.6.a

a crypto wallet freezing order is an order that, subject to any exclusions
(see paragraph  10Z7BD ), prohibits each person by or for whom the crypto
wallet to which the order applies is administered from—

2.10Z7B.6.a.i

making withdrawals or payments from the crypto wallet, or

2.10Z7B.6.a.ii

using the crypto wallet in any other way;

2.10Z7B.6.b

a crypto wallet is administered by or for a person if the person is the person
to whom services are being provided by a cryptoasset service provider in
relation to that crypto wallet.

2.10Z7B.7

In this Part—

“ enforcement officer ” means— a constable, or a counter-terrorism financial
investigator; “ relevant court ” means— in England and Wales and Northern
Ireland, a magistrates’ court, and in Scotland, the sheriff; “ senior officer
” means a police officer of at least the rank of superintendent; “ UK-
connected cryptoasset service provider ” means a cryptoasset service provider
which— is acting in the course of business carried on by it in the United
Kingdom, has terms and conditions with the persons to whom it provides
services which provide for a legal dispute to be litigated in the courts of a
part of the United Kingdom, holds, in the United Kingdom, any data relating to
the persons to whom it provides services, or meets the condition in sub-
paragraph  (8) .

2.10Z7B.8

The condition in this sub-paragraph is that—

2.10Z7B.8.a

the cryptoasset service provider has its registered office, or if it does not
have one, its head office in the United Kingdom, and

2.10Z7B.8.b

the day-to-day management of the provider’s business is the responsibility of
that office or another establishment maintained by it in the United Kingdom.

########## Application for crypto wallet freezing order

2.10Z7BA

2.10Z7BA.1

This paragraph applies if an enforcement officer has reasonable grounds for
suspecting that cryptoassets held in a crypto wallet administered by a UK-
connected cryptoasset service provider are terrorist cryptoassets.

2.10Z7BA.2

Where this paragraph applies the enforcement officer may apply to the relevant
court for a crypto wallet freezing order in relation to the crypto wallet in
which the cryptoassets are held.

2.10Z7BA.3

But—

2.10Z7BA.3.a

an enforcement officer may not apply for a crypto wallet freezing order unless
the officer is a senior officer or is authorised to do so by a senior officer,
and

2.10Z7BA.3.b

the senior officer must consult the Treasury before making the application for
the order or (as the case may be) authorising the application to be made,
unless in the circumstances it is not reasonably practicable to do so.

2.10Z7BA.4

An application for a crypto wallet freezing order may be made without notice
if the circumstances of the case are such that notice of the application would
prejudice the taking of any steps under this Schedule to forfeit cryptoassets
that are terrorist cryptoassets.

2.10Z7BA.5

An application for a crypto wallet freezing order under this paragraph may be
combined with an application for an account freezing order under paragraph 10Q
where a single entity—

2.10Z7BA.5.a

is both a relevant financial institution for the purposes of paragraph 10Q and
a cryptoasset service provider for the purposes of this Part, and

2.10Z7BA.5.b

operates or administers, for the same person, both an account holding money
and a crypto wallet.

########## Making of crypto wallet freezing order

2.10Z7BB

2.10Z7BB.1

This paragraph applies where an application for a crypto wallet freezing order
is made under paragraph  10Z7BA  in relation to a crypto wallet.

2.10Z7BB.2

The relevant court may make the order if satisfied that there are reasonable
grounds for suspecting that some or all of the cryptoassets held in the crypto
wallet are terrorist cryptoassets.

2.10Z7BB.3

A crypto wallet freezing order ceases to have effect at the end of the period
specified in the order (which may be varied under paragraph  10Z7BC ) unless
it ceases to have effect at an earlier or later time in accordance with this
Part or Part 4BC or 4BD.

2.10Z7BB.4

The period specified by the relevant court for the purposes of sub-paragraph
(3)  (whether when the order is first made or on a variation under paragraph
10Z7BC ) may not exceed the period of 2 years, beginning with the day on which
the crypto wallet freezing order is (or was) made; but this is subject to sub-
paragraph  (5) .

2.10Z7BB.5

The relevant court may make an order for the period of 2 years in sub-
paragraph  (4)  to be extended to a period of up to 3 years beginning with the
day on which the crypto wallet freezing order is (or was) made.

2.10Z7BB.6

The relevant court may make an order under sub-paragraph  (5)  if satisfied
that a request for assistance is outstanding in relation to some or all of the
cryptoassets held in the crypto wallet.

2.10Z7BB.7

A “request for assistance” in sub-paragraph  (6)  means a request for
assistance in obtaining evidence (including information in any form or
article) in connection with some or all of the cryptoassets held in the crypto
wallet, made—

2.10Z7BB.7.a

by a judicial authority in the United Kingdom under section 7 of the Crime
(International Co-operation) Act 2003,

2.10Z7BB.7.b

by an enforcement officer, to an authority exercising equivalent functions in
a foreign country,

2.10Z7BB.7.c

by the Scottish Ministers in connection with their functions under this
Schedule, to an authority exercising equivalent functions in a foreign
country, or

2.10Z7BB.7.d

by a person under section 375A or 408A of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002
(evidence overseas).

2.10Z7BB.8

A crypto wallet freezing order must provide for notice to be given to persons
affected by the order.

########## Variation and setting aside of crypto wallet freezing order

2.10Z7BC

2.10Z7BC.1

The relevant court may at any time vary or set aside a crypto wallet freezing
order on an application made by—

2.10Z7BC.1.a

an enforcement officer, or

2.10Z7BC.1.b

any person affected by the order.

2.10Z7BC.2

But an enforcement officer may not make an application under sub-paragraph
(1)  unless the officer is a senior officer or is authorised to do so by a
senior officer.

2.10Z7BC.3

Before varying or setting aside a crypto wallet freezing order the court must
(as well as giving the parties to the proceedings an opportunity to be heard)
give such an opportunity to any person who may be affected by its decision.

2.10Z7BC.4

In relation to Scotland, the references in this paragraph to setting aside an
order are to be read as references to recalling it.

########## Exclusions

2.10Z7BD

2.10Z7BD.1

The power to vary a crypto wallet freezing order includes (amongst other
things) power to make exclusions from the prohibition on making withdrawals or
payments from the crypto wallet to which the order applies.

2.10Z7BD.2

Exclusions from the prohibition may also be made when the order is made.

2.10Z7BD.3

An exclusion may (amongst other things) make provision for the purpose of
enabling a person by or for whom the crypto wallet is administered—

2.10Z7BD.3.a

to meet the person’s reasonable living expenses, or

2.10Z7BD.3.b

to carry on any trade, business, profession or occupation.

2.10Z7BD.4

An exclusion may be made subject to conditions.

2.10Z7BD.5

Where a magistrates’ court exercises the power to make an exclusion for the
purpose of enabling a person to meet legal expenses that the person has
incurred, or may incur, in respect of proceedings under this Schedule, it must
ensure that the exclusion—

2.10Z7BD.5.a

is limited to reasonable legal expenses that the person has reasonably
incurred or that the person reasonably incurs,

2.10Z7BD.5.b

specifies the total amount that may be released for legal expenses in
pursuance of the exclusion, and

2.10Z7BD.5.c

is made subject to the same conditions as would be the required conditions
(see section 286A of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002) if the order had been
made under section 245A of that Act (in addition to any conditions imposed
under sub-paragraph  (4) ).

2.10Z7BD.6

A magistrates’ court, in deciding whether to make an exclusion for the purpose
of enabling a person to meet legal expenses in respect of proceedings under
this Schedule—

2.10Z7BD.6.a

must have regard to the desirability of the person being represented in any
proceedings under this Schedule in which the person is a participant, and

2.10Z7BD.6.b

must disregard the possibility that legal representation of the person in any
such proceedings might, were an exclusion not made—

2.10Z7BD.6.b.i

be made available under arrangements made for the purposes of Part 1 of the
Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012, or

2.10Z7BD.6.b.ii

be funded by the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland.

2.10Z7BD.7

The sheriff’s power to make exclusions may not be exercised for the purpose of
enabling any person to meet any legal expenses in respect of proceedings under
this Schedule.

2.10Z7BD.8

The power to make exclusions must, subject to sub-paragraph  (6) , be
exercised with a view to ensuring, so far as practicable, that there is not
undue prejudice to the taking of any steps under this Schedule to forfeit
cryptoassets that are terrorist cryptoassets.

########## Restriction on proceedings and remedies

2.10Z7BE

2.10Z7BE.1

If a court in which proceedings are pending in respect of a crypto wallet
administered by a UK-connected cryptoasset service provider is satisfied that
a crypto wallet freezing order has been applied for or made in respect of the
crypto wallet, it may either stay the proceedings or allow them to continue on
any terms it thinks fit.

2.10Z7BE.2

Before exercising the power conferred by sub-paragraph  (1) , the court must
(as well as giving the parties to any of the proceedings concerned an
opportunity to be heard) give such an opportunity to any person who may be
affected by the court’s decision.

2.10Z7BE.3

In relation to Scotland, the reference in sub-paragraph  (1)  to staying the
proceedings is to be read as a reference to sisting the proceedings.

######### Forfeiture of terrorist cryptoassets

########## Interpretation

2.10Z7C

2.10Z7C.1

In this Part—

“ cryptoasset service provider ” has the same meaning as in Part 4BB (see
paragraph  10Z7B (1) ); “ crypto wallet freezing order ” has the same meaning
as in Part 4BB (see paragraph  10Z7B (6) ); “ senior officer ” means— a senior
police officer; an officer of Revenue and Customs of a rank designated by the
Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs as equivalent to that of a
senior police officer; an immigration officer of a rank designated by the
Secretary of State as equivalent to that of a senior police officer; “ senior
police officer ” means a police officer of at least the rank of
superintendent.

2.10Z7C.2

Paragraph  10Z7B (6)(b)  (administration of crypto wallets) applies in
relation to this Part as it applies in relation to Part  4BB .

########## Forfeiture

2.10Z7CA

2.10Z7CA.1

This paragraph applies—

2.10Z7CA.1.a

while any cryptoassets are detained under Part 4BA, or

2.10Z7CA.1.b

while a crypto wallet freezing order made under paragraph  10Z7BB  has effect.

2.10Z7CA.2

An application for the forfeiture of some or all of the cryptoassets that are
detained or held in the crypto wallet that is subject to the crypto wallet
freezing order may be made—

2.10Z7CA.2.a

to a magistrates’ court by the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and
Customs or an authorised officer, or

2.10Z7CA.2.b

to the sheriff by the Scottish Ministers.

2.10Z7CA.3

The court or sheriff may order the forfeiture of some or all of the
cryptoassets if satisfied that the cryptoassets are terrorist cryptoassets.

2.10Z7CA.4

An order under sub-paragraph  (3)  made by a magistrates’ court may provide
for payment under paragraph  10Z7CJ  of reasonable legal expenses that a
person has reasonably incurred, or may reasonably incur, in respect of—

2.10Z7CA.4.a

the proceedings in which the order is made, or

2.10Z7CA.4.b

any related proceedings under this Part.

2.10Z7CA.5

A sum in respect of a relevant item of expenditure is not payable under
paragraph  10Z7CJ  in pursuance of provision under sub-paragraph  (4)  unless—

2.10Z7CA.5.a

the person who applied for the order under sub-paragraph  (3)  agrees to its
payment, or

2.10Z7CA.5.b

the court has assessed the amount allowed in respect of that item and the sum
is paid in respect of the assessed amount.

2.10Z7CA.6

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (5) —

2.10Z7CA.6.a

a “relevant item of expenditure” is an item of expenditure to which
regulations under section 286B of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 would apply
if the order under sub-paragraph  (3)  had instead been a recovery order made
under section 266 of that Act;

2.10Z7CA.6.b

an amount is “allowed” in respect of a relevant item of expenditure if it
would have been allowed by those regulations;

2.10Z7CA.6.c

if the person who applied for the order under sub-paragraph  (3)  was an
authorised officer, that person may not agree to the payment of a sum unless
the person is a senior officer or is authorised to do so by a senior officer.

2.10Z7CA.7

Sub-paragraph  (3)  ceases to apply on the transfer of an application made
under this paragraph in accordance with paragraph  10Z7CE .

########## Forfeiture: supplementary

2.10Z7CB

2.10Z7CB.1

Sub-paragraph  (2)  applies where an application is made under paragraph
10Z7CA  for the forfeiture of any cryptoassets detained under Part 4BA.

2.10Z7CB.2

The cryptoassets are to continue to be detained under Part 4BA (and may not be
released under any power conferred by this Schedule) until any proceedings in
pursuance of the application (including any proceedings on appeal) are
concluded.

This is subject to Part  4BD  (conversion to money).

2.10Z7CB.3

Where an application is made under paragraph  10Z7CA  in relation to
cryptoassets held in a crypto wallet that is subject to a crypto wallet
freezing order—

2.10Z7CB.3.a

sub-paragraphs  (4)  and  (5)  apply, and

2.10Z7CB.3.b

the crypto wallet freezing order is to continue to have effect until the time
referred to in sub-paragraph  (4) (b)  or  (5) .

2.10Z7CB.4

Where the cryptoassets are ordered to be forfeited under paragraph  10Z7CA (3)
or  10Z7CE (3) —

2.10Z7CB.4.a

the cryptoasset service provider that administers the crypto wallet must
transfer the cryptoassets into a crypto wallet nominated by an authorised
officer, and

2.10Z7CB.4.b

immediately after the transfer has been made, the freezing order ceases to
have effect.

2.10Z7CB.5

Where the application is determined or otherwise disposed of other than by the
making of an order under paragraph  10Z7CA (3)  or  10Z7CE (3) , the crypto
wallet freezing order ceases to have effect immediately after that
determination or other disposal.

2.10Z7CB.6

Sub-paragraphs  (4) (b)  and  (5)  are subject to paragraph  10Z7CF  and Part
4BD .

2.10Z7CB.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument amend
this paragraph to make provision about the forfeiture of cryptoassets held in
a crypto wallet that is subject to a crypto wallet freezing order.

2.10Z7CB.8

Regulations under sub-paragraph  (7)  may in particular make provision about—

2.10Z7CB.8.a

the process for the forfeiture of cryptoassets;

2.10Z7CB.8.b

the realisation of forfeited cryptoassets;

2.10Z7CB.8.c

the application of the proceeds of such realisation.

2.10Z7CB.9

Regulations under sub-paragraph  (7)  may—

2.10Z7CB.9.a

make different provision for different purposes;

2.10Z7CB.9.b

make consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional, transitory or
saving provision, including provision which makes consequential amendments to
this Part.

2.10Z7CB.10

A statutory instrument containing regulations under sub-paragraph  (7)  may
not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved
by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

########## Associated and joint property

2.10Z7CC

2.10Z7CC.1

Paragraphs  10Z7CD  and  10Z7CE  apply if—

2.10Z7CC.1.a

an application is made under paragraph  10Z7CA  in respect of cryptoassets,

2.10Z7CC.1.b

the court or sheriff is satisfied that some or all of the cryptoassets are
terrorist cryptoassets, and

2.10Z7CC.1.c

there exists property that is associated with the cryptoassets in relation to
which the court or sheriff is satisfied as mentioned in paragraph  (b) .

2.10Z7CC.2

Paragraphs  10Z7CD  and  10Z7CE  also apply in England and Wales and Northern
Ireland if—

2.10Z7CC.2.a

an application is made under paragraph  10Z7CA  in respect of cryptoassets,

2.10Z7CC.2.b

the court is satisfied that some or all of the cryptoassets are earmarked as
terrorist property, and

2.10Z7CC.2.c

the cryptoassets in relation to which the court is satisfied as mentioned in
paragraph  (b)  belong to joint tenants and one of the tenants is an excepted
joint owner.

2.10Z7CC.3

In this paragraph and paragraphs  10Z7CD  and  10Z7CE , “ associated property
” means property of any of the following descriptions that is not itself the
forfeitable property—

2.10Z7CC.3.a

any interest in the forfeitable property;

2.10Z7CC.3.b

any other interest in the property in which the forfeitable property subsists;

2.10Z7CC.3.c

if the forfeitable property is part of a larger property, but not a separate
part, the remainder of that property.

References to property being associated with forfeitable property are to be
read accordingly.

2.10Z7CC.4

In this paragraph and paragraphs  10Z7CD  and  10Z7CE , the “ forfeitable
property ” means the cryptoassets in relation to which the court or sheriff is
satisfied as mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1)(b)  or  (2)(b)  (as the case may
be).

2.10Z7CC.5

For the purposes of this paragraph and paragraphs  10Z7CD  and  10Z7CE —

2.10Z7CC.5.a

an excepted joint owner is a joint tenant who obtained the property in
circumstances in which it would not (as against them) be earmarked, and

2.10Z7CC.5.b

references to the excepted joint owner’s share of property are to so much of
the property as would have been theirs if the joint tenancy had been severed.

########## Agreements about associated and joint property

2.10Z7CD

2.10Z7CD.1

Where—

2.10Z7CD.1.a

this paragraph applies, and

2.10Z7CD.1.b

the person who applied for the order under paragraph  10Z7CA  (on the one
hand) and the person who holds the associated property or who is the excepted
joint owner (on the other hand) agree,

the magistrates’ court or sheriff may, instead of making an order under
paragraph  10Z7CA (3) , make an order requiring the person who holds the
associated property or who is the excepted joint owner to make a payment to a
person identified in the order.

2.10Z7CD.2

The amount of the payment is (subject to sub-paragraph  (3) ) to be the amount
which the persons referred to in sub-paragraph  (1)(b)  agree represents—

2.10Z7CD.2.a

in a case where this paragraph applies by virtue of paragraph  10Z7CC (1) ,
the value of the forfeitable property;

2.10Z7CD.2.b

in a case where this paragraph applies by virtue of paragraph  10Z7CC (2) ,
the value of the forfeitable property less the value of the excepted joint
owner’s share.

2.10Z7CD.3

The amount of the payment may be reduced if the person who applied for the
order under paragraph  10Z7CA  agrees that the other party to the agreement
has suffered loss as a result of—

2.10Z7CD.3.a

the seizure of the forfeitable property under paragraph  10Z7AD  and its
subsequent detention, or

2.10Z7CD.3.b

the making of a crypto wallet freezing order under paragraph  10Z7BB .

2.10Z7CD.4

The reduction that is permissible by virtue of sub-paragraph  (3)  is such
amount as the parties to the agreement agree is reasonable, having regard to
the loss suffered and any other relevant circumstances.

2.10Z7CD.5

An order under sub-paragraph  (1)  may, so far as required for giving effect
to the agreement, include provision for vesting, creating or extinguishing any
interest in property.

2.10Z7CD.6

An order under sub-paragraph  (1)  made by a magistrates’ court may provide
for payment under sub-paragraph  (11)  of reasonable legal expenses that a
person has reasonably incurred, or may reasonably incur, in respect of—

2.10Z7CD.6.a

the proceedings in which the order is made, or

2.10Z7CD.6.b

any related proceedings under this Part.

2.10Z7CD.7

A sum in respect of a relevant item of expenditure is not payable under sub-
paragraph  (11)  in pursuance of provision under sub-paragraph  (6)  unless—

2.10Z7CD.7.a

the person who applied for the order under paragraph  10Z7CA  agrees to its
payment, or

2.10Z7CD.7.b

the court has assessed the amount allowed in respect of that item and the sum
is paid in respect of the assessed amount.

2.10Z7CD.8

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (7) —

2.10Z7CD.8.a

a “relevant item of expenditure” is an item of expenditure to which
regulations under section 286B of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 would apply
if the order under sub-paragraph  (1)  had instead been a recovery order made
under section 266 of that Act;

2.10Z7CD.8.b

an amount is “allowed” in respect of a relevant item of expenditure if it
would have been allowed by those regulations.

2.10Z7CD.9

If there is more than one item of associated property or more than one
excepted joint owner, the total amount to be paid under sub-paragraph  (1) ,
and the part of that amount which is to be provided by each person who holds
any such associated property or who is an excepted joint owner, is to be
agreed between both (or all) of them and the person who applied for the order
under paragraph  10Z7CA .

2.10Z7CD.10

If the person who applied for the order under paragraph  10Z7CA  was an
authorised officer, that person may enter into an agreement for the purposes
of any provision of this paragraph only if the person is a senior officer or
is authorised to do so by a senior officer.

2.10Z7CD.11

An amount received under an order under sub-paragraph  (1)  must be applied as
follows—

2.10Z7CD.11.a

first, it must be applied in making any payment of legal expenses which, after
giving effect to sub-paragraph  (7) , are payable under this sub-paragraph in
pursuance of provision under sub-paragraph  (6) ;

2.10Z7CD.11.b

second, it must be applied in payment or reimbursement of any reasonable costs
incurred in storing or insuring the forfeitable property and any associated
property whilst detained under this Schedule;

2.10Z7CD.11.c

third, it must be paid—

2.10Z7CD.11.c.i

if the order was made by a magistrates’ court, into the Consolidated Fund;

2.10Z7CD.11.c.ii

if the order was made by the sheriff, into the Scottish Consolidated Fund.

########## Associated and joint property: default of agreement

2.10Z7CE

2.10Z7CE.1

Where this paragraph applies and there is no agreement under paragraph  10Z7CD
, the magistrates’ court or sheriff may transfer the application made under
paragraph  10Z7CA  to the appropriate court.

2.10Z7CE.2

The “appropriate court” is—

2.10Z7CE.2.a

the High Court, where the application under paragraph  10Z7CA  was made to a
magistrates’ court;

2.10Z7CE.2.b

the Court of Session, where the application under paragraph  10Z7CA  was made
to the sheriff.

2.10Z7CE.3

Where (under sub-paragraph  (1) ) an application made under paragraph  10Z7CA
is transferred to the appropriate court, the appropriate court may order the
forfeiture of the property to which the application relates, or any part of
that property, if satisfied that what is to be forfeited—

2.10Z7CE.3.a

is within subsection (1)(a) or (b) of section 1, or

2.10Z7CE.3.b

is property earmarked as terrorist property.

2.10Z7CE.4

An order under sub-paragraph  (3)  made by the High Court may include
provision of the type that may be included in an order under paragraph  10Z7CA
(3)  made by a magistrates’ court by virtue of paragraph  10Z7CA (4) .

2.10Z7CE.5

If provision is included in an order of the High Court by virtue of sub-
paragraph  (4)  of this paragraph, paragraph  10Z7CA (5)  and  (6)  apply with
the necessary modifications.

2.10Z7CE.6

The appropriate court may, as well as making an order under sub-paragraph  (3)
, make an order—

2.10Z7CE.6.a

providing for the forfeiture of the associated property or (as the case may
be) for the excepted joint owner‘s interest to be extinguished, or

2.10Z7CE.6.b

providing for the excepted joint owner‘s interest to be severed.

2.10Z7CE.7

Where (under sub-paragraph  (1) ) the magistrates’ court or sheriff decides
not to transfer an application made under paragraph  10Z7CA  to the
appropriate court, the magistrates’ court or sheriff may, as well as making an
order under paragraph  10Z7CA (3) , make an order—

2.10Z7CE.7.a

providing for the forfeiture of the associated property or (as the case may
be) for the excepted joint owner‘s interest to be extinguished, or

2.10Z7CE.7.b

providing for the excepted joint owner‘s interest to be severed.

2.10Z7CE.8

An order under sub-paragraph  (6)  or  (7)  may be made only if the
appropriate court, the magistrates’ court or the sheriff (as the case may be)
thinks it just and equitable to do so.

2.10Z7CE.9

An order under sub-paragraph  (6)  or  (7)  must provide for the payment of an
amount to the person who holds the associated property or who is an excepted
joint owner.

2.10Z7CE.10

In making an order under sub-paragraph  (6)  or  (7) , and including provision
in it by virtue of sub-paragraph  (9) , the appropriate court, the
magistrates’ court or the sheriff (as the case may be) must have regard to—

2.10Z7CE.10.a

the rights of any person who holds the associated property or who is an
excepted joint owner and the value to that person of that property or (as the
case may be) of that person’s share (including any value that cannot be
assessed in terms of money), and

2.10Z7CE.10.b

the interest of the person who applied for the order under paragraph  10Z7CA
in realising the value of the forfeitable property.

2.10Z7CE.11

If the appropriate court, the magistrates’ court or the sheriff (as the case
may be) is satisfied that—

2.10Z7CE.11.a

the person who holds the associated property or who is an excepted joint owner
has suffered loss as a result of—

2.10Z7CE.11.a.i

the seizure of the forfeitable property under paragraph  10Z7AD  and its
subsequent detention, or

2.10Z7CE.11.a.ii

the making of the crypto wallet freezing order under paragraph  10Z7BB , and

2.10Z7CE.11.b

the circumstances are exceptional,

an order under sub-paragraph  (6)  or  (7)  may require the payment of
compensation to that person.

2.10Z7CE.12

The amount of compensation to be paid by virtue of sub-paragraph  (11)  is the
amount the appropriate court, the magistrates’ court or the sheriff (as the
case may be) thinks reasonable, having regard to the loss suffered and any
other relevant circumstances.

2.10Z7CE.13

Compensation to be paid by virtue of sub-paragraph  (11)  is to be paid in the
same way that compensation is to be paid under paragraph  10Z7CM .

########## Continuation of crypto wallet freezing order pending appeal

2.10Z7CF

2.10Z7CF.1

This paragraph applies where, on an application under paragraph  10Z7CA  in
relation to a crypto wallet to which a crypto wallet freezing order applies—

2.10Z7CF.1.a

the magistrates’ court or sheriff decides—

2.10Z7CF.1.a.i

to make an order under paragraph  10Z7CA (3)  in relation to some but not all
of the cryptoassets to which the application related, or

2.10Z7CF.1.a.ii

not to make an order under paragraph  10Z7CA (3) , or

2.10Z7CF.1.b

if the application is transferred in accordance with paragraph  10Z7CE (1) ,
the High Court or Court of Session decides—

2.10Z7CF.1.b.i

to make an order under paragraph  10Z7CE (3)  in relation to some but not all
of the cryptoassets to which the application related, or

2.10Z7CF.1.b.ii

not to make an order under paragraph  10Z7CE (3) .

2.10Z7CF.2

The person who made the application under paragraph  10Z7CA  may apply without
notice to the court or sheriff that made the decision referred to in sub-
paragraph  (1)  for an order that the crypto wallet freezing order is to
continue to have effect.

2.10Z7CF.3

Where the court or sheriff makes an order under sub-paragraph  (2)  the crypto
wallet freezing order is to continue to have effect until—

2.10Z7CF.3.a

the end of the period of 48 hours starting with the making of the order under
sub-paragraph  (2) , or

2.10Z7CF.3.b

if within that period of 48 hours an appeal is brought (whether under
paragraph  10Z7CG  or otherwise) against the decision referred to in sub-
paragraph  (1) , the time when the appeal is determined or otherwise disposed
of.

2.10Z7CF.4

Sub-paragraph  (3)  of paragraph  10Z7AF  applies for the purposes of sub-
paragraph  (3)  as it applies for the purposes of that paragraph.

########## Paragraphs 

2.10Z7CG

2.10Z7CG.1

Any party to proceedings for an order for the forfeiture of cryptoassets under
paragraph  10Z7CA  may appeal against—

2.10Z7CG.1.a

the making of an order under paragraph  10Z7CA ;

2.10Z7CG.1.b

the making of an order under paragraph  10Z7CE (7) ;

2.10Z7CG.1.c

a decision not to make an order under paragraph  10Z7CA  unless the reason
that no order was made is that an order was instead made under paragraph
10Z7CD ;

2.10Z7CG.1.d

a decision not to make an order under paragraph  10Z7CE (7) .

Paragraphs  (c)  and  (d)  do not apply if the application for the order under
paragraph  10Z7CA  was transferred in accordance with paragraph  10Z7CE (1) .

2.10Z7CG.2

Where an order under paragraph  10Z7CD  is made by a magistrates’ court, any
party to the proceedings for the order (including any party to the proceedings
under paragraph  10Z7CA  that preceded the making of the order) may appeal
against a decision to include, or not to include, provision in the order under
paragraph  10Z7CD (6) .

2.10Z7CG.3

An appeal under this paragraph lies—

2.10Z7CG.3.a

in relation to England and Wales, to the Crown Court;

2.10Z7CG.3.b

in relation to Scotland, to the Sheriff Appeal Court;

2.10Z7CG.3.c

in relation to Northern Ireland, to a county court.

2.10Z7CG.4

An appeal under this paragraph must be made before the end of the period of 30
days starting with the day on which the court or sheriff makes the order or
decision.

2.10Z7CG.5

Sub-paragraph  (4)  is subject to paragraph  10Z7CH .

2.10Z7CG.6

The court hearing the appeal may make any order it thinks appropriate.

2.10Z7CG.7

If the court upholds an appeal against an order forfeiting any cryptoasset or
other item of property, it may, subject to sub-paragraph  (8) , order the
release of the whole or any part of the property.

2.10Z7CG.8

If (in the United Kingdom or elsewhere) proceedings are started against any
person for an offence with which the property is connected, the property is
not to be released under this paragraph (and so is to continue to be detained)
until the proceedings are concluded.

########## Extended time for appealing in certain cases where deproscription order made

2.10Z7CH

2.10Z7CH.1

This paragraph applies where—

2.10Z7CH.1.a

a successful application for an order under paragraph  10Z7CA  relies (wholly
or partly) on the fact that an organisation is proscribed,

2.10Z7CH.1.b

an application under section 4 of the Terrorism Act 2000 for a deproscription
order in respect of the organisation is refused by the Secretary of State,

2.10Z7CH.1.c

the property forfeited by the order under paragraph  10Z7CA  was seized under
this Schedule on or after the date of the refusal of that application,

2.10Z7CH.1.d

an appeal against that refusal is allowed under section 5 of the Terrorism Act
2000,

2.10Z7CH.1.e

a deproscription order is made accordingly, and

2.10Z7CH.1.f

if the order is made in reliance on section 123(5) of the Terrorism Act 2000,
a resolution is passed by each House of Parliament under section 123(5)(b) of
that Act.

2.10Z7CH.2

Where this paragraph applies, an appeal under paragraph  10Z7CG  against the
making of an order under paragraph  10Z7CA , and against the making (in
addition) of any order under paragraph  10Z7CE (7) , may be brought at any
time before the end of the period of 30 days beginning with the date on which
the deproscription order comes into force.

2.10Z7CH.3

In this paragraph a “ deproscription order ” means an order under section
3(3)(b) or (8) of the Terrorism Act 2000.

########## Realisation or destruction of forfeited cryptoassets etc

2.10Z7CI

2.10Z7CI.1

This paragraph applies where any cryptoasset or other item of property is
forfeited under this Part.

2.10Z7CI.2

An authorised officer must—

2.10Z7CI.2.a

realise the property, or

2.10Z7CI.2.b

make arrangements for its realisation.

This is subject to sub-paragraphs  (3)  to  (5) .

2.10Z7CI.3

The property is not to be realised—

2.10Z7CI.3.a

before the end of the period within which an appeal may be made (whether under
paragraph  10Z7CG  or otherwise), or

2.10Z7CI.3.b

if an appeal is made within that period, before the appeal is determined or
otherwise disposed of.

2.10Z7CI.4

The realisation of property under sub-paragraph  (2)  must be carried out, so
far as practicable, in the manner best calculated to maximise the amount
obtained for the property.

2.10Z7CI.5

Where an authorised officer is satisfied that—

2.10Z7CI.5.a

it is not reasonably practicable to realise any cryptoasset, or

2.10Z7CI.5.b

there are reasonable grounds to believe that the realisation of any
cryptoasset would be contrary to the public interest,

the authorised officer may destroy the cryptoasset.

2.10Z7CI.6

But—

2.10Z7CI.6.a

the authorised officer may destroy the cryptoasset only if the officer is a
senior officer or is authorised to do so by a senior officer, and

2.10Z7CI.6.b

the cryptoasset is not to be destroyed—

2.10Z7CI.6.b.i

before the end of the period within which an appeal may be made (whether under
paragraph  10Z7CG  or otherwise), or

2.10Z7CI.6.b.ii

if an appeal is made within that period, before the appeal is determined or
otherwise disposed of.

2.10Z7CI.7

The question of whether the realisation of the cryptoasset would be contrary
to the public interest is to be determined with particular reference to how
likely it is that the entry of the cryptoasset into general circulation would
facilitate criminal conduct by any person.

########## Proceeds of realisation

2.10Z7CJ

2.10Z7CJ.1

This paragraph applies where any cryptoasset or other item of property is
realised under paragraph  10Z7CI .

2.10Z7CJ.2

The proceeds of the realisation must be applied as follows—

2.10Z7CJ.2.a

first, they must be applied in making any payment required to be made by
virtue of paragraph  10Z7CE (9) ;

2.10Z7CJ.2.b

second, they must be applied in making any payment of legal expenses which,
after giving effect to paragraph  10Z7CA (5)  (including as applied by
paragraph  10Z7CE (5) ), are payable under this sub-paragraph in pursuance of
provision under paragraph  10Z7CA (4)  or, as the case may be,  10Z7CE (4) ;

2.10Z7CJ.2.c

third, they must be applied in payment or reimbursement of any reasonable
costs incurred in storing or insuring the property whilst detained under this
Schedule and in realising the property;

2.10Z7CJ.2.d

fourth, they must be paid—

2.10Z7CJ.2.d.i

if the property was forfeited by a magistrates’ court or the High Court, into
the Consolidated Fund;

2.10Z7CJ.2.d.ii

if the property was forfeited by the sheriff or the Court of Session, into the
Scottish Consolidated Fund.

2.10Z7CJ.3

If what is realised under paragraph  10Z7CI  represents part only of an item
of property, the reference in sub-paragraph  (2)(c)  to costs incurred in
storing or insuring the property is to be read as a reference to costs
incurred in storing or insuring the whole of the property.

########## Victims etc: detained cryptoassets

2.10Z7CK

2.10Z7CK.1

A person who claims that any cryptoassets detained under this Schedule belong
to the person may apply for some or all of the cryptoassets to be released.

2.10Z7CK.2

An application under sub-paragraph  (1)  is to be made—

2.10Z7CK.2.a

in England and Wales or Northern Ireland, to a magistrates’ court;

2.10Z7CK.2.b

in Scotland, to the sheriff.

2.10Z7CK.3

The application may be made in the course of proceedings under paragraph
10Z7AG  or  10Z7CA  or at any other time.

2.10Z7CK.4

The court or sheriff may, subject to sub-paragraph  (8) , order the
cryptoassets to which the application relates to be released to the applicant
if it appears to the court or sheriff that—

2.10Z7CK.4.a

the applicant was deprived of the cryptoassets to which the application
relates, or of property which they represent, by criminal conduct,

2.10Z7CK.4.b

the cryptoassets the applicant was deprived of were not, immediately before
the applicant was deprived of them, property obtained by or in return for
criminal conduct and nor did they then represent such property, and

2.10Z7CK.4.c

the cryptoassets belong to the applicant.

2.10Z7CK.5

If sub-paragraph  (6)  applies, the court or sheriff may, subject to sub-
paragraph  (8) , order the cryptoassets to which the application relates to be
released to the applicant or to the person from whom they were seized.

2.10Z7CK.6

This sub-paragraph applies where—

2.10Z7CK.6.a

the applicant is not the person from whom the cryptoassets to which the
application relates were seized,

2.10Z7CK.6.b

it appears to the court or sheriff that those cryptoassets belong to the
applicant,

2.10Z7CK.6.c

the court or sheriff is satisfied that the release condition is met in
relation to those cryptoassets, and

2.10Z7CK.6.d

no objection to the making of an order under sub-paragraph  (5)  has been made
by the person from whom those cryptoassets were seized.

2.10Z7CK.7

The release condition is met—

2.10Z7CK.7.a

if the conditions in Part  4BA  for the detention of the cryptoassets are no
longer met, or

2.10Z7CK.7.b

in relation to cryptoassets which are subject to an application for forfeiture
under paragraph  10Z7CA , if the court or sheriff decides not to make an order
under that paragraph in relation to the cryptoassets.

2.10Z7CK.8

If (in the United Kingdom or elsewhere) proceedings are started against any
person for an offence with which the cryptoassets are connected, the
cryptoassets are not to be released under this paragraph (and so are to
continue to be detained) until the proceedings are concluded.

########## Victims etc: crypto wallet freezing orders

2.10Z7CL

2.10Z7CL.1

A person who claims that any cryptoassets held in a crypto wallet in respect
of which a crypto wallet freezing order has effect belong to the person may
apply for some or all of the cryptoassets to be released.

2.10Z7CL.2

An application under sub-paragraph  (1)  is to be made—

2.10Z7CL.2.a

in England and Wales or Northern Ireland, to a magistrates’ court;

2.10Z7CL.2.b

in Scotland, to the sheriff.

2.10Z7CL.3

The application may be made in the course of proceedings under paragraph
10Z7BB  or  10Z7CA  or at any other time.

2.10Z7CL.4

The court or sheriff may, subject to sub-paragraph  (8) , order the
cryptoassets to which the application relates to be released to the applicant
if it appears to the court or sheriff that—

2.10Z7CL.4.a

the applicant was deprived of the cryptoassets to which the application
relates, or of property which they represent, by criminal conduct,

2.10Z7CL.4.b

the cryptoassets the applicant was deprived of were not, immediately before
the applicant was deprived of them, property obtained by or in return for
criminal conduct and nor did they then represent such property, and

2.10Z7CL.4.c

the cryptoassets belong to the applicant.

2.10Z7CL.5

If sub-paragraph  (6)  applies, the court or sheriff may, subject to sub-
paragraph  (8) , order the cryptoassets to which the application relates to be
released to the applicant.

2.10Z7CL.6

This sub-paragraph applies where—

2.10Z7CL.6.a

the applicant is not the person from whom the cryptoassets to which the
application relates were seized,

2.10Z7CL.6.b

it appears to the court or sheriff that those cryptoassets belong to the
applicant,

2.10Z7CL.6.c

the court or sheriff is satisfied that the release condition is met in
relation to those cryptoassets, and

2.10Z7CL.6.d

no objection to the making of an order under sub-paragraph  (5)  has been made
by the person from whom those cryptoassets were seized.

2.10Z7CL.7

The release condition is met—

2.10Z7CL.7.a

if the conditions for the making of the crypto wallet freezing order are no
longer met in relation to the cryptoassets to which the application relates,
or

2.10Z7CL.7.b

in relation to cryptoassets held in a crypto wallet subject to a crypto wallet
freezing order which are subject to an application for forfeiture under
paragraph  10Z7CA , if the court or sheriff decides not to make an order under
that paragraph in relation to the cryptoassets.

2.10Z7CL.8

Cryptoassets are not to be released under this paragraph—

2.10Z7CL.8.a

if an application for their forfeiture under paragraph  10Z7CA  is made, until
any proceedings in pursuance of the application (including any proceedings on
appeal) are concluded;

2.10Z7CL.8.b

if (in the United Kingdom or elsewhere) proceedings are started against any
person for an offence with which the cryptoassets are connected, until the
proceedings are concluded.

2.10Z7CL.9

In relation to cryptoassets held in a crypto wallet that is subject to a
crypto wallet freezing order, references in this paragraph to a person from
whom cryptoassets were seized include a reference to a person by or for whom
the crypto wallet was administered immediately before the crypto wallet
freezing order was made.

########## Compensation

2.10Z7CM

2.10Z7CM.1

This paragraph applies if no order is made under paragraph  10Z7CA ,  10Z7CD
or  10Z7CE  in respect of cryptoassets detained under this Schedule or held in
a crypto wallet that is subject to a crypto wallet freezing order under
paragraph  10Z7BB .

2.10Z7CM.2

Where this paragraph applies, the following may make an application to the
relevant court for compensation—

2.10Z7CM.2.a

a person to whom the cryptoassets belong or from whom they were seized;

2.10Z7CM.2.b

a person by or for whom a crypto wallet to which the crypto wallet freezing
order applies is administered.

2.10Z7CM.3

If the relevant court is satisfied that the applicant has suffered loss as a
result of the detention of the cryptoassets or the making of the crypto wallet
freezing order and that the circumstances are exceptional, the relevant court
may order compensation to be paid to the applicant.

2.10Z7CM.4

The amount of compensation to be paid is the amount the relevant court thinks
reasonable, having regard to the loss suffered and any other relevant
circumstances.

2.10Z7CM.5

If the cryptoassets were seized, or the crypto wallet freezing order was
applied for, by an officer of Revenue and Customs, the compensation is to be
paid by the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs.

2.10Z7CM.6

If the cryptoassets were seized, or the crypto wallet freezing order was
applied for, by a constable, the compensation is to be paid as follows—

2.10Z7CM.6.a

in the case of a constable of a police force in England and Wales, it is to be
paid out of the police fund from which the expenses of the police force are
met;

2.10Z7CM.6.b

in the case of a constable of the Police Service of Scotland, it is to be paid
by the Scottish Police Authority;

2.10Z7CM.6.c

in the case of a police officer within the meaning of the Police (Northern
Ireland) Act 2000, it is to be paid out of money provided by the Chief
Constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland.

2.10Z7CM.7

If the cryptoassets were seized, or the crypto wallet freezing order was
applied for, by a counter-terrorism financial investigator, the compensation
is to be paid as follows—

2.10Z7CM.7.a

in the case of a counter-terrorism financial investigator who was—

2.10Z7CM.7.a.i

a member of the civilian staff of a police force (including the metropolitan
police force), within the meaning of Part 1 of the Police Reform and Social
Responsibility Act 2011, or

2.10Z7CM.7.a.ii

a member of staff of the City of London police force,

it is to be paid out of the police fund from which the expenses of the police
force are met;

2.10Z7CM.7.b

in the case of a counter-terrorism financial investigator who was a member of
staff of the Police Service of Northern Ireland, it is to be paid out of money
provided by the Chief Constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland.

2.10Z7CM.8

If the cryptoassets were seized, or the crypto wallet freezing order was
applied for, by an immigration officer, the compensation is to be paid by the
Secretary of State.

2.10Z7CM.9

If an order under paragraph  10Z7BB ,  10Z7CA ,  10Z7CD  or  10Z7CE  is made
in respect of some of the cryptoassets detained or held, this paragraph has
effect in relation to the remainder.

2.10Z7CM.10

This paragraph does not apply if the relevant court makes an order under
paragraph  10Z7CK  or  10Z7CL .

2.10Z7CM.11

In this paragraph “ relevant court ” means—

2.10Z7CM.11.a

in England and Wales and Northern Ireland, a magistrates’ court;

2.10Z7CM.11.b

in Scotland, the sheriff.

######### Conversion of cryptoassets

########## Interpretation

2.10Z7D

2.10Z7D.1

In this Part—

“ converted cryptoassets ” is to be read in accordance with paragraphs  10Z7DD
and 10Z7DE; “ crypto wallet freezing order ” has the same meaning as in Part
4BB  (see paragraph  10Z7B (6) ); “ relevant court ” means— in England and
Wales and Northern Ireland, a magistrates’ court; in Scotland, the sheriff; “
relevant financial institution ” has the same meaning as in Part 4B (see
paragraph 10Q); “ UK-connected cryptoasset service provider ” has the same
meaning as in Part  4BB  (see paragraph  10Z7B (7) ).

2.10Z7D.2

Paragraph  10Z7B (6)(b)  (administration of crypto wallets) applies in
relation to this Part as it applies in relation to Part  4BB .

2.10Z7D.3

In this Part references to the conversion of cryptoassets into money are
references to the conversion of cryptoassets into—

2.10Z7D.3.a

cash, or

2.10Z7D.3.b

money held in an account maintained with a relevant financial institution.

2.10Z7D.4

For the purposes of Parts 2 to 4, converted cryptoassets detained under this
Part are not to be treated as cash detained under this Schedule.

########## Detained cryptoassets: conversion

2.10Z7DA

2.10Z7DA.1

Sub-paragraph  (2)  applies while any cryptoassets are detained in pursuance
of an order under paragraph  10Z7AE  or  10Z7AG  (including where cryptoassets
are subject to forfeiture proceedings).

2.10Z7DA.2

A person within sub-paragraph  (3)  may apply to the relevant court for an
order requiring all of the cryptoassets detained pursuant to the order to be
converted into money.

2.10Z7DA.3

The following persons are within this sub-paragraph—

2.10Z7DA.3.a

an authorised officer;

2.10Z7DA.3.b

a person from whom the cryptoassets were seized.

2.10Z7DA.4

In deciding whether to make an order under this paragraph, the court must have
regard to whether the cryptoassets (as a whole) are likely to suffer a
significant loss in value during the period before they are released or
forfeited (including the period during which an appeal against an order for
forfeiture may be made).

2.10Z7DA.5

Before making an order under this paragraph the court must give an opportunity
to be heard to—

2.10Z7DA.5.a

the parties to the proceedings, and

2.10Z7DA.5.b

any other person who may be affected by its decision.

2.10Z7DA.6

As soon as practicable after an order is made under this paragraph, an
authorised officer must convert the cryptoassets, or arrange for the
cryptoassets to be converted, into money.

2.10Z7DA.7

The conversion of cryptoassets under sub-paragraph  (6)  must be carried out,
so far as practicable, in the manner best calculated to maximise the amount of
money obtained for the cryptoassets.

2.10Z7DA.8

At the first opportunity after the cryptoassets are converted, the authorised
officer must arrange for the amount of money obtained for the cryptoassets to
be paid into an interest-bearing account and held there.

2.10Z7DA.9

Interest accruing on the amount is to be added to it on its forfeiture or
release.

2.10Z7DA.10

Where cryptoassets are converted into money in accordance with an order made
under this paragraph—

2.10Z7DA.10.a

the cryptoassets are no longer to be treated as being detained in pursuance of
an order under paragraph  10Z7AE  or  10Z7AG , and

2.10Z7DA.10.b

any application made under paragraph  10Z7CA (2)  in relation to the
cryptoassets which has not yet been determined or otherwise disposed of
(including under paragraph  10Z7CD  or  10Z7CE ) is to be treated as if it
were an application made under paragraph  10Z7DG (2)  in relation to the
converted cryptoassets.

2.10Z7DA.11

An order made under this paragraph must provide for notice to be given to
persons affected by the order.

2.10Z7DA.12

No appeal may be made against an order made under this paragraph.

########## Frozen crypto wallet: conversion

2.10Z7DB

2.10Z7DB.1

This paragraph applies while a crypto wallet freezing order under paragraph
10Z7BB  has effect (including where cryptoassets held in a crypto wallet that
is subject to a crypto wallet freezing order are subject to forfeiture
proceedings).

2.10Z7DB.2

A person within sub-paragraph  (3)  may apply to the relevant court for an
order requiring all of the cryptoassets held in the crypto wallet to be
converted into money.

2.10Z7DB.3

The following persons are within this sub-paragraph—

2.10Z7DB.3.a

an authorised officer;

2.10Z7DB.3.b

a person by or for whom the crypto wallet is administered.

2.10Z7DB.4

In deciding whether to make an order under this paragraph, the court must have
regard to whether the cryptoassets (as a whole) are likely to suffer a
significant loss in value during the period before—

2.10Z7DB.4.a

the crypto wallet freezing order ceases to have effect, or

2.10Z7DB.4.b

the cryptoassets are forfeited (including the period during which an appeal
against an order for forfeiture may be made).

2.10Z7DB.5

Before making an order under this paragraph the court must give an opportunity
to be heard to—

2.10Z7DB.5.a

the parties to the proceedings, and

2.10Z7DB.5.b

any other person who may be affected by its decision.

2.10Z7DB.6

As soon as practicable after an order is made under this paragraph, the UK-
connected cryptoasset service provider that administers the crypto wallet must
convert the cryptoassets, or arrange for the cryptoassets to be converted,
into money.

2.10Z7DB.7

The conversion of cryptoassets under sub-paragraph  (6)  must be carried out,
so far as practicable, in the manner best calculated to maximise the amount of
money obtained for the cryptoassets.

2.10Z7DB.8

At the first opportunity after the cryptoassets are converted, the UK-
connected cryptoasset service provider must arrange for the amount of money
obtained for the cryptoassets to be paid into an interest-bearing account
nominated by an authorised officer and held there.

2.10Z7DB.9

But—

2.10Z7DB.9.a

the UK-connected cryptoasset service provider may deduct any reasonable
expenses incurred by the provider in connection with the conversion of the
cryptoassets, and

2.10Z7DB.9.b

the amount to be treated as the proceeds of the conversion of the cryptoassets
is to be reduced accordingly.

2.10Z7DB.10

Interest accruing on the amount obtained for the cryptoassets is to be added
to it on its forfeiture or release.

2.10Z7DB.11

Where cryptoassets are converted in accordance with an order made under this
paragraph—

2.10Z7DB.11.a

the crypto wallet freezing order ceases to have effect,

2.10Z7DB.11.b

any application made under paragraph  10Z7CA (2)  in relation to the
cryptoassets which has not yet been determined or otherwise disposed of
(including under paragraph  10Z7CD  or  10Z7CE ) is to be treated as if it
were an application made under paragraph  10Z7DG (2)  in relation to the
converted cryptoassets, and

2.10Z7DB.11.c

any application made under paragraph  10Z7CF (2)  in relation to the crypto
wallet which has not yet been determined or otherwise disposed of may not be
proceeded with.

2.10Z7DB.12

An order made under this paragraph must provide for notice to be given to
persons affected by the order.

2.10Z7DB.13

No appeal may be made against an order made under this paragraph.

########## Conversion: existing forfeiture proceedings

2.10Z7DC

2.10Z7DC.1

Where—

2.10Z7DC.1.a

cryptoassets are forfeited under paragraph  10Z7CA  or  10Z7CE , and

2.10Z7DC.1.b

before the cryptoassets are realised or destroyed in accordance with paragraph
10Z7CI , an order is made under paragraph  10Z7DA  requiring the cryptoassets
to be converted into money,

paragraph  10Z7DJ (1)  applies in relation to the converted cryptoassets as if
they had been detained under paragraph  10Z7DD  and forfeited under paragraph
10Z7DG  (and accordingly paragraph  10Z7CI  ceases to apply).

2.10Z7DC.2

Where—

2.10Z7DC.2.a

cryptoassets are forfeited under paragraph  10Z7CA  or  10Z7CE , and

2.10Z7DC.2.b

before the cryptoassets are realised or destroyed in accordance with paragraph
10Z7CI , an order is made under paragraph  10Z7DB  requiring the cryptoassets
to be converted into money,

paragraph  10Z7DJ (2)  applies in relation to the converted cryptoassets as if
they had been detained under paragraph  10Z7DE  and forfeited under paragraph
10Z7DG  (and accordingly paragraph  10Z7CI  ceases to apply).

2.10Z7DC.3

Where—

2.10Z7DC.3.a

an appeal may be made under paragraph  10Z7CG (1)  or  (2)  in relation to the
determination of an application under paragraph  10Z7CA (2)  for the
forfeiture of cryptoassets (including where paragraph  10Z7CD  or  10Z7CE
applies), and

2.10Z7DC.3.b

an order is made under paragraph  10Z7DA  or  10Z7DB  requiring the
cryptoassets to be converted into money,

the appeal may instead be made under paragraph  10Z7DH  (within the time
allowed by paragraph  10Z7CG (4) ) as if it were an appeal against the
determination of an application under paragraph  10Z7DG .

2.10Z7DC.4

Where—

2.10Z7DC.4.a

an appeal is made under paragraph  10Z7CG (1)  or  (2)  in relation to the
determination of an application under paragraph  10Z7CA (2)  for the
forfeiture of cryptoassets (including where paragraph  10Z7CD  or  10Z7CE
applies), and

2.10Z7DC.4.b

before the appeal is determined or otherwise disposed of, an order is made
under paragraph  10Z7DA  or  10Z7DB  requiring the cryptoassets to be
converted into money,

the appeal is to be treated as if it had been made under paragraph  10Z7DH (1)
in relation to the determination of an application under paragraph  10Z7DG
for the forfeiture of the converted cryptoassets.

########## Detained cryptoassets: detention of proceeds of conversion

2.10Z7DD

2.10Z7DD.1

This paragraph applies where cryptoassets are converted into money in
accordance with an order under paragraph  10Z7DA .

2.10Z7DD.2

The proceeds of the conversion (the “converted cryptoassets”) may be detained
initially until the end of the period that the cryptoassets could, immediately
before the conversion, have been detained under Part  4BA  (ignoring the
possibility of any extension of that period).

2.10Z7DD.3

The period for which the converted cryptoassets may be detained may be
extended by an order made by the relevant court.

2.10Z7DD.4

An order under sub-paragraph  (3)  may not authorise the detention of the
converted cryptoassets beyond the end of the period of 2 years beginning with
the relevant date; but this is subject to sub-paragraph  (5) .

2.10Z7DD.5

The relevant court may make an order for the period of 2 years in sub-
paragraph  (4)  to be extended to a period of up to 3 years beginning with the
relevant date.

2.10Z7DD.6

In sub-paragraphs  (4)  and  (5)  “ the relevant date ” means the date on
which the first order under paragraph  10Z7AE  or  10Z7AG  (as the case may
be) was made in relation to the cryptoassets.

2.10Z7DD.7

An application for an order under sub-paragraph  (3)  or  (5)  may be made—

2.10Z7DD.7.a

in relation to England and Wales and Northern Ireland, by the Commissioners
for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs or an authorised officer;

2.10Z7DD.7.b

in relation to Scotland, by a procurator fiscal.

2.10Z7DD.8

The relevant court may make an order under sub-paragraph  (3)  only if
satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the converted
cryptoassets to be further detained—

2.10Z7DD.8.a

are within subsection (1)(a) or (b) of section 1, or

2.10Z7DD.8.b

are property earmarked as terrorist property.

2.10Z7DD.9

The relevant court may make an order under sub-paragraph  (5)  only if
satisfied that a request for assistance is outstanding in relation to the
cryptoassets mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1) .

2.10Z7DD.10

A “request for assistance” in sub-paragraph  (9)  means a request for
assistance in obtaining evidence (including information in any form or
article) in connection with the cryptoassets, made—

2.10Z7DD.10.a

by a judicial authority in the United Kingdom under section 7 of the Crime
(International Co-operation) Act 2003,

2.10Z7DD.10.b

by an authorised officer, to an authority exercising equivalent functions in a
foreign country,

2.10Z7DD.10.c

by the Scottish Ministers in connection with their functions under this
Schedule, to an authority exercising equivalent functions in a foreign
country, or

2.10Z7DD.10.d

by a person under section 375A or 408A of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002
(evidence overseas).

########## Frozen crypto wallets: detention of proceeds of conversion

2.10Z7DE

2.10Z7DE.1

This paragraph applies where cryptoassets held in a crypto wallet subject to a
crypto wallet freezing order are converted into money in accordance with an
order under paragraph  10Z7DB .

2.10Z7DE.2

The proceeds of the conversion (the “converted cryptoassets”) may be detained
initially until the end of the period that the crypto wallet freezing order
was, immediately before the conversion, due to have effect under Part  4BB
(ignoring the possibility of any extension of that period).

2.10Z7DE.3

The period for which the converted cryptoassets may be detained may be
extended by an order made by the relevant court.

2.10Z7DE.4

An order under sub-paragraph  (3)  may not authorise the detention of the
converted cryptoassets beyond the end of the period of 2 years beginning with
the day on which the crypto wallet freezing order was made; but this is
subject to sub-paragraph  (5) .

2.10Z7DE.5

The relevant court may make an order for the period of 2 years in sub-
paragraph  (4)  to be extended to a period of up to 3 years beginning with the
day on which the crypto wallet freezing order was made.

2.10Z7DE.6

An application for an order under sub-paragraph  (3)  or  (5)  may be made—

2.10Z7DE.6.a

in relation to England and Wales and Northern Ireland, by the Commissioners
for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs or an authorised officer;

2.10Z7DE.6.b

in relation to Scotland, by a procurator fiscal.

2.10Z7DE.7

The relevant court may make an order under sub-paragraph  (3)  only if
satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the converted
cryptoassets to be further detained—

2.10Z7DE.7.a

are within subsection (1)(a) or (b) of section 1, or

2.10Z7DE.7.b

are property earmarked as terrorist property.

2.10Z7DE.8

The relevant court may make an order under sub-paragraph  (5)  only if
satisfied that a request for assistance is outstanding in relation to the
cryptoassets mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1) .

2.10Z7DE.9

A “request for assistance” in sub-paragraph  (8)  means a request for
assistance in obtaining evidence (including information in any form or
article) in connection with the cryptoassets, made—

2.10Z7DE.9.a

by a judicial authority in the United Kingdom under section 7 of the Crime
(International Co-operation) Act 2003,

2.10Z7DE.9.b

by an authorised officer, to an authority exercising equivalent functions in a
foreign country,

2.10Z7DE.9.c

by the Scottish Ministers in connection with their functions under this
Schedule, to an authority exercising equivalent functions in a foreign
country, or

2.10Z7DE.9.d

by a person under section 375A or 408A of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002
(evidence overseas).

########## Release of detained converted cryptoassets

2.10Z7DF

2.10Z7DF.1

This paragraph applies while any converted cryptoassets are detained under
paragraph  10Z7DD  or  10Z7DE .

2.10Z7DF.2

The relevant court may, subject to sub-paragraph  (7) , direct the release of
the whole or any part of the converted cryptoassets if the following condition
is met.

2.10Z7DF.3

The condition is that, on an application by the relevant person, the court is
not satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the
converted cryptoassets to be released—

2.10Z7DF.3.a

are within subsection (1)(a) or (b) of section 1, or

2.10Z7DF.3.b

are property earmarked as terrorist property.

2.10Z7DF.4

In sub-paragraph  (3)  “ the relevant person ” means—

2.10Z7DF.4.a

in the case of converted cryptoassets detained under paragraph  10Z7DD , the
person from whom the cryptoassets mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1)  of that
paragraph were seized, and

2.10Z7DF.4.b

in the case of converted cryptoassets detained under paragraph  10Z7DE , any
person affected by the crypto wallet freezing order mentioned in sub-paragraph
(1)  of that paragraph.

2.10Z7DF.5

A person within sub-paragraph  (6)  may, subject to sub-paragraph  (7)  and
after notifying the magistrates’ court or sheriff under whose order converted
cryptoassets are being detained, release the whole or any part of the
converted cryptoassets if satisfied that the detention is no longer justified.

2.10Z7DF.6

The following persons are within this sub-paragraph—

2.10Z7DF.6.a

in relation to England and Wales or Northern Ireland, an authorised officer;

2.10Z7DF.6.b

in relation to Scotland, a procurator fiscal.

2.10Z7DF.7

Converted cryptoassets are not to be released under this paragraph (and so are
to continue to be detained)—

2.10Z7DF.7.a

if an application for their forfeiture under paragraph  10Z7DG  is made, until
any proceedings in pursuance of the application (including any proceedings on
appeal) are concluded;

2.10Z7DF.7.b

if (in the United Kingdom or elsewhere) proceedings are started against any
person for an offence with which the converted cryptoassets are connected,
until the proceedings are concluded.

########## Forfeiture

2.10Z7DG

2.10Z7DG.1

This paragraph applies while any converted cryptoassets are detained under
paragraph  10Z7DD  or  10Z7DE .

2.10Z7DG.2

An application for the forfeiture of some or all of the converted cryptoassets
may be made—

2.10Z7DG.2.a

to a magistrates’ court, by the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and
Customs or an authorised officer;

2.10Z7DG.2.b

to the sheriff, by the Scottish Ministers.

2.10Z7DG.3

The court or sheriff may order the forfeiture of some or all of the converted
cryptoassets if satisfied that the converted cryptoassets to be forfeited—

2.10Z7DG.3.a

are within subsection (1)(a) or (b) of section 1, or

2.10Z7DG.3.b

are property earmarked as terrorist property.

2.10Z7DG.4

But in the case of property which belongs to joint tenants, one of whom is an
excepted joint owner, the order may not apply to so much of it as the court
thinks is attributable to the excepted joint owner’s share.

2.10Z7DG.5

Where an application for forfeiture is made under this paragraph, the
converted cryptoassets are to continue to be detained under paragraph  10Z7DD
or  10Z7DE  (and may not be released under any power conferred by this Part)
until any proceedings in pursuance of the application (including any
proceedings on appeal) are concluded.

2.10Z7DG.6

For the purposes of this paragraph—

2.10Z7DG.6.a

an excepted joint owner is a joint tenant who obtained the property in
circumstances in which it would not (as against them) be earmarked, and

2.10Z7DG.6.b

references to the excepted joint owner’s share of property are to so much of
the property as would have been theirs if the joint tenancy had been severed.

########## Forfeiture: appeals

2.10Z7DH

2.10Z7DH.1

Any party to proceedings for an order for the forfeiture of converted
cryptoassets under paragraph  10Z7DG  who is aggrieved by an order under that
paragraph or by the decision of the court not to make such an order may
appeal—

2.10Z7DH.1.a

from an order or decision of a magistrates’ court in England and Wales, to the
Crown Court;

2.10Z7DH.1.b

from an order or decision of the sheriff, to the Sheriff Appeal Court;

2.10Z7DH.1.c

from an order or decision of a magistrates’ court in Northern Ireland, to a
county court.

2.10Z7DH.2

An appeal under sub-paragraph  (1)  must be made before the end of the period
of 30 days starting with the day on which the court makes the order or
decision.

2.10Z7DH.3

The court hearing the appeal may make any order it thinks appropriate.

2.10Z7DH.4

If the court upholds an appeal against an order forfeiting the converted
cryptoassets, it may, subject to sub-paragraph  (5) , order the release of
some or all of the converted cryptoassets.

2.10Z7DH.5

If (in the United Kingdom or elsewhere) proceedings are started against any
person for an offence with which the converted cryptoassets are connected, the
converted cryptoassets are not to be released under this paragraph (and so are
to continue to be detained) until the proceedings are concluded.

########## Extended time for appealing in certain cases where deproscription order made

2.10Z7DI

2.10Z7DI.1

This paragraph applies where—

2.10Z7DI.1.a

a successful application for an order under paragraph  10Z7DG  relies (wholly
or partly) on the fact that an organisation is proscribed,

2.10Z7DI.1.b

an application under section 4 of the Terrorism Act 2000 for a deproscription
order in respect of the organisation is refused by the Secretary of State,

2.10Z7DI.1.c

the converted cryptoassets forfeited by the order under paragraph  10Z7DG
were converted from cryptoassets which were seized under this Schedule on or
after the date of the refusal of that application,

2.10Z7DI.1.d

an appeal against that refusal is allowed under section 5 of the Terrorism Act
2000,

2.10Z7DI.1.e

a deproscription order is made accordingly, and

2.10Z7DI.1.f

if the order is made in reliance on section 123(5) of the Terrorism Act 2000,
a resolution is passed by each House of Parliament under section 123(5)(b) of
that Act.

2.10Z7DI.2

Where this paragraph applies, an appeal under paragraph  10Z7DH  against the
making of an order under paragraph  10Z7DG  may be brought at any time before
the end of the period of 30 days beginning with the date on which the
deproscription order comes into force.

2.10Z7DI.3

In this paragraph a “ deproscription order ” means an order under section
3(3)(b) or (8) of the Terrorism Act 2000.

########## Application of forfeited converted cryptoassets

2.10Z7DJ

2.10Z7DJ.1

Converted cryptoassets detained under paragraph  10Z7DD  and forfeited under
paragraph  10Z7DG , and any accrued interest on them, must be applied as
follows—

2.10Z7DJ.1.a

first, they must be applied in making any payment of reasonable expenses
incurred by an authorised officer in connection with the safe storage of the
cryptoassets mentioned in paragraph  10Z7DD (1)  during the period the
cryptoassets were detained under Part  4BA ;

2.10Z7DJ.1.b

second, they must be applied in making any payment of reasonable expenses
incurred by an authorised officer in connection with the conversion of those
cryptoassets under paragraph  10Z7DA (6) ;

2.10Z7DJ.1.c

third, they must be applied in making any payment of reasonable expenses
incurred by an authorised officer in connection with the detention of the
converted cryptoassets under this Part;

2.10Z7DJ.1.d

fourth, they must be paid—

2.10Z7DJ.1.d.i

if forfeited by a magistrates’ court in England and Wales or Northern Ireland,
into the Consolidated Fund, and

2.10Z7DJ.1.d.ii

if forfeited by the sheriff, into the Scottish Consolidated Fund.

2.10Z7DJ.2

Converted cryptoassets detained under paragraph  10Z7DE  and forfeited under
paragraph  10Z7DG , and any accrued interest on them, must be applied as
follows—

2.10Z7DJ.2.a

first, they must be applied in making any payment of reasonable expenses
incurred by an authorised officer in connection with the detention of the
converted cryptoassets under this Part;

2.10Z7DJ.2.b

second, they must be paid—

2.10Z7DJ.2.b.i

if forfeited by a magistrates’ court in England and Wales or Northern Ireland,
into the Consolidated Fund, and

2.10Z7DJ.2.b.ii

if forfeited by the sheriff, into the Scottish Consolidated Fund.

2.10Z7DJ.3

But converted cryptoassets are not to be applied or paid under sub-paragraph
(1)  or  (2) —

2.10Z7DJ.3.a

before the end of the period within which an appeal under paragraph  10Z7DH
may be made, or

2.10Z7DJ.3.b

if a person appeals under that paragraph, before the appeal is determined or
otherwise disposed of.

########## Victims etc

2.10Z7DK

2.10Z7DK.1

This paragraph applies where converted cryptoassets are detained under this
Part.

2.10Z7DK.2

Where this paragraph applies, a person (“ P ”) who claims that the relevant
cryptoassets belonged to P immediately before—

2.10Z7DK.2.a

the relevant cryptoassets were seized, or

2.10Z7DK.2.b

the crypto wallet freezing order was made in relation to the crypto wallet in
which the relevant cryptoassets were held,

may apply to the relevant court for some or all of the converted cryptoassets
to be released to P.

2.10Z7DK.3

The application may be made in the course of proceedings under paragraph
10Z7DD ,  10Z7DE  or  10Z7DG  or at any other time.

2.10Z7DK.4

The relevant court may, subject to sub-paragraph  (9) , order the converted
cryptoassets to which the application relates to be released to the applicant
if it appears to the relevant court that the condition in sub-paragraph  (5)
is met.

2.10Z7DK.5

The condition in this sub-paragraph is that—

2.10Z7DK.5.a

the applicant was deprived of the relevant cryptoassets, or of property which
they represent, by criminal conduct,

2.10Z7DK.5.b

the relevant cryptoassets the applicant was deprived of were not, immediately
before the applicant was deprived of them, property obtained by or in return
for criminal conduct and nor did they then represent such property, and

2.10Z7DK.5.c

the relevant cryptoassets belonged to the applicant immediately before—

2.10Z7DK.5.c.i

the relevant cryptoassets were seized, or

2.10Z7DK.5.c.ii

the crypto wallet freezing order was made in relation to the crypto wallet in
which the relevant cryptoassets were held.

2.10Z7DK.6

If sub-paragraph  (7)  applies, the relevant court may, subject to sub-
paragraph  (9) , order the converted cryptoassets to which the application
relates to be released to the applicant or to the person from whom the
relevant cryptoassets were seized.

2.10Z7DK.7

This sub-paragraph applies where—

2.10Z7DK.7.a

the applicant is not the person from whom the relevant cryptoassets were
seized,

2.10Z7DK.7.b

it appears to the relevant court that the relevant cryptoassets belonged to
the applicant immediately before—

2.10Z7DK.7.b.i

the relevant cryptoassets were seized, or

2.10Z7DK.7.b.ii

the crypto wallet freezing order was made in relation to the crypto wallet in
which the relevant cryptoassets were held,

2.10Z7DK.7.c

the relevant court is satisfied that the release condition is met in relation
to the converted cryptoassets, and

2.10Z7DK.7.d

no objection to the making of an order under sub-paragraph  (6)  has been made
by the person from whom the relevant cryptoassets were seized.

2.10Z7DK.8

The release condition is met—

2.10Z7DK.8.a

if the conditions in this Part for the detention of the converted cryptoassets
are no longer met, or

2.10Z7DK.8.b

in relation to converted cryptoassets which are subject to an application for
forfeiture under paragraph  10Z7DG , if the court or sheriff decides not to
make an order under that paragraph in relation to the converted cryptoassets.

2.10Z7DK.9

If (in the United Kingdom or elsewhere) proceedings are started against any
person for an offence with which the converted cryptoassets are connected, the
converted cryptoassets are not to be released under this paragraph (and so are
to continue to be detained) until the proceedings are concluded

2.10Z7DK.10

Where sub-paragraph  (2)(b)  applies, references in this paragraph to a person
from whom relevant cryptoassets were seized include a reference to a person by
or for whom the crypto wallet mentioned in that provision was administered
immediately before the crypto wallet freezing order was made in relation to
the crypto wallet.

2.10Z7DK.11

In this paragraph “ the relevant cryptoassets ” means—

2.10Z7DK.11.a

in relation to converted cryptoassets detained under paragraph  10Z7DD , some
or all of the cryptoassets mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1)  of that paragraph,
and

2.10Z7DK.11.b

in relation to converted cryptoassets detained under paragraph  10Z7DE , some
or all of the cryptoassets mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1)  of that paragraph.

########## Compensation

2.10Z7DL

2.10Z7DL.1

This paragraph applies if no order is made under paragraph  10Z7DG  in respect
of converted cryptoassets detained under this Part.

2.10Z7DL.2

Where this paragraph applies, the following may make an application to the
relevant court for compensation—

2.10Z7DL.2.a

a person to whom the relevant cryptoassets belonged immediately before they
were seized;

2.10Z7DL.2.b

a person from whom the relevant cryptoassets were seized;

2.10Z7DL.2.c

a person by or for whom the crypto wallet mentioned in paragraph  10Z7DE (1)
was administered immediately before the crypto wallet freezing order was made
in relation to the crypto wallet.

2.10Z7DL.3

If the relevant court is satisfied that—

2.10Z7DL.3.a

the applicant has suffered loss as a result of—

2.10Z7DL.3.a.i

the conversion of the relevant cryptoassets into money, or

2.10Z7DL.3.a.ii

the detention of the converted cryptoassets, and

2.10Z7DL.3.b

the circumstances are exceptional,

the relevant court may order compensation to be paid to the applicant.

2.10Z7DL.4

The amount of compensation to be paid is the amount the relevant court thinks
reasonable, having regard to the loss suffered and any other relevant
circumstances.

2.10Z7DL.5

If the relevant cryptoassets were seized, or the relevant crypto wallet
freezing order was applied for, by an officer of Revenue and Customs, the
compensation is to be paid by the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and
Customs.

2.10Z7DL.6

If the relevant cryptoassets were seized, or the relevant crypto wallet
freezing order was applied for, by a constable, the compensation is to be paid
as follows—

2.10Z7DL.6.a

in the case of a constable of a police force in England and Wales, it is to be
paid out of the police fund from which the expenses of the police force are
met;

2.10Z7DL.6.b

in the case of a constable of the Police Service of Scotland, it is to be paid
by the Scottish Police Authority;

2.10Z7DL.6.c

in the case of a police officer within the meaning of the Police (Northern
Ireland) Act 2000, it is to be paid out of money provided by the Chief
Constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland.

2.10Z7DL.7

If the relevant cryptoassets were seized, or the relevant crypto wallet
freezing order was applied for, by a counter-terrorism financial investigator,
the compensation is to be paid as follows—

2.10Z7DL.7.a

in the case of a counter-terrorism financial investigator who was—

2.10Z7DL.7.a.i

a member of the civilian staff of a police force (including the metropolitan
police force), within the meaning of Part 1 of the Police Reform and Social
Responsibility Act 2011, or

2.10Z7DL.7.a.ii

a member of staff of the City of London police force,

it is to be paid out of the police fund from which the expenses of the police
force are met;

2.10Z7DL.7.b

in the case of a counter-terrorism financial investigator who was a member of
staff of the Police Service of Northern Ireland, it is to be paid out of money
provided by the Chief Constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland.

2.10Z7DL.8

If the relevant cryptoassets were seized, or the relevant crypto wallet
freezing order was applied for, by an immigration officer, the compensation is
to be paid by the Secretary of State.

2.10Z7DL.9

This paragraph does not apply if the relevant court makes an order under
paragraph  10Z7DK .

2.10Z7DL.10

In this paragraph—

“ the relevant cryptoassets ” means— in relation to converted cryptoassets
detained under paragraph  10Z7DD , the cryptoassets mentioned in sub-paragraph
(1)  of that paragraph; in relation to converted cryptoassets detained under
paragraph  10Z7DE , the cryptoassets mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1)  of that
paragraph; “ the relevant crypto wallet freezing order ”, in relation to
converted cryptoassets detained under paragraph  10Z7DE , means the crypto
wallet freezing order mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1)  of that paragraph.

3

In Part 1, in paragraph 1(1) (terrorist cash), for “and 4B” substitute  “to
4BD ” .

4

In Part 4B (forfeiture of terrorist money held in bank and building society
accounts), after paragraph 10Z6 insert—

######### Victims etc

4.10Z6A

4.10Z6A.1

A person who claims that money in respect of which an account freezing order
has effect belongs to them may apply to the relevant court for the money to be
released.

4.10Z6A.2

The application may be made in the course of proceedings under paragraph 10S
or 10Z2 or at any other time.

4.10Z6A.3

The court may, subject to sub-paragraph  (7) , order the money to which the
application relates to be released to the applicant if it appears to the court
that—

4.10Z6A.3.a

the applicant was deprived of the money to which the application relates, or
of property which it represents, by criminal conduct,

4.10Z6A.3.b

the money the applicant was deprived of was not, immediately before the
applicant was deprived of it, property obtained by or in return for criminal
conduct and nor did it then represent such property, and

4.10Z6A.3.c

the money belongs to the applicant.

4.10Z6A.4

If sub-paragraph  (5)  applies, the court may, subject to sub-paragraph  (7) ,
order the money to which the application relates to be released to the
applicant.

4.10Z6A.5

This sub-paragraph applies where—

4.10Z6A.5.a

the applicant is not the person from whom the money to which the application
relates was seized,

4.10Z6A.5.b

it appears to the court that the money belongs to the applicant,

4.10Z6A.5.c

the court is satisfied that the release condition is met in relation to the
money, and

4.10Z6A.5.d

no objection to the making of an order under sub-paragraph  (4)  has been made
by the person from whom the money was seized.

4.10Z6A.6

The release condition is met—

4.10Z6A.6.a

in relation to money held in a frozen account, if the conditions for making an
order under paragraph 10S in relation to the money are no longer met, or

4.10Z6A.6.b

in relation to money held in a frozen account which is subject to an
application for forfeiture under paragraph 10Z2, if the court or sheriff
decides not to make an order under that paragraph in relation to the money.

4.10Z6A.7

Money is not to be released under this paragraph—

4.10Z6A.7.a

if an account forfeiture notice under paragraph 10W is given in respect of the
money, until any proceedings in pursuance of the notice (including any
proceedings on appeal) are concluded;

4.10Z6A.7.b

if an application for its forfeiture under paragraph 10Z2, is made, until any
proceedings in pursuance of the application (including any proceedings on
appeal) are concluded;

4.10Z6A.7.c

if (in the United Kingdom or elsewhere) proceedings are started against any
person for an offence with which the cash is connected, until the proceedings
are concluded.

4.10Z6A.8

In relation to money held in an account that is subject to an account freezing
order, references in this paragraph to a person from whom money was seized
include a reference to a person by or for whom the account was operated
immediately before the account freezing order was made.

5

In Part 6, in paragraph 19(1), at the appropriate places insert—

“ cryptoasset ” has the meaning given by paragraph  10Z7A (1) ;

;

“ crypto wallet ” has the meaning given by paragraph  10Z7A (1) ;

;

“ justice of the peace ”, in relation to Northern Ireland, means lay
magistrate;

;

“ terrorist cryptoasset ” has the meaning given by paragraph  10Z7A (1) ;

.

##### Amendments to the Terrorism Act 2000

6

The Terrorism Act 2000 is amended as follows.

7

In Schedule 6 (financial information)—

7.a

in paragraph 6(1) (meaning of financial institution)—

7.a.i

omit the “and” after paragraph (ha), and

7.a.ii

after paragraph (i) insert—

7.a.ii.j

a cryptoasset exchange provider, and

7.a.ii.k

a custodian wallet provider.

;

7.b

after paragraph 6(1AA) insert—

7.b.1AB

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1)(j), “ cryptoasset exchange provider ”
means a firm or sole practitioner who by way of business provides one or more
of the following services, including where the firm or sole practitioner does
so as creator or issuer of any of the cryptoassets involved—

7.b.1AB.a

exchanging or arranging or making arrangements with a view to the exchange of,
cryptoassets for money or money for cryptoassets,

7.b.1AB.b

exchanging, or arranging or making arrangements with a view to the exchange
of, one cryptoasset for another, or

7.b.1AB.c

operating a machine which utilises automated processes to exchange
cryptoassets for money or money for cryptoassets.

7.b.1AC

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1)(k), “ custodian wallet provider ” means
a firm or sole practitioner who by way of business provides services to
safeguard, or to safeguard and administer—

7.b.1AC.a

cryptoassets on behalf of its customers, or

7.b.1AC.b

private cryptographic keys on behalf of its customers in order to hold, store
and transfer cryptoassets.

7.b.1AD

For the purposes of sub-paragraphs (1AB) and (1AC), “ cryptoasset ” means a
cryptographically secured digital representation of value or contractual
rights that uses a form of distributed ledger technology and can be
transferred, stored or traded electronically.

7.b.1AE

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1AB)—

7.b.1AE.a

“ cryptoasset ” includes a right to, or interest in, the cryptoasset;

7.b.1AE.b

“ money ” means—

7.b.1AE.b.i

money in sterling,

7.b.1AE.b.ii

money in any other currency, or

7.b.1AE.b.iii

money in any other medium of exchange,

but does not include a cryptoasset.

7.b.1AF

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the definitions in sub-
paragraphs (1AB) to (1AE).”

8

In section 123 (orders and regulations), after subsection (6ZE) insert—

8.6ZF

Regulations under paragraph 6(1AF) of Schedule 6 may not be made unless a
draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by a resolution of
each House of Parliament.

Economic crime offences

Section 193

##### Common law offences

1

Cheating the public revenue.

2

Conspiracy to defraud.

3

In Scotland, the following offences at common law—

3.a

fraud;

3.b

uttering;

3.c

embezzlement;

3.d

theft.

##### Statutory offences

4

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Theft Act 1968—

4.a

section 1 (theft);

4.b

section 17 (false accounting);

4.c

section 19 (false statements by company directors etc);

4.d

section 20 (suppression etc of documents);

4.e

section 24A (dishonestly retaining a wrongful credit).

5

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Theft Act (Northern
Ireland) 1969—

5.a

section 1 (theft);

5.b

section 17 (false accounting);

5.c

section 18 (false statements by company directors etc);

5.d

section 19 (suppression etc of documents);

5.e

section 23A (dishonestly retaining a wrongful credit).

6

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Customs and Excise
Management Act 1979—

6.a

section 68 (offences in relation to exportation of prohibited or restricted
goods);

6.b

section 167 (untrue declarations etc);

6.c

section 170 (fraudulent evasion of duty).

7

An offence under the Forgery and Counterfeiting Act 1981 (forgery,
counterfeiting and kindred offences).

8

An offence under section 72 of the Value Added Tax Act 1994 (fraudulent
evasion of VAT).

9

An offence under section 46A of the Criminal Law (Consolidation) (Scotland)
Act 1995 (false monetary instruments).

10

An offence under any of the following sections of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000—

10.a

section 23 (contravention of prohibition on carrying on regulated activity
unless authorised or exempt);

10.b

section 25 (contravention of restrictions on financial promotion);

10.c

section 85 (prohibition of dealing etc in transferable securities without
approved prospectus);

10.d

section 398 (misleading the FCA or PRA).

11

An offence under any of the following sections of the Terrorism Act 2000—

11.a

section 15 (fund-raising);

11.b

section 16 (use and possession);

11.c

section 17 (funding arrangements);

11.d

section 18 (money laundering);

11.e

section 63 (terrorist finance: jurisdiction).

12

An offence under any of the following sections of the Proceeds of Crime Act
2002—

12.a

section 327 (concealing etc criminal property);

12.b

section 328 (arrangements facilitating acquisition etc of criminal property);

12.c

section 329 (acquisition, use and possession of criminal property);

12.d

section 330 (failing to disclose knowledge or suspicion of money laundering);

12.e

section 333A (tipping off).

13

An offence under any of the following sections of the Companies Act 2006—

13.a

section 658 (general rule against limited company acquiring its own shares);

13.b

section 680 (prohibited financial assistance);

13.c

section 993 (fraudulent trading).

14

An offence under any of the following sections of the Fraud Act 2006—

14.a

section 1 (fraud);

14.b

section 6 (possession etc of articles for use in frauds);

14.c

section 7 (making or supplying articles for use in frauds);

14.d

section 9 (participating in fraudulent business carried on by sole trader);

14.e

section 11 (obtaining services dishonestly).

15

An offence under any of the following sections of the Bribery Act 2010—

15.a

section 1 (bribing another person);

15.b

section 2 (being bribed);

15.c

section 6 (bribery of foreign public officials);

15.d

section 7 (failure of commercial organisations to prevent bribery).

16

An offence under section 49 of the Criminal Justice and Licensing (Scotland)
Act 2010 (possession, making or supplying articles for use in frauds).

17

An offence under any of the following sections of the Financial Services Act
2012—

17.a

section 89 (misleading statements);

17.b

section 90 (misleading impressions);

17.c

section 91 (misleading statements etc in relation to benchmarks).

18

An offence under section 45 or 46 of the Criminal Finances Act 2017 (failure
to prevent the facilitation of UK tax evasion offences or foreign tax evasion
offences).

19

An offence under regulation 86 of the Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing
and Transfer of Funds (Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017.

20

An offence under regulations made under section 49 of the Sanctions and Anti-
Money Laundering Act 2018 (money laundering and terrorist financing etc).

21

An offence under section 199 of this Act (failure to prevent fraud).

22

22.1

An offence under an instrument made under section 2(2) of the European
Communities Act 1972 for the purpose of implementing, or otherwise in relation
to, EU obligations created or arising by or under an EU financial sanctions
Regulation.

22.2

An offence under an Act or under subordinate legislation where the offence was
created for the purpose of implementing a UN financial sanctions Resolution.

22.3

An offence under paragraph 7 of Schedule 3 to the Anti-terrorism, Crime and
Security Act 2001 (freezing orders).

22.4

An offence under paragraph 30 or 30A of Schedule 7 to the Counter-Terrorism
Act 2008 where the offence relates to a requirement of the kind mentioned in
paragraph 13 of that Schedule.

22.5

An offence under paragraph 31 of Schedule 7 to the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008.

22.6

An offence under regulations made under section 1 of the Sanctions and Anti-
Money Laundering Act 2018 (sanctions regulations).

22.7

In this paragraph—

“ EU financial sanctions Regulation ” and “ UN financial sanctions Resolution
” have the same meanings as in Part 8 of the Policing and Crime Act 2017 (see
section 143 of that Act); “ subordinate legislation ” has the same meaning as
in the Interpretation Act 1978.

Criminal liability of bodies: economic crimes

Section 196

##### Common law offences

1

Cheating the public revenue.

2

Conspiracy to defraud.

3

In Scotland, the following offences at common law—

3.a

fraud;

3.b

uttering;

3.c

embezzlement;

3.d

theft.

##### Statutory offences

4

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Theft Act 1968—

4.a

section 1 (theft);

4.b

section 17 (false accounting);

4.c

section 19 (false statements by company directors etc);

4.d

section 20 (suppression etc of documents);

4.e

section 24A (dishonestly retaining a wrongful credit).

5

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Theft Act (Northern
Ireland) 1969—

5.a

section 1 (theft);

5.b

section 17 (false accounting);

5.c

section 18 (false statements by company directors etc);

5.d

section 19 (suppression etc of documents);

5.e

section 23A (dishonestly retaining a wrongful credit).

6

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Customs and Excise
Management Act 1979—

6.a

section 68 (offences in relation to exportation of prohibited or restricted
goods);

6.b

section 167 (untrue declarations etc);

6.c

section 170 (fraudulent evasion of duty).

7

An offence under the Forgery and Counterfeiting Act 1981 (forgery,
counterfeiting and kindred offences).

8

An offence under section 72 of the Value Added Tax Act 1994 (fraudulent
evasion of VAT).

9

An offence under section 46A of the Criminal Law (Consolidation) (Scotland)
Act 1995 (false monetary instruments).

10

An offence under any of the following sections of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000—

10.a

section 23 (contravention of prohibition on carrying on regulated activity
unless authorised or exempt);

10.b

section 25 (contravention of restrictions on financial promotion);

10.c

section 85 (prohibition on dealing etc in transferable securities without
approved prospectus);

10.d

section 398 (misleading the FCA or PRA).

11

An offence under any of the following sections of the Terrorism Act 2000—

11.a

section 15 (fund-raising);

11.b

section 16 (use and possession);

11.c

section 17 (funding arrangements);

11.d

section 18 (money laundering);

11.e

section 63 (terrorist finance: jurisdiction).

12

An offence under any of the following sections of the Proceeds of Crime Act
2002—

12.a

section 327 (concealing etc criminal property);

12.b

section 328 (arrangements facilitating acquisition etc of criminal property);

12.c

section 329 (acquisition, use and possession of criminal property);

12.d

section 330 (failing to disclose knowledge or suspicion of money laundering);

12.e

section 333A (tipping off: regulated sector).

13

An offence under section 993 of the Companies Act 2006 (fraudulent trading).

14

An offence under any of the following sections of the Fraud Act 2006—

14.a

section 1 (fraud);

14.b

section 6 (possession etc of articles for use in frauds);

14.c

section 7 (making or supplying articles for use in frauds);

14.d

section 9 (participating in fraudulent business carried on by sole trader);

14.e

section 11 (obtaining services dishonestly).

15

An offence under any of the following sections of the Bribery Act 2010—

15.a

section 1 (bribing another person);

15.b

section 2 (being bribed);

15.c

section 6 (bribery of foreign public officials).

16

An offence under section 49 of the Criminal Justice and Licensing (Scotland)
Act 2010 (possession, making or supplying articles for use in frauds).

17

An offence under any of the following sections of the Financial Services Act
2012—

17.a

section 89 (misleading statements);

17.b

section 90 (misleading impressions);

17.c

section 91 (misleading statements etc in relation to benchmarks).

18

An offence under regulation 86 of the Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing
and Transfer of Funds (Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017.

19

An offence under regulations made under section 49 of the Sanctions and Anti-
Money Laundering Act 2018 (money laundering and terrorist financing etc).

20

20.1

An offence under an instrument made under section 2(2) of the European
Communities Act 1972 for the purpose of implementing, or otherwise in relation
to, EU obligations created or arising by or under an EU financial sanctions
Regulation.

20.2

An offence under an Act or under subordinate legislation where the offence was
created for the purpose of implementing a UN financial sanctions Resolution.

20.3

An offence under paragraph 7 of Schedule 3 to the Anti-terrorism, Crime and
Security Act 2001 (freezing orders).

20.4

An offence under paragraph 30 or 30A of Schedule 7 to the Counter-Terrorism
Act 2008 where the offence relates to a requirement of the kind mentioned in
paragraph 13 of that Schedule.

20.5

An offence under paragraph 31 of Schedule 7 to the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008.

20.6

An offence under regulations made under section 1 of the Sanctions and Anti-
Money Laundering Act 2018 (sanctions regulations).

20.7

In this paragraph—

“ EU financial sanctions Regulation ” and “ UN financial sanctions Resolution
” have the same meanings as in Part 8 of the Policing and Crime Act 2017 (see
section 143 of that Act); “ subordinate legislation ” has the same meaning as
in the Interpretation Act 1978.

Failure to prevent fraud: fraud offences

Section 199

##### Common law offences

1

Cheating the public revenue.

2

In Scotland, the following offences at common law—

2.a

fraud;

2.b

uttering;

2.c

embezzlement.

##### Statutory offences

3

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Theft Act 1968—

3.a

section 17 (false accounting);

3.b

section 19 (false statements by company directors etc).

4

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Theft Act (Northern
Ireland) 1969—

4.a

section 17 (false accounting);

4.b

section 18 (false statements by company directors etc).

5

An offence under section 993 of the Companies Act 2006 (fraudulent trading).

6

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Fraud Act 2006—

6.a

section 1 (fraud);

6.b

section 9 (participating in fraudulent business carried on by sole trader);

6.c

section 11 (obtaining services dishonestly).

