Title: Employment Relations (Flexible Working) Act 2023
Date: 2024-04-07
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/33

## Employment Relations (Flexible Working) Act 2023

      B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Flexible working

1

1.1

Section 80F of the Employment Rights Act 1996 (flexible working: right to
request contract variation) is amended as follows.

1.2

In subsection (2)—

1.2.a

at the end of paragraph (a) insert  “and” ;

1.2.b

omit paragraph (c) and the “and” preceding it.

1.3

For subsection (4) substitute—

1.3.4

An employee may not—

1.3.4.a

make more than two applications under this section to the same employer during
any period of 12 months;

1.3.4.b

make an application under this section to an employer if another such
application to the same employer is proceeding.

1.3.4A

For the purposes of this section an application is “proceeding” during any of
these periods—

1.3.4A.a

the period—

1.3.4A.a.i

beginning when the application is made, and

1.3.4A.a.ii

ending when the application is concluded;

1.3.4A.b

any period—

1.3.4A.b.i

beginning when an appeal against a decision to refuse the application is
brought, and

1.3.4A.b.ii

ending when the appeal is concluded;

1.3.4A.c

any period—

1.3.4A.c.i

beginning when, in accordance with section 80G(1C)(b), the decision period for
an application or appeal is extended with retrospective effect, and

1.3.4A.c.ii

ending when the application or appeal is concluded.

1.3.4B

For the purposes of this section an application or appeal is “concluded” when
any of these events occurs—

1.3.4B.a

a decision is made on the application or appeal under section 80G;

1.3.4B.b

the application or appeal is withdrawn;

1.3.4B.c

the application or appeal is disposed of by agreement;

1.3.4B.d

the decision period specified in section 80G for the application or appeal
ends without a decision, withdrawal or agreed disposal.”

1.4

Section 80G of the Employment Rights Act 1996 (flexible working: employer’s
duties in relation to application) is amended as follows.

1.5

In subsection (1), after paragraph (a) insert—

1.5.aza

shall not refuse the application unless the employee has been consulted about
the application,”.

1.6

In subsection (1B)(a), for “three months” substitute  “two months” .

1.7

The amendments made by this section apply in respect of—

1.7.a

an employee’s entitlement, on or after the coming into force of this section,
to make an application under section 80F of the Employment Rights Act 1996,
and

1.7.b

any such application made on or after the coming into force of this section,

regardless of when the employment, contract or other arrangement (as the case
may be) began.

1.8

On or after the coming into force of this section, in any determination of the
number of applications made under section 80F of the Employment Rights Act
1996 by an employee during a period of 12 months, any such application made
before that coming into force (and during that period) is to be included.

### Extent, commencement and short title

2

2.1

This Act extends to England and Wales and Scotland.

2.2

Section 1 comes into force on such day as the Secretary of State may by
regulations made by statutory instrument appoint; and different days may be
appointed for different purposes.

2.3

This section comes into force on the day on which this Act is passed.

2.4

This Act may be cited as the Employment Relations (Flexible Working) Act 2023.

