Title: Employment (Allocation of Tips) Act 2023
Date: 2024-10-01
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/13

## Employment (Allocation of Tips) Act 2023

      B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Tips, gratuities and service charges

1

After section 27B of the Employment Rights Act 1996 insert—

####### TIPS, GRATUITIES AND SERVICE CHARGES

######## Requirement to deal with tips, gratuities and service charges

######### Qualifying tips, gratuities and service charges

1.27C

1.27C.1

This Part makes provision for—

1.27C.1.a

how employers must deal with qualifying tips, gratuities and service charges,
and

1.27C.1.b

the Secretary of State to issue a code of practice to promote fairness and
transparency in relation to the distribution of qualifying tips, gratuities
and service charges.

1.27C.2

In this Part “ qualifying tips, gratuities and service charges ” means—

1.27C.2.a

employer-received tips, and

1.27C.2.b

worker-received tips which—

1.27C.2.b.i

are subject to employer control, or

1.27C.2.b.ii

are connected with any other worker-received tips which are subject to
employer control.

1.27C.3

An “employer-received tip” is an amount paid by a customer of an employer by
way of a tip, gratuity or service charge (however described) which—

1.27C.3.a

is received upon its payment or subsequently by the employer or an associated
person, or

1.27C.3.b

is received upon its payment by a person under a payment arrangement made
between the employer and that person.

1.27C.4

A “worker-received tip” is an amount paid by a customer of an employer by way
of a tip, gratuity or service charge (however described) which—

1.27C.4.a

is received upon its payment by a worker of the employer, and

1.27C.4.b

is not subsequently received by the employer or an associated person.

1.27C.5

For the purposes of subsection  (2)(b) —

1.27C.5.a

a worker-received tip is subject to employer control if the employer or an
associated person exercises control or significant influence over the
allocation of the tip;

1.27C.5.b

a worker-received tip (“tip A”) is connected with another worker-received tip
which is subject to employer control (“tip B”) if—

1.27C.5.b.i

both tips are paid at, or are otherwise attributable to, the same place of
business, and

1.27C.5.b.ii

tip A is paid later in the week, or in the week following the week, in which
tip B is paid.

1.27C.6

In this section the “ amount paid by a customer of an employer by way of a
tip, gratuity or service charge ” means the actual amount paid by the customer
(and accordingly any deductions from the amount paid, whether deducted by the
employer or any other person, are to be disregarded when determining the
amount paid by the customer).

1.27C.7

An amount paid by a customer of an employer is not paid by way of a tip,
gratuity or service charge to the extent that the amount represents payment of
value added tax.

1.27C.8

If an amount is not paid in money, it can be a qualifying tip, gratuity or
service charge only if it is paid in the form of a voucher, stamp, token or
similar item which is—

1.27C.8.a

of a fixed value expressed in monetary terms, and

1.27C.8.b

capable of being exchanged (whether on its own or together with other
vouchers, stamps, tokens or items, and whether immediately or only after a
time) for money, goods or services (or for any combination of two or more of
those things).

1.27C.9

In this section—

      “ payment arrangement ” means an arrangement between an employer and
another person under which payments made by customers of the employer are to
be received by the other person instead of the employer;           “ week ”
means any period of seven days beginning with a Monday (and ending with a
Sunday).

### How tips etc must be dealt with

2

After section  27C  of the Employment Rights Act 1996 insert—

####### How tips etc must be dealt with

2.27D

2.27D.1

An employer must ensure that the total amount of the qualifying tips,
gratuities and service charges paid at, or otherwise attributable to, a place
of business of the employer is allocated fairly between workers of the
employer at that place of business.

2.27D.2

Where a worker is allocated an amount of employer-received tips in accordance
with subsection  (1) , that amount is payable to the worker by the employer.

2.27D.3

In determining what would be a fair allocation of qualifying tips, gratuities
and service charges under this section or section  27E  (non-public places of
business), regard must be had to the relevant provisions of any code of
practice issued under this Part.

2.27D.4

See also sections  27E  (non-public places of business) and  27F  (independent
troncs).

####### Non-public places of business

2.27E

2.27E.1

This section applies where—

2.27E.1.a

qualifying tips, gratuities and service charges are paid at, or are otherwise
attributable to, a non-public place of business of an employer (the “non-
public tips”), and

2.27E.1.b

the employer also has one or more public places of business.

2.27E.2

The employer may comply with the requirement in section  27D (1)  to ensure
that the total amount of the non-public tips is allocated fairly between
workers of the employer at the non-public place of business by instead
ensuring that the total amount of the non-public tips is allocated fairly
between both—

2.27E.2.a

workers of the employer at the non-public place of business, and

2.27E.2.b

workers of the employer at one or more public places of business of the
employer.

2.27E.3

In this section—

      “ non-public place of business ” means a place of business that is not a
public place of business;           “ public place of business ” means a place
of business where interaction between—         customers of the employer, and
workers of the employer,         occurs wholly or mainly face-to-face.

### Independent troncs

3

After section  27E  of the Employment Rights Act 1996 insert—

####### Independent troncs

3.27F

3.27F.1

In this section “ relevant tips ” means the qualifying tips, gratuities and
service charges that—

3.27F.1.a

are paid at, or are otherwise attributable to, a place of business of an
employer, and

3.27F.1.b

are paid during a reference period.

3.27F.2

Where—

3.27F.2.a

the employer makes arrangements for the total amount of the relevant tips to
be allocated between workers of the employer at the place of business by an
independent tronc operator, and

3.27F.2.b

it is fair for the employer to make those arrangements,

the employer is to be treated as having ensured that the total amount of the
relevant tips is allocated fairly between workers of the employer at the place
of business in accordance with section  27D (1) .

3.27F.3

Where—

3.27F.3.a

the employer makes arrangements for a part of the total amount of the relevant
tips to be allocated between workers of the employer at the place of business
by an independent tronc operator, and

3.27F.3.b

it is fair for the employer to make those arrangements,

the employer is to be treated as having ensured that that part of the total
amount of the relevant tips is allocated fairly between workers of the
employer at the place of business in accordance with section  27D (1) .

3.27F.4

In determining whether it would be fair for an employer to make the
arrangements mentioned in subsection  (2)  or  (3) , regard must be had to the
relevant provisions of any code of practice issued under this Part.

3.27F.5

Section  27D (2)  does not apply to an amount which—

3.27F.5.a

by virtue of subsection  (2)  or  (3) , is treated as having been allocated
fairly between workers, and

3.27F.5.b

is payable to the worker by the independent tronc operator.

3.27F.6

For the purposes of this section “an independent tronc operator” is a person
who the employer reasonably considers to be operating, or intending to
operate, independently of the employer, arrangements under which—

3.27F.6.a

the total amount of qualifying tips, gratuities and service charges subject to
the arrangements is allocated between workers of the employer at the relevant
place of business by the person,

3.27F.6.b

such allocated qualifying tips, gratuities and service charges are payable to
such workers by the person or by the employer (or partly by the person and
partly by the employer),

3.27F.6.c

amounts payable to workers by the person in accordance with paragraph  (b)
are not subject to unauthorised deductions by the person, and

3.27F.6.d

all payments made to workers in accordance with paragraph  (b)  are payments
to which paragraph 5(1) of Part 10 of Schedule 3 to the Social Security
(Contributions) Regulations 2001 ( S.I. 2001/1004 ) (payments disregarded in
the calculation of earnings)—

3.27F.6.d.i

applies by virtue of the payments meeting the condition in paragraph 5(3) of
that Part, or

3.27F.6.d.ii

would apply by virtue of the payments meeting the condition in paragraph 5(3)
of that Part if the modifications in subsection  (7)  were made to paragraph 5
of that Part.

3.27F.7

The modifications are—

3.27F.7.a

each reference to a “secondary contributor” is to be read as a reference to an
“employer”;

3.27F.7.b

each reference to an “earner” is to be read as a reference to a “worker”.

3.27F.8

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

3.27F.8.a

amend the definition of “independent tronc operator” in this section in
consequence of the making of social security contributions regulations, and

3.27F.8.b

consequentially amend any other provision of this Part.

3.27F.9

In this section—

      “ reference period ” means a period of at least one day, as determined
by the employer from time to time;           “ social security contributions
regulations ” means any regulations making provision related to social
security contributions of employers or workers;           “ unauthorised
deduction ” means a deduction that is not required or authorised to be made by
virtue of a statutory provision.

### When tips etc must be dealt with

4

After section  27F  of the Employment Rights Act 1996 insert—

####### When tips etc must be dealt with

4.27G

The employer must—

4.27G.a

ensure that a qualifying tip, gratuity or service charge is allocated in
accordance with section  27D (1) , and

4.27G.b

make any payment that the employer is required to make to a worker under
section  27D (2)  as a result of that allocation,

no later than the end of the month following the month in which the tip,
gratuity or service charge was paid by the customer.

### Agency workers

5

After section  27G  of the Employment Rights Act 1996 insert—

####### Agency workers

5.27H

5.27H.1

In this Part an “eligible agency worker” is an individual—

5.27H.1.a

who is supplied by a person (the “agent”) to do work for another person (the
“principal”) under a contract or other arrangements made between the agent and
the principal, but

5.27H.1.b

who is not, as respects that work, a worker of the principal because of the
absence of a worker’s contract between the individual and the principal, and

5.27H.1.c

who is not a party to a contract under which the individual undertakes to do
the work for another party to the contract whose status is, by virtue of the
contract, that of a client or customer of any profession or business
undertaking carried on by the individual.

5.27H.2

Where an eligible agency worker does work for the principal at a place of
business of the principal, this Part applies as if—

5.27H.2.a

the eligible agency worker were a worker of the principal, and

5.27H.2.b

the principal were the employer of the eligible agency worker.

5.27H.3

Where an amount is payable to an eligible agency worker under section  27D (2)
—

5.27H.3.a

the amount may instead be paid to the agent (within the period specified in
section  27G );

5.27H.3.b

the employer must not make any unauthorised deductions from the amount
(whether or not the amount is paid to the agent under paragraph  (a) ).

5.27H.4

Where an amount is paid to the agent under subsection  (3) —

5.27H.4.a

the amount becomes payable to the eligible agency worker by the agent before
the end of the month after the month in which the agent is paid the amount
under subsection  (3) , and

5.27H.4.b

the agent must not make any unauthorised deductions from the amount.

5.27H.5

In this section “ unauthorised deduction ” means a deduction that is not
required or authorised to be made by virtue of a statutory provision.

5.27H.6

In this Part a reference to an eligible agency worker includes, where the
context requires, a reference to a former eligible agency worker.

### Information

6

After section  27H  of the Employment Rights Act 1996 insert—

####### Information

######## Written policy

6.27I

6.27I.1

Where qualifying tips, gratuities and service charges are paid at, or are
otherwise attributable to, a place of business of an employer on more than an
occasional and exceptional basis, the employer must have a written policy on
dealing with qualifying tips, gratuities and service charges for the place of
business.

6.27I.2

A written policy for a place of business must include the following
information—

6.27I.2.a

whether the employer requires or encourages customers to pay tips, gratuities
and service charges at the place of business;

6.27I.2.b

how the employer ensures that all qualifying tips, gratuities and service
charges paid at, or otherwise attributable to, the place of business are dealt
with in accordance with this Part, including how the employer allocates
qualifying tips, gratuities and service charges between workers at the place
of business.

6.27I.3

Where an employer is required by this section to have a written policy for a
place of business, the employer must make the written policy available to all
workers of the employer at the place of business.

6.27I.4

Subsection  (5)  applies in a case where—

6.27I.4.a

an employer is not required by this section to have a written policy for a
place of business, but

6.27I.4.b

the employer would be required by this section to have such a written policy
if worker-received tips paid at, or otherwise attributable to, the place of
business were qualifying tips, gratuities and service charges.

6.27I.5

In that case, the employer must make the following information available to
all workers of the employer at the place of business—

6.27I.5.a

the fact that the employer is not required by this section to have a written
policy for the place of business, and

6.27I.5.b

the reasons why the employer is not required by this section to have such a
written policy.

6.27I.6

Where—

6.27I.6.a

an employer makes a written policy available to workers at a place of business
under this section, and

6.27I.6.b

the employer subsequently amends that policy,

the employer must make the amended version of the policy available to all
workers of the employer at the place of business.

######## Records

6.27J

6.27J.1

Where qualifying tips, gratuities and service charges are paid at, or are
otherwise attributable to, a place of business of an employer on more than an
occasional and exceptional basis, the employer must—

6.27J.1.a

create a record of how every qualifying tip, gratuity and service charge paid
at, or otherwise attributable to, the place of business has been dealt with in
accordance with this Part, and

6.27J.1.b

maintain that record for a period of three years beginning with the date on
which the qualifying tip, gratuity or service charge was paid.

6.27J.2

The record required by subsection  (1)  must include—

6.27J.2.a

the amount of qualifying tips, gratuities and service charges paid at, or
otherwise attributable to, the place of business;

6.27J.2.b

the amount of those qualifying tips, gratuities and service charges—

6.27J.2.b.i

that the employer allocated to workers of the employer at the place of
business;

6.27J.2.b.ii

that the employer arranged to be allocated to workers of the employer at the
place of business by an independent tronc operator in accordance with section
27F .

6.27J.3

A worker of an employer may make a written request for the employer to provide
the following records for a period specified in the request in relation to a
place of business of the employer that the worker worked at—

6.27J.3.a

the amount of qualifying tips, gratuities and service charges paid at, or
otherwise attributable to, the place of business;

6.27J.3.b

the amount of those qualifying tips, gratuities and service charges—

6.27J.3.b.i

that the employer allocated to the worker;

6.27J.3.b.ii

that the employer arranged to be allocated to workers of the employer at the
place of business by an independent tronc operator in accordance with section
27F .

6.27J.4

Where—

6.27J.4.a

an employer receives a request from a worker under subsection  (3)  for
records in relation to a place of business of the employer, and

6.27J.4.b

the employer is required by this section to maintain those records,

the employer must, within the response period, provide the worker with the
requested records in respect of the period specified in the request or a
substantially similar period.

6.27J.5

Subsection  (6)  applies in a case where—

6.27J.5.a

an employer receives a request from a worker under subsection  (3)  for
records in relation to a place of business of the employer,

6.27J.5.b

the employer is not required by this section to maintain those records, but

6.27J.5.c

the employer would be required by this section to maintain those records if
worker-received tips paid at, or otherwise attributable to, the place of
business were qualifying tips, gratuities and service charges.

6.27J.6

In that case, the employer must, within the response period, notify the
worker—

6.27J.6.a

that the employer is not required by this section to maintain the requested
records, and

6.27J.6.b

of the reasons why the employer is not required by this section to maintain
those records.

6.27J.7

A worker may request records under this section in respect of a period only
if—

6.27J.7.a

the period is a period of one month or two or more consecutive months,

6.27J.7.b

the period begins no more than three years before the date of the request,

6.27J.7.c

the period ends before the date of the request, and

6.27J.7.d

the worker worked for the employer at any time during each month that forms
part of the request.

6.27J.8

A worker may not make more than one request for records under this section in
any three month period.

6.27J.9

Except as provided by subsection  (10) , a disclosure of information required
by subsection  (4)  does not breach—

6.27J.9.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

6.27J.9.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

6.27J.10

Subsection  (4)  does not require a disclosure of information that would
contravene the data protection legislation (but in determining whether a
disclosure would do so, the duty imposed by that subsection is to be taken
into account).

6.27J.11

In this section—

      “ the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018 (see section 3(9) of that Act);           “ date of the
request ” means the date that the request is received by the employer;
“ response period ” means the period of four weeks beginning with the date of
the request.

### Enforcement: dealing with tips etc

7

After section  27J  of the Employment Rights Act 1996 insert—

####### Enforcement

######## Complaints to employment tribunal about tips etc

7.27K

7.27K.1

A worker may present a complaint to an employment tribunal that the worker’s
employer has failed to comply with—

7.27K.1.a

section  27D  (how tips etc must be dealt with), or

7.27K.1.b

section  27G  (when tips etc must be dealt with),

in relation to the worker.

7.27K.2

An eligible agency worker may also present a complaint to an employment
tribunal that an agent has failed to comply with the requirement to make a
payment to the eligible agency worker that the agent was required to make
under section  27H (4) .

7.27K.3

An employment tribunal must not consider a complaint under this section unless
it is presented before the end of the period of twelve months beginning with
the date of the failure to comply.

7.27K.4

But, if the employment tribunal is satisfied that it was not reasonably
practicable for a complaint to be presented before the end of the relevant
period of twelve months, the tribunal may consider the complaint if it is
presented within such further period as the tribunal considers reasonable.

7.27K.5

If a complaint is presented under this section in respect of a series of
failures to comply, the reference in subsection  (3)  to the date of the
failure to comply is to the date of the last failure in the series.

7.27K.6

An eligible agency worker may present a complaint under subsection  (2)
whether or not the eligible agency worker also presents a complaint under
subsection  (1) .

7.27K.7

Section 207B (extension of time limits to facilitate conciliation before
institution of proceedings) applies for the purposes of subsection  (3) .

######## Determination of complaints about tips etc

7.27L

7.27L.1

If an employment tribunal finds a complaint under section  27K  well founded—

7.27L.1.a

it must make a declaration to that effect, and

7.27L.1.b

it may—

7.27L.1.b.i

in the case of a complaint under section  27K (1) , make an order requiring
the employer to deal with qualifying tips, gratuities and service charges that
were paid at, or were otherwise attributable to, a place of business of the
employer in accordance with this Part;

7.27L.1.b.ii

in the case of a complaint under section  27K (2) , make an order requiring
the agent to make a payment to the eligible agency worker of the amount that
the agent was required under section  27H  to pay to the eligible agency
worker.

7.27L.2

An order made under subsection  (1)(b)(i)  may in particular—

7.27L.2.a

require the employer to revise an allocation made by the employer under
section  27D ;

7.27L.2.b

make a recommendation to the employer regarding that allocation;

7.27L.2.c

require the employer to make a payment to one or more workers of the employer
in accordance with this Part (including a worker who is not the complainant).

7.27L.3

A recommendation made under subsection  (2)(b)  is not binding on an employer,
but is to be admissible in evidence in proceedings before an employment
tribunal; and any provision of the recommendation which appears to the
tribunal to be relevant to any question arising in the proceedings is to be
taken into account in determining that question.

7.27L.4

An order made under subsection  (1)(b)(i)  following a complaint presented by
a worker does not prevent a different worker from presenting a complaint under
this Part in relation to the same employer or the same qualifying tips,
gratuities and service charges.

######## Compensation: dealing with tips etc

7.27M

7.27M.1

If an employment tribunal makes a declaration under section  27L (1)(a) , it
may order the employer or agent (as the case may be) to pay to the complainant
such amount, not exceeding £5,000, as the tribunal considers appropriate in
all the circumstances to compensate the complainant for any financial loss
sustained by the complainant which is attributable to the matter complained
of.

7.27M.2

The tribunal may make an order under this section whether or not an order
under section  27L (1)(b)  has been made.

### Enforcement: information

8

After section  27M  of the Employment Rights Act 1996 insert—

####### Complaints to employment tribunal about information

8.27N

8.27N.1

A worker may present a complaint to an employment tribunal that the worker’s
employer has failed to comply with a requirement in section  27I  (written
policy) or  27J  (records).

8.27N.2

An employment tribunal must not consider a complaint under this section unless
it is presented before the end of the period of three months beginning with
the date of the failure to comply.

8.27N.3

But, if the employment tribunal is satisfied that it was not reasonably
practicable for a complaint to be presented before the end of the relevant
period of three months, the tribunal may consider the complaint if it is
presented within such further period as the tribunal considers reasonable.

8.27N.4

Section 207B (extension of time limits to facilitate conciliation before
institution of proceedings) applies for the purposes of subsection  (2) .

####### Determination of complaints about information

8.27O

8.27O.1

If an employment tribunal finds a complaint under section  27N  well founded—

8.27O.1.a

it must make a declaration to that effect, and

8.27O.1.b

it may make an order requiring the employer to comply with the requirement in
accordance with section  27I  or  27J .

8.27O.2

If an employment tribunal makes a declaration under subsection  (1)(a) , it
may order the employer to pay to the worker such amount, not exceeding £5,000,
as the tribunal considers appropriate in all the circumstances to compensate
the worker for any financial loss sustained by the worker which is
attributable to the matter complained of.

8.27O.3

The tribunal may make an order under subsection  (2)  whether or not an order
referred to in subsection  (1)(b)  has been made.

### Code of practice about tips etc

9

After section  27O  of the Employment Rights Act 1996 insert—

####### Code of practice about tips etc

######## Issue of code of practice

9.27P

9.27P.1

The Secretary of State may issue a code of practice under section  27Q  for
the purpose of promoting fairness and transparency in the distribution of
qualifying tips, gratuities and service charges.

9.27P.2

The Secretary of State may from time to time revise the whole or any part of a
code of practice and issue that revised code of practice under section  27Q .

######## Procedure for issue of code of practice

9.27Q

9.27Q.1

If the Secretary of State proposes to issue a code of practice under this
section the Secretary of State must—

9.27Q.1.a

consult ACAS;

9.27Q.1.b

publish a draft of the code of practice;

9.27Q.1.c

consider any representations made about the draft code of practice and modify
the draft code of practice accordingly.

9.27Q.2

If the Secretary of State decides to proceed with the draft code of practice,
the Secretary of State must—

9.27Q.2.a

lay it before both Houses of Parliament, and

9.27Q.2.b

if it is approved by resolution of each House, issue the code of practice in
the form of the draft.

9.27Q.3

A code of practice issued under this section comes into effect on such day as
the Secretary of State may by regulations appoint.

######## Consequential revision of code of practice

9.27R

9.27R.1

A code of practice issued under section  27Q  may be revised by the Secretary
of State in accordance with this section for the purpose of bringing it into
conformity with subsequent statutory provisions by the making of consequential
amendments and the omission of obsolete passages.

9.27R.2

In this section “ subsequent statutory provisions ” means provisions made by
or under an Act of Parliament and coming into force after the code of practice
was issued.

9.27R.3

If the Secretary of State proposes to revise a code of practice under this
section, the Secretary of State must lay a draft of the revised code of
practice before each House of Parliament.

9.27R.4

If within the period of 40 days beginning with the day on which the draft is
laid before Parliament, or, if copies are laid before the two Houses on
different days, with the later of the two days, either House so resolves, no
further proceedings are to be taken thereon, but without prejudice to the
laying before Parliament of a new draft.

9.27R.5

In reckoning the period of 40 days no account is to be taken of any period
during which Parliament is dissolved or prorogued or during which both Houses
are adjourned for more than four days.

9.27R.6

If no such resolution is passed, the Secretary of State must issue the code of
practice in the form of the draft and it comes into effect on such day as the
Secretary of State may by regulations appoint.

######## Revocation of code of practice

9.27S

A code of practice issued under this Part may be revoked by the Secretary of
State by regulations.

######## Failure to comply with code of practice

9.27T

9.27T.1

In proceedings before an employment tribunal, a code of practice issued under
this Part is to be admissible in evidence, and any provision of the code of
practice which appears to the tribunal to be relevant to any question arising
in the proceedings is to be taken into account in determining that question.

9.27T.2

A failure on the part of an employer to observe any provision of a code of
practice issued under this Part does not of itself render the employer liable
to any proceedings.

### General

10

After section  27T  of the Employment Rights Act 1996 insert—

####### General

######## No restitution claims by employer

10.27U

10.27U.1

This section applies where—

10.27U.1.a

a worker is allocated an amount of qualifying tips, gratuities and service
charges in accordance with section  27D (1)  (the “original allocation”),

10.27U.1.b

the employment tribunal makes an order under section  27L (1)(b)(i)  that has
the effect of requiring the employer to revise that allocation,

10.27U.1.c

the employer subsequently revises the amount of qualifying tips, gratuities
and service charges allocated to the worker (the “revised allocation”), and

10.27U.1.d

the amount of the revised allocation is less than the amount of the original
allocation.

10.27U.2

The difference between the amount of the revised allocation and the amount of
the original allocation is not payable by the worker to the employer (and
accordingly the employer may not bring proceedings in a court or tribunal to
recover from the worker or an agent (as the case may be) the difference
between such amounts based wholly or partly on the employment tribunal order).

10.27U.3

For the meaning of “agent”, see section  27H .

######## Relationship with contractual rights

10.27V

10.27V.1

An entitlement of a worker to be allocated qualifying tips, gratuities and
service charges under this Part does not affect any contractual right of the
worker to receive an amount representing qualifying tips, gratuities and
service charges under a contract of employment (“contractual tips”).

10.27V.2

But—

10.27V.2.a

any contractual tips paid to a worker by an employer of that worker in respect
of any period are to go towards discharging any liability of that employer to
allocate qualifying tips, gratuities and service charges to that worker in
respect of that period under this Part, and

10.27V.2.b

any qualifying tips, gratuities and service charges allocated by an employer
to a worker under this Part in respect of any period are to go towards
discharging any liability of that employer to pay contractual tips to that
worker in respect of that period.

######## Restrictions on contracting out of this Part

10.27W

10.27W.1

A prohibited reimbursement provision in an agreement between an employer and a
worker (whether in a contract of employment or not) is void.

10.27W.2

A provision in an agreement is a “reimbursement provision” if it purports—

10.27W.2.a

to require the worker to make a payment to the employer, or

10.27W.2.b

to reduce any part of the wages payable to the worker by the employer.

10.27W.3

A reimbursement provision is “prohibited” if there is a relationship between—

10.27W.3.a

the payment or reduction, or the amount of the payment or reduction, under the
reimbursement provision, and

10.27W.3.b

either—

10.27W.3.b.i

the worker being allocated qualifying tips, gratuities and service charges, or

10.27W.3.b.ii

the worker receiving worker-received tips that are not qualifying tips,
gratuities and service charges.

10.27W.4

The circumstances in which there is a relationship of the kind mentioned in
subsection  (3)  include circumstances where—

10.27W.4.a

the possibility of the worker being allocated qualifying tips, gratuities and
service charges,

10.27W.4.b

the amount of qualifying tips, gratuities and service charges to be allocated
to the worker,

10.27W.4.c

the possibility of the worker receiving worker-received tips that are not
qualifying tips, gratuities and service charges, or

10.27W.4.d

the amount of worker-received tips that are not qualifying tips, gratuities
and service charges to be received by the worker,

is wholly or partly dependent on the reimbursement provision having been
agreed.

10.27W.5

This section is without prejudice to section 203 (restrictions on contracting
out).

######## Interpretation

10.27X

10.27X.1

In this Part—

      “ customer ”, in relation to an employer, includes any person who is
provided with services by the employer;           “ place of business ”, in
relation to an employer, includes any location where the activities of the
employer’s business are carried out (whether on a permanent or temporary
basis).

10.27X.2

Where a qualifying tip, gratuity or service charge is—

10.27X.2.a

attributable to a place of business, but

10.27X.2.b

paid at a different place of business,

this Part applies to the qualifying tip, gratuity or service charge only in
relation to the place of business to which it is attributable.

10.27X.3

Where an employer-received tip or a worker-received tip is neither paid at,
nor otherwise attributable to, a place of business of the employer, this Part
applies as if—

10.27X.3.a

the tip were attributable to a place of business of the employer, and

10.27X.3.b

all workers of the employer were at that place of business (whether or not
those workers were also at any other place of business of the employer).

10.27X.4

Where subsection  (3)  applies in relation to two or more employer-received
tips or worker-received tips, all such tips are attributable (in accordance
with that subsection) to the same place of business of the employer.

10.27X.5

For the purposes of this Part an employer and a person are to be treated as
associated if—

10.27X.5.a

one is a company of which the other (directly or indirectly) has control, or

10.27X.5.b

both are companies of which a third person (directly or indirectly) has
control,

and “ associated person ” is to be construed accordingly.

######## Application

10.27Y

This Part applies in respect of tips, gratuities and service charges paid by
customers on or after the date on which section  27D  comes into force.

### Wages

11

In the Employment Rights Act 1996—

11.a

in section 13 (right not to suffer unauthorised deductions), after subsection
(7) insert—

11.a.8

In relation to deductions from amounts of qualifying tips, gratuities and
service charges allocated to workers under Part 2B, subsection (1) applies as
if—

11.a.8.a

in paragraph (a), the words “or a relevant provision of the worker’s contract”
were omitted, and

11.a.8.b

paragraph (b) were omitted.

;

11.b

in section 27 (meaning of “wages” etc), after subsection (1)(cd) insert—

11.b.ce

any amount of qualifying tips, gratuities and service charges allocated to the
worker under Part 2B of this Act,

.

### Other amendments to employment legislation

12

12.1

In Schedule A2 to the Trade Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act
1992 (tribunal jurisdictions), after the entry for “Section 23 of the
Employment Rights Act 1996” insert—

      Section  27K  of that Act (complaints about tips etc)           Section
27N  of that Act (complaints about information)

.

12.2

In the Employment Rights Act 1996—

12.2.a

in section 194 (House of Lords staff), after subsection (2)(a) insert—

12.2.a.aa

Part 2B,

;

12.2.b

in section 195 (House of Commons staff), after subsection (2)(a) insert—

12.2.b.aa

Part 2B,

;

12.2.c

in section 199 (mariners)—

12.2.c.i

in subsection (1), for “Part II”, substitute  “Parts 2 and 2B” ;

12.2.c.ii

in subsection (8)(b), after “Parts II,” insert  “2B,” ;

12.2.d

in section 235 (other definitions), in subsection (1), in the definition of
“week”, in paragraph (b), after “except in sections” insert  “ 27C ,” ;

12.2.e

in section 236 (orders and regulations)—

12.2.e.i

after subsection (2)(a) insert—

12.2.e.i.aa

regulations under section  27R ,

;

12.2.e.ii

in subsection (3), after “27B,” insert  “ 27F ,  27S ,” .

12.3

In the Employment Tribunals Act 1996—

12.3.a

in section 4 (composition of a tribunal), in subsection (3)(c), after “section
23,” insert  “ 27K ,  27N ,” ;

12.3.b

in section 18 (conciliation), in subsection (1)(b), after “23,” insert  “ 27K
,  27N ,” .

12.4

In section 34 of the Employment Relations Act 1999 (indexation of amounts), in
subsection (1)—

12.4.a

before paragraph (a) insert—

12.4.a.za

section  27M (1)  of the Employment Rights Act 1996 (complaints about tips
etc: compensation);

12.4.a.zb

section  27O (2)  of that Act (complaints about information: compensation);

;

12.4.b

in paragraph (a), for “the Employment Rights Act 1996”, substitute  “that Act”
.

### Extent

13

This Act extends to England and Wales and Scotland.

### Commencement

14

14.1

This section and sections 13 and 15 come into force on the day on which this
Act is passed.

14.2

The rest of this Act comes into force on such day as the Secretary of State
may by regulations appoint.

14.3

Different days may be appointed for different purposes.

14.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations make transitional or saving
provision in connection with the coming into force of any provision of this
Act.

14.5

The power to make regulations under subsection  (4)  includes power to make
different provision for different purposes.

14.6

Regulations under this section are to be made by statutory instrument.

### Short title

15

This Act may be cited as the Employment (Allocation of Tips) Act 2023.

