Title: Energy Act 2023
Date: 2024-10-03
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/52

## Energy Act 2023

      B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Licensing of carbon dioxide transport and storage

#### Licensing of activities

##### General functions

###### Principal objectives and general duties of Secretary of State and economic regulator

1

1.1

The principal objectives of the Secretary of State and the GEMA in carrying
out their respective functions under this Part are to—

1.1.a

protect the interests of current and future transport and storage network
users;

1.1.b

protect the interests of any consumers whose interests the Secretary of State
or the economic regulator (as the case may be) considers may be impacted by
the exercise of their respective functions under this Part;

1.1.c

promote the efficient and economic development and operation of transport and
storage networks, having regard to the need for licence holders to be able to
finance their licensable activities.

1.2

In this Part the GEMA is referred to as the “ economic regulator ”.

1.3

The Secretary of State and the economic regulator must carry out their
respective functions under this Part in the manner which the Secretary of
State or the economic regulator (as the case may be) considers is best
calculated to further the principal objectives, wherever appropriate by—

1.3.a

promoting effective competition between persons engaged in, or in commercial
activities connected with, the activities mentioned in  section 2 (2) ;

1.3.b

promoting the resilience of transport and storage networks;

1.3.c

protecting the public from dangers arising from the construction, operation
and decommissioning of infrastructure used for the purposes of activities
mentioned in  section 2 (2) .

1.4

In carrying out functions under this Part in accordance with the preceding
provisions of this section, the Secretary of State or the economic regulator
(as the case may be) must have regard to—

1.4.a

the principles under which regulatory activities should be transparent,
accountable, proportionate, consistent and targeted only at cases in which
action is needed, and any other principles appearing to the Secretary of State
or the economic regulator to represent the best regulatory practice;

1.4.b

the need to contribute to the achievement of sustainable development.

1.5

In carrying out functions under this Part in accordance with the preceding
provisions of this section the Secretary of State must have regard to the
Secretary of State’s duties under sections 1 and 4(1)(b) of the Climate Change
Act 2008 (carbon targets and budgets).

1.6

In carrying out functions under this Part in accordance with the preceding
provisions of this section, the economic regulator must have regard to—

1.6.a

the need to assist the Secretary of State’s compliance with the duties
mentioned in  subsection (5) ;

1.6.b

the targets specified in  subsection (8) .

1.7

In exercising their respective functions in relation to licensable activities,
the Secretary of State and the economic regulator may have regard to the
desirability of the efficient and effective operation of the energy system (or
any part of it) in the United Kingdom or any part of the United Kingdom.

1.8

The targets referred to in subsection  (6) (b)  are—

1.8.a

the net-zero emissions target, as defined in section A1(1) of the  Climate
Change (Scotland) Act 2009 (asp 12) ;

1.8.b

the interim targets, as defined in section 2 of that Act;

1.8.c

a target in, or set under, section 1 or 2 of the Climate Change Act (Northern
Ireland) 2022;

1.8.d

a target in, or set under, section 29 or 30 of the  Environment (Wales) Act
2016 (anaw 3) .

1.9

In this section—

      “ transport and storage network user ” means a person who is, or seeks
to be, a party to arrangements for carbon dioxide to be transported to a
relevant site for the purpose of disposal by way of geological storage;
“ transport and storage networks ” means infrastructure and facilities for—
the disposal of carbon dioxide by way of geological storage (or injection for
the purposes of geological storage) at a relevant site, or           the
transportation of carbon dioxide to a relevant site for the purpose of such
disposal;                 “ relevant site ” means a site that is—         in
the United Kingdom, or           in, under or over—         the territorial
sea adjacent to the United Kingdom, or           waters in a Gas Importation
and Storage Zone (within the meaning given by section 1 of the Energy Act
2008).

1.10

For the purposes of this Part activities are “licensable activities” if
undertaking them without the authority of a licence or exemption constitutes
an offence under  section 2 (1) .

##### Licensable activities

###### Prohibition on unlicensed activities

2

2.1

It is an offence for a person to carry on an activity within  subsection (2)
unless the person is authorised to do so by a licence.

2.2

The activities are—

2.2.a

operating a site for the disposal of carbon dioxide by way of geological
storage;

2.2.b

providing a service of transporting carbon dioxide by a licensable means of
transportation.

2.3

In this Part “ licensable means of transportation ” means—

2.3.a

a pipe or system of pipes, or

2.3.b

any other means of transportation that may be specified by regulations made by
the Secretary of State,

which falls within  subsection (4) .

2.4

A means of transportation falls within this subsection if it is used (with or
without other means of transportation) for transporting carbon dioxide all or
part of the way to a site for the geological storage of carbon dioxide.

2.5

A person who commits an offence under this section is liable—

2.5.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to a fine;

2.5.b

on summary conviction in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding
the statutory maximum;

2.5.c

on conviction on indictment, to a fine.

2.6

No proceedings may be instituted in England and Wales in respect of an offence
under this section except by or on behalf of the Secretary of State or the
economic regulator.

2.7

Regulations under  subsection (3) (b)  may make consequential, transitional,
incidental or supplementary provision including—

2.7.a

amendments (or repeals or revocations) in any provision of this Act or any
other enactment, and

2.7.b

provision modifying any standard conditions of licences or provision
determining the conditions which are to be standard conditions for the
purposes of licences authorising the undertaking of activities which are to
become licensable activities.

2.8

But regulations made by virtue of  subsection (7) (a)  may not make provision
amending (or repealing or revoking) any provision of—

2.8.a

an Act of the Scottish Parliament, or an instrument made under such an Act,
unless the Scottish Ministers have consented to the making of that provision;

2.8.b

a Measure or Act of Senedd Cymru, or an instrument made under such a Measure
or Act, unless the Welsh Ministers have consented to the making of that
provision;

2.8.c

Northern Ireland legislation, or an instrument made under Northern Ireland
legislation, unless the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland has
consented to the making of that provision.

2.9

Regulations under  subsection (3) (b)  are subject to the affirmative
procedure.

2.10

For the purposes of this Part the person who “operates” a site for the
geological storage of carbon dioxide is the person who carries on or (where
different) controls activities at the site.

###### Consultation on proposals for additional activities to become licensable

3

3.1

Before making regulations under  section 2 (3) (b) , the Secretary of State
must give notice—

3.1.a

stating that the Secretary of State proposes to make regulations providing for
the means of transportation in question to become a licensable means of
transportation, and

3.1.b

specifying a reasonable period (of not less than 28 days from the date of
publication of the notice) within which representations or objections may be
made with respect to the proposal,

and must consider any representations or objections duly made and not
withdrawn.

3.2

The notice must be given—

3.2.a

by sending a copy of the notice to the economic regulator, the appropriate
devolved authorities and any other body the Secretary of State considers
appropriate, and

3.2.b

by publishing it in such manner as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate for bringing it to the attention of persons likely to be affected
by such regulations.

3.3

For the purposes of this section the “appropriate devolved authorities” are—

3.3.a

the Welsh Ministers, if the regulations contain provision that would be within
the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it were contained in an Act of
the Senedd (ignoring any requirement for the consent of a Minister of the
Crown imposed under Schedule 7B to the Government of Wales Act 2006);

3.3.b

the Scottish Ministers, if the regulations contain provision that would be
within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if it were
contained in an Act of that Parliament;

3.3.c

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, if the regulations contain
provision that—

3.3.c.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
it were contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

3.3.c.ii

would not, if it were contained in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State under
section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998.

###### Territorial scope of prohibition

4

Section  2 (1)  applies to activities in, above or below—

4.a

the territorial sea adjacent to the United Kingdom, or

4.b

waters in a Gas Importation and Storage Zone (within the meaning given by
section 1 of the Energy Act 2008),

as it applies to activities in the United Kingdom.

###### Exemption from prohibition

5

5.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations grant exemption from the prohibition
under  section 2 (1) .

5.2

An exemption may be granted—

5.2.a

to a specified person, or persons of a specified class;

5.2.b

generally or to such extent as may be specified;

5.2.c

unconditionally or subject to such conditions as may be specified.

5.3

Before making regulations under  subsection (1)  the Secretary of State must
give notice—

5.3.a

stating that the Secretary of State proposes to make such regulations and
setting out the terms of the proposed regulations,

5.3.b

stating the reasons why the Secretary of State proposes to make the
regulations in the terms proposed, and

5.3.c

specifying the time (which must be not less than 28 days from the date of
publication of the notice) within which representations with respect to the
proposals may be made,

and must consider any representations which are duly made in respect of the
proposals and not withdrawn.

5.4

The notice required by  subsection (3)  must be given—

5.4.a

by serving a copy of it on the economic regulator and any appropriate devolved
authority, and

5.4.b

by publishing it in such manner as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate for bringing it to the attention of those likely to be affected by
the proposed regulations.

5.5

Notice of an exemption granted to a person is to be given—

5.5.a

by serving a copy of the exemption on the person, and

5.5.b

by publishing the exemption in such manner as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate for bringing it to the attention of other persons who may be
affected by it.

5.6

Notice of an exemption granted to persons of a class must be given by
publishing the exemption in such manner as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate for bringing it to the attention of—

5.6.a

persons of that class, and

5.6.b

other persons who may be affected by it.

5.7

An exemption may be granted—

5.7.a

indefinitely, or

5.7.b

for a period specified in, or determined by or under, the exemption.

5.8

Conditions subject to which an exemption is granted may (in particular)
require any person carrying on any activity in pursuance of the exemption—

5.8.a

to comply with any direction given by a relevant authority as to such matters
as are specified in the exemption or are of a description so specified,

5.8.b

to do (or not do) such things as are specified in the exemption or are of a
description so specified, except so far as the Secretary of State or a
relevant authority consents to the person’s not doing (or doing) them, and

5.8.c

to refer for determination by the Secretary of State or a relevant authority
such questions arising under the exemption as are specified in the exemption
or are of a description so specified.

5.9

For the purposes of this section the “appropriate devolved authorities” are—

5.9.a

the Scottish Ministers, if the regulations under  subsection (1)  contain
provision that would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish
Parliament if it were contained in an Act of that Parliament;

5.9.b

the Welsh Ministers, if those regulations contain provision that would be
within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it were contained in an
Act of the Senedd (ignoring any requirement for the consent of a Minister of
the Crown imposed under Schedule 7B to the Government of Wales Act 2006);

5.9.c

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, if those regulations
contain provision that—

5.9.c.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
it were contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

5.9.c.ii

would not, if it were contained in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State under
section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998.

5.10

In  subsection (8)  “ relevant authority ” means a person specified in the
conditions.

###### Revocation or withdrawal of exemption

6

6.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations revoke regulations by which an
exemption was granted to a person or vary regulations by which more than one
exemption was so granted so as to terminate any of the exemptions—

6.1.a

at the person’s request,

6.1.b

in accordance with any provision of the regulations by which the exemption was
granted, or

6.1.c

if it appears to the Secretary of State inappropriate that the exemption
should continue to have effect.

6.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations revoke regulations by which an
exemption was granted to persons of a class or vary regulations by which more
than one exemption was so granted so as to terminate any of the exemptions—

6.2.a

in accordance with any provision of the regulations by which the exemption was
granted, or

6.2.b

if it appears to the Secretary of State inappropriate that the exemption
should continue to have effect.

6.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations withdraw an exemption granted to
persons of a class from any person of that class—

6.3.a

at the person’s request,

6.3.b

in accordance with any provision of the regulations by which the exemption was
granted, or

6.3.c

if it appears to the Secretary of State inappropriate that the exemption
should continue to have effect in the case of the person.

6.4

Before making regulations under  subsection (1) (b)  or (c),  (2)  or  (3) (b)
or (c), the Secretary of State must—

6.4.a

give notice of the proposal to do so (with reasons) and of a period within
which representations may be made to the Secretary of State, and

6.4.b

consider any representations which are duly made and not withdrawn.

6.5

The notice under  subsection (4)  must be given—

6.5.a

to the economic regulator and any appropriate devolved authority,

6.5.b

where the Secretary of State is proposing to make regulations under
subsection (1) (b)  or (c), by serving a copy of it on the person to whom the
exemption was granted,

6.5.c

where the Secretary of State is proposing to make regulations under subsection
(2) , by publishing it in such manner as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate for bringing it to the attention of persons of the class of
persons to whom the exemption was granted, and

6.5.d

where the Secretary of State is proposing to make regulations under
subsection (3) (b)  or (c), by serving a copy of it on the person from whom
the Secretary of State proposes to withdraw the exemption.

6.6

For the purposes of  subsection (5)  the “appropriate devolved authorities”
are—

6.6.a

the Scottish Ministers, if the regulations to which the notice relates contain
provision that would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish
Parliament if it were contained in an Act of that Parliament;

6.6.b

the Welsh Ministers, if those regulations contain provision that would be
within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it were contained in an
Act of the Senedd (ignoring any requirement for the consent of a Minister of
the Crown imposed under Schedule 7B to the Government of Wales Act 2006);

6.6.c

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, if those regulations
contain provision that—

6.6.c.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
it were contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

6.6.c.ii

would not, if it were contained in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State under
section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998.

6.7

Regulations under this section and  section 5  are subject to the negative
procedure.

##### Grant and conditions of licences

###### Power to grant licences

7

7.1

The economic regulator may grant a licence authorising a person to carry on—

7.1.a

activities falling within  section 2 (2) (a) ;

7.1.b

activities falling within  section 2 (2) (b) .

7.2

A licence—

7.2.a

must be in writing;

7.2.b

is to continue in force for such period as may be specified in or determined
by or under the licence, unless previously revoked in accordance with any term
of the licence.

###### Power to create licence types

8

8.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that different types of
licence may be granted under  section 7 (1)  in respect of different
descriptions of activity falling within  section 2 (2) .

8.2

Regulations under this section may make consequential, transitional,
incidental or supplementary provision including—

8.2.a

amendments (or repeals or revocations) in any provision of this Act or any
other enactment, and

8.2.b

provision modifying any standard conditions of licences or provision
determining the conditions which are to be standard conditions for the
purposes of new types of licences.

8.3

Before making regulations under this section containing provision within
devolved competence, the Secretary of State must give notice to each relevant
devolved authority—

8.3.a

stating that the Secretary of State proposes to make regulations under this
section, and

8.3.b

specifying the period (of not less than 28 days from the date on which the
notice is given) within which representations may be made with respect to the
provision within the relevant devolved competence,

and must consider any representations duly made and not withdrawn.

8.4

For the purposes of this section “ relevant devolved authority ” means—

8.4.a

the Scottish Ministers, if the regulations contain provision within Scottish
devolved competence;

8.4.b

the Welsh Ministers, if the regulations contain provision within Welsh
devolved competence;

8.4.c

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, if the regulations contain
provision within Northern Ireland devolved competence;

and “ the relevant devolved competence ”, in relation to a relevant devolved
authority, is to be construed accordingly.

8.5

For the purposes of this section, provision—

8.5.a

is within Scottish devolved competence if it would be within the legislative
competence of the Scottish Parliament if it were contained in an Act of that
Parliament;

8.5.b

is within Welsh devolved competence if it would be within the legislative
competence of Senedd Cymru if it were contained in an Act of the Senedd
(ignoring any requirement for the consent of a Minister of the Crown imposed
under Schedule 7B to the Government of Wales Act 2006);

8.5.c

is within Northern Ireland devolved competence if it—

8.5.c.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
it were contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

8.5.c.ii

would not, if it were contained in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State under
section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998;

and references to provision being within devolved competence are to provision
that is within Scottish, Welsh or Northern Ireland devolved competence.

8.6

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

###### Procedure for licence applications

9

9.1

The Secretary of State, or the economic regulator with the approval of the
Secretary of State, may by regulations—

9.1.a

make provision about the form and manner in which an application for a licence
must be made;

9.1.b

authorise the grantor to require that an application is accompanied by a fee
for processing the application of an amount determined in accordance with the
regulations.

9.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the procedure
for applications for a licence (in addition to any provision that may be made
under  subsection (1) ) including, for example, provision—

9.2.a

requiring that a decision to refuse a licence must be accompanied by reasons
for the decision;

9.2.b

imposing requirements with regard to the publication of decisions to refuse a
licence.

9.3

Before making regulations under  subsection (2)  or  (7)  the Secretary of
State must—

9.3.a

consult the economic regulator and the appropriate devolved authorities, and

9.3.b

specify a period of not less than 28 days within which representations or
objections with respect to the proposed regulations may be made,

and the Secretary of State must consider any representations or objections
which are duly made and not withdrawn.

9.4

Before granting a licence the economic regulator must give notice—

9.4.a

stating that the economic regulator proposes to grant the licence,

9.4.b

stating the reasons why the economic regulator proposes to grant the licence,
and

9.4.c

specifying the time (which must not be less than 28 days from the date of
publication of the notice) within which representations or objections with
respect to the proposed licence may be made,

and must consider any representations or objections which are duly made and
not withdrawn.

9.5

A notice under  subsection (4)  must be given by—

9.5.a

publishing the notice in such manner as the economic regulator considers
appropriate for bringing it to the attention of persons likely to be affected
by the grant of the licence, and

9.5.b

sending a copy of the notice to—

9.5.b.i

the Scottish Ministers, if an activity that would be authorised by the
proposed licence is within Scottish devolved competence;

9.5.b.ii

the Welsh Ministers, if an activity that would be authorised by the licence is
within Welsh devolved competence;

9.5.b.iii

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, if an activity that would
be authorised by the licence is within Northern Ireland devolved competence.

9.6

Section  17 (4)  (activities authorised by a licence: devolved competence)
applies for the purposes of  subsection (5) (b)  of this section as it applies
for the purposes of  section 17 .

9.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision, in relation to
licences, about the matters to be taken into account in determining whether an
applicant for a licence should be granted the licence.

9.8

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

9.9

Consultation before the passing of this Act is as effective for the purposes
of subsections  (3)  and  (4)  as consultation after that time.

9.10

In this Part “ grantor ”, in relation to a licence or an application for a
licence, means the person who grants or, as the case may be, has power to
grant, the licence.

9.11

For the purposes of this section “ appropriate devolved authority ”, in
relation to regulations, means—

9.11.a

the Scottish Ministers, if the regulations contain provision within Scottish
devolved competence;

9.11.b

the Welsh Ministers, if the regulations contain provision within Welsh
devolved competence;

9.11.c

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, if the regulations contain
provision within Northern Ireland devolved competence.

9.12

For the purposes of this section, provision—

9.12.a

is within Scottish devolved competence if it would be within the legislative
competence of the Scottish Parliament if it were contained in an Act of that
Parliament;

9.12.b

is within Welsh devolved competence if it would be within the legislative
competence of Senedd Cymru if it were contained in an Act of the Senedd
(ignoring any requirement for the consent of a Minister of the Crown imposed
under Schedule 7B to the Government of Wales Act 2006);

9.12.c

is within Northern Ireland devolved competence if it—

9.12.c.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
it were contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

9.12.c.ii

would not, if it were contained in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State under
section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998.

9.13

The Statutory Instruments Act 1946 applies in relation to the power of the
economic regulator to make regulations under  subsection (1)  as if the
economic regulator were a Minister of the Crown.

9.14

Any sums received by the economic regulator or the Secretary of State by
virtue of this section must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

###### Competitive tenders for licences

10

10.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make such provision as the Secretary
of State considers appropriate for facilitating the making, in prescribed
cases, of a determination on a competitive basis of the person to whom a
licence is to be granted.

10.2

That provision may include—

10.2.a

provision, in prescribed cases, for the publication of a proposal to grant a
licence;

10.2.b

provision for the inclusion in such a proposal of an invitation to apply for a
licence;

10.2.c

provision restricting the making of applications for a licence and imposing
requirements as to the period within which they must be made;

10.2.d

provision for regulating the manner in which applications are considered and
determined;

10.2.e

provision authorising the Secretary of State to direct, in relation to a
particular competition, that specified functions which would, apart from the
direction, be exercisable by the economic regulator are, so far as they relate
to that competition, to be exercised instead by a specified person.

10.3

Before making regulations under  subsection (1)  the Secretary of State must
give notice to the economic regulator and the appropriate devolved
authorities—

10.3.a

stating that the Secretary of State proposes to make regulations under this
section, and

10.3.b

specifying the period (of not less than 28 days from the date on which the
notice is given) within which representations must be made with respect to the
proposed provisions,

and must consider any representations duly made and not withdrawn.

10.4

Regulations under  subsection (1) —

10.4.a

may make provision by reference to a determination by the economic regulator
or to the opinion of the economic regulator as to any matter;

10.4.b

may dispense with or supplement provision made in relation to applications for
licences under  section 9 .

10.5

Regulations under  subsection (1)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

10.6

For the purposes of  subsection (3)  the “appropriate devolved authorities”
are—

10.6.a

the Scottish Ministers, if the regulations contain provision that would be
within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if it were
contained in an Act of that Parliament;

10.6.b

the Welsh Ministers, if the regulations contain provision that would be within
the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it were contained in an Act of
the Senedd (ignoring any requirement for the consent of a Minister of the
Crown imposed under Schedule 7B to the Government of Wales Act 2006);

10.6.c

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, if the regulations contain
provision that—

10.6.c.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
it were contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

10.6.c.ii

would not, if it were contained in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State under
section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998.

10.7

In this section—

      “ competition ” means a determination such as is mentioned in
subsection (1) ;           “ prescribed ” means prescribed in, or determined
under, regulations under  subsection (1) ;           “ specified ”, in
relation to a direction under  subsection (2) (e) , means specified in the
direction.

###### Conditions of licences: general

11

11.1

A licence may include—

11.1.a

such conditions (whether or not relating to the activities authorised by the
licence) as appear to the grantor to be requisite or expedient having regard
to the duties imposed by  section 1  (principal objectives of Secretary of
State and economic regulator), and

11.1.b

conditions requiring the making to the economic regulator of a payment on the
grant of the licence, or payments during the currency of the licence, or both,
of such amount or amounts as may be determined by or under the licence.

11.2

Without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (a) of  subsection (1) ,
conditions included in a licence by virtue of that paragraph may require the
licence holder—

11.2.a

to comply with any direction given by the economic regulator or the Secretary
of State as to such matters as are specified in the licence or are of a
description so specified,

11.2.b

to consent to the disclosure of information provided in accordance with a
direction given to the licence holder,

11.2.c

except in so far as the economic regulator or Secretary of State consents to
the licence holder’s doing (or not doing) them, not to do (or to do) such
things as are specified in the licence or are of a description so specified,

11.2.d

to refer for determination by the economic regulator or Secretary of State
such questions arising under the licence, or under any document referred to in
the licence, as are specified in the licence or are of a description so
specified, and

11.2.e

to refer for approval by the economic regulator or the Secretary of State such
things as are (or may be) required to be done under the licence, and such
contracts or agreements made before the grant of the licence, as are specified
in the licence or are of a description so specified.

11.3

Without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (a) of  subsection (1) ,
conditions in a licence may also include—

11.3.a

provision about the revenue that the licence holder may receive in respect of
its activities (the licence holder’s “allowed revenue”);

11.3.b

provision about how the licence holder’s allowed revenue is to be calculated.

11.4

In  subsection (3)  the reference to revenue that the licence holder may
receive in respect of its activities includes revenue that is calculated by
reference to estimates of the licence holder’s decommissioning costs, as
defined in  section 92  (financing of costs of decommissioning etc).

11.5

Without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (a) of  subsection (1) ,
conditions which are described in  subsection (6)  may be included in a
licence by virtue of that paragraph, in respect of circumstances where a
person (“the licence holder”) holds such a licence, and another person (“the
candidate”)—

11.5.a

has applied or is considering whether to apply for a licence, or

11.5.b

is considering whether to apply for financial support for carbon capture
activities.

11.6

The conditions in this subsection are conditions which require the licence
holder to comply with a direction given by the economic regulator or the
Secretary of State requiring the licence holder to provide to the candidate—

11.6.a

information in relation to the activities authorised by the licence, and

11.6.b

any other assistance the candidate may reasonably require, for the purpose of
determining whether to—

11.6.b.i

apply for a licence, or

11.6.b.ii

(as the case may be) apply for financial support for carbon capture
activities.

11.7

Conditions included in a licence may contain provision for the conditions—

11.7.a

to have effect or cease to have effect at such times and in such circumstances
as may be determined by or under the conditions, or

11.7.b

to be modified in such manner as may be specified in the conditions at such
times and in such circumstances as may be so determined.

11.8

Any provision included by virtue of  subsection (7)  in a licence is to have
effect in addition to the provision made by this Part with respect to the
modification of the conditions of a licence.

11.9

Conditions included in a licence may provide for references in the conditions
to any document to operate as references to that document as revised or re-
issued from time to time.

11.10

Any sums received by the economic regulator in consequence of the provisions
of any condition of a licence must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

###### Standard conditions of licences

12

12.1

The Secretary of State may determine the conditions that are to be the
standard conditions of licences.

12.2

The Secretary of State must publish any standard conditions determined under
subsection (1)  in whatever manner the Secretary of State considers
appropriate.

12.3

Subject to subsections  (4)  and  (5) , each condition which is a standard
condition is to be incorporated by reference in each licence.

12.4

Subsection  (3)  does not apply to a licence granted before the publication of
the standard condition.

12.5

Subject to the following provisions of this section, the grantor of a licence
in which standard conditions would, but for this subsection, be incorporated
in accordance with  subsection (3)  may exclude or modify any of those
standard conditions, to such extent as the grantor may consider requisite to
meet the circumstances of a particular case.

12.6

Before excluding any standard conditions or making any modifications under
subsection (5) , the grantor must give notice—

12.6.a

stating that the grantor proposes to exclude the conditions or make the
modifications and setting out the effect of so doing,

12.6.b

stating the reasons why the grantor proposes to exclude the conditions or make
the modifications, and

12.6.c

specifying the time (which must not be less than 28 days from the date of
publication of the notice) within which representations or objections with
respect to the proposed exclusions or modifications may be made,

and must consider any representations or objections which are duly made and
not withdrawn.

12.7

A notice under  subsection (6)  must be given—

12.7.a

by publishing the notice in whatever manner the grantor considers appropriate
for the purpose of bringing the notice to the attention of persons likely to
be affected by the making of the exclusions or modifications, and

12.7.b

by sending a copy of the notice to the appropriate devolved authorities (if
any) and the Secretary of State.

12.8

The grantor must not exclude any conditions, or make any modifications, under
subsection (5)  unless the grantor is of the opinion that the exclusions or
modifications are such that—

12.8.a

the licence holder would not be unduly disadvantaged in competing with other
holders of licences, and

12.8.b

no other holder of a licence would be unduly disadvantaged in competing with
other holders of such licences (including the holder of the licence).

12.9

If, within the time specified in the notice under  subsection (6) , the
Secretary of State (after consulting the appropriate devolved authorities (if
any)) directs the grantor not to exclude or modify any standard condition, the
grantor must comply with the direction.

12.10

The modification under  subsection (5)  of part of a standard condition does
not prevent any other part of the condition from continuing to be treated as a
standard condition for the purposes of this Part.

12.11

Where, in granting a licence, the grantor excludes or modifies any standard
conditions under  subsection (5) , the grantor must publish a notice setting
out—

12.11.a

each exclusion or modification,

12.11.b

their effects, and the reason for adopting them, and

12.11.c

how the grantor has taken account of any representations or objections made in
accordance with  subsection (6) .

12.12

For the purposes of this section the “appropriate devolved authorities” are—

12.12.a

the Welsh Ministers, if provision making the exclusions and modifications
proposed in the notice under  subsection (6)  would be within the legislative
competence of Senedd Cymru if it were contained in an Act of the Senedd
(ignoring any requirement for the consent of a Minister of the Crown imposed
under Schedule 7B to the Government of Wales Act 2006);

12.12.b

the Scottish Ministers, if provision making the exclusions and modifications
proposed in that notice would be within the legislative competence of the
Scottish Parliament if it were contained in an Act of that Parliament;

12.12.c

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, if provision making the
exclusions and modifications proposed in that notice—

12.12.c.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
it were contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

12.12.c.ii

would not, if it were contained in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State under
section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998.

###### Modification of conditions of licences

13

13.1

The economic regulator may make modifications of—

13.1.a

the conditions of a particular licence;

13.1.b

the standard conditions of licences.

13.2

Before making any modifications under this section, the economic regulator
must give notice—

13.2.a

stating that it proposes to make modifications,

13.2.b

setting out the proposed modifications and their effect,

13.2.c

stating the reasons why it proposes to make the modifications, and

13.2.d

specifying the time within which representations with respect to the proposed
modifications may be made.

13.3

The time specified by virtue of  subsection (2) (d)  may not be less than 28
days from the date of the publication of the notice.

13.4

A notice under  subsection (2)  must be given—

13.4.a

by publishing the notice in such manner as the economic regulator considers
appropriate for the purpose of bringing the notice to the attention of persons
likely to be affected by the making of the modifications, and

13.4.b

by sending a copy of the notice to—

13.4.b.i

each relevant licence holder,

13.4.b.ii

the Secretary of State, and

13.4.b.iii

the appropriate devolved authorities (if any).

13.5

The economic regulator must consider any representations which are duly made.

13.6

If, within the time specified by virtue of  subsection (2) (d) , the Secretary
of State directs the economic regulator not to make any modification, the
economic regulator must comply with the direction.

13.7

Subsections  (8)  to  (10)  apply where, having complied with subsections  (2)
to  (5) , the economic regulator decides to proceed with the making of
modifications of the conditions of any licence under this section.

13.8

The economic regulator must—

13.8.a

publish the decision and the modifications in such manner as it considers
appropriate for the purpose of bringing them to the attention of persons
likely to be affected by the making of the modifications,

13.8.b

state the effect of the modifications,

13.8.c

state how it has taken account of any representations duly made, and

13.8.d

state the reason for any differences between the modifications and those set
out in the notice by virtue of  subsection (2) (b) .

13.9

Each modification has effect from the date specified by the economic regulator
in relation to that modification (subject to the giving of a direction under
paragraph 2  of  Schedule 2 ).

13.10

The date specified by virtue of  subsection (9)  may not be less than 56 days
from the publication of the decision to proceed with the making of
modifications under this section.

13.11

In this section “relevant licence holder”—

13.11.a

in relation to the modification of standard conditions, means the holder of a
licence—

13.11.a.i

which is to be modified by the inclusion of any new standard condition, or

13.11.a.ii

which includes any standard conditions to which the modifications relate which
are in effect at the time specified by virtue of  subsection (2) (d) , or

13.11.b

in relation to the modification of a condition of a particular licence (other
than a standard condition), means the holder of that particular licence.

13.12

For the purposes of this section the “appropriate devolved authorities” are—

13.12.a

the Welsh Ministers, if provision making the modifications proposed in the
notice under  subsection (2)  would be within the legislative competence of
Senedd Cymru if it were contained in an Act of the Senedd (ignoring any
requirement for the consent of a Minister of the Crown imposed under Schedule
7B to the Government of Wales Act 2006);

13.12.b

the Scottish Ministers, if provision making the modifications proposed in that
notice would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament
if it were contained in an Act of that Parliament;

13.12.c

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, if provision making the
modifications proposed in that notice—

13.12.c.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
it were contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

13.12.c.ii

would not, if it were contained in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State under
section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998.

###### Modification of conditions under 

14

14.1

Subsections (2) and (3) apply where at any time the economic regulator
modifies the conditions of licences under  section 13 .

14.2

If the conditions modified are standard conditions, the economic regulator
must—

14.2.a

also make (as nearly as possible) the same modifications of those conditions
for the purposes of their incorporation in licences granted after that time,
and

14.2.b

publish the modifications in such manner as it considers appropriate for the
purpose of bringing them to the attention of persons likely to be affected by
the making of the modifications.

14.3

The economic regulator may make such incidental or consequential modifications
of any conditions of licences as it considers necessary or expedient.

14.4

The modification of part of a standard condition of a particular licence under
section 13  does not prevent any other part of the condition from continuing
to be regarded as a standard condition for the purposes of this Part.

14.5

The modification of a condition of a licence under this section has effect
subject to the giving of a direction under  paragraph 2  of  Schedule 2  in
relation to the decision to which the modification relates.

###### Modification by order under other enactments

15

15.1

Where the CMA or (as the case may be) the Secretary of State (in this section
“the relevant authority”) makes a relevant order, the order may also provide
for the modification of—

15.1.a

the conditions of a particular licence, or

15.1.b

the standard conditions of licences,

to such extent as may appear to the relevant authority to be necessary or
expedient for the purpose of giving effect to, or taking account of, any
provision made by the order.

15.2

In  subsection (1)  “ relevant order ” means—

15.2.a

an order under section 75, 83 or 84 of, or paragraph 5, 10 or 11 of Schedule 7
to, the Enterprise Act 2002 where—

15.2.a.i

one or more than one of the enterprises which have, or may have, ceased to be
distinct enterprises was engaged in the carrying on of activities authorised
or regulated by a licence, or

15.2.a.ii

one or more than one of the enterprises which will or may cease to be distinct
enterprises is engaged in the carrying on of activities authorised or
regulated by a licence, or

15.2.b

an order under section 160 or 161 of that Act where the feature, or
combination of features, of the market or markets in the United Kingdom for
goods or services which prevents, restricts or distorts competition relates to
activities authorised or regulated by a licence.

15.3

The modification under  subsection (1) (a)  of part of a standard condition of
a particular licence does not prevent any other part of the condition from
continuing to be regarded as a standard condition for the purposes of this
Part.

15.4

Where at any time the relevant authority modifies under  subsection (1) (b)
the standard conditions of licences, the relevant authority—

15.4.a

must also make (as nearly as possible) the same modifications of those
conditions for the purposes of their incorporation in licences granted after
that time, and

15.4.b

may, after consultation with the economic regulator, make such incidental or
consequential modifications as the relevant authority considers necessary or
expedient of any conditions of licences under that provision granted before
that time.

15.5

Where at any time the relevant authority modifies standard conditions under
subsection (4) (a)  for the purposes of their incorporation in licences
granted after that time, the relevant authority must publish those
modifications in such manner as the relevant authority considers appropriate.

15.6

Expressions used in  subsection (2)  and in Part 3 or (as the case may be)
Part 4 of the Enterprise Act 2002 have the same meanings in that subsection as
in that Part.

##### Interim power of Secretary of State to grant licences

###### Interim power of Secretary of State to grant licences

16

Schedule 1  makes provision about the power of the Secretary of State to grant
licences during an interim period.

##### Termination of licence

###### Termination of licence

17

17.1

If the economic regulator considers that a termination event has arisen, or is
likely to arise, the economic regulator must notify the persons mentioned in
subsection (2)  as soon as reasonably practicable.

17.2

Those persons are—

17.2.a

the Secretary of State;

17.2.b

the Scottish Ministers, if an activity authorised by the licence is within
Scottish devolved competence;

17.2.c

the Welsh Ministers, if an activity authorised by the licence is within Welsh
devolved competence;

17.2.d

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, if an activity authorised
by the licence is within Northern Ireland devolved competence;

17.2.e

the Oil and Gas Authority;

17.2.f

any affected persons not falling within paragraphs  (a)  to  (e)  that the
economic regulator considers appropriate.

17.3

A notice under  subsection (1)  must specify—

17.3.a

in a case where a termination event has arisen, the date on which the economic
regulator proposes to revoke the licence, and

17.3.b

in any case, the date by which any representations must be made.

17.4

For the purposes of this section an activity authorised by a licence—

17.4.a

is within Scottish devolved competence if provision about that activity would
be within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if it were
contained in an Act of that Parliament;

17.4.b

is within Welsh devolved competence if provision about that activity would be
within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it were contained in an
Act of the Senedd (ignoring any requirement for the consent of a Minister of
the Crown imposed under Schedule 7B to the Government of Wales Act 2006);

17.4.c

is within Northern Ireland devolved competence if provision about that
activity—

17.4.c.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
it were contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

17.4.c.ii

would not, if it were contained in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State under
section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998.

17.5

In this section—

      “ affected person ” means a person that the economic regulator considers
may be affected by the decision as to whether the licence should be
terminated;           “ termination event ” means a state of affairs in which
the economic regulator is authorised to revoke the licence.

##### Transfer of licences

###### Transfer of licences

18

18.1

A licence—

18.1.a

is to be capable of being transferred by the licence holder, with the consent
of the economic regulator, in accordance with this section and subject to any
term of the licence relating to its transfer;

18.1.b

may include conditions which must be complied with before the licence can be
transferred.

18.2

A transfer may relate to the whole or any part of the licence.

18.3

The reference in  subsection (2)  to part of a licence is a reference to a
part of the activities authorised by the licence (whether described by
reference to activities being carried on by the licence holder or to
activities which the licence holder is authorised to carry on).

18.4

Such consent may be given subject to compliance with such modification
conditions or other conditions as the economic regulator considers necessary
or expedient.

18.5

In the case of a partial transfer, conditions imposed under  subsection (4)
may make, as respects so much of the licence as is proposed to be retained by
the transferor, provision different from that made as respects so much of the
licence as is proposed to be transferred.

18.6

Conditions imposed under  subsection (4)  may in particular require—

18.6.a

the transfer of rights, liabilities or property to the transferee;

18.6.b

the creation of rights in relation to property, rights or liabilities in
favour of the transferee;

18.6.c

the creation of other rights and liabilities as between the transferor and
transferee.

18.7

A purported transfer of a licence is to be void—

18.7.a

if the licence is not capable of transfer or the economic regulator has not
given its consent under  section 19 ,

18.7.b

if the purported transfer is in breach of a condition of the licence, or

18.7.c

if there has, before the purported transfer, been a contravention of a
condition subject to compliance with which the economic regulator’s consent is
given.

18.8

In this section—

      “ modification condition ” means a condition requiring, or otherwise
providing for the making of, modifications to the conditions of a licence;
“ transfer ” includes any form of transfer or assignment or, in Scotland,
assignation.

###### Consenting to transfer

19

19.1

Before giving consent to the transfer of a licence under  section 18 (1) , the
economic regulator must—

19.1.a

publish a notice stating that it proposes to grant consent to the transfer,

19.1.b

send a copy of the notice to—

19.1.b.i

the Scottish Ministers, if an activity authorised by the licence is within
Scottish devolved competence,

19.1.b.ii

the Welsh Ministers, if an activity authorised by the licence is within Welsh
devolved competence,

19.1.b.iii

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, if an activity authorised
by the licence is within Northern Ireland devolved competence,

19.1.b.iv

the Oil and Gas Authority, and

19.1.b.v

such other persons as the economic regulator considers are likely to be
affected by the decision, and

19.1.c

consider any representations or objections that are duly made and not
withdrawn.

19.2

Section  17 (4)  (activities authorised by a licence: devolved competence)
applies for the purposes of  subsection (1) (b)  of this section as it applies
for the purposes of  section 17 .

19.3

A notice under  subsection (1)  must—

19.3.a

state the reasons why the economic regulator proposes to give consent;

19.3.b

specify any conditions the economic regulator proposes to impose under
section 18 (4) ;

19.3.c

specify the time from the date of publication of the notice (which must not be
less than two months) within which representations or objections with respect
to the proposed transfer may be made,

and must be published in such manner as the economic regulator considers
appropriate for bringing it to the attention of persons likely to be affected
by the transfer.

19.4

Subject to  subsection (6) , the economic regulator must, following
consideration of any representations or objections under  subsection (3) ,
give the Secretary of State not less than 28 days’ notice of—

19.4.a

any proposal to give consent to the transfer, and

19.4.b

any conditions the economic regulator proposes to impose under  section 18 (4)
.

19.5

If, before the expiry of the time specified in a notice under  subsection (4)
, the Secretary of State gives the economic regulator a direction not to
consent to the transfer, the economic regulator must comply with that
direction.

19.6

Where the Secretary of State gives no direction under  subsection (5) , the
economic regulator may give consent to the transfer of the licence after—

19.6.a

the expiry of the time specified in the notice under  subsection (4) , or

19.6.b

if earlier than the time in  paragraph (a) , the time at which the Secretary
of State informs the economic regulator that in relation to the notice no
direction will be given under  subsection (5) .

##### Appeal from decisions of the economic regulator

###### Appeal to the CMA

20

20.1

An appeal may be made to the CMA against a decision by the economic regulator
to proceed with the modification of a condition of a licence under  section 13
.

20.2

An appeal may be brought under this section only by—

20.2.a

a relevant licence holder (within the meaning of  section 13 );

20.2.b

a transport and storage network user whose interests are materially affected
by the decision;

20.2.c

a qualifying body or association in the capacity of representing a person
falling within paragraph (a) or (b);

20.3

The permission of the CMA is required for the bringing of an appeal under this
section.

20.4

The CMA may refuse permission to bring an appeal only on one of the following
grounds—

20.4.a

in relation to an appeal brought by a person falling within  subsection (2)
(b) , that the interests of the person are not materially affected by the
decision;

20.4.b

in relation to an appeal brought by a qualifying body or association, that the
interests of the person represented are not materially affected by the
decision;

20.4.c

in relation to any appeal—

20.4.c.i

that the appeal is brought for reasons that are trivial or vexatious;

20.4.c.ii

that the appeal has no reasonable prospect of success.

20.5

References in this section to a “qualifying body or association” are to a body
or association whose functions are or include representing persons in respect
of interests of theirs which are materially affected by the decision in
question.

20.6

In this section “ transport and storage network user ” has the same meaning as
in  section 1 .

###### Procedure on appeal to CMA

21

21.1

Schedule 2  has effect.

21.2

Except where specified otherwise in  Schedule 2 , the functions of the CMA
with respect to an appeal under  section 20  are to be carried out on behalf
of the CMA by a group constituted for the purpose by the chair of the CMA
under Schedule 4 to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013.

###### Determination by CMA of appeal

22

22.1

This section applies to every appeal brought under  section 20 .

22.2

In determining an appeal the CMA must have regard, to the same extent as is
required of the economic regulator, to the matters to which the economic
regulator must have regard—

22.2.a

in the carrying out of its principal objectives under  section 1 , and

22.2.b

in the performance of its duties under that section.

22.3

In determining the appeal the CMA—

22.3.a

may have regard to any matter to which the economic regulator was not able to
have regard in relation to the decision which is the subject of the appeal,
but

22.3.b

must not, in the exercise of that power, have regard to any matter to which
the economic regulator would not have been entitled to have regard in reaching
its decision had it had the opportunity of doing so.

22.4

The CMA may allow the appeal only to the extent that it is satisfied that the
decision appealed against was wrong on one or more of the following grounds—

22.4.a

that the economic regulator failed properly to have regard to any matter
mentioned in  subsection (2) ;

22.4.b

that the economic regulator failed to give the appropriate weight to any
matter mentioned in  subsection (2) ;

22.4.c

that the decision was based, wholly or partly, on an error of fact;

22.4.d

that the modifications fail to achieve, in whole or in part, the effect stated
by the economic regulator by virtue of  section 13 (8) (b) ;

22.4.e

that the decision was wrong in law.

22.5

To the extent that the CMA does not allow the appeal, it must confirm the
decision appealed against.

###### CMA’s powers on allowing appeal

23

23.1

This section applies where the CMA allows an appeal to any extent.

23.2

If the appeal is in relation to a price control decision, the CMA must do one
or more of the following—

23.2.a

quash the decision (to the extent that the appeal is allowed);

23.2.b

remit the matter back to the economic regulator for reconsideration and
determination in accordance with any directions given by the CMA;

23.2.c

substitute the CMA’s decision for that of the economic regulator (to the
extent that the appeal is allowed) and give any directions to the economic
regulator or any other party to the appeal.

23.3

If the appeal is in relation to any other decision, the CMA must do one or
both of the following—

23.3.a

quash the decision (to the extent that the appeal is allowed);

23.3.b

remit the matter back to the economic regulator for reconsideration and
determination in accordance with any directions given by the CMA.

23.4

A direction under  subsection (2)  or (3) must not require a person to do
anything that the person would not have power to do (apart from the
direction).

23.5

A person to whom a direction is given under that subsection must comply with
it.

23.6

A direction given under that subsection to a person other than the economic
regulator is enforceable as if it were an order of the High Court or (in
Scotland) an order of the Court of Session.

23.7

For the purposes of this section a decision is a “ price control decision ”,
in relation to the modification of a condition of a licence, if the purpose of
the condition is, in the CMA’s opinion, to limit or control the charges on, or
the revenue of, the holder of the licence.

23.8

In determining for the purposes of  subsection (7)  what the purpose of a
condition is, the condition may be assessed on its own or in combination with
any other conditions of the licence.

23.9

In this section and  section 24  any reference to a party to an appeal is to
be read in accordance with  Schedule 2 .

###### Time limits for CMA to determine an appeal

24

24.1

The CMA must—

24.1.a

determine an appeal against a price control decision within the period of 6
months beginning with the permission date;

24.1.b

determine an appeal against any other decision within the period of 4 months
beginning with the permission date.

24.2

Subsection  (1) (a)  or (b) does not apply if  subsection (3)  applies.

24.3

This subsection applies where—

24.3.a

the CMA has received representations on the timing of the determination from a
party to the appeal, and

24.3.b

it is satisfied that there are special reasons why the determination cannot be
made within the period specified in subsection  (1) (a)  or (b).

24.4

Where  subsection (3)  applies, the CMA must—

24.4.a

determine an appeal against a price control decision within the period
specified by it, which must not be longer than the period of 7 months
beginning with the permission date;

24.4.b

determine an appeal against any other decision within the period specified by
it, which must not be longer than the period of 5 months beginning with the
permission date.

24.5

Where  subsection (3)  applies, the CMA must also—

24.5.a

inform the parties to the appeal of the time limit for determining the appeal,
and

24.5.b

publish that time limit in such manner as it considers appropriate for the
purpose of bringing it to the attention of any other persons likely to be
affected by the determination.

24.6

In this section “ price control decision ” is to be read in accordance with
section 23 .

24.7

References in this section to the “permission date” are to the date on which
the CMA gave permission to bring the appeal in accordance with  section 20 (3)
.

###### Determination of appeal by CMA: supplementary

25

25.1

A determination by the CMA on an appeal—

25.1.a

must be contained in an order made by the CMA;

25.1.b

must set out the reasons for the determination;

25.1.c

takes effect at the time—

25.1.c.i

specified in the order, or

25.1.c.ii

determined in accordance with provision made in the order;

25.1.d

must be notified by the CMA to the parties to the appeal;

25.1.e

must be published by the CMA—

25.1.e.i

as soon as reasonably practicable after the determination is made;

25.1.e.ii

in such manner as the CMA considers appropriate for the purpose of bringing
the determination to the attention of any person likely to be affected by it
(other than a party to the appeal).

25.2

The CMA may exclude from publication under subsection  (1) (e)  any
information which it is satisfied is—

25.2.a

commercial information, the disclosure of which would, or might in the CMA’s
opinion, significantly harm the legitimate business interests of an
undertaking to which it relates, or

25.2.b

information relating to the private affairs of an individual, the disclosure
of which would, or might in the CMA’s opinion, significantly harm the
individual’s interests.

25.3

The economic regulator must take such steps as it considers necessary for it
to comply with an order of the CMA made by virtue of  subsection (1) (a) .

25.4

The steps must be taken—

25.4.a

if a time is specified in (or is to be determined in accordance with) the
order, within that time;

25.4.b

in any other case, within a reasonable time.

25.5

Subsections  (2)  to (4) of  section 14  (consequences of modification of
standard conditions) apply where a condition of a licence is modified in
accordance with  section 23  as they apply where a condition of a licence is
modified under  section 13 .

##### Information

###### Provision of information to or by the economic regulator

26

26.1

The economic regulator may provide to a person within  subsection (2)  such
information as the economic regulator considers necessary in connection with
the exercise by the economic regulator of its functions relating to the
regulation of licensable activities.

26.2

The persons within this subsection are—

26.2.a

the Oil and Gas Authority;

26.2.b

the Environment Agency;

26.2.c

the Scottish Environment Protection Agency;

26.2.d

Natural Resources Wales;

26.2.e

the Health and Safety Executive;

26.2.f

the Health and Safety Executive for Northern Ireland;

26.2.g

the CMA;

26.2.h

the Scottish Ministers;

26.2.i

the Welsh Ministers;

26.2.j

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland;

26.2.k

the Northern Ireland Environment Agency;

26.2.l

the Secretary of State;

26.2.m

any other person the economic regulator considers appropriate who has powers
or duties conferred by or by virtue of primary legislation which the economic
regulator considers relevant to the exercise of the economic regulator’s
functions relating to the regulation of licensable activities.

26.3

The economic regulator may by notice request from a person within  subsection
(2)  such information as the economic regulator considers necessary in
connection with the exercise by the economic regulator of its functions
relating to the regulation of licensable activities.

26.4

A person to whom a request is made under  subsection (3)  must, so far as
reasonably practicable, provide the requested information within such period,
and in such form and manner, as may be specified in the notice.

26.5

Except as provided by  subsection (6) , the disclosure of information under
this section does not breach—

26.5.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

26.5.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

26.6

This section does not authorise or require a disclosure of information if the
disclosure would contravene the data protection legislation (but in
determining whether a disclosure would do so, the power conferred by
subsection (1)  or, as the case may be, the duty under  subsection (4)  is to
be taken into account).

26.7

In this section “ primary legislation ” means—

26.7.a

an Act of Parliament,

26.7.b

an Act of the Scottish Parliament,

26.7.c

an Act or Measure of Senedd Cymru, or

26.7.d

Northern Ireland legislation.

###### Power of Secretary of State to require information

27

27.1

The Secretary of State may by notice in writing require a licence holder to
provide the Secretary of State with information which is reasonably required
by the Secretary of State for the purposes of the Secretary of State’s
functions under this Part.

27.2

A notice under  subsection (1)  must specify—

27.2.a

the form and manner in which information is to be provided, and

27.2.b

the time within which it is to be provided.

27.3

A licence holder may not be required under this section to provide any
information that would be protected from disclosure or production in legal
proceedings on grounds of legal professional privilege or, in Scotland,
confidentiality of communications.

27.4

Except as provided by  subsection (5) , the disclosure of information under
this section does not breach—

27.4.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the licence holder making the disclosure,
or

27.4.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

27.5

This section does not authorise or require a disclosure of information if the
disclosure would contravene the data protection legislation (but in
determining whether a disclosure would do so, a requirement imposed under
subsection (1)  is to be taken into account).

##### Other functions of the economic regulator

###### Monitoring, information gathering etc

28

28.1

The economic regulator must keep under review the carrying on in the United
Kingdom and elsewhere of the following activities—

28.1.a

operating a site for the disposal of carbon dioxide by way of geological
storage;

28.1.b

providing a service of transporting carbon dioxide by a licensable means of
transportation;

28.1.c

activities ancillary to activities mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b).

28.2

The economic regulator may, for the purpose of facilitating the performance of
its functions under this Part, collect information with respect to such
activities.

28.3

The economic regulator must give the Secretary of State or the CMA any
information they may request with respect to any matter relating to the
economic regulator’s functions under this Part.

###### Power to require information for purposes of monitoring

29

29.1

The economic regulator may, for the purpose of exercising its functions under
subsections  (1)  and  (2)  of  section 28 , serve a notice under  subsection
(2)  on any licence holder.

29.2

A notice under this subsection is a notice which—

29.2.a

requires the person on whom it is served to produce, at a time and place
specified in the notice, to the economic regulator any documents which are
specified or described in the notice and are in that person’s custody or under
their control, or

29.2.b

requires that person, if they are carrying on a business, to provide to the
economic regulator in the form and manner, and within the period, specified in
the notice, the information specified or described in the notice.

29.3

In paragraphs (a) and (b) of  subsection (2)  the reference to the economic
regulator includes a person appointed by the economic regulator for the
purpose of exercising the function in question.

29.4

A person who intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any document or
record of information which that person has been required to produce by a
notice under  subsection (2)  is guilty of an offence liable—

29.4.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to a fine;

29.4.b

on summary conviction in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding
the statutory maximum;

29.4.c

on conviction on indictment, to a fine.

29.5

Except as provided by  subsection (6) , the disclosure of information under
this section does not breach—

29.5.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

29.5.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

29.6

This section does not authorise or require a disclosure of information if the
disclosure would contravene the data protection legislation (but in
determining whether a disclosure would do so, a requirement imposed by virtue
of  subsection (2)  is to be taken into account).

###### Duty to carry out impact assessment

30

30.1

This section applies where—

30.1.a

the economic regulator is proposing to do anything for the purposes of, or in
connection with, the carrying out of any function exercisable by it under or
by virtue of this Part, and

30.1.b

it appears to the economic regulator that the proposal is important;

but this section does not apply if it appears to the economic regulator that
the urgency of the matter makes it impracticable or inappropriate for the
economic regulator to comply with the requirements of this section.

30.2

A proposal is important for the purposes of this section only if its
implementation would be likely to do one or more of the following—

30.2.a

involve a major change in the activities carried on by the economic regulator;

30.2.b

have a significant impact on persons engaged in the capture, transportation or
storage of carbon dioxide;

30.2.c

have a significant impact on persons engaged in commercial activities
connected with the capture, transportation or storage of carbon dioxide;

30.2.d

have a significant impact on the general public in the United Kingdom or in a
part of the United Kingdom;

30.2.e

have significant effects on the environment.

30.3

Before implementing its proposal, the economic regulator must either—

30.3.a

carry out and publish an assessment of the likely impact of implementing the
proposal, or

30.3.b

publish a statement setting out its reasons for thinking that it is
unnecessary for it to carry out an assessment.

30.4

An assessment carried out under this section must—

30.4.a

include an assessment of the likely effects on the environment of implementing
the proposal, and

30.4.b

relate to such other matters as the economic regulator considers appropriate.

30.5

In determining the matters to which an assessment under this section should
relate, the economic regulator must have regard to such general guidance
relating to the carrying out of impact assessments as it considers
appropriate.

30.6

An assessment carried out under this section may take such form as the
economic regulator considers appropriate.

30.7

Where the economic regulator publishes an assessment under this section—

30.7.a

it must provide an opportunity of making representations to the economic
regulator about its proposal to members of the public and other persons who,
in the economic regulator’s opinion, are likely to be affected to a
significant extent by the proposal’s implementation,

30.7.b

the published assessment must be accompanied by a statement setting out how
representations may be made, and

30.7.c

the economic regulator must not implement its proposal unless the period for
making representations about the proposal has expired and it has considered
all the representations that were made in that period.

30.8

Where the economic regulator is required (apart from this section)—

30.8.a

to consult about a proposal to which this section applies, or

30.8.b

to give a person an opportunity of making representations about it,

the requirements of this section are in addition to, but may be performed
contemporaneously with, the other requirements.

30.9

Every report under  section 41  (annual reports on transport and storage
licensing functions) must set out—

30.9.a

a list of the assessments under this section carried out during the financial
year to which the report relates, and

30.9.b

a summary of the decisions taken during that year in relation to proposals to
which assessments carried out in that year or previous financial years relate.

30.10

The publication of anything under this section must be in such manner as the
economic regulator considers appropriate for bringing it to the attention of
the persons who, in the economic regulator’s opinion, are likely to be
affected if its proposal is implemented.

###### Reasons for decisions

31

31.1

This section applies to the following decisions of the economic regulator or
the Secretary of State—

31.1.a

the revocation of a licence;

31.1.b

the modification of the conditions of a licence;

31.1.c

the giving of any directions or consent in pursuance of a condition included
in a licence by virtue of  section 11 (2) (a)  or  (c) ;

31.1.d

the determination of a question referred in pursuance of a condition included
in a licence by virtue of  section 11 (2) (d) ;

31.1.e

the making of a final order, the making or confirmation of a provisional order
or the revocation of a final order or of a provisional order which has been
confirmed.

31.2

As soon as reasonably practicable after making such a decision the economic
regulator or the Secretary of State (“the decision maker”) must—

31.2.a

publish a notice stating the reasons for the decision in such manner as the
decision maker considers appropriate for the purpose of bringing the matters
to which the notice relates to the attention of persons likely to be
interested, and

31.2.b

send a copy of the notice to the licence holder to whose licence, or to whom,
the decision relates.

31.3

In preparing a notice under  subsection (2)  the decision maker must have
regard to the need for excluding, so far as that is practicable, any matter
which relates to the affairs of a particular individual or body of persons
(corporate or unincorporate), where the decision maker considers that
publication of that matter would or might seriously and prejudicially affect
the interests of that individual or body.

31.4

In this Part “ final order ” and “ provisional order ” have the same meaning
as in  Schedule 3  (see  paragraph 1 (12)  of that Schedule).

##### Enforcement

###### Enforcement of obligations of licence holders

32

Schedule 3  makes provision for the enforcement of conditions of licences and
of other requirements imposed on licence holders by or under this Part.

##### False statements

###### Making of false statements etc

33

33.1

A person who, in giving any information or making any application for the
purposes of any provision of this Part, or of any regulation made under any
provision of this Part, makes any statement which the person knows to be false
in a material particular, or recklessly makes any statement which is false in
a material particular, is guilty of an offence and liable—

33.1.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to a fine;

33.1.b

on summary conviction in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding
the statutory maximum;

33.1.c

on conviction on indictment, to a fine.

33.2

Proceedings for an offence under  subsection (1)  must not in England and
Wales be instituted except by or with the consent of the Secretary of State or
the Director of Public Prosecutions.

33.3

Proceedings for an offence under  subsection (1)  must not in Northern Ireland
be instituted except by or with the consent of the Director of Public
Prosecutions for Northern Ireland.

##### Criminal liability and procedure

###### Liability of officers of entities

34

34.1

Where an offence under this Part committed by a body corporate is proved—

34.1.a

to have been committed with the consent or connivance of an officer of the
body corporate, or

34.1.b

to be attributable to neglect on the part of an officer of the body corporate,

that officer (as well as the body corporate) commits the offence and is liable
to be proceeded against and dealt with accordingly.

34.2

In subsection (1) “ officer ”, in relation to a body corporate, means—

34.2.a

any director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body
corporate, or

34.2.b

any person purporting to act in any such capacity.

34.3

In subsection (2) “ director ”, in relation to a body corporate whose affairs
are managed by its members, means a member of the body corporate.

34.4

Where an offence under this Part is committed by a Scottish partnership and is
proved to have been committed with the consent or connivance of a partner, or
to be attributable to any neglect on the part of a partner, that partner (as
well as the partnership) commits the offence and is liable to be proceeded
against and dealt with accordingly.

###### Criminal proceedings

35

35.1

Proceedings for an offence under this Part may be taken, and the offence may
for all incidental purposes be treated as having been committed, in any place
in the United Kingdom.

35.2

Section 3 of the Territorial Waters Jurisdiction Act 1878 (restriction on
prosecutions) does not apply to any proceedings for an offence under this
Part.

35.3

Proceedings for an offence under this Part alleged to have been committed in
an offshore place may not be instituted in England and Wales except—

35.3.a

by the Secretary of State or a person authorised by the Secretary of State, or

35.3.b

by or with the consent of the Director of Public Prosecutions.

35.4

Proceedings for an offence under this Part alleged to have been committed in
an offshore place may not be instituted in Northern Ireland except—

35.4.a

by the Secretary of State or a person authorised by the Secretary of State, or

35.4.b

by or with the consent of the Director of Public Prosecutions for Northern
Ireland.

35.5

In this section “ offshore place ” means a place in, under or over—

35.5.a

the territorial sea adjacent to the United Kingdom, or

35.5.b

waters in a Gas Importation and Storage Zone (within the meaning given by
section 1 of the Energy Act 2008).

#### Functions with respect to competition

##### Functions under the Enterprise Act 2002

36

36.1

The functions to which  subsection (2)  applies are to be concurrent functions
of the economic regulator and the CMA.

36.2

This subsection applies to the functions of the CMA under Part 4 of the
Enterprise Act 2002 (other than sections 166, 171 and 174E) so far as those
functions are exercisable by the CMA Board (within the meaning of Schedule 4
to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013) and relate to commercial
activities connected with relevant storage and transport activities.

36.3

So far as necessary for the purposes of, or in connection with, subsections
(1)  and  (2) —

36.3.a

references in Part 4 of the Enterprise Act 2002 to the CMA (including
references in provisions of that Act applied by that Part) are to be construed
as including references to the economic regulator (except in sections 166, 171
and 174E of that Act and in any other provision of that Act where the context
otherwise requires);

36.3.b

references in that Part to section 5 of that Act are to be construed as
including references to  section 28 (1)  and (2) of this Act.

36.4

Section 130A of the Enterprise Act 2002 is to have effect in its application
in relation to the economic regulator by virtue of subsections  (1)  and  (2)
—

36.4.a

as if for subsection (1) of that section there were substituted—

36.4.a.1

Where the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority—

36.4.a.1.a

is proposing to carry out its functions under  section 28 (1)  or (2) of the
Energy Act 2023 in relation to a matter for the purposes mentioned in
subsection (2), and

36.4.a.1.b

considers that the matter is one in respect of which it would be appropriate
for the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority to exercise its powers under
section 174 (investigation) in connection with deciding whether to make a
reference under section 131,

the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority must publish a notice under this
section (referred to in this Part as a “ market study notice ”).

, and

36.4.b

as if in subsection (2)(a) of that section, for “the acquisition or supply of
goods or services of one or more than one description in the United Kingdom”
there were substituted  “commercial activities connected with activities to
which  section 36 (2)  of the Energy Act 2023 applies” .

36.5

It is to be the duty of the economic regulator, for the purpose of assisting a
CMA group in carrying out an investigation on a market investigation reference
made by the economic regulator (under section 131 of the Enterprise Act 2002)
by virtue of  subsection (1) , to give to the group—

36.5.a

any information which is in the economic regulator’s possession and which
relates to matters falling within the scope of the investigation and—

36.5.a.i

is requested by the group for that purpose, or

36.5.a.ii

is information which, in the economic regulator’s opinion, it would be
appropriate for that purpose to give to the group without any such request,
and

36.5.b

any other assistance which the group may require and which it is within the
economic regulator’s power to give, in relation to any such matters,

and the group must, for the purposes of carrying out any such investigation,
take into account any information given to them for that purpose under this
subsection.

36.6

In  subsection (5)  “ CMA group ” has the same meaning as in Schedule 4 to the
Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013.

##### Functions under the Competition Act 1998

37

37.1

The economic regulator is to be entitled to exercise, concurrently with the
CMA, the functions of the CMA under the provisions of Part 1 of the
Competition Act 1998 (other than sections 31D(1) to (6), 38(1) to (6), 40B(1)
to (4) and 51), so far as relating to—

37.1.a

agreements, decisions or concerted practices of the kind mentioned in section
2(1) of that Act, or

37.1.b

conduct of the kind mentioned in section 18(1) of that Act, or

which relate to the carrying on of relevant transport and storage activities.

37.2

So far as necessary for the purposes of, or in connection with, the provisions
of  subsection (1) , references in Part 1 of the Competition Act 1998 to the
CMA are to be read as including a reference to the economic regulator (except
in sections 31D(1) to (6), 38(1) to (6), 40B(1) to (4), 51, 52(6) and (8) and
54 of that Act and in any other provision of that Act where the context
otherwise requires).

##### Sections 

38

38.1

Before the CMA or the economic regulator first exercises in relation to any
matter functions which are exercisable concurrently by virtue of  section 36
(1)  or  37 (1) , it must consult the other.

38.2

Neither the CMA nor the economic regulator is to exercise in relation to any
matter functions which are exercisable concurrently by virtue of  section 36
(1)  or  37 (1)  if functions which are so exercisable have been exercised in
relation to that matter by the other.

38.3

If any question arises as to whether  section 36 (1)  or  37 (1)  applies to
any particular case, that question is to be referred to and determined by the
Secretary of State, and no objection may be taken to anything done under—

38.3.a

Part 4 of the Enterprise Act 2002, or

38.3.b

Part 1 of the Competition Act 1998 (other than sections 31D(1) to (6), 38(1)
to (6), 40B(1) to (4) and 51),

by or in relation to the economic regulator on the ground that it should have
been done by or in relation to the CMA.

38.4

In sections  36  and  37  “ relevant storage and transport activities ” means—

38.4.a

activities such as are mentioned in  section 2 (2) , and

38.4.b

activities ancillary to such activities.

#### Reporting requirements

##### Forward work programmes

39

39.1

The economic regulator must, before each financial year, publish a document
(the “transport and storage forward work programme”) containing a general
description of the relevant projects, other than those comprising routine
activities in the exercise of its functions, which it plans to undertake
during the year.

39.2

That description must include the objectives of each relevant project.

39.3

The forward work programme for any year must also include an estimate of the
overall expenditure which the economic regulator expects to incur during the
year in the exercise of its relevant functions.

39.4

Before publishing the forward work programme for any year, the economic
regulator must give notice—

39.4.a

containing a draft of the transport and storage forward work programme, and

39.4.b

specifying the time within which representations or objections to the
proposals contained in it may be made,

and must consider any representations or objections which are duly made and
not withdrawn.

39.5

The notice under  subsection (4)  must be published by the economic regulator
in such manner as it considers appropriate for the purpose of bringing the
matters contained in it to the attention of persons likely to be affected by
them.

39.6

The economic regulator must send a copy of any notice given by it under
subsection  (4)  to—

39.6.a

the Welsh Ministers,

39.6.b

the Scottish Ministers, and

39.6.c

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland.

39.7

In this section—

      “ relevant functions ” means functions of the economic regulator under
this Part;           “ relevant project ” means a project relating to the
economic regulator’s functions under this Part.

##### Information in relation to CCUS strategy and policy statement

40

40.1

As soon as reasonably practicable after the designation of a statement as the
CCUS strategy and policy statement for the purposes of this Part, the economic
regulator must publish a document setting out the required information in
relation to the statement.

40.2

The economic regulator must include the required information in relation to a
CCUS strategy and policy statement in the transport and storage forward work
programme for each financial year, subject to making such modifications to the
information as the economic regulator considers appropriate from the version
as last published under this subsection.

40.3

The required information in relation to a CCUS strategy and policy statement
to be set out in a document or forward work programme is—

40.3.a

the strategy the economic regulator intends to adopt for the purpose of
furthering the delivery of the policy outcomes contained in the statement
(both in respect of the year in or for which the document or programme is
issued and beyond);

40.3.b

the things the economic regulator proposes to do in implementing that strategy
(including when the economic regulator proposes to do them);

40.3.c

the ways in which the economic regulator has had regard to the strategic
priorities contained in the statement in setting out the information required
under paragraphs (a) and (b).

40.4

The duty under  subsection (1)  does not apply if—

40.4.a

the economic regulator does not think it reasonably practicable to publish the
document mentioned in that subsection before the time when the economic
regulator is next required to publish a transport and storage forward work
programme, and

40.4.b

the economic regulator includes the required information in that forward work
programme.

40.5

The duty under  subsection (2)  does not apply in relation to the first
financial year beginning after the designation of the statement if—

40.5.a

the economic regulator does not think it reasonably practicable to include the
required information in the transport and storage forward work programme for
that year, and

40.5.b

the economic regulator includes the required information in a document
published under  subsection (1) .

40.6

The duty under  subsection (2)  does not apply in relation to a financial year
if the Secretary of State gives notice to the economic regulator under this
subsection that the statement’s designation—

40.6.a

will be withdrawn before the beginning of the year, or

40.6.b

is expected to have been withdrawn before the beginning of the year.

40.7

Subsections  (4)  and  (5)  of  section 39  (notice requirements) apply to a
document published under  subsection (1)  as they apply to a transport and
storage forward work programme.

40.8

In this section—

      “ CCUS strategy and policy statement ”, “ policy outcomes ” and “
strategic priorities ” have the same meaning as in  Chapter 3  of  Part 2
(see  section 99 );           “ designation ”, in relation to a CCUS strategy
and policy statement, means designation of the statement by the Secretary of
State under  section 99 ;           “ transport and storage forward work
programme ” has the meaning given by  section 39 .

##### Annual report on transport and storage licensing functions

41

41.1

The economic regulator must, as soon as practicable after the end of each
financial year, make to the Secretary of State a report (the “annual T&S
report” for that year) on—

41.1.a

the exercise of its functions under this Part during that year including a
general survey of developments in respect of matters falling within the scope
of those functions, and

41.1.b

the activities of the CMA during that year in respect of any references made
by the economic regulator by virtue of  section 36 (1) .

41.2

The annual T&S report for each year must include–

41.2.a

a report on the progress of the projects described in the transport and
storage forward work programme for that year;

41.2.b

a summary of final and provisional orders made and penalties imposed by the
economic regulator during the year;

41.2.c

a report on such other matters as the Secretary of State may from time to time
require.

41.3

The annual T&S report for each year must also include a report on—

41.3.a

the ways in which the economic regulator has carried out its duties under
section 100 (1)  in relation to the CCUS strategy and policy statement (so far
as the statement’s designation was in effect during the whole or any part of
the year), and

41.3.b

the extent to which the economic regulator has done the things set out under
section 40  in a transport and storage forward work programme or other
document as the things the economic regulator proposed to do during that year
in implementing its strategy for furthering the delivery of the policy
outcomes contained in the statement (see  subsection (3) (b)  of that
section).

41.4

The report mentioned in  subsection (3)  must, in particular, include—

41.4.a

the economic regulator’s assessment of how the carrying out of its functions
under this Part during the year has contributed to the delivery of the policy
outcomes contained in the CCUS strategy and policy statement, and

41.4.b

if the economic regulator has failed to do any of the things mentioned in
subsection (3) (b) , an explanation for the failure and the actions the
economic regulator proposes to take to remedy it.

41.5

In subsections  (3)  and  (4) —

      “ CCUS strategy and policy statement ” and “policy outcomes” have the
same meaning as in  Chapter 3  of  Part 2  (see  section 99 );           “
transport and storage forward work programme ” has the meaning given by
section 39 (1) .

41.6

The Secretary of State must consult the economic regulator before exercising
the power under  subsection (2) (c)  in relation to any matter.

41.7

The Secretary of State must–

41.7.a

lay a copy of each annual T&S report before each House of Parliament,

41.7.b

send a copy of the report to the Scottish Ministers, the Welsh Ministers and
the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, and

41.7.c

arrange for the report to be published in such manner as the Secretary of
State considers appropriate.

41.8

The Scottish Ministers must lay a copy of each annual T&S report before the
Scottish Parliament.

41.9

The Welsh Ministers must lay a copy of each annual T&S report before Senedd
Cymru.

41.10

The Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland must lay a copy of each
annual T&S report before the Northern Ireland Assembly.

41.11

In making or preparing any report under this section the economic regulator
must have regard to the need for excluding, so far as practicable, any matter
which relates to the affairs of a particular individual or body of persons
(corporate or unincorporate), where publication of that matter would or might,
in the opinion of the economic regulator, seriously and prejudicially affect
the interests of that individual or body.

#### Special administration regime

##### Transport and storage administration orders

###### Transport and storage administration orders

42

42.1

A transport and storage administration order means an order which—

42.1.a

is made by the court in relation to a company which holds a licence under
section 7, and

42.1.b

directs that, while the order is in force, the affairs, business and property
of the company are to be managed by a person appointed by the court.

42.2

In this Chapter—

42.2.a

a transport and storage administration order is referred to as a T&S
administration order,

42.2.b

a company which holds a licence under  section 7  is referred to as a T&S
company, and

42.2.c

the person appointed in relation to a T&S company for the purposes of a T&S
administration order is referred to as the T&S administrator of the company.

42.3

The T&S administrator of a company must manage the company’s affairs, business
and property, and exercise and perform all the powers and duties of a T&S
administrator, so as to achieve the objective set out in section  43 .

42.4

In relation to a T&S administration order applying to a non-GB company,
references in this section to the affairs, business and property of the
company are references only—

42.4.a

to its affairs and business so far as carried on in Great Britain or a
relevant controlled place, and

42.4.b

to its property in Great Britain or a relevant controlled place.

42.5

In this section, “ relevant controlled place ” means a controlled place within
the meaning of section 17(3) to (4) of the Energy Act 2008 other than a place—

42.5.a

in Great Britain,

42.5.b

in Northern Ireland, or

42.5.c

in, under or over so much of the internal waters and territorial sea of the
United Kingdom as are adjacent to Northern Ireland.

###### Objective of a transport and storage administration

43

43.1

The objective of a transport and storage administration is to secure—

43.1.a

that the activities authorised by the licence of the T&S company to which the
administration relates commence, or continue, in a manner which—

43.1.a.i

is efficient and economical, and

43.1.a.ii

ensures the safety and security of the transport and storage network, or the
part of that network, to which the licence relates, and

43.1.b

that it becomes unnecessary, by one or both of the following means, for the
T&S administration order to remain in force for that purpose.

43.2

Those means are—

43.2.a

the rescue as a going concern of the company subject to the T&S administration
order, and

43.2.b

transfers falling within subsection  (3) .

43.3

A transfer falls within this subsection if it is a transfer as a going
concern—

43.3.a

to another company, or

43.3.b

as respects different parts of the undertaking of the company subject to the
T&S administration order, to two or more different companies,

of so much of that undertaking as it is appropriate to transfer for the
purpose of achieving the objective of the transport and storage
administration.

43.4

The means by which transfers falling within subsection  (3)  may be effected
include, in particular—

43.4.a

a transfer of the undertaking of the company subject to the T&S administration
order, or of a part of its undertaking, to a wholly-owned subsidiary of that
company, and

43.4.b

a transfer to a company of securities of a wholly-owned subsidiary to which
there has been a transfer falling within paragraph  (a) .

43.5

The objective of a transport and storage administration may be achieved by a
transfer falling within subsection  (3)  to the extent only that—

43.5.a

the rescue as a going concern of the company subject to the T&S administration
order is not reasonably practicable or is not reasonably practicable without
such a transfer,

43.5.b

the rescue of that company as a going concern will not achieve that objective
or will not do so without such a transfer,

43.5.c

such a transfer would produce a result for the company’s creditors as a whole
that is better than the result that would be produced without it, or

43.5.d

such a transfer would, without prejudicing the interests of those creditors as
a whole, produce a result for the company’s members as a whole that is better
than the result that would be produced without it.

43.6

In  subsection (1) (a) —

43.6.a

the reference to the activities authorised by the licence of the T&S company
to which the administration relates includes a reference to any construction
work or other activities needing to be carried out to commence those
activities, and

43.6.b

the reference to the safety and security of the transport and storage network,
or the part of that network, to which the licence relates includes a reference
to the safety and security of any infrastructure and facilities being
constructed for that network, or that part of that network.

##### Application and amendment of the Energy Act 2004

###### Application of certain provisions of the Energy Act 2004

44

44.1

Sections 156 to 167 of, and Schedules 20 and 21 to, the Energy Act 2004
(special administration regime for energy licensees) apply in relation to a
T&S administration order as they apply in relation to an energy administration
order within the meaning given by section 154(1) of that Act, but with the
modifications set out in  subsections (2)  to  (4) .

44.2

In the application of those provisions generally—

44.2.a

for “energy administration”, in each place where it occurs, substitute
“transport and storage administration” ;

44.2.b

for “energy administrator”, in each place where it occurs, substitute  “T&S
administrator” ;

44.2.c

for “Great Britain”, in each place it occurs (other than paragraphs 4(2)(e)
and 11(4) and (7) of Schedule 21), substitute  “Great Britain or a relevant
controlled place” ;

44.2.d

for “a protected energy company”, in each place where it occurs, substitute
“a T&S company” .

44.3

In the application of Schedule 20—

44.3.a

in paragraph 32(1)(d), for the words from ““energy administration
application”” to “Energy Act 2004” substitute  ““ transport and storage
administration application ” means an application to the court for a transport
and storage administration order under Chapter 3 of Part 3 of the Energy Act
2004, as applied by section  44  of the Energy Act 2023” ;

44.3.b

in paragraph 32(1)(e), for “section 155 of the Energy Act 2004” substitute
“section  43  of the Energy Act 2023” ;

44.3.c

in paragraph 36, for “section 154(4) of this Act” substitute  “ section 42 (4)
of the Energy Act 2023” ;

44.3.d

in paragraph 43, after “the Energy Act 2004” insert  “and section  44  of the
Energy Act 2023” ;

44.3.e

in paragraph 44(5), after “the Energy Act 2004” insert  “and section  44  of
the Energy Act 2023” ;

44.3.f

in paragraph 45, after “section 157(1)(e) of this Act” insert  “as applied by
section  44  of the Energy Act 2023” ;

44.3.g

omit paragraph 46 (but see section  48  of this Act);

44.3.h

in paragraph 47, after “Part 1 of this Schedule” insert  “and section  44  of
the Energy Act 2023” .

44.4

In the application of Schedule 21—

44.4.a

for “an energy transfer scheme”, in each place where it occurs, substitute  “a
T&S transfer scheme” ;

44.4.b

for “old energy company”, in each place where it occurs, substitute  “old T&S
company” ;

44.4.c

 for “new energy company”, in each place where it occurs, substitute  “new T&S
company” ;

44.4.d

in paragraph 1(b), for “section 155(3)” substitute  “section  43 (3)  of the
Energy Act 2023” ;

44.4.e

in paragraph 3(1), for “an “energy transfer scheme”” substitute  “a “T&S
transfer scheme”” ;

44.4.f

in paragraphs 3(8) and 9(6), for “GEMA” substitute

—

44.4.f.a

GEMA,

44.4.f.b

the Health and Safety Executive,

44.4.f.c

the Oil and Gas Authority,

44.4.f.d

the appropriate devolved authorities (if any), and

44.4.f.e

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

;

44.4.g

in paragraph 5, after sub-paragraph (4) insert—

44.4.g.5

This paragraph also applies in relation to any licence or permit that the
relevant licence mentioned in sub-paragraph (1) requires its holder to hold as
it applies in relation to the relevant licence.

;

44.4.h

in paragraphs 6(3) and 11(2), for “the energy transfer scheme” substitute
“the T&S transfer scheme” ;

44.4.i

in paragraph 12, for “section 155” substitute  “section  43  of the Energy Act
2023” ;

44.4.j

after paragraph 13 insert—

44.4.j.14

For the purposes of paragraphs 3(8)(e) and 9(6)(e) the “appropriate devolved
authorities” are—

44.4.j.14.a

the Welsh Ministers, if provision making the scheme or (as the case may be)
modification would be within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it
were contained in an Act of the Senedd (ignoring any requirement for the
consent of a Minister of the Crown imposed under Schedule 7B to the Government
of Wales Act 2006);

44.4.j.14.b

the Scottish Ministers, if provision making the scheme or (as the case may be)
modification would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish
Parliament if it were contained in an Act of that Parliament.

44.5

Sections 171 and 196 of the Energy Act 2004 (interpretation) apply for the
purposes of the application by subsection  (1)  of the provisions mentioned in
that subsection, but with the modifications set out in subsection  (6) .

44.6

In the application of section 171(1)—

44.6.a

insert, at the appropriate places, the following definitions—

      “ objective of the transport and storage administration ” is to be
construed in accordance with section  43  of the Energy Act 2023;

;

      “ relevant controlled place ” has the meaning given by  section 42 (5)
of the Energy Act 2023;

;

      “ T&S company ” has the meaning given by section  42 (2)  of the Energy
Act 2023;

;

      “ transport and storage administration order ” has the meaning given by
section  42 (1)  of the Energy Act 2023;

;

      “ transport and storage administration rules ” means the rules made
under section 411 of the 1986 Act by virtue of section 159(3) of this Act, for
the purpose of giving effect to this Chapter as applied by section  44  of the
Energy Act 2023;

;

44.6.b

for the definition of “energy administrator” substitute—

      “ T&S administrator ” has the meaning given by section  49  of the
Energy Act 2023;

;

44.6.c

for the definition of “relevant licence” substitute—

      “ relevant licence ” means a licence under section 7 of the Energy Act
2023.

###### Conduct of administration, transfer schemes etc

45

In section 159(3) of the Energy Act 2004 (conduct of administration, transfer
schemes, etc under Chapter 3 of Part 3 of that Act), for “or section 33 of the
Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022” substitute  “, section 33 of the Nuclear
Energy (Financing) Act 2022 or section  44  of the Energy Act 2023” .

##### Licence modifications

###### Modification of conditions of licences

46

46.1

The Secretary of State may modify the conditions of a T&S company’s licence
(“the section 7 licence”) so that they include—

46.1.a

conditions relating to the recovery of amounts owed to the Secretary of State
by the T&S company by virtue of, or otherwise relating to, financial
assistance given by the Secretary of State while a T&S administration order is
in force in relation to the T&S company;

46.1.b

conditions relating to raising of funds for the purpose of meeting of expenses
arising by virtue of the order.

46.2

The Secretary of State may exercise the power under  subsection (1)  only if a
T&S administration order is in force in relation to the T&S company.

46.3

Before making a modification under  subsection (1) , the Secretary of State
must consult—

46.3.a

the economic regulator,

46.3.b

if the  section 7  licence authorises activities within  section 2 (2) (a) ,
the person who granted any associated licence under section 18 of the Energy
Act 2008, and

46.3.c

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

46.4

The power to make modifications under  subsection (1)  includes power to make
such incidental, consequential or transitional modifications as the Secretary
of State considers necessary or expedient.

46.5

In  subsection (1) (a) , “ financial assistance ” means grants, loans,
guarantees or indemnities, or any other kind of financial assistance.

46.6

For the purposes of this section, a licence under section 18 of the Energy Act
2008 (“the carbon storage licence”) is an “ associated licence ” in relation
to the  section 7  licence if—

46.6.a

the carbon storage licence is in respect of activities within section 17(2)(a)
of that Act, and

46.6.b

any part of the site to which the  section 7  licence relates is within any
place to which the carbon storage licence relates.

##### Powers to modify enactments

###### Modification under the Enterprise Act 2002

47

47.1

The power to modify or apply enactments conferred on the Secretary of State by
each of the sections of the Enterprise Act 2002 mentioned in subsection  (2)
includes power to make such consequential modifications of this Chapter as the
Secretary of State considers appropriate in connection with any other
provision made under that section.

47.2

Those sections are—

47.2.a

sections 248 and 277 (amendments consequential on that Act); and

47.2.b

section 254 (power to apply insolvency law to foreign companies).

47.3

In section 170(1) of the Energy Act 2004 (modification of Chapter 3 of Part 3
of that Act under the Enterprise Act 2002), for “or section 33 of the Nuclear
Energy (Finance) Act 2022” substitute  “, section 33 of the Nuclear Energy
(Finance) Act 2022 or section  44  of the Energy Act 2023” .

###### Power to make further modifications of insolvency legislation

48

48.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

48.1.a

provide for insolvency legislation to apply in relation to any provision made
by or under this Chapter;

48.1.b

make such modifications of insolvency legislation as the Secretary of State
considers appropriate in relation to any provision made by or under this
Chapter (including any insolvency legislation that is applied under paragraph
(a) ).

48.2

In relation to regulations under subsection  (1) , “ insolvency legislation ”
means—

48.2.a

the Insolvency Act 1986,

48.2.b

Chapter 3 of Part 3 of the Energy Act 2004, and 

48.2.c

any other provision that relates to insolvency, or makes provision by
reference to anything that is or may be done under the Insolvency Act 1986,
and is—

48.2.c.i

contained in an Act passed before this Act or in the same Session, or

48.2.c.ii

made under an Act before the regulations come into force. 

48.3

Provision made under subsection  (1)  may amend this Chapter.

48.4

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Interpretation

###### Interpretation of 

49

49.1

In this Chapter—

      “ business ”, “ member ” and “ property ” have the same meanings as in
the Insolvency Act 1986;           “ company ” means—         a company
registered under the Companies Act 2006, or           an unregistered company;
“ court ”, in relation to a company, means the court—         having
jurisdiction to wind up the company, or           that would have such
jurisdiction apart from section 221(2) or 441(2) of the Insolvency Act 1986
(exclusion of winding up jurisdiction in case of companies having principal
place of business in, or incorporated in, Northern Ireland);                 “
modification ” includes omission, addition or alteration, and cognate
expressions are to be construed accordingly;           “ non-GB company ”
means a company incorporated outside Great Britain;           “ objective of a
transport and storage administration ” is to be construed in accordance with
section  43 ;           “ subsidiary ” and “wholly-owned subsidiary” have the
meaning given by section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006;           “ T&S
administration order ” (or “transport and storage administration order”) has
the meaning given by section  42 (1) ;           “ T&S administrator ” has the
meaning given by  section 42 (2) (c)  and is to be construed in accordance
with subsection  (2)  of this section;           “ T&S company ” has the
meaning given by  section 42 (2) (b) ;           “ unregistered company ”
means a company that is not registered under the Companies Act 2006.

49.2

In this Chapter references to the T&S administrator of a company—

49.2.a

include references to a person appointed under paragraph 91 or 103 of Schedule
B1 to the Insolvency Act 1986, as applied by Part 1 of Schedule 20 to the
Energy Act 2004 and section  44  of this Act to be the T&S administrator of
that company, and

49.2.b

where two or more persons are appointed to be the T&S administrator of that
company, are to be construed in accordance with the provision made under
section 158(5) of the Energy Act 2004, as applied by section  44  of this Act.

#### Transfer schemes

##### Transfer schemes

50

50.1

This section applies where—

50.1.a

a termination event has arisen in relation to a licence, and

50.1.b

the economic regulator has complied with its duties under section 17 in
relation to the termination event.

50.2

The Secretary of State may make a scheme for the transfer of designated
property, rights or liabilities of the licence holder to a person falling
within  subsection (3) , or two or more of those persons, with the objective
of—

50.2.a

securing that the activities authorised by the licence continue in a manner
which—

50.2.a.i

is efficient and economical, and

50.2.a.ii

ensures the safety and security of the transport and storage network, or the
part of that network, to which the licence relates, or

50.2.b

facilitating the cessation of the transportation and injection of carbon
dioxide authorised by the licence and ensuring the safety and security of the
transport and storage network, or the part of that network, to which the
licence relates.

50.3

The persons to whom a scheme may transfer designated property, rights or
liabilities are—

50.3.a

the Secretary of State;

50.3.b

any person the Secretary of State considers to be an appropriate person to
achieve the objective in  subsection (2) (a)  or (as the case may be)  (b) .

50.4

In determining whether a person is an appropriate person for the purposes of
subsection (3) (b) , the Secretary of State must take into account whether the
person would be able to meet the conditions and requirements of any licence or
permit that would be transferred to the person under the proposed scheme.

50.5

The Secretary of State may not make a scheme without the consent of—

50.5.a

the licence holder, and

50.5.b

where the scheme would transfer designated property, rights and liabilities to
a person or persons falling within subsection  (3) (b) , each such person.

50.6

In  this section —

      “ designated ”, in relation to a scheme, means specified in or
determined in accordance with the scheme;           “ termination event ” has
the meaning given by section 17.

##### Consultation in relation to transfers

51

51.1

If the Secretary of State proposes to make a scheme under  section 50 , the
Secretary of State must consult the licence holder mentioned in  section 50
(2)  (“the proposed transferor”) before making the scheme.

51.2

If the Secretary of State proposes to make a scheme under  section 50  which
transfers designated property, rights or liabilities to a person or persons
falling within  section 50 (3) (b)  (“the proposed transferee or
transferees”), the Secretary of State must consult before making the scheme—

51.2.a

the proposed transferee or transferees, and

51.2.b

where a proposed transferee is not a public authority—

51.2.b.i

the economic regulator,

51.2.b.ii

the Health and Safety Executive,

51.2.b.iii

the Oil and Gas Authority,

51.2.b.iv

the appropriate devolved authorities (if any), and

51.2.b.v

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

51.3

The matters on which the Secretary of State is to consult the proposed
transferor, and the proposed transferee or transferees, must include the
provision the proposed scheme should make.

51.4

The matters on which the Secretary of State is to consult a body or person
falling within  subsection (2) (b) (i)  to  (v)  must include whether the
proposed transferee is an appropriate person, or whether the proposed
transferees are appropriate persons, for the purposes of  section 50 (3) (b) .

51.5

For the purposes of  subsection (2) (b) (iv)  the “appropriate devolved
authorities” are—

51.5.a

the Welsh Ministers, if provision making the proposed scheme would be within
the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it were contained in an Act of
the Senedd (ignoring any requirement for the consent of a Minister of the
Crown imposed under Schedule 7B to the Government of Wales Act 2006);

51.5.b

the Scottish Ministers, if provision making the proposed scheme would be
within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if it were
contained in an Act of that Parliament;

51.5.c

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, if provision making the
proposed scheme—

51.5.c.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
it were contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

51.5.c.ii

would not, if it were contained in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State under
section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998.

51.6

In  this section , “ designated ” has the same meaning as in  section 50 .

##### Conduct of transfer schemes

52

Schedule 4  contains further provision about transfer schemes under  section
50 .

#### Miscellaneous and general

##### Cooperation of storage licensing authority with economic regulator

53

53.1

In Chapter 3 of Part 1 of the Energy Act 2008 (storage of carbon dioxide),
after section 34 insert—

########### Cooperation with economic regulator

53.1.34A

53.1.34A.1

This section applies where a licence holder also holds a relevant licence.

53.1.34A.2

The licensing authority who granted the licence to the licence holder must
provide such assistance as the economic regulator may reasonably require in
carrying out its functions in relation to the relevant licence.

53.1.34A.3

The licensing authority must, in particular, inform the economic regulator if
it becomes aware of—

53.1.34A.3.a

circumstances that have arisen, or are likely to arise, in relation to the
activities authorised by the licence which, in the opinion of the licensing
authority, could affect the carrying on of activities authorised by the
relevant licence;

53.1.34A.3.b

circumstances that have arisen, or are likely to arise, in which the licence
or a storage permit granted under the licence may be terminated.

53.1.34A.4

In this section—

      “ economic regulator ” has the same meaning as in Part 1 of the Energy
Act 2023 (see section 55 of that Act);           “ relevant licence ” means a
licence under section 7 of the Energy Act 2023;           “ storage permit ”
means a storage permit within the meaning of—         regulation 1(3) of the
Storage of Carbon Dioxide (Licensing etc) Regulations 2010 ( S.I. 2010/2221 ),
or           regulation 1(3) of the Storage of Carbon Dioxide (Licensing etc)
(Scotland) Regulations 2011 ( S.S.I. 2011/24 ).

########### Information sharing with economic regulator

53.1.34B

53.1.34B.1

A licensing authority may provide information relating to a licence or a
storage permit granted under a licence to the economic regulator for the
purpose of enabling or facilitating the exercise of the economic regulator’s
functions in relation to a relevant licence.

53.1.34B.2

Except as provided by  subsection (3) , the disclosure of information under
this section does not breach—

53.1.34B.2.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

53.1.34B.2.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

53.1.34B.3

This section does not authorise or require a disclosure of information if the
disclosure would contravene the data protection legislation (but in
determining whether a disclosure would do so, the power conferred by
subsection (1)  is to be taken into account).

53.1.34B.4

In this section—

      “ the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act);           “ economic
regulator ”, “ relevant licence ” and “ storage permit ” have the same meaning
as in section 34A;           “ information ” includes advice.

53.2

In section 8 of the Energy Act 2016 (matters to which the Oil and Gas
Authority must have regard), in subsection (1), in the paragraph headed
“Collaboration”, after “government of the United Kingdom” insert  “, with the
Gas and Electricity Markets Authority,” .

##### Amendments related to 

54

Schedule 5  contains amendments related to this Part.

##### Interpretation of 

55

In this Part—

      “ carbon dioxide stream ” means a flow of substances that results from
carbon dioxide capture processes;           “ CMA ” means the Competition and
Markets Authority;           “ contravention ”, in relation to any direction,
condition, requirement, regulation or order, includes any failure to comply
with it and cognate expressions are to be construed accordingly;           “
the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act);           “ economic
regulator ” has the meaning given by  section 1 (2) ;           “ enactment ”
includes—         an enactment contained in subordinate legislation (as
defined in section 21 of the Interpretation Act 1978);           an enactment
contained in, or in an instrument made under, a Measure or Act of Senedd
Cymru;           an enactment contained in, or in an instrument made under, an
Act of the Scottish Parliament;           an enactment contained in, or in an
instrument made under, Northern Ireland legislation;           any retained
direct EU legislation;                 “ final order ” has the meaning given
by  section 31 (4) ;           “ financial year ” means a financial year of
the economic regulator;           “ functions ” includes powers and duties;
“ geological formation ” means a lithostratigraphical subdivision within which
distinct rock layers can be found and mapped;           “ geological storage
”, in relation to carbon dioxide, means storage of carbon dioxide streams in
underground geological formations with a view to the permanent containment of
carbon dioxide (and references to geological storage are to be read as
including injection);           “ grantor ” has the meaning given by  section
9 (10) ;           “ licence ”, except where the context otherwise requires,
means a licence under  section 7 , and “licence holder” is to be interpreted
accordingly;           “ licensable activities ” has the meaning given by
section 1 (10) ;           “ licensable means of transportation ” has the
meaning given by  section 2 (3) ;           “ modifications ” includes
additions, alterations and omissions and cognate expressions are to be
construed accordingly;           “ operates ”, in relation to a site for the
geological storage of carbon dioxide, is to be interpreted in accordance with
section 2 (10) ;           “ provisional order ” has the meaning given by
section 31 (4) ;           “ transport and storage network ” has the meaning
given by  section 1 .

### Carbon dioxide capture, storage etc and hydrogen production, transport and storage

#### Revenue support contracts

##### Key definitions

###### Chapter 1: interpretation

56

56.1

In this Chapter—

“ allocation body ” has the meaning given by  section 73 (6) (d) ; “
allocation notification ” has the meaning given by  section 75 (3) ; “ carbon
capture allocation body ” has the meaning given by  section 73 (6) (b) ; “
carbon capture counterparty ” has the meaning given by  section 67 (3) ; “
carbon capture entity ” has the meaning given by  section 67 (7) ; “ carbon
capture revenue support contract ” has the meaning given by  section 67 (2) ;
“ carbon dioxide transport and storage counterparty ” has the meaning given by
section 59 (3) ; “ carbon dioxide transport and storage revenue support
contract ” has the meaning given by  section 59 (2) ; “ eligible carbon
capture entity ” is to be interpreted in accordance with regulations by virtue
of  section 68 (4) ; “ eligible hydrogen storage provider ” is to be
interpreted in accordance with  section 64 (4) ; “ eligible hydrogen transport
provider ” is to be interpreted in accordance with  section 62 (4) ; “
eligible low carbon hydrogen producer ” is to be interpreted in accordance
with regulations by virtue of  section 66 (4) ; “ GB gas shipper ” means a
person who holds a licence under section 7A(2) of the Gas Act 1986; “ hydrogen
levy administrator ” has the meaning given by  section 69 (6) ; “ hydrogen
production allocation body ” has the meaning given by  section 73 (6) (a) ; “
hydrogen production counterparty ” has the meaning given by  section 65 (3) ;
“ hydrogen production revenue support contract ” has the meaning given by
section 65 (2) ; “ hydrogen storage counterparty ” has the meaning given by
section 63 (3) ; “ hydrogen storage provider ” has the meaning given by
section 63 (7) ; “ hydrogen storage revenue support contract ” has the meaning
given by  section 63 (2) ; “ hydrogen transport counterparty ” has the meaning
given by  section 61 (3) ; “ hydrogen transport provider ” has the meaning
given by  section 61 (7) ; “ hydrogen transport revenue support contract ” has
the meaning given by  section 61 (2) ; “ low carbon hydrogen producer ” has
the meaning given by  section 65 (7) ; “ Northern Ireland gas shipper ” means
a person who holds a licence under Article 8(1)(c) of the Gas (Northern
Ireland) Order 1996 ( S.I. 1996/275 (N.I. 2))  and who in the opinion of the
Secretary of State carries on an activity which is similar to an activity that
(in Great Britain) may be authorised by a licence under section 7A(2) of the
Gas Act 1986; “ relevant market participant ” has the meaning given by
section 70 (8) ; “ revenue support contract ” has the meaning given by
section 57 (2) ; “ revenue support counterparty ” has the meaning given by
section 58 (6) ; “ revenue support regulations ” has the meaning given by
section 57 (4) .

56.2

In this Chapter references to “allocating” a hydrogen production revenue
support contract or carbon capture revenue support contract to a person are to
be interpreted in accordance with  section 73 (6) .

##### Provision of revenue support under certain contracts

###### Revenue support contracts

57

57.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about revenue support
contracts (including the funding of liabilities and costs in relation to such
contracts).

57.2

In this Chapter “ revenue support contract ” means—

57.2.a

a carbon dioxide transport and storage revenue support contract (see  section
59 (2) ),

57.2.b

a hydrogen transport revenue support contract (see  section 61 (2) ),

57.2.c

a hydrogen storage revenue support contract (see  section 63 (2) ),

57.2.d

a hydrogen production revenue support contract (see  section 65 (2) ), or

57.2.e

a carbon capture revenue support contract (see  section 67 (2) ).

57.3

The provision made by this Chapter is without prejudice to the generality of
subsection (1) .

57.4

In this Part “ revenue support regulations ” means regulations under this
section.

57.5

Revenue support regulations may—

57.5.a

make different provision for different cases or circumstances or for different
purposes;

57.5.b

provide for exemptions or other exceptions to any requirement imposed by the
regulations.

57.6

Revenue support regulations may—

57.6.a

include incidental, supplementary or consequential provision;

57.6.b

make transitory or transitional provision or savings.

57.7

Revenue support regulations may confer any function on any person.

57.8

Revenue support regulations may provide for a function conferred on a person
to be exercisable on that person’s behalf by another person.

57.9

Regulations of any of the following kinds are subject to the affirmative
procedure—

57.9.a

the first revenue support regulations that make (with or without other
provision) provision falling within any of sections  70 ,  71 ,  72 ,  77 ,
78 ,  82  or  83 ;

57.9.b

revenue support regulations that make (with or without other provision)
provision falling within any of sections  58 (2) ,  60 (3) ,  62 (2)  or  (4)
,  64 (2)  or  (4) ,  66 (2)  or  (4) ,  68 (2)  or  (4) ,  75 ,  76 ,  81 (4)
or  84 .

57.10

Any other revenue support regulations are subject to the negative procedure.

57.11

If, apart from this subsection, a draft of an instrument containing revenue
support regulations would be treated for the purposes of the standing orders
of either House of Parliament as a hybrid instrument, it is to proceed in that
House as if it were not such an instrument.

##### Duties of revenue support counterparty

###### Duties of revenue support counterparty

58

58.1

A revenue support counterparty must act in accordance with—

58.1.a

any direction given by the Secretary of State by virtue of this Chapter;

58.1.b

any provision included in revenue support regulations.

58.2

Revenue support regulations may make provision—

58.2.a

to require a revenue support counterparty to enter into arrangements or to
offer to contract for purposes connected to a revenue support contract;

58.2.b

specifying things that a revenue support counterparty may or must do, or
things that a revenue support counterparty may not do;

58.2.c

conferring on the Secretary of State further powers to direct a revenue
support counterparty to do, or not to do, things specified in the regulations
or the direction.

58.3

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (2) (b)  or  (c)
includes provision requiring consultation with, or the consent of, the
Secretary of State in relation to—

58.3.a

the determination of an application for a modification agreement under
section 78 ;

58.3.b

the enforcement of obligations under a revenue support contract;

58.3.c

a variation or termination of a revenue support contract;

58.3.d

the settlement or compromise of a claim under a revenue support contract;

58.3.e

the conduct of legal proceedings relating to a revenue support contract;

58.3.f

the exercise of rights under a revenue support contract.

58.4

A revenue support counterparty must exercise the functions conferred by or by
virtue of this Chapter so as to ensure that it can meet its liabilities under
any revenue support contract to which it is a party.

58.5

Revenue support regulations must include such provision as the Secretary of
State considers necessary so as to ensure that a carbon dioxide transport and
storage counterparty, hydrogen transport counterparty, hydrogen storage
counterparty, hydrogen production counterparty or carbon capture counterparty
can meet its liabilities under any carbon dioxide transport and storage
revenue support contract, hydrogen transport revenue support contract,
hydrogen storage revenue support contract, hydrogen production revenue support
contract or (as the case may be) carbon capture revenue support contract to
which it is a party.

58.6

In this Chapter “ revenue support counterparty ” means—

58.6.a

a carbon dioxide transport and storage counterparty (see  section 59 (3) ),

58.6.b

a hydrogen transport counterparty (see  section 61 (3) ),

58.6.c

a hydrogen storage counterparty (see  section 63 (3) ),

58.6.d

a hydrogen production counterparty (see  section 65 (3) ), or

58.6.e

a carbon capture counterparty (see  section 67 (3) ).

##### Carbon dioxide capture, storage etc and hydrogen production, transport and storage

###### Designation of carbon dioxide transport and storage counterparty

59

59.1

The Secretary of State may by notice given to a person designate the person to
be a counterparty for carbon dioxide transport and storage revenue support
contracts.

59.2

A “carbon dioxide transport and storage revenue support contract” is a
contract in relation to which both the following paragraphs apply—

59.2.a

the contract is between a carbon dioxide transport and storage counterparty
and the holder of a licence under  section 7 ;

59.2.b

the contract was entered into by a carbon dioxide transport and storage
counterparty in pursuance of a direction given to it under  section 60 (1) .

59.3

A person designated under  subsection (1)  is referred to in this Chapter as a
“carbon dioxide transport and storage counterparty”.

59.4

A designation may be made only with the consent of the person designated
(except where that person is the Secretary of State).

59.5

The Secretary of State may exercise the power to designate so that more than
one designation has effect under  subsection (1) , but only if the Secretary
of State considers it necessary for the purposes of ensuring that—

59.5.a

liabilities under a carbon dioxide transport and storage revenue support
contract are met,

59.5.b

arrangements entered into for purposes connected to a carbon dioxide transport
and storage revenue support contract continue to operate, or

59.5.c

directions given to a carbon dioxide transport and storage counterparty
continue to have effect.

59.6

As soon as reasonably practicable after a designation ceases to have effect,
the Secretary of State must make one or more transfer schemes under  section
86  to ensure the transfer of all rights and liabilities under any carbon
dioxide transport and storage revenue support contract to which the person who
has ceased to be a carbon dioxide transport and storage counterparty was a
party.

###### Direction to offer to contract with licence holder

60

60.1

The Secretary of State may, in accordance with any provision made by revenue
support regulations, direct a carbon dioxide transport and storage
counterparty to offer to contract with an eligible person specified in the
direction, on terms specified in the direction.

60.2

The following are “eligible” persons for the purposes of  this section —

60.2.a

the holder of a licence under  section 7 , or

60.2.b

a person who is to be granted a licence under  section 7  (and has been
notified of that by the Secretary of State or the GEMA).

60.3

Revenue support regulations may make further provision about a direction under
this section and in particular about—

60.3.a

the circumstances in which a direction may or must be given;

60.3.b

the terms that may or must be specified in a direction.

##### Hydrogen transport

###### Designation of hydrogen transport counterparty

61

61.1

The Secretary of State may by notice given to a person designate the person to
be a counterparty for hydrogen transport revenue support contracts.

61.2

A “hydrogen transport revenue support contract” is a contract to which a
hydrogen transport counterparty is a party and which was entered into by a
hydrogen transport counterparty in pursuance of a direction given to it under
section 62 (1) .

61.3

A person designated under  subsection (1)  is referred to in this Chapter as a
“hydrogen transport counterparty”.

61.4

A designation may be made only with the consent of the person designated
(except where that person is the Secretary of State).

61.5

The Secretary of State may exercise the power of designation so that more than
one designation has effect under  subsection (1) , but only if the Secretary
of State considers it necessary for the purposes of ensuring that—

61.5.a

liabilities under a hydrogen transport revenue support contract are met,

61.5.b

arrangements entered into for purposes connected to a hydrogen transport
revenue support contract continue to operate, or

61.5.c

directions given to a hydrogen transport counterparty continue to have effect.

61.6

As soon as reasonably practicable after a designation ceases to have effect,
the Secretary of State must make one or more transfer schemes under  section
86  to ensure the transfer of all rights and liabilities under any hydrogen
transport revenue support contract to which the person who has ceased to be a
hydrogen transport counterparty was a party.

61.7

In this Chapter “ hydrogen transport provider ” means a person who carries on
(or is to carry on) in the United Kingdom activities of transporting hydrogen.

61.8

In  subsection (7)  the reference to carrying on activities in the United
Kingdom includes carrying on activities in, above or below—

61.8.a

the territorial sea adjacent to the United Kingdom;

61.8.b

waters in a Renewable Energy Zone (within the meaning of Chapter 2 of Part 2
of the Energy Act 2004);

61.8.c

waters in a Gas Importation and Storage Zone (within the meaning given by
section 1 of the Energy Act 2008).

61.9

In  subsection (7)  “ transporting hydrogen ” includes transporting a
compound, of which hydrogen is an element, which revenue support regulations
specify as a qualifying compound for the purposes of this section.

###### Direction to offer to contract with eligible hydrogen transport provider

62

62.1

The Secretary of State may, in accordance with any provision made by revenue
support regulations, direct a hydrogen transport counterparty to offer to
contract with an eligible hydrogen transport provider specified in the
direction, on terms specified in the direction.

62.2

Revenue support regulations may make further provision about a direction under
this section and in particular about—

62.2.a

the circumstances in which a direction may or must be given;

62.2.b

the terms that may or must be specified in a direction.

62.3

Provision falling within  subsection (2)  may include provision for
calculations or determinations to be made under the regulations, including by
such persons, in accordance with such procedure and by reference to such
matters and to the opinion of such persons, as may be specified in the
regulations.

62.4

Revenue support regulations must make provision for determining the meaning of
“ eligible ” in relation to a hydrogen transport provider.

62.5

Regulations within  subsection (4)  may in particular make provision by
reference to standards or other published documents (as they have effect from
time to time).

##### Hydrogen storage

###### Designation of hydrogen storage counterparty

63

63.1

The Secretary of State may by notice given to a person designate the person to
be a counterparty for hydrogen storage revenue support contracts.

63.2

A “hydrogen storage revenue support contract” is a contract to which a
hydrogen storage counterparty is a party and which was entered into by a
hydrogen storage counterparty in pursuance of a direction given to it under
section 64 (1) .

63.3

A person designated under  subsection (1)  is referred to in this Chapter as a
“hydrogen storage counterparty”.

63.4

A designation may be made only with the consent of the person designated
(except where that person is the Secretary of State).

63.5

The Secretary of State may exercise the power of designation so that more than
one designation has effect under  subsection (1) , but only if the Secretary
of State considers it necessary for the purposes of ensuring that—

63.5.a

liabilities under a hydrogen storage revenue support contract are met,

63.5.b

arrangements entered into for purposes connected to a hydrogen storage revenue
support contract continue to operate, or

63.5.c

directions given to a hydrogen storage counterparty continue to have effect.

63.6

As soon as reasonably practicable after a designation ceases to have effect,
the Secretary of State must make one or more transfer schemes under  section
86  to ensure the transfer of all rights and liabilities under any hydrogen
storage revenue support contract to which the person who has ceased to be a
hydrogen storage counterparty was a party.

63.7

In this Chapter “ hydrogen storage provider ” means a person who carries on
(or is to carry on) in the United Kingdom activities of storing hydrogen.

63.8

In  subsection (7)  the reference to carrying on activities in the United
Kingdom includes carrying on activities in, above or below—

63.8.a

the territorial sea adjacent to the United Kingdom;

63.8.b

waters in a Renewable Energy Zone (within the meaning of Chapter 2 of Part 2
of the Energy Act 2004);

63.8.c

waters in a Gas Importation and Storage Zone (within the meaning given by
section 1 of the Energy Act 2008).

63.9

In  subsection (7)  “ storing hydrogen ” includes storing a compound, of which
hydrogen is an element, which revenue support regulations specify as a
qualifying compound for the purposes of this section.

###### Direction to offer to contract with eligible hydrogen storage provider

64

64.1

The Secretary of State may, in accordance with any provision made by revenue
support regulations, direct a hydrogen storage counterparty to offer to
contract with an eligible hydrogen storage provider specified in the
direction, on terms specified in the direction.

64.2

Revenue support regulations may make further provision about a direction under
this section and in particular about—

64.2.a

the circumstances in which a direction may or must be given;

64.2.b

the terms that may or must be specified in a direction.

64.3

Provision falling within  subsection (2)  may include provision for
calculations or determinations to be made under the regulations, including by
such persons, in accordance with such procedure and by reference to such
matters and to the opinion of such persons, as may be specified in the
regulations.

64.4

Revenue support regulations must make provision for determining the meaning of
“ eligible ” in relation to a hydrogen storage provider.

64.5

Regulations within  subsection (4)  may in particular make provision by
reference to standards or other published documents (as they have effect from
time to time).

##### Hydrogen production

###### Designation of hydrogen production counterparty

65

65.1

The Secretary of State may by notice given to a person designate the person to
be a counterparty for hydrogen production revenue support contracts.

65.2

A “hydrogen production revenue support contract” is a contract to which a
hydrogen production counterparty is a party and which was entered into by a
hydrogen production counterparty in pursuance of a direction given to it under
section 66 (1)  or a notification given to it under  section 75 (1) .

65.3

A person designated under  subsection (1)  is referred to in this Chapter as a
“hydrogen production counterparty”.

65.4

A designation may be made only with the consent of the person designated
(except where that person is the Secretary of State).

65.5

The Secretary of State may exercise the power of designation so that more than
one designation has effect under  subsection (1) , but only if the Secretary
of State considers it necessary for the purposes of ensuring that—

65.5.a

liabilities under a hydrogen production revenue support contract are met,

65.5.b

arrangements entered into for purposes connected to a hydrogen production
revenue support contract continue to operate, or

65.5.c

directions given to a hydrogen production counterparty continue to have
effect.

65.6

As soon as reasonably practicable after a designation ceases to have effect,
the Secretary of State must make one or more transfer schemes under  section
86  to ensure the transfer of all rights and liabilities under any hydrogen
production revenue support contract to which the person who has ceased to be a
hydrogen production counterparty was a party.

65.7

In this Chapter—

“ low carbon hydrogen producer ” means a person who carries on (or is to carry
on) in the United Kingdom activities of producing hydrogen which in the
opinion of the Secretary of State will contribute to a reduction in emissions
of greenhouse gases; “ greenhouse gas ” has the meaning given by section 92(1)
of the Climate Change Act 2008.

65.8

In  subsection (7)  the reference to carrying on activities in the United
Kingdom includes carrying on activities in, above or below—

65.8.a

the territorial sea adjacent to the United Kingdom;

65.8.b

waters in a Renewable Energy Zone (within the meaning of Chapter 2 of Part 2
of the Energy Act 2004).

###### Direction to offer to contract with eligible low carbon hydrogen producer

66

66.1

The Secretary of State may, in accordance with any provision made by revenue
support regulations, direct a hydrogen production counterparty to offer to
contract with an eligible low carbon hydrogen producer specified in the
direction, on terms specified in the direction.

66.2

Revenue support regulations may make further provision about a direction under
this section and in particular about—

66.2.a

the circumstances in which a direction may or must be given;

66.2.b

the terms that may or must be specified in a direction.

66.3

Provision falling within  subsection (2)  may include provision for—

66.3.a

the determination of a matter on a competitive basis,

66.3.b

calculations or determinations to be made under the regulations, including by
such persons, in accordance with such procedure and by reference to such
matters and to the opinion of such persons, as may be specified in the
regulations.

66.4

Revenue support regulations must make provision for determining the meaning of
“ eligible ” in relation to a low carbon hydrogen producer.

66.5

Regulations within  subsection (4)  may in particular make provision by
reference to standards or other published documents (as they have effect from
time to time).

##### Carbon capture

###### Designation of carbon capture counterparty

67

67.1

The Secretary of State may by notice given to a person designate the person to
be—

67.1.a

a counterparty for carbon capture revenue support contracts;

67.1.b

a counterparty for any one or more descriptions of carbon capture revenue
support contract.

67.2

A “carbon capture revenue support contract” is a contract to which a carbon
capture counterparty is a party and which was entered into by a carbon capture
counterparty in pursuance of a direction given to it under  section 68 (1)  or
a notification given to it under  section 75 (2) .

67.3

A person designated under  subsection (1)  is referred to in this Chapter as a
“carbon capture counterparty”.

67.4

A designation may be made only with the consent of the person designated
(except where that person is the Secretary of State).

67.5

The Secretary of State may—

67.5.a

exercise the power under paragraph (a) of  subsection (1)  so that more than
one designation has effect under that paragraph;

67.5.b

exercise the power under  paragraph (b)  of that subsection so that more than
one designation has effect in respect of any description of carbon capture
revenue support contract.

67.6

As soon as reasonably practicable after a designation ceases to have effect,
the Secretary of State must make one or more transfer schemes under  section
86  to ensure the transfer of all rights and liabilities under any carbon
capture revenue support contract to which the person who has ceased to be a
carbon capture counterparty was a party.

67.7

In this section—

      “ carbon capture entity ” means a person who carries on (or is to carry
on) in the United Kingdom, with a view to the storage of carbon dioxide,
activities of capturing carbon dioxide (or any substance consisting primarily
of carbon dioxide) that—         has been produced by commercial or industrial
activities,           is in the atmosphere, or           has dissolved in sea
water;                 “ storage ”, in relation to carbon dioxide, means any
storage with a view to the permanent containment of carbon dioxide.

67.8

In  subsection (7)  the reference to carrying on activities in the United
Kingdom includes carrying on activities in, above or below—

67.8.a

the territorial sea adjacent to the United Kingdom;

67.8.b

waters in a Gas Importation and Storage Zone (within the meaning given by
section 1 of the Energy Act 2008).

###### Direction to offer to contract with eligible carbon capture entity

68

68.1

The Secretary of State may, in accordance with any provision made by revenue
support regulations, direct a carbon capture counterparty to offer to contract
with an eligible carbon capture entity specified in the direction, on terms
specified in the direction.

68.2

Revenue support regulations may make further provision about a direction under
this section and in particular about—

68.2.a

the circumstances in which a direction may or must be given;

68.2.b

the terms that may or must be specified in a direction.

68.3

Provision falling within  subsection (2)  may include provision for—

68.3.a

the determination of a matter on a competitive basis,

68.3.b

calculations or determinations to be made under the regulations, including by
such persons, in accordance with such procedure and by reference to such
matters and to the opinion of such persons, as may be specified in the
regulations.

68.4

Revenue support regulations must make provision for determining the meaning of
“ eligible ” in relation to a carbon capture entity.

68.5

Regulations within  subsection (4)  may in particular make provision by
reference to standards or other published documents (as they have effect from
time to time).

##### Hydrogen levy

###### Appointment of hydrogen levy administrator

69

69.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations appoint a person to carry out
functions with respect to obligations of relevant market participants under
section 70 .

69.2

The Secretary of State may exercise the power under  subsection (1)  so that
more than one appointment has effect under that subsection at the same time.

69.3

An appointment may be made only with the consent of the person appointed
(except where that person is the Secretary of State).

69.4

An appointment ceases to have effect if the Secretary of State by regulations
revokes the appointment.

69.5

As soon as reasonably practicable after a person’s appointment under
subsection (1)  ceases to have effect, the Secretary of State must make one or
more transfer schemes under  section 86  to ensure the transfer of any rights
and liabilities of that person that the Secretary of State considers
appropriate.

69.6

A person appointed under  subsection (1)  is called a “hydrogen levy
administrator”.

###### Obligations of relevant market participants

70

70.1

Revenue support regulations may make provision for relevant market
participants (see  subsection (8) ) to make payments to a hydrogen levy
administrator for the purpose of enabling—

70.1.a

a hydrogen transport counterparty to make payments under a hydrogen transport
revenue support contract or in respect of liabilities incurred in connection
with hydrogen transport revenue support contracts;

70.1.b

a hydrogen storage counterparty to make payments under a hydrogen storage
revenue support contract or in respect of liabilities incurred in connection
with hydrogen storage revenue support contracts;

70.1.c

a hydrogen production counterparty to make payments under a hydrogen
production revenue support contract or in respect of liabilities incurred in
connection with the contract;

70.1.d

a counterparty to a carbon dioxide transport and storage revenue support
contract to make payments under that contract, or in respect of liabilities
incurred in connection with that contract, for a purpose connected with
hydrogen production revenue support contracts.

70.2

Revenue support regulations may make provision for relevant market
participants to make payments to a hydrogen levy administrator for the purpose
of enabling the hydrogen levy administrator—

70.2.a

to meet or reimburse such descriptions of relevant costs (whether of the
hydrogen levy administrator or another person) as the Secretary of State
considers appropriate;

70.2.b

to hold sums in reserve;

70.2.c

to cover losses in the case of insolvency or default of a relevant market
participant.

70.3

Revenue support regulations may make provision about the method of calculating
or determining amounts that are to be paid by a hydrogen levy administrator
for a purpose mentioned in subsection  (1)  or  (2) , including provision for
adjustments or apportionments in cases where an amount required to be paid by
a hydrogen levy administrator for such a purpose has not been paid in full.

70.4

Revenue support regulations may make provision to require relevant market
participants to provide financial collateral to a hydrogen levy administrator
(whether in cash, securities or any other form).

70.5

Revenue support regulations that make provision by virtue of  subsection (1)
for the payment of sums by relevant market participants must impose on a
hydrogen levy administrator a duty in relation to the collection of such sums.

70.6

In  subsection (1)  a reference to liabilities incurred in connection with a
revenue support contract includes liabilities incurred in connection with a
contract entered into by the counterparty concerned for a purpose related to
that contract.

70.7

In  subsection (2)  “ relevant costs ” means any costs in connection with the
performance of any function conferred by or by virtue of this Chapter.

70.8

In this Chapter “ relevant market participants ” means one or more
descriptions of persons specified in revenue support regulations, but a
description so specified may not include persons other than—

70.8.a

GB gas shippers;

70.8.b

Northern Ireland gas shippers.

70.9

Revenue support regulations may make provision about eligibility for
exemptions from obligations imposed on relevant market participants by
regulations within subsections  (1)  to  (4) .

###### Payments to relevant market participants

71

71.1

Revenue support regulations may make provision about amounts which must be
paid—

71.1.a

by a hydrogen levy administrator to relevant market participants, or

71.1.b

by a relevant counterparty—

71.1.b.i

to relevant market participants, or

71.1.b.ii

to a hydrogen levy administrator for the purpose of enabling payments to be
made to relevant market participants.

71.2

Regulations by virtue of subsection  (1)  may make provision—

71.2.a

for a hydrogen levy administrator to calculate or determine, in accordance
with such criteria as may be provided for by or under the regulations, amounts
which are owed by—

71.2.a.i

the hydrogen levy administrator, or

71.2.a.ii

a relevant counterparty;

71.2.b

for a relevant counterparty to calculate or determine, in accordance with such
criteria as may be provided for by or under the regulations, amounts which are
owed by—

71.2.b.i

the relevant counterparty, or

71.2.b.ii

a hydrogen levy administrator;

71.2.c

for the issuing of notices by a hydrogen levy administrator to require the
payment by a relevant counterparty of amounts calculated or determined by the
hydrogen levy administrator in accordance with paragraph  (a) (ii) ;

71.2.d

for the issuing of notices by a relevant counterparty to require the payment
by a hydrogen levy administrator of amounts calculated or determined by the
relevant counterparty in accordance with paragraph  (b) (ii) ;

71.2.e

for the provision of copies of notices such as are mentioned in paragraph (c)
or (d) to persons specified in the regulations, or the publication of such
notices.

71.3

Revenue support regulations may make provision imposing on a relevant market
participant who receives a payment from a hydrogen levy administrator or a
relevant counterparty a requirement to secure that customers of the relevant
market participant receive, by a time specified in the regulations, such
benefit from the payment as may be specified in or determined in accordance
with the regulations.

71.4

In this section “ relevant counterparty ” means any of the following—

71.4.a

a hydrogen transport counterparty;

71.4.b

a hydrogen storage counterparty;

71.4.c

a hydrogen production counterparty.

###### Functions of hydrogen levy administrator

72

72.1

Revenue support regulations may make provision—

72.1.a

specifying things that a hydrogen levy administrator may or must do, or things
that a hydrogen levy administrator may not do;

72.1.b

conferring on the Secretary of State powers to direct a hydrogen levy
administrator to do, or not to do, things specified in the regulations or the
direction.

72.2

The following provisions of this section are without prejudice to the
generality of  subsection (1) (a) .

72.3

Revenue support regulations may make provision—

72.3.a

for a hydrogen levy administrator to calculate or determine, in accordance
with such criteria as may be provided for by or under the regulations, amounts
that are owed by a relevant market participant or are to be provided as
financial collateral by a relevant market participant;

72.3.b

for the issuing of notices by a hydrogen levy administrator to require the
payment or provision of such amounts;

72.3.c

for the provision of copies of such notices to persons specified in the
regulations or the publication of such notices;

72.3.d

for the enforcement of obligations imposed by or under the regulations
(including provision about interest on late payments and imposing financial
penalties);

72.3.e

about the resolution of disputes, including provision about arbitration or
appeals (which may in particular include provision for the person conducting
an arbitration or determining an appeal to order the payment of costs or
expenses or compensation);

72.3.f

for a hydrogen levy administrator to determine the form and terms of any
financial collateral;

72.3.g

for a hydrogen levy administrator to hold sums in reserve.

72.4

Provision made by virtue of  subsection (3) (a)  or  section 70 (3)  or  (9)
or  71 (2)  or  (3)  may provide for anything that is to be calculated or
determined under the regulations to be calculated or determined—

72.4.a

by such persons,

72.4.b

in accordance with such procedure, and

72.4.c

by reference to such matters and to the opinion of such persons,

as may be specified in the regulations.

72.5

Provision made by virtue of  subsection (3) (d)  for the imposition of a
financial penalty must include provision for a right of appeal against the
imposition of the penalty.

72.6

Any sum that—

72.6.a

a relevant market participant is required by virtue of revenue support
regulations to pay to a hydrogen levy administrator, and

72.6.b

has not been paid by the date on which it is required by virtue of revenue
support regulations to be paid,

may be recovered from the relevant market participant by the hydrogen levy
administrator as a civil debt due to it.

72.7

Revenue support regulations may make provision about the application of sums
held by a hydrogen levy administrator.

72.8

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (7)  includes
provision that sums are to be paid, or not to be paid, into the Consolidated
Fund.

##### Allocation of contracts

###### Power to appoint allocation bodies

73

73.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations appoint—

73.1.a

a person to carry out functions in connection with the allocation of hydrogen
production revenue support contracts;

73.1.b

a person to carry out functions in connection with the allocation of carbon
capture revenue support contracts.

73.2

The power under each paragraph of  subsection (1)  may be exercised so that
more than one appointment has effect under that paragraph at the same time.

73.3

An appointment may be made only with the consent of the person appointed
(except where that person is the Secretary of State).

73.4

An appointment ceases to have effect if—

73.4.a

the Secretary of State by regulations revokes the appointment, or

73.4.b

the person withdraws consent.

73.5

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may make provision with regard to the
cessation of an appointment, including—

73.5.a

provision requiring a person appointed under  subsection (1)  to give a period
of notice no shorter than a period specified in the regulations when
withdrawing their consent to appointment, or otherwise restricting or
subjecting to conditions a person’s power under  subsection (4)  to withdraw
consent;

73.5.b

provision enabling a person who has ceased to be appointed under  subsection
(1)  to continue to be treated as if they were so appointed, including
provision about the purposes for which, the circumstances in which, and the
period for which, such a person may be so treated.

73.6

In this Chapter—

73.6.a

a person appointed under  subsection (1) (a)  is called a “hydrogen production
allocation body”;

73.6.b

a person appointed under  subsection (1) (b)  is called a “carbon capture
allocation body”;

73.6.c

references to “allocating” a hydrogen production revenue support contract or
carbon capture revenue support contract to a person are to specifying the
person in a notification under  section 75 (1)  or  (2)  (and references to
the “ allocation ” of such a contract are to be interpreted accordingly);

73.6.d

“ allocation body ” means a hydrogen production allocation body or a carbon
capture allocation body.

73.7

Regulations under this section, other than regulations under  subsection (4)
(a) , are subject to the negative procedure.

###### Standard terms of revenue support contracts

74

74.1

The Secretary of State may issue standard terms and conditions (“standard
terms”) of—

74.1.a

hydrogen production revenue support contracts;

74.1.b

carbon capture revenue support contracts.

74.2

The Secretary of State may from time to time revise standard terms.

74.3

Standard terms issued or revised under this section must be in accordance with
provision made in revenue support regulations.

74.4

The Secretary of State must publish standard terms as issued or revised under
this section.

74.5

In publishing standard terms the Secretary of State may designate particular
standard terms as terms that may not be modified under  section 78 .

74.6

Different standard terms may be issued for different categories of hydrogen
production revenue support contract or carbon capture revenue support
contract.

###### Allocation notifications

75

75.1

A hydrogen production allocation body may, in accordance with provision made
by revenue support regulations, give a notification to a hydrogen production
counterparty specifying—

75.1.a

an eligible low carbon hydrogen producer, and

75.1.b

such other information as may be required for the purpose of making an offer
under  section 77  to contract with that low carbon hydrogen producer.

75.2

A carbon capture allocation body may, in accordance with provision made by
revenue support regulations, give a notification to a carbon capture
counterparty specifying—

75.2.a

an eligible carbon capture entity, and

75.2.b

such other information as may be required for the purpose of making an offer
under  section 77  to contract with that carbon capture entity.

75.3

A notification given under  subsection (1)  or  (2)  is called an “allocation
notification”.

75.4

Revenue support regulations may make further provision about allocation
notifications and in particular provision about—

75.4.a

the circumstances in which an allocation notification may or must be given;

75.4.b

the kinds of information that must be specified in an allocation notification
in accordance with  subsection (1) (b)  or  (2) (b) ;

75.4.c

appeals against decisions not to give allocation notifications.

###### Allocation of contracts

76

76.1

Provision that may be made in revenue support regulations for the purposes of
section 75 (1)  and  (2)  includes provision about how determinations are to
be made as regards—

76.1.a

which eligible low carbon hydrogen producer a hydrogen production revenue
support contract is to be allocated to;

76.1.b

which eligible carbon capture entity a carbon capture revenue support contract
is to be allocated to.

76.2

Provision made by revenue support regulations falling within  subsection (1)
may include—

76.2.a

provision conferring power on the Secretary of State to make rules (an
“allocation framework”) about the allocation of hydrogen production revenue
support contracts or carbon capture revenue support contracts;

76.2.b

provision for different periods within which hydrogen production revenue
support contracts or carbon capture revenue support contracts are to be
allocated (“allocation rounds”);

76.2.c

provision for different allocation frameworks to apply in respect of different
allocation rounds;

76.2.d

provision for the publication of allocation frameworks;

76.2.e

provision about matters in relation to which provision may or must be made in
an allocation framework.

76.3

Provision made by revenue support regulations falling within  subsection (2)
may impose requirements on the Secretary of State, including in particular—

76.3.a

requirements as to the giving of notice before an allocation round is
commenced;

76.3.b

restrictions on the circumstances in which amendments may be made during an
allocation round to an allocation framework or to any other matter relevant to
an allocation round (including any amount by reference to which a limit on the
contracts allocated during the round is to be determined).

76.4

An allocation framework may—

76.4.a

confer functions on an allocation body with respect to the allocation of
hydrogen production revenue support contracts or carbon capture revenue
support contracts;

76.4.b

specify targets to be met or taken into account by an allocation body in
giving allocation notifications by virtue of  section 75 , including targets
relating to—

76.4.b.i

the process used for producing hydrogen or for capturing carbon dioxide;

76.4.b.ii

outputs or capacity (whether in respect of hydrogen production or capture of
carbon dioxide);

76.4.b.iii

the geographical location of an applicant’s activities;

76.4.c

make provision by reference to standards or other published documents (as they
have effect from time to time);

76.4.d

make any provision that may be made by regulations by virtue of  subsection
(3) .

76.5

An allocation framework may include provision for—

76.5.a

the determination of a matter on a competitive basis;

76.5.b

calculations or determinations to be made under the framework, including by
such persons, in accordance with such procedure and by reference to such
matters and to the opinion of such persons, as may be specified in the
framework.

76.6

An allocation framework may—

76.6.a

include incidental, supplementary and consequential provision;

76.6.b

make transitory or transitional provision and savings;

76.6.c

make different provision for different cases or circumstances or for different
purposes;

76.6.d

make provision subject to exceptions.

76.7

Any power conferred by virtue of  subsection (2)  to make an allocation
framework includes a power to amend, add to or remove an allocation framework.

76.8

Subsections  (4)  to  (7)  are subject to any provision contained in revenue
support regulations.

###### Duty to offer to contract following allocation

77

77.1

Where an allocation notification is given to a hydrogen production
counterparty under  section 75 (1) , the counterparty must, in accordance with
provision made by revenue support regulations, offer to contract with the
eligible low carbon hydrogen producer specified in the notification on—

77.1.a

standard terms, or

77.1.b

standard terms as modified in accordance with any modification agreement
entered into between the counterparty and the eligible low carbon hydrogen
producer for the purposes of the allocation notification (see  section 78 ).

77.2

Where an allocation notification is given to a carbon capture counterparty
under  section 75 (2) , the counterparty must, in accordance with provision
made by revenue support regulations, offer to contract with the eligible
carbon capture entity specified in the notification on—

77.2.a

standard terms, or

77.2.b

standard terms as modified in accordance with any modification agreement
entered into between the counterparty and the eligible carbon capture entity
for the purposes of the allocation notification (see  section 78 ).

77.3

Revenue support regulations may make further provision about an offer to
contract made under this section, including provision about—

77.3.a

how a hydrogen production counterparty or carbon capture counterparty is to
apply or complete standard terms in relation to the offer in accordance with
information specified in an allocation notification;

77.3.b

the time within which the offer must be made;

77.3.c

how the eligible low carbon hydrogen producer or eligible carbon capture
entity to whom the offer is made may enter into a hydrogen production revenue
support contract or (as the case may be) carbon capture revenue support
contract as a result of the offer;

77.3.d

what is to happen if the eligible low carbon hydrogen producer or eligible
carbon capture entity does not enter into such a contract as a result of the
offer.

77.4

In this section, “ standard terms ”, in relation to an allocation
notification, means standard terms published under  section 74 , determined in
accordance with revenue support regulations as the standard terms that are to
apply in relation to the allocation notification.

###### Modification of standard terms

78

78.1

This section applies where a person wishes to be specified as an eligible low
carbon hydrogen producer, or an eligible carbon capture entity, in an
allocation notification (“the potential allocation notification”).

78.2

A hydrogen production counterparty or (as the case requires) carbon capture
counterparty and the person may, in accordance with provision made by revenue
support regulations, agree to modify standard terms for the purposes of any
offer that would be required under  section 77  if the potential allocation
notification is given (a “modification agreement”).

78.3

A hydrogen production counterparty or carbon capture counterparty may enter
into a modification agreement providing for the modification of any particular
standard term only if—

78.3.a

the counterparty is satisfied that—

78.3.a.i

the effect of the modification is minor, and

78.3.a.ii

the modification is necessary; and

78.3.b

the standard term has not been designated under  section 74 (5)  as a term
that may not be modified under this section.

78.4

Revenue support regulations may make further provision about modification
agreements, including—

78.4.a

the circumstances in which a person may make an application for a modification
agreement;

78.4.b

the time by which an application must be made;

78.4.c

the procedure to be followed, and the information to be given, by the person
in making an application;

78.4.d

how a hydrogen production counterparty or carbon capture counterparty is to
determine an application (including how it is to determine whether the effect
of a modification is minor and whether it is necessary);

78.4.e

the time by which determinations must be made;

78.4.f

the form of modification agreements.

78.5

Provision made by virtue of  subsection (4) (d)  may include provision under
which the counterparty may make alternative proposals for modifications in
response to an application.

78.6

In this section “ modify ” includes add to, alter or omit, and “modification”
is to be read accordingly.

###### Sections 

79

Provision made by regulations by virtue of any of sections  75  to  78  may
include provision for—

79.a

the determination of a matter on a competitive basis;

79.b

calculations or determinations to be made under the regulations, including by
such persons, in accordance with such procedure and by reference to such
matters and to the opinion of such persons, as may be specified in the
regulations.

###### Licence conditions regarding functions of certain allocation bodies

80

80.1

In section 7B of the Gas Act 1986, after subsection (5) insert—

80.1.5ZA

Without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (a) of subsection (4),
conditions for or in connection with the purpose set out in  subsection (5ZB)
may be included in a licence under section 7AA by virtue of that paragraph.

80.1.5ZB

The purpose is to facilitate or ensure the effective performance (whether in
relation to Northern Ireland or any other part of the United Kingdom), at
relevant times, of functions of a hydrogen production allocation body under
Chapter 1  of   Part 2  of the Energy Act 2023.

80.1.5ZC

In  subsection (5ZB)  “ relevant times ” means times when the hydrogen
production allocation body holds a licence under section 7AA.

80.2

Where—

80.2.a

the GEMA proposes by a modification under section 23 of the Gas Act 1986 of a
licence under section 7AA of that Act to add, remove or alter a condition such
as is mentioned in section 7B (5ZA)  of that Act, and

80.2.b

that condition relates to functions of a hydrogen production allocation body
that are exercisable in relation to Northern Ireland,

section 23 of that Act has effect as if the persons listed in subsection
(4)(b) of that section included the Department for the Economy in Northern
Ireland.

##### General provision about counterparties

###### Further provision about designations

81

81.1

A designation under  section 59 ,  61 ,  63 ,  65 , or  67  ceases to have
effect if—

81.1.a

the Secretary of State revokes the designation by notice given to the person
designated (in which case the designation ends on the date specified in the
notice), or

81.1.b

the person withdraws consent to the designation by giving not less than 3
months’ notice in writing to the Secretary of State.

81.2

At any time after the first designation under section  59 ,  61 ,  63 ,  65
or  67  has effect, the Secretary of State must, except where the Secretary of
State considers it unnecessary or not reasonably practicable to do so,
exercise the power to designate so as to ensure that at least one designation
has effect under that section.

81.3

The Secretary of State must publish a notice given to a person under—

81.3.a

section  59 (1) ,  61 (1) ,  63 (1) ,  65 (1)  or  67 (1) , or

81.3.b

subsection (1) (a) .

81.4

Revenue support regulations may make provision enabling a person who has
ceased to be a carbon dioxide transport and storage counterparty, hydrogen
transport counterparty, hydrogen storage counterparty, hydrogen production
counterparty or carbon capture counterparty to continue to be treated as such
a counterparty, including provision about the circumstances in which, and the
period for which, such a person may be so treated.

###### Application of sums held by a revenue support counterparty

82

82.1

Revenue support regulations may make provision for apportioning sums—

82.1.a

received by a revenue support counterparty from a hydrogen levy administrator
under provision made by virtue of  section 70 , or

82.1.b

received by a revenue support counterparty under a revenue support contract,

in circumstances where the revenue support counterparty is unable to fully
meet its liabilities under a revenue support contract.

82.2

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (1)  includes
provision about the meaning of “unable to fully meet its liabilities under a
revenue support contract”.

82.3

In making provision by virtue of  subsection (1) , the Secretary of State must
have regard to the principle that sums should be apportioned in proportion to
the amounts that are owed.

82.4

Revenue support regulations may make provision about the application of sums
held by a revenue support counterparty.

82.5

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (4)  includes
provision that sums are to be paid, or not to be paid, into the Consolidated
Fund.

##### Information and advice

###### Information and advice

83

83.1

Revenue support regulations may make provision about the provision and
publication of information and advice.

83.2

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (1)  includes
provision—

83.2.a

for the Secretary of State to require a revenue support counterparty, to
provide advice to the Secretary of State or any other person, or persons of
any description, specified in the regulations;

83.2.b

for the Secretary of State to require any party to a revenue support contract
to provide information to the Secretary of State or any other person, or
persons of any description, specified in the regulations;

83.2.c

for the Secretary of State to require any of the following to provide
information or advice to the Secretary of State or any other person, or
persons of any description, specified in the regulations—

83.2.c.i

a hydrogen levy administrator;

83.2.c.ii

an allocation body;

83.2.c.iii

the GEMA;

83.2.c.iv

any other person or description of persons specified in the regulations;

83.2.d

for a revenue support counterparty to require a person specified, or of a
description specified, in the regulations to provide information to it;

83.2.e

for a hydrogen levy administrator to require—

83.2.e.i

a revenue support counterparty,

83.2.e.ii

an allocation body,

83.2.e.iii

a relevant market participant, or

83.2.e.iv

any other person or description of persons specified in the regulations,

to provide information to it;

83.2.f

for an allocation body to require any party to a hydrogen production revenue
support contract or carbon capture revenue support contract to provide
information to it;

83.2.g

for the classification and protection of confidential or sensitive
information;

83.2.h

for the enforcement of any requirement imposed by virtue of  paragraphs (a)
to  (g) .

83.3

The prohibition on disclosure of information by—

83.3.a

section 105(1) of the Utilities Act 2000;

83.3.b

Article 63(1) of the Energy (Northern Ireland) Order 2003 ( S.I. 2003/419
(N.I. 6)) ;

does not apply to a disclosure required by virtue of this section.

##### Enforcement

###### Enforcement

84

84.1

Revenue support regulations may make provision—

84.1.a

for requirements imposed under the regulations on a GB gas shipper to be
enforceable by the GEMA as if they were relevant requirements within the
meaning of sections 28 to 30O of that Act;

84.1.b

for requirements imposed under the regulations on a person who holds a licence
under Article 8(1)(c) of the Gas (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 ( S.I. 1996/275
(N.I. 2))  to be enforceable by the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility
Regulation as if they were relevant requirements within the meaning of Part 6
of the Energy (Northern Ireland) Order 2003 ( S.I. 2003/419 (N.I. 6)) .

84.2

References in subsection  (1)  to enforcement include enforcement under the
terms of a licence mentioned in any of paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of that
subsection.

84.3

Revenue support regulations may make provision for special allocation body
requirements (or a subset of such requirements) to be enforceable by the GEMA
as if they were relevant requirements within the meaning of sections 28 to 30O
of the Gas Act 1986.

84.4

In this section “ special allocation body requirements ” means requirements
imposed by or under revenue support regulations or regulations under  section
73  on a hydrogen production allocation body, so far as the requirements
relate to times when the body holds a licence under section 7AA of the Gas Act
1986 (including requirements in respect of functions of the body that relate
to Northern Ireland).

##### Consultation

###### Consultation

85

85.1

Before making revenue support regulations the Secretary of State must—

85.1.a

consult the persons mentioned in  subsection (2) , and

85.1.b

specify a period of not less than 28 days for the purposes of subsection  (3)
.

85.2

The persons to be consulted under subsection  (1)  are—

85.2.a

the Scottish Ministers, if the regulations contain provision that would be
within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if it were
contained in an Act of that Parliament;

85.2.b

the Welsh Ministers, if the regulations contain provision that would be within
the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it were contained in an Act of
the Senedd (ignoring any requirement for the consent of a Minister of the
Crown imposed under Schedule 7B to the Government of Wales Act 2006);

85.2.c

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, if the regulations contain
provision that—

85.2.c.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
it were contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

85.2.c.ii

would not, if it were contained in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State under
section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998;

85.2.d

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

85.3

The Secretary of State must consider any representations that are—

85.3.a

duly made within the period specified under subsection  (1) (b)  by persons
consulted under  subsection (1) , and

85.3.b

not withdrawn.

85.4

Before making regulations under  section 73 (1)  (power to appoint allocation
bodies) the Secretary of State must consult—

85.4.a

the Scottish Ministers, if the regulations contain provision that would be
within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if it were
contained in an Act of that Parliament;

85.4.b

the Welsh Ministers, if the regulations contain provision that would be within
the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it were contained in an Act of
the Senedd (ignoring any requirement for the consent of a Minister of the
Crown imposed under Schedule 7B to the Government of Wales Act 2006);

85.4.c

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, if the regulations contain
provision that—

85.4.c.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
it were contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

85.4.c.ii

would not, if it were contained in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State under
section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998,

and the Secretary of State must consider any representations duly made by
persons consulted under this subsection and not withdrawn.

85.5

Before publishing standard terms under  section 74  the Secretary of State
must—

85.5.a

consult the persons mentioned in  subsection (6) , and

85.5.b

specify a period of not less than 28 days for the purposes of subsection  (7)
.

85.6

The persons to be consulted under subsection  (5)  are—

85.6.a

the Scottish Ministers, if the standard terms contain provision that would be
within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if it were
contained in an Act of that Parliament;

85.6.b

the Welsh Ministers, if the standard terms contain provision that would be
within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it were contained in an
Act of the Senedd (ignoring any requirement for the consent of a Minister of
the Crown imposed under Schedule 7B to the Government of Wales Act 2006);

85.6.c

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, if the standard terms
contain provision that—

85.6.c.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
it were contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

85.6.c.ii

would not, if it were contained in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State under
section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998;

85.6.d

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

85.7

The Secretary of State must consider any representations that are—

85.7.a

duly made within the period specified under subsection  (5) (b)  by persons
consulted under subsection  (5) , and

85.7.b

not withdrawn.

85.8

A requirement under this section to consult may be satisfied by consultation
before, as well as consultation after, the passing of this Act.

##### Transfer schemes

###### Transfer schemes

86

86.1

The Secretary of State may make—

86.1.a

one or more schemes for the transfer of designated property, rights or
liabilities of a person who has ceased to be a revenue support counterparty to
a person who is a revenue support counterparty;

86.1.b

one or more schemes for the transfer of designated property, rights or
liabilities of a person who has ceased to be a hydrogen levy administrator to
a person who is a hydrogen levy administrator;

86.1.c

one or more schemes for the transfer of designated property, rights or
liabilities of a person who has ceased to be a hydrogen levy administrator to
the Secretary of State;

86.1.d

one or more schemes for the transfer of designated property, rights or
liabilities of a person who has ceased to be an allocation body to a person
who is an allocation body.

86.2

In this section—

      “ transferee ” means—         in a case within  subsection (1) (a) , the
person who is a revenue support counterparty;           in a case within
subsection (1) (b) , the person who is a hydrogen levy administrator;
in a case within  subsection (1) (c) , the Secretary of State;           in a
case within  subsection (1) (d) , the person who is an allocation body;
“ transferor ” means the person who has ceased to be a revenue support
counterparty, a hydrogen levy administrator or an allocation body (as the case
may be).

86.3

On the transfer date, the designated property, rights and liabilities are
transferred and vest in accordance with the scheme.

86.4

The rights and liabilities that may be transferred by a scheme include those
arising under or in connection with a contract of employment.

86.5

A certificate by the Secretary of State that anything specified in the
certificate has vested in any person by virtue of a scheme is conclusive
evidence for all purposes of that fact.

86.6

A scheme may make provision—

86.6.a

for anything done by or in relation to the transferor in connection with any
property, rights or liabilities transferred by the scheme to be treated as
done, or to be continued, by or in relation to the transferee;

86.6.b

for references to the transferor in any agreement (whether written or not),
instrument or other document relating to any property, rights or liabilities
transferred by the scheme to be treated as references to the transferee;

86.6.c

about the continuation of legal proceedings;

86.6.d

for transferring property, rights or liabilities that could not otherwise be
transferred or assigned;

86.6.e

for transferring property, rights and liabilities irrespective of any
requirement for consent that would otherwise apply;

86.6.f

for preventing a right of pre-emption, right of reverter, right of forfeiture,
right to compensation or other similar right from arising or becoming
exercisable as a result of the transfer of property, rights or liabilities;

86.6.g

for dispensing with any formality in relation to the transfer of property,
rights or liabilities by the scheme;

86.6.h

for transferring property acquired, or rights or liabilities arising, after
the scheme is made but before it takes effect;

86.6.i

for apportioning property, rights or liabilities;

86.6.j

for creating rights, or imposing liabilities, in connection with property,
rights or liabilities transferred by the scheme;

86.6.k

for requiring the transferee to enter into any agreement of any kind, or for a
purpose, specified in or determined in accordance with the scheme.

86.7

Subsection  (6) (b)  does not apply to references in—

86.7.a

primary legislation, or

86.7.b

an instrument made under primary legislation.

86.8

A scheme may contain provision for the payment of compensation by the
Secretary of State to any person whose interests are adversely affected by it.

86.9

A transfer scheme may—

86.9.a

include incidental, supplementary or consequential provision;

86.9.b

make transitory or transitional provision or savings;

86.9.c

make different provision for different cases or circumstances or for different
purposes;

86.9.d

make provision subject to exceptions.

86.10

In this section—

      “ designated ”, in relation to a scheme, means specified in or
determined in accordance with the scheme;           “ primary legislation ”
means—         an Act of Parliament,           an Act of the Scottish
Parliament,           an Act or Measure of Senedd Cymru, or           Northern
Ireland legislation;                 “ property ” includes interests of any
description;           “ the transfer date ” means a date specified by a
scheme as the date on which the scheme is to have effect.

###### Modification of transfer schemes

87

87.1

The Secretary of State may modify a transfer scheme made under  section 86 ,
subject to  subsection (2) .

87.2

If a transfer under the scheme has taken effect, any modification under
subsection (1)  that relates to the transfer may be made only with the
agreement of the transferor or transferee affected by the modification (or,
where both the transferor and transferee are affected, with the agreement of
both of them).

87.3

A modification takes effect from such date as the Secretary of State may
specify (which may be the date when the original scheme came into effect).

87.4

In this section “ transferor ” and “ transferee ” have the same meaning as in
section 86 .

##### General

###### Shadow directors, etc

88

88.1

The Secretary of State is not, by virtue of the exercise of a power conferred
by or by virtue of this Chapter, to be regarded as—

88.1.a

a person occupying the position of director in relation to a  Chapter 1
entity;

88.1.b

a person in accordance with whose directions or instructions the directors of
a  Chapter 1  entity are accustomed to act;

88.1.c

a person in accordance with whose directions or instructions the members of a
Chapter 1 entity which is a limited liability partnership are accustomed to
act;

88.1.d

exercising any function of management in a  Chapter 1  entity;

88.1.e

a principal of a  Chapter 1  entity.

88.2

An allocation body is not, by virtue of the exercise of a power conferred by
or by virtue of this Chapter, to be regarded as—

88.2.a

a person occupying the position of director in relation to a revenue support
counterparty;

88.2.b

a person in accordance with whose directions or instructions the directors of
a revenue support counterparty are accustomed to act;

88.2.c

a person in accordance with whose directions or instructions the members of a
revenue support counterparty which is a limited liability partnership are
accustomed to act;

88.2.d

exercising any function of management in a revenue support counterparty;

88.2.e

a principal of a revenue support counterparty.

88.3

In this section “ Chapter 1  entity” means the following—

88.3.a

a revenue support counterparty;

88.3.b

a hydrogen levy administrator;

88.3.c

an allocation body.

###### Modifications of licences etc for purposes related to levy obligations

89

89.1

The Secretary of State may modify—

89.1.a

a condition of a particular licence under section 7   or 7AC  of the Gas Act
1986 (licensing of gas transporters  or code manager licence );

89.1.b

the standard conditions incorporated in licences under section 7 of the Gas
Act 1986 by virtue of section 8 of that Act;

89.1.c

a document maintained in accordance with the conditions of licences under
section 7   or 7AC  of the Gas Act 1986, or an agreement that gives effect to
a document so maintained.

89.2

The Secretary of State may modify—

89.2.a

a condition of a particular licence under Article 8(1)(a) of the Gas (Northern
Ireland) Order 1996 ( S.I. 1996/275 (N.I. 2))  (licences to convey gas);

89.2.b

the standard conditions of licences under Article 8(1)(a) of that Order;

89.2.c

a document maintained in accordance with the conditions of licences under
Article 8(1)(a) of that Order, or an agreement that gives effect to a document
so maintained.

89.3

The powers conferred by subsections  (1)  and  (2)  may be exercised only for
the purpose of facilitating or supporting enforcement of, and administration
in connection with, obligations under regulations within  section 70
(including facilitation and support by way of allowing or requiring the
provision of services).

89.4

Provision included in a licence, or in a document or agreement relating to
licences, by virtue of any power under subsection  (1)  or  (2)  may in
particular include provision of a kind that may be included in revenue support
regulations.

89.5

Provision included in a licence, or in a document or agreement relating to
licences, by virtue of a power conferred by this section may do anything
authorised for licences of that type by—

89.5.a

section 7B(5)(a), (6) or (7) of the Gas Act 1986, or

89.5.b

Article 10(3)(a) to (d), (4), (5) or (6A) of the Gas (Northern Ireland) Order
1996 ( S.I. 1996/275 (N.I. 2)) .

89.6

For the purposes of  subsection (5) (b) , the provisions referred to in that
paragraph are to be read as if references to the Northern Ireland Authority
for Utility Regulation included the Secretary of State.

89.7

If under subsection  (1)  the Secretary of State makes modifications of the
standard conditions of a licence, the GEMA must—

89.7.a

make the same modification of those standard conditions for the purposes of
their incorporation in licences of that type granted after that time, and

89.7.b

publish the modification.

89.8

If under subsection  (2)  the Secretary of State makes modifications of the
standard conditions of a licence, the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility
Regulation must—

89.8.a

make the same modification of those standard conditions for the purposes of
their incorporation in licences of that type granted after that time, and

89.8.b

publish the modification.

89.9

Before making a modification under this section, the Secretary of State must
consult—

89.9.a

the holder of any licence being modified, and

89.9.b

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers it appropriate to
consult.

89.10

Subsection  (9)  may be satisfied by consultation before, as well as by
consultation after, the passing of this Act.

###### Electricity system operator and gas system planner licences: modifications

90

90.1

The Secretary of State may, for the purpose of facilitating or ensuring the
effective performance of functions specified in subsection (3), modify—

90.1.a

the conditions of a licence under section 6(1)(da) of the Electricity Act 1989
(electricity system operator licence);

90.1.b

a document maintained in accordance with the conditions of such a licence, or
an agreement that gives effect to a document so maintained.

90.2

The Secretary of State may, for the purpose of facilitating or ensuring the
effective performance of functions specified in subsection (3), modify—

90.2.a

the conditions of a licence under section 7AA of the Gas Act 1986 (gas system
planner licence);

90.2.b

a document maintained in accordance with the conditions of such a licence, or
an agreement that gives effect to a document so maintained.

90.3

The functions referred to in subsections (1) and (2) are—

90.3.a

functions of hydrogen production allocation bodies, and

90.3.b

other functions under this Chapter which are related to such functions.

90.4

Modifications under subsections (1) and (2) may only make provision in
relation to times when the person holding the licence is a hydrogen production
allocation body.

90.5

The provision referred to in subsection (4) includes consequential or
transitional provision in relation to times when it is no longer the case that
the person holding the licence is a hydrogen production allocation body.

90.6

Provision included in a licence, or in a document or agreement relating to
licences, by virtue of a power under this section may in particular—

90.6.a

include provision of any kind that may be included in revenue support
regulations or regulations under  section 73 ;

90.6.b

do any of the things authorised for licences of that type by—

90.6.b.i

section 7B(5)(a), (5ZA), (6) or (7) of the Gas Act 1986, or

90.6.b.ii

section 7(3), (4), (5) or (6A) of the Electricity Act 1989.

90.7

Before making a modification under this section the Secretary of State must
consult—

90.7.a

the holder of any licence being modified;

90.7.b

the GEMA;

90.7.c

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers it appropriate to
consult.

90.8

Subsection (7) may be satisfied by consultation before, as well as by
consultation after, the passing of this Act.

###### Sections 89 and 90: supplementary

91

91.1

In this section “ relevant power ” means a power conferred by—

91.1.a

subsection  (1)  or  (2)  of  section 89 , or

91.1.b

section 90 .

91.2

Before making modifications under a relevant power, the Secretary of State
must lay a draft of the modifications before Parliament.

91.3

If, within the 40-day period, either House of Parliament resolves not to
approve the draft, the Secretary of State may not take any further steps in
relation to the proposed modifications.

91.4

If no such resolution is made within that period, the Secretary of State may
make the modifications in the form of the draft.

91.5

Subsection  (3)  does not prevent a new draft of proposed modifications being
laid before Parliament.

91.6

In this section “ 40-day period ”, in relation to a draft of proposed
modifications, means the period of 40 days beginning with the day on which the
draft is laid before Parliament (or, if it is not laid before each House of
Parliament on the same day, the later of the 2 days on which it is laid).

91.7

For the purposes of calculating the 40-day period, no account is to be taken
of any period during which Parliament is dissolved or prorogued or during
which both Houses are adjourned for more than 4 days.

91.8

A relevant power—

91.8.a

may be exercised generally, only in relation to specified cases or subject to
exceptions (including provision for a case to be excepted only so long as
specified conditions are satisfied);

91.8.b

may be exercised differently in different cases or circumstances;

91.8.c

includes a power to make incidental, supplementary, consequential or
transitional modifications.

91.9

Provision included in a licence, or in a document or agreement relating to
licences, by virtue of a relevant power—

91.9.a

may make different provision for different cases;

91.9.b

need not relate to the activities authorised by the licence.

91.10

The Secretary of State must publish details of any modifications made under a
relevant power as soon as reasonably practicable after they are made.

91.11

A modification made under a relevant power of part of a standard condition of
a licence does not prevent any other part of the condition from continuing to
be regarded as a standard condition for the purposes of Part 1 of the Gas Act
1986 or the Gas (Northern Ireland) Order 1996.

91.12

The power conferred by a relevant power to “ modify ” (in relation to licence
conditions or a document) includes a power to amend, add to or remove, and
references to modifications are to be construed accordingly.

91.13

In section 81 of the Utilities Act 2000 (standard conditions of gas licences),
in subsection (2), after “Energy Prices Act 2022” insert  “or under  section
89  or sections  245  to  247  of the Energy Act 2023” .

#### Decommissioning of carbon storage installations

##### Financing of costs of decommissioning etc

###### Financing of costs of decommissioning etc

92

92.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for requiring
relevant persons to provide security for the performance of obligations
relating to the future abandonment or decommissioning of carbon dioxide-
related sites, pipelines or installations.

92.2

For the purposes of  subsection (1)  an installation, site or pipeline is
“carbon dioxide-related” if it is, or is to be, used for a purpose related to
the geological storage, or transportation, of carbon dioxide.

92.3

In this section references to an installation, site or pipeline include one
that is located in, under or over—

92.3.a

the territorial sea adjacent to the United Kingdom, or

92.3.b

waters in a Gas Importation and Storage Zone (within the meaning given by
section 1 of the Energy Act 2008).

92.4

The following provisions of this section are without prejudice to the
generality of  subsection (1) .

92.5

In this section “ relevant person ” means a person who—

92.5.a

holds a licence under  section 7 , or

92.5.b

is a person to whom a notice has been, or may be, given under section 29 of
the Petroleum Act 1998 (preparation of abandonment programmes) in respect of a
carbon storage installation.

92.6

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may—

92.6.a

require relevant persons to provide the Secretary of State with estimates of
costs that are likely to be incurred in connection with obligations such as
are mentioned in subsection (1) (“decommissioning costs”);

92.6.b

make provision about the estimation of decommissioning costs and about the
manner in which such estimates are to be verified (which may include provision
requiring verification by an independent third party);

92.6.c

require relevant persons to review estimates of decommissioning costs at
times, or at intervals, specified in the regulations;

92.6.d

make provision about the approval by the Secretary of State of estimates of
such costs;

92.6.e

provide for information specified, or of a description specified, in the
regulations to be supplied to the Secretary of State by relevant persons at
such intervals, or on such occasions, as may be prescribed by the regulations;

92.6.f

require the Secretary of State to consult the Oil and Gas Authority or any
other person specified in the regulations before exercising functions by
virtue of  paragraph (d) .

92.7

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may make provision—

92.7.a

requiring that security for the discharge of liabilities in respect of
decommissioning costs must be provided by way of a fund (a “decommissioning
fund”);

92.7.b

about the management of decommissioning funds;

92.7.c

about payments to a relevant person, or another person, from such funds;

92.7.d

providing for payments from such funds to be subject to the approval of the
Secretary of State;

92.7.e

imposing on a relevant authority functions with regard to—

92.7.e.i

the monitoring and oversight of decommissioning funds;

92.7.e.ii

the approval of any matter relating to such a fund.

92.8

This section is without prejudice to the breadth of subsection (4) of section
30 of the Energy Act 2008.

92.9

Regulations under subsection (1) may require the Secretary of State to publish
guidance about—

92.9.a

estimates of decommissioning costs (including factors which it may be
appropriate to consider in deciding whether or not to approve estimates of
such costs);

92.9.b

the structure, accrual and management of decommissioning funds.

92.10

Guidance by virtue of this section may make different provision for different
cases or circumstances.

92.11

In this section—

      “ carbon storage installation ” has the same meaning as in section 30 of
the Energy Act 2008;           “ decommissioning costs ” is to be interpreted
in accordance with subsection  (6) (a) ;           “ decommissioning fund ” is
to be interpreted in accordance with subsection  (7) (a) ;           “
economic regulator ” has the same meaning as in  Part 1  (see  section 55 );
“ geological storage ” has the same meaning as in  Part 1  (see  section 55 );
“ relevant authority ” means the Secretary of State, the economic regulator or
the Oil and Gas Authority.

###### Section 

93

93.1

Regulations under  section 92 (1)  may make provision—

93.1.a

enabling a relevant authority to charge fees to relevant persons in order to
cover the costs of the exercise of the authority’s functions under the
regulations;

93.1.b

about how fees payable by virtue of the regulations are to be determined;

93.1.c

about when fees payable by virtue of the regulations are to be paid.

93.2

Regulations under  section 92 (1)  may make provision about the supplying of
information, including—

93.2.a

provision for the Secretary of State to require any other person to supply
information to the Secretary of State for the purposes of the Secretary of
State’s functions under regulations under that section;

93.2.b

about the sharing by the Secretary of State with the Oil and Gas Authority or
the economic regulator of information about funds established as mentioned in
section 92 (7) (a) .

93.3

Regulations under  section 92 (1)  may make provision about compliance with
requirements imposed by or under the regulations, including—

93.3.a

provision imposing civil penalties;

93.3.b

provision making it an offence to contravene specified provisions of the
regulations.

93.4

Where regulations under  section 92 (1)  provide for the imposition of a civil
penalty, they must also provide for a right of appeal against the imposition
of the penalty.

93.5

Where regulations under  section 92 (1)  create an offence, they must also
make provision as to the mode of trial and punishment of offences, but—

93.5.a

any provision as to punishment on summary conviction must not authorise
imprisonment or, in the case of summary conviction in Scotland or Northern
Ireland, a fine exceeding the statutory maximum;

93.5.b

any provision as to punishment on conviction on indictment must not authorise
imprisonment for a term exceeding 2 years.

93.6

Regulations under  section 92 (1)  may—

93.6.a

make different provision for different purposes;

93.6.b

create exceptions to any requirement imposed by the regulations.

93.7

Regulations under  section 92 (1)  may confer any function on any person.

93.8

Regulations under  section 92 (1)  may provide for a function conferred on a
person to be exercisable on that person’s behalf by another person.

93.9

In this section—

      “ economic regulator ” has the same meaning as in  Part 1  (see  section
55 );           “ relevant authority ” means the Secretary of State, the
economic regulator or the Oil and Gas Authority;           “ relevant person ”
has the same meaning as in  section 92 .

93.10

Regulations under  section 92 (1)  may make any amendments of—

93.10.a

the Storage of Carbon Dioxide (Licensing etc.) Regulations 2010 ( S.I.
2010/2221 ),

93.10.b

the Storage of Carbon Dioxide (Licensing etc.) (Scotland) Regulations 2011 (
S.S.I. 2011/24 ),

93.10.c

the Storage of Carbon Dioxide (Termination of Licences) Regulations 2011 (
S.I. 2011/1483 ), or

93.10.d

the Storage of Carbon Dioxide (Licensing etc.) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2015 ( S.R. (N.I.) 2015 No. 387 ),

that the Secretary of State considers appropriate in consequence of, or of
provision made under,  section 92  or this section.

93.11

Regulations under  section 92 (1)  containing any of the following (with or
without other provision) are subject to the affirmative procedure—

93.11.a

provision creating a criminal offence;

93.11.b

provision creating a civil penalty.

93.12

Any other regulations under  section 92 (1)  are subject to the negative
procedure.

###### Regulations under 

94

94.1

Before making regulations under  section 92 (1)  that contain provision within
devolved competence, the Secretary of State must give notice to each relevant
devolved authority—

94.1.a

stating that the Secretary of State proposes to make regulations under
section 92 (1) , and

94.1.b

specifying the period (of not less than 28 days from the date on which the
notice is given) within which representations may be made with respect to the
provision within the relevant devolved competence,

and must consider any representations duly made and not withdrawn.

94.2

In this section, “ relevant devolved authority ”, in relation to regulations,
means—

94.2.a

the Scottish Ministers, if the regulations contain provision within Scottish
devolved competence;

94.2.b

the Welsh Ministers, if the regulations contain provision within Welsh
devolved competence;

94.2.c

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, if the regulations contain
provision within Northern Ireland devolved competence;

and “ the relevant devolved competence ”, in relation to a relevant devolved
authority, is to be construed accordingly.

94.3

For the purposes of this section, provision—

94.3.a

is within Scottish devolved competence if it would be within the legislative
competence of the Scottish Parliament if it were contained in an Act of that
Parliament;

94.3.b

is within Welsh devolved competence if it would be within the legislative
competence of Senedd Cymru if it were contained in an Act of the Senedd
(ignoring any requirement for the consent of a Minister of the Crown imposed
under Schedule 7B to the Government of Wales Act 2006);

94.3.c

is within Northern Ireland devolved competence if it—

94.3.c.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
it were contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

94.3.c.ii

would not, if it were contained in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State under
section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998;

and references to provision being within devolved competence are to provision
that is within Scottish, Welsh or Northern Ireland devolved competence.

##### Abandonment of carbon storage installations etc

###### Provisions relating to Part 4 of the Petroleum Act 1998

95

95.1

Section 30 of the Energy Act 2008 (abandonment of installations) is amended in
accordance with subsections  (2)  to  (6) .

95.2

In subsection (1), for “, (2)” substitute  “to (2)” .

95.3

After subsection (1A) insert—

95.3.1AA

Part 4 of the 1998 Act, in its application in relation to carbon storage
installations, has effect with the modifications set out in  subsection (1AB)
.

95.3.1AB

The modifications are as follows—

95.3.1AB.a

in section 30 of the 1998 Act, for subsections (5) and (6) substitute—

95.3.1AB.a.5

This subsection applies to a person in relation to a carbon storage
installation if—

95.3.1AB.a.5.a

the person has the right—

95.3.1AB.a.5.a.i

to use a controlled place for the storage of carbon dioxide (with a view to
its permanent disposal, or as an interim measure prior to its permanent
disposal),

95.3.1AB.a.5.a.ii

to convert any natural feature in a controlled place for the purpose of
storing carbon dioxide (with a view to its permanent disposal, or as an
interim measure prior to its permanent disposal), or

95.3.1AB.a.5.a.iii

to explore a controlled place with a view to, or in connection with, the
carrying on of the activities within  sub-paragraph (i)  or  (ii) , and

95.3.1AB.a.5.b

either—

95.3.1AB.a.5.b.i

any activity mentioned in  subsection (6)  is carried on from, by means of or
on the installation, or

95.3.1AB.a.5.b.ii

the person intends to carry on an activity mentioned in that subsection from,
by means of or on the installation,

or if the person had such a right when any such activity was last so carried
on.

95.3.1AB.a.6

The activities referred to in  subsection (5)  are—

95.3.1AB.a.6.a

the use of a controlled place for the storage of carbon dioxide (with a view
to its permanent disposal, or as an interim measure prior to its permanent
disposal) in the exercise of the right mentioned in  subsection (5) (a) ;

95.3.1AB.a.6.b

the conversion of any natural feature in a controlled place for the purpose of
storing carbon dioxide (with a view to its permanent disposal, or as an
interim measure prior to its permanent disposal) in the exercise of the right
mentioned in  subsection (5) (a) ;

95.3.1AB.a.6.c

the exploration of a controlled place in the exercise of the right mentioned
in  subsection (5) (a)  with a view to, or in connection with, the carrying on
of activities within  paragraph (a)  or  (b)  of this subsection;

95.3.1AB.a.6.d

the conveyance in the controlled place mentioned in  subsection (5) (a)  of
carbon dioxide by means of a pipe or system of pipes, in the exercise of the
right mentioned in  subsection (5) (a) ; and

95.3.1AB.a.6.e

the provision of accommodation for persons who work on or from an installation
which is or has been maintained, or is intended to be established, for the
carrying on of an activity falling within any of paragraphs  (a)  to  (d)  of
this subsection.

;

95.3.1AB.b

in section 30(7) of that Act, in the words before paragraph (a), for “(c)”
substitute  “(e)” ;

95.3.1AB.c

in section 31 of that Act, for subsection (B1) substitute—

95.3.1AB.c.B1

This subsection applies to an activity if—

95.3.1AB.c.B1.a

where the activity is within  paragraph (a) ,  (b)  or  (c)  of section 30(6),
the controlled place mentioned in that paragraph is one for which the
installation is, or is to be, established or maintained;

95.3.1AB.c.B1.b

where the activity is within  paragraph (d)  of section 30(6), the conveyance
of the carbon dioxide relates to a controlled place for which the installation
is, or is to be, established;

95.3.1AB.c.B1.c

where the activity is within  paragraph (e)  of section 30(6), the
installation is in a controlled place in respect of which P has a licence
under section 18 of the Energy Act 2008.

;

95.3.1AB.d

in section 31 of that Act, omit subsection (C1);

95.3.1AB.e

in section 45 of that Act, in the appropriate place insert—

      “ controlled place ” has the same meaning as in section 17 of the Energy
Act 2008;

.

95.4

After subsection (4A) insert—

95.4.4B

The powers in subsections (2)(b) and (4) include power to amend or repeal
subsections (1AA) and (1AB).

95.5

In subsection (5), for the words from “falling” to the end substitute  “which
is or has been maintained, or is intended to be established, for the purposes
of an activity mentioned in section 17(2)(a), (b) or (c) to which subsection
(6) applies.”

95.6

In subsection (6), for the words from the beginning to “it” substitute  “This
subsection applies to any activity which is carried on from, by means of or on
an installation which” .

95.7

The power of the Scottish Ministers under section 30(2)(b) of the Energy Act
2008 to modify Part 4 of the Petroleum Act 1998 in its application to certain
carbon storage installations includes power to make any modifications of that
Part of that Act (in its application to the installations in question) that
the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate in consequence of provision made
by or under section  92  or  93 .

95.8

The power of the Secretary of State under section 30(4) of the Energy Act 2008
to modify Part 4 of the Petroleum Act 1998 in its application to certain
carbon storage installations includes power to make any modifications of that
Part of that Act (in its application to the installations in question) that
the Secretary considers appropriate in consequence of provision made by or
under section  92  or  93 .

95.9

In section 29 of the Petroleum Act 1998 (preparation of programmes), in
subsection (6), for the words from “in question,” to the end substitute  “in
question if the Secretary of State has under section 32—

95.9.a

rejected that programme, or

95.9.b

approved it (whether or not the approval has been withdrawn).”

95.10

Section 38A of the Petroleum Act 1998 (protection of funds set aside for the
purposes of abandonment programme) has effect as if the reference in
subsection (1) of that section to the performance of obligations under an
approved abandonment programme included a reference to the meeting of
liabilities in respect of decommissioning costs in relation to carbon storage
installations.

95.11

In this section—

      “ carbon storage installation ” has the same meaning as in section 30 of
the Energy Act 2008;           “ decommissioning costs ” has the meaning given
by  section 92 .

##### Change of use relief

###### Change of use relief: installations

96

96.1

Section 30A of the Energy Act 2008 (installations converted for CCS
demonstration projects) is amended as follows.

96.2

For the heading substitute  “Change of use relief for certain installations” .

96.3

In subsection (1), for “by order” insert  “, on an application made by a
relevant person, by notice” .

96.4

Omit subsections (2) and (3).

96.5

Before subsection (4) insert—

96.5.3A

The Secretary of State must consult the Oil and Gas Authority before deciding—

96.5.3A.a

whether to designate an installation under subsection (1);

96.5.3A.b

whether to make a certification under subsection (5)(b).

96.6

For subsection (4) substitute—

96.6.4

An eligible CCS installation qualifies for change of use relief if—

96.6.4.a

the Secretary of State has given a CCS-related abandonment programme notice to
a person in relation to the abandonment of the installation, and

96.6.4.b

the trigger event has occurred in relation to the installation.

96.6.4A

In subsection (4) “ CCS-related abandonment programme notice ” means an
abandonment programme notice given under section 29 of the 1998 Act in that
section’s application in relation to carbon storage installations (by virtue
of section 30 of this Act).

96.7

For subsection (5) substitute—

96.7.5

The trigger event occurs in relation to an eligible CCS installation when—

96.7.5.a

a decommissioning fund (as defined in section  92 (7)  of the Energy Act 2023)
has been established for providing security for the discharge of liabilities
in respect of decommissioning costs in relation to the installation, and

96.7.5.b

the Secretary of State certifies by notice in writing (an “approval notice”)
that one or more relevant persons have paid into the fund an amount or amounts
the total of which is not less than the required amount.

96.7.5A

In  subsection (5) —

96.7.5A.a

“ relevant person ” means a person of a description specified in regulations
made by the Secretary of State;

96.7.5A.b

“ the required amount ” means an amount determined by the Secretary of State
in accordance with regulations made by the Secretary of State.

96.7.5B

Where the Secretary of State gives an approval notice in relation to an
eligible CCS installation the Secretary of State must—

96.7.5B.a

give a copy of the approval notice to every person to whom a notice has been
given under section 29(1) of the 1998 Act in relation to the installation, and

96.7.5B.b

publish a notice that—

96.7.5B.b.i

specifies the installation, and

96.7.5B.b.ii

states that the Secretary of State has given an approval notice under
subsection (5)(b) in relation to it.

96.8

In subsection (11), for “an order made” substitute  “a notice given” .

96.9

After subsection (11) insert—

96.9.11A

The Secretary of State must publish a notice given under subsection (1).

96.10

In subsection (12)—

96.10.a

for ““ CCS demonstration project ” and “ commercial electricity generation ”
have the same meanings” substitute  “has the same meaning” ;

96.10.b

omit the definition of “carbon storage facility”;

96.10.c

at the appropriate places insert—

      “ decommissioning costs ” has the meaning given by  section 92  of the
Energy Act 2023;

;

      “ “relevant person ” means a person to whom a notice may be given under
section 29(1) of the 1998 Act in relation to an offshore installation (within
the meaning given by section 44 of the 1998 Act);

.

###### Change of use relief: carbon storage network pipelines

97

97.1

Section 30B of the Energy Act 2008 (submarine pipelines converted for CCS
demonstration projects) is amended as follows.

97.2

For the heading substitute  “Change of use relief: carbon storage network
pipelines” .

97.3

For “CCS pipeline”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “carbon storage
network pipeline” .

97.4

In subsection (1), for “by order” insert  “, on an application made by a
relevant person, by notice” .

97.5

After subsection (1) insert—

97.5.1A

The Secretary of State must consult the Oil and Gas Authority before deciding—

97.5.1A.a

whether to designate a pipeline under subsection (1);

97.5.1A.b

whether to make a certification under subsection (3)(b).

97.6

For subsection (2) substitute—

97.6.2

An eligible carbon storage network pipeline qualifies for change of use relief
if—

97.6.2.a

the Secretary of State has given a CCS-related abandonment programme notice to
a person in relation to the abandonment of the pipeline, and

97.6.2.b

the trigger event has occurred in relation to the pipeline.

97.6.2A

In subsection  (2)  “ CCS-related abandonment programme notice ” means an
abandonment programme notice under section 29 of the 1998 Act given at a time
when the pipeline is used, or is to be used wholly or mainly—

97.6.2A.a

for the purpose of disposing of carbon dioxide by way of geological storage,
or

97.6.2A.b

as a licensable means of transportation.

97.7

For subsection (3) substitute—

97.7.3

The trigger event occurs in relation to an eligible carbon storage network
pipeline when—

97.7.3.a

a decommissioning fund (as defined in section  92 (7)  of the Energy Act 2023)
has been established for providing security for the discharge of liabilities
in respect of decommissioning costs in relation to the pipeline, and

97.7.3.b

the Secretary of State certifies by notice in writing (an “approval notice”)
that one or more relevant persons have paid into the fund an amount or amounts
the total of which is not less than the required amount.

97.7.3A

In  subsection (3) —

97.7.3A.a

“ relevant person ” means a person of a description specified in regulations
made by the Secretary of State;

97.7.3A.b

“ the required amount ” means an amount determined by the Secretary of State
in accordance with regulations made by the Secretary of State.

97.7.3B

Where the Secretary of State gives an approval notice in relation to an
eligible carbon storage network pipeline, the Secretary of State must—

97.7.3B.a

give a copy of the approval notice to every person to whom a notice has been
given under section 29(1) of the 1998 Act in relation to the pipeline, and

97.7.3B.b

publish a notice that—

97.7.3B.b.i

specifies the pipeline, and

97.7.3B.b.ii

states that the Secretary of State has given an approval notice under
subsection (3) (b)  in relation to it.

97.8

In subsection (6), for “an order made” substitute  “a notice given” .

97.9

After subsection (6) insert—

97.9.6A

The Secretary of State must publish a notice given under subsection (1).

97.10

In subsection (7)—

97.10.a

for “and “CCS demonstration project” have the same meanings” substitute  “has
the same meaning” ;

97.10.b

omit the definition of “carbon storage facility”;

97.10.c

at the appropriate places insert—

      “ decommissioning costs ” has the meaning given by  section 92  of the
Energy Act 2023;

;

      “ “geological storage ”, in relation to carbon dioxide, has the same
meaning as in  Part 1  of the Energy Act 2023 (see  section 55  of that Act);

;

      “ “licensable means of transportation ” has the meaning given by
section 2 (3)  of the Energy Act 2023;

;

      “ “relevant person ” means a person to whom a notice may be given under
section 29(1) of the 1998 Act in relation to a submarine pipeline;

.

###### Change of use relief: supplementary

98

98.1

In the Energy Act 2008, after section 30B insert—

############ Relief under sections 30A and 30B: supplementary

98.1.30C

98.1.30C.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the obtaining
of information required, and sharing of information held, for the purposes of
functions of the Secretary of State under sections 30A and 30B, including
provision—

98.1.30C.1.a

for the Secretary of State to require the holder of a licence under  section 7
of the Energy Act 2023, or a person who qualifies for change of use relief
under section 30A or 30B, to provide information to the Secretary of State;

98.1.30C.1.b

authorising His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (or anyone acting on their
behalf) to disclose to the Secretary of State information held as mentioned in
section 18(1) of the Commissioners for Revenue and Customs Act 2005;

98.1.30C.1.c

for the enforcement of any requirement imposed by virtue of the regulations.

98.1.30C.2

For the purposes of  subsection (1) , a person “qualifies for change of use
relief” if—

98.1.30C.2.a

but for section 30A(6) they would be a person to whom a notice may be given
under section 29(1) of the Petroleum Act 1998 in relation to a carbon storage
installation, or

98.1.30C.2.b

but for section 30B(4) they would be a person to whom a proposal may be made
under section 29(1) of the Petroleum Act 1998 in relation to a submarine
pipeline.

98.1.30C.3

In this section—

      “ carbon storage installation ” has the same meaning as in section 30 of
the Energy Act 2008;           “ submarine pipeline ” has the same meaning as
in Part 4 of the 1998 Act (see section 45 of that Act).

98.2

In section 105 of the Energy Act 2008 (Parliamentary control of subordinate
legislation), in subsection (2) omit paragraph (aa).

#### Strategy and policy statement

##### Designation of strategy and policy statement

99

99.1

The Secretary of State may designate a statement as the strategy and policy
statement for the purposes of this Part (“the CCUS strategy and policy
statement”) if the requirements set out in  section 102  are satisfied
(consultation and laying requirements).

99.2

The CCUS strategy and policy statement is a statement prepared by the
Secretary of State that sets out—

99.2.a

the strategic priorities, and other main considerations, of His Majesty’s
government in formulating its carbon dioxide capture, usage and storage policy
for the United Kingdom (“strategic priorities”),

99.2.b

the particular outcomes to be achieved as a result of the implementation of
that policy (“policy outcomes”), and

99.2.c

the roles and responsibilities of persons (whether the Secretary of State, the
economic regulator or other persons) who are involved in implementing that
policy or who have other functions that are affected by it.

99.3

In preparing a statement for designation under  subsection (1)  (or
undertaking a review under  section 101 ), the Secretary of State must take
account of any statement for the time being designated under section 131 of
the Energy Act 2013 (strategy and policy statement in respect of energy
policy).

99.4

The Secretary of State must publish the CCUS strategy and policy statement
(including any amended statement following a review under  section 101 ) in
such manner as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

99.5

For the purposes of this section, carbon dioxide capture, usage and storage
policy “ for the United Kingdom ” includes such policy for—

99.5.a

the territorial sea adjacent to the United Kingdom, or

99.5.b

waters in a Gas Importation and Storage Zone (within the meaning given by
section 1 of the Energy Act 2008).

99.6

In this Chapter—

      “ the CCUS strategy and policy statement ” means the statement for the
time being designated under  subsection (1)  as the strategy and policy
statement for the purposes of this Part;           “ economic regulator ” has
the same meaning as in  Part 1  (see  section 55 );           “ policy
outcomes ” has the meaning given in  subsection (2) (b) ;           “
strategic priorities ” has the meaning given in  subsection (2) (a) .

##### Duties with regard to considerations in the statement

100

100.1

The economic regulator must have regard to the strategic priorities set out in
the CCUS strategy and policy statement when carrying out CCUS-related
functions under this Part or Part 1.

100.2

The Secretary of State and the economic regulator must carry out their
respective CCUS-related functions under  Part 1  and this Part in the manner
which the Secretary of State or the economic regulator (as the case may be)
considers is best calculated to further the delivery of the policy outcomes.

100.3

Subsection  (2)  is subject to the application of the principal objectives in
the carrying out of any such function.

100.4

Subsections  (1)  and  (2)  do not apply to anything done by the economic
regulator—

100.4.a

in the exercise of functions relating to the determination of disputes;

100.4.b

in the exercise of functions under section  36 (1)  or  37 (1) .

100.5

The duties imposed by subsections  (1)  and  (2)  do not affect the obligation
of the economic regulator or the Secretary of State to perform or comply with
any other duty or requirement (whether arising under this Act or another
enactment or otherwise).

100.6

The economic regulator must give notice to the Secretary of State if at any
time the economic regulator concludes that a policy outcome contained in the
strategy and policy statement is not realistically achievable.

100.7

A notice under  subsection (6)  must include—

100.7.a

the grounds on which the conclusion was reached;

100.7.b

what (if anything) the economic regulator is doing, or proposes to do, for the
purpose of furthering the delivery of the outcome so far as reasonably
practicable.

100.8

In this section—

      “ CCUS-related functions ” means functions to which the strategic
priorities are relevant (not including functions under sections  69  to  72 ,
84 (1)  or  (2)  or  89 , or other functions so far as carried out in
connection with those functions);           “ principal objectives ” means the
principal objectives of the Secretary of State and the economic regulator set
out in  section 1 (1) .

##### Review

101

101.1

The Secretary of State must review the CCUS strategy and policy statement if a
period of 5 years has elapsed since the relevant time.

101.2

In this section “ relevant time ”, in relation to the CCUS strategy and policy
statement, means—

101.2.a

the time when the statement was first designated under  section 99 , or

101.2.b

if later, the time when a review of the statement under this section last took
place.

101.3

A review under  subsection (1)  must take place as soon as reasonably
practicable after the end of the 5 year period.

101.4

The Secretary of State may review the CCUS strategy and policy statement at
any other time if—

101.4.a

a Parliamentary general election has taken place since the relevant time,

101.4.b

the economic regulator has given notice to the Secretary of State under
section 100 (6)  since the relevant time,

101.4.c

a significant change in the policy of His Majesty’s government with regard to
carbon dioxide capture, usage and storage has occurred since the relevant
time,

101.4.d

the Secretary of State has commenced a review under section 134 of the Energy
Act 2013 since the relevant time,

101.4.e

the Parliamentary approval requirement in relation to an amended statement was
not met on the last review (see  subsection (13) ).

101.5

The Secretary of State may determine that a significant change in the
government’s policy with regard to carbon dioxide capture, usage and storage
has occurred for the purposes of  subsection (4) (c)  only if—

101.5.a

the change was not anticipated at the relevant time, and

101.5.b

if the change had been so anticipated, it appears to the Secretary of State
likely that the statement would have been different in a material way.

101.6

On a review under this section the Secretary of State may—

101.6.a

amend the statement (including by replacing the whole or part of the statement
with new content),

101.6.b

leave the statement as it is, or

101.6.c

withdraw the statement’s designation as the strategy and policy statement.

101.7

The amendment of a statement under  subsection (6) (a)  has effect only if the
Secretary of State designates under  section 99  the amended statement as the
strategy and policy statement (and the procedural requirements under  section
102  apply in relation to any such designation).

101.8

For the purposes of this section, corrections of clerical or typographical
errors are not to be treated as amendments made to the statement.

101.9

The designation of a statement as the strategy and policy statement ceases to
have effect upon a subsequent designation of an amended statement as the
strategy and policy statement in accordance with  subsection (7) .

101.10

Before proceeding under  subsection (6) (b)  or  (c)  the Secretary of State
must give notice to the appropriate consultees—

101.10.a

setting out the Secretary of State’s proposed decision, and

101.10.b

specifying the period (of not less than 28 days from the date on which the
notice is given) within which representations must be made,

and the Secretary of State must consider any representations which are duly
made and not withdrawn.

101.11

For the purposes of subsection  (10) , the “appropriate consultees” are—

101.11.a

the economic regulator;

101.11.b

so far as the decision as to whether or not to proceed relates to Scottish
devolved matters, the Scottish Ministers;

101.11.c

so far as that decision relates to Welsh devolved matters, the Welsh
Ministers;

101.11.d

so far as that decision relates to Northern Ireland devolved matters, the
Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland.

101.12

For the purposes of  subsection (2) (b) , a review of a statement takes place—

101.12.a

where the decision on the review is to amend the statement under  subsection
(6) (a) —

101.12.a.i

at the time when the amended statement is designated as the CCUS strategy and
policy statement under  section 99 , or

101.12.a.ii

if the amended statement is not so designated, at the time when the amended
statement was laid before Parliament for approval under  section 102 (9) ;

101.12.b

where the decision on the review is to leave the statement as it is under
subsection (6) (b) , at the time when that decision is taken.

101.13

For the purposes of  subsection (4) (e) , the Parliamentary approval
requirement in relation to an amended statement was not met on the last review
if—

101.13.a

on the last review of the strategy and policy statement to be held under this
section, an amended statement was laid before Parliament for approval under
section 102 (9) , but

101.13.b

the amended statement was not designated because such approval was not given.

101.14

For the purposes of this section—

101.14.a

something relates to Welsh devolved matters so far as it relates to any matter
provision about which would be within the legislative competence of Senedd
Cymru if it were contained in an Act of the Senedd (ignoring any requirement
for the consent of a Minister of the Crown imposed under Schedule 7B to the
Government of Wales Act 2006);

101.14.b

something relates to Scottish devolved matters so far as it relates to any
matter provision about which would be within the legislative competence of the
Scottish Parliament if it were contained in an Act of that Parliament;

101.14.c

something relates to Northern Ireland devolved matters so far as it relates to
any matter provision about which—

101.14.c.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
it were contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

101.14.c.ii

would not, if it were contained in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State under
section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998.

##### Procedural requirements

102

102.1

This section sets out the requirements that must be satisfied in relation to a
statement before the Secretary of State may designate it as the CCUS strategy
and policy statement.

102.2

In this section references to a statement include references to a statement as
amended following a review under  section 101 (6) (a).

102.3

The Secretary of State must first—

102.3.a

prepare a draft of the statement, and

102.3.b

issue the draft to the required consultees for the purpose of consulting them
about it.

102.4

The “required consultees” are—

102.4.a

the economic regulator,

102.4.b

the Scottish Ministers,

102.4.c

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, and

102.4.d

the Welsh Ministers.

102.5

The Secretary of State must then—

102.5.a

make such revisions to the draft as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate as a result of responses to the consultation under  subsection (3)
(b) , and

102.5.b

issue the revised draft for the purposes of further consultation about it to
the required consultees and to such other persons as the Secretary of State
considers appropriate.

102.6

The Secretary of State must then—

102.6.a

make any further revisions to the draft that the Secretary of State considers
appropriate as a result of responses to the consultation under  subsection (5)
(b) , and

102.6.b

prepare a report summarising those responses and the changes (if any) that the
Secretary of State has made to the draft as a result.

102.7

In relation to required consultees within  subsection (4) (b)  to (d),
references in subsections  (3) (b)  and  (5) (b)  to consultation about a
draft are to consultation about the draft so far as it relates—

102.7.a

in the case of the Scottish Ministers, to Scottish devolved matters;

102.7.b

in the case of the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, to Northern
Ireland devolved matters;

102.7.c

in the case of the Welsh Ministers, to Welsh devolved matters.

102.8

References in this section to relating to Scottish devolved matters, Northern
Ireland devolved matters or Welsh devolved matters are to be interpreted in
accordance with  section 101 (14) .

102.9

The Secretary of State must lay before Parliament—

102.9.a

the statement as revised under  subsection (6) (a) , and

102.9.b

the report prepared under  subsection (6) (b) .

102.10

The statement as laid under  subsection (9) (a)  must have been approved by a
resolution of each House of Parliament before the Secretary of State may
designate it as the strategy and policy statement under  section 99 .

102.11

The requirement under  subsection (3) (a)  to prepare a draft of a statement
may be satisfied by preparation carried out before, as well as preparation
carried out after, the passing of this Act.

#### Carbon dioxide storage licences

##### Specified provisions in carbon dioxide storage licences

103

103.1

Schedule 6  amends Schedule 1 to the Storage of Carbon Dioxide (Licensing
etc.) Regulations 2010 ( S.I. 2010/2221 ) (“ the 2010 Regulations ”).

103.2

Subsections (3) to (5) apply in relation to a licence granted (or having
effect as if granted) by the Oil and Gas Authority under section 18(1) of the
Energy Act 2008 which is in force immediately before the commencement of
Schedule 6 .

103.3

The licence has effect with the addition of provision having the same legal
effect as paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations (as inserted by
Schedule 6  to this Act).

103.4

If the licence confers power on the Oil and Gas Authority to revoke a licence
in connection with a change in control of a licence holder which is a company,
the licence has effect—

103.4.a

with the omission of such provision, and

103.4.b

with the replacement of such provision by provision having the same legal
effect as paragraph 7 of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations (as inserted by
Schedule 6  to this Act).

103.5

If the licence confers power on the Oil and Gas Authority to partially revoke
a licence in connection with a change in control of a licence holder which is
a company, the licence has effect—

103.5.a

with the omission of such provision, and

103.5.b

with the replacement of such provision by provision having the same legal
effect as paragraph 8 of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations (as inserted by
Schedule 6  to this Act).

103.6

A reference in any document to provisions of a licence which are to have
effect with amendments as provided for by  Schedule 6  is to be construed,
unless the nature of the document or the context otherwise requires, as a
reference to those provisions as amended.

103.7

A provision inserted in a licence by virtue of  Schedule 6  may be altered or
deleted by deed executed by the Secretary of State and the licence holder or,
as respects Scotland, by an instrument subscribed or authenticated by the
Secretary of State and the licence holder in accordance with the Requirements
of Writing (Scotland) Act 1995.

##### Content of storage permits under carbon dioxide storage licences

104

104.1

In the Storage of Carbon Dioxide (Licensing etc.) Regulations 2010 ( S.I.
2010/2221 ) (“ the 2010 Regulations ”), regulation 8 (content of storage
permits) is amended as follows—

104.1.a

after paragraph (1) insert—

104.1.a.1A

If the operator is a company, a storage permit must also include the
provisions contained in paragraph 6(2) to (11) of Schedule 1, read as if—

104.1.a.1A.a

any reference to a company were to the operator,

104.1.a.1A.b

the reference in paragraph 6(8)(b) to the licence were to the storage permit,
and

104.1.a.1A.c

paragraph 6(10)(c) were omitted.

;

104.1.b

in paragraph (2), for “In this” substitute  “In paragraph (1) of this” .

104.2

Subsection (4) applies in relation to a storage permit granted under an
existing licence.

104.3

“ Existing licence ” means a licence granted (or having effect as if granted)
by the Oil and Gas Authority under section 18(1) of the Energy Act 2008 which
is in force immediately before the commencement of subsection (1).

104.4

The storage permit has effect with the addition of provision having the same
legal effect as provision required to be included in the permit by reason of
paragraph (1A) of regulation 8 of the 2010 Regulations (as inserted by
subsection (1)(a)).

##### Offences relating to carbon dioxide storage licences

105

In section 23 of the Energy Act 2008 (offences relating to carbon dioxide
storage licences), after subsection (1) insert—

105.1A

But a licence holder does not commit an offence under subsection (1)(a) or (b)
if—

105.1A.a

the licence holder is a company, or, where there are joint licence holders,
any of them is a company, and

105.1A.b

the thing mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (b) is a change in the control of
the company.

##### Power of OGA to require information about change in control of licence holder

106

After section 29 of the Energy Act 2008 insert—

######### Information about change in control of licence holder

########## OGA’s power to require information about change in control of licence holder

106.29A

106.29A.1

This section applies in relation to a licence granted (or having effect as if
granted) by the OGA which includes provisions prohibiting a change in control
of a licence holder which is a company without the OGA’s consent.

106.29A.2

The OGA may by notice in writing require a person within subsection (3) to
provide the OGA with any information that it requires for the purpose of
exercising its functions in relation to a change or potential change in
control of a licence holder which is a company.

106.29A.3

The persons within this subsection are—

106.29A.3.a

the company;

106.29A.3.b

the person who (if consent were granted) would take control of the company;

106.29A.3.c

if the company is a joint licence holder with another person or other persons,
that other person or those other persons;

106.29A.3.d

any person not within any of paragraphs (a) to (c) who appears to the OGA to
have information that it requires as mentioned in subsection (2).

106.29A.4

The power conferred by this section does not include power to require the
provision of any information that would be protected from disclosure or
production in legal proceedings on grounds of legal professional privilege or,
in Scotland, confidentiality of communications.

106.29A.5

Nothing in this section limits any power of the OGA to require information
under—

106.29A.5.a

regulations under this Chapter,

106.29A.5.b

the terms of a licence, or

106.29A.5.c

the terms of a permit granted under a licence.

#### Carbon storage information and samples

##### Introductory

###### Chapter 5: key definitions

107

107.1

This section applies for the purposes of this Chapter.

107.2

“ Carbon storage licence ” means a licence granted, or having effect as if
granted, by the OGA under section 18(1) of the Energy Act 2008 (and references
to a “licensee” are to a person who holds such a licence).

107.3

“ Exploration operator ”, in relation to a carbon storage licence, means a
person who is responsible for organising or supervising—

107.3.a

the carrying on of exploration, within the area within which activities are
authorised under the licence, with a view to, or in connection with, the
carrying on of activities within section 17(2)(a) or (b) of the Energy Act
2008, or

107.3.b

the establishment or maintenance in a controlled place (as defined in section
17 of the Energy Act 2008) of an installation for the purposes of such
exploration.

107.4

“ Carbon storage information ” means information acquired or created by or on
behalf of a licensee in the course of carrying out activities under the
licensee’s carbon storage licence.

107.5

“ Carbon storage samples ” means samples of substances acquired by or on
behalf of a licensee in the course of carrying out activities under the
licensee’s carbon storage licence.

107.6

“ Sanctionable requirement ” means a requirement imposed on a person by or
under a provision of this Chapter which, by virtue of the provision, is
sanctionable in accordance with this Chapter.

##### Requirements relating to information and samples

###### Retention of information and samples

108

108.1

Regulations made by the Secretary of State may require—

108.1.a

specified licensees to retain specified carbon storage information;

108.1.b

specified licensees to retain specified carbon storage samples.

108.2

“ Specified ” means specified, or of a description specified, in regulations
under this section.

108.3

Regulations under this section may include provision about—

108.3.a

the form or manner in which information or samples are to be retained;

108.3.b

the period for which information or samples are to be retained;

108.3.c

the event that triggers the commencement of that period.

108.4

Regulations under this section may provide for requirements imposed by the
regulations to continue following a termination of rights under the licensee’s
carbon storage licence (whether by transfer, surrender, expiry or revocation
and whether in relation to all or only part of the licence).

108.5

Regulations under this section may not impose requirements which have effect
in relation to particular carbon storage information or particular carbon
storage samples at any time when an information and samples plan dealing with
the information or samples has effect.

108.6

Requirements imposed by regulations under this section are sanctionable in
accordance with this Chapter.

108.7

Before making regulations under this section, the Secretary of State must
consult each licensing authority that may under section 18(1) of the Energy
Act 2008 grant a licence in respect of the carrying on, in a place to which
the regulations would apply, of activities within section 17(2) of that Act.

108.8

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

###### Preparation and agreement of information and samples plans

109

109.1

The responsible person must prepare an information and samples plan in
connection with any of the following (each “a licence event”)—

109.1.a

where a licensee is a company, a change in control of the company within the
meaning of paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to the Carbon Dioxide (Licensing etc.)
Regulations 2010 ( S.I. 2010/2221 ) (inserted by  Schedule 6  to this Act);

109.1.b

a change in the identity of—

109.1.b.i

the exploration operator under a carbon storage licence, or

109.1.b.ii

where a storage permit has been granted under a carbon storage licence, the
operator in relation to the storage permit (within the meaning of regulation
1(3) of the Carbon Dioxide (Licensing etc.) Regulations 2010);

109.1.c

a transfer of rights under a carbon storage licence, whether in relation to
all or part of the area in respect of which the licence was granted;

109.1.d

a surrender of rights under a carbon storage licence in relation to all of the
area in respect of which the licence was granted, or in relation to so much of
that area in respect of which the licence continues to have effect;

109.1.e

the expiry of a carbon storage licence;

109.1.f

the termination of a carbon storage licence;

109.1.g

the revocation of a storage permit.

109.2

“ Responsible person ”, in relation to a licence event, means the person who
is or was, or the persons who are or were, the licensee in respect of the
relevant licence immediately before the licence event.

109.3

“ Relevant licence ”, in relation to a licence event, means the carbon storage
licence in respect of which the licence event occurs.

109.4

“ Information and samples plan ”, in relation to a licence event, means a plan
dealing with what is to happen, following the event, to—

109.4.a

carbon storage information held by the responsible person before the event,
and

109.4.b

carbon storage samples held by that person before the event.

109.5

The responsible person must agree the information and samples plan with the
OGA—

109.5.a

in the case of a licence event mentioned in  subsection (1) (a) ,  (b) ,  (c)
,  (d)  or  (e) , before the licence event takes place, or

109.5.b

in the case of a licence event mentioned in  subsection (1) (f)  or  (g) ,
within a reasonable period after the termination of the carbon storage licence
or revocation of the storage permit.

109.6

An information and samples plan has effect once it is agreed with the OGA.

109.7

If an information and samples plan is not agreed with the OGA as mentioned in
subsection (5) (a)  or  (b) , the OGA—

109.7.a

may itself prepare an information and samples plan in connection with the
licence event, and

109.7.b

may require the responsible person to provide it with such information as the
OGA may require to enable it to do so.

109.8

The OGA must inform the responsible person of the terms of any information and
samples plan it prepares in connection with a licence event.

109.9

Where the OGA—

109.9.a

prepares an information and samples plan in connection with a licence event,
and

109.9.b

informs the responsible person of the terms of the plan,

the plan has effect as if it had been prepared by the responsible person and
agreed with the OGA.

109.10

Where an information and samples plan has effect in connection with a licence
event, the responsible person must comply with the plan.

109.11

The requirements imposed by  subsection (5)  and  (10) , or under  subsection
(7) (b) , are sanctionable in accordance with this Chapter.

###### Information and samples plans: supplementary

110

110.1

Where an information and samples plan has effect in relation to a licence
event, the OGA and the responsible person may agree changes to the plan.

110.2

Once changes are agreed, the plan has effect subject to those changes.

110.3

Where—

110.3.a

two or more persons are the responsible person in relation to a licence event,
and

110.3.b

those persons include a company that has, since the licence event, been
dissolved,

the reference to the responsible person in  subsection (1)  does not include
that company.

110.4

An information and samples plan, in relation to a licence event, may provide
as appropriate for—

110.4.a

the retention, by the responsible person, of any carbon storage information or
carbon storage samples held by or on behalf of that person before the licence
event,

110.4.b

the transfer of any such information or samples to a new licensee, or

110.4.c

appropriate storage of such information or samples.

110.5

Where an information and samples plan makes provision under  subsection (4)
for a person, other than the responsible person, to hold information or
samples in accordance with the plan—

110.5.a

the plan may, with the consent of that other person, impose requirements on
that person in connection with the information and samples, and

110.5.b

any such requirements are sanctionable in accordance with this Chapter.

110.6

An information and samples plan prepared by the OGA under  section 109  may
not include provision under  subsection (4) (b)  for the transfer of
information or samples to another person without the consent of the
responsible person.

110.7

An information and samples plan may provide for the storage of information or
samples as mentioned in  subsection (4) (c)  to be the responsibility of the
OGA.

110.8

Where a transfer of rights under a carbon storage licence relates to only part
of the area in relation to which the licence was granted, the information and
samples plan prepared in connection with the transfer is to relate to all
carbon storage information and carbon storage samples held by the responsible
person before the licence event, and not only information and samples in
respect of that part of the area.

110.9

In this section, “ licence event ” and “ responsible person ” have the same
meaning as in  section 109 .

###### Information and samples coordinators

111

111.1

A person within  subsection (2)  (a “relevant person”) must—

111.1.a

appoint an individual to act as an information and samples coordinator, and

111.1.b

notify the OGA of that individual’s name and contact details.

111.2

The following persons are within this subsection—

111.2.a

a licensee, and

111.2.b

an exploration operator under a carbon storage licence.

111.3

The information and samples coordinator is to be responsible for monitoring
the relevant person’s compliance with its obligations under this Chapter.

111.4

A relevant person must comply with  subsection (1)  within a reasonable period
after—

111.4.a

the date on which this section comes into force, if the person is a relevant
person on that date, or

111.4.b

becoming a relevant person, in any other case.

111.5

The relevant person must notify the OGA of any change in the identity or
contact details of the information and samples coordinator within a reasonable
period of the change taking place.

111.6

The requirements imposed by this section are sanctionable in accordance with
this Chapter.

###### Power of OGA to require information and samples

112

112.1

The OGA may by notice in writing, for the purpose of carrying out any of its
functions under Chapter 3 of Part 1 of the Energy Act 2008 (storage of carbon
dioxide), require—

112.1.a

a licensee to provide it with any carbon storage information, or a portion of
any carbon storage sample, held by or on behalf of the licensee;

112.1.b

a person who holds information or samples in accordance with an information
and samples plan to provide it with any such information or a portion of any
such sample.

112.2

The notice must specify—

112.2.a

the form or manner in which the information or the portion of a sample must be
provided;

112.2.b

the time at which, or period within which, the information or the portion of a
sample must be provided.

112.3

Information requested under  subsection (1)  may not include items subject to
legal privilege.

112.4

Requirements imposed by a notice under this section are sanctionable in
accordance with this Chapter.

112.5

Where a person provides information or a portion of a sample to the OGA in
accordance with a notice under this section, any requirements imposed on the
person in respect of that information or sample by regulations under  section
108  are unaffected.

###### Prohibition on disclosure of information or samples by OGA

113

113.1

Protected material must not be disclosed—

113.1.a

by the OGA, or

113.1.b

by a subsequent holder,

except in accordance with  section 114  or  Schedule 7 .

113.2

In this section and in  Schedule 7 —

      “ protected material ” means information or samples which have been
obtained by the OGA under section  112  or  124 ;           “ subsequent
holder ”, in relation to protected material, means a person holding protected
material who has received it directly or indirectly from the OGA by virtue of
a disclosure, or disclosures, in accordance with  Schedule 7 .

113.3

References to disclosing protected material include references to making the
protected material available to other persons (where the protected material
includes samples).

###### Power of Secretary of State to require information and samples

114

114.1

The Secretary of State may require the OGA to provide the Secretary of State
with such information or samples held by or on behalf of the OGA as the
Secretary of State may require for the purpose of—

114.1.a

carrying out any function conferred by or under any Act,

114.1.b

monitoring the OGA's performance of its functions, or

114.1.c

any Parliamentary proceedings.

114.2

The Secretary of State may use information or samples acquired under
subsection (1)  (“acquired material”) only for the purpose for which it is
provided.

114.3

Acquired material must not be disclosed—

114.3.a

by the Secretary of State, or

114.3.b

by a subsequent holder,

except in accordance with this section.

114.4

For the purposes of  subsection (3) (b) , “ subsequent holder ”, in relation
to acquired material, means a person who receives acquired material directly
or indirectly from the Secretary of State by virtue of a disclosure, or
disclosures, in accordance with this section.

114.5

Subsection (3)  does not prohibit the Secretary of State from disclosing
acquired material so far as necessary for the purpose for which it was
provided.

114.6

Subsection (3)  does not prohibit a disclosure of acquired material if—

114.6.a

the disclosure is required by virtue of an obligation imposed by or under any
Act, or

114.6.b

the OGA consents to the disclosure and, where the acquired material in
question was provided to the OGA by or on behalf of another person, confirms
that that person also consents to the disclosure.

114.7

References in this section to disclosing acquired material include references
to making the acquired material available to other persons (where the acquired
material includes samples).

##### Enforcement of sanctionable requirements

###### Power of OGA to give sanction notices

115

115.1

If the OGA considers that a person has failed to comply with a sanctionable
requirement imposed on the person, it may give the person a sanction notice in
respect of that failure.

115.2

If the OGA considers that there has a been a failure to comply with a
sanctionable requirement imposed jointly on two or more persons, it may give a
sanction notice in respect of that failure—

115.2.a

to one only of those persons (subject to  section 118 (2) ),

115.2.b

jointly to two or more of them, or

115.2.c

jointly to all of them,

but it may not give separate sanction notices to each of them in respect of
the failure.

115.3

In this Chapter “ sanction notice ” means—

115.3.a

an enforcement notice (see  section 116 ),

115.3.b

a financial penalty notice (see  section 117 ),

115.3.c

a revocation notice (see  section 118 ), or

115.3.d

an operator removal notice (see  section 119 ).

115.4

Sanction notices, other than enforcement notices, may be given in respect of a
failure to comply with a sanctionable requirement even if, at the time the
notice is given, the failure to comply has already been remedied.

115.5

Where the OGA gives a sanction notice to a person in respect of a particular
failure to comply with a sanctionable requirement—

115.5.a

it may, at the same time, give another type of sanction notice to the person
in respect of that failure to comply;

115.5.b

it may give subsequent sanction notices in respect of that failure only in
accordance with  section 122  (subsequent sanction notices).

115.6

The OGA’s power to give sanction notices under this section is subject to
section 120  (duty of OGA to give sanction warning notices).

115.7

Where the OGA gives a sanction notice to a licensee in respect of a failure to
comply with a sanctionable requirement—

115.7.a

the matter is to be dealt with in accordance with this Chapter, and

115.7.b

any requirement under the licensee’s carbon storage licence to deal with the
matter in a certain way (including by arbitration) does not apply in respect
of that failure to comply.

###### Enforcement notices

116

116.1

An enforcement notice is a notice which—

116.1.a

specifies the sanctionable requirement in question,

116.1.b

gives details of the failure to comply with the requirement, and

116.1.c

informs the person or persons to whom the notice is given that the person or
persons must comply with—

116.1.c.i

the sanctionable requirement, and

116.1.c.ii

any directions included in the notice as mentioned in  subsection (2) ,

before the end of the period specified in the notice.

116.2

The notice may include directions as to the measures to be taken for the
purposes of compliance with the sanctionable requirement.

116.3

Requirements imposed by directions included in an enforcement notice as
mentioned in  subsection (2)  are sanctionable in accordance with this
Chapter.

###### Financial penalty notices

117

117.1

A financial penalty notice is a notice which—

117.1.a

specifies the sanctionable requirement in question,

117.1.b

gives details of the failure to comply with the requirement, and

117.1.c

informs the person or persons to whom the notice is given that the person or
persons must—

117.1.c.i

comply with the sanctionable requirement before the end of a period specified
in the notice, where it is appropriate to require such compliance and the
failure to comply with the requirement has not already been remedied at the
time the notice is given, and

117.1.c.ii

pay the OGA a financial penalty of the amount specified in the notice before
the end of a period specified in the notice.

117.2

The period specified under  subsection (1) (c) (ii)  must not end earlier than
the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which the financial
penalty notice is given.

117.3

The financial penalty payable under a financial penalty notice in respect of a
failure to comply with a sanctionable requirement (whether payable by one
person, or jointly by two or more persons) must not exceed £1 million.

117.4

If a financial penalty notice is given jointly to two or more persons, those
persons are jointly and severally liable to pay the financial penalty under
it.

117.5

A financial penalty payable under a financial penalty notice is to be
recoverable as a civil debt if it is not paid before the end of the period
specified under  subsection (1) (c) (ii) .

117.6

The OGA must—

117.6.a

issue guidance as to the matters to which it will have regard when determining
the amount of the financial penalty to be imposed by a financial penalty
notice, and

117.6.b

have regard to the guidance when determining the amount of the penalty in any
particular case.

117.7

The OGA may from time to time review guidance issued under  subsection (6) (a)
and, if it considers appropriate, revise it.

117.8

Before issuing or revising guidance under this section, the OGA must consult
such persons as it considers appropriate.

117.9

The OGA must—

117.9.a

lay any guidance issued under this section, and any revision of it, before
each House of Parliament;

117.9.b

publish any guidance issued under this section, and any revision of it, in
such manner as the OGA considers appropriate.

117.10

The Secretary of State may by regulations subject to the affirmative procedure
amend  subsection (3)  to change the amount specified to an amount not
exceeding £5 million.

117.11

Money received by the OGA under a financial penalty notice must be paid into
the Consolidated Fund.

###### Revocation notices

118

118.1

A revocation notice may be given only in respect of a failure to comply with a
sanctionable requirement imposed on a licensee in that capacity.

118.2

Where two or more persons are the licensee in respect of a carbon storage
licence, the revocation notice must be given jointly to all of those persons.

118.3

A revocation notice is a notice which—

118.3.a

specifies the sanctionable requirement in question,

118.3.b

gives details of the failure to comply with the requirement,

118.3.c

informs the person or persons to whom the notice is given that—

118.3.c.i

where no storage permit has been granted under the carbon storage licence, the
licence is to be terminated, or

118.3.c.ii

where a storage permit has been granted under the carbon storage licence, the
permit is to be revoked,

on the date specified in the notice (“the revocation date”).

118.4

The revocation date must not be earlier than the end of the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the revocation notice is given.

118.5

A revocation notice may not be given in circumstances where the carbon storage
licence to be terminated, or the storage permit to be revoked, in accordance
with the notice is one which, on the date the notice is given, the OGA would
not have the power to grant.

118.6

Where a carbon storage licence is terminated in accordance with a revocation
notice—

118.6.a

the rights granted to the licensee by the licence cease on the revocation
date;

118.6.b

the revocation does not affect any obligation or liability imposed on or
incurred by the licensee under the terms and conditions of the licence;

118.6.c

the terms and conditions of the licence apply as if the licence had been
terminated in accordance with those terms and conditions, subject to  section
115 (7) (b) .

118.7

Where a storage permit is revoked in accordance with a revocation notice—

118.7.a

the authorisation granted by the storage permit ceases on the revocation date;

118.7.b

the revocation does not affect any obligation or liability imposed or incurred
under the terms and conditions of the storage permit;

118.7.c

the terms and conditions of the carbon storage licence apply as if the storage
permit had been revoked in accordance with those terms and conditions, subject
to  section 115 (7) (b) .

###### Operator removal notices

119

119.1

An operator removal notice may be given only in respect of a failure to comply
with a sanctionable requirement imposed on an exploration operator under a
carbon storage licence in that capacity.

119.2

An operator removal notice is a notice which—

119.2.a

specifies the sanctionable requirement,

119.2.b

gives details of the failure to comply with the requirement, and

119.2.c

informs the exploration operator to whom it is given that, with effect from a
date specified in the notice (“the removal date”), the licensee under whose
carbon storage licence the exploration operator operates (“the relevant
licensee”) is to be required to remove the exploration operator (see
subsection (4) ).

119.3

The OGA must—

119.3.a

give a copy of the operator removal notice to the relevant licensee, and

119.3.b

require the relevant licensee to remove the exploration operator with effect
from the removal date.

119.4

Where a licensee is required to remove an exploration operator from a
specified date, the licensee must ensure that, with effect from that date, the
exploration operator does not exercise any function of organising or
supervising any of the activities referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
section 107 (3) .

119.5

The removal date must not be earlier than the end of the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the operator removal notice is given.

119.6

An operator removal notice may not be given in circumstances where the carbon
storage licence under which the exploration operator operates is one which, on
the date the notice is given, the OGA would not have the power to grant.

119.7

A requirement imposed on a licensee under  subsection (3) (b)  is sanctionable
in accordance with this Chapter.

###### Duty of OGA to give sanction warning notices

120

120.1

This section applies where the OGA proposes to give a sanction notice in
respect of a failure to comply with a sanctionable requirement.

120.2

The OGA must give a sanction warning notice in respect of the sanctionable
requirement to—

120.2.a

the person or persons to whom it proposes to give a sanction notice, and

120.2.b

where it proposes to give an operator removal notice, the relevant licensee
(see  section 119 (2) (c) ).

120.3

A sanction warning notice, in respect of a sanctionable requirement, is a
notice which—

120.3.a

specifies the sanctionable requirement,

120.3.b

informs the person or persons to whom it is given that the OGA proposes to
give a sanction notice in respect of a failure to comply with the requirement,

120.3.c

gives details of the failure to comply with the sanctionable requirement, and

120.3.d

informs the person or persons to whom it is given that the person or persons
may, within the period specified in the notice (“the representations period”),
make representations to the OGA in relation to the matters dealt with in the
notice.

120.4

The representations period must be such period as the OGA considers
appropriate in the circumstances.

120.5

Subsections  (6)  and  (7)  apply where the OGA gives a sanction warning
notice to a person or persons in respect of a sanctionable requirement.

120.6

The OGA must not give a sanction notice to the person or persons in respect of
a failure to comply with the requirement until after the end of the
representations period specified in the sanction warning notice.

120.7

Having regard to representations made during the representations period
specified in the sanction warning notice, the OGA may decide—

120.7.a

to give the person or persons a sanction notice in respect of the failure to
comply with the requirement detailed in the sanction warning notice under
subsection (3) (c) ,

120.7.b

to give the person or persons a sanction notice in respect of a failure to
comply with the requirement which differs from the failure detailed in the
sanction warning notice under  subsection (3) (c) , or

120.7.c

not to give the person or persons a sanction notice in respect of a failure to
comply with the requirement.

###### Publication of details of sanctions

121

121.1

The OGA may publish details of any sanction notice given in accordance with
this Chapter.

121.2

But the OGA may not publish anything that, in its opinion—

121.2.a

is commercially sensitive,

121.2.b

is not in the public interest to publish, or

121.2.c

is otherwise not appropriate for publication.

121.3

If, after details of a sanction notice are published by the OGA, the sanction
notice is—

121.3.a

cancelled on appeal, or

121.3.b

withdrawn under  section 123 ,

the OGA must publish details of the cancellation or withdrawal.

###### Subsequent sanction notices

122

122.1

This section applies where the OGA gives a sanction notice in respect of a
particular failure to comply with a sanctionable requirement (whether the
notice is given alone or at the same time as another type of sanction notice).

122.2

If the sanction notice given is a revocation notice or an operator removal
notice, no further sanction notices may be given in respect of the failure to
comply.

122.3

If the sanction notice given is a financial penalty notice which does not
require compliance with the sanctionable requirement, no further sanction
notices may be given in respect of the failure to comply.

122.4

Subsection  (5)  applies if the sanction notice given is—

122.4.a

an enforcement notice, or

122.4.b

a financial penalty notice which requires compliance with the sanctionable
requirement.

122.5

No further sanction notices may be given in respect of the failure to comply
before the end of the period specified under section  116 (1) (c)  or  117 (1)
(c) (i) , as the case may be (period for compliance with sanctionable
requirement).

###### Withdrawal of sanction notices

123

123.1

The OGA may, at any time after giving a sanction notice, withdraw the sanction
notice.

123.2

If a sanction notice is withdrawn by the OGA—

123.2.a

the notice ceases to have effect, and

123.2.b

the OGA must notify the following persons of the withdrawal of the notice—

123.2.b.i

the person or persons to whom the notice was given;

123.2.b.ii

in the case of an operator removal notice, the licensee under whose carbon
storage licence the exploration operator operates.

###### Sanctions: information powers

124

124.1

This section applies for the purposes of an investigation which—

124.1.a

concerns whether a person has failed to comply with a sanctionable
requirement, and

124.1.b

is carried out by the OGA for the purpose of enabling it to decide whether to
give the person a sanction notice, or on what terms a sanction notice should
be given to the person.

124.2

The OGA may by notice in writing, for the purposes of that investigation,
require the person to provide specified documents or other information.

124.3

“ Specified ” means specified, or of a description specified, in a notice
under this section.

124.4

A requirement under  subsection (2)  applies only to the extent—

124.4.a

that the documents requested are documents in the person’s possession or
control, or

124.4.b

that the information requested is information in the person’s possession or
control.

124.5

A requirement imposed by a notice under  subsection (2)  is sanctionable in
accordance with this Chapter.

124.6

The documents or information requested—

124.6.a

may include documents or information held in any form (including in electronic
form);

124.6.b

may include documents or information that may be regarded as commercially
sensitive;

124.6.c

may not include items that are subject to legal privilege.

124.7

The notice must specify—

124.7.a

to whom the information is to be provided;

124.7.b

where it is to be provided;

124.7.c

when it is to be provided;

124.7.d

the form and manner in which it is to be provided.

##### General

###### Appeals

125

In  Schedule 8 —

125.a

Part 1 contains provision about appeals against decisions by the OGA relating
to the preparation of an information and samples plan and appeals against the
giving of a notice under  section 112 , and

125.b

Part 2 contains provision about appeals against the imposition of sanction
notices and appeals against the giving of a notice under  section 124 .

###### Procedure for enforcement decisions

126

126.1

The OGA—

126.1.a

must determine the procedure that it proposes to follow in relation to
enforcement decisions, and

126.1.b

must issue a statement of its proposals.

126.2

The procedure mentioned in  subsection (1) (a)  must be designed to secure,
among other things, that an enforcement decision is taken—

126.2.a

by a person falling within  subsection (3) , or

126.2.b

by two or more persons, each of whom falls within  subsection (3) .

126.3

A person falls within this subsection if the person was not directly involved
in establishing the evidence on which the enforcement decision is based.

126.4

The statement mentioned in  subsection (1) (b)  must be published in whatever
way appears to the OGA to be best calculated to bring the statement to the
attention of the public.

126.5

When the OGA takes an enforcement decision, the OGA must follow its stated
procedure.

126.6

If the OGA changes its procedure in a material way, it must publish a revised
statement.

126.7

A failure of the OGA in a particular case to follow its procedure as set out
in the latest published statement does not affect the validity of an
enforcement decision taken in that case.

126.8

But  subsection (7)  does not prevent the Tribunal from taking into account
any such failure in considering an appeal under paragraph 4 or 5 of  Schedule
8  in relation to a sanction notice.

126.9

In this section, “ enforcement decision ” means—

126.9.a

a decision to give a sanction notice in respect of a failure to comply with a
sanctionable requirement, or

126.9.b

a decision as to the details of the sanction to be imposed by the notice.

###### Interpretation of 

127

In this Chapter—

      “ information and samples plan ” has the meaning given in  section 109 ;
“ items subject to legal privilege ”—         in England and Wales, has the
same meaning as in the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (see section 10
of that Act);           in Scotland, has the meaning given by section 412 of
the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002;           in Northern Ireland, has the same
meaning as in the Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 (
S.I. 1989/1341 (NI 12)) ;                 “ OGA ” means the Oil and Gas
Authority;           “ protected material ” has the meaning given in  section
113 ;           “ sanction notice ” has the meaning given in  section 115 ;
“ storage permit ” has the same meaning as in the Storage of Carbon Dioxide
(Licensing etc) Regulations 2010 ( S.I. 2010/2221 ) (see regulation 1(3) of
those Regulations);           “ subsequent holder ” has the meaning given in
section 113 ;           “ Tribunal ” means the First-tier Tribunal.

#### General

##### Access to infrastructure

128

128.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the acquisition
of rights to use relevant infrastructure (whether existing or proposed).

128.2

In exercising the power under  subsection (1)  the Secretary of State must
have regard to the need to ensure that the process for acquiring such rights
operates in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner.

128.3

Without prejudice to the generality of subsection  (1) , regulations under
that subsection may amend, revoke or replace or make provision similar or
corresponding to—

128.3.a

the Storage of Carbon Dioxide (Access to Infrastructure) Regulations 2011 (
S.I. 2011/2305 );

128.3.b

the Storage of Carbon Dioxide (Access to Infrastructure) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2015 ( S.R. (N.I.) 2015 No. 388 ).

128.4

Regulations under subsection  (1) —

128.4.a

may confer functions (including discretions) on any person;

128.4.b

may confer jurisdiction on a court or tribunal;

128.4.c

may create criminal offences or impose civil penalties;

128.4.d

may make other provision about enforcement;

128.4.e

must provide for any offences created by the regulations to be triable—

128.4.e.i

only summarily, or

128.4.e.ii

either summarily or on indictment.

128.5

Where regulations under subsection  (1)  impose a civil penalty, they must
also provide for a right of appeal against the imposition of the penalty.

128.6

Before making regulations under  subsection (1)  the Secretary of State must
give to the appropriate consultees a notice—

128.6.a

stating that the Secretary of State proposes to make regulations under
subsection  (1) , and

128.6.b

specifying the period (of not less than 28 days from the date on which the
notice is given) within which representations must be made with respect to the
proposed provisions,

and must consider any representations duly made and not withdrawn.

128.7

For the purposes of this section the “appropriate consultees” are—

128.7.a

the GEMA;

128.7.b

the Scottish Ministers, if the regulations contain provision that would be
within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if it were
contained in an Act of that Parliament;

128.7.c

the Welsh Ministers, if the regulations contain provision that would be within
the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it were contained in an Act of
the Senedd (ignoring any requirement for the consent of a Minister of the
Crown imposed under Schedule 7B to the Government of Wales Act 2006);

128.7.d

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, if the regulations contain
provision that—

128.7.d.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
it were contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

128.7.d.ii

would not, if it were contained in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State under
section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998;

128.7.e

the Oil and Gas Authority.

128.8

Regulations under  subsection (1)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

128.9

In this section “ relevant infrastructure ” means—

128.9.a

a site for the geological storage of carbon dioxide that is situated in a
regulated place, or

128.9.b

a pipeline, situated in a regulated place, which is used or intended to be
used to convey carbon dioxide to a site falling within  paragraph (a) ,

and any associated installations, apparatus or works.

128.10

For the purposes of this section a site or pipeline is situated in a
“regulated place” if it is situated—

128.10.a

in the United Kingdom, or

128.10.b

in, under or over—

128.10.b.i

the internal waters of the United Kingdom,

128.10.b.ii

the territorial sea adjacent to United Kingdom, or

128.10.b.iii

waters in a Gas Importation and Storage Zone (within the meaning given by
section 1 of the Energy Act 2008).

128.11

In this section “ geological storage ” has the same meaning as in Part 1 (see
section 55 ).

##### Financial assistance

129

129.1

The Secretary of State may provide financial assistance to any person for the
purpose of encouraging, supporting or facilitating—

129.1.a

transportation of carbon dioxide;

129.1.b

storage of carbon dioxide;

129.1.c

carbon dioxide capture facilities which operate (or are to operate) in
association with facilities for any activity mentioned in paragraph  (a)  or
(b) ;

129.1.d

low carbon hydrogen production;

129.1.e

transportation of hydrogen;

129.1.f

storage of hydrogen.

129.2

The financial assistance referred to in  subsection (1)  includes expenditure
incurred by the Secretary of State for the purposes of, or in connection with—

129.2.a

the establishment of a revenue support counterparty, a hydrogen levy
administrator or an allocation body;

129.2.b

making payments to a revenue support counterparty.

129.3

Financial assistance under this section—

129.3.a

may be provided in any form and in particular by way of grants, loans,
guarantees or indemnities or by the provision of insurance;

129.3.b

may be provided subject to conditions (which may include conditions about
repayment with or without interest or other return);

129.3.c

may be provided pursuant to a contract;

129.3.d

may be provided to an investment fund for onward investment or for
administrative costs relating to onward investment;

129.3.e

may be provided by incurring expenditure for the benefit of the person
assisted;

129.3.f

may be provided by the acquisition of shares or any other interest in, or
securities of, a body corporate;

129.3.g

may be provided by the acquisition of any undertaking or of any assets.

129.4

The Secretary of State is not authorised by this section to give financial
assistance in the way described in  subsection (3) (f)  without the consent of
the body corporate concerned.

129.5

The power to provide financial assistance under this section is in addition to
(and does not limit or replace) any other power of a Minister of the Crown to
provide financial assistance.

129.6

In this section—

      “ allocation body ” has the same meaning as in  Chapter 1  (see  section
73 (6) );           “ greenhouse gas ” has the meaning given by section 92(1)
of the Climate Change Act 2008;           “ hydrogen levy administrator ” has
the same meaning as in  Chapter 1  (see  section 69 (6) );           “ low
carbon hydrogen production ” means production of hydrogen by a method which in
the opinion of the Secretary of State will contribute to a reduction in
emissions of greenhouse gases;           “ revenue support counterparty ” has
the same meaning as in  Chapter 1  (see  section 58 (6) );           “ storage
”, in relation to carbon dioxide, means any storage with a view to the
permanent containment of carbon dioxide;           “ undertaking ” means any
trade or business or any other activity providing employment.

### Licensing of hydrogen pipeline projects

#### Introductory

##### Key definitions for Part 3

130

130.1

In this Part—

      “ designated person ” means a person in relation to whom a designation
under  section 131 (1)  has effect (and any reference to designation, in
relation to a person, is to be construed accordingly);           “ designated
project ”, in relation to a person, means a hydrogen pipeline project in
relation to which the person is designated;           “ gas transporter
licence ” means a licence under section 7 of the Gas Act 1986;           “
hydrogen ” means any gas that consists wholly or mainly of hydrogen;
“ hydrogen pipeline project ” means a project involving the construction,
alteration or operation of a pipeline for the purpose of the conveyance of
hydrogen.

130.2

References in this Part to the extension or restriction of a licence are to
the giving of a direction in respect of the licence under (respectively)
section 7(4) or (4A) of the Gas Act 1986.

#### Designation in relation to hydrogen pipeline projects

##### Designation

131

131.1

The Secretary of State may by notice given to a person designate the person in
relation to a hydrogen pipeline project.

131.2

The Secretary of State may designate a person in relation to a hydrogen
pipeline project only if the Secretary of State is of the opinion—

131.2.a

that it is likely to be appropriate for conditions described in  section 137
(1) (a)  and  (b)  to be included in any gas transporter licence held by the
person for the purposes of the project (whether or not the person already
holds such a licence), and

131.2.b

that the project is likely to result in value for money.

131.3

A person may be designated only with the person’s consent.

131.4

A designation may not relate to more than one hydrogen pipeline project (but a
person who is designated in relation to one project may be designated
separately in relation to another).

##### Designation: procedure

132

132.1

The Secretary of State must publish a statement setting out—

132.1.a

the procedure that the Secretary of State expects to follow in determining
whether to exercise the power under  section 131 (1) , and

132.1.b

how the Secretary of State expects to determine whether the conditions in
section 131 (2)  are met.

132.2

A duty imposed by  subsection (1)  may be satisfied by things done before the
passing of this Act (as well as by things done after that time).

132.3

A designation notice must include—

132.3.a

a description of the hydrogen pipeline project to which the designation
relates,

132.3.b

the Secretary of State’s reasons for the designation,

132.3.c

details of any conditions to which the designation is subject, and

132.3.d

the date of the notice.

132.4

The Secretary of State must give the GEMA a copy of a designation notice.

132.5

The Secretary of State must publish a designation notice, but may exclude from
publication any material the disclosure or publication of which the Secretary
of State considers—

132.5.a

would be likely to prejudice the commercial interests of any person, or

132.5.b

would be contrary to the interests of national security.

132.6

In this section, “ designation notice ” means a notice under  section 131 (1)
.

##### Revocation of designation

133

133.1

The Secretary of State may by notice given to a designated person revoke the
person’s designation in relation to a hydrogen pipeline project if—

133.1.a

either of the conditions in  section 131 (2)  ceases to be met in relation to
the project,

133.1.b

the Secretary of State determines that a condition to which the designation is
subject has not been met, or

133.1.c

the person consents to the designation being revoked.

133.2

Section 132 (3) (a) ,  (b)  and  (d) ,  (4)  and  (5)  applies (with necessary
modifications) in relation to the revocation of a person’s designation as it
applies in relation to the designation of a person.

133.3

Where the Secretary of State gives a notice to a person under subsection  (1)
, the person’s designation in relation to the hydrogen pipeline project in
question ceases to have effect at the end of the day on which the notice is
given to the person.

133.4

The revocation of a person’s designation in relation to a hydrogen pipeline
project does not affect anything done in relation to the licence by the
Secretary of State under or by virtue of this Part while the person was
designated in relation to the project.

#### Grant etc of gas transporter licence

##### Grant, extension or restriction of gas transporter licence by Secretary of State

134

134.1

The Secretary of State may exercise the power under section 7(2) of the Gas
Act 1986 (grant of gas transporter licences) so as to grant a gas transporter
licence to a designated person, subject to subsection  (2) .

134.2

The Secretary of State may only grant a gas transporter licence which
authorises the conveyance of hydrogen through pipes for the purposes of the
person’s designated project.

134.3

The Secretary of State may exercise the power under section 7(4) of the Gas
Act 1986 (direction to extend licence) so as to extend a gas transporter
licence where—

134.3.a

the licence is held by a designated person, and

134.3.b

the extension authorises the conveyance of hydrogen through pipes for the
purposes of the person’s designated project.

134.4

The Secretary of State may exercise the power under section 7(4A) of the Gas
Act 1986 (direction to restrict licence) so as to restrict a gas transporter
licence where—

134.4.a

the licence is or was held by a designated person, and

134.4.b

the restriction is in connection with the revocation of the person’s
designation in relation to a hydrogen pipeline project.

134.5

In its application for the purposes of subsections  (1) ,  (3)  and  (4) , the
Gas Act 1986 has effect as if—

134.5.a

in the following provisions, references to the GEMA were to the Secretary of
State—

134.5.a.i

section 7(5) and (6)(a);

134.5.a.ii

section 7B(9);

134.5.a.iii

section 8(3), (4) and (5)(a);

134.5.b

in sections 7(6)(b) and 8(5)(b), references to the Secretary of State were to
the GEMA;

134.5.c

in section 7B(4)(c), the reference to the GEMA included a reference to the
Secretary of State, but only for the purpose of enabling the inclusion of
conditions requiring the rendering of a payment on the grant of a licence;

134.5.d

section 7B(9) also required a copy of the licence to be sent to the GEMA.

134.6

When granting or extending a gas transporter licence by virtue of this
section, the Secretary of State must have regard to—

134.6.a

costs, expenditure or liabilities of any description that the designated
person may reasonably be expected to incur in carrying out its activities;

134.6.b

the need to secure that the designated person is able to finance its
activities;

134.6.c

the need to secure that the designated person has appropriate incentives in
relation to the carrying on of its activities;

134.6.d

such other matters as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

134.7

References in subsection  (6)  to a designated person’s activities are to the
person’s activities for the purposes of—

134.7.a

the designated project to which the grant or extension relates, and

134.7.b

in the case of an extension, any other designated project already authorised
by the person’s gas transporter licence.

134.8

A gas transporter licence granted, extended or restricted by the Secretary of
State by virtue of  this section  has effect for all purposes as if it had
been granted, extended or restricted by the GEMA.

##### Applications for grant etc of gas transporter licence

135

135.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the making,
consideration and determination of relevant applications, including provision—

135.1.a

about the person to whom a relevant application must be made;

135.1.b

about the form and manner in which a relevant application must be made;

135.1.c

imposing timing requirements in relation to the making of a relevant
application;

135.1.d

requiring a relevant application to be accompanied by such information and
documents as may be specified in the regulations;

135.1.e

requiring a relevant application to be accompanied by such fee (if any) as may
be—

135.1.e.i

specified in the regulations, or

135.1.e.ii

determined, by the person to whom the application is made, in accordance with
the regulations;

135.1.f

about the matters to be taken into account in determining a relevant
application;

135.1.g

requiring a determination to be accompanied by reasons;

135.1.h

requiring determinations to be published;

135.1.i

conferring functions on the Secretary of State or the GEMA (including
functions involving the exercise of a discretion);

135.1.j

for anything falling to be determined under the regulations to be determined—

135.1.j.i

by the Secretary of State, the GEMA or another person specified in the
regulations, and

135.1.j.ii

in accordance with such procedure and by reference to such matters and to the
opinion of such persons as may be so specified.

135.2

“ Relevant application ” means an application within any of the following
paragraphs (whether made to the Secretary of State or the GEMA)—

135.2.a

an application by a designated person for the grant of a gas transporter
licence that authorises the conveyance of hydrogen through pipes for the
purposes of the person’s designated project;

135.2.b

an application by a designated person for the extension of a gas transporter
licence held by the person so that it authorises the conveyance of hydrogen
through pipes for the purposes of the person’s designated project;

135.2.c

an application by a person who is or has been designated for the restriction
of a gas transporter licence held by the person, in connection with the
person’s designation in relation to a hydrogen pipeline project ceasing to
have effect.

135.3

Provision made by virtue of subsection  (1) (j) (ii)  may in particular be
made by reference to a document as amended from time to time.

135.4

Regulations under this section—

135.4.a

may provide for cases in which an application is not required;

135.4.b

may provide for a relevant application that has been rejected by one person to
be dealt with afresh by another person.

135.5

Before making regulations under this section, the Secretary of State must
consult the GEMA.

135.6

Section 7B(1) to (2A) of the Gas Act 1986 does not apply to an application for
the grant, extension or restriction of a gas transporter licence so far as the
application is one to which regulations under this section apply.

135.7

Any sums received by the Secretary of State or the GEMA by virtue of this
section are to be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

135.8

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

135.9

For the purposes of section 5A(1) to (10) of the Utilities Act 2000 (duty of
the GEMA to carry out impact assessment), a function exercisable by the GEMA
by virtue of regulations under this section is to be treated as if it were a
function exercisable by it under or by virtue of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986.

#### Modification of gas transporter licence

##### Modification of gas transporter licence by Secretary of State

136

136.1

The Secretary of State may modify—

136.1.a

the conditions of a designated person’s gas transporter licence;

136.1.b

the terms of a designated person’s gas transporter licence;

136.1.c

the standard conditions incorporated in gas transporter licences by virtue of
section 8 of the Gas Act 1986;

136.1.d

a document maintained in accordance with the conditions of licences of a
relevant type or an agreement that gives effect to a document so maintained.

136.2

The Secretary of State may exercise the power under  subsection (1)  only for
the purpose of—

136.2.a

facilitating or supporting the financing of the design, construction,
commissioning or operation of a hydrogen pipeline project (or of hydrogen
pipeline projects generally), or

136.2.b

promoting value for money in connection with a hydrogen pipeline project (or
in connection with hydrogen pipeline projects generally).

136.3

When making modifications under  subsection (1) (a)  or  (b) , the Secretary
of State must have regard to—

136.3.a

the duties in sections 1 and 4(1)(b) of the Climate Change Act 2008 (carbon
targets and budgets);

136.3.b

the interests of existing and future consumers of gas conveyed through pipes,
including their interests in relation to the cost and security of supply of
gas;

136.3.c

costs, expenditure or liabilities of any description that the designated
person may reasonably be expected to incur in carrying out its activities;

136.3.d

the need to secure that the designated person is able to finance its
activities;

136.3.e

the need to secure that the designated person has appropriate incentives in
relation to the carrying on of its activities;

136.3.f

such other matters as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

In paragraph  (b) , “ gas ” has the same meaning as in Part 1 of the Gas Act
1986 (see section 48(1) of that Act).

136.4

The Secretary of State may modify the conditions or terms of a gas transporter
licence held by a person who is or was a designated person in connection with
the revocation of the person’s designation in relation to a hydrogen pipeline
project.

136.5

For the purposes of  subsection (1) , each of the following is a relevant type
of licence—

136.5.a

a gas transporter licence;

136.5.b

a licence under section 7A(1) of the Gas Act 1986 (gas supply licence);

136.5.c

a licence under section 7AA of that Act (gas system planner licence);

136.5.d

a licence under section 7AC of that Act (code manager licence).

136.6

References in this section to a designated person’s activities are to the
person’s activities for the purposes of—

136.6.a

the designated project to which the modification relates, and

136.6.b

any other designated project authorised by the person’s gas transporter
licence.

##### Scope of modification powers under 

137

137.1

Modifications made under  section 136 (1) (a)  may include, for example,
provision—

137.1.a

about the revenue that the designated person may receive in respect of its
activities (its “allowed revenue”);

137.1.b

about how the designated person’s allowed revenue is to be calculated;

137.1.c

about the amounts that the designated person is entitled to receive, or is
required to pay, under any hydrogen transport revenue support contract (within
the meaning of Chapter 1 of Part 2) to which it is a party;

137.1.d

about activities that the designated person must, may or may not carry on;

137.1.e

about the management of the designated person’s activities, including the
manner in which they are carried out;

137.1.f

conferring functions on the GEMA, including provision enabling or requiring
the designated person to refer for determination, decision or approval by the
GEMA matters specified, or of a description specified, in the licence;

137.1.g

for the amendment of the licence for the purpose of implementing a
determination or decision of the GEMA or the Competition and Markets
Authority;

137.1.h

requiring the designated person to comply with any direction or instruction,
or to have regard to any guidance, given by the GEMA in relation to matters
specified, or of a description specified, in the licence;

137.1.i

requiring the designated person to co-operate with the GEMA and to provide
such information and assistance to the GEMA as it may require for the purposes
of carrying out any of its functions;

137.1.j

about the payment by the designated person, to the GEMA or to the Competition
and Markets Authority, of such amounts as may be determined by or in
accordance with the licence;

137.1.k

about the disclosure or publication of information by the designated person.

137.2

Modifications made under  section 136 (1) (b)  may include, for example,
provision about the circumstances in which a licence may be revoked or
suspended.

137.3

The powers under  section 136 (1)  and  (4)  to “modify” include the power to
amend, add to or remove; and references to modification in  section 136 , this
section and  section 138  are to be construed accordingly.

137.4

The powers conferred by  section 136 (1)  and  (4) —

137.4.a

may be exercised generally, only in relation to specified cases, or subject to
exceptions (including by making provision for a case to be excepted only so
long as specified conditions are satisfied);

137.4.b

may be exercised differently for different purposes or areas;

137.4.c

include power to make incidental, supplementary, consequential or transitional
modifications.

137.5

Provision included in a gas transporter licence, or in a document or agreement
described in  section 136 (1) (d) , by virtue of  section 136 —

137.5.a

need not relate to the activities authorised by the licence;

137.5.b

may do anything authorised for gas transporter licences by section 7B(4A),
(5)(a), (6) or (7) of the Gas Act 1986.

137.6

The modification under  section 136 (1)  or  (4)  of part of a standard
condition of a gas transporter licence does not prevent any other part of the
condition from continuing to be regarded as a standard condition for the
purposes of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986.

137.7

In section 81(2) of the Utilities Act 2000 (standard conditions of gas
licences), after “ section 89 ” (as inserted by section  91 (13)  of this Act)
insert  “, section  136 (1)  or  (4) ” .

137.8

References in this section to a designated person’s activities are to the
person’s activities for the purposes of—

137.8.a

the designated project to which the modification relates, and

137.8.b

any other designated project authorised by the person’s gas transporter
licence.

##### Procedure etc relating to modifications under 

138

138.1

Before making a modification under  section 136 (1)  or  (4) , the Secretary
of State must consult—

138.1.a

the holder of any licence being modified,

138.1.b

the GEMA, and

138.1.c

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

138.2

If under  section 136 (1)  the Secretary of State modifies the standard
conditions of a gas transporter licence, the GEMA must—

138.2.a

make the same modification of those standard conditions for the purposes of
their incorporation in gas transporter licences granted after that time, and

138.2.b

publish the modification.

138.3

The Secretary of State must publish details of any modifications made under
section 136 (1)  and  (4)  as soon as reasonably practicable after they are
made.

138.4

The Secretary of State may exclude from publication under subsection  (3)  any
material the disclosure or publication of which the Secretary of State
considers—

138.4.a

would be likely to prejudice the commercial interests of any person, or

138.4.b

would be contrary to the interests of national security.

#### Information

##### Information and advice

139

139.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the provision
and publication of information and advice in connection with the carrying out
of functions of any person under or by virtue of this Part.

139.2

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (1)  includes
provision—

139.2.a

for the Secretary of State to require the GEMA to provide information to a
hydrogen transport counterparty or any other specified person;

139.2.b

for a hydrogen transport counterparty to require the GEMA to provide
information to it;

139.2.c

for the Secretary of State to require a designated person, a hydrogen
transport counterparty or any other specified person to provide information to
the GEMA;

139.2.d

for the GEMA to require a designated person, a hydrogen transport counterparty
or any other specified person to provide information to the GEMA;

139.2.e

for the Secretary of State to require a designated person, a hydrogen
transport counterparty, the GEMA or any other specified person to provide
information or advice to the Secretary of State or any other specified person;

139.2.f

for the classification and protection of confidential or sensitive
information;

139.2.g

for the enforcement of any requirement imposed by virtue of any of  paragraphs
(a)  to  (f) .

139.3

Section 105(1) of the Utilities Act 2000 (general restrictions on disclosure
of information) does not apply to a disclosure required by virtue of this
section.

139.4

The first regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative
procedure.

139.5

Any other regulations under this section are subject to the negative
procedure.

139.6

In this section—

      “ designated person ” includes a person who has been a designated
person;           “ hydrogen transport counterparty ” has the same meaning as
in  Chapter 1  of  Part 2  (see section  56 );           “ specified person ”
means a person specified, or of a description specified, in regulations under
this section.

139.7

See also section 34(4) of the Gas Act 1986 (general duty for the GEMA to give
information, advice and assistance to the Secretary of State or the
Competition and Markets Authority).

#### Conditions of gas transporter licences

##### Conditions of gas transporter licences for conveyance of hydrogen

140

140.1

For the purposes of this section, “ relevant licence ” means a gas transporter
licence so far as it authorises a person to convey hydrogen through pipes in
connection with the carrying on of a hydrogen pipeline project.

140.2

Without prejudice to the generality of section 7B(4)(a) of the Gas Act 1986
(conditions of licences), conditions described in subsection  (3)  may be
included in a relevant licence in respect of circumstances where a person
other than the licence holder (“the candidate”)—

140.2.a

has applied for, or is considering whether to apply for, a relevant licence,
or

140.2.b

is considering whether to apply for financial support for activities relating
to the production, transportation, storage or use of hydrogen.

140.3

The conditions referred to in subsection  (2)  are conditions that require the
licence holder to comply with a direction given by the Secretary of State or
the GEMA requiring the holder to provide to the candidate—

140.3.a

information in relation to the activities authorised by the licence, and

140.3.b

any other assistance that the candidate may reasonably require for the purpose
of determining whether to—

140.3.b.i

apply for a relevant licence, or

140.3.b.ii

apply for financial support as mentioned in  subsection (2) (b) .

140.4

A person (“ P ”) may not under section 8(3) of the Gas Act 1986 modify a
condition of a relevant licence unless P is of the opinion that the
modification is such that—

140.4.a

the licence holder would not be unduly disadvantaged in competing with one or
more other holders of relevant licences, and

140.4.b

no other holder of a relevant licence would be unduly disadvantaged in
competing with other holders of such licences (including the holder of the
relevant licence to be modified).

#### Other

##### Secretary of State directions to the GEMA

141

141.1

In exercising any functions it has in relation to relevant gas transporter
licences, the GEMA must comply with general or particular directions given to
it by the Secretary of State for the purpose of promoting value for money in
connection with a hydrogen pipeline project (or in connection with hydrogen
pipeline projects generally).

141.2

In  subsection (1) , “ relevant gas transporter licence ” means a gas
transporter licence, held by a designated person, that authorises the
conveyance of hydrogen through pipes in connection with the person’s
designated project.

##### Repeal of 

142

142.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations repeal any of the preceding
provisions of this Part.

142.2

So far as any of those provisions is still in force on a relevant date, the
Secretary of State must—

142.2.a

consider whether it is appropriate to repeal that provision, and

142.2.b

if satisfied that it is not appropriate to do so, publish a statement no later
than 3 months after that date explaining why not.

142.3

“Relevant date” in  subsection (2)  means 31 December 2040 and each five-year
anniversary of that date.

142.4

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

### New technology

#### Low-carbon heat schemes

##### Low-carbon heat schemes

143

143.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for the establishment
and operation of one or more low-carbon heat schemes.

143.2

A “low-carbon heat scheme” is a scheme for encouraging the supply or
installation in the United Kingdom of relevant heating appliances through the
imposition of low-carbon heat targets on persons to whom the scheme applies.

143.3

In this Chapter—

      “ low-carbon heat target ” means a target imposed by or under scheme
regulations;           “ relevant heating appliance ” means—         a heating
appliance that generates heat but is incapable of burning fossil fuels or peat
to do so, or           a heating appliance that generates heat by burning
fossil fuels or peat, but does so only as part of a wider system to supplement
heat from air, water or the ground.

143.4

In the definition of “relevant heating appliance” in  subsection (3) , “
fossil fuel ” means—

143.4.a

coal,

143.4.b

lignite,

143.4.c

natural gas (within the meaning of the Energy Act 1976),

143.4.d

crude liquid petroleum,

143.4.e

petroleum products (within the meaning of that Act), or

143.4.f

any substance produced directly or indirectly from a substance mentioned in
paragraphs (a)  to  (e) .

143.5

The provision made by sections  144  to  150  is without prejudice to the
generality of subsection  (1) .

143.6

In this Chapter, “ scheme regulations ” means regulations under  subsection
(1) .

##### Application of scheme

144

144.1

Scheme regulations that provide for the establishment of a low-carbon heat
scheme must identify—

144.1.a

the descriptions of person to whom the scheme applies;

144.1.b

the kinds of relevant heating appliance to which the scheme applies.

144.2

A person within a description identified by virtue of  subsection (1) (a)  is
referred to in this Chapter as a “scheme participant”.

144.3

Scheme regulations may—

144.3.a

set low-carbon heat targets, or

144.3.b

provide for low-carbon heat targets to be set in accordance with provision
made by the regulations.

Section  145  contains further provision about the setting of targets.

144.4

Scheme regulations must make provision about the period or periods in relation
to which low-carbon heat targets have effect.

144.5

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (4)  includes—

144.5.a

provision authorising things done by a scheme participant before the first
period in relation to which a low-carbon heat target has effect to be treated
as done by the scheme participant during that period;

144.5.b

provision authorising things done by a scheme participant during one period in
relation to which a low-carbon-heat target has effect to be treated instead as
done by the scheme participant during a different period in relation to which
such a target has effect.

##### Setting of targets etc

145

145.1

A low-carbon heat target may be set in whatever way, and by reference to
whatever criteria, the Secretary of State considers appropriate, and may for
example be set—

145.1.a

by reference to the carrying on of specified activities;

145.1.b

as a proportion of the activities of a scheme participant that must relate to
relevant heating appliances;

145.1.c

by reference to the average level of energy efficiency (determined in
accordance with scheme regulations) to be achieved in relation to heating
appliances, or specified descriptions of heating appliances, supplied or
installed by a scheme participant;

145.1.d

by reference to the average carbon intensity of heat generation (determined in
accordance with scheme regulations) of heating appliances, or specified
descriptions of heating appliances, supplied or installed by a scheme
participant;

145.1.e

where a scheme participant manufactures heating appliances, by specifying what
proportion of those heating appliances, or of specified heating appliances,
that are supplied or installed (whether or not by the scheme participant) must
be relevant heating appliances.

145.2

The power to specify an activity by virtue of  subsection (1) (a)  includes
power to specify circumstances or conditions relating to the carrying out of
the activity.

145.3

In the case of a low-carbon heat target that is imposed by virtue of
subsection  (1) (c)  or  (d)  on a scheme participant who manufactures heating
appliances, the target may be set by reference to heating appliances that are
supplied or installed (whether or not by the scheme participant).

145.4

Scheme regulations may confer a discretion on the Secretary of State or any
other person in connection with the setting of low-carbon heat targets.

145.5

The reference in subsection  (1) (d)  to the carbon intensity of heat
generation, in relation to an appliance, is a reference to the level of
greenhouse gas emissions per unit of heat generated by the appliance.

“ Greenhouse gas emissions ” means emissions of any greenhouse gas within the
meaning of section 92(1) of the Climate Change Act 2008.

145.6

Scheme regulations may provide—

145.6.a

for different weight to be given to different kinds of appliance or different
activities;

145.6.b

for low-carbon heat targets to be set at different levels for different kinds
of appliance or different activities.

145.7

Scheme regulations may provide for specified activities to count towards the
meeting of a low-carbon heat target.

145.8

In this section, “ specified ” means specified in scheme regulations.

##### Further provision about scheme regulations

146

146.1

Scheme regulations must provide for the making of determinations as to whether
a scheme participant has met a low-carbon heat target imposed on the scheme
participant.

146.2

Scheme regulations may make provision for monitoring the operation of a low-
carbon heat scheme, and may in particular make provision about—

146.2.a

the keeping of records by scheme participants and others;

146.2.b

the provision of information by scheme participants and others;

146.2.c

the audit and verification of information provided by scheme participants and
others.

146.3

Scheme regulations may make provision—

146.3.a

enabling scheme participants to pool or transfer low-carbon heat targets
imposed on them;

146.3.b

for the issuing of certificates representing activities or appliances to which
a low-carbon heat target relates;

146.3.c

enabling scheme participants to acquire certificates mentioned in  paragraph
(b)  for the purpose of meeting a low-carbon heat target;

146.3.d

about the keeping of records in relation to—

146.3.d.i

the pooling or transfer of low-carbon heat targets;

146.3.d.ii

the acquisition of certificates.

146.4

Scheme regulations may make provision—

146.4.a

requiring a scheme participant who fails to meet a low-carbon heat target to
make a payment, before a specified deadline, of an amount specified by or
determined in accordance with the regulations;

146.4.b

for a payment mentioned in  paragraph (a)  to be made to the administrator
(see  section 147 ) or to such other person as the regulations may specify;

146.4.c

for a person who fails to meet a low-carbon heat target to be subject to such
consequences (instead of or in addition to a requirement mentioned in
paragraph (a) ) as may be specified;

146.4.d

about how liability to make a payment, or to other consequences, is to be
determined where low-carbon heat targets have been pooled or transferred by
virtue of provision made under  subsection (3) (a) .

146.5

In subsection  (4) , “ specified ” means specified in scheme regulations.

##### Administration of scheme

147

147.1

Scheme regulations may provide for the appointment of a person as the
administrator of a low-carbon heat scheme.

147.2

Scheme regulations—

147.2.a

may confer functions on the administrator for the purposes of the scheme;

147.2.b

may authorise the administrator to arrange for another person to carry out any
functions of the administrator.

147.3

The functions that may be conferred on the administrator by virtue of
subsection (2)  include, for example, functions in connection with—

147.3.a

setting low-carbon heat targets;

147.3.b

determining whether low-carbon heat targets have been met;

147.3.c

obtaining information;

147.3.d

keeping records;

147.3.e

requiring scheme participants to make payments to the administrator in
connection with the costs of operating the scheme.

147.4

Only the following may be appointed as the administrator of a low-carbon heat
scheme—

147.4.a

the Secretary of State;

147.4.b

the Scottish Ministers;

147.4.c

the Welsh Ministers;

147.4.d

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland;

147.4.e

a public authority (other than a person within any of  paragraphs (a)  to  (d)
);

147.4.f

any combination of the above.

147.5

More than one person may be appointed as the administrator of a low-carbon
heat scheme.

147.6

Scheme regulations that appoint a public authority as the administrator of a
low-carbon heat scheme may make such amendments to primary legislation as the
Secretary of State considers appropriate for the purpose of enabling the
authority to carry out the functions conferred on it by the regulations.

147.7

In this section, “ public authority ” means a person with functions of a
public nature.

##### Enforcement, penalties and offences

148

148.1

Scheme regulations may authorise the administrator of a low-carbon heat
scheme—

148.1.a

to require the production of documents or the provision of information;

148.1.b

to question the officers of a company or other individuals;

148.1.c

to enter premises with a warrant;

148.1.d

to seize documents or records.

148.2

Scheme regulations may authorise the administrator of a low-carbon heat
scheme, in circumstances specified in the regulations—

148.2.a

to treat activities of a person (A) as activities of a different person (B)
for the purposes of the scheme, and

148.2.b

to treat a low-carbon heat target imposed on A as if it had been imposed on B.

148.3

Scheme regulations may provide that a person is liable to one or more
penalties in respect of a failure to comply with a requirement imposed on the
person by or under a low-carbon heat scheme.

148.4

Where by virtue of  subsection (3)  scheme regulations provide that a person
is liable to a financial penalty, the regulations—

148.4.a

may specify the amount of the penalty or provide for the amount of the penalty
to be determined in accordance with the regulations;

148.4.b

must provide for the penalty to be paid to the administrator or to such other
person as the regulations may specify.

148.5

Scheme regulations may create offences for failure to comply with a
requirement imposed by or under a low-carbon heat scheme.

148.6

Scheme regulations made by virtue of  subsection (5)  may provide for an
offence created by the regulations to be triable—

148.6.a

only summarily, or

148.6.b

either summarily or on indictment.

148.7

Scheme regulations made by virtue of  subsection (5)  may provide for an
offence created by the regulations to be punishable with a fine.

##### Application of sums paid by virtue of section 

149

149.1

Scheme regulations may make provision about the application of amounts paid by
virtue of section  146 (4) (a)  or  148 (3) .

149.2

Provision made by virtue of subsection  (1)  may require the payment of
amounts into the Consolidated Fund.

##### Appeals

150

150.1

Scheme regulations that, by virtue of  section 148 (3) , provide that a person
is liable to a financial penalty must also provide for a person to have a
right of appeal to a court or tribunal against the imposition of the penalty.

150.2

Scheme regulations may make provision about appeals against—

150.2.a

decisions made by the administrator of a low-carbon heat scheme, and

150.2.b

penalties imposed (other than financial penalties) or enforcement action taken
for failure to comply with a requirement imposed by or under a low-carbon heat
scheme.

150.3

Scheme regulations that make provision by virtue of subsection  (2)  must
specify the court, tribunal or person who is to hear and determine an appeal
made by virtue of that subsection.

##### Scheme regulations: procedure etc

151

151.1

Scheme regulations are subject to the negative procedure unless subsection
(2)  applies, in which case they are subject to the affirmative procedure.

151.2

This subsection applies if scheme regulations—

151.2.a

establish a low-carbon heat scheme;

151.2.b

extend the descriptions of person, or the kinds of relevant heating appliance,
to which a low-carbon heat scheme applies;

151.2.c

provide for new penalties;

151.2.d

increase the amount of existing financial penalties by more than is necessary
to reflect changes in the value of money;

151.2.e

create an offence or increase the fine for an existing offence;

151.2.f

confer new powers to enforce requirements imposed by or under a low-carbon
heat scheme;

151.2.g

amend primary legislation.

151.3

Scheme regulations may create exceptions to any requirement imposed by the
regulations.

151.4

Before making scheme regulations that apply in relation to Scotland, Wales or
Northern Ireland, the Secretary of State must give notice—

151.4.a

stating that the Secretary of State proposes to make scheme regulations,

151.4.b

setting out or describing the provisions of the regulations that apply in
relation to Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland, and

151.4.c

specifying the period (of not less than 28 days from the date on which the
notice is given) within which representations may be made with respect to
those provisions,

and must consider any representations duly made and not withdrawn.

151.5

A notice under  subsection (4)  must be given to each relevant devolved
authority, that is to say—

151.5.a

the Scottish Ministers, so far as the regulations apply in relation to
Scotland;

151.5.b

the Welsh Ministers, so far as the regulations apply in relation to Wales;

151.5.c

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, so far as the regulations
apply in relation to Northern Ireland.

151.6

The Secretary of State need not wait until the end of the period specified
under  subsection (4) (c)  before making regulations if, before the end of
that period, each relevant devolved authority to which the notice was given
has confirmed that it has made any representations it intends to make with
respect to the provisions referred to in  subsection (4) (b) .

151.7

The Secretary of State must, if requested to do so by a relevant devolved
authority, give the authority a statement setting out whether and how
representations made by the authority with respect to the provisions referred
to in  subsection (4) (b)  have been taken into account in the regulations.

##### Interpretation of Chapter 

152

In this Chapter—

      “ low-carbon heat scheme ” has the meaning given by  section 143 (2) ;
“ low-carbon heat target ” has the meaning given by  section 143 (3) ;
“ primary legislation ” means—         an Act,           an Act of the
Scottish Parliament,           a Measure or Act of Senedd Cymru, or
Northern Ireland legislation;                 “ relevant heating appliance ”
has the meaning given by  section 143 (3) ;           “ scheme participant ”
has the meaning given by  section 144 (2) ;           “ scheme regulations ”
has the meaning given by  section 143 (6) .

#### Hydrogen grid conversion trials

##### Modifications of the gas code

153

153.1

For the purposes of this section, “ hydrogen grid conversion trial ” means a
scheme designated by the Secretary of State that—

153.1.a

relates to a particular place or area (the “trial location”),

153.1.b

is designed to gather evidence for the purpose of enabling assessments to be
made about the feasibility, costs and benefits of using hydrogen for heating
or cooking,

153.1.c

requires the network for supplying gas to the trial location to be modified so
as to enable the supply of hydrogen, and

153.1.d

is intended to have effect for a definite period.

153.2

Schedule 2B to the Gas Act 1986 (the gas code) applies in relation to a
hydrogen grid conversion trial—

153.2.a

as if references to a gas transporter included a person (other than a gas
transporter) who is conducting the trial, and

153.2.b

as if it were modified in accordance with subsections  (3)  to  (5) .

153.3

Paragraph 16 (alterations etc of burners on change of calorific value) applies
as if—

153.3.a

in sub-paragraph (1), the words “at a rate not exceeding 75,000 therms a year”
were omitted, and

153.3.b

in sub-paragraph (2), the steps required to be taken in respect of premises in
the trial location also included any works required in respect of the premises
(other than works already mentioned in sub-paragraph (2)) for the purposes or
in consequence of the trial.

153.4

Paragraph 23 (entry of premises during supply) applies as if the power
conferred by sub-paragraph (1)(a) included power to enter premises in the
trial location for the purpose of inspecting anything on the premises, or
carrying out any tests on the premises, in preparation for or otherwise in
connection with the trial.

153.5

Paragraph 24 (entry of premises to discontinue supply) applies as if the power
conferred by sub-paragraph (2) were exercisable for the purposes of the trial—

153.5.a

in relation to any premises in the trial location, and

153.5.b

notwithstanding sub-paragraph (1).

153.6

For the purposes of the application of the Rights of Entry (Gas and
Electricity Boards) Act 1954 in relation to a relevant power of entry (see
paragraph 28(5) of Schedule 2B to the Gas Act 1986), the reference in section
1(2) of the 1954 Act to a gas operator includes a reference to a person (other
than a gas transporter) who is conducting a hydrogen grid conversion trial.

153.7

In subsection  (6) , “ relevant power of entry ” means a power of entry
conferred by Schedule 2B to the Gas Act 1986, as it applies by virtue of this
section in relation to a hydrogen grid conversion trial.

##### Regulations for protection of consumers

154

154.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision—

154.1.a

requiring a gas transporter to take specified steps to secure that consumers
in a trial location are properly informed about a hydrogen grid conversion
trial being conducted in the trial location;

154.1.b

requiring a gas transporter to take specified steps to secure that consumers
are given adequate warning of the need for their premises to be disconnected
for the purposes of a hydrogen grid conversion trial;

154.1.c

about the enforcement of requirements imposed by virtue of  paragraph (a)  or
(b) .

154.2

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may confer functions on gas transporters in
connection with the discharge of requirements imposed by the regulations.

154.3

The provision that may be made by virtue of subsection  (1) (c)  includes
provision for the imposition of civil penalties in respect of a failure to
comply with a requirement imposed by the regulations (but does not include
provision for the creation of a criminal offence).

154.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision designed to secure
protection for consumers and other people who are affected, or likely to be
affected, by a hydrogen grid conversion trial.

154.5

The provision that may be made by regulations under  subsection (4)  includes,
for example, provision—

154.5.a

about the making of complaints about the exercise by a gas transporter of a
power conferred by a relevant statutory provision;

154.5.b

about the award of redress in specified circumstances;

154.5.c

imposing requirements on gas transporters or other persons to provide
information to consumers and others;

154.5.d

for securing that consumers and others are not required to incur expenditure,
or are not otherwise financially disadvantaged, as a result of a hydrogen grid
conversion trial;

154.5.e

for securing fair treatment of consumers and others before, during and after a
hydrogen grid conversion trial;

154.5.f

about the quality of products provided to consumers and others and the quality
of works carried out on premises owned by consumers and others;

154.5.g

about the enforcement of requirements imposed by the regulations on gas
transporters or other persons.

154.6

The provision that may be made by virtue of subsection  (5) (g)  includes
provision for the imposition of civil penalties in respect of a failure to
comply with a requirement imposed by the regulations (but does not include
provision for the creation of a criminal offence).

154.7

Where regulations under this section make provision for a civil penalty, they
must also include provision for a right of appeal to a court or tribunal
against the imposition of the penalty.

154.8

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

154.9

In this section—

      “ consumer ” and “disconnected” have the same meaning as in Schedule 2B
to the Gas Act 1986 (see paragraph 1(1) of that Schedule);           “ gas
transporter ” means—         a gas transporter within the meaning of Part 1 of
the Gas Act 1986 (see section 7 of that Act), or           any other person
who—         is conducting a hydrogen grid conversion trial, and
does not require a licence under section 7 of the Gas Act 1986 as a result of
an exemption under section 6A of that Act;                       “ hydrogen
grid conversion trial ” and “trial location” have the same meaning as in
section 153 ;           “ specified ” means specified by regulations.

#### Miscellaneous

##### Hydrogen

###### Power to modify Gas Act 1986 in relation to hydrogen

155

155.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide for any provision of the Gas
Act 1986—

155.1.a

not to apply, or

155.1.b

to apply with modifications specified in the regulations,

in relation to the production, transportation, storage or use of hydrogen.

155.2

The power under  subsection (1)  may be exercised by amending the Gas Act
1986.

155.3

The power under  subsection (1)  may be exercised only for the purpose of
facilitating or promoting the production, transportation, storage or use of
hydrogen.

155.4

Before exercising the power under  subsection (1) , the Secretary of State
must consult—

155.4.a

the GEMA, and

155.4.b

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

155.5

Regulations under  subsection (1)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Fusion energy

###### Fusion energy facilities: nuclear site licence not required

156

156.1

Section 1 of the Nuclear Installations Act 1965 (restriction of certain
nuclear installations to licensed sites) is amended as follows.

156.2

After subsection (2) insert—

156.2.2A

Subsection (1) does not apply to a fusion energy facility.

156.2.2B

In subsection (2A), “ fusion energy facility ” means a site that is—

156.2.2B.a

used for the purpose of installing or operating any plant designed or adapted
for the production of electrical energy or heat by fusion, and

156.2.2B.b

not also used for the purpose of installing or operating a nuclear reactor.

##### Renewable and sustainable fuel

###### Treatment of recycled carbon fuel and nuclear-derived fuel as renewable transport fuel

157

After section 131C of the Energy Act 2004 insert—

########## Recycled carbon fuel and nuclear-derived fuel

157.131D

157.131D.1

An RTF order may—

157.131D.1.a

designate as recycled carbon fuel a description of liquid or gaseous fuel
which is produced wholly from waste derived from a fossil source of energy;

157.131D.1.b

designate as nuclear-derived fuel a description of liquid or gaseous fuel
which is produced wholly using, or by a process powered wholly by, nuclear
fuel.

157.131D.2

Where a designation under subsection  (1)  is in force, the recycled carbon
fuel or nuclear-derived fuel is to be treated for the purposes of this Chapter
and any RTF order as renewable transport fuel.

###### Revenue certainty scheme for sustainable aviation fuel producers: consultation and report

158

158.1

The Secretary of State must carry out a public consultation on the options for
designing and implementing a sustainable aviation fuel revenue certainty
scheme.

158.2

A “sustainable aviation fuel revenue certainty scheme” is a scheme whose
purpose is to give producers of sustainable aviation fuel greater certainty
than they otherwise would have about the revenue that they will earn from
sustainable aviation fuel that they produce.

158.3

The Secretary of State must open the consultation within the period of 6
months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed.

158.4

The Secretary of State must bring the consultation to the attention of, in
particular, such of each of the following as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate—

158.4.a

producers of sustainable aviation fuel;

158.4.b

suppliers of sustainable aviation fuel;

158.4.c

airlines.

158.5

The Secretary of State must, within the period of 18 months beginning with the
day on which this Act is passed, lay before Parliament a report on progress
made towards the development of a sustainable aviation fuel revenue certainty
scheme.

158.6

In this section, “ sustainable aviation fuel ” means aviation turbine fuel
whose use (as compared with the use of other aviation turbine fuel) will, in
the opinion of the Secretary of State, contribute to a reduction in emissions
of greenhouse gases; and for this purpose—

      “ aviation turbine fuel ” has the meaning given by article 3(1B) of the
Renewable Transport Fuel Obligations Order 2007 ( S.I. 2007/3072 );
“ greenhouse gas ” has the meaning given by section 92(1) of the Climate
Change Act 2008.

###### Renewable liquid heating fuel obligations

159

159.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations subject off-grid heating fuel
suppliers (or off-grid heating fuel suppliers of a particular description) to
an obligation in respect of renewable liquid heating fuel that corresponds to
or is similar to the obligation mentioned in section 124(2) of the Energy Act
2004 (renewable transport fuel obligation).

159.2

The regulations may, for any purpose connected with that obligation, make
provision corresponding to or similar to any provision made by, or that may be
made under, Chapter 5 of Part 2 of the Energy Act 2004 (powers etc relating to
renewable transport fuel obligation).

159.3

Before making regulations under this section, the Secretary of State must
consult such persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

159.4

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

159.5

In this section—

      “ off-grid heating fuel supplier ” means a person who, in the course of
business, supplies any—         renewable liquid heating fuel,
fossil fuel, or           other fuel, apart from solid fuel,         at or for
delivery to places in Great Britain with a view to its being used wholly or
mainly for the purpose of heating buildings to which there is no mains gas
supply;           “ renewable liquid heating fuel ” means fuel that is
typically supplied or stored in a liquid state and that is—         biofuel or
blended biofuel, or           fuel (other than fossil fuel or nuclear fuel)
produced—         wholly by energy from a renewable source, or
wholly by a process powered wholly by such energy;

and “biofuel”, “ blended biofuel ”, “ fossil fuel ” and “ renewable source ”
have the meanings given in section 132 of the Energy Act 2004.

##### Removals of greenhouse gases

###### Climate Change Act 2008: meaning of “UK removals”

160

In section 29(1)(b) of the Climate Change Act 2008 (UK emissions and removals
of greenhouse gases), for “land use, land-use change or forestry” substitute
“processes, mechanisms or” .

### Independent System Operator and Planner

#### Independent System Operator and Planner: functions and designation

##### The Independent System Operator and Planner (“the ISOP”)

161

161.1

This Part contains provision about the Independent System Operator and Planner
(referred to in this Part as “ the ISOP ”).

161.2

The functions of the ISOP include—

161.2.a

functions conferred by or by virtue of this Act, which include functions
relating to the matters mentioned in subsection  (3) , and

161.2.b

whatever other functions are conferred on the ISOP by or by virtue of any
enactment other than one contained in this Act.

161.3

The matters referred to in subsection  (2) (a)  are—

161.3.a

co-ordinating and directing the flow of electricity onto and over transmission
systems;

161.3.b

making and administering arrangements for the provision of services for the
purpose of facilitating the co-ordination of the flow of electricity onto and
over transmission systems;

161.3.c

carrying out strategic planning and forecasting in connection with—

161.3.c.i

the development of transmission systems,

161.3.c.ii

the provision of services referred to in  paragraph (b) , and

161.3.c.iii

other arrangements relating to the conveyance or supply of electricity;

161.3.d

carrying out strategic planning and forecasting in connection with—

161.3.d.i

the development of pipe-line systems for the conveyance of gas, and

161.3.d.ii

other arrangements relating to the conveyance or supply of gas;

161.3.e

providing advice, analysis or information in relation to the matters mentioned
in section  171 (1) .

##### Designation etc

162

162.1

The Secretary of State may by notice designate a person as the ISOP.

162.2

A notice under  subsection (1) —

162.2.a

must specify the time from which the designation has effect;

162.2.b

must be published by the Secretary of State as soon as reasonably practicable
after the notice is given.

162.3

The Secretary of State must ensure that a person is designated under
subsection (1)  at all times after a person is first designated (but at any
time not more than one person may be designated).

162.4

The Secretary of State may by notice revoke a person’s designation under
subsection (1) .

162.5

A notice under subsection  (4) —

162.5.a

must specify the time from which the revocation has effect;

162.5.b

must be published by the Secretary of State as soon as reasonably practicable
after the notice is given.

#### General duties

##### Duty to promote particular objectives

163

163.1

The ISOP must carry out its functions in the way that it considers is best
calculated to promote—

163.1.a

the net zero objective;

163.1.b

the security of supply objective;

163.1.c

the efficiency and economy objective.

163.2

The net zero objective is the objective of enabling the Secretary of State to
meet the duties imposed by—

163.2.a

section 1 of the Climate Change Act 2008 (net UK carbon account target for
2050), and

163.2.b

section 4(1)(b) of that Act (UK carbon account not to exceed carbon budget).

163.3

The security of supply objective is the objective of ensuring the security of
supply, to existing and future consumers, of—

163.3.a

electricity conveyed by distribution systems or transmission systems, and

163.3.b

gas conveyed through pipes.

163.4

The efficiency and economy objective is the objective of promoting—

163.4.a

efficient, co-ordinated and economical systems for the distribution and
transmission of electricity and the conveyance of gas;

163.4.b

efficiency (including the efficient use of energy) and economy on the part of
persons who carry out relevant activities within subsection  (5) (a) ,  (b)
or  (c) .

163.5

In this Part, “ relevant activity ” means any of the following, so far as
carried out in the course of a business—

163.5.a

an activity mentioned in section 5(1) of the Gas Act 1986 (gas transportation,
interconnection, supply, shipping, system planning, smart meter communication,
code management);

163.5.b

an activity mentioned in section 4(1) of the Electricity Act 1989 (electricity
generation, transmission, distribution, supply, interconnection, multi-purpose
interconnection, system operation, smart meter communication, code
management);

163.5.c

an activity, other than an activity within paragraph  (a)  or  (b) , in
respect of which the ISOP has functions;

163.5.d

an activity, other than an activity within paragraph  (a) ,  (b)  or  (c) ,
that is connected with—

163.5.d.i

the production, conveyance, storage or supply of energy,

163.5.d.ii

the reduction of UK emissions of targeted greenhouse gases arising from the
production, conveyance, storage, supply or consumption of energy, or

163.5.d.iii

data relating to any matter within sub-paragraph  (i)  or  (ii) , or to demand
for or consumption of energy.

163.6

For the purposes of  subsection (5) (d) —

163.6.a

“ energy ” means energy in any form and includes fuel or other substances used
to produce energy;

163.6.b

references to the production of energy include references to the conversion of
energy from one form to another;

163.6.c

references to the supply of energy include references to adjusting consumption
of energy (whether generally, at particular times, or by particular persons);

163.6.d

an activity referred to in  paragraph (d) (i)  is not a relevant activity when
carried out in relation to products for human or animal consumption;

163.6.e

“UK emissions of targeted greenhouse gases” are emissions of such gases as
are, or are treated for the purposes of Part 1 of the Climate Change Act 2008
as, emissions from sources in the United Kingdom.

163.7

In  this section , “ targeted greenhouse gas ” has the same meaning as in Part
1 of the Climate Change Act 2008 (see section 24 of that Act).

##### Duty to have regard to particular matters

164

164.1

The ISOP must, when carrying out its functions, have regard to—

164.1.a

the need to facilitate competition between persons who carry out a relevant
activity (except to the extent that such persons are, in accordance with or by
virtue of an enactment, not subject to competition in relation to the
activity);

164.1.b

the consumer impact of a relevant activity;

164.1.c

the whole-system impact of a relevant activity;

164.1.d

the desirability of facilitating innovation in relation to the carrying out of
relevant activities.

164.2

The reference in subsection  (1) (b)  to the consumer impact of a relevant
activity is a reference to the impact (or likely impact) of—

164.2.a

the behaviour of persons who carry out the activity on existing and future
consumers, and

164.2.b

the behaviour of existing and future consumers on the carrying out of the
activity.

164.3

The reference in  subsection (1) (c)  to the whole-system impact of a relevant
activity is a reference to the impact (or likely impact) of—

164.3.a

the carrying out of the activity, and

164.3.b

the behaviour of existing and future consumers in relation to the carrying out
of the activity,

in relation to the carrying out of other relevant activities.

##### Duty to have regard to strategy and policy statement

165

165.1

The ISOP must, when carrying out its functions, have regard to the strategic
priorities set out in the current strategy and policy statement.

165.2

The ISOP must give notice to the Secretary of State if at any time the ISOP
concludes that a policy outcome contained in the current strategy and policy
statement is not realistically achievable.

165.3

A notice under  subsection (2)  must include—

165.3.a

the grounds on which the conclusion was reached;

165.3.b

what (if anything) the ISOP is doing or proposes to do for the purpose of
furthering the delivery of the outcome so far as reasonably practicable.

165.4

In this section—

      “ the current strategy and policy statement ” means the statement for
the time being designated under section 131(1) of the Energy Act 2013;
“ policy outcome ” and “strategic priorities” have the same meaning as in Part
5 of the Energy Act 2013 (see section 131(5) of that Act).

165.5

Part 5 of the Energy Act 2013 is amended as follows.

165.6

In section 131 (designation of strategy and policy statement)—

165.6.a

in subsection (2)(c), after “Authority” insert  “, the Independent System
Operator and Planner” ;

165.6.b

in subsection (5), after the definition of “the 1986 Act” insert—

      “ Independent System Operator and Planner ” means the person for the
time being designated under  section 162 (1)  of the Energy Act 2023;

.

165.7

Section 134 (review of strategy and policy statement) is amended as follows.

165.8

In subsection (4), after paragraph (b) insert—

165.8.ba

the Independent System Operator and Planner has given notice to the Secretary
of State under  section 165 (2)  of the Energy Act 2023 since the relevant
time,

.

165.9

After subsection (5) insert—

165.9.5A

The Secretary of State may also review the strategy and policy statement at
any other time if the Secretary of State considers it appropriate to do so in
preparation for or in connection with the designation of a person under
section 162 (1)  of the Energy Act 2023 (Independent System Operator and
Planner).

165.10

In subsection (10), after paragraph (a) insert—

165.10.aa

the Independent System Operator and Planner,

.

165.11

In section 135(4) (procedural requirements in relation to strategy and policy
statement), after paragraph (a) insert—

165.11.aa

the Independent System Operator and Planner,

.

#### Licences

##### Licensing of electricity system operator activity

166

166.1

Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989 is amended as follows.

166.2

In section 4(1) (prohibition on unlicensed supply, transmission etc of
electricity), after paragraph (c) insert—

166.2.ca

co-ordinates and directs the flow of electricity onto and over transmission
systems by means of which the transmission of electricity takes place;

.

166.3

Section 6 (licences authorising supply, etc) is amended as follows.

166.4

In subsection (1), after paragraph (d) insert—

166.4.da

subject to subsections  (1ZB)  and  (2ZA) , a licence authorising a person to
co-ordinate and direct the flow of electricity onto and over transmission
systems by means of which the transmission of electricity takes place (“an
electricity system operator licence”);

.

166.5

After subsection (1) insert—

166.5.1ZA

Subject to subsection  (2ZA) , the Secretary of State may grant an electricity
system operator licence.

166.5.1ZB

The first electricity system operator licence may only be granted by the
Secretary of State.

166.5.1ZC

For the purposes of this section, references to the grant of an electricity
system operator licence include the giving of a direction under section  167
of the Energy Act 2023 in respect of a transmission licence.

166.6

After subsection (2) insert—

166.6.2ZA

A person may not be granted an electricity system operator licence unless the
same person—

166.6.2ZA.a

already holds a licence granted under section 7AA of the Gas Act 1986, or

166.6.2ZA.b

is granted such a licence at the same time as the person is granted an
electricity system operator licence.

166.7

In subsection (2A), for “(d)” substitute  “(da)” .

166.8

In subsection (8), after “term of the licence” insert  “and subject to” .

166.9

After subsection (8) insert—

166.9.8A

If a person who holds an electricity system operator licence ceases at any
time to hold a licence under section 7AA of the Gas Act 1986, the person is to
be treated as ceasing to hold the electricity system operator licence at the
same time.

166.10

In section 7A (transfer of licences), after subsection (11) insert—

166.10.11ZA

An electricity system operator licence may not be transferred to a person
unless a licence granted under section 7AA of the Gas Act 1986 is also
transferred to the same person at the same time.

##### Direction for transmission licence to have effect as electricity system operator licence

167

167.1

The Secretary of State may (instead of granting an electricity system operator
licence) direct that a pre-commencement transmission licence is to have effect
as an electricity system operator licence.

167.2

A direction under this section may provide that a licence that has effect by
virtue of the direction includes such terms and conditions as are specified,
or of a description specified, in the direction (regardless of whether or the
extent to which those terms and conditions were included in the pre-
commencement transmission licence).

167.3

A direction under this section may provide for the continued effect (in
accordance with the direction) of rights, liabilities and obligations that
have effect immediately before the relevant date in connection with—

167.3.a

a pre-commencement transmission licence,

167.3.b

a document maintained in accordance with the conditions of such a licence, or

167.3.c

an agreement that gives effect to such a document.

167.4

In subsection  (3) , “ the relevant date ” means the date on which the
direction takes effect.

167.5

A direction under  this section  may make—

167.5.a

incidental, consequential, supplementary and transitional provision;

167.5.b

such amendments relating to the revocation of a pre-commencement transmission
licence as the Secretary of State considers appropriate;

167.5.c

different provision for different purposes.

167.6

Before giving a direction under this section, the Secretary of State must
consult—

167.6.a

the GEMA, and

167.6.b

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

167.7

Subsection  (6)  may be satisfied by consultation before the passing of this
Act (as well as by consultation after that time).

167.8

In  this Part —

      “ electricity system operator licence ” means a licence under section
6(1)(da) of the Electricity Act 1989 (as inserted by  section 166 );
“ pre-commencement transmission licence ” means a licence under section
6(1)(b) of the Electricity Act 1989 that is in force immediately before  this
section  comes into force.

##### Licensing of gas system planning activity

168

168.1

The Gas Act 1986 is amended as follows.

168.2

In section 5 (prohibition on unlicensed activities), in subsection (1)—

168.2.a

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (c);

168.2.b

after that paragraph insert—

168.2.b.ca

carries out planning and forecasting functions of the Independent System
Operator and Planner;

;

168.2.c

after subsection (10) insert—

168.2.c.10A

In subsection (5)(1)(ca), “ planning and forecasting functions of the
Independent System Operator and Planner ” means functions that—

168.2.c.10A.a

are conferred by or by virtue of an enactment on a person who is designated
under  section 162 (1)  of the Energy Act 2023, and

168.2.c.10A.b

relate to strategic planning and forecasting in connection with the
development of pipe-line systems operated by gas transporters for the
conveyance of gas.

168.3

After section 7A insert—

########### Licensing of a person carrying out gas system planner functions

168.3.7AA

168.3.7AA.1

Subject to subsections (3) and (4), the Authority may grant a licence
authorising a person to carry out planning and forecasting functions of the
Independent System Operator and Planner (“a gas system planner licence”).

168.3.7AA.2

Subject to subsection (4), the Secretary of State may grant a gas system
planner licence.

168.3.7AA.3

The first gas system planner licence may only be granted by the Secretary of
State.

168.3.7AA.4

A person may not be granted a gas system planner licence unless either of the
following paragraphs applies to the person—

168.3.7AA.4.a

the person—

168.3.7AA.4.a.i

already holds an electricity system operator licence, or

168.3.7AA.4.a.ii

is treated as holding such a licence by virtue of a direction under section
167  of the Energy Act 2023;

168.3.7AA.4.b

the person is granted an electricity system operator licence, or is treated by
virtue of a direction under section  167  of the Energy Act 2023 as having
been granted such a licence, at the same time as the person is granted a gas
system planner licence.

168.3.7AA.5

In this section—

      “ electricity system operator licence ” means a licence under section
6(1)(da) of the Electricity Act 1989;           “ planning and forecasting
functions of the Independent System Operator and Planner ” has the meaning
given by section 5(10A).

168.4

In section 7B (licences: general)—

168.4.a

in subsection (3), after “contained in it” insert  “and subject to subsection
(3A)” ;

168.4.b

after subsection (3) insert—

168.4.b.3A

If a person who holds a gas system planner licence ceases at any time to hold
a licence under section 6(1)(da) of the Electricity Act 1989, the person is to
be treated as ceasing to hold the gas system planner licence at the same time.

168.5

In section 8AA (transfer of licences), after subsection (11) insert—

168.5.11ZA

A gas system planner licence may not be transferred to a person unless a
licence granted under section 6(1)(da) of the Electricity Act 1989 is also
transferred to the same person at the same time.

##### Modification of licences etc

169

169.1

A relevant authority may modify—

169.1.a

the conditions of a particular relevant licence;

169.1.b

the standard conditions of relevant licences of a particular type;

169.1.c

a relevant document.

169.2

A relevant authority may revoke a pre-commencement transmission licence where—

169.2.a

the licence authorises the holder to co-ordinate and direct the flow of
electricity onto and over a transmission system by means of which the
transmission of electricity takes place, and

169.2.b

the first electricity system operator licence has been granted to a person.

169.3

A relevant authority may exercise the power under  subsection (1)  or  (2)
only—

169.3.a

in preparation for the designation of a person under  section 162 (1) , or

169.3.b

in connection with or in consequence of the designation of a person under that
provision.

169.4

A relevant authority may also exercise the power under subsection  (1)  where—

169.4.a

the operation or management of a relevant document is affected by steps taken
in connection with the designation of a person under  section 162 (1)  or by
the preparation for such a designation, and

169.4.b

the authority considers it appropriate to exercise the power in connection
with the operation or management of a relevant document.

169.5

The Secretary of State may direct the GEMA to exercise the power under
subsection (1)  or  (2)  if the Secretary of State considers it appropriate
for the GEMA to exercise that power.

169.6

A relevant authority may not exercise the power under  subsection (1)  or  (2)
after the end of the period of 3 years beginning with the day on which the
first designation under  section 162 (1)  has effect.

169.7

In this section—

“ pre-commencement transmission licence ” has the same meaning as in section
167 ; “ relevant authority ” means the Secretary of State or the GEMA; “
relevant document ” means a document maintained in accordance with the
conditions of a relevant licence.

##### Procedure relating to modifications under 

170

170.1

Before making a modification under  section 169 , a relevant authority must—

170.1.a

publish a notice about the proposed modification,

170.1.b

send a copy of the notice to the persons listed in subsection  (2) , and

170.1.c

consider any representations made within the period specified in the notice
about the proposed modification or the date from which it would take effect.

170.2

The persons mentioned in  subsection (1) (b)  are—

170.2.a

each relevant licence holder;

170.2.b

the GEMA (where the relevant authority is the Secretary of State) or the
Secretary of State (where the relevant authority is the GEMA);

170.2.c

the National Association of Citizens Advice Bureaux;

170.2.d

the Scottish Association of Citizens Advice Bureaux;

170.2.e

Consumer Scotland;

170.2.f

the General Consumer Council for Northern Ireland, unless the relevant
authority does not consider it appropriate for the Council to be sent a copy
of the notice in a particular case;

170.2.g

where the proposed modification relates to a licence for the purposes of
section 5 of the Gas Act 1986, the Health and Safety Executive;

170.2.h

such other persons as the relevant authority considers appropriate.

170.3

A notice under  subsection (1)  must—

170.3.a

state that the relevant authority proposes to make a modification;

170.3.b

set out the proposed modification and its effect;

170.3.c

specify the date from which the relevant authority proposes that the
modification will have effect;

170.3.d

state the reasons why the relevant authority proposes to make the
modification.

170.4

If, after complying with subsections  (1)  to  (3)  in relation to a
modification, the relevant authority decides to make the modification, it must
publish a notice about the decision.

170.5

A notice under subsection  (4)  must—

170.5.a

state that the relevant authority has decided to make the modification;

170.5.b

set out the modification and its effect;

170.5.c

specify the date from which the modification has effect;

170.5.d

state how the relevant authority has taken account of any representations made
in the period specified in the notice under  subsection (1) ;

170.5.e

state the reason for any differences between the modification set out in the
notice and the proposed modification.

170.6

A notice under this section about a modification or decision must be published
in such manner as the relevant authority considers appropriate for bringing it
to the attention of those likely to be affected by the making of the
modification or decision.

170.7

References in this section to the making of a modification, in relation to a
relevant licence, include references to the revocation of the licence.

170.8

In this section, “relevant licence holder”—

170.8.a

in relation to the modification of standard conditions of relevant licences of
any type, means the holder of a licence of that type—

170.8.a.i

that is to be modified by the inclusion of a new standard condition, or

170.8.a.ii

that includes any standard conditions to which the modification relates that
are in effect at the end of the period specified by virtue of  subsection (1)
(c) ;

170.8.b

in relation to the modification of a condition of a particular relevant
licence (other than a standard condition), means the holder of that licence;

170.8.c

in relation to the modification of a document maintained in accordance with
the conditions of a relevant licence of a particular type, means the holder of
a relevant licence of that type;

170.8.d

in relation to the revocation of a relevant licence, means the holder of that
licence.

170.9

In this section, “ relevant authority ” means the Secretary of State or the
GEMA.

#### Advice, analysis and information

##### Provision of advice, analysis or information

171

171.1

The ISOP must, so far as reasonably practicable, comply with a request by a
person within  subsection (2)  for the provision of advice, analysis or
information to the person in connection with—

171.1.a

any of the ISOP’s functions,

171.1.b

any of the objectives listed in section  163 (1) , or

171.1.c

any of the matters listed in  section 164 (1) .

171.2

The persons within this subsection are—

171.2.a

a Minister of the Crown (within the meaning of the Ministers of the Crown Act
1975: see section 8(1) of that Act);

171.2.b

the GEMA.

171.3

The ISOP must, so far as reasonably practicable, comply with a request made
under  subsection (1)  within such period, and in such form and manner, as the
person making the request may reasonably require.

##### Power to require information from regulated persons etc

172

172.1

The ISOP may by notice request from a person within  subsection (2)  such
information as the ISOP reasonably requires in connection with the exercise of
any of its functions.

172.2

A person is within this subsection if—

172.2.a

the person carries out a relevant activity, or

172.2.b

the ISOP reasonably considers that the person intends to carry out a relevant
activity.

172.3

A person to whom a request is made under  subsection (1)  must, so far as
reasonably practicable, provide the requested information within such period,
and in such form and manner, as may be specified in the notice.

172.4

Where a requirement under  subsection (3)  is imposed on a regulated person
(as defined by section 25(8) of the Electricity Act 1989), it is enforceable
by the GEMA as if it were a relevant requirement imposed on the person for the
purposes of section 25 of that Act.

172.5

Where a requirement under  subsection (3)  is imposed on a regulated person
(as defined by section 28(8) of the Gas Act 1986), it is enforceable by the
GEMA as if it were a relevant requirement imposed on the person for the
purposes of section 28 of that Act.

172.6

Where neither of  subsections (4)  and  (5)  applies, the duty imposed under
subsection (3)  on a person is enforceable by the ISOP in civil proceedings—

172.6.a

for an injunction,

172.6.b

for specific performance of a statutory duty under section 45 of the Court of
Session Act 1988, or

172.6.c

for any other appropriate remedy or relief.

172.7

Nothing in this section requires a disclosure of information that would
contravene the data protection legislation (within the meaning of the Data
Protection Act 2018 - see section 3 of that Act).

In determining whether a disclosure would do so, the duty imposed by
subsection (3)  is to be taken into account.

##### Duty to keep developments in energy sector under review

173

The ISOP must keep under review developments relating to the energy sector
that may be relevant to the carrying out of any of the ISOP’s functions.

#### Transfers, pensions and financial assistance

##### Transfers

174

Schedule 9  contains—

174.a

in  Part 1 , provision about transfer schemes relating to the ISOP;

174.b

in  Part 2 , related provision about transfers and other provision in
connection with the designation of a person as the ISOP.

##### Pension arrangements

175

Schedule 10  contains provision about pension arrangements in connection with
the ISOP.

##### Financial assistance for the ISOP

176

176.1

The Secretary of State may provide financial assistance to the ISOP.

176.2

Financial assistance under this section may be provided in any form and in
particular may be provided by way of—

176.2.a

grant,

176.2.b

loan,

176.2.c

guarantee or indemnity, or

176.2.d

the acquisition of shares or any other interest in, or securities of, a body
corporate.

176.3

Financial assistance under this section may be provided subject to such
conditions as the Secretary of State considers appropriate (which may include
conditions about repayment with or without interest or other return).

##### Cross-sectoral funding

177

177.1

In section 7 of the Electricity Act 1989 (conditions of licences: general), in
subsection (3A)—

177.1.a

for “or a distribution licence” substitute  “, a distribution licence or an
electricity system operator licence” ;

177.1.b

in paragraph (a), for “his charges for the transmission or distribution of
electricity” substitute  “the charges payable to the holder in connection with
the transmission or distribution of electricity, or in connection with the
exercise of any other functions under or by virtue of the licence,” ;

177.1.c

in paragraph (b), for “licence holders” substitute  “holders of licences under
section 6 or under Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986” .

177.2

In section 9 of that Act (general duties of licence holders), after subsection
(2A) insert—

177.2.2B

The conditions of a licence held by a person to which a duty imposed by
subsection (1) or (2) applies may include a condition requiring the person, in
performing the duty, to have regard to the interests of existing and future
consumers in relation to gas conveyed through pipes (within the meaning of the
Gas Act 1986).

177.3

In section 7B of the Gas Act 1986 (licences: general), in subsection (5)(b)—

177.3.a

after “section 7” insert  “or 7AA” ;

177.3.b

in sub-paragraph (i), for “his charges for the conveyance of gas” substitute
“the charges payable to the holder in connection with the conveyance of gas,
or in connection with the exercise of any other functions under or by virtue
of the licence,” ;

177.3.c

in sub-paragraph (ii), for the words from “licences under” to “above”
substitute  “licences under  this Part  or under section 6 of the Electricity
Act 1989” .

177.4

In section 9 of that Act (general powers and duties of gas transporters),
after subsection (2) insert—

177.4.2A

The conditions of a licence held by a gas transporter may include a condition
requiring the gas transporter, in performing a duty under subsection (1), (1A)
or (2), to have regard to the interests of existing and future consumers in
relation to electricity conveyed by distribution systems or transmission
systems (within the meaning of the Electricity Act 1989).

#### Other

##### Principal objective and general duties of Secretary of State and GEMA under Part 

178

178.1

Sections 3A to 3D of the Electricity Act 1989 and sections 4AA to 4B of the
Gas Act 1986 (principal objective and general duties) apply in relation to the
functions of the Secretary of State under sections  162  and  167  as they
apply in relation to functions under Part 1 of the Act in question.

178.2

Where the Secretary of State or the GEMA has functions under section  169 ,
170  or  172  in relation to a licence under section 6(1) of the Electricity
Act 1989, sections 3A to 3D of that Act apply in relation to those functions
as they apply in relation to functions under Part 1 of that Act.

178.3

Where the Secretary of State or the GEMA has functions under section  169 ,
170  or  172  in relation to a licence under section 7, 7ZA, 7A, 7AA, 7AB or
7AC of the Gas Act 1986, sections 4AA to 4B of that Act apply in relation to
those functions as they apply in relation to functions under Part 1 of that
Act.

##### Minor and consequential amendments

179

Schedule 11  contains further amendments to the Electricity Act 1989 and the
Gas Act 1986.

##### Interpretation of Part 

180

180.1

In this Part—

“ distribution system ” has the same meaning as in Part 1 of the Electricity
Act 1989 (see section 4(4) of that Act); “ electricity system operator licence
” has the meaning given by section  167 (8) ; “ gas ” has the same meaning as
in Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986 (see section 48(1) of that Act); “ relevant
activity ” has the meaning given by section  163 (5) ; “ relevant licence ”
means a licence for the purposes of section 4 of the Electricity Act 1989 or
section 5 of the Gas Act 1986 (prohibitions on unlicensed activities); “
transmission system ” has the same meaning as in Part 1 of the Electricity Act
1989 (see section 4(4) of that Act).

180.2

References in this Part to the distribution, generation, supply or
transmission of electricity are to be construed in accordance with section
4(4) of the Electricity Act 1989.

180.3

For the purposes of this Part, references to the ISOP’s functions are to any
functions that are exercisable by the person for the time being designated as
the ISOP (whether they are exercisable in the person’s capacity as the ISOP or
in another capacity).

##### Regulations under Part 

181

181.1

Regulations under  this Part  are subject to the negative procedure.

181.2

Subsection (1) does not apply to regulations under paragraph  9  of  Schedule
9 .

### Governance of gas and electricity industry codes

#### Key definitions for Part 6

##### Designation of codes etc

182

182.1

In this Part, “ designated document ” means a document that—

182.1.a

is maintained in accordance with the conditions of a relevant licence, and

182.1.b

is designated for the purposes of this Part by notice given by the Secretary
of State.

182.2

The designation of a document has effect from the time specified in the notice
under subsection  (1) (b) .

182.3

A notice under subsection  (1) (b)  must be published in such manner as the
Secretary of State considers appropriate for bringing it to the attention of
those likely to be affected by the designation.

182.4

The Secretary of State may revoke the designation of a document under this
section.

182.5

The Secretary of State may not designate a document, or revoke the designation
of a document, except so as to give effect to a recommendation of the GEMA.

182.6

Before making a recommendation to the Secretary of State for the purposes of
subsection (5) , the GEMA must consult such persons as it considers
appropriate.

182.7

Subsection  (6)  does not apply in relation to the designation of a document
where, immediately before being designated, the document is (or is treated as)
a qualifying document within the meaning of  Schedule 12 .

##### Meaning of “code manager” and “code manager licence”

183

183.1

In this Part, “ code manager ”, in relation to a designated document, means
the holder of a code manager licence in respect of the document.

183.2

In this Part, “ code manager licence ” means a licence under section 7AC of
the Gas Act 1986 or section 6(1)(g) of the Electricity Act 1989.

183.3

See sections  185  and  186 , which contain amendments to the Gas Act 1986 and
the Electricity Act 1989 in relation to the licences mentioned in subsection
(2) .

##### Designation of central systems

184

184.1

In this Part, “ designated central system ” means a central system that is
designated for the purposes of this Part by notice given by the Secretary of
State.

184.2

“ Central system ” means an information technology system which has one or
both of the following functions—

184.2.a

to support the operation of the provisions of one or more designated
documents;

184.2.b

to process, transmit or store data in connection with the operation of the
provisions of one or more designated documents.

184.3

The designation of a central system has effect from the time specified in the
notice under subsection  (1) .

184.4

A notice under subsection  (1)  in relation to a central system must also
specify the person (referred to in this Part as the “ responsible body ”) who
is responsible, for the purposes of this Part, for operating or procuring the
operation of the central system.

184.5

A notice under subsection  (1)  must be published in such manner as the
Secretary of State considers appropriate for bringing it to the attention of
those likely to be affected by the designation.

184.6

The Secretary of State may revoke the designation of a central system under
this section.

184.7

The Secretary of State may not designate a central system, or revoke the
designation of a central system, except so as to give effect to a
recommendation of the GEMA.

184.8

Before making a recommendation to the Secretary of State for the purposes of
subsection (7) , the GEMA must consult such persons as it considers
appropriate.

184.9

Subsection  (8)  does not apply in relation to the designation of a central
system where—

184.9.a

immediately before being designated, the central system is a qualifying
central system within the meaning of  Schedule 12 , and

184.9.b

the designation does not involve any change to the responsible body in
relation to the central system.

184.10

The Secretary of State may by notice provide—

184.10.a

that the person who is the responsible body in relation to a designated
central system is to cease to be the responsible body in relation to that
system, and

184.10.b

that a person specified in a notice under this paragraph is instead to be the
responsible body in relation to the designated central system.

184.11

The Secretary of State may not give a notice under subsection  (10)  except so
as to give effect to a recommendation of the GEMA.

#### Licensing and selection of code manager

##### Licence under Gas Act 1986 for performance of code management function

185

185.1

Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986 is amended as follows.

185.2

Section 5 (prohibition on unlicensed activities) is amended as follows.

185.3

After subsection (1)(d) insert

; or

185.3.e

performs the function of code manager in relation to a designated gas licence
document (see further subsections  (11A)  and  (11B) ),

.

185.4

After subsection (11) insert—

185.4.11A

A reference in this Part to a person (“ P ”) performing the function of code
manager in relation to a designated gas licence document is a reference to
making arrangements, with the persons to whom subsection  (11B)  applies,
under which P is responsible for the governance of the document.

185.4.11B

This subsection applies to the holder of a licence for the purposes of section
5 where a condition of the licence—

185.4.11B.a

requires the holder to comply with, or to enter into arrangements that conform
with, the designated gas licence document in question, or

185.4.11B.b

imposes obligations on the holder that do not apply to the holder where the
holder complies with that document.

185.5

In subsection (12)—

185.5.a

omit the “and” after the definition of “relevant information”;

185.5.b

at the appropriate place insert—

      “ designated gas licence document ” means a document that is—
maintained in accordance with the conditions of a licence for the purposes of
section 5, and           designated under section  182  of the Energy Act
2023;

.

185.6

After section 7AB insert—

########### Licensing of a person performing code manager function

185.6.7AC

185.6.7AC.1

The Authority may grant a licence (“a code manager licence”) authorising a
person to perform the function of code manager in respect of a designated gas
licence document.

185.6.7AC.2

Where a designated gas licence document is also a designated electricity
licence document, a person may not be granted a code manager licence in
respect of the document unless the same person is at the same time granted a
licence under section 6(1)(g) of the Electricity Act 1989.

185.6.7AC.3

In this section—

      “ designated electricity licence document ” has the same meaning as in
section 4 of the Electricity Act 1989;           “ designated gas licence
document ” has the same meaning as in section 5.

185.7

Section 7B (licences: general) is amended as follows.

185.8

In subsection (5A)—

185.8.a

after “ smart meter communication licence ” (in the first place it occurs)
insert  “or in a code manager licence” ;

185.8.b

for “ smart meter communication licence ” (in the second place it occurs)
substitute  “a licence of the same type” .

185.9

In subsection (5B)—

185.9.a

for “Secretary of State or the Authority” substitute  “relevant authority” ;

185.9.b

in paragraph (b)(ii), after “licence” insert  “or (in the case of an
application for a code manager licence) apply for a licence otherwise than as
part of a competition” .

185.10

In subsection (5C), after “smart meter communication licence” insert  “or in a
code manager licence” .

185.11

In subsection (5D), for “the Secretary of State or the Authority” substitute
“the relevant authority” .

185.12

In subsection (5E)—

185.12.a

in paragraph (a), for “Secretary of State or the Authority (as appropriate)”
substitute  “relevant authority” ;

185.12.b

in paragraph (b), for “Secretary of State or the Authority (as appropriate)”
substitute  “relevant authority” .

185.13

After subsection (5F) insert—

185.13.5FA

In subsections (5B) to (5E), “ the relevant authority ” means—

185.13.5FA.a

in relation to a smart meter communication licence, the Secretary of State or
the Authority;

185.13.5FA.b

in relation to a code manager licence, the Authority.

185.14

In section 8AA (transfer of licences), after subsection (11A) insert—

185.14.11B

Where the holder of a code manager licence is also the holder of a licence
under section 6(1)(g) of the Electricity Act 1989, the code manager licence
may not be transferred to a person unless the licence under section 6(1)(g) of
that Act is transferred to the same person at the same time.

##### Licence under Electricity Act 1989 for performance of code management function

186

186.1

Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989 is amended as follows.

186.2

Section 4 (prohibition on unlicensed supply, etc) is amended as follows.

186.3

In subsection (1)—

186.3.a

omit the “or” after paragraph (d);

186.3.b

after paragraph (e) insert

 or

186.3.b.f

performs the function of code manager in relation to a designated electricity
licence document (see further subsections  (3H)  and  (3I) ),

.

186.4

After subsection (3G) insert—

186.4.3H

A reference in this Part to a person (“ P ”) performing the function of code
manager in relation to a designated electricity licence document is a
reference to making arrangements, with the persons to whom subsection  (3I)
applies, under which P is responsible for the governance of the document.

186.4.3I

This subsection applies to the holder of a licence for the purposes of section
4 where a condition of the licence requires the holder to comply with the
designated electricity licence document in question.

186.5

In subsection (6), at the appropriate place insert—

      “ designated electricity licence document ” means a document that is—
maintained in accordance with the conditions of a licence for the purposes of
section 4, and           designated under  section 182  of the Energy Act
2023;

.

186.6

Section 6 (licences authorising supply, etc) is amended as follows.

186.7

In subsection (1)—

186.7.a

omit the “or” after paragraph (e);

186.7.b

after paragraph (f) insert

, or

186.7.b.g

a licence authorising a person to perform the function of code manager in
relation to a designated electricity licence document (“a code manager
licence”).

186.8

After subsection (2B) insert—

186.8.2C

Where a designated electricity licence document is also a designated gas
licence document, a person may not be granted a code manager licence in
relation to the document unless the same person is at the same time granted a
licence under section 7AC of the Gas Act 1986.

186.9

For subsection (10) substitute—

186.9.10

In this section—

      “ designated electricity licence document ” has the same meaning as in
section 4;           “ designated gas licence document ” has the same meaning
as in section 5 of the Gas Act 1986;           “ premises ” has the same
meaning as in section 4.

186.10

Section 7 (conditions of licences: general) is amended as follows.

186.11

In subsection (3B)—

186.11.a

after “ smart meter communication licence ” (in the first place it occurs)
insert  “or in a code manager licence” ;

186.11.b

for “ smart meter communication licence ” (in the second place it occurs)
substitute  “a licence of the same type” .

186.12

In subsection (3C)—

186.12.a

for “Secretary of State or the Authority” substitute  “relevant authority” ;

186.12.b

in paragraph (b)(ii), after “licence” insert  “or (in the case of an
application for a code manager licence) apply for a licence otherwise than as
part of a competition” .

186.13

In subsection (3D), after “smart meter communication licence” insert  “or in a
code manager licence” .

186.14

In subsection (3E), for “the Secretary of State or the Authority” substitute
“the relevant authority” .

186.15

In subsection (3F)—

186.15.a

in paragraph (a), for “Secretary of State or the Authority (as appropriate)”
substitute  “relevant authority” ;

186.15.b

in paragraph (b), for “Secretary of State or the Authority (as appropriate)”
substitute  “relevant authority” .

186.16

In subsection (3G)(a), after “licence” insert  “or (as the case may be) code
manager licence” .

186.17

After subsection (3G) insert—

186.17.3GA

In subsections (3C) to (3F), “ the relevant authority ” means—

186.17.3GA.a

in relation to a smart meter communication licence, the Secretary of State or
the Authority;

186.17.3GA.b

in relation to a code manager licence, the Authority.

186.18

In section 7A (transfer of licences), after subsection (11A) insert—

186.18.11B

Where the holder of a code manager licence is also the holder of a licence
under section 7AC of the Gas Act 1986, the code manager licence may not be
transferred to a person unless the licence under section 7AC of that Act is
transferred to the same person at the same time.

##### Selection of code manager

187

187.1

The GEMA must determine whether the selection of the person who is to be the
code manager in relation to a designated document is to be made—

187.1.a

on a non-competitive basis, in accordance with regulations made by the
Secretary of State under section  188 , or

187.1.b

on a competitive basis, in accordance with regulations made by the GEMA under
section  189 .

187.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations make—

187.2.a

provision about the making of determinations under subsection  (1)  by the
GEMA (which may include provision specifying criteria to be applied by the
GEMA in making determinations);

187.2.b

provision enabling the GEMA, in circumstances specified in the regulations, to
change the basis on which the selection of a code manager is to be made.

187.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

187.3.a

specify requirements to be met by or in relation to a person in order for the
person to be selected as the code manager in relation to a designated
document;

187.3.b

specify persons, or persons of a particular description, who may or may not be
selected to be a code manager in relation to a designated document.

##### Selection on a non-competitive basis

188

188.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the selection
by the GEMA, otherwise than on a competitive basis, of the person who is to be
the code manager in relation to a designated document.

188.2

Regulations under this section may make provision by reference to a
determination by the GEMA or to the opinion of the GEMA as to any matter.

188.3

Regulations under this section must make provision so as to ensure that a
person (“ P ”) may not be selected to be the code manager in relation to a
designated document unless the GEMA is satisfied that P would not, if
selected, have a financial or other interest likely to prejudice the discharge
by P of the functions of code manager.

188.4

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (1)  includes
provision for the selection by the GEMA of a person (other than an individual)
formed by the GEMA.

##### Selection on a competitive basis

189

189.1

The GEMA may by regulations make provision for a determination by the GEMA on
a competitive basis of the person who is to be selected to be the code manager
in relation to a designated document.

189.2

Regulations under this section may make provision about the procedure relating
to the making of such a determination, which may include provision—

189.2.a

in prescribed cases, for the publication of a proposal to select a code
manager in relation to a designated document;

189.2.b

for the inclusion in such a proposal of an invitation to apply for selection;

189.2.c

imposing conditions in relation to the making of applications (whether in
pursuance of a proposal published as mentioned in  paragraph (a)  or
otherwise);

189.2.d

restricting the making of applications and imposing requirements as to the
period within which they must be made;

189.2.e

for regulating the manner in which applications are considered or determined;

189.2.f

authorising or requiring the GEMA, when determining whom to select, to have
regard to the person’s suitability for being selected.

189.3

Regulations under this section may make provision by reference to a
determination by the GEMA or to the opinion of the GEMA as to any matter.

189.4

Regulations under this section must make provision so as to ensure that a
person (“ P ”) may not be selected to be the code manager in relation to a
designated document unless the GEMA is satisfied that P would not, if
selected, have a financial or other interest likely to prejudice the discharge
by P of the functions of code manager.

189.5

The approval of the Secretary of State is required for the making of
regulations under this section.

189.6

In this section, “ prescribed ” means prescribed by or determined in
accordance with regulations made by the GEMA.

#### Strategic direction statement for designated documents

##### Strategic direction statement

190

190.1

The GEMA must, each year, prepare and publish a statement setting out a
strategic direction for designated documents.

190.2

A statement prepared and published under  subsection (1)  is referred to in
this Part as a “ strategic direction statement ”.

190.3

A strategic direction statement must in particular—

190.3.a

contain a strategic assessment of government policies, and of developments
relating to the energy sector, that the GEMA considers will or may require the
making of modifications to designated documents;

190.3.b

cover such other matters relating to designated documents as the Secretary of
State may specify in regulations.

190.4

In preparing a strategic direction statement, the GEMA must have regard to any
advice given to it by the Independent System Operator and Planner so far as
relevant to the matters referred to in subsection  (3) .

190.5

Before publishing a strategic direction statement in any year, the GEMA must—

190.5.a

publish a notice containing a draft of the document,

190.5.b

send a copy of the notice to the persons listed in  subsection (6) , and

190.5.c

consider any representations about the draft made within the period specified
in the notice.

190.6

The persons referred to in  subsection (5) (b)  are—

190.6.a

the Secretary of State;

190.6.b

the National Association of Citizens Advice Bureaux;

190.6.c

the Scottish Association of Citizens Advice Bureaux;

190.6.d

Consumer Scotland.

190.7

A notice under  subsection (5)  must be published by the GEMA in whatever way
it considers appropriate for the purpose of bringing the matters contained in
it to the attention of persons likely to be affected by them.

##### Transfer of functions under 

191

191.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend  section 190  so as to provide
for functions under that section to be exercisable by the Independent System
Operator and Planner (instead of by the GEMA).

191.2

Before making regulations under this section, the Secretary of State must
consult—

191.2.a

the GEMA,

191.2.b

the Independent System Operator and Planner, and

191.2.c

any other persons whose interests are likely to be affected by the proposal.

191.3

Regulations under this section—

191.3.a

must repeal  section 190 (4) ;

191.3.b

must add the GEMA to the list of persons in section  190 (6) ;

191.3.c

may make such other amendments to  section 190  as the Secretary of State
considers appropriate.

#### Modifications and directions

##### Modification of designated documents by GEMA

192

192.1

The GEMA may modify a designated document if any of  subsections (2)  to  (6)
applies.

192.2

This subsection applies where the GEMA considers that—

192.2.a

the designated document needs to be modified as a matter of urgency,

192.2.b

the making of the modification is likely to be delayed if done in accordance
with the normal modification procedures for the document, and

192.2.c

such a delay would have adverse effects on—

192.2.c.i

consumers, or

192.2.c.ii

any person with rights or obligations under the document, other than the GEMA.

192.3

This subsection applies where the GEMA considers that a financial or other
interest of the code manager in respect of the matter to which the
modification relates is likely to prejudice the making of the modification if
done in accordance with the normal modification procedures for the document.

192.4

This subsection applies where the GEMA considers that—

192.4.a

the modification is required for the purpose of implementing a strategic
direction statement under section  190 , and

192.4.b

the nature of the modification (for example, its complexity) is such that it
needs to be made under this section rather than in accordance with the normal
modification procedures for the designated document.

192.5

This subsection applies where the GEMA considers that the modification is
required in connection with the incorporation of the whole or part of the
provision made by the designated document into another document (whether or
not a designated document).

192.6

This subsection applies where the GEMA considers that the modification is
required in consequence of the exercise of any power conferred by  Schedule 12
(transitional provisions) in relation to a different document.

192.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations make—

192.7.a

provision specifying requirements to be met in relation to the exercise of the
power under  subsection (1) ;

192.7.b

provision supplementing  subsections (2)  to  (6) .

192.8

References in this section to the normal modification procedures for a
designated document are to provision, relating to the procedure for modifying
the document, that—

192.8.a

is contained in the document, or

192.8.b

applies pursuant to any condition of a licence in accordance with which the
document is maintained.

##### Modification under section 

193

193.1

Before making a modification under section  192 , the GEMA must—

193.1.a

publish a notice about the proposed modification,

193.1.b

send a copy of the notice to the persons listed in  subsection (2) , and

193.1.c

consider any representations made within the period specified in the notice
about the proposed modification or the date from which it would take effect.

193.2

The persons mentioned in  subsection (1) (b)  are—

193.2.a

the Secretary of State,

193.2.b

the code manager in relation to the designated document to which the proposed
modification relates, and

193.2.c

such other persons as the GEMA considers appropriate.

193.3

A notice under  subsection (1)  must—

193.3.a

state that the GEMA proposes to make a modification;

193.3.b

set out the proposed modification and its effect;

193.3.c

specify the date from which the GEMA proposes that the modification will have
effect;

193.3.d

state—

193.3.d.i

why the GEMA is seeking to make the modification under section  192  (by
reference to whichever of  subsections (2)  to  (6)  of section  192
applies), and

193.3.d.ii

the reasons for the proposed modification.

193.4

If, within the period specified by virtue of  subsection (1) (c) , the
Secretary of State directs the GEMA not to make the proposed modification, the
GEMA must comply with the direction.

193.5

If, after complying with  subsections (1)  to  (3)  in relation to a proposed
modification, the GEMA decides to make a modification, it must publish a
notice about the decision.

193.6

A notice under  subsection (5)  must—

193.6.a

state that the GEMA has decided to make the modification;

193.6.b

set out the modification and its effect;

193.6.c

specify the date from which the modification has effect;

193.6.d

state how the GEMA has taken account of any representations made in the period
specified in the notice under  subsection (1) ;

193.6.e

state the reason for any differences between the modification set out in the
notice and the proposed modification.

193.7

A notice under this section about a proposed modification or a decision must
be published in such manner as the GEMA considers appropriate for bringing it
to the attention of those likely to be affected by the making of the
modification or decision.

##### Directions relating to designated central systems

194

194.1

The GEMA may give a direction to the responsible body in relation to a
designated central system for the purpose of ensuring that the body—

194.1.a

complies with its obligations under a relevant designated document, or

194.1.b

takes such steps as the GEMA considers may be necessary for the efficient
operation or implementation of the provisions of a relevant designated
document.

194.2

When determining whether to give a direction under this section, the GEMA must
have regard to the ability of the responsible body to whom the direction would
be given—

194.2.a

to recover any costs reasonably incurred by the body in complying with the
direction, and

194.2.b

to comply with the direction without contravening any obligations of the body
under a relevant designated document or in relation to the operation of the
designated central system.

194.3

A responsible body must comply with a direction given to it under this
section.

194.4

In this section and section  195 , “ relevant designated document ”, in
relation to a designated central system, means a designated document in
respect of which the central system has a function mentioned in section  184
(2) .

##### Directions under section 

195

195.1

Before giving a direction under section  194 , the GEMA must—

195.1.a

publish a notice about the proposed direction,

195.1.b

send a copy of the notice to the persons listed in  subsection (2) , and

195.1.c

consider any representations made within the period specified in the notice
about the proposed direction or the date from which it would take effect.

195.2

The persons mentioned in  subsection (1) (b)  are—

195.2.a

the responsible body to whom the direction is proposed to be given, and

195.2.b

the code manager in relation to the relevant designated document.

195.3

A notice under  subsection (1)  must—

195.3.a

state that the GEMA proposes to give a direction;

195.3.b

set out the proposed direction and its effect;

195.3.c

specify the date from which the GEMA proposes that the direction will have
effect;

195.3.d

state the reasons why the GEMA proposes to give the direction.

195.4

If, after complying with  subsections (1)  to  (3)  in relation to a
direction, the GEMA decides to give a direction, it must publish a notice
about the decision.

195.5

A notice under subsection  (4)  must—

195.5.a

state that the GEMA has decided to give the direction;

195.5.b

set out the direction and its effect;

195.5.c

specify the date from which the direction has effect;

195.5.d

state how the GEMA has taken account of any representations made in the period
specified in the notice under  subsection (1) ;

195.5.e

state the reason for any differences between the direction set out in the
notice and the proposed direction.

195.6

A notice under this section about a proposed direction or a decision must be
published in such manner as the GEMA considers appropriate for bringing it to
the attention of those likely to be affected by the making of the direction or
decision.

#### General objectives and reports

##### Principal objective and general duties of Secretary of State and GEMA under Part 

196

Sections 4AA to 4B of the Gas Act 1986 and sections 3A to 3D of the
Electricity Act 1989 (principal objective and general duties) apply in
relation to the functions under this Part of the Secretary of State and of the
GEMA as they apply in relation to functions of the Secretary of State and of
the GEMA under Part 1 of that Act.

##### GEMA’s annual report to cover matters relating to designated documents

197

197.1

Section 5 of the Utilities Act 2000 (annual and other reports of the GEMA) is
amended as follows.

197.2

After subsection (3) insert—

197.2.3A

The annual report for each year must also include an overview of—

197.2.3A.a

developments relating to documents designated for the purposes of  Part 6  of
the Energy Act 2023 (governance of gas and electricity industry codes);

197.2.3A.b

decisions made by the Authority during the year in relation to such documents,
including details of any modifications made under  section 192  of the Energy
Act 2023.

#### Other

##### Regulations under Part 

198

198.1

Regulations under this Part are subject to the negative procedure, subject to
subsection  (2) .

198.2

Regulations under section  191  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Interpretation of Part 

199

In this Part—

      “ central system ” and “designated central system” have the meaning
given by section  184 ;           “ code manager ”, in relation to a
designated document, has the meaning given by section  183 (1) ;           “
code manager licence ” has the meaning given by section  183 (2) ;           “
designated document ” has the meaning given by section  182 (1) ;           “
the Independent System Operator and Planner ” means the person for the time
being designated under  section 162 (1) ;           “ relevant licence ” means
a licence for the purposes of section 4 of the Electricity Act 1989 or section
5 of the Gas Act 1986 (prohibitions on unlicensed activities);           “
responsible body ”, in relation to a designated central system, has the
meaning given by section  184 (4) .

##### Transitional provision and pension arrangements

200

200.1

Schedule 12  contains transitional provision in connection with this Part.

200.2

Schedule 13  contains provision about pension arrangements in connection with
this Part.

##### Minor and consequential amendments

201

Schedule 14  contains minor and consequential amendments in connection with
this Part.

### Market reform and consumer protection

#### Principal objectives of Secretary of State and GEMA

##### Principal objectives of Secretary of State and GEMA

202

202.1

Section 4AA of the Gas Act 1986 (principal objective and general duties of
Secretary of State and GEMA) is amended as set out in subsections (2) and (3).

202.2

In subsection (1A)(a), for “the reduction of gas-supply emissions of targeted
greenhouse gases” substitute  “the Secretary of State’s compliance with the
duties in sections 1 and 4(1)(b) of the Climate Change Act 2008 (net zero
target for 2050 and five-year carbon budgets)” .

202.3

In subsection (5B), omit the definitions of “emissions”, “gas-supply
emissions” and “targeted greenhouse gases”.

202.4

Section 3A of the Electricity Act 1989 (principal objective and general duties
of Secretary of State and GEMA) is amended as set out in subsections (5) and
(6).

202.5

In subsection (1A)(a), for “the reduction of electricity-supply emissions of
targeted greenhouse gases” substitute  “the Secretary of State’s compliance
with the duties in sections 1 and 4(1)(b) of the Climate Change Act 2008 (net
zero target for 2050 and five-year carbon budgets)” .

202.6

In subsection (5B), omit the definitions of “emissions”, “electricity-supply
emissions” and “targeted greenhouse gases”.

#### Competition

##### Competitive tenders for electricity projects

203

203.1

Schedule 15  contains amendments of the Electricity Act 1989 in connection
with enabling competitive tendering for electricity projects.

203.2

The power conferred by section  330 (1)  (consequential provision) includes,
in particular, power to amend provision inserted in the Electricity Act 1989
by Schedule 15 where the amendment is consequential on the coming into force
of  paragraph 4  of  Schedule 11 .

##### Mergers of energy network enterprises

204

204.1

Schedule 16  makes provision about mergers of energy network enterprises.

204.2

The Secretary of State must carry out a review of the operation of sections
68A  to  68F  of, and Schedule 5A to, the Enterprise Act 2002 (inserted by
Schedule 16 ) before the end of the period of 5 years beginning with the day
on which  paragraph 2  of  Schedule 16  to this Act comes into force.

204.3

The Secretary of State must set out the conclusions of the review in a report.

204.4

The report must, in particular—

204.4.a

set out the objectives of the provisions subject to review,

204.4.b

assess the extent to which those objectives have been achieved, and

204.4.c

assess whether those objectives remain appropriate and, if so, the extent to
which those objectives could be achieved in a way that imposes less
regulation.

204.5

The Secretary of State must lay the report before Parliament.

#### Multi-purpose interconnectors

##### Licence required for operation of multi-purpose interconnector

205

205.1

Section 4 of the Electricity Act 1989 (prohibition on unlicensed supply etc of
electricity) is amended in accordance with  subsections (2)  to  (5) .

205.2

In subsection (1)—

205.2.a

omit the “or” after paragraph (d);

205.2.b

after paragraph (d) insert—

205.2.b.da

participates in the operation of a multi-purpose interconnector; or

.

205.3

After subsection (3C) insert—

205.3.3CA

A reference in this Part to participating in the operation of a multi-purpose
interconnector is a reference to—

205.3.3CA.a

co-ordinating and directing the flow of electricity into or through a multi-
purpose interconnector; or

205.3.3CA.b

making a multi-purpose interconnector available for use for the conveyance of
electricity,

and a person is not to be regarded as participating in the operation of an
interconnector or as participating in the transmission of electricity by
reason only of activities constituting participation in the operation of a
multi-purpose interconnector.

205.4

In subsection (3D), after “(3C)(b)” insert  “and (3CA)(b)” .

205.5

After subsection (3E) insert—

205.5.3EA

In this Part “ multi-purpose interconnector ” means so much of an electric
line or other electrical plant as—

205.5.3EA.a

is situated at a place within the jurisdiction of Great Britain; and

205.5.3EA.b

subsists for both—

205.5.3EA.b.i

the conveyance of electricity (whether in both directions or in only one)
between Great Britain and a place within the jurisdiction of another country
or territory, and

205.5.3EA.b.ii

the conveyance of electricity generated in offshore waters (whether in both
directions or in only one) between a generating station and a substation or
another generating station, or between two or more substations.

205.6

In section 5 of the Electricity Act 1989 (exemptions from prohibition), in
subsection (1), after “(d)” insert  “, (da)” .

205.7

Section 6 of the Electricity Act 1989 (licences authorising supply, etc) is
amended in accordance with subsections  (8)  to  (10) .

205.8

In subsection (1)—

205.8.a

omit the “or” after paragraph (e);

205.8.b

after paragraph (e) insert—

205.8.b.ea

a licence authorising a person to participate in the operation of a multi-
purpose interconnector (“an MPI licence”); or

.

205.9

After subsection (2A) insert—

205.9.2AA

The same person may not be the holder of an MPI licence and the holder of a
licence falling within any of paragraphs (a) to (e) of subsection (1).

205.10

After subsection (6D) insert—

205.10.6E

An MPI licence authorising participation in the operation of a multi-purpose
connector—

205.10.6E.a

must specify the multi-purpose interconnector or multi-purpose interconnectors
in relation to which participation is authorised;

205.10.6E.b

may limit the forms of participation in the operation of a multi-purpose
interconnector which are authorised by the licence.

205.11

In section 64(1) of the Electricity Act 1989 (interpretation of Part 1), at
the appropriate place insert—

      “ multi-purpose interconnector ” has the meaning given by section
4(3EA);

.

##### Standard conditions for MPI licences

206

206.1

The Secretary of State must, before  subsection (6)  comes into force,
determine standard conditions for MPI licences.

206.2

Those standard conditions may contain provision—

206.2.a

for a standard condition included in an MPI licence not to have effect until
brought into operation in such manner, and in such circumstances, as may be
specified in or determined under the standard conditions;

206.2.b

for the effect of a standard condition included in an MPI licence to be
suspended in such manner, and in such circumstances, as may be so specified or
determined; or

206.2.c

for a standard condition included in such a licence the effect of which is for
the time being suspended to be brought back into operation in such manner, and
in such circumstances, as may be so specified or determined.

206.3

The Secretary of State must publish the standard conditions determined by the
Secretary of State under this section.

206.4

The publication must be in such manner as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate.

206.5

The standard conditions determined by the Secretary of State have effect
subject to any modifications made under—

206.5.a

Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989,

206.5.b

section 37 or 45 of the Energy Act 2013, or

206.5.c

this Act.

206.6

In section 8A of Electricity Act 1989 (standard conditions of licences), after
subsection (1B) insert—

206.6.1C

Subject to subsection (2), each condition which by virtue of  section 206  of
the Energy Act 2023 is a standard condition for the purposes of MPI licences
is incorporated, by reference, in each MPI licence granted on or after the day
on which subsection  (6)  of that section comes into force.

206.7

In this section, “ MPI licence ” means a licence under section 6(1)(ea) of the
Electricity Act 1989 (inserted by section  205  of this Act).

##### Operation of multi-purpose interconnectors: independence

207

207.1

In the italic heading above section 10A of the Electricity Act 1989, after
“interconnectors” insert  “and multi-purpose interconnectors” .

207.2

After section 10N of the Electricity Act 1989 insert—

########### Electricity transmission and the operation of multi-purpose interconnectors: independence

207.2.10NA

207.2.10NA.1

A person who, for any qualifying period, holds an MPI licence and participates
in the operation of a multi-purpose interconnector must ensure that the person
is certified by the Authority under section 10D throughout that period.

207.2.10NA.2

Sections 10B to 10N apply for the purposes of subsection  (1)  as they apply
for the purposes of section 10A(3), but as if—

207.2.10NA.2.a

references to an electricity interconnector were references to a multi-purpose
interconnector;

207.2.10NA.2.b

references to an interconnector licence (or to a licence under section
6(1)(e)) were to an MPI licence (or to a licence under section 6(1)(ea)).

207.2.10NA.3

In this section, “ qualifying period ” means a period beginning on or after
the day on which section  207  of the Energy Act 2023 comes into force.

207.3

In section 10O(1) of the Electricity Act 1989 (interpretation), for “10N”
substitute  “10NA” .

##### Grant of MPI licences to existing operators

208

208.1

This section applies where a person holds a licence under section 6(1)(e) of
the Electricity Act 1989 (interconnector licence) or an offshore transmission
licence on the day on which  section 205  of this Act comes into force.

208.2

The Secretary of State has power to grant an MPI licence to that person under
section 6 of the Electricity Act 1989.

208.3

Sections 6A(5), 7 and 8A of the Electricity Act 1989 (notice of licence and
licence conditions) have effect in relation to the grant of a licence by the
Secretary of State by virtue of this section as if—

208.3.a

references in those provisions to the Authority included references to the
Secretary of State, and

208.3.b

in section 8A—

208.3.b.i

in subsection (4)(b), the words “the Secretary of State,” were omitted, and

208.3.b.ii

subsection (5) were omitted.

208.4

Before granting a licence to a person by virtue of this section, the Secretary
of State must consult—

208.4.a

that person,

208.4.b

the GEMA, and

208.4.c

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

208.5

Subsection (4)  may be satisfied by consultation before this section comes
into force (as well as by consultation after that time).

208.6

In this section—

      “ MPI licence ” means a licence under section 6(1)(ea) of the
Electricity Act 1989 (inserted by section  205  of this Act);           “
offshore transmission licence ” has the same meaning as in Part 1 of the
Electricity Act 1989 (see section 64(1) of that Act).

##### Power to make consequential etc provision

209

209.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make consequential, supplementary,
incidental, transitional or saving provision in connection with sections  205
to  208 .

209.2

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (1)  includes
provision amending, repealing or revoking an Act of Parliament or retained
direct EU legislation.

209.3

Before making regulations under  subsection (1) , the Secretary of State must
consult—

209.3.a

the GEMA, and

209.3.b

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

209.4

Regulations under  subsection (1)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Consequential amendments relating to multi-purpose interconnectors

210

Schedule 17  contains minor and consequential amendments.

#### Support for energy-intensive industries

##### Electricity support payments for energy-intensive industries

211

211.1

The Secretary of State may make regulations requiring payments (“electricity
support payments”) to be made to a person who carries out an energy-intensive
activity, for the purpose of alleviating the impact on the person of
electricity costs.

211.2

In  subsection (1) , “ energy-intensive activity ” means an activity (or
description of activity) that is designated as such in the regulations.

211.3

The regulations may make provision—

211.3.a

about the circumstances in which a person is eligible for electricity support
payments;

211.3.b

about how eligibility is to be considered and determined;

211.3.c

setting out a process for applying for electricity support payments, including
provision about the form and content of applications;

211.3.d

about the calculation of electricity support payments;

211.3.e

requiring a person to provide information that is relevant to their
eligibility for electricity support payments or to the calculation of any such
payments;

211.3.f

requiring a person who supplies electricity to another person to provide
information that is relevant to the matters mentioned in  paragraph (e)
(whether to the person to whom the information relates or to another person
specified in the regulations);

211.3.g

about the sharing of information provided by virtue of  paragraph (e)  or  (f)
;

211.3.h

requiring past electricity support payments to be repaid (with or without
interest) in circumstances specified in the regulations;

211.3.i

about how amounts repaid by virtue of  paragraph (h)  are to be applied
(including provision for amounts to be held in reserve or paid into the
Consolidated Fund);

211.3.j

for the enforcement of obligations imposed by or under the regulations
(including provision about interest on late payments and imposing financial
penalties);

211.3.k

about the resolution of disputes, including provision about arbitration or
appeals (which may in particular include provision for the person conducting
an arbitration or determining an appeal to order the payment of costs or
expenses or compensation).

211.4

Where by virtue of  subsection (3) (j)  the regulations provide for the
imposition of a financial penalty, they must also provide for a right of
appeal against the imposition of the penalty.

211.5

The regulations may—

211.5.a

appoint a person, with the person’s consent, to carry out functions in
connection with electricity support payments (a “support payment
administrator”);

211.5.b

confer functions on the support payment administrator;

211.5.c

require the support payment administrator to provide information or assistance
to the Secretary of State, or to another person specified in the regulations,
in relation to any functions so conferred.

211.6

Where—

211.6.a

the regulations impose a requirement on a regulated person (as defined by
section 25(8) of the Electricity Act 1989),

211.6.b

the requirement is enforceable by a support payment administrator, and

211.6.c

the support payment administrator is the GEMA,

the regulations may provide for the requirement to be enforceable by the GEMA
as if it were a relevant requirement imposed on the person for the purposes of
section 25 of that Act.

211.7

The regulations may provide for any sum—

211.7.a

that a person is required under the regulations to pay to the Secretary of
State or to a support payment administrator, and

211.7.b

that has not been paid by the date required,

to be recoverable from the person as a civil debt due to the Secretary of
State or to the support payment administrator (as the case may be).

211.8

The regulations may make provision about the terms of a support payment
administrator’s appointment, including provision—

211.8.a

for the support payment administrator to be remunerated, or compensated for
costs that they incur;

211.8.b

about how an appointment may be terminated by the Secretary of State or by the
support payment administrator, and when termination takes effect.

211.9

If functions of a support payment administrator (“the outgoing administrator”)
are to be taken on by another support payment administrator or by the
Secretary of State (“ the successor ”), the regulations may—

211.9.a

require the outgoing administrator to take steps specified in the regulations
to enable or facilitate the carrying out of those functions by the successor;

211.9.b

provide for the transfer of any property, rights or liabilities from the
outgoing administrator to the successor;

211.9.c

provide for anything done by or in relation to the outgoing administrator in
connection with any property, rights or liabilities to be treated as done, or
to be continued, by or in relation to the successor.

“Property” in this subsection includes interests of any description.

211.10

Regulations under this section may confer a discretion on the Secretary of
State or on a support payment administrator.

211.11

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Levy to fund electricity support payments

212

212.1

The Secretary of State may make regulations requiring the payment of a levy by
electricity suppliers for the purpose of funding—

212.1.a

the making of electricity support payments by virtue of  section 211
(including expected future payments);

212.1.b

any other costs arising by virtue of  section 211  or this section (including
expected future costs).

212.2

The regulations may make provision—

212.2.a

about the calculation of the levy;

212.2.b

requiring electricity suppliers to provide financial collateral in respect of
their obligations to pay the levy, and about the form and terms of such
collateral;

212.2.c

for the issuing of notices to require the payment of the levy or the provision
of collateral;

212.2.d

for the provision of copies of such notices to persons specified in the
regulations or for the publication of such notices;

212.2.e

about how amounts of levy are to be applied once paid (including provision for
amounts to be held in reserve or paid into the Consolidated Fund);

212.2.f

for the recovery of unpaid amounts of levy in the event of the insolvency or
default of an electricity supplier (including provision requiring amounts to
be borne by other electricity suppliers in accordance with the regulations);

212.2.g

requiring electricity suppliers or the GEMA to provide information that is
needed to determine—

212.2.g.i

what an electricity supplier’s obligations are in relation to the levy, or

212.2.g.ii

whether an electricity supplier has complied with those obligations;

212.2.h

about the sharing of information provided by virtue of  paragraph (g) ;

212.2.i

for the enforcement of obligations imposed by or under the regulations
(including provision about interest on late payments and imposing financial
penalties);

212.2.j

about the resolution of disputes, including provision about arbitration or
appeals (which may in particular include provision for the person conducting
an arbitration or determining an appeal to order the payment of costs or
expenses or compensation).

212.3

Where by virtue of  subsection (2) (i)  the regulations provide for the
imposition of a financial penalty, they must also provide for a right of
appeal against the imposition of the penalty.

212.4

The regulations may—

212.4.a

appoint a person, with the person’s consent, to carry out functions in
connection with the levy (a “levy administrator”);

212.4.b

confer functions on the levy administrator;

212.4.c

require the levy administrator to provide information or assistance to the
Secretary of State, or to another person specified in the regulations, in
relation to any functions so conferred.

212.5

Where—

212.5.a

the regulations impose a requirement on a regulated person (as defined by
section 25(8) of the Electricity Act 1989),

212.5.b

the requirement is enforceable by a levy administrator, and

212.5.c

the levy administrator is the GEMA,

the regulations may provide for the requirement to be enforceable by the GEMA
as if it were a relevant requirement imposed on the person for the purposes of
section 25 of that Act.

212.6

The regulations may provide for any sum—

212.6.a

that a person is required under the regulations to pay to the Secretary of
State or to a levy administrator, and

212.6.b

that has not been paid by the date required,

to be recoverable from the person as a civil debt due to the Secretary of
State or to the levy administrator (as the case may be).

212.7

The regulations may make provision about the terms of a levy administrator’s
appointment, including provision—

212.7.a

for the levy administrator to be remunerated, or compensated for costs that
they incur;

212.7.b

about how an appointment may be terminated by the Secretary of State or by the
levy administrator, and when termination takes effect.

212.8

If functions of a levy administrator (“the outgoing administrator”) are to be
taken on by another levy administrator or by the Secretary of State (“ the
successor ”), the regulations may—

212.8.a

require the outgoing administrator to take steps specified in the regulations
to enable or facilitate the carrying out of those functions by the successor;

212.8.b

provide for the transfer of any property, rights or liabilities from the
outgoing administrator to the successor;

212.8.c

provide for anything done by or in relation to the outgoing administrator in
connection with any property, rights or liabilities to be treated as done, or
to be continued, by or in relation to the successor.

“Property” in this subsection includes interests of any description.

212.9

Regulations under this section may confer a discretion on the Secretary of
State or on a levy administrator.

212.10

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

212.11

In this section, “ electricity supplier ” means the holder of a licence under
section 6(1)(d) of the Electricity Act 1989.

#### Electricity storage

##### Electricity storage

213

In section 4 of the Electricity Act 1989 (prohibition on unlicensed generation
etc of electricity), after subsection (3) insert—

213.3ZA

In subsection (1)(a), the reference to a person who generates electricity
includes a reference to a person who generates electricity from stored energy.

213.3ZB

In subsection (3ZA), “ stored energy ” means energy that—

213.3ZB.a

was converted from electricity, and

213.3ZB.b

is stored for the purpose of its future reconversion into electricity.

#### Reduction targets: carbon emissions and home-heating costs

##### Payment as alternative to complying with certain energy company obligations

214

214.1

In section 33BC of the Gas Act 1986 (promotion of reductions in carbon
emissions: gas transporters and gas suppliers), after subsection (7B) insert—

214.1.7C

The order may make provision as to circumstances in which a transporter or
supplier may meet the whole or any part of a carbon emissions reduction target
by making a buy-out payment.

214.1.7D

In this section, “ buy-out payment ” means a payment—

214.1.7D.a

of an amount (“ the buy-out price ”) determined by the Secretary of State,

214.1.7D.b

to a person approved by the Administrator (an “approved person”),

214.1.7D.c

for a purpose approved by the Administrator (an “approved purpose”).

214.1.7E

Provision made by virtue of subsection  (7C)  may include provision about the
determination by the Secretary of State of the buy-out price, including
provision—

214.1.7E.a

enabling the Secretary of State to set different buy-out prices—

214.1.7E.a.i

for different parts of the period to which the order relates;

214.1.7E.a.ii

for different cases (including different buy-out prices for different
transporters or suppliers);

214.1.7E.b

requiring the Secretary of State to publish the buy-out price.

214.1.7F

If the order makes provision by virtue of subsection  (7C) , the order may
also make provision—

214.1.7F.a

as to the procedure to be followed by the Administrator in approving a person
as an approved person or a purpose as an approved purpose;

214.1.7F.b

specifying criteria by reference to which the Administrator is to determine
whether to approve a person or purpose.

214.1.7G

Provision made by virtue of subsection  (7C)  may include further provision
about buy-out payments, including in particular provision—

214.1.7G.a

as to the procedure to be followed by a transporter or supplier who proposes
to make a buy-out payment, including provision—

214.1.7G.a.i

requiring a transporter or supplier to notify the Administrator of specified
matters by a specified time;

214.1.7G.a.ii

as to circumstances in which a transporter or supplier must make the buy-out
payment to which notification given to the Administrator relates;

214.1.7G.a.iii

about the process for seeking approval of a person as an approved person, or
of a purpose as an approved purpose;

214.1.7G.b

preventing a transporter or supplier from treating a buy-out payment as a
payment pursuant to any other obligation (whether statutory or contractual),
or vice versa;

214.1.7G.c

setting out circumstances in which a requirement imposed on a transporter or
supplier by provision made by virtue of subsection (5)(ba) or (bb) may be—

214.1.7G.c.i

met, in whole or in part, by the making of a buy-out payment;

214.1.7G.c.ii

varied as a result of a buy-out payment;

214.1.7G.d

about the effect of provision included in the order by virtue of subsection
(7)(c) to (e) on a person’s ability to meet the whole or any part of a carbon
emissions reduction target by making a buy-out payment.

214.1.7H

Where an order includes provision for the making of a buy-out payment, the
references in subsections (5)(be) and (7)(b) to action include a reference to
the making of a buy-out payment.

214.2

In section 33BCA of the Gas Act 1986 (Scottish Ministers’ promotion of
reductions in carbon emissions: gas suppliers)—

214.2.a

in subsection (3)—

214.2.a.i

in paragraph (b), after “(7)(a)” insert  “,  (7C) ,  (7E) ” ;

214.2.a.ii

after paragraph (c) insert—

214.2.a.ii.ca

in  subsection (7F) , for “order makes” is substituted  “Secretary of State
has made” ;

214.2.a.ii.cb

in  subsection (7G) , for “ (7C) ” is substituted  “ (7F) ” ;

214.2.a.ii.cc

in  subsection (7H) , for “an order includes” is substituted  “the Secretary
of State has made” ;

;

214.2.a.iii

in paragraph (g), after “place” insert  “other than in subsection  (7D) (a) ”
;

214.2.b

in subsection (9)(a), for “or (7)(a)” substitute  “, (7)(a),  (7C)  or  (7E) ”
.

214.3

In section 33BDA of the Gas Act 1986 (Scottish Ministers’ promotion of
reductions in home-heating costs: gas suppliers)—

214.3.a

in subsection (3)—

214.3.a.i

in paragraph (c), after “(7)(a)” insert  “,  (7C) ,  (7E) ” ;

214.3.a.ii

after paragraph (d) insert—

214.3.a.ii.da

in section 33BC (7F)  as applied by subsection (4), for “order makes” is
substituted  “Secretary of State has made” ;

214.3.a.ii.db

in section 33BC (7G)  as applied by subsection (4), for “ (7C) ” is
substituted  “ (7F) ” ;

214.3.a.ii.dc

in section 33BC (7H)  as applied by subsection (4), for “an order includes” is
substituted  “the Secretary of State has made” ;

;

214.3.a.iii

in paragraph (h), after “subsection (4)” insert  “other than in section 33BC
(7D) (a) ” ;

214.3.b

in subsection (9)(b), for “or (7)(a)” substitute  “(7)(a),  (7C)  or  (7E) ” .

214.4

In section 41A of the Electricity Act 1989 (promotion of reductions in carbon
emissions: electricity distributors and electricity suppliers), after
subsection (7B) insert—

214.4.7C

The order may make provision as to circumstances in which a distributor or
supplier may meet the whole or any part of a carbon emissions reduction target
by making a buy-out payment.

214.4.7D

In this section, “ buy-out payment ” means a payment—

214.4.7D.a

of an amount (“ the buy-out price ”) determined by the Secretary of State,

214.4.7D.b

to a person approved by the Administrator (an “approved person”),

214.4.7D.c

for a purpose approved by the Administrator (an “approved purpose”).

214.4.7E

Provision made by virtue of subsection  (7C)  may include provision about the
determination by the Secretary of State of the buy-out price, including
provision—

214.4.7E.a

enabling the Secretary of State to set different buy-out prices—

214.4.7E.a.i

for different parts of the period to which the order relates;

214.4.7E.a.ii

for different cases (including different buy-out prices for different
distributors or suppliers);

214.4.7E.b

requiring the Secretary of State to publish the buy-out price.

214.4.7F

If the order makes provision by virtue of subsection  (7C) , the order may
also make provision—

214.4.7F.a

as to the procedure to be followed by the Administrator in approving a person
as an approved person or a purpose as an approved purpose;

214.4.7F.b

specifying criteria by reference to which the Administrator is to determine
whether to approve a person or purpose.

214.4.7G

Provision made by virtue of subsection  (7C)  may include further provision
about buy-out payments, including in particular provision—

214.4.7G.a

as to the procedure to be followed by a distributor or supplier who proposes
to make a buy-out payment, including provision—

214.4.7G.a.i

requiring a distributor or supplier to notify the Administrator of specified
matters by a specified time;

214.4.7G.a.ii

as to circumstances in which a distributor or supplier must make the buy-out
payment to which notification given to the Administrator relates;

214.4.7G.a.iii

about the process for seeking approval of a person as an approved person, or
of a purpose as an approved purpose;

214.4.7G.b

preventing a distributor or supplier from treating a buy-out payment as a
payment pursuant to any other obligation (whether statutory or contractual),
or vice versa;

214.4.7G.c

setting out circumstances in which a requirement imposed on a distributor or
supplier by provision made by virtue of subsection (5)(ba) or (bb) may be—

214.4.7G.c.i

met, in whole or in part, by the making of a buy-out payment;

214.4.7G.c.ii

varied as a result of a buy-out payment;

214.4.7G.d

about the effect of provision included in the order by virtue of subsection
(7)(c) to (e) on a person’s ability to meet the whole or any part of a carbon
emissions reduction target by making a buy-out payment.

214.4.7H

Where an order includes provision for the making of a buy-out payment, the
references in subsections (5)(be) and (7)(b) to action include a reference to
the making of a buy-out payment.

214.5

In section 41AA of the Electricity Act 1989 (Scottish Ministers’ promotion of
reductions in carbon emissions: electricity suppliers)—

214.5.a

in subsection (3)—

214.5.a.i

in paragraph (b), after “(7)(a)” insert  “,  (7C) ,  (7E) ” ;

214.5.a.ii

after paragraph (c) insert—

214.5.a.ii.ca

in  subsection (7F) , for “order makes” is substituted  “Secretary of State
has made” ;

214.5.a.ii.cb

in  subsection (7G) , for “ (7C) ” is substituted  “ (7F) ” ;

214.5.a.ii.cc

in  subsection (7H) , for “an order includes” is substituted  “the Secretary
of State has made” ;

;

214.5.a.iii

in paragraph (g), after “place” insert  “other than in  subsection (7D) (a) ”
;

214.5.b

in subsection (9)(a), for “or (7)(a)” substitute  “, (7)(a),  (7C)  or  (7E) ”
.

214.6

In subsection 41BA of the Electricity Act 1989 (Scottish Ministers’ promotion
of reductions in home-heating costs: electricity suppliers)—

214.6.a

in subsection (3)—

214.6.a.i

in paragraph (c), after “(7)(a)” insert  “,  (7C) ,  (7E) ” ;

214.6.a.ii

after paragraph (d) insert—

214.6.a.ii.da

in section 41A (7F)  as applied by subsection (4), for “order makes” is
substituted  “Secretary of State has made” ;

214.6.a.ii.db

in section 41A (7G)  as applied by subsection (4), for “ (7C) ” is substituted
“ (7F) ” ;

214.6.a.ii.dc

in section 41A (7H)  as applied by subsection (4), for “an order includes” is
substituted  “the Secretary of State has made” ;

;

214.6.a.iii

in paragraph (h), after “subsection (4)” insert  “other than in section 41A
(7D) (a) ” ;

214.6.b

in subsection (9)(b), for “or (7)(a)” substitute  “, (7)(a),  (7C)  or  (7E) ”
.

#### Smart meters

##### Smart meters: extension of time for exercise of powers

215

215.1

In section 88(5) of the Energy Act 2008 (expiry of power to amend licence
conditions etc: smart meters), for “1 November 2023” substitute  “1 November
2028” .

215.2

In the Gas Act 1986—

215.2.a

in section 8AA(10D) (expiry of provisions requiring proposed transfer of smart
meter communication licence to be notified to Secretary of State), for “1
November 2023” substitute  “1 November 2028” ;

215.2.b

in section 41HB(2) (time limit for exercise of power to provide for activities
connected with smart meters to be licensable activities), for “1 November
2023” substitute  “1 November 2028” .

215.3

In the Electricity Act 1989—

215.3.a

in section 7A(10D) (expiry of provisions requiring proposed transfer of smart
meter communication licence to be notified to Secretary of State), for “1
November 2023” substitute  “1 November 2028” ;

215.3.b

in section 56FB(2) (time limit for exercise of power to provide for activities
connected with smart meters to be licensable activities), for “1 November
2023” substitute  “1 November 2028” .

215.4

Subsections  (5)  and  (6)  apply if this section comes into force after 1
November 2023.

215.5

Section 89(1) of the Energy Act 2008 (duty to consult on modifications) may be
satisfied by consultation before, as well as by consultation after, 1 November
2023.

215.6

Where—

215.6.a

on or before 1 November 2023 the Secretary of State has, in accordance with
section 89(3) of the Energy Act 2008, laid before Parliament a draft of
proposed modifications under section 88 of that Act, and

215.6.b

on that date the 40-day period referred to in section 89(4) of that Act has
not expired,

in calculating that 40-day period no account is to be taken of the period
beginning with 2 November 2023 and ending immediately before the day on which
this section comes into force.

215.7

In the Smart Meters Act 2018, omit section 1.

### Heat networks

#### Regulation of heat networks

##### Relevant heat network

216

216.1

In this Chapter, “ relevant heat network ” means—

216.1.a

a district heat network, or

216.1.b

a communal heat network.

216.2

In  this section —

      “ communal heat network ” means a heat network by means of which
heating, cooling or hot water is supplied only to a single building divided
into separate premises or persons in those premises;           “ district heat
network ” means a heat network by means of which heating, cooling or hot water
is supplied to two or more buildings or persons in those buildings;
“ heat network ” means a network that, by distributing a liquid or a gas,
enables the transfer of thermal energy for the purpose of supplying heating,
cooling or hot water to a building or persons in that building (and includes
any appliance the main purpose of which is to heat or cool the liquid or gas).

216.3

For the purposes of  subsection (2) , a network is not excluded from being a
heat network only by reason of its being designed to rely wholly or in part on
heat pumps particular to the buildings or premises served by the network.

216.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this section for the purposes
of changing the definitions of “relevant heat network”, “district heat
network”, “communal heat network” and “heat network”.

216.5

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### The Regulator

217

217.1

In this Chapter, “ the Regulator ” means—

217.1.a

in relation to England and Wales and Scotland, the GEMA, and

217.1.b

in relation to Northern Ireland, the NIAUR.

217.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide for functions of the
Regulator in relation to England and Wales and Scotland to be carried out, to
the extent specified in the regulations, by a person or body other than the
GEMA.

217.3

The Department may by regulations provide for functions of the Regulator in
relation to Northern Ireland to be carried out, to the extent specified in the
regulations, by a person or body other than the NIAUR.

217.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations make such amendments of this Part as
appear to the Secretary of State to be appropriate in consequence of provision
made by virtue of  subsection (2)  or  (3) .

217.5

The Department may by regulations make such amendments of this Part as appear
to the Department to be appropriate in consequence of provision made by virtue
of  subsection (3) .

217.6

Regulations made by the Secretary of State under this section are subject to
the affirmative procedure.

217.7

The power of the Department to make regulations under this section is
exercisable by statutory rule for the purposes of the Statutory Rules
(Northern Ireland) Order 1979 ( S.I. 1979/1573 (N.I. 12)) .

217.8

Regulations made by the Department under this section may not be made unless a
draft of the regulations has been laid before and approved by a resolution of
the Northern Ireland Assembly.

##### Alternative dispute resolution for consumer disputes

218

218.1

The Department may by regulations amend the Alternative Dispute Resolution for
Consumer Disputes (Competent Authorities and Information) Regulations 2015 (
S.I. 2015/542 ) so as to provide for a person who, or a body which, from time
to time carries out to any extent in relation to Northern Ireland the
functions conferred on the Regulator by this Chapter to be a competent
authority for the purposes of those regulations.

218.2

The power of the Department to make regulations under this section is
exercisable by statutory rule for the purposes of the Statutory Rules
(Northern Ireland) Order 1979 ( S.I. 1979/1573 (N.I. 12)) .

218.3

Regulations made by the Department under this section may not be made unless a
draft of the regulations has been laid before and approved by a resolution of
the Northern Ireland Assembly.

##### Heat networks regulations

219

219.1

The appropriate authority may by regulations make provision for the purposes
of—

219.1.a

regulating relevant heat networks, or

219.1.b

conferring powers in relation to the development or maintenance of relevant
heat networks.

219.2

Schedule 18  contains further provision about the power to make regulations
under  this section .

219.3

The provision made in  Schedule 18  is without prejudice to the generality of
subsection (1).

219.4

Regulations under this section may—

219.4.a

contain such consequential, incidental, supplementary, transitional or saving
provisions as the appropriate authority considers appropriate;

219.4.b

make different provision for different purposes;

219.4.c

provide for a person to exercise discretion in dealing with any matter.

219.5

Regulations made by the Secretary of State by virtue of  subsection (4) (a)
may include—

219.5.a

provisions amending or repealing an Act of Parliament, an Act or Measure of
Senedd Cymru or Northern Ireland legislation;

219.5.b

provisions amending the Heat Networks (Scotland) Act  2021 (asp 9) .

219.6

Regulations made by the Department by virtue of  subsection (4) (a)  may
include provisions amending or repealing Northern Ireland legislation.

219.7

Before making any regulations under this section, the appropriate authority is
to consult such persons or bodies as it may consider appropriate.

219.8

It is immaterial for the purposes of  subsection (7)  whether consultation is
carried out before or after the coming into force of  this section .

219.9

In this section “ the appropriate authority ” means—

219.9.a

in relation to England and Wales and Scotland, the Secretary of State;

219.9.b

in relation to Northern Ireland, the Department.

##### Regulations made by Secretary of State: consultation with devolved authorities

220

220.1

This section applies where—

220.1.a

the Secretary of State proposes to make regulations under  section 219  by
virtue of any of Parts  3 ,  4 ,  5 ,  7 ,  8 ,  10 ,  11  and  12  of
Schedule 18 , and

220.1.b

the regulations contain—

220.1.b.i

in the case of regulations made by virtue of Part  3 ,  4 ,  7 ,  8 ,  10 ,
11  or  12  of  Schedule 18 , provision within Scottish devolved competence;

220.1.b.ii

in the case of regulations made by virtue of Part  5  of  Schedule 18 ,
provision within Welsh devolved competence.

220.2

Before making the regulations, the Secretary of State must give notice—

220.2.a

stating that the Secretary of State proposes to make the regulations,

220.2.b

setting out or describing—

220.2.b.i

so far as the regulations are made as mentioned in  subsection (1) (b) (i) ,
the provision within Scottish devolved competence,

220.2.b.ii

so far as the regulations are made as mentioned in  subsection (1) (b) (ii) ,
the provision within Welsh devolved competence, and

220.2.c

specifying the period (of not less than 28 days from the date on which the
notice is given) within which representations may be made with respect to
those provisions,

and must consider any representations duly made and not withdrawn.

220.3

A notice under subsection  (2)  must be given to each relevant devolved
authority, that is to say—

220.3.a

the Scottish Ministers, if the regulations are made as mentioned in
subsection (1) (b) (i)  and contain provision within Scottish devolved
competence;

220.3.b

the Welsh Ministers, if the regulations are made as mentioned in  subsection
(1) (b) (ii)  and contain provision within Welsh devolved competence.

220.4

The Secretary of State need not wait until the end of the period specified
under subsection  (2) (c)  before making regulations if, before the end of
that period, each relevant devolved authority to which the notice was given
has confirmed that it has made any representations it intends to make with
respect to the provision referred to in  subsection (2) (b) (i)  or  (ii)  (as
the case may be).

220.5

The Secretary of State must, if requested to do so by a relevant devolved
authority, give the authority a statement setting out whether and how
representations made by the authority with respect to the provision referred
to in  subsection (2) (b) (i)  or  (ii)  (as the case may be) have been taken
into account in the regulations.

220.6

For the purposes of this section, provision—

220.6.a

is within Scottish devolved competence if it would be within the legislative
competence of the Scottish Parliament if it were contained in an Act of that
Parliament;

220.6.b

is within Welsh devolved competence if it would be within the legislative
competence of Senedd Cymru if it were contained in an Act of the Senedd
(ignoring any requirement for the consent of a Minister of the Crown imposed
under Schedule 7B to the Government of Wales Act 2006).

##### Heat networks regulations: other provision about procedure

221

221.1

The first regulations to be made by the Secretary of State under  section 219
are subject to the affirmative procedure.

221.2

The following regulations made by the Secretary of State are also subject to
the affirmative procedure—

221.2.a

regulations under  section 219  which are made by virtue of—

221.2.a.i

paragraph 12 (1)  of  Schedule 18 ,

221.2.a.ii

paragraph 23 (1)  of  Schedule 18 ,

221.2.a.iii

paragraph 32  of  Schedule 18 ,

221.2.a.iv

any provision of  Part 8  or  9  of  Schedule 18 , or

221.2.a.v

paragraph 56  of  Schedule 18 ;

221.2.b

regulations under  section 219  which create an offence or provide for an
increase in the penalty for an existing offence;

221.2.c

regulations under  section 219  which amend or repeal any provision of
legislation mentioned in  section 219 (5) .

221.3

Any other regulations made by the Secretary of State under  section 219  are
subject to the negative procedure.

221.4

The power of the Department to make regulations under  section 219  is
exercisable by statutory rule for the purposes of the Statutory Rules
(Northern Ireland) Order 1979 ( S.I. 1979/1573 (N.I. 12)) .

221.5

The first regulations to be made by the Department under  section 219  may not
be made unless a draft of the regulations has been laid before and approved by
a resolution of the Northern Ireland Assembly.

221.6

Regulations made by the Department under  section 219  containing any of the
following regulations (whether alone or with other regulations) may not be
made unless a draft of the regulations has been laid before and approved by a
resolution of the Northern Ireland Assembly—

221.6.a

regulations under  section 219  which are made by virtue of—

221.6.a.i

paragraph 12 (1)  of  Schedule 18 ,

221.6.a.ii

paragraph 32  of  Schedule 18 ,

221.6.a.iii

any provision of  Part 8  or  9  of  Schedule 18 , or

221.6.a.iv

paragraph 56  of  Schedule 18 ;

221.6.b

regulations under section  219  which create an offence or provide for an
increase in the penalty for an existing offence;

221.6.c

regulations under  section 219  which amend or repeal any provision of
Northern Ireland legislation.

221.7

Any other regulations made by the Department under  section 219  are subject
to negative resolution within the meaning of section 41(6) of the
Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland)  1954 (c. 33 (N.I.)) .

##### Recovery of costs by GEMA and NIAUR

222

222.1

The conditions of a licence under section 7, 7ZA, 7A or 7AB of the Gas Act
1986 or section 6 of the Electricity Act 1989 may require payment by the
licence holder of sums relating to costs within  subsection (2) .

222.2

The costs within this subsection are—

222.2.a

costs of the GEMA—

222.2.a.i

under regulations made under section  219 , or

222.2.a.ii

in its capacity as the licensing authority for the purposes of the Heat
Networks (Scotland) Act  2021 (asp 9) , if the GEMA is designated as such
under section  223 (1) of this Act,

222.2.b

costs of a person other than the GEMA in carrying out, by virtue of section
217 (2)  or paragraph  5  of  Schedule 18 , functions of the Regulator,

222.2.c

costs of holders of licences issued under  Part 4  of  Schedule 18  (code
manager licences),

222.2.d

costs incurred by the Secretary of State in giving financial assistance under
regulations made by virtue of paragraph  50  of  Schedule 18  (special
administration regime),

222.2.e

costs incurred by a person or body in providing, or arranging for the
provision of, consumer advocacy and advice in relation to heat network
consumers, and

222.2.f

costs not within any of paragraphs (a) to (e) incurred by a person in
exercising a function in relation to heat networks in England, Wales or
Scotland (whether by virtue of regulations under section  219  or otherwise).

222.3

The conditions of a licence under Article 8 of the Gas (Northern Ireland)
Order 1996 ( S.I. 1996/275 (N.I. 2))  or Article 10 of the Electricity
(Northern Ireland) Order 1992 ( S.I. 1992/231 (N.I. 1))  may require payment
by the licence holder of sums relating to costs within  subsection (4) .

222.4

The costs within this subsection are—

222.4.a

costs of the NIAUR under regulations made under section  219 ,

222.4.b

costs of a person other than the NIAUR in carrying out, by virtue of  section
217 (3)  or paragraph  5  of  Schedule 18 , functions of the Regulator,

222.4.c

costs incurred by the Department in giving financial assistance under
regulations made by virtue of paragraph  50  of  Schedule 18  (special
administration regime),

222.4.d

costs incurred by a person or body in providing, or arranging for the
provision of, consumer advocacy and advice in relation to heat network
consumers, and

222.4.e

costs not within any of paragraphs (a) to (d) incurred by a person in
exercising a function in relation to heat networks in Northern Ireland
(whether by virtue of regulations under section  219  or otherwise).

##### Heat networks: licensing authority in Scotland

223

223.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations designate the GEMA as the licensing
authority for the purposes of the Heat Networks (Scotland) Act  2021 (asp 9) .

223.2

Regulations under  subsection (1)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

223.3

In section 4 of the Heat Networks (Scotland) Act 2021 (meaning of “ licensing
authority ”)—

223.3.a

at the beginning insert  “(1)” ;

223.3.b

after the subsection (1) so formed insert—

223.3.b.2

Subsection (1) is subject to subsection (3).

223.3.b.3

If the Secretary of State designates the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority
as the licensing authority for the purposes of this Act by regulations under
section 223 (1)  of the Energy Act 2023, references in this Act to the
licensing authority are references to the Gas and Electricity Markets
Authority.

##### Heat networks: enforcement in Scotland

224

224.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the Heat Networks (Scotland)
Act 2021 for the purpose of making provision about monitoring compliance with,
or enforcement of, conditions of heat networks licences issued under section
5(5) of that Act.

224.2

Regulations under  this section  may, in particular, make provision
corresponding to the provision described in  paragraphs 6  to  10 ,  37  to
40 ,  43 ,  72  and  73  of  Schedule 18 .

224.3

Regulations under  this section  must provide for an offence created by the
regulations—

224.3.a

to be triable only summarily, and

224.3.b

to be punishable on conviction with imprisonment for a period not exceeding 3
months or a fine not exceeding level 1 on the standard scale (or both).

224.4

The Secretary of State may make regulations under this section only if the
Secretary of State has also made regulations under  section 223 (1)  (and
those regulations are still in force).

224.5

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Interpretation of Chapter 1

225

In this Chapter—

      “ the Department ” means the Department for the Economy in Northern
Ireland;           “ heat network ” has the meaning given by  section 216 ;
“ the NIAUR ” means the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation;
“ the Regulator ” has the meaning given by  section 217 ;           “ relevant
heat network ” has the meaning given by  section 216 .

#### Heat network zones

##### Zones regulations

###### Regulations about heat network zones

226

226.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about heat network
zones (“ zones regulations ”).

226.2

A heat network zone is an area in England that is designated as such under
zones regulations by virtue of being appropriate for the construction and
operation of one or more district heat networks.

226.3

The provision made by this Chapter is without prejudice to the generality of
subsection (1) .

226.4

Subject to  subsection (5) , zones regulations are subject to the affirmative
procedure.

226.5

Zones regulations which make provision of the kind described in  section 229
(1) (c)  or  (4) (c)  or  230 (2) (c)  or  (4)  (and no other provision) are
subject to the negative procedure.

226.6

If, apart from this section, a draft of an instrument containing zones
regulations would be treated for the purposes of the standing orders of either
House of Parliament as a hybrid instrument, it is to proceed in that House as
if it were not such an instrument.

##### Heat Network Zones Authority and zone coordinators

###### Heat Network Zones Authority

227

227.1

Zones regulations may designate a person to act as the Heat Network Zones
Authority (referred to in this Chapter as “ the Authority ”).

227.2

The purpose of the Authority is to carry out functions in relation to heat
network zones conferred on it by zones regulations.

227.3

The Secretary of State may, but need not, be designated for the purposes of
subsection (1) .

227.4

Zones regulations may provide for the Authority to delegate any of its
functions to persons specified in the regulations.

###### Zone coordinators

228

228.1

Zones regulations may make provision about zone coordinators.

228.2

The purpose of zone coordinators is to carry out functions conferred on them
by zones regulations in relation to particular heat network zones.

228.3

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (1)  may—

228.3.a

make provision for, or in connection with, the designation of a person as a
zone coordinator by a local authority for its area, or a part or parts of its
area (including the local authority designating itself);

228.3.b

make provision for, or in connection with, the designation of a person as a
zone coordinator by two or more local authorities for their areas or parts of
their areas (including the local authorities designating one of themselves);

228.3.c

make provision for, or in connection with, the establishment of a body by one
or more local authorities which is intended to be designated as a zone
coordinator in accordance with regulations made by virtue of  paragraph (a)
or  (b) ;

228.3.d

make provision about the funding of zone coordinators;

228.3.e

make provision about the governance of zone coordinators;

228.3.f

make provision about zone coordinators cooperating with the Regulator in
relation to zone coordinators’ functions or the Regulator’s functions;

228.3.g

make provision for the Authority to perform any function of a zone coordinator
in circumstances, and subject to requirements, specified by the regulations;

228.3.h

make provision for the Authority to direct a zone coordinator to perform any
of its functions in the manner the Authority considers appropriate in
circumstances, and subject to requirements, specified by the regulations.

228.4

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (3) (a)  and  (b)  may make
provision for the Authority—

228.4.a

to require a local authority, or two or more local authorities, to designate a
person as a zone coordinator in circumstances, and subject to requirements,
specified by the regulations;

228.4.b

to designate a person as a zone coordinator where a local authority (or local
authorities) fail to comply with a requirement imposed by virtue of paragraph
(a) .

228.5

In  this section , “ local authority ” means—

228.5.a

a county, district or parish council in England;

228.5.b

a London borough council;

228.5.c

the Common Council of the City of London;

228.5.d

the Council of the Isles of Scilly;

228.5.e

a combined authority established under section 103 of the Local Democracy,
Economic Development and Construction Act 2009;

228.5.f

another body or person specified by zones regulations.

##### Identification, designation and review of zones

###### Identification, designation and review of zones

229

229.1

Zones regulations may make provision for, or in connection with—

229.1.a

the identification by the Authority and zone coordinators of areas which are
appropriate for the construction and operation of one or more district heat
networks,

229.1.b

the designation of those areas as heat network zones by zone coordinators or
the Authority, and

229.1.c

the review by zone coordinators, or the Authority, of the designation of areas
as heat network zones.

229.2

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (1) (a)  must require the
identification of areas to be carried out in accordance with the zoning
methodology established under  section 230 .

229.3

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (1) (b)  may—

229.3.a

make provision about the variation or revocation of designations by zone
coordinators or the Authority;

229.3.b

make provision about procedure;

229.3.c

make provision about the publication of designations (and the variation or
revocation of designations);

229.3.d

require zone coordinators to notify the Authority of designations (and the
variation or revocation of designations);

229.3.e

make provision for, or in connection with, the maintenance by the Authority of
a register of areas designated as heat network zones.

229.4

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (3) (a)  may, in particular—

229.4.a

specify the circumstances in which a zone coordinator or the Authority may
vary or revoke a designation;

229.4.b

specify the factors a zone coordinator or the Authority may or must take into
consideration in determining whether to vary or revoke a designation;

229.4.c

impose on zone coordinators or the Authority requirements as to consultation.

229.5

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (1) (c)  may—

229.5.a

make provision about the circumstances in which reviews must be carried out
and the frequency of reviews;

229.5.b

set out the criteria against which the designation of areas as heat network
zones is to be reviewed;

229.5.c

impose on zone coordinators or the Authority requirements as to consultation;

229.5.d

make provision requiring reports of reviews to be published.

###### Zoning methodology

230

230.1

Zones regulations may make provision for a methodology (to be known as “ the
zoning methodology ”) for the Authority and zone coordinators to identify
areas which are appropriate for the construction and operation of one or more
district heat networks.

230.2

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (1)  may include in the zoning
methodology—

230.2.a

the criteria for determining whether an area is appropriate;

230.2.b

the roles of the Authority and zone coordinators;

230.2.c

requirements as to consultation;

230.2.d

provision about how the identification of areas is to be recorded, including
provision about the use of maps;

230.2.e

requirements as to publication of areas which have been identified.

230.3

Zones regulations may make provision for the Authority to issue guidance in
relation to the zoning methodology.

230.4

Zones regulations may make provision about the Secretary of State carrying out
reviews of the zoning methodology.

230.5

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (4)  may—

230.5.a

make provision about the circumstances in which reviews must be carried out
and the frequency of reviews;

230.5.b

set out the criteria against which the zoning methodology is to be reviewed;

230.5.c

impose on the Secretary of State requirements as to consultation;

230.5.d

make provision for the Authority or zone coordinators to consult persons on
behalf of the Secretary of State;

230.5.e

make provision requiring reports of reviews to be published.

###### Requests for information in connection with 

231

231.1

Zones regulations may make provision about the Authority and zone coordinators
requesting information in connection with their functions under regulations
made by virtue of  section 229  or  230 .

231.2

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (1)  may provide for—

231.2.a

the Authority or a zone coordinator to request information by notice from a
person of a description specified in the regulations;

231.2.b

the requested information to be provided within the period, and in the form
and manner, specified in the notice;

231.2.c

the Authority or zone coordinator to impose a penalty on a person for not
complying with the notice;

231.2.d

the disclosing of information requested by the zone coordinator not to breach
any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure or any
other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed);

231.2.e

a request for information not to require a disclosure of information if
disclosure would contravene the data protection legislation (but for a
requirement imposed by virtue of regulations made by virtue of  subsection (1)
to be taken into account in determining whether a disclosure would do so);

231.2.f

zone coordinators to delegate functions conferred on them by regulations made
by virtue of  subsection (1)  to a description of person, and in the
circumstances and subject to the conditions, specified by the regulations.

##### Heat networks within zones

###### Heat networks within zones

232

232.1

Zones regulations may make provision about heat networks within heat network
zones.

232.2

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (1)  may, in particular—

232.2.a

make provision imposing requirements on persons of a description specified in
the regulations for the purpose of securing that buildings of types specified
by the regulations situated within a heat network zone are connected to a
district heat network within the zone—

232.2.a.i

in circumstances specified by the regulations, and

232.2.a.ii

within a time specified by, or determined in accordance with, the regulations;

232.2.b

make provision about zone coordinators giving notice of requirements imposed
by regulations made by virtue of  paragraph (a)  to persons on whom
requirements are imposed;

232.2.c

make provision about the grant by zone coordinators of exemptions from
requirements imposed by regulations made by virtue of  paragraph (a) ;

232.2.d

make provision imposing requirements on persons of a description specified in
the regulations for the purpose of securing that buildings of types specified
by the regulations situated within a heat network zone are installed with
communal heat networks—

232.2.d.i

in circumstances specified by the regulations,

232.2.d.ii

within a time specified by, or determined in accordance with, the regulations,
and

232.2.d.iii

in a manner that would allow the communal heat networks to be connected to a
district heat network;

232.2.e

make provision for, or in connection with, the requesting of information from
a person, by notice given by a zone coordinator, about a source of thermal
energy located on the person’s premises that may be suitable to supply a
district heat network within a heat network zone;

232.2.f

make provision for, or in connection with, the imposition of a requirement on
a person, by notice given by a zone coordinator, to allow the installation of
equipment on the person’s premises, and the connection of that equipment to a
district heat network, to enable a source of thermal energy located on the
premises to supply a district heat network within a heat network zone;

232.2.g

make provision imposing requirements on persons of a description specified in
the regulations for the purpose of securing that machinery and other equipment
of types specified by the regulations are designed, and installed on premises,
in a manner which would enable thermal energy generated by the machinery or
other equipment to be supplied to a district heat network within a heat
network zone;

232.2.h

make provision about the terms on which thermal energy is supplied to a
district heat network in pursuance of regulations made by virtue of  paragraph
(f)  or  (g)  (including in particular provision about the amount that may be
charged);

232.2.i

make provision for, or in connection with, the setting by zone coordinators of
limits on emissions of targeted greenhouse gases resulting from district heat
networks within heat network zones;

232.2.j

make provision about zone coordinators affording a grace period to a person
who is required to comply with a limit imposed under regulations made by
virtue of  paragraph (i) .

232.3

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (2) (c)  may—

232.3.a

specify the criteria in accordance with which a zone coordinator is to
determine an application for an exemption;

232.3.b

make provision about procedure;

232.3.c

specify how, and on what grounds, a refusal to grant an exemption may be
appealed.

232.4

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (2) (e)  may—

232.4.a

specify the information about the source of thermal energy that may be
requested;

232.4.b

require the requested information to be provided within the period, and in the
form and manner, specified in the notice;

232.4.c

provide for the disclosing of information requested by the zone coordinator
not to breach any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the
disclosure or any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however
imposed);

232.4.d

provide for a request for information not to require a disclosure of
information if disclosure would contravene the data protection legislation
(but for a requirement imposed by virtue of regulations made by virtue of
subsection (2) (e)  to be taken into account in determining whether a
disclosure would do so);

232.4.e

provide for zone coordinators to delegate functions conferred on them by
regulations made by virtue of  subsection (2) (e)  to a description of person,
and in circumstances and subject to conditions, specified by the regulations.

232.5

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (2) (f)  may—

232.5.a

specify the types of sources of thermal energy in respect of which a zone
coordinator may or must impose a requirement on a person and in what
circumstances;

232.5.b

make provision about the period within which a person must comply with a
requirement;

232.5.c

specify how, and on what grounds, a requirement imposed on a person in respect
of a source of thermal energy may be appealed.

232.6

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (2) (i)  may—

232.6.a

specify the manner and form in which the limits are to be set;

232.6.b

require zone coordinators to obtain the consent of the Authority before
setting a limit.

232.7

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (2) (j)  may—

232.7.a

specify the circumstances in which a zone coordinator may or must afford a
person a grace period;

232.7.b

make provision for the Authority to issue guidance about grace periods;

232.7.c

make provision about procedure;

232.7.d

specify how, and on what grounds, a refusal to grant a grace period may be
appealed.

232.8

In  subsection (2) (d) , “ communal heat network ” has the meaning given by
section 217 (2) .

232.9

In  subsection (2) (i) , “ emissions ” and “ targeted greenhouse gas ” have
the same meaning as in the Climate Change Act 2008 (see sections 24 and 97 of
that Act).

232.10

In  subsections (2) (j)  and  (7) , “ grace period ” means a period to comply
before enforcement action is taken.

###### Delivery of district heat networks within zones

233

233.1

Zones regulations may make provision about the delivery of district heat
networks within heat network zones.

233.2

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (1)  may, in particular—

233.2.a

make provision about zone coordinators deciding—

233.2.a.i

what district heat networks may be constructed and operated within a heat
network zone;

233.2.a.ii

who will design, construct, operate and maintain district heat networks within
heat network zones;

233.2.b

make provision about zone coordinators designing, constructing, operating or
maintaining district heat networks within heat network zones, or arranging for
their design, construction, operation or maintenance;

233.2.c

make provision about the giving of advice by the Authority to zone
coordinators about the delivery of district heat networks within heat network
zones.

233.3

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (2) (a) (ii)  may—

233.3.a

make provision for the construction, operation or maintenance of district heat
networks within heat network zones to be subject to the consent of zone
coordinators;

233.3.b

make provision for the grant by zone coordinators of an exclusive right to
design, construct, operate or maintain district heat networks within heat
network zones or parts of heat network zones.

233.4

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (3) (b)  may—

233.4.a

make provision for the Authority to publish the standard conditions that zone
coordinators must use when granting an exclusive right (and for the Authority
to amend or replace the standard conditions);

233.4.b

specify the circumstances in which zone coordinators may grant an exclusive
right.

233.5

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (2) (a)  may—

233.5.a

specify the manner and form of zone coordinators’ decisions under regulations
made by virtue of  subsection (2) (a) ;

233.5.b

make provision for a zone coordinator to vary or revoke a decision;

233.5.c

specify considerations a zone coordinator may or must take into account when
making, varying or revoking a decision;

233.5.d

make provision about procedure;

233.5.e

make provision about the publication of a decision (or the variation or
revocation of a decision);

233.5.f

specify how, and on what grounds, a decision, or a variation or revocation of
a decision, may be appealed;

233.5.g

make provision for a zone coordinator to lose the power to decide the matters
specified in  subsection (2) (a) (i)  and  (ii) , and instead for those
matters to no longer be subject to the zone coordinator’s control, if the zone
coordinator does not take steps specified by the regulations within a time
specified by the regulations.

##### Enforcement

###### Enforcement of heat network zone requirements

234

234.1

Zones regulations may make provision about the enforcement of heat network
zone requirements.

234.2

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (1)  may, in particular, provide for
a zone coordinator—

234.2.a

to issue a notice requiring a person to demonstrate compliance with a heat
network zone requirement where the zone coordinator suspects that the person
is not complying with the requirement;

234.2.b

to issue a notice specifying steps a person is required to take in order to
comply with a heat network zone requirement where the zone coordinator is
satisfied that the person is not complying with the requirement;

234.2.c

to impose a penalty on a person for the contravention of—

234.2.c.i

a heat network zone requirement, or

234.2.c.ii

a requirement imposed by a notice under regulations made by virtue of
paragraph (a)  or  (b) .

234.3

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (2) (a)  or  (b)  may—

234.3.a

make provision about the period within which a person must comply with a
notice;

234.3.b

make provision about procedure;

234.3.c

specify how, and on what grounds, a notice may be appealed.

234.4

In  this section , “ heat network zone requirement ” means a requirement
imposed by or by virtue of regulations made by virtue of  section 232  or  233
.

###### Penalties

235

235.1

Zones regulations made by virtue of  section 231 (2) (c)  or  234 (2) (c)
may—

235.1.a

make provision about the maximum amount that may be imposed by way of penalty;

235.1.b

make provision about procedure;

235.1.c

specify how a penalty may be recovered;

235.1.d

require sums received by way of penalty to be paid into the Consolidated Fund
or to persons specified by the regulations.

235.2

Zones regulations made by virtue of  section 231 (2) (c)  or  234 (2) (c)
must include provision for a right of appeal against the imposition of a
penalty.

235.3

Zones regulations may provide for the publication of guidance by the Authority
with respect to—

235.3.a

the imposition of penalties under regulations made by virtue of  section 231
(2) (c)  or  234 (2) (c) , and

235.3.b

the determination of their amount.

##### Records, information and reporting

###### Records, information and reporting

236

236.1

Zones regulations may make provision requiring zone coordinators to collect
information specified by the regulations which—

236.1.a

is relevant to identifying areas which are appropriate for the construction
and operation of one or more district heat networks, or

236.1.b

relates to areas designated as heat network zones.

236.2

Zones regulations may make provision requiring zone coordinators to maintain
records of—

236.2.a

information provided to zone coordinators in response to requests for
information made by zone coordinators under regulations made by virtue of
section 231  or  232 (2) (e) ;

236.2.b

information zone coordinators are required to collect by regulations made by
virtue of  subsection (1)  of this section;

236.2.c

other information provided to, collected by, or otherwise brought into the
possession of zone coordinators by virtue of their functions under zones
regulations.

236.3

Zones regulations may make provision enabling or requiring zone coordinators
to provide information specified by the regulations from their records to—

236.3.a

to other zone coordinators;

236.3.b

the Authority;

236.3.c

the Regulator.

236.4

Zone regulations may require the Authority to maintain records of—

236.4.a

information provided to the Authority in response to requests for information
made by the Authority under regulations made by virtue of  section 231 ;

236.4.b

information provided by zone coordinators to the Authority in accordance with
regulations made by virtue of  subsection (3)  of  this section ;

236.4.c

other information provided to, collected by, or otherwise brought into the
possession of the Authority by virtue of its functions under zones
regulations.

236.5

Zones regulations may make provision enabling or requiring the Authority to
provide information specified by the regulations from its records to—

236.5.a

zone coordinators;

236.5.b

the Regulator.

236.6

Zones regulations may make provision—

236.6.a

for the disclosure of information by a zone coordinator or the Authority in
accordance with regulations made by virtue of  subsection (3)  or  (5)  not to
breach any obligation of confidence owed by the zone coordinator or the
Authority or any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however
imposed);

236.6.b

for regulations made by virtue of  subsection (3)  or  (5)  not to authorise
or require disclosure of information if disclosure would contravene the data
protection legislation (but for a power conferred, or requirement imposed, by
regulations made by virtue of  subsection (3)  or  (5)  to be taken into
account in determining whether a disclosure would do so).

##### Interpretation

###### Interpretation of Chapter 2

237

In this Chapter—

      “ the Authority ” means the person designated as the Heat Network Zones
Authority by regulations made by virtue of  section 227 (1) ;           “ the
data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data Protection
Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act);           “ district heat network ” has
the meaning given by  section 216 (2) ;           “ heat network ” has the
meaning given by  section 216 (2) ;           “ heat network zone ” has the
meaning given by  section 226 (2) ;           “ the Regulator ” has the
meaning given by  section 217 (1) (a) ;           “ zone coordinator ” means a
person designated as such under regulations made by virtue of  section 228 (3)
(a) ;           “ zones regulations ” means regulations under  section 226 ;
“ the zoning methodology ” has the meaning given by  section 230 (1) .

### Energy smart appliances and load control

#### Introductory

##### Energy smart appliances and load control

238

238.1

The following definitions apply for the purposes of  this Part .

238.2

“ Energy smart appliance ” means an appliance which is capable of adjusting
the immediate or future flow of electricity into or out of itself or another
appliance in response to a load control signal; and includes any software or
other systems which enable or facilitate the adjustment to be made in response
to the signal.

238.3

The functionality described in  subsection (2)  is referred to as the “ energy
smart function ”.

238.4

“ Load control signal ” means a digital communication sent via a relevant
electronic communications network to an energy smart appliance for the purpose
of causing or otherwise facilitating such an adjustment.

238.5

For the purposes of subsection (2) an adjustment to the flow of electricity
into or out of an appliance is made in response to a load control signal
whether it is made in response to—

238.5.a

the sending of the signal, or

238.5.b

the sending of the signal and one or more additional factors.

238.6

The sending of a load control signal to an energy smart appliance is referred
to as “ load control ”.

238.7

Regulations under  section 239 , excluding regulations under  section 239 (6)
, are referred to as “ energy smart regulations ”.

#### Energy smart appliances

##### Energy smart regulations

239

239.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about energy smart
appliances that are—

239.1.a

capable of being used in connection with any of the purposes specified in
subsection (2) , or

239.1.b

charge points (for electric vehicles).

239.2

The specified purposes are—

239.2.a

refrigeration;

239.2.b

cleaning tableware;

239.2.c

washing or drying textiles;

239.2.d

storing energy that—

239.2.d.i

was converted from electricity, and

239.2.d.ii

is stored for the purpose of its future reconversion into electricity;

239.2.e

heating;

239.2.f

air conditioning or ventilation.

239.3

In making such regulations, the Secretary of State must, in particular, have
regard to the desirability of ensuring that—

239.3.a

the energy smart function or compatibility with that function is incorporated
into appliances in a manner that is compliant with the regulations,

239.3.b

the energy smart function does not undermine the delivery of a consistent and
stable supply of electricity,

239.3.c

the energy smart function in any energy smart appliance is capable of
operating in response to load control signals from any person carrying out
load control, and

239.3.d

communications, software, systems and personal and other data used in
connection with energy smart appliances are secure or otherwise protected, for
purposes including the protection of end-users.

239.4

Such regulations may, in particular—

239.4.a

make provision about all energy smart appliances or any description of energy
smart appliances;

239.4.b

impose technical or other requirements in relation to such appliances,
including requirements to display or otherwise provide information about
appliances;

239.4.c

prohibit the placing on the market of, or other activities in connection with,
relevant appliances (see  section 240 (3) );

239.4.d

make provision about the recall of appliances to prevent, or in response to,
non-compliance with the regulations;

239.4.e

make provision for the Secretary of State to issue guidance about prohibitions
or requirements imposed by or under the regulations;

239.4.f

provide for the enforcement of the regulations.

239.5

Such regulations may impose prohibitions or requirements on any person,
including any person making, supplying, importing or distributing energy smart
appliances or carrying out load control (but see  section 240 (6) ).

239.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

239.6.a

make provision about the meaning that “relevant electronic communications
network” is to have for the purposes of  this Part ;

239.6.b

amend the list of purposes in  subsection (2) .

239.7

In  this Chapter , “ charge point ” has the same meaning as in Part 2 of the
Automated and Electric Vehicles Act 2018 (see section 9 of that Act).

##### Prohibitions and requirements: supplemental

240

240.1

Requirements imposed by energy smart regulations may, in particular, refer or
relate to—

240.1.a

published documents and standards (as they have effect from time to time);

240.1.b

a list, published by the Secretary of State, of such documents and standards;

240.1.c

requirements (however described) imposed by or under any enactment or Act of
the Scottish Parliament.

240.2

Prohibitions imposed by energy smart regulations may, in particular, relate
to—

240.2.a

the providing of load control for appliances that are not compliant with the
regulations;

240.2.b

the modification of appliances in a manner that would cause them to cease to
be compliant with the regulations.

240.3

The following kinds of appliances are “ relevant appliances ” for the purposes
of  section 239 (4) (c) —

240.3.a

energy smart appliances that are not compliant with requirements or particular
requirements of energy smart regulations;

240.3.b

appliances without the energy smart function, or that are not compatible with
the energy smart function of another appliance, and are—

240.3.b.i

charge points (for electric vehicles), or

240.3.b.ii

electrical heating appliances.

240.4

The reference in  subsection (3) (b) (ii)  to electrical heating appliances
includes a reference to heat pumps.

240.5

In  this Chapter , “ modification of appliances ” has the meaning given by
energy smart regulations.

240.6

Energy smart regulations may not provide for a prohibition to be contravened
by an end-user of an appliance (in their capacity as such) or for such a
person to be enforced against as described in  section 241  or  242 .

##### Enforcement

241

241.1

Provision for the enforcement of energy smart regulations may, in particular,
include provision of a kind described in  this section ,  section 242  or
section 243 .

241.2

Energy smart regulations may include provision to ensure compliance with any
prohibition or requirement imposed by or under the regulations, including
provision—

241.2.a

designating authorities to carry out enforcement (referred to in  this Chapter
as “enforcement authorities”);

241.2.b

requiring persons to—

241.2.b.i

maintain information;

241.2.b.ii

monitor compliance and report non-compliance;

241.2.b.iii

take specified steps to remedy non-compliance;

241.2.c

requiring persons to supply evidence of their compliance to enforcement
authorities;

241.2.d

conferring powers of entry, including by reasonable force;

241.2.e

conferring powers of inspection, search and seizure;

241.2.f

conferring powers to require the production of information or things held at,
or electronically accessible from, entered premises;

241.2.g

conferring powers to enable the testing of energy smart appliances by
enforcement authorities, including powers to require the provision of sample
appliances and powers to make test purchases;

241.2.h

conferring functions, including functions involving the exercise of a
discretion.

241.3

Regulations conferring powers described in  subsection (2) (d) ,  (e)  or  (f)
must provide that persons exercising those powers are to produce evidence of
their authority if required to do so.

241.4

The regulations may not allow entry to premises by reasonable force without a
warrant issued by a justice of the peace or, in Scotland, a sheriff or summary
sheriff.

241.5

Energy smart regulations may allow enforcement authorities to impose
requirements by written notice on persons to—

241.5.a

produce information or things;

241.5.b

make appliances compliant with energy smart regulations;

241.5.c

stop or limit—

241.5.c.i

the placing on the market of, or other activities in connection with,
appliances,

241.5.c.ii

the providing of load control to appliances, or

241.5.c.iii

the modification of appliances,

for the purpose of preventing or mitigating non-compliance with energy smart
regulations;

241.5.d

recall appliances to prevent, or in response to, non-compliance with energy
smart regulations.

241.6

Regulations that allow an enforcement authority to impose requirements may
also provide for—

241.6.a

the authority to apply to a court or tribunal in connection with a failure to
comply with a requirement, and

241.6.b

the court or tribunal, if satisfied that such a failure has occurred, to make
an order for the purpose of securing compliance with the requirement.

241.7

Such an order may require a person to take, or refrain from taking, steps
specified in the order (including at, by or until specified times).

241.8

Energy smart regulations may make provision to enable an enforcement authority
to accept an enforcement undertaking from a person where the authority has
reasonable grounds to suspect that the person has failed to comply with any
prohibition or requirement imposed by or under the regulations.

241.9

An “enforcement undertaking” is an undertaking to take such action to secure
compliance with the regulations as may be specified in the undertaking within
such period as may be so specified.

241.10

Provision made by virtue of  subsection (8)  must include provision that
unless the person from whom the undertaking was accepted has failed to comply
with the undertaking or any part of it—

241.10.a

that person may not at any time be convicted of an offence in respect of the
act or omission to which the undertaking relates, and

241.10.b

the enforcement authority may not impose on that person any penalty which it
would otherwise have power to impose under the regulations in respect of that
act or omission.

241.11

Provision made by virtue of  subsection (8)  may include any provision of a
kind mentioned in section 50(5) of the Regulatory Enforcement and Sanctions
Act 2008.

241.12

The Secretary of State may make payments or provide other resources to, or in
respect of, enforcement authorities in connection with the exercise of
functions under energy smart regulations.

241.13

Energy smart regulations may provide for an enforcement authority to issue
guidance about the enforcement of the regulations and the exercise by the
authority of its functions under the regulations.

##### Sanctions, offences and recovery of costs

242

242.1

Energy smart regulations may provide for sanctions to be imposed on persons in
relation to—

242.1.a

non-compliance with a prohibition or requirement imposed by or under such
regulations;

242.1.b

providing false or misleading information in relation to any such prohibition
or requirement.

242.2

The regulations may, in particular, provide for the imposition of civil
penalties, including graduated or multiple penalties in connection with a
continuous or serious act or omission.

242.3

Energy smart regulations may create offences relating to—

242.3.a

contraventions (by act or omission) of requirements imposed by enforcement
authorities;

242.3.b

knowingly giving false or misleading information to enforcement authorities;

242.3.c

the obstruction (by act or omission) of persons acting on behalf of
enforcement authorities;

242.3.d

the impersonation of persons acting on behalf of enforcement authorities.

242.4

Regulations which create an offence must provide for the offence to be triable
only summarily.

242.5

Regulations may not provide for an offence to be punishable with imprisonment.

242.6

Regulations may provide for enforcement authorities to recover costs.

##### Appeals against enforcement action

243

243.1

Energy smart regulations that provide for the imposition of a requirement or
civil penalty by an enforcement authority must include provision for a right
of appeal to a court or tribunal against that requirement or penalty.

243.2

Provision falling within  subsection (1)  includes, in particular, provision—

243.2.a

as to the jurisdiction of the court or tribunal to which an appeal may be
made;

243.2.b

as to the grounds on which an appeal may be made;

243.2.c

as to the procedure for making an appeal (including any fee which may be
payable);

243.2.d

suspending the imposition of the requirement or penalty, pending determination
of the appeal;

243.2.e

as to the powers of the court or tribunal to which an appeal is made;

243.2.f

as to how any sum payable in pursuance of a decision of the court or tribunal
is to be recoverable.

243.3

In relation to the imposition of a requirement, the regulations may provide
for persons other than the person against whom the requirement was imposed to
also have a right of appeal.

243.4

The provision referred to in  subsection (2) (e)  includes provision
conferring on the court or tribunal to which an appeal is made power—

243.4.a

to confirm or withdraw the requirement or penalty;

243.4.b

to vary or remove a part of the requirement;

243.4.c

to vary the amount of the penalty;

243.4.d

to award costs or, in Scotland, expenses.

243.5

If the Secretary of State considers it appropriate for the purpose of, or in
consequence of, any provision falling within  subsection (2) (a) ,  (c) ,  (e)
or  (f) , the regulations may revoke or amend any subordinate legislation.

243.6

In  this section  “ subordinate legislation ” has the meaning given in section
21(1) of the Interpretation Act 1978 and includes an instrument made under—

243.6.a

an Act of the Scottish Parliament;

243.6.b

a Measure or Act of the Senedd Cymru.

##### Regulations: procedure and supplemental

244

244.1

Regulations under  section 239  may provide for exemptions or exceptions.

244.2

Energy smart regulations may make provision about the sharing of information
between an enforcement authority and the GEMA for the purposes of their
functions in relation to energy smart appliances and load control.

244.3

The Secretary of State must consult such persons as the Secretary of State
thinks fit before making regulations under  section 239  that—

244.3.a

make a description of appliance subject to energy smart regulations;

244.3.b

amend the list of purposes in  section 239 (2) .

244.4

Subsection (3)  may be satisfied by consultation before, as well as by
consultation after, the passing of this Act.

244.5

The first energy smart regulations, and any regulations under  section 239
that (with or without other provision) amend the list of purposes in  section
239 (2)  or create a criminal offence (see  section 242 ), are subject to the
affirmative procedure.

244.6

Energy smart regulations that are not within subsection  (5)  are subject to
the made affirmative procedure if they—

244.6.a

are the first energy smart regulations to make provision about a particular
description of energy smart appliance,

244.6.b

make provision by virtue of  section 239 (4) (b)  imposing requirements of a
kind not previously imposed by energy smart regulations,

244.6.c

make provision by virtue of  section 240 (1) (a)  or (b) by reference or in
relation to a published document, standard or list (as the case may be) in
respect of which such provision has not previously been made,

244.6.d

confer new powers for the enforcement of energy smart regulations, or

244.6.e

make provision by virtue of  section 242 (2)  for the imposition of new civil
penalties.

244.7

A revised version of a published document, standard or list is to be
disregarded for the purposes of  subsection (6) (c)  if provision has
previously been made in respect of the document, standard or list by virtue of
section 240 (1) (a)  or (b) (as the case may be).

244.8

Any other regulations under  section 239  are subject to the negative
procedure.

#### Licensing of load control

##### Power to amend licence conditions etc: load control

245

245.1

The Secretary of State may modify—

245.1.a

the conditions of a licence granted under section 6(1) of the Electricity Act
1989;

245.1.b

the standard conditions incorporated in such licences by virtue of section 8A
of that Act;

245.1.c

the conditions of a licence granted under section 7A(1) or 7AB of the Gas Act
1986;

245.1.d

the standard conditions incorporated in such licences by virtue of section 8
of that Act;

245.1.e

a document maintained in accordance with the conditions of a licence granted
under section 6(1) of the Electricity Act 1989 or section 7A(1) or 7AB of the
Gas Act 1986, or an agreement that gives effect to a document so maintained.

245.2

The Secretary of State may exercise the power conferred by subsection  (1)
for the purposes of facilitating, promoting, ensuring the security of, or
otherwise regulating load control or other activities falling within section
56FBA(2) of the Electricity Act 1989.

245.3

Modifications made to the conditions of a licence may include provisions of a
kind mentioned in section 7 of the Electricity Act 1989 or section 7B of the
Gas Act 1986 (as appropriate) and may in particular—

245.3.a

regulate or prohibit the provision of load control in relation to appliances
that are not compliant with energy smart regulations or any technical
standards specified in or under a condition;

245.3.b

regulate the provision of load control in relation to appliances that are
compliant with energy smart regulations or any technical standards specified
in or under a condition;

245.3.c

require the holder of a licence to supply information to the Secretary of
State or the GEMA (or both) so as to enable them to assess any matter relating
to the purposes mentioned in subsection  (2) ;

245.3.d

require the holder of the licence to enter (or refrain from entering) into an
agreement of a specified kind, or with a specified person;

245.3.e

require the holder of a licence to supply information about tariffs (including
to such persons, and in such a format, specified in or under a condition).

245.4

The power conferred by subsection  (1) —

245.4.a

may be exercised to make different provision in relation to different areas or
different classes of customer;

245.4.b

may be exercised generally, only in relation to specified cases or subject to
exceptions (including provision for a case to be excepted only so long as
specified conditions are satisfied);

245.4.c

may be exercised differently in different cases or circumstances;

245.4.d

includes a power to make incidental, supplementary, consequential or
transitional modifications.

245.5

The power conferred by subsection  (1)  may not be exercised after the period
of 10 years beginning with the day on which  this section  comes into force.

245.6

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, extend (or further extend) that
period.

245.7

Regulations under  subsection (6) —

245.7.a

may not extend the period (or any extended period) by more than three years at
a time, and

245.7.b

are subject to the affirmative procedure.

245.8

In  this section  “ modify ” includes remove or fail to incorporate and “
modification ” is to be construed accordingly.

##### Power to amend licence conditions etc: procedure

246

246.1

Before making a modification, the Secretary of State must consult—

246.1.a

the holder of any licence being modified,

246.1.b

the GEMA, and

246.1.c

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

246.2

Subsection  (1)  may be satisfied by consultation before, as well as by
consultation after, the passing of this Act.

246.3

The Secretary of State must specify the date upon which any modification is to
have effect.

246.4

The Secretary of State must publish details of any modifications as soon as
reasonably practicable after they are made.

246.5

In  this section  “ modification ” means a modification under  section 245 .

##### Load control: supplemental

247

247.1

A modification under  section 245  of part of a standard condition of a
licence does not prevent any other part of the condition from continuing to be
regarded as a standard condition for the purposes of Part 1 of the Gas Act
1986 or Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989.

247.2

Where the Secretary of State makes modifications under  section 245 (1) (b)
or  (e)  of the standard conditions of a licence of any type, the GEMA must—

247.2.a

make the same modification of those standard conditions for the purposes of
their incorporation in licences of that type granted after that time, and

247.2.b

publish the modification.

##### Application of general duties to functions relating to load control

248

248.1

Sections 4AA to 4B of the Gas Act 1986 (principal objectives and general
duties) apply to the carrying out, as respects the matters mentioned in
subsection (2) , of functions conferred on the Secretary of State or the GEMA
by or under sections  245  to  247 .

248.2

The matters are—

248.2.a

activities required to be authorised by gas licences,

248.2.b

such licences and the conditions of such licences,

248.2.c

documents maintained in accordance with the conditions of such licences, or
agreements that give effect to documents so maintained, and

248.2.d

companies holding such licences.

248.3

In section 4AA(2)(b) of the Gas Act 1986 (duty to have regard to ability of
licence holders to finance obligations) for “or sections 26 to 29 of the
Energy Act 2010” substitute  “, sections 26 to 29 of the Energy Act 2010, or
sections  245  to  247  of the Energy Act 2023” .

248.4

Sections 3A to 3D of the Electricity Act 1989 (principal objectives and
general duties) apply to the carrying out, as respects the matters mentioned
in  subsection (5) , of functions conferred on the Secretary of State or the
GEMA by or under sections  245  to  247 .

248.5

The matters are—

248.5.a

activities required to be authorised by electricity licences,

248.5.b

such licences and the conditions of such licences,

248.5.c

documents maintained in accordance with the conditions of such licences, or
agreements that give effect to documents so maintained, and

248.5.d

companies holding such licences.

248.6

In section 3A(2)(b) of the Electricity Act 1989 (duty to have regard to
ability of licence holders to finance obligations) for “or the Nuclear Energy
(Financing) Act 2022” substitute  “, the Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022
or sections  245  to  247  of the Energy Act 2023” .

248.7

In section 33(1) of the Utilities Act 2000 (standard conditions of electricity
licences)—

248.7.a

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (i), and

248.7.b

after paragraph (j) insert

or,

248.7.b.k

under sections  245  to  247  of the Energy Act 2023.

248.8

In  this section —

      “ electricity licence ” means a licence for the purposes of section 4 of
the Electricity Act 1989 (prohibition on unlicensed activities);           “
gas licence ” means a licence for the purposes of section 5 of the Gas Act
1986 (prohibition on unlicensed activities).

##### Licensing of activities relating to load control

249

Schedule 19 , which amends the Electricity Act 1989, provides for the
licensing of load control.

### Energy performance of premises

#### Power to make energy performance regulations

250

250.1

The appropriate authority may make regulations for any of these purposes—

250.1.a

enabling or requiring the energy usage or energy efficiency of premises to be
assessed, certified and publicised;

250.1.b

enabling or requiring possible improvements in the energy usage or energy
efficiency of premises to be identified and recommended;

250.1.c

restricting or prohibiting the marketing and disposal of premises on the basis
of whether their energy usage or energy efficiency has been assessed,
certified or publicised.

250.2

In this Part regulations under  this section  are referred to as “ energy
performance regulations ”.

250.3

Energy performance regulations may—

250.3.a

provide for—

250.3.a.i

the regulations to apply to specified descriptions of premises, or

250.3.a.ii

specified descriptions of premises to be excluded from the application of the
regulations;

250.3.b

confer functions on any person;

250.3.c

provide for functions to be exercisable only if specified conditions are met
(including conditions as to the eligibility of persons to exercise the
functions);

250.3.d

provide for the energy usage or energy efficiency of premises to be assessed
or certified by reference to information that is obtained, produced or kept
otherwise than under energy performance regulations;

250.3.e

impose requirements on any person;

250.3.f

make provision for the purpose of securing compliance with requirements
imposed by or under energy performance regulations (see  section 252 );

250.3.g

authorise or require, or restrict or prohibit, the supply or keeping of
information (including authorising or requiring supply or keeping of
information that would otherwise be prohibited);

250.3.h

provide for the charging of fees.

250.4

A reference in this Part to publicising the energy usage and energy efficiency
of premises includes—

250.4.a

displaying energy performance information in the premises to which it relates;

250.4.b

arranging for energy performance information to be entered into a record of
such information (including a record that is publicly accessible);

250.4.c

reporting energy performance information;

250.4.d

supplying energy performance information.

250.5

In this Part—

      “ the appropriate authority ” means—         in relation to England and
Wales, the Secretary of State;           in relation to Scotland, the Scottish
Ministers;           in relation to Northern Ireland, the Department;
“ certified ” means certified in accordance with energy performance
regulations;           “ the Department ” means the Department of Finance in
Northern Ireland;           “ disposal of premises ” includes leasing or
letting of premises;           “ energy performance information ” means
information about the energy usage or energy efficiency of premises;
“ premises ” means—         a building or a part of a building (including any
equipment, systems or facilities used by the building or the part), or
any equipment, systems or facilities used by a building or a part of a
building;                 “ specified ” means specified in energy performance
regulations.

#### Energy performance regulations relating to new premises

251

251.1

The power to make energy performance regulations is exercisable in relation to
new premises.

251.2

Accordingly, in  section 250  (except in the definition of “premises” in
section 250 (5) )—

251.2.a

a reference to premises includes new premises;

251.2.b

a reference to the energy usage and energy efficiency of premises includes the
anticipated energy usage and energy efficiency of new premises.

251.3

In  this section  “ new premises ” means premises—

251.3.a

which are being constructed or adapted, or

251.3.b

which it is proposed to construct or adapt.

#### Sanctions

252

252.1

The enforcement provision that may be made includes provision—

252.1.a

for a person with public functions to enforce a requirement imposed by or
under energy performance regulations;

252.1.b

about the sanctions for non-compliance with a requirement imposed by or under
energy performance regulations;

252.1.c

about the sanctions for the provision of false information in connection with
such a requirement;

252.1.d

about the sanctions for obstruction of, or impersonation of, an enforcement
authority or a person acting for an enforcement authority.

252.2

Energy performance regulations may provide for the imposition of civil
penalties by enforcement authorities in relation to cases falling within
subsection (1) (b) ,  (c)  or  (d) ; but the regulations may not provide for a
civil penalty that exceeds £15,000.

252.3

Energy performance regulations may provide for the creation of criminal
offences in relation to cases falling within subsection (1)(b), (c) or (d);
but the regulations may not provide for a criminal offence to be punishable—

252.3.a

with imprisonment for a term exceeding 12 months, or

252.3.b

with a fine of more than level 5 on the standard scale.

252.4

Where energy performance regulations make provision for a civil penalty, the
regulations must also include provision for a right of appeal to a court or
tribunal against the imposition of the penalty.

252.5

Provision falling within  subsection (4)  includes, in particular, provision—

252.5.a

as to the jurisdiction of the court or tribunal to which an appeal may be
made;

252.5.b

as to the grounds on which an appeal may be made;

252.5.c

as to the procedure for making an appeal (including any fee which may be
payable);

252.5.d

suspending the imposition of the penalty, pending determination of the appeal;

252.5.e

as to the powers of the court or tribunal to which an appeal is made;

252.5.f

as to how any sum payable in pursuance of a decision of the court or tribunal
is to be recoverable.

252.6

The provision referred to in  subsection (5) (e)  includes provision
conferring on the court or tribunal to which an appeal is made power—

252.6.a

to confirm the penalty;

252.6.b

to withdraw the penalty;

252.6.c

to vary the amount of the penalty;

252.6.d

to award costs.

252.7

The appropriate authority may, by regulations, amend the amount specified in
subsection (2) for the purpose of reflecting inflation.

252.8

In  this section —

      “ enforcement authority ” means a person on whom energy performance
regulations confer the function of enforcing any requirement imposed by or
under energy performance regulations;           “ enforcement provision ”
means provision falling within  section 250 (3) (f) .

#### Regulations under 

253

253.1

Regulations under this Part may amend, repeal or revoke provision made by or
under primary legislation.

253.2

Regulations under this Part containing provision within subsection  (3)  (with
or without other provision)—

253.2.a

if made by the Secretary of State, are subject to the affirmative procedure
(see  section 332 );

253.2.b

if made by the Scottish Ministers, are subject to the affirmative procedure
(see section 29 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act
2010 (asp 10) );

253.2.c

if made by the Department, may not be made unless a draft of the regulations
has been laid before and approved by a resolution of the Northern Ireland
Assembly.

253.3

The provision within this subsection is—

253.3.a

provision creating a criminal offence or civil penalty (but excluding
provision modifying the circumstances in which a person is guilty of an
existing offence or liable for an existing civil penalty);

253.3.b

provision specifying a civil penalty amount (but excluding provision made by
virtue of  section 252 (7)  (inflation-related adjustments));

253.3.c

provision amending or repealing provision made by primary legislation.

253.4

Any other regulations under this Part—

253.4.a

if made by the Secretary of State, are subject to the negative procedure (see
section 332 );

253.4.b

if made by the Scottish Ministers, are subject to the negative procedure (see
section 28 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act  2010
(asp 10) );

253.4.c

if made by the Department, are subject to negative resolution within the
meaning given by section 41(6) of the Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland)
1954 (c. 33 (N.I.)) .

253.5

Regulations under this Part—

253.5.a

may make provision about application to the Crown; and

253.5.b

may also, to the extent that they bind the Crown, restrict or modify the
application of the regulations.

253.6

A power of the Department to make regulations under this Part is exercisable
by statutory rule for the purposes of the Statutory Rules (Northern Ireland)
Order 1979 ( S.I. 1979/1573 (N.I. 12)) .

253.7

In this section “ primary legislation ” means—

253.7.a

an Act of Parliament,

253.7.b

an Act of the Scottish Parliament,

253.7.c

an Act or Measure of Senedd Cymru, or

253.7.d

Northern Ireland legislation.

### Energy Savings Opportunity Schemes

#### Establishment and application of schemes

##### Energy savings opportunity schemes

254

254.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations (“ ESOS regulations ”) make
provision for the establishment and operation of one or more energy savings
opportunity schemes.

254.2

An “energy savings opportunity scheme” is a scheme under which obligations are
imposed on undertakings to which the scheme applies for one or more of the
ESOS purposes.

254.3

The ESOS purposes are—

254.3.a

enabling or requiring the energy consumption for which an undertaking is
responsible, or the greenhouse gas emissions resulting from that consumption,
to be assessed, audited, reported and published;

254.3.b

enabling or requiring possible energy savings or emissions reductions to be
identified and recommended;

254.3.c

enabling or requiring the costs and benefits of possible energy savings or
emissions reductions to be assessed;

254.3.d

encouraging or requiring undertakings to produce plans or set targets for
achieving energy savings or emissions reductions;

254.3.e

encouraging or requiring undertakings to take action for the purpose of
achieving energy savings or emissions reductions;

254.3.f

encouraging or requiring undertakings to achieve energy savings or emissions
reductions.

254.4

An energy saving is a reduction in the energy consumption for which an
undertaking is responsible.

254.5

An emissions reduction is a reduction in the greenhouse gas emissions that
result from the energy consumption for which an undertaking is responsible
(whether or not that consumption is also reduced).

254.6

ESOS regulations may make provision about determining—

254.6.a

the energy consumption for which an undertaking is responsible;

254.6.b

the greenhouse gas emissions resulting from that consumption.

254.7

ESOS regulations may—

254.7.a

impose requirements on any person;

254.7.b

confer functions on any person;

254.7.c

provide for a person to exercise discretion in dealing with any matter.

254.8

The provision made by this Part is without prejudice to the generality of
subsection  (1) .

254.9

For the purposes of this Part—

254.9.a

the scheme established by the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme Regulations
2014 ( S.I. 2014/1643 ) is to be treated as having been established by
provision made under  subsection (1) ;

254.9.b

a reference to a scheme administrator includes a reference to a compliance
body within the meaning given by those Regulations.

##### Application of energy savings opportunity schemes

255

255.1

ESOS regulations may provide for—

255.1.a

an energy savings opportunity scheme to apply to specified descriptions of
undertakings;

255.1.b

specified descriptions of undertakings to be excluded from the application of
the scheme.

255.2

ESOS regulations may make provision about circumstances in which—

255.2.a

two or more participants are to be treated for the purposes of the regulations
as if they were a single participant;

255.2.b

an obligation imposed under the regulations on one participant is to be
treated as if it had been imposed on a different participant.

255.3

The provisions of this Part relating to energy consumption apply to energy
consumed by assets located, or activities carried on—

255.3.a

wholly or partly in the United Kingdom;

255.3.b

wholly or partly in an offshore area;

255.3.c

where  subsection (4)  applies, elsewhere.

255.4

ESOS regulations may make provision about circumstances in which the energy
consumption for which a participant is, for the purposes of the regulations,
responsible may include energy consumed by—

255.4.a

assets located elsewhere than in the United Kingdom or an offshore area, or

255.4.b

activities carried on elsewhere than in the United Kingdom or an offshore
area.

255.5

The provisions of this Part relating to greenhouse gas emissions apply to the
emissions resulting from energy consumption to which this Part applies whether
such emissions occur in the United Kingdom, in an offshore area or elsewhere.

255.6

ESOS regulations may make provision about the attribution of energy
consumption to participants, including in particular provision about the
treatment for the purposes of the regulations of—

255.6.a

a participant’s consumption of energy generated by that participant;

255.6.b

energy consumption by a person over whom a participant has control or
influence;

255.6.c

energy consumption shared between a participant and one or more other
participants or other persons;

255.6.d

energy consumed by assets held on trust by or for a participant.

255.7

In this section, “ offshore area ” means—

255.7.a

waters landward of the seaward limit of the territorial sea adjacent to the
United Kingdom,

255.7.b

any designated area within the meaning of section 1(7) of the Continental
Shelf Act 1964, and

255.7.c

any area for the time being designated under section 41(3) of the Marine and
Coastal Access Act 2009,

and includes the places above those areas and the bed and subsoil of the sea
within those areas.

#### Assessments, energy savings and emissions reductions

##### Requirement for assessment of energy consumption

256

256.1

ESOS regulations may require the carrying out of assessments of—

256.1.a

a participant’s energy consumption;

256.1.b

the greenhouse gas emissions resulting from that consumption.

Such an assessment is referred to as an “ ESOS assessment ”.

256.2

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (1)  includes in
particular provision about—

256.2.a

the frequency of ESOS assessments;

256.2.b

the period or periods to which assessments must relate;

256.2.c

how assessments are to be carried out;

256.2.d

the information that must be provided or obtained for the purposes of an
assessment;

256.2.e

the matters that must be taken into account in an assessment;

256.2.f

record-keeping in relation to an assessment.

256.3

ESOS regulations may make provision requiring an ESOS assessment, or specified
parts of an ESOS assessment, to be carried out, approved or audited by a
person appointed by a participant (referred to as “ an assessor ”).

256.4

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (1)  may include provision enabling
or requiring an ESOS assessment to include recommendations relating to energy
savings or emissions reductions.

256.5

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (4)  includes in
particular provision about—

256.5.a

the matters about which recommendations may, must, or must not be made;

256.5.b

the matters that must be taken into account in making a recommendation;

256.5.c

the carrying out of a cost-benefit analysis before including a recommendation
in a report.

256.6

“ Cost-benefit analysis ”, in relation to a recommendation or requirement to
take action, means—

256.6.a

an estimate of the likely costs to a participant of acting in accordance with
the recommendation or requirement;

256.6.b

an estimate of the energy savings or emissions reductions likely to result
from such action;

256.6.c

an analysis of the costs referred to in  paragraph (a)  together with an
analysis of the savings or reductions referred to in  paragraph (b)  and of
any other benefits likely to arise.

256.7

ESOS regulations may make provision about the reporting of ESOS assessments,
including in particular provision—

256.7.a

about the production of written reports;

256.7.b

about the form and content of such reports;

256.7.c

about the dissemination of such reports within an undertaking and between
related undertakings.

256.8

ESOS regulations may make provision requiring a participant to notify a scheme
administrator of specified matters relating to the participant’s compliance
with requirements imposed by virtue of this section and may in particular
include provision—

256.8.a

about the procedure for giving such notice;

256.8.b

about the form and content of notices;

256.8.c

about the publication of certain information contained within a notice;

256.8.d

requiring a participant to justify its choice of assessor.

256.9

ESOS regulations may provide for any requirement imposed by virtue of
subsection (1) —

256.9.a

to be treated as having been complied with by a participant in specified
circumstances, or

256.9.b

not to apply to a participant in specified circumstances.

##### Assessors

257

257.1

ESOS regulations may confer functions on an assessor in relation to assessing,
monitoring and reporting on compliance with requirements imposed by the
regulations.

257.2

ESOS regulations may provide that a participant may only appoint as an
assessor a person of a specified description.

257.3

A description may be specified for the purposes of  subsection (2)  by
reference to any criteria, including by reference to—

257.3.a

a person’s competence, qualifications or experience;

257.3.b

a person’s inclusion in a designated list or register;

257.3.c

a person’s membership of a designated body;

257.3.d

a person’s participation in a designated accreditation scheme;

257.3.e

a person’s relationship to a participant.

257.4

For the purposes of this section, “ designated ” means designated by the
Secretary of State or a scheme administrator in accordance with ESOS
regulations.

257.5

A body may only be designated for the purposes of this section if the body is
willing to be so designated.

257.6

ESOS regulations may make provision about—

257.6.a

the giving of designations for the purposes of  subsection (4) ;

257.6.b

reviewing such designations;

257.6.c

circumstances in which such a designation may be removed;

257.6.d

maintaining and publishing a list of such designations.

257.7

ESOS regulations may make provision enabling a list or register of persons who
may, or who may not, be appointed as an assessor for the purposes of
subsection (2)  to be maintained by—

257.7.a

a designated body;

257.7.b

a scheme administrator;

257.7.c

the Secretary of State.

257.8

ESOS regulations may confer functions or impose requirements on a person
responsible for maintaining a designated list or register and may in
particular include provision—

257.8.a

about the process for including a person in a list or register;

257.8.b

about the details to be included in a list or register;

257.8.c

for ensuring those details remain up to date;

257.8.d

about the publication of a list or register;

257.8.e

for the purpose of ensuring that a person included in a list or register
continues to meet the criteria for appointment as an assessor;

257.8.f

for the purpose of ensuring the quality of ESOS assessments;

257.8.g

about the temporary or permanent removal of a person from a list or register
in specified circumstances.

257.9

The regulations may make provision authorising a scheme administrator to share
reports, notices or other information relating to an energy savings
opportunity scheme with a designated body for the purposes referred to in
subsection (8) (e)  or  (f) .

257.10

ESOS regulations may make provision—

257.10.a

enabling the Secretary of State or a scheme administrator to give a direction
relating to the maintenance of a list or register;

257.10.b

requiring a person responsible for maintaining a list or register to comply
with such a direction.

##### ESOS action plans

258

258.1

ESOS regulations may require participants to produce ESOS action plans.

258.2

An “ESOS action plan” is a written statement of—

258.2.a

any action a participant proposes to take for the purpose of achieving energy
savings or emissions reductions;

258.2.b

any energy savings or emissions reductions targets a participant intends to
achieve.

258.3

Where an ESOS action plan does not include any proposals for taking such
action or any such targets, provision made by virtue of  subsection (1)  may
require that a participant include an explanation in the plan.

258.4

ESOS regulations may make provision about the production of ESOS action plans,
including in particular provision about—

258.4.a

when a participant must produce a plan;

258.4.b

the period to which a plan must relate;

258.4.c

the form and content of a plan;

258.4.d

the matters that must be taken into account in producing a plan.

258.5

ESOS regulations may make provision about the publication of ESOS action
plans.

##### Action to achieve energy savings or emissions reductions

259

259.1

ESOS regulations may make provision—

259.1.a

imposing requirements (other than the requirements referred to in  paragraph
(b) ) on participants so as to encourage them to—

259.1.a.i

take specified action for the purpose of achieving energy savings or emissions
reductions, or

259.1.a.ii

achieve specified energy savings or emissions reductions, or

259.1.b

requiring participants to—

259.1.b.i

take specified action for the purpose of achieving energy savings or emissions
reductions, or

259.1.b.ii

achieve specified energy savings or emissions reductions.

259.2

The kinds of action that may be specified for the purposes of  subsection (1)
are—

259.2.a

taking action in accordance with a recommendation made in an ESOS assessment;

259.2.b

taking action in accordance with an ESOS action plan;

259.2.c

taking any other action of a specified kind;

259.2.d

taking action to achieve a target included in an ESOS action plan;

259.2.e

taking action to achieve any other specified outcome;

259.2.f

adopting processes, practices or systems of a specified kind;

259.2.g

conforming to specified standards.

259.3

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (1) (a)  includes in
particular—

259.3.a

provision requiring a participant to report—

259.3.a.i

on whether the participant has taken the specified action, or on the steps
taken by the participant towards doing so, or

259.3.a.ii

on whether the participant has achieved the specified energy savings or
emissions reductions, or on the progress made by the participant towards doing
so;

259.3.b

provision requiring a participant to provide an explanation for any of the
matters mentioned in  paragraph (a) .

259.4

Provision made by virtue of  subsection (1) (b)  may include a requirement for
a participant to report on action taken or energy savings or emissions
reductions achieved.

259.5

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (1)  may make provision—

259.5.a

requiring participants to produce and retain evidence;

259.5.b

about the verification of matters about which the participant has reported;

259.5.c

about the publication of reports.

259.6

ESOS regulations may—

259.6.a

specify the requirements imposed on a participant by virtue of  subsection (1)
by reference to a cost-benefit analysis;

259.6.b

specify circumstances in which a participant is required to take action;

259.6.c

impose a requirement to take a specified action on all participants in an
energy savings opportunity scheme, or on all participants of a specified
description.

#### Administration, enforcement and appeals

##### Scheme administration

260

260.1

ESOS regulations may appoint one or more public authorities to carry out
functions with respect to—

260.1.a

administering an energy savings opportunity scheme;

260.1.b

monitoring compliance with, and enforcing requirements imposed by, the
regulations.

260.2

A person appointed by virtue of subsection  (1)  is referred to as a “ scheme
administrator ”.

260.3

The regulations may make provision for a scheme administrator to authorise
another person to exercise specified functions of the scheme administrator.

260.4

Regulations made by virtue of subsection  (1)  may in particular include
provision about—

260.4.a

the obtaining of information by, and the provision of information to, a scheme
administrator;

260.4.b

the determination by a scheme administrator of information in default of its
being provided;

260.4.c

the auditing and verification of information;

260.4.d

the keeping, production and inspection of records;

260.4.e

the determination by a scheme administrator of whether an undertaking is a
participant in an energy savings opportunity scheme;

260.4.f

cooperation and information sharing between scheme administrators.

260.5

ESOS regulations may make provision imposing requirements on a participant
relating to the provision of such facilities and services, including transport
and accommodation, as may be necessary to facilitate the carrying out of any
of the scheme administrator’s functions.

260.6

ESOS regulations may confer functions on a scheme administrator in relation to
the publication of information relating to an energy savings opportunity
scheme or its participants.

260.7

ESOS regulations may make provision—

260.7.a

about the giving of guidance by a scheme administrator or the Secretary of
State in connection with the operation of an energy savings opportunity
scheme;

260.7.b

requiring specified persons to have regard to such guidance.

260.8

ESOS regulations may make provision requiring the payment by participants to
the scheme administrator of fees for or in connection with the carrying out by
the scheme administrator of the scheme administrator’s functions.

260.9

ESOS regulations may confer a power on a national authority to require a
scheme administrator to provide the authority with such information—

260.9.a

relating to an energy savings opportunity scheme, and

260.9.b

relevant to the exercise of the authority’s functions,

as the authority requests.

260.10

In this section—

      “ national authority ” means—         the Secretary of State;
the Welsh Ministers;           the Scottish Ministers;           the
Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland;                 “ public
authority ” means a person with functions of a public nature.

##### Enforcement, penalties and offences

261

261.1

ESOS regulations may authorise a scheme administrator—

261.1.a

to require the production of documents or the provision of information by any
person;

261.1.b

to question the officers of an undertaking;

261.1.c

to enter premises with a warrant;

261.1.d

to inspect premises and anything on premises and when doing so—

261.1.d.i

to take measurements, photographs, recordings or copies;

261.1.d.ii

to seize documents or records;

261.1.d.iii

to require any person at the premises to provide facilities and assistance to
the extent that is within that person’s control;

261.1.e

to issue a notice requiring a participant to take steps specified in the
notice for the purpose of—

261.1.e.i

demonstrating compliance with requirements imposed by or under ESOS
regulations, or

261.1.e.ii

remedying a failure to comply with such requirements.

261.2

ESOS regulations may make provision requiring a participant to give notice to
a scheme administrator where the participant is unlikely to comply, or has
failed to comply, with a requirement imposed by or under the regulations.

261.3

ESOS regulations may provide that a person is liable to one or more penalties
in respect of—

261.3.a

a failure to comply with a requirement imposed on the person by or under the
regulations;

261.3.b

making a false or misleading statement in connection with an energy savings
opportunity scheme.

261.4

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (3)  includes
provision—

261.4.a

for the publication of specified information relating to the failure to
comply;

261.4.b

authorising a scheme administrator to impose a financial penalty.

261.5

Where by virtue of  subsection (3)  ESOS regulations provide for the
imposition of a financial penalty, the regulations—

261.5.a

must provide for the penalty to be paid to the scheme administrator or such
other person as the regulations may specify;

261.5.b

may specify the amount of the penalty or provide for the amount to be
determined by the scheme administrator in accordance with the regulations;

261.5.c

may provide for the payment of a further penalty (of an amount specified by or
determined in accordance with the regulations) for each day on which the
failure to comply is not remedied;

261.5.d

may specify how the penalty may be recovered.

261.6

ESOS regulations may create offences relating to energy savings opportunity
schemes.

261.7

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (6)  may provide for an offence
created by the regulations to be triable—

261.7.a

only summarily, or

261.7.b

either summarily or on indictment.

261.8

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (6)  may provide for an offence
created by the regulations to be punishable with a fine.

261.9

Regulations may—

261.9.a

provide for defences against offences;

261.9.b

make provision about matters of procedure and evidence in proceedings relating
to offences;

261.9.c

include provision about the liability of a director, manager, secretary or
other officer of a body corporate, or a partner of a Scottish partnership, or
of a person purporting to act in such a capacity, where an offence under the
regulations—

261.9.c.i

is committed with the consent or connivance of such a person, or

261.9.c.ii

is attributable to neglect on the part of such a person.

261.10

References in this section to a scheme administrator include references to a
person authorised by a scheme administrator in accordance with provision in
ESOS regulations made by virtue of  section 260 (3) .

##### Appeals

262

262.1

ESOS regulations that provide for the imposition of a financial penalty must
also provide for a right of appeal to a court or tribunal against the
imposition of the penalty.

262.2

ESOS regulations may confer rights of appeal against—

262.2.a

decisions made in relation to an energy savings opportunity scheme, and

262.2.b

penalties imposed (other than financial penalties) or enforcement action taken
for failure to comply with the requirements of the regulations.

262.3

Regulations that make provision by virtue of subsection  (2)  must specify the
court, tribunal or person who is to hear and determine an appeal made by
virtue of that subsection.

262.4

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (1)  or  (2)
includes, in particular, provision about—

262.4.a

the grounds on which an appeal may be made;

262.4.b

the procedure for making an appeal (including any fee which may be payable);

262.4.c

suspending the effect of any decision, penalty or enforcement action pending
determination of the appeal;

262.4.d

the powers of the court, tribunal or person to which an appeal is made.

#### Procedure etc for regulations

##### ESOS regulations: procedure etc

263

263.1

Before making ESOS regulations, the Secretary of State must consult such
persons likely to be affected by the regulations as the Secretary of State
considers appropriate.

263.2

Subsection  (1)  may be satisfied by consultation before this section comes
into force (as well as by consultation after that time).

263.3

Before making ESOS regulations that contain provision within devolved
competence, the Secretary of State must give notice—

263.3.a

stating that the Secretary of State proposes to make ESOS regulations,

263.3.b

setting out or describing the provisions of the regulations that contain
provision within devolved competence, and

263.3.c

specifying the period (of not less than 28 days from the date on which the
notice is given) within which representations may be made with respect to
those provisions,

and must consider any representations duly made and not withdrawn.

263.4

A notice under subsection  (3)  must be given to each relevant devolved
authority, that is to say—

263.4.a

the Scottish Ministers, so far as the regulations contain provision within
Scottish devolved competence;

263.4.b

the Welsh Ministers, so far as the regulations contain provision within Welsh
devolved competence;

263.4.c

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, so far as the regulations
contain provision within Northern Ireland devolved competence.

263.5

The Secretary of State need not wait until the end of the period specified
under  subsection (3) (c)  before making ESOS regulations if, before the end
of that period, each relevant devolved authority to which the notice was given
has confirmed that it has made any representations it intends to make with
respect to the provisions referred to in subsection  (3) (b) .

263.6

The Secretary of State must, if requested to do so by a relevant devolved
authority, give the authority a statement setting out whether and how
representations made by the authority with respect to the provisions referred
to in subsection  (3) (b)  have been taken into account in the regulations.

263.7

References in subsection  (3)  to provision within devolved competence are to
provision that is within Scottish, Welsh or Northern Ireland devolved
competence.

263.8

Where the Secretary of State makes ESOS regulations that have effect in
relation to the compliance period beginning on 6 December 2019 (see regulation
4 of the Energy Savings Opportunity Schemes Regulations 2014 ( S.I. 2014/1643
))—

263.8.a

subsections  (3)  to  (7)  do not apply, and

263.8.b

before making the regulations, the Secretary of State must consult—

263.8.b.i

the Scottish Ministers, so far as the regulations contain provision within
Scottish devolved competence,

263.8.b.ii

the Welsh Ministers, so far as the regulations contain provision within Welsh
devolved competence, and

263.8.b.iii

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, so far as the regulations
contain provision within Northern Ireland devolved competence,

and  subsection (2)  applies to consultation under paragraph  (b)  as it
applies to consultation under  subsection (1) .

263.9

ESOS regulations may create exceptions to any requirement imposed by the
regulations.

263.10

ESOS regulations may—

263.10.a

make provision about application to the Crown;

263.10.b

to the extent that they bind the Crown, restrict or modify the application of
the regulations.

263.11

ESOS regulations containing any of the following (with or without other
provision) are subject to the affirmative procedure—

263.11.a

provision extending the descriptions of undertaking to which the regulations
apply;

263.11.b

provision made by virtue of  section 259 (1) (b)  of a kind not previously
provided for in ESOS regulations;

263.11.c

provision conferring on a scheme administrator enforcement powers of a kind
not previously provided for in ESOS regulations;

263.11.d

provision creating penalties;

263.11.e

provision increasing the amount of financial penalties by more than is
necessary to reflect changes in the value of money;

263.11.f

provision creating an offence or increasing the fine for an existing offence;

263.11.g

provision for the payment of a new fee.

263.12

Any other ESOS regulations are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Directions and financial assistance

##### Directions to scheme administrators

264

264.1

The Secretary of State may give directions to a scheme administrator.

264.2

The power to give directions under this section includes a power to vary or
revoke the directions.

264.3

A scheme administrator must comply with any direction given to it under this
section.

##### Financial assistance to scheme administrators and participants

265

265.1

The Secretary of State may give, or arrange for the giving of, financial
assistance to—

265.1.a

scheme administrators;

265.1.b

participants.

265.2

“ Financial assistance ” means grants, loans, guarantees or indemnities, or
any other kind of financial assistance.

265.3

Financial assistance under this section may be given subject to such
conditions as may be determined by, or in accordance with arrangements made
by, the Secretary of State.

#### Interpretation

##### Interpretation of 

266

266.1

In this Part—

      “ assessor ” has the meaning given by  section 256 (3) ;           “
cost benefit analysis ” has the meaning given by  section 256 (6) ;
“ emissions reduction ” has the meaning given by  section 254 (5) ;
“ energy consumption ” has the meaning given by ESOS regulations;           “
energy saving ” has the meaning given by  section 254 (4) ;           “ energy
savings opportunity scheme ” has the meaning given by  section 254 (2) ;
“ ESOS action plan ” has the meaning given by  section 258 (2) ;           “
ESOS assessment ” has the meaning given by  section 256 (1) ;           “ ESOS
regulations ” means regulations made under  section 254 (1) ;           “
greenhouse gas ” has the meaning given by section 92 of the Climate Change Act
2008;           “ participant ” means an undertaking to which an energy
savings opportunity scheme applies;           “ related undertaking ”, in
relation to a participant, means a fellow subsidiary undertaking of, or a
group undertaking in relation to, that participant;           “ scheme
administrator ” has the meaning given by  section 260 (2) ;           “
specified ” means specified in ESOS regulations;           “ undertaking ”,
“group undertaking” and “fellow subsidiary undertaking” have the meanings
given by section 1161 of the Companies Act 2006.

266.2

For the purposes of this Part, provision—

266.2.a

is within Welsh devolved competence if it would be within the legislative
competence of Senedd Cymru if it were contained in an Act of the Senedd
(ignoring any requirement for the consent of a Minister of the Crown imposed
under Schedule 7B to the Government of Wales Act 2006);

266.2.b

is within Scottish devolved competence if it would be within the legislative
competence of the Scottish Parliament if it were contained in an Act of that
Parliament;

266.2.c

is within Northern Ireland devolved competence if it—

266.2.c.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
it were contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

266.2.c.ii

would not, if it were contained in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State under
section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998.

### Core fuel sector resilience

#### Introduction

##### General objective

267

The functions of the Secretary of State under this Part must be exercised with
a view to—

267.a

ensuring that economic activity in the United Kingdom is not adversely
affected by disruptions to core fuel sector activities, and

267.b

reducing the risk of emergencies affecting fuel supplies.

##### “Core fuel sector activity” and other key concepts

268

268.1

In this Part “ core fuel sector activity ” means an activity of a kind
mentioned in  subsection (2) , so far as the activity—

268.1.a

is carried on in the United Kingdom in the course of a business, and

268.1.b

contributes (directly or indirectly) to the supply of core fuels to consumers
in the United Kingdom or persons carrying on business in the United Kingdom.

268.2

The kinds of activity are—

268.2.a

storing oil or renewable transport fuel;

268.2.b

handling oil or renewable transport fuel;

268.2.c

the carriage of oil or renewable transport fuel by sea or inland water;

268.2.d

transporting oil or renewable transport fuel by road or rail;

268.2.e

conveying oil or renewable transport fuel by pipes;

268.2.f

processing or producing oil or renewable transport fuel (whether by refining,
blending or otherwise).

268.3

In  subsection (2)  the references to “oil” do not include crude oil which has
not yet entered any refinery or terminal in the United Kingdom.

268.4

In this Part “ core fuels ” means—

268.4.a

crude oil based fuels, and

268.4.b

renewable transport fuels.

268.5

In this Part “ core fuel sector resilience ” means the capability of core fuel
sector participants to—

268.5.a

manage the risk of,

268.5.b

reduce the potential adverse impact of, and

268.5.c

facilitate recovery from,

disruptions to core fuel sector activities.

268.6

In this Part “ core fuel sector participant ” means—

268.6.a

a person carrying on core fuel sector activities;

268.6.b

a  Part 12  facility owner.

268.7

For the purposes of this Part there is “continuity of supply of core fuels”
where the supply of core fuels to consumers in all areas of the United
Kingdom, and persons carrying on business in all areas of the United Kingdom—

268.7.a

is reliable and continuous, and

268.7.b

is maintained at normal levels.

268.8

In  subsection (7)  “ normal levels ” means levels that—

268.8.a

are not substantially below average monthly levels of supply in the United
Kingdom (taking account of regional variations), and

268.8.b

are consistent with a reasonable balance between supply and demand.

268.9

For the purposes of  subsection (8)  “average monthly levels” are to be
calculated by reference to levels of supply in the five years preceding the
calculation.

268.10

In this Part “relevant activities or assets”—

268.10.a

in relation to a person carrying on core fuel sector activities, means the
person’s core fuel sector activities (and includes any land or assets under
the person’s control that are associated with those activities);

268.10.b

in relation to a  Part 12  facility owner, means the owned facility.

268.11

In this Part—

268.11.a

“ Part 12  facility owner” means the owner of a pipeline, terminal, or other
facility or infrastructure which is used, or any part of which is used, for
the purposes of core fuel sector activities;

268.11.b

in relation to a  Part 12  facility owner, “ the owned facility ” means the
facility or infrastructure mentioned in  paragraph (a) .

268.12

In  subsection (11)  “ owner ”, in relation to any facility or infrastructure,
means—

268.12.a

a person in whom the facility or infrastructure is vested, or

268.12.b

a lessee of the facility or infrastructure.

268.13

In this Part references to a “person carrying on core fuel sector activities”
include any person carrying on such activities (whether or not as the owner of
the oil or renewable transport fuel).

#### Powers for resilience purposes

##### Directions

###### Directions to particular core fuel sector participants

269

269.1

The Secretary of State may, for the purpose of maintaining or improving core
fuel sector resilience, direct a person to whom this section applies to do
anything in relation to the person’s relevant activities or assets (for
example, to acquire and install specific equipment, or carry out specific
works, at the person’s own expense).

269.2

The Secretary of State may not give a direction under  subsection (1)  unless
the Secretary of State considers that the persons to whom this section applies
have failed to make sufficient progress with the steps that the Secretary of
State considers necessary for maintaining or improving core fuel sector
resilience.

269.3

Where there is disruption to, or a failure of, continuity of supply of core
fuels, the Secretary of State may direct a person to whom this section applies
to do anything in relation to the person’s relevant activities or assets which
the Secretary of State considers necessary or expedient for the purpose of—

269.3.a

restoring continuity of supply of core fuels, or

269.3.b

counteracting the disruption or failure, or its potential adverse impact.

269.4

If the Secretary of State considers that there is a significant risk of
disruption to, or a failure of, continuity of supply of core fuels, the
Secretary of State may direct a person to whom this section applies to do
anything in relation to the person’s relevant activities or assets which the
Secretary of State considers necessary or expedient for the purpose of—

269.4.a

reducing the risk, or

269.4.b

reducing the potential adverse impact of the disruption or failure.

269.5

The Secretary of State may not make a direction under subsection  (1) ,  (3)
or  (4)  unless the Secretary of State considers—

269.5.a

that, the corresponding cases (if any) are not sufficiently numerous to
justify making regulations under  section 272 , or

269.5.b

that, by reason of urgency, it is not practicable to achieve the aims of the
direction by regulations under  section 272 .

269.6

In  subsection (5) (a)  the reference to “corresponding cases” is to persons
to whom this section applies in relation to whom the Secretary of State
considers it would be appropriate to take action corresponding to the
direction.

269.7

This section applies to the following persons—

269.7.a

a person carrying on core fuel sector activities in the course of a business
which has capacity in excess of 500,000 tonnes;

269.7.b

a  Part 12  facility owner if the owned facility has capacity in excess of
20,000 tonnes.

269.8

For the purposes of this Part—

269.8.a

a business “has capacity in excess of” a specified number of tonnes if in the
most recently ended calendar year core fuel sector activities were carried on
in that business in relation to more than that number of tonnes of core fuel;

269.8.b

a facility or infrastructure “has capacity in excess of” a specified number of
tonnes if in the most recently ended calendar year it was used for the
purposes of core fuel sector activities in relation to more than that number
of tonnes of core fuels.

###### Procedure for giving directions

270

270.1

Before giving a person a direction under  section 269  the Secretary of State
must give the person a written notice accompanied by a draft of the proposed
direction.

270.2

The notice under  subsection (1)  must—

270.2.a

state that the Secretary of State proposes to give the person a direction in
the form of the accompanying draft;

270.2.b

explain why the Secretary of State proposes to give the direction;

270.2.c

state when it is intended that the direction will come into effect;

270.2.d

specify a period within which the person may make written representations with
respect to the proposal.

270.3

The period specified under  subsection (2) (d)  must begin with the date on
which the notice is given to the person and must be not less than 14 days.

270.4

Before giving a direction under  section 269 , the Secretary of State must
consult—

270.4.a

so far as the direction relates to relevant activities or assets in England,
Scotland or Wales, the Health and Safety Executive;

270.4.b

so far as the direction relates to relevant activities or assets in England,
the Environment Agency;

270.4.c

so far as the direction relates to relevant activities or assets in Scotland,
the Scottish Environment Protection Agency;

270.4.d

so far as the direction relates to relevant activities or assets in Wales, the
Natural Resources Body for Wales;

270.4.e

so far as the direction relates to relevant activities or assets in Northern
Ireland—

270.4.e.i

the Health and Safety Executive for Northern Ireland, and

270.4.e.ii

the Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs in Northern
Ireland;

270.4.f

any other persons the Secretary of State thinks appropriate.

270.5

The Secretary of State must decide whether to give the person the proposed
direction (with or without modifications), after considering any
representations made by—

270.5.a

the person mentioned in  subsection (1) , and

270.5.b

any person consulted in accordance with  subsection (4) .

270.6

The Secretary of State must give written notice of that decision to the person
mentioned in  subsection (1) .

270.7

If the decision is to give the proposed direction, the notice must—

270.7.a

contain the direction, and

270.7.b

state the time when the direction is to take effect.

270.8

Consultation under  subsection (4)  with the Environment Agency, the Scottish
Environment Protection Agency or the Natural Resources Body for Wales must be
with reference to that body’s functions under the Control of Major Accident
Hazards Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/483 ).

270.9

Consultation under  subsection (4)  with the Department of Agriculture,
Environment and Rural Affairs in Northern Ireland must be with reference to
the department’s functions under the Control of Major Accident Hazards
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 ( S.R. (N.I.) 2015 No. 325 ).

###### Offence of failure to comply with a direction

271

Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a direction
given to the person under  section 269  commits an offence and is liable—

271.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

271.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

271.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

271.d

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years
or a fine (or both).

##### Corresponding powers to make regulations

###### Corresponding powers to make regulations

272

272.1

The Secretary of State may, for the purpose of maintaining or improving core
fuel sector resilience, by regulations require persons of a class or
description specified in the regulations to do anything in relation to their
relevant activities or assets.

272.2

The Secretary of State may not make any provision by regulations under
subsection (1)  unless the Secretary of State considers that the persons
mentioned in paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of  subsection (5)  have failed to
make sufficient progress with the steps that the Secretary of State considers
necessary for maintaining or improving core fuel sector resilience.

272.3

Where there is disruption to, or a failure of, continuity of supply of core
fuels, the Secretary of State may by regulations require persons of a class or
description specified in the regulations to do anything in relation to their
relevant activities or assets which the Secretary of State considers necessary
or expedient for the purpose of—

272.3.a

restoring continuity of supply of core fuels, or

272.3.b

counteracting the disruption or failure, or its potential adverse impact.

272.4

If the Secretary of State considers that there is a significant risk of
disruption to, or a failure of, continuity of supply of core fuels, the
Secretary of State may by regulations require persons of a class or
description specified in the regulations to do anything in relation to their
relevant activities or assets which the Secretary of State considers necessary
or expedient for the purpose of—

272.4.a

reducing the risk, or

272.4.b

reducing the potential adverse impact of the disruption or failure.

272.5

A class or description specified for the purposes of subsection  (1) ,  (3)
or  (4)  may not include persons other than—

272.5.a

persons carrying on core fuel sector activities in the course of a business
which has capacity in excess of 1,000 tonnes, or

272.5.b

Part 12  facility owners whose owned facility has capacity in excess of 1,000
tonnes.

272.6

Regulations under this section may provide that any person who, without
reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a requirement imposed by the
regulations commits an offence.

272.7

Before making regulations under this section the Secretary of State must
consult—

272.7.a

so far as the regulations relate to relevant activities or assets in England,
Scotland or Wales, the Health and Safety Executive;

272.7.b

so far as the regulations relate to relevant activities or assets in England,
the Environment Agency;

272.7.c

so far as the regulations relate to relevant assets or activities in Scotland,
the Scottish Environment Protection Agency;

272.7.d

so far as the regulations relate to relevant activities or assets in Wales,
the Natural Resources Body for Wales;

272.7.e

so far as the regulations relate to relevant activities or assets in Northern
Ireland—

272.7.e.i

the Health and Safety Executive for Northern Ireland, and

272.7.e.ii

the Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs in Northern
Ireland;

272.7.f

any other persons the Secretary of State thinks appropriate.

272.8

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

272.9

Consultation under  subsection (7)  with the Environment Agency, the Scottish
Environment Protection Agency or the Natural Resources Body for Wales must be
with reference to that body’s functions under the Control of Major Accident
Hazards Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/483 ).

272.10

Consultation under  subsection (7)  with the Department of Agriculture,
Environment and Rural Affairs in Northern Ireland must be with reference to
the department’s functions under the Control of Major Accident Hazards
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 ( S.R. (N.I.) 2015 No. 325 ).

##### Information

###### Power to require information

273

273.1

The Secretary of State may by notice in writing require any of the following
to provide the Secretary of State with information relating to their relevant
activities or assets—

273.1.a

a person carrying on core fuel sector activities in the course of a business
which has capacity in excess of 1,000 tonnes;

273.1.b

a  Part 12  facility owner whose owned facility has capacity in excess of
1,000 tonnes.

273.2

The Secretary of State may by notice in writing require a relevant wetstock
manager to provide the Secretary of State with information relating to the
relevant activities or assets of a person carrying on core fuel sector
activities to whom the relevant wetstock manager provides stock management
services.

273.3

In this Part “ relevant wetstock manager ” means a person who provides to
persons who make retail supplies of core fuels in the United Kingdom stock
management services in respect of such supplies.

273.4

The Secretary of State may only require information under this section for the
purpose of maintaining or improving core fuel sector resilience.

273.5

A notice under  subsection (1)  or  (2)  may—

273.5.a

specify the manner in which information is to be provided;

273.5.b

specify time limits for providing information;

273.5.c

require information to be provided at specified intervals.

273.6

Before giving a person a notice under  subsection (1)  or  (2)  the Secretary
of State must—

273.6.a

notify the person in writing of the proposed contents of the notice and of the
period within which the person may make written representations with respect
to the proposed requirement, and

273.6.b

consider any representations made by the person.

273.7

The period notified under  subsection (6) (a)  must begin on the date on which
the notification is given and (subject to  subsection (8) ) must be not less
than 14 days.

273.8

The Secretary of State may notify a period under  subsection (6) (a)  that is
less than 14 days but not less than 7 days if the Secretary of State considers
that it is it is necessary to do so by reason of urgency.

###### Duty to report incidents

274

274.1

If at any time a person—

274.1.a

knows, or has reason to suspect, that a notifiable incident is occurring or
has occurred, and

274.1.b

meets the condition in  paragraph (a) ,  (b)  or  (c)  of  subsection (2) ,

that person must notify the Secretary of State of the incident as soon as
possible.

274.2

The conditions mentioned in  subsection (1) (b)  are that—

274.2.a

the person is carrying on core fuel sector activities in the course of a
business which has capacity in excess of 500,000 tonnes;

274.2.b

the person is a  Part 12  facility owner in whose case the owned facility has
capacity in excess of 500,000 tonnes;

274.2.c

the person is of a class or description specified in regulations made by the
Secretary of State under this subsection.

274.3

In this section “ notifiable incident ”, in relation to a person, means an
incident which affects the person’s relevant activities or assets in such a
way as to create a significant risk of, or cause—

274.3.a

disruption to, or

274.3.b

a failure of,

the continuity of supply of core fuels.

274.4

The Secretary of State may by notice in writing require a person who has given
a notice under  subsection (1)  to provide further information about the
incident.

274.5

Before giving a person a notice under  subsection (4)  the Secretary of State
must—

274.5.a

notify the person in writing of—

274.5.a.i

the proposed contents of the notice, and

274.5.a.ii

the period within which the person may make written representations with
respect to the proposal, and

274.5.b

consider any representations made by the person.

274.6

The period notified under  subsection (5) (a) (ii)  must begin on the date on
which the notification is given and (subject to  subsection (7) ) must be not
less than 14 days.

274.7

The Secretary of State may notify a period under  subsection (5) (a) (ii)
that is less than 14 days but not less than 7 days if the Secretary of State
considers that it is necessary to do so by reason of urgency.

274.8

A notice under  subsection (4)  may specify—

274.8.a

the manner in which information is to be provided, and

274.8.b

time limits for providing information.

274.9

Where a notification under  subsection (1)  is not made in writing, it must be
confirmed in writing as soon as possible.

274.10

Regulations under  subsection (2) (c)  may specify the meaning that “relevant
activities or assets” is to have in  subsection (3)  in relation to persons of
a class or description of persons specified in the regulations.

274.11

Regulations under  subsection (2) (c)  are subject to the affirmative
procedure.

###### Contravention of requirement under 

275

275.1

A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a requirement
imposed by a notice under  section 273 (1)  or  (2)  or  274 (4)  commits an
offence.

275.2

A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with  section 274 (1)
commits an offence.

275.3

A person who commits an offence under this section is liable—

275.3.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

275.3.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

275.3.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

275.3.d

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years
or a fine (or both).

###### Provision of information at specified intervals

276

276.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations require any of the following to
provide to the Secretary of State, at intervals specified in the regulations,
information relating to their relevant activities or assets—

276.1.a

a person carrying on core fuel sector activities in the course of a business
which has capacity in excess of 1,000 tonnes;

276.1.b

a  Part 12  facility owner whose owned facility has capacity in excess of
1,000 tonnes.

276.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations require a relevant wetstock manager
to provide to the Secretary of State, at intervals specified in the
regulations, information relating to the relevant activities or assets of a
person carrying on core fuel sector activities to whom the relevant wetstock
manager provides stock management services.

276.3

The power to make regulations under this section may only be exercised for the
purpose of maintaining or improving core fuel sector resilience.

276.4

The regulations may make provision about—

276.4.a

the information to be provided;

276.4.b

the manner in which information is to be provided;

276.4.c

time limits for providing information.

276.5

Regulations under this section may provide that any person who, without
reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a requirement imposed by the
regulations commits an offence.

276.6

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

###### Disclosure of information held by the Secretary of State

277

277.1

Subsection  (2)  applies to information held by the Secretary of State which
was provided to the Secretary of State under  section 273 ,  274  or  276 .

277.2

The information may be disclosed—

277.2.a

to any government department or devolved authority for the purpose of—

277.2.a.i

maintaining or improving core fuel sector resilience, or

277.2.a.ii

restoring, or counteracting a disruption to, or failure of, continuity of
supply of core fuels (or counteracting the potential adverse impact of any
such disruption or failure), or

277.2.b

if the disclosure is necessary for the purpose of criminal proceedings.

277.3

Nothing in this section authorises the making of a disclosure which—

277.3.a

contravenes the data protection legislation (as defined in section 3 of the
Data Protection Act 2018), or

277.3.b

is prohibited by any of Parts 1 to 7 of, or Chapter 1 of Part 9 of, the
Investigatory Powers Act 2016.

In determining whether a disclosure would fall within paragraph  (a)  or  (b)
, the powers conferred by this section are to be taken into account.

277.4

In subsection  (2)  “ devolved authority ” means—

277.4.a

the Welsh Ministers,

277.4.b

the Scottish Ministers, or

277.4.c

a Northern Ireland department.

###### Disclosure of information by HMRC

278

278.1

His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (or anyone acting on their behalf) may
disclose information to the Secretary of State for the purpose of facilitating
the exercise by the Secretary of State of functions relating to core fuel
sector resilience.

278.2

A person who receives information as a result of this section may not—

278.2.a

use the information for a purpose other than that mentioned in  subsection (1)
, or

278.2.b

further disclose the information,

except with the consent of the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and
Customs (which may be general or specific).

278.3

If a person discloses information in contravention of  subsection (2) (b)
which relates to a person whose identity—

278.3.a

is specified in the disclosure, or

278.3.b

can be deduced from it,

section 19 of the Commissioners for Revenue and Customs Act 2005 (offence of
wrongful disclosure) applies in relation to that disclosure as it applies in
relation to a disclosure of information in contravention of section 20(9) of
that Act.

278.4

This section does not limit the circumstances in which information may be
disclosed under section 18(2) of the Commissioners for Revenue and Customs Act
2005 or under any other enactment or rule of law.

278.5

Nothing in this section authorises the making of a disclosure which—

278.5.a

contravenes the data protection legislation (as defined in section 3 of the
Data Protection Act 2018), or

278.5.b

is prohibited by any of Parts 1 to 7 of, or Chapter 1 of Part 9 of, the
Investigatory Powers Act 2016.

In determining whether a disclosure would fall within paragraph  (a)  or  (b)
, the powers conferred by this section are to be taken into account.

##### Appeal against notice or direction

###### Appeal against notice or direction

279

279.1

A person to whom a direction under  section 269  or a notice under  section
273  or  274 (4)  is given may appeal to the First-tier Tribunal against the
direction or notice on the ground that the decision to give it—

279.1.a

is based on an error of fact,

279.1.b

is wrong in law, or

279.1.c

is unfair or unreasonable.

279.2

On an appeal under this section the Tribunal may—

279.2.a

confirm or cancel the direction or notice, or

279.2.b

refer the matter back to the Secretary of State for reconsideration with such
directions (if any) as the Tribunal considers appropriate.

#### Enforcement

##### Offences

###### False statements etc

280

280.1

It is an offence for a person to make a statement which the person knows is
false or materially misleading—

280.1.a

in responding to a requirement imposed by the Secretary of State—

280.1.a.i

under  section 273  (power to require information),

280.1.a.ii

under  section 274 (4)  (duty to report incidents), or

280.1.a.iii

under regulations under  section 276  (provision of information at specified
intervals), or

280.1.b

in making any other statement to the Secretary of State in connection with any
of the Secretary of State’s functions under this Part.

280.2

A person who commits an offence under this section is liable—

280.2.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

280.2.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

280.2.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

280.2.d

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years
or a fine (or both).

###### Offences under regulations

281

281.1

This section applies to regulations under—

281.1.a

section 272  (corresponding powers to make regulations);

281.1.b

section 276  (provision of information at specified intervals).

281.2

Regulations to which this section applies may provide for an offence under the
regulations to be triable—

281.2.a

only summarily, or

281.2.b

either summarily or on indictment.

281.3

Regulations to which this section applies may provide for an offence under the
regulations that is triable either way to be punishable—

281.3.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales with imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the period specified or a fine (or both);

281.3.b

on summary conviction in Scotland or Northern Ireland with imprisonment for a
term not exceeding the period specified or a fine not exceeding the statutory
maximum (or both);

281.3.c

on conviction on indictment, with imprisonment for a term not exceeding the
period specified, which may not exceed two years, or a fine (or both).

281.4

A period specified under  subsection (3) (a)  may not exceed the general limit
in a magistrates’ court.

281.5

A period specified under  subsection (3) (b)  may not exceed—

281.5.a

in relation to Scotland, 12 months;

281.5.b

in relation to Northern Ireland, 6 months.

281.6

Regulations to which this section applies may provide for a summary offence
under the regulations to be punishable—

281.6.a

with imprisonment for a term not exceeding the period specified,

281.6.b

with—

281.6.b.i

in England and Wales, a fine (or a fine not exceeding an amount specified,
which must not exceed level 4 on the standard scale), or

281.6.b.ii

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, a fine not exceeding the amount specified,
which must not exceed level 5 on the standard scale, or

281.6.c

with both.

281.7

A period specified under subsection (6)(a) may not exceed—

281.7.a

in relation to England and Wales—

281.7.a.i

6 months, in relation to offences committed before the date on which section
281(5) of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 comes into force, or

281.7.a.ii

51 weeks, in relation to offences committed on or after that date,

281.7.b

in relation to Scotland, 12 months,

281.7.c

in relation to Northern Ireland, 6 months.

281.8

In this section “ specified ” means specified in the regulations.

###### Proceedings for offences

282

Proceedings for an offence under this Part (including an offence created by
regulations under  section 272  or  276 )—

282.a

may not be brought in England and Wales except by or with the consent of the
Secretary of State or the Director of Public Prosecutions;

282.b

may not be brought in Northern Ireland except by or with the consent of the
Secretary of State or the Director of Public Prosecutions for Northern
Ireland.

###### Liability of officers of entities

283

283.1

Where an offence under this Part committed by a body corporate is proved—

283.1.a

to have been committed with the consent or connivance of an officer of the
body corporate, or

283.1.b

to be attributable to neglect on the part of an officer of the body corporate,

that officer (as well as the body corporate) commits the offence and is liable
to be proceeded against and dealt with accordingly.

283.2

In subsection (1) “ officer ”, in relation to a body corporate, means—

283.2.a

any director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body
corporate, or

283.2.b

any person purporting to act in any such capacity.

283.3

In subsection (2) “ director ”, in relation to a body corporate whose affairs
are managed by its members, means a member of the body corporate.

283.4

Where an offence under this Part is committed by a Scottish partnership and is
proved to have been committed with the consent or connivance of a partner, or
to be attributable to any neglect on the part of a partner, that partner (as
well as the partnership) commits the offence and is liable to be proceeded
against and dealt with accordingly.

##### Enforcement undertakings

###### Enforcement undertakings

284

284.1

Subsection  (2)  applies if—

284.1.a

the Secretary of State has reasonable grounds to suspect that a person has
committed an offence falling within  subsection (5) ,

284.1.b

the person offers to the Secretary of State an enforcement undertaking in
respect of the relevant act or omission, and

284.1.c

the Secretary of State accepts that undertaking.

284.2

Unless the person has failed to comply with the undertaking (or any part of
it) the person may not at any time be convicted of that offence in respect of
the relevant act or omission.

284.3

In this Part “ enforcement undertaking ” means an undertaking to take, within
any period specified in the undertaking, action—

284.3.a

for any of the purposes in  subsection (4) , or

284.3.b

of a description specified in regulations made by the Secretary of State.

284.4

The purposes mentioned in  subsection (3)  are—

284.4.a

to secure that the offence does not continue or recur,

284.4.b

to secure that the position is, so far as possible, restored to what it would
have been if the offence had not been committed, or

284.4.c

to benefit any person affected by the offence.

284.5

The following offences fall within this subsection—

284.5.a

an offence under—

284.5.a.i

section 271  (failure to comply with a direction),

284.5.a.ii

section 275  (contravention of requirement under  section 273  or  274 ), or

284.5.a.iii

section 280  (false statements etc);

284.5.b

an offence, other than an offence triable only summarily, that is created by
regulations under—

284.5.b.i

section 272  (corresponding powers to make regulations), or

284.5.b.ii

section 276  (provision of information at regular intervals).

284.6

The reference in  subsection (4) (c)  to action to “ benefit any person
affected by the offence ” includes action by way of the payment of a sum of
money.

284.7

Where a person from whom the Secretary of State has accepted an enforcement
undertaking has failed to comply fully with the undertaking but has complied
with part of it, the partial compliance must be taken into account in any
decision whether to institute any criminal proceedings in respect of the
offence in question.

284.8

In this section “ relevant act or omission ” means an act or omission of the
person to which the grounds mentioned in  subsection (1) (a)  relate.

284.9

Regulations under  subsection (3) (b)  are subject to the affirmative
procedure.

284.10

Schedule 20  contains further provision about enforcement undertakings,
including provision about—

284.10.a

procedure;

284.10.b

compliance certificates;

284.10.c

appeals.

##### Guidance

###### Guidance: criminal and civil sanctions

285

285.1

The Secretary of State must issue guidance as to—

285.1.a

the sanctions (including criminal sanctions) to which a person who commits an
offence under this Part may be liable,

285.1.b

the action which the Secretary of State may take to enforce offences under
this Part, whether by virtue of  section 284  and  Schedule 20  or otherwise,
and

285.1.c

the circumstances in which the Secretary of State is likely to take any such
action.

285.2

The Secretary of State—

285.2.a

must issue guidance about how the Secretary of State intends to exercise the
Secretary of State’s functions under  section 284  and  Schedule 20 ;

285.2.b

must have regard to the guidance in exercising the Secretary of State’s
functions under those provisions.

285.3

Before issuing guidance under this section, the Secretary of State must—

285.3.a

prepare a draft of the proposed guidance;

285.3.b

consult such persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate;

285.3.c

comply with the requirements of  section 286 .

285.4

The Secretary of State may from time to time revise guidance issued under this
section and issue revised guidance.

285.5

Subsection  (3)  applies to revised guidance as it applies to the original
guidance.

285.6

The Secretary of State must arrange for the publication of guidance (or
revised guidance) issued under this section.

###### Guidance: Parliamentary scrutiny

286

286.1

Before issuing guidance under  section 285 , the Secretary of State must lay a
draft of the proposed guidance before both Houses of Parliament.

286.2

The Secretary of State must not issue the guidance until after the period of
40 days beginning with—

286.2.a

the day on which the draft is laid before both Houses of Parliament, or

286.2.b

if the draft is laid before the House of Lords on one day and the House of
Commons on another, the later of those two days.

286.3

If before the end of that period either House resolves that the guidance
should not be issued, the Secretary of State may not issue it.

286.4

In reckoning any period of 40 days for the purposes of  subsection (2) , no
account is to be taken of any time during which—

286.4.a

Parliament is dissolved or prorogued, or

286.4.b

both Houses are adjourned for more than four days.

#### General

##### Financial assistance

###### Financial assistance for resilience and continuity purposes

287

287.1

The Secretary of State may, with the consent of the Treasury, provide
financial assistance to a core fuel sector participant for the purpose of—

287.1.a

maintaining or improving core fuel sector resilience, or

287.1.b

securing or maintaining continuity of supply of core fuels.

287.2

Financial assistance under this section may be given in any form.

287.3

Financial assistance under this section may, in particular, be given by way
of—

287.3.a

grants,

287.3.b

loans,

287.3.c

guarantee or indemnity,

287.3.d

the acquisition of shares or any other interest in, or securities of, a body
corporate,

287.3.e

the acquisition of any undertaking or assets, or

287.3.f

incurring expenditure for the benefit of the person assisted.

287.4

Financial assistance under this section may be given on such terms and
conditions as the Secretary of State considers appropriate (including
provision for repayment, with or without interest).

287.5

The Secretary of State is not authorised by this section to give financial
assistance in the way described in  subsection (3) (d)  without the consent of
the body corporate concerned.

##### Power to amend thresholds

###### Power to amend thresholds

288

288.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend or modify any provision
mentioned in  subsection (2)  for the purpose of varying any amount for the
time being specified in that provision.

288.2

The provisions are—

288.2.a

section 269 (7)  (directions to core fuel sector participants);

288.2.b

section 272 (5)  (corresponding powers to make regulations);

288.2.c

section 273 (1)  (power to require information);

288.2.d

section 274 (2) (a)  and (b) (duty to report incidents);

288.2.e

section 276 (1)  (provision of information at specified intervals).

288.3

Regulations under  this section  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Interpretation of 

###### Interpretation of 

289

289.1

In this Part—

      “ company ” means a company within the meaning of section 1 of the
Companies Act 2006;           “ continuity of supply of core fuels ” is to be
interpreted in accordance with  section 268 (7) ;           “ core fuel sector
activity ” has the meaning given by  section 268 ;           “ core fuel
sector participant ” has the meaning given by  section 268 (6) ;           “
core fuel sector resilience ” has the meaning given by  section 268 (5) ;
“ core fuels ” has the meaning given by  section 268 (4) ;           “ crude
oil ” means any liquid hydrocarbon mixture occurring naturally in the earth
whether or not treated to render it suitable for transportation, and includes—
crude oils from which distillate fractions have been removed, and
crude oils to which distillate fractions have been added;                 “
crude oil based fuel ” means any fuel comprised wholly or mainly of crude oil
or substances derived from crude oil;           “ enactment ” includes—
an enactment contained in subordinate legislation (as defined in section 21 of
the Interpretation Act 1978);           an enactment contained in, or in an
instrument made under, a Measure or Act of Senedd Cymru;           an
enactment contained in, or in an instrument made under, an Act of the Scottish
Parliament;           an enactment contained in, or in an instrument made
under, Northern Ireland legislation;           any retained direct EU
legislation;                 “ enforcement undertaking ” has the meaning given
by  section 284 ;           “ oil ” means—         crude oil;           crude
oil based fuels;           components;                 “ the owned facility ”,
in relation to a  Part 12  facility owner, has the meaning given by  section
268 (11) ;           “ Part 12 facility owner ” has the meaning given by
section 268 (11) ;           “ person carrying on core fuel sector activities
” is to be interpreted in accordance with  section 268 (13) ;           “
relevant activities or assets ” is to be interpreted in accordance with
section 268 (10) ;           “ relevant wetstock manager ” has the meaning
given by  section 273 (3) ;           “ renewable transport fuel ” has the
meaning given by section 132 of the Energy Act 2004;           “ terminal ”
means any site for the storage in bulk of oil or renewable transport fuel.

289.2

In this Part references to the “ capacity ” of a business or of a facility or
infrastructure are to be interpreted in accordance with  section 269 (8) .

289.3

References in this Part to a person carrying on business include references to
a person carrying on business in partnership with one or more other persons.

289.4

For the purposes of the definition of “oil” in  subsection (1)  “ component ”
means any substance (whether or not derived from crude oil) of a kind which is
mixed with other substances to produce a crude oil based fuel.

### Offshore wind electricity generation, oil and gas

#### Offshore wind electricity generation

##### Meaning of “relevant offshore wind activity”

290

290.1

In this Chapter, “ relevant offshore wind activity ” means—

290.1.a

the planning, construction, operation or decommissioning of offshore wind
electricity infrastructure, or

290.1.b

the identification of an area for activity within  paragraph (a)  (whether or
not any particular offshore wind electricity infrastructure is in
contemplation).

290.2

In subsection (1), “ offshore wind electricity infrastructure ” means—

290.2.a

a generating station, in the UK marine area, that generates electricity from
wind (an “offshore wind generating station”), or

290.2.b

infrastructure, in the UK marine area, used or intended for use in connection
with—

290.2.b.i

an offshore wind generating station, or

290.2.b.ii

the conveyance of electricity generated by an offshore wind generating
station.

290.3

For the purposes of the reference in  subsection (2) (b) (ii)  to
infrastructure used or intended for use in connection with the conveyance of
electricity generated by an offshore wind generating station, it does not
matter whether the infrastructure is also used or intended for use in
connection with the conveyance of electricity generated from other sources.

##### Strategic compensation for adverse environmental effects

291

291.1

This section applies where a public authority is subject to one or more
environmental compensation obligations in relation to relevant offshore wind
activities.

291.2

“ Environmental compensation obligation ” means—

291.2.a

a statutory duty (however expressed) to secure that measures are taken to
compensate for adverse environmental effects of an activity, or

291.2.b

a statutory condition (however expressed) requiring a public authority, before
granting consent for the doing of an act by a person (“ P ”) in connection
with an activity, to be satisfied that P will take or secure the taking of
measures to compensate for adverse environmental effects of the act.

291.3

The public authority may determine that—

291.3.a

measures taken or secured by the authority in the exercise of any of its
functions, or

291.3.b

measures to be taken or secured by the authority in the exercise of any of its
functions,

are to count towards discharging the environmental compensation obligation or
obligations to which the authority is subject.

291.4

In this Chapter, “ adverse environmental effect ” means—

291.4.a

anything that adversely affects the integrity of any site comprised in the
national site network, or

291.4.b

anything that hinders the achievement of the conservation objectives stated
for a protected marine area.

291.5

The measures referred to in subsection  (3)  may be measures taken at the site
or sites of the activities to which the measures relate or elsewhere.

291.6

In this section—

      “ act ” includes omission;           “ the national site network ” has
the same meaning as in the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations
2017 ( S.I. 2017/1012 );           “ protected marine area ” means an area
designated under—         section 116 of the Marine and Coastal Access Act
2009 or section 13 of the Marine Act (Northern Ireland)  2013 (c. 10 (N.I.))
(marine conservation zones), or           section 67(1)(a) of the Marine
(Scotland) Act  2010 (asp 5)  (marine protected areas);                 “
statutory ”, in relation to a duty or condition, means imposed by or under
primary legislation.

291.7

For the purposes of subsection  (3) , a public authority (“ authority A ”)
may, with the consent of another public authority (“ authority B ”), treat
measures taken or secured (or to be taken or secured) by authority B as taken
or secured (or to be taken or secured) by authority A in the exercise of any
of its functions.

291.8

In subsection  (4) (b) , the reference to the conservation objectives stated
for a protected marine area is a reference to the conservation objectives
stated for the area pursuant to (as the case may be) section 117(2)(b) of the
Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009, section 14(2)(b) of the Marine Act
(Northern Ireland) 2013 or section 68(3)(b) of the Marine (Scotland) Act 2010.

##### Marine recovery fund

292

292.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for the
establishment, operation and management of one or more marine recovery funds.

292.2

A marine recovery fund is a fund—

292.2.a

into which payments may be made in respect of relevant offshore wind
activities, and

292.2.b

out of which payments may be made towards expenditure on measures to
compensate for adverse environmental effects of relevant offshore wind
activities.

292.3

The following provisions of this section are without prejudice to the
generality of subsection  (1) .

292.4

Regulations under this section may make provision—

292.4.a

enabling a determination to be made, by or on behalf of the relevant person,
as to whether (and, if so, the extent to which) a payment into the fund
discharges a compensation condition imposed on another person in connection
with the granting of consent in respect of a relevant offshore wind activity;

292.4.b

for a payment into the fund to be treated as discharging a compensation
condition to the extent (if any) determined by virtue of paragraph  (a) .

292.5

“ Compensation condition ”, in relation to a person, means a condition
requiring the person to take measures to compensate for adverse environmental
effects of a relevant offshore wind activity.

292.6

“Relevant person”, for the purposes of a determination made by virtue of
subsection (4) (a) , means the person who imposed the compensation condition.

292.7

Regulations under this section may make provision—

292.7.a

enabling payments to be made out of the fund towards expenditure described in
subsection  (2) (b) ;

292.7.b

about the persons to whom such a payment may be made;

292.7.c

enabling conditions to be imposed on a person to whom such a payment is made
in connection with the taking of measures described in subsection  (2) (b) .

292.8

Regulations under this section may make provision—

292.8.a

about the recovery of costs incurred in connection with the exercise of
functions conferred by the regulations;

292.8.b

conferring functions, including functions involving the exercise of a
discretion, on the Secretary of State;

292.8.c

for the delegation of functions conferred on the Secretary of State, where the
functions relate to the operation or management of a marine recovery fund.

292.9

Regulations made by virtue of subsection  (8) (c)  may provide that a function
may be delegated—

292.9.a

to a Scottish public authority only if the function relates to the taking or
securing of measures in Scotland;

292.9.b

to a Welsh public authority only if the function relates to the taking or
securing of measures in Wales;

292.9.c

to a Northern Ireland public authority only if the function relates to the
taking or securing of measures in Northern Ireland.

292.10

Regulations made by virtue of subsection  (8) (c)  must provide that the
delegation of a function—

292.10.a

to a Scottish public authority requires the consent of the Scottish Ministers;

292.10.b

to a Welsh public authority requires the consent of the Welsh Ministers;

292.10.c

to a Northern Ireland public authority requires the consent of DAERA.

292.11

Regulations made by virtue of subsection  (8) (c)  must provide that the
delegation of a function—

292.11.a

may be cancelled by the Secretary of State in accordance with the regulations;

292.11.b

does not prevent the Secretary of State from carrying out any function
delegated.

292.12

Before making regulations under this section, the Secretary of State must
consult—

292.12.a

the Scottish Ministers, so far as the regulations relate to relevant offshore
wind activities in Scotland,

292.12.b

the Welsh Ministers, so far as the regulations relate to relevant offshore
wind activities in Wales,

292.12.c

DAERA, so far as the regulations relate to relevant offshore wind activities
in Northern Ireland, and

292.12.d

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

292.13

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

##### Assessment of environmental effects etc

293

293.1

The appropriate authority may by regulations make—

293.1.a

provision for and in connection with the assessment of the environmental
effects of relevant offshore wind activities in relation to protected sites;

293.1.b

provision about the taking or securing of measures by a public authority in
compensation for any adverse environmental effects of relevant offshore wind
activities in relation to protected sites (“compensatory measures”).

293.2

The appropriate authority is the Secretary of State, subject to paragraphs
(a)  to  (c) —

293.2.a

the Scottish Ministers are the appropriate authority in relation to relevant
offshore wind activities in the Scottish inshore region;

293.2.b

the Welsh Ministers are the appropriate authority in relation to relevant
offshore wind activities in the Welsh inshore region, subject to subsection
(3)  and other than in relation to qualifying Secretary of State functions;

293.2.c

DAERA is the appropriate authority in relation to relevant offshore wind
activities in the Northern Ireland inshore region, other than in relation to
qualifying Secretary of State functions.

293.3

In subsection  (2) (b) , “ relevant offshore wind activity ” does not include
an activity within  section 290 (1) (a)  relating to a generating station that
has a capacity such that the construction or extension of the generating
station would be a nationally significant infrastructure project (within the
meaning given by sections 14 and 15 of the Planning Act 2008).

293.4

The provision that may be made by virtue of subsection  (1)  includes
provision—

293.4.a

specifying the matters to be dealt with by an assessment;

293.4.b

about the procedure to be followed in carrying out an assessment, including
when an assessment must be carried out and matters that must be taken into
account;

293.4.c

specifying the person by whom an assessment, or a specified kind of
assessment, must be carried out;

293.4.d

requiring an assessment to be carried out by a specified person in specified
circumstances;

293.4.e

authorising or requiring the supply of information (including information the
supply of which would not otherwise be permitted) for the purposes of an
assessment;

293.4.f

enabling a person carrying out an assessment (an “assessor”) to require a
person who has applied for consent to provide the assessor with assistance for
the purposes of or in connection with the assessment;

293.4.g

prohibiting the granting of consent in respect of an activity where an
assessment has not been carried out in accordance with the regulations;

293.4.h

about when or how compensatory measures must or may be provided;

293.4.i

disapplying or otherwise modifying, whether generally or in specified
circumstances or subject to specified conditions, any of the provisions listed
in subsection  (5) (a) ,  (b) ,  (c)  or  (d)  (as the case may be).

293.5

The provisions referred to in subsection  (4) (i)  are—

293.5.a

in the case of regulations made by the Secretary of State—

293.5.a.i

section 126 of the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009;

293.5.a.ii

regulations 9 and 10 and Part 6 of the Conservation of Habitats and Species
Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/1012 );

293.5.a.iii

regulations 6, 27, 28 and 30 to 37 of the Conservation of Offshore Marine
Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/1013 );

293.5.a.iv

any other provision that relates to the taking or securing of compensatory
measures, where the provision is made by or under an Act;

293.5.b

in the case of regulations made by the Scottish Ministers—

293.5.b.i

section 83 of the Marine (Scotland) Act  2010 (asp 5) ;

293.5.b.ii

regulations 3 and 3A and Part 4 of the Conservation (Natural Habitats, &c.)
Regulations 1994 ( S.I. 1994/2716 );

293.5.b.iii

regulations 9 and 10 and Part 6 of the Conservation of Habitats and Species
Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/1012 );

293.5.b.iv

any other provision that relates to the taking or securing of compensatory
measures in or in relation to the Scottish inshore region, where the provision
is made by or under an Act of the Scottish Parliament;

293.5.c

in the case of regulations made by the Welsh Ministers—

293.5.c.i

section 126 of the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009;

293.5.c.ii

regulations 9 and 10 and Part 6 of the Conservation of Habitats and Species
Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/1012 );

293.5.c.iii

any other provision that relates to the taking or securing of compensatory
measures, where the provision is made by or under an Act or Measure of Senedd
Cymru;

293.5.d

in the case of regulations made by DAERA—

293.5.d.i

section 23 of the Marine Act (Northern Ireland) 2013;

293.5.d.ii

regulations 3 and 3A and Part 4 of the Conservation (Natural Habitats, etc.)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1995 ( S.R. (N.I.) 1995 No. 380 );

293.5.d.iii

any other provision that relates to the taking or securing of compensatory
measures in or in relation to the Northern Ireland inshore region, where the
provision is made by or under Northern Ireland legislation.

293.6

But regulations under this section may not disapply or otherwise modify, or
make provision which could undermine or circumvent—

293.6.a

section 126(7)(a) or (b) of the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009, section
83(4)(b)(i) or (ii) of the Marine (Scotland) Act 2010 or section 23(7)(a) or
(b) of the Marine Act (Northern Ireland) 2013,

293.6.b

regulation 64 of the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017,

293.6.c

regulation 29 of the Conservation of Offshore Marine Habitats and Species
Regulations 2017,

293.6.d

regulation 49 of the Conservation (Natural Habitats, &c.) Regulations 1994,

293.6.e

regulation 44 of the Conservation (Natural Habitats, etc.) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 1995, or

293.6.f

any provision about qualifying Secretary of State functions (unless the
regulations are made by the Secretary of State).

293.7

Regulations made under this section by the Secretary of State—

293.7.a

may not provide for a function that is exercisable by a Scottish public
authority, a Welsh public authority or a Northern Ireland public authority to
cease to be exercisable by that authority, and

293.7.b

to the extent that a function is exercisable by or on behalf of a Scottish
public authority, a Welsh public authority or a Northern Ireland public
authority, may not provide for the function also to be exercisable to that
extent by another person,

but may (subject to paragraphs  (a)  and  (b) ) modify such a function.

293.8

Regulations under this section may make provision—

293.8.a

enabling the appropriate authority or a specified person to direct a person to
take steps or to refrain from taking steps;

293.8.b

requiring a person given such a direction to comply with it.

293.9

But regulations made by the Secretary of State by virtue of subsection  (8)
(a)  may not enable directions to be given—

293.9.a

to a Scottish public authority by a person other than the Scottish Ministers;

293.9.b

to a Welsh public authority by a person other than the Welsh Ministers.

293.10

Regulations under this section may require the appropriate authority or a
specified person—

293.10.a

to give guidance about specified matters;

293.10.b

to consult specified persons, or persons of a specified description, before
giving guidance by virtue of  paragraph (a) .

293.11

Regulations under this section may confer functions, including functions
involving the exercise of a discretion—

293.11.a

in the case of regulations made by the Secretary State, on any person;

293.11.b

in any other case, on a person other than a Minister of the Crown.

293.12

The functions that may be conferred on a person by virtue of subsection  (11)
include a function of giving advice in relation to the application or exercise
of any other function, whether exercisable by that or another person, under or
by virtue of regulations under this section.

293.13

In this section—

      “ protected site ” has the meaning determined in accordance with
regulations under this section; and those regulations—         must be framed
so that protected sites consist of natural habitats or habitats of species,
and           must in particular include protected marine areas;
“ qualifying Secretary of State functions ” means functions of the Secretary
of State in relation to relevant offshore wind activities in (as the case may
be) the Welsh inshore region or the Northern Ireland inshore region;
“ specified ” means specified in regulations under this section.

##### Regulations under 

294

294.1

The Secretary of State must, before making regulations under  section 293 ,
consult—

294.1.a

the Marine Management Organisation,

294.1.b

the Joint Nature Conservation Committee,

294.1.c

Natural England,

294.1.d

the Scottish Ministers and Scottish Natural Heritage, so far as the
regulations relate to relevant offshore wind activities or protected sites in
Scotland,

294.1.e

the Welsh Ministers and the Natural Resources Body for Wales, so far as the
regulations relate to relevant offshore wind activities or protected sites in
Wales,

294.1.f

DAERA, so far as the regulations relate to protected sites in Northern
Ireland, and

294.1.g

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

294.2

Regulations made by the Secretary of State under  section 293  are subject to
the affirmative procedure.

294.3

The Scottish Ministers must, before making regulations under  section 293 ,
consult—

294.3.a

the Secretary of State,

294.3.b

the Marine Management Organisation, so far as the regulations relate to
protected sites in England or the Northern Ireland offshore region,

294.3.c

Natural England, so far as the regulations relate to protected sites in
England,

294.3.d

the Joint Nature Conservation Committee, so far as the regulations relate to
protected sites in such part of the UK marine area as is beyond the seaward
limits of the territorial sea,

294.3.e

Scottish Natural Heritage, so far as the regulations relate to protected sites
in Scotland,

294.3.f

the Welsh Ministers and the Natural Resources Body for Wales, so far as the
regulations relate to protected sites in Wales,

294.3.g

DAERA, so far as the regulations relate to protected sites in Northern
Ireland, and

294.3.h

such other persons as they consider appropriate.

294.4

Regulations made by the Scottish Ministers under  section 293  are subject to
the affirmative procedure (see section 29 of the Interpretation and
Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act  2010 (asp 10) ).

294.5

The Welsh Ministers must, before making regulations under  section 293 ,
consult—

294.5.a

the Secretary of State,

294.5.b

the Marine Management Organisation, so far as the regulations relate to
protected sites in England or the Northern Ireland offshore region,

294.5.c

Natural England, so far as the regulations relate to protected sites in
England,

294.5.d

the Joint Nature Conservation Committee, so far as the regulations relate to
protected sites in such part of the UK marine area as is beyond the seaward
limits of the territorial sea,

294.5.e

the Scottish Ministers and Scottish Natural Heritage, so far as the
regulations relate to protected sites in Scotland,

294.5.f

the Natural Resources Body for Wales, so far as the regulations relate to
protected sites in Wales,

294.5.g

DAERA, so far as the regulations relate to protected sites in Northern
Ireland, and

294.5.h

such other persons as they consider appropriate.

294.6

The power of the Welsh Ministers to make regulations under  section 293  is
exercisable by statutory instrument.

294.7

A statutory instrument containing regulations made by the Welsh Ministers
under  section 293  may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been
laid before, and approved by a resolution of, Senedd Cymru.

294.8

DAERA must, before making regulations under  section 293 , consult—

294.8.a

the Secretary of State,

294.8.b

the Marine Management Organisation, so far as the regulations relate to
protected sites in England or the Northern Ireland offshore region,

294.8.c

Natural England, so far as the regulations relate to protected sites in
England,

294.8.d

the Joint Nature Conservation Committee, so far as the regulations relate to
protected sites in such part of the UK marine area as is beyond the seaward
limits of the territorial sea,

294.8.e

the Scottish Ministers and Scottish Natural Heritage, so far as the
regulations relate to protected sites in Scotland,

294.8.f

the Welsh Ministers and the Natural Resources Body for Wales, so far as the
regulations relate to protected sites in Wales, and

294.8.g

such other persons as DAERA considers appropriate.

294.9

The power of DAERA to make regulations under  section 293  is exercisable by
statutory rule for the purposes of the Statutory Rules (Northern Ireland)
Order 1979 ( S.I. 1979/1573 (N.I. 12)) .

294.10

Regulations may not be made under  section 293  by DAERA unless a draft of the
regulations has been laid before and approved by a resolution of the Northern
Ireland Assembly.

294.11

In this section, “ protected site ” has the same meaning as in  section 293 .

##### Interpretation of Chapter 1

295

295.1

In this Chapter—

      “ adverse environmental effect ” has the meaning given by  section 291
(4) ;           “ consent ” means any consent, approval, permission,
authorisation or confirmation (however described or given) that is required,
or otherwise provided for, by or under primary legislation;           “ DAERA
” means the Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs in
Northern Ireland;           “ England ” includes the English inshore region
and the English offshore region;           “ Minister of the Crown ” has the
same meaning as in the Ministers of the Crown Act 1975 (see section 8(1) of
that Act);           “ Northern Ireland ” includes the Northern Ireland
inshore region;           “ primary legislation ” means—         an Act of
Parliament,           an Act or Measure of Senedd Cymru,           an Act of
the Scottish Parliament, or           Northern Ireland legislation;
“ protected marine area ” has the meaning given by  section 291 (6) ;
“ public authority ” means—         a Minister of the Crown,           the
Scottish Ministers,           the Welsh Ministers,           a Northern
Ireland department, or           any other person with functions of a public
nature;                 “ relevant offshore wind activity ” has the meaning
given by  section 290 ;           “ Scotland ” includes the Scottish inshore
region and the Scottish offshore region;           “ UK marine area ” has the
meaning given by section 42(1) of the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009;
“ Wales ” includes the Welsh inshore region and the Welsh offshore region.

295.2

References in this Chapter to the English, Scottish, Welsh or Northern Ireland
inshore and offshore regions are to be construed in accordance with the Marine
and Coastal Access Act 2009 (see section 322 of that Act).

295.3

References in this Chapter—

295.3.a

to a Scottish public authority are to the Scottish Ministers or any other
public authority whose functions are exercisable only or mainly in or as
regards Scotland;

295.3.b

to a Welsh public authority are to the Welsh Ministers or any other public
authority whose functions are exercisable only or mainly in or as regards
Wales;

295.3.c

to a Northern Ireland public authority are to a Northern Ireland department or
any other public authority whose functions are exercisable only or mainly in
or as regards Northern Ireland.

#### Oil and Gas

##### Environmental protection

###### Arrangements for responding to marine oil pollution

296

296.1

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, make provision—

296.1.a

requiring a person responsible for infrastructure or a place to which
subsection (2)  applies to have an emergency plan setting out arrangements for
responding to incidents which cause, or may cause, marine oil pollution,

296.1.b

in connection with that requirement, and

296.1.c

about the reporting of such incidents.

296.2

This subsection  applies to—

296.2.a

an offshore installation, or an offshore well, that is used for or in
connection with—

296.2.a.i

offshore oil and gas operations, or

296.2.a.ii

offshore production or storage of gas;

296.2.b

offshore infrastructure, including pipelines, connected to such an
installation or well;

296.2.c

a harbour;

296.2.d

a facility, that is not offshore, for handling or storing oil or gas;

296.2.e

infrastructure or a place described in any of  paragraphs (a)  to  (d)  that
is being decommissioned or has been decommissioned or abandoned.

296.3

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may, in particular, make provision in
connection with the implementation, maintenance and review of an emergency
plan, including provision requiring—

296.3.a

a person to refrain from carrying out activities that may cause marine oil
pollution unless and until an emergency plan is in place;

296.3.b

an emergency plan to be reviewed in accordance with the regulations;

296.3.c

the amendment or replacement of an emergency plan in circumstances specified
in the regulations;

296.3.d

a person to ensure readiness to carry out an emergency plan;

296.3.e

a person to carry out an emergency plan.

296.4

Regulations under  subsection (1)  about the reporting of incidents may, in
particular—

296.4.a

set out—

296.4.a.i

circumstances in which a report must be made;

296.4.a.ii

by whom a report must be made;

296.4.a.iii

to whom a report must be made;

296.4.b

make provision as to the content and form of a report and the time by which a
report must be made.

296.5

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, make provision enabling the
inspection of infrastructure or a place to which  subsection (2)  applies.

296.6

Regulations under  subsection (1)  or  (5)  may, in particular, make
provision—

296.6.a

about the meaning which any expression used in  subsection (1) ,  (2) ,  (3) ,
(4)  or  (5)  is to have for the purposes of regulations under  subsection (1)
or  (5) ;

296.6.b

conferring functions on any person;

296.6.c

providing for the charging of fees (but see  subsection (7) );

296.6.d

authorising or requiring, or restricting or prohibiting, the supply or keeping
of information (including provision authorising or requiring the supply or
keeping of information that would not otherwise be permitted);

296.6.e

creating criminal offences or impose civil penalties (but see  subsection (8)
);

296.6.f

for the purpose of securing compliance with requirements imposed by or under
regulations under  subsection (1)  or  (5) .

296.7

Regulations under  subsection (1)  or  (5)  which provide for a fee to be
charged in respect of a person performing a function or doing any other thing
must secure that, taking one year with another, the income from the fees does
not exceed the cost of performing the function or doing the thing.

296.8

Regulations under  subsection (1)  or  (5)  may not provide—

296.8.a

for a criminal offence to be punishable with imprisonment;

296.8.b

for a civil penalty to exceed £50,000.

296.9

Where regulations under subsection  (1)  or  (5)  provide for the imposition
of a civil penalty, they must also include provision for a right of appeal
against the imposition of the penalty.

296.10

Regulations under  subsection (1)  or  (5)  containing any of the following
(with or without other provision) are subject to the affirmative procedure—

296.10.a

provision creating a criminal offence or civil penalty (but excluding
provision modifying the circumstances in which a person is guilty of an
existing offence or liable for an existing civil penalty);

296.10.b

provision specifying a civil penalty amount.

296.11

Any other regulations under  subsection (1)  or  (5)  are subject to the
negative procedure.

296.12

In  this section —

      “ gas ” means—         “gas” within the meaning of section 2 of the
Energy Act 2008,           carbon dioxide, and           hydrogen;
“ oil ” means petroleum in any form including crude oil, fuel oil, sludge, oil
refuse and refined products.

###### Habitats: reducing effects of offshore oil or gas activities etc

297

297.1

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, make provision requiring the
Secretary of State to take into account the implications for relevant sites
when deciding whether, or how, to carry out a function (including a function
under other regulations under this section) which relates to—

297.1.a

offshore oil and gas activities, or

297.1.b

offshore production or storage of gas.

297.2

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, make provision—

297.2.a

prohibiting a specified description of activities from being carried out
unless the consent of the Secretary of State has been obtained, and

297.2.b

requiring a person who has obtained such a consent to carry out any activity
to which the consent relates in accordance with the consent (and any
conditions to which the consent is subject).

297.3

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, make provision preventing a
specified description of licence from being granted unless the Secretary of
State has or Scottish Ministers have—

297.3.a

carried out a specified description of assessment, and

297.3.b

confirmed that the outcome of that assessment does not prevent the licence
from being granted.

297.4

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, make provision—

297.4.a

authorising the Secretary of State to give a person directions to take steps,
or to refrain from taking steps, and

297.4.b

requiring a person given such a direction to comply with it.

297.5

The Secretary of State may make regulations under subsection  (2) ,  (3)  or
(4)  only if the Secretary of State considers that the regulations would
contribute to the protection of relevant sites from adverse effects of—

297.5.a

offshore oil and gas activities, or

297.5.b

offshore production or storage of gas.

297.6

For the purposes of regulations made under another provision of this section,
“ relevant site ” has the meaning determined in accordance with the
regulations; and those regulations—

297.6.a

must be framed so that relevant sites consist of natural habitats or habitats
of species;

297.6.b

may, where they are framed by reference to provision made by other
legislation, be framed so as to include natural habitats or habitats of
species that are likely to fall within that provision of that other
legislation.

297.7

Regulations under this section may—

297.7.a

make provision about the meaning which any expression used in this section is
to have for the purposes of regulations under this section;

297.7.b

confer functions on any person (including a function of giving advice in
relation to the application or exercise of any other function, whether
exercisable by that or another person, under regulations under this section);

297.7.c

provide for the modification or revocation of any consent given under
regulations under subsection  (2) ;

297.7.d

provide for the charging of fees;

297.7.e

authorise, or restrict or prohibit, the supply or keeping of information
(including authorisation of the supply or keeping of information that would
not otherwise be permitted);

297.7.f

create criminal offences or impose civil penalties (but see subsection  (8) );

297.7.g

make other provision for the purpose of securing compliance with requirements
imposed by or under regulations under this section.

297.8

Regulations under this section may not provide—

297.8.a

for a criminal offence to be punishable with imprisonment or, on summary
conviction, to a fine exceeding the statutory maximum;

297.8.b

for a civil penalty of a fixed amount to exceed £2,500 or of a variable amount
to exceed £50,000.

297.9

Where regulations under this section provide for the imposition of a civil
penalty, they must also include provision for a right of appeal against the
imposition of the penalty.

297.10

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

297.11

In  this section —

      “ licence ” means anything (however described) which permits a person to
do something;           “ specified ” means specified in regulations under
this section.

###### Regulations under sections 

298

######### Regulations under section 

298.1

Before making regulations under section  296  that contain provision within
devolved competence, the Secretary of State must give notice to each relevant
devolved authority—

298.1.a

stating that the Secretary of State proposes to make regulations under that
section,

298.1.b

setting out or describing the provision that is within the relevant devolved
competence, and

298.1.c

specifying the period (of not less than 28 days from the date on which the
notice is given) within which representations may be made with respect to that
provision,

and must consider any representations duly made and not withdrawn.

298.2

The Secretary of State need not wait until the end of the period specified
under subsection  (1) (c)  before making regulations if, before the end of
that period, each relevant devolved authority to which the notice was given
has confirmed that it has made any representations it intends to make with
respect to the provision referred to in  subsection (1) (b) .

298.3

The Secretary of State must, if requested to do so by a relevant devolved
authority, give the authority a statement setting out whether and how
representations made by the authority with respect to the provision referred
to in  subsection (1) (b)  have been taken into account in the regulations.

298.4

In subsections  (1)  to  (3) , “ relevant devolved authority ”, in relation to
regulations, means—

298.4.a

the Scottish Ministers, if the regulations contain provision within Scottish
devolved competence;

298.4.b

the Welsh Ministers, if the regulations contain provision within Welsh
devolved competence;

298.4.c

the Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs in Northern
Ireland, if the regulations contain provision within Northern Ireland devolved
competence;

and “ the relevant devolved competence ”, in relation to a relevant devolved
authority, is to be construed accordingly.

######### Regulations under section 

298.5

The Secretary of State may not make regulations under section  297  containing
provision within Scottish devolved competence unless the Scottish Ministers
have consented to that provision.

298.6

The Secretary of State may not make regulations under section  297  containing
provision within Welsh devolved competence unless the Welsh Ministers have
consented to that provision.

######### Devolved competence

298.7

For the purposes of this section, provision—

298.7.a

is within Scottish devolved competence if it would be within the legislative
competence of the Scottish Parliament if it were contained in an Act of that
Parliament;

298.7.b

is within Welsh devolved competence if it would be within the legislative
competence of Senedd Cymru if it were contained in an Act of the Senedd
(ignoring any requirement for the consent of a Minister of the Crown imposed
under Schedule 7B to the Government of Wales Act 2006);

298.7.c

is within Northern Ireland devolved competence if it—

298.7.c.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
it were contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

298.7.c.ii

would not, if it were contained in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State under
section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998;

and references to provision being within devolved competence are to provision
that is within Scottish, Welsh or Northern Ireland devolved competence.

##### Decommissioning: charging

###### Charges in connection with abandonment of offshore installations

299

299.1

In the Petroleum Act 1998, after section 38B insert—

############ Charges in connection with exercise of functions under Part 4

299.1.38C

299.1.38C.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument provide
for payment to the Secretary of State of charges for or in connection with the
carrying out by the Secretary of State of the Secretary of State’s functions
under this Part.

299.1.38C.2

Regulations under this section may provide that a charge is to be of an
amount—

299.1.38C.2.a

specified in the regulations, or

299.1.38C.2.b

determined by the Secretary of State in accordance with the regulations.

299.1.38C.3

Regulations under this section may specify matters to which the Secretary of
State must have regard when determining the amount of a charge.

299.1.38C.4

Regulations under this section may specify—

299.1.38C.4.a

how a charge is to be paid;

299.1.38C.4.b

when a charge is to be paid;

299.1.38C.4.c

the person by whom a charge is to be paid.

299.1.38C.5

Provision made by virtue of subsection  (4) (c)  may confer a discretion on
the Secretary of State.

299.1.38C.6

Regulations under this section may—

299.1.38C.6.a

include incidental, supplementary or consequential provision;

299.1.38C.6.b

include transitory or transitional provision or savings;

299.1.38C.6.c

make different provision for different purposes.

299.1.38C.7

Before making regulations under this section, the Secretary of State must
consult organisations in the United Kingdom that appear to the Secretary of
State to be representative of persons who are likely to be affected by the
regulations.

299.1.38C.8

The Secretary of State must not make regulations under this section without
the consent of the Treasury.

299.1.38C.9

A statutory instrument containing regulations under this section is subject to
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

299.2

In section 30 of the Energy Act 2008 (abandonment of installations), in
subsection (2)(a), for the words from “the reference” to “Scottish Parliament”
substitute  “sections 38C (9)  and 39(6) of the 1998 Act are to be read as if
each of those sections imposed a requirement that regulations under the
section concerned are subject to the negative procedure (see section 28 of the
Interpretation and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act 2010)” .

299.3

The Petroleum Act 1998 is amended as follows in consequence of subsection  (1)
.

299.4

In section 29 (preparation of programmes), omit subsection (5).

299.5

In section 33(4) (failure to submit programmes), for the words from “any fee”
to the end substitute  “any charge that would have been payable by those
persons in accordance with regulations under section  38C  if they had
complied with the notice under section 29(1)” .

299.6

In section 34(4) (revision of programmes), omit the words from “and a person”
to the end.

299.7

In section 39 (regulations)—

299.7.a

in subsection (2), omit paragraph (e);

299.7.b

in subsection (5), omit the words from “and he” to the end.

##### Change in control of licensee

###### Model clauses of petroleum licences

300

300.1

Schedule 21  amends model clauses contained in—

300.1.a

the Petroleum (Production) (Landward Areas) Regulations 1995 ( S.I. 1995/1436
),

300.1.b

the Petroleum (Current Model Clauses) Order 1999 ( S.I. 1999/160 ),

300.1.c

the Petroleum Licensing (Exploration and Production) (Seaward and Landward
Areas) Regulations 2004 ( S.I. 2004/352 ),

300.1.d

the Petroleum Licensing (Production) (Seaward Areas) Regulations 2008 ( S.I.
2008/225 ), and

300.1.e

the Petroleum Licensing (Exploration and Production) (Landward Areas)
Regulations 2014 ( S.I. 2014/1686 ).

300.2

Where a licence granted (or having effect as if granted) by the Oil and Gas
Authority under the Petroleum (Production) Act 1934 or the Petroleum Act 1998—

300.2.a

incorporates model clauses amended by a paragraph of  Schedule 21  (whether or
not any provision of those model clauses is modified or excluded), and

300.2.b

is in force immediately before that paragraph comes into force,

the licence has effect with the amendments provided for by that paragraph.

300.3

The power conferred by reason of the amendment made by  paragraph 70 (2)  of
Schedule 21  to partially revoke a licence because of the occurrence of an
event mentioned in model clause 41(2)(h) in Schedule 2 to the Petroleum
Licensing (Exploration and Production) (Landward Areas) Regulations 2014 may
not be exercised as a result of such an event which occurred before the
commencement of paragraph  70  of  Schedule 21 .

300.4

A reference in any document to provisions of a licence which are amended by
Schedule 21  is to be construed, unless the nature of the document or the
context otherwise requires, as a reference to those provisions as amended.

300.5

A provision inserted in a licence by virtue of  Schedule 21  may be altered or
deleted by deed executed by the Secretary of State and the licensee or, as
respects Scotland, by an instrument subscribed or authenticated by the
Secretary of State and the licensee in accordance with the Requirements of
Writing (Scotland) Act 1995.

###### Power of OGA to require information about change in control of licensee

301

After section 5C of the Petroleum Act 1998 insert—

########## OGA’s power to require information about change in control of licensee

301.5D

301.5D.1

This section applies in relation to a licence granted (or having effect as if
granted) by the OGA under this Part which includes provisions prohibiting a
change in control of a licensee which is a company without the OGA’s consent.

301.5D.2

The OGA may by notice in writing require a person within subsection (3) to
provide the OGA with any information that it requires for the purpose of
exercising its functions in relation to a change or potential change in
control of a licensee which is a company.

301.5D.3

The persons within this subsection are—

301.5D.3.a

the company;

301.5D.3.b

the person who (if consent were granted) would take control of the company;

301.5D.3.c

if the company and another person or persons are the licensee, that other
person or those other persons;

301.5D.3.d

any person not within any of paragraphs (a) to (c) who appears to the OGA to
have information that it requires as mentioned in subsection (2).

301.5D.4

The power conferred by this section does not include power to require the
provision of any information that would be protected from disclosure or
production in legal proceedings on grounds of legal professional privilege or,
in Scotland, confidentiality of communications.

301.5D.5

Nothing in this section limits any power of the OGA to require information
under—

301.5D.5.a

regulations under this Part, or

301.5D.5.b

the terms of a licence under this Part.

### Civil nuclear sector

#### Civil nuclear sites

##### Application to the territorial sea of requirement for nuclear site licence

302

302.1

The Nuclear Installations Act 1965 is amended in accordance with subsections
(2) and (3).

302.2

In section 1 (restriction of certain nuclear installations to licensed sites),
after subsection (11) insert—

302.2.12

In this section, “ site ” includes a site situated wholly or partly in or
under the territorial sea adjacent to the United Kingdom.

302.3

In section 26(1) (interpretation), in the definition of “the appropriate
national authority”—

302.3.a

in paragraph (a), after “Scotland” insert  “(including the territorial sea
adjacent to them)” ;

302.3.b

in paragraph (b), after “Northern Ireland” insert  “(including the territorial
sea adjacent to it)” .

302.4

In section 68 of the Energy Act 2013 (nuclear safety purposes), after
subsection (3) insert—

302.4.4

In the definition of “relevant nuclear installation” in subsection (3), the
reference to a site in England, Wales or Scotland includes a site situated
wholly or partly in or under the territorial sea adjacent to them.

##### Decommissioning of nuclear sites etc

303

303.1

The Nuclear Installations Act 1965 is amended as follows.

303.2

In section 1 (restriction of certain nuclear installations to licensed sites),
after subsection (12) (inserted by  section 302  of this Act) insert—

303.2.13

The reference in subsection (1) to operating a nuclear reactor or an
installation of a prescribed kind includes a reference to decommissioning a
nuclear reactor or such an installation.

303.3

In section 3 (grant and variation of nuclear site licences)—

303.3.a

in subsection (12)(b), for the words from “there” to the end substitute  “the
applicable condition or conditions set out in  section 3A  are met.” ;

303.3.b

after subsection (12) insert—

303.3.b.12A

The appropriate national authority must consult the Health and Safety
Executive before varying a nuclear site licence under subsection (12).

303.4

After section 3 insert—

########### Exclusion of part of site from licence: applicable conditions

303.4.3A

303.4.3A.1

This section sets out the applicable condition or conditions for excluding any
part of a licensed site (“ the relevant part ”) from a nuclear site licence.

303.4.3A.2

Where a prescribed disposal installation is or has at any time been situated
within the relevant part, the applicable condition is that there is no danger
from ionising radiations from anything on the relevant part.

303.4.3A.3

Where any nuclear installation, other than a prescribed disposal installation,
is or has at any time been situated within the relevant part, the applicable
conditions (subject to  subsection (5) ) are that—

303.4.3A.3.a

the use of any such installation within the relevant part has permanently
ceased,

303.4.3A.3.b

appropriate measures for the containment and control of any remaining
radioactivity are in place,

303.4.3A.3.c

the relevant part meets the radioactivity exclusion criteria and the dose
exclusion criteria, and

303.4.3A.3.d

it is no longer necessary or desirable in the interests of safety for a
nuclear site licence to be in force in respect of the relevant part.

303.4.3A.4

In any other case, the applicable conditions (subject to  subsection (5) ) are
that—

303.4.3A.4.a

the relevant part meets the dose exclusion criteria, and

303.4.3A.4.b

it is no longer necessary or desirable in the interests of safety for a
nuclear site licence to be in force in respect of the relevant part.

303.4.3A.5

In a case to which, but for this subsection, subsection  (3)  or  (4)  would
apply, the licensee may elect that the condition set out in  subsection (2)
is to apply to the relevant part (instead of the conditions in subsection  (3)
or  (4) ).

303.4.3A.6

In this section—

      “ 2014 Decision ” means the Decision and Recommendation of the Steering
Committee Concerning the Application of the Paris Convention to Nuclear
Installations in the Process of Being Decommissioned, published on 30 October
2014 by the Steering Committee for Nuclear Energy of the Nuclear Energy Agency
of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development;           “
dose exclusion criteria ” means the criteria described in paragraph 3(b) of
the Appendix to the 2014 Decision;           “ prescribed disposal
installation ” means an installation—         designed or adapted for the
disposal of nuclear matter, and           of a kind prescribed under section
1(1)(b) at any time after  section 303  of the Energy Act 2023 comes into
force;                 “ radioactivity exclusion criteria ” means the criteria
described in paragraph 3(a) of the Appendix to the 2014 Decision;           “
safety ”, in relation to the relevant part of a site, is to be construed in
accordance with section 4(2).

303.5

In section 5 (revocation and surrender of licences)—

303.5.a

in the heading, omit “and surrender”;

303.5.b

in subsection (1)—

303.5.b.i

omit the “or” after paragraph (a);

303.5.b.ii

omit paragraph (b);

303.5.c

in subsection (2), after “consult” insert  “the Health and Safety Executive
and” ;

303.5.d

in subsection (3), omit “or surrendered”;

303.5.e

in subsection (15)(a), for the words from “that in the authority’s opinion” to
the end substitute

—

303.5.e.i

as respects the licensee’s period of responsibility for the licensed site,
that in the authority’s opinion each part of the site meets the condition or
conditions set out in  section 5A  that apply in relation to that part of the
site, or

303.5.e.ii

as respects the licensee’s period of responsibility for any part of the site,
that in the authority’s opinion the part in question meets the condition or
conditions set out in  section 5A  that apply in relation to that part.

;

303.5.f

after subsection (15)(b) insert—

303.5.f.ba

the date when a person (whether the licensee or some other person) becomes the
operator of a relevant disposal site comprising the site in question or, as
the case may be, that part of it;

303.5.f.bb

the date when the site or, as the case may be, the part of it in question
becomes an excluded disposal site;

.

303.6

After section 5 insert—

########### End of period of responsibility: applicable conditions

303.6.5A

303.6.5A.1

This section sets out the applicable condition or conditions for determining
when a licensee’s period of responsibility for a part of a licensed site (“
the relevant part ”) ends under section 5(15)(a)(i) or (ii).

303.6.5A.2

Where a prescribed disposal installation or a licensed disposal site is or has
at any time been situated within the relevant part, the applicable condition
is that there is no danger from ionising radiations from anything on the
relevant part.

303.6.5A.3

Where any nuclear installation, other than a prescribed disposal installation,
is or has at any time been situated within the relevant part, the applicable
conditions (subject to  subsection (5) ) are that—

303.6.5A.3.a

the use of any such installation within the relevant part has permanently
ceased,

303.6.5A.3.b

appropriate measures for the containment and control of any remaining
radioactivity are in place, and

303.6.5A.3.c

the relevant part meets the radioactivity exclusion criteria and the dose
exclusion criteria.

303.6.5A.4

In any other case, the applicable condition (subject to  subsection (5) ) is
that the relevant part meets the dose exclusion criteria.

303.6.5A.5

In a case to which, but for this subsection, subsection  (3)  or  (4)  would
apply, the licensee may elect that the condition set out in subsection  (2)
is to apply to the relevant part (instead of the conditions in subsection  (3)
or  (4) ).

303.6.5A.6

In this section—

      “ 2014 Decision ” means the Decision and Recommendation of the Steering
Committee Concerning the Application of the Paris Convention to Nuclear
Installations in the Process of Being Decommissioned, published on 30 October
2014 by the Steering Committee for Nuclear Energy of the Nuclear Energy Agency
of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development;           “
dose exclusion criteria ” means the criteria described in paragraph 3(b) of
the Appendix to the 2014 Decision;           “ licensed disposal site ” means
a site that would be, or would at any time have been, a relevant disposal site
but for section 7B(5)(a) (nuclear site licence granted in respect of site);
“ prescribed disposal installation ” means an installation—         designed
or adapted for the disposal of nuclear matter, and           of a kind
prescribed under section 1(1)(b) at any time after  section 303  of the Energy
Act 2023 comes into force;                 “ radioactivity exclusion criteria
” means the criteria described in paragraph 3(a) of the Appendix to the 2014
Decision.

303.7

In section 7B (duties in respect of relevant disposal sites)—

303.7.a

after subsection (2) insert—

303.7.a.2A

The operator of a site that would be a relevant disposal site but for
subsection (5)(a) is to be treated for the purposes of subsection (2)(a)(ii)
as becoming the operator of the site on the date when—

303.7.a.2A.a

the nuclear site licence in question is varied under section 3(12) to exclude
the site from it, or

303.7.a.2A.b

the nuclear site licence in question is revoked under section 5(1).

;

303.7.b

in subsection (5)(a), after “granted” insert  “(subject to subsection (5A))” ;

303.7.c

after subsection (5) insert—

303.7.c.5A

Subsection (5)(a) does not apply where a licence has ceased to be in force in
respect of the site as a result of section 3(12) (exclusion of part of site
from licence) or section 5(1) (revocation of licence).

303.8

In section 27(1) (application of Act to Northern Ireland), after paragraph (a)
insert—

303.8.aa

a reference to the Health and Safety Executive is to be construed as a
reference to the Health and Safety Executive for Northern Ireland.

##### Excluded disposal sites

304

304.1

The Nuclear Installations Act 1965 is amended as follows.

304.2

In section 7B (duties in respect of relevant disposal sites)—

304.2.a

after subsection (2A) (inserted by  section 303  of this Act) insert—

304.2.a.2B

The operator of a site that would be a relevant disposal site but for
subsection (7A) is to be treated for the purposes of subsection (2)(a)(ii) as
becoming the operator of the site on the date when the site ceases to be an
excluded disposal site.

;

304.2.b

after subsection (3)(d) insert—

304.2.b.e

the date when the Secretary of State gives notice under  section 7C (1) (b)
that the site is an excluded disposal site.

;

304.2.c

after subsection (3) insert—

304.2.c.3A

Where a site to which  subsection (2B)  applies was a relevant disposal site
before it became an excluded disposal site, subsection (2) has effect in
respect of—

304.2.c.3A.a

the period beginning by virtue of subsection (2)(a), and

304.2.c.3A.b

any further period beginning by virtue of  subsection (2B) .

;

304.2.d

in subsection (4), for “and (7)” substitute  “, (7) and (7A)” ;

304.2.e

after subsection (7) insert—

304.2.e.7A

A site is not a relevant disposal site if it is an excluded disposal site.

;

304.2.f

in subsection (9), in the definition of “appropriate permit”—

304.2.f.i

after paragraph (a) insert—

304.2.f.i.aa

in relation to a site in Scotland, a permit under regulations made under
section 18 of the Regulatory Reform (Scotland) Act 2014 ( 2014 asp 3 )
authorising a person to use the site for the disposal of radioactive waste;

;

304.2.f.ii

in paragraph (b), omit “Scotland or”.

304.3

After section 7B insert—

########### Excluded disposal sites

304.3.7C

304.3.7C.1

A site that is used or intended to be used for the operation of an
installation for the disposal of nuclear matter is an excluded disposal site
if—

304.3.7C.1.a

the Secretary of State is satisfied, on an application by the operator of the
site, that the site meets—

304.3.7C.1.a.i

the permit condition,

304.3.7C.1.a.ii

the site history condition, and

304.3.7C.1.a.iii

such other conditions as may be prescribed, and

304.3.7C.1.b

the Secretary of State gives the operator notice in writing to that effect.

304.3.7C.2

In this section, “ disqualifying matter ” means nuclear matter that exceeds
the radioactivity concentration limits set out in paragraph 3(a) of the
Appendix to the 2016 Decision.

304.3.7C.3

The permit condition is that—

304.3.7C.3.a

an appropriate permit is in force in respect of the site, and

304.3.7C.3.b

that permit includes a condition preventing the site from receiving
disqualifying matter.

304.3.7C.4

The site history condition is that—

304.3.7C.4.a

disqualifying matter has not at any time been accepted for disposal at the
site, or

304.3.7C.4.b

any disqualifying matter previously accepted for disposal at the site has been
removed from the site.

304.3.7C.5

An application under  subsection (1) (a)  must be accompanied by such
documents as may be prescribed.

304.3.7C.6

Regulations made under  subsection (5)  may—

304.3.7C.6.a

specify requirements relating to the preparation, approval or review of a
prescribed document;

304.3.7C.6.b

require an operator to provide a copy of a prescribed document to a person
other than the Secretary of State;

304.3.7C.6.c

make different provision for different purposes.

304.3.7C.7

A site ceases to be an excluded disposal site if the site no longer meets the
permit condition or any condition prescribed under  subsection (1) (a) (iii) .

304.3.7C.8

Where the appropriate permit in force in respect of an excluded disposal site
is transferred to a new operator, the site ceases to be an excluded disposal
site at the end of the period of one month beginning with the date on which
the permit is transferred unless, before the end of that period—

304.3.7C.8.a

the new operator notifies the Secretary of State of the transfer, and

304.3.7C.8.b

the Secretary of State gives the new operator notice in writing that the
Secretary of State consents to the site continuing to be an excluded disposal
site.

304.3.7C.9

The Secretary of State must notify the Scottish Ministers of any notification
given under  subsection (1) (b)  in relation to a site in Scotland.

304.3.7C.10

In this section—

      “ 2016 Decision ” means the Decision and Recommendation Concerning the
Application of the Paris Convention on Third Party Liability in the Field of
Nuclear Energy to Nuclear Installations for the Disposal of Certain Types of
Low-level Radioactive Waste published on 16 January 2017 by the Steering
Committee for Nuclear Energy of the Nuclear Energy Agency of the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development;           “ appropriate permit ”
has the meaning given in section 7B(9).

########### Excluded disposal sites: acceptance of disqualifying matter

304.3.7D

304.3.7D.1

This section applies where disqualifying matter is accepted at an excluded
disposal site; and for the purposes of this section the acceptance of such
matter is referred to as “ the breach ”.

304.3.7D.2

The operator of the site must notify the Secretary of State of the breach
before the end of the notification period.

304.3.7D.3

“ The notification period ” means the period of 21 days beginning with the day
on which the operator becomes aware of the breach.

304.3.7D.4

The site ceases to be an excluded disposal site at the end of the notification
period unless the operator complies with the duty under  subsection (2) .

304.3.7D.5

An operator who has complied with the duty under  subsection (2)  must remove
the disqualifying waste from the site before the end of the removal period.

304.3.7D.6

“ The removal period ” means—

304.3.7D.6.a

the period of 90 days beginning with the day on which the operator notifies
the Secretary of State of the breach, or

304.3.7D.6.b

such longer period as the Secretary of State may specify before the end of the
period mentioned in  paragraph (a)  if satisfied that the operator is taking
all reasonable steps to remove the disqualifying matter from the site.

304.3.7D.7

The site ceases to be an excluded disposal site at the end of the removal
period unless before the end of that period—

304.3.7D.7.a

the Secretary of State is satisfied that the disqualifying waste has been
removed from the site, and

304.3.7D.7.b

the Secretary of State gives the operator notice in writing to that effect.

304.3.7D.8

In this section, “ disqualifying matter ” has the meaning given by  section 7C
.

304.4

In section 20 (furnishing of information relating to operator’s cover), after
subsection (5) insert—

304.4.5A

Subsection (4) does not apply where the operator of a relevant disposal site
makes an application to the Secretary of State under section 7C(1)(a)
(application for site to be excluded disposal site).

304.5

In section 26(1) (interpretation), at the appropriate place insert—

      “ excluded disposal site ” has the meaning given by section 7C;

.

##### Accession to Convention on Supplementary Compensation for Nuclear Damage

305

Schedule 22  contains amendments to the Nuclear Installations Act 1965 to
implement the Convention on Supplementary Compensation for Nuclear Damage.

##### Power to implement Convention on Supplementary Compensation for Nuclear Damage

306

306.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make such provision as the Secretary
of State considers appropriate—

306.1.a

to implement the CSC, or

306.1.b

otherwise for the purposes of dealing with any other matter arising out of, or
related to, the CSC.

306.2

The provision that may be made by virtue of subsection (1) includes provision
that is authorised by the CSC to be made in relation to a particular matter.

306.3

Regulations under this section may amend—

306.3.a

Schedule 22 ,

306.3.b

the Nuclear Installations Act 1965, or

306.3.c

any other enactment having effect in relation to a matter to which the CSC
relates.

306.4

In this section, “ the CSC ” means the Convention on Supplementary
Compensation for Nuclear Damage (as amended or supplemented from time to
time).

306.5

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

#### Civil Nuclear Constabulary

##### Provision of additional police services

307

307.1

After section 55 of the Energy Act 2004 insert—

########### Additional services

############ Provision of additional police services

307.1.55A

307.1.55A.1

The Constabulary may, with the consent of the Secretary of State, provide
additional police services to any person.

307.1.55A.2

In this Chapter, “ additional police services ” means services relating to the
protection of places, persons or materials.

307.1.55A.3

In subsection (2), “ place ” includes—

307.1.55A.3.a

premises, facilities or equipment at a place;

307.1.55A.3.b

any vehicle, vessel, aircraft or hovercraft.

307.1.55A.4

The Secretary of State must not give consent for the purposes of  subsection
(1)  unless satisfied, on an application made by the Police Authority, that—

307.1.55A.4.a

the provision of the additional police services in question is in the
interests of national security,

307.1.55A.4.b

the provision by the Constabulary of those services will not prejudice the
carrying out of its primary function under section 52(2), and

307.1.55A.4.c

it is reasonable in all the circumstances for the Constabulary to provide
those services.

307.1.55A.5

Before giving consent for the purposes of  subsection (1) , the Secretary of
State must consult the chief constable.

307.1.55A.6

The chief constable must ensure that the provision by the Constabulary of
additional police services does not prejudice the carrying out of its primary
function under section 52(2).

307.1.55A.7

Consent given for the purposes of  subsection (1) —

307.1.55A.7.a

must specify the period of time (not exceeding 5 years) for which it has
effect;

307.1.55A.7.b

may, subject to subsections  (8)  and  (9) , be withdrawn at any time if the
Secretary of State is no longer satisfied of the matters mentioned in
subsection (4) .

307.1.55A.8

Where the Secretary of State proposes to withdraw consent given for the
purposes of subsection  (1) , the Secretary of State must consult the Police
Authority.

307.1.55A.9

If, following consultation under subsection  (8) , the Secretary of State
decides to withdraw consent given for the purposes of subsection  (1) , the
Secretary of State must give such notice to the Police Authority as is
reasonably practicable of the date on which the consent will cease to have
effect.

307.1.55A.10

The Police Authority may enter into an agreement with any person for the
provision of additional police services by the Constabulary under this
section.

307.1.55A.11

The Police Authority must publish, as soon as is reasonably practicable and in
such manner as the Authority considers appropriate—

307.1.55A.11.a

the name of any person or persons to whom additional police services are to be
provided under this section, and

307.1.55A.11.b

(subject to subsections  (12)  and  (13) ) such information about the place or
places at which those services are to be provided as the Police Authority
considers may be published without prejudicing the interests of national
security.

307.1.55A.12

The Police Authority must consult the Secretary of State before publishing the
information referred to in  subsection (11) (b) .

307.1.55A.13

The Secretary of State may direct the Police Authority not to publish
information about the place or places at which additional police services are
to be provided where the Secretary of State considers that publication of the
information would prejudice the interests of national security.

307.1.55A.14

The Police Authority must comply with a direction given by the Secretary of
State under  subsection (13) .

307.2

In section 56 of that Act (jurisdiction of Constabulary), after subsection (3)
insert—

307.2.3A

A member of the Constabulary has the powers and privileges of a constable at
every place where additional police services are being provided under  section
55A .

307.3

In section 71(1) of that Act (interpretation), at the appropriate place
insert—

      “ additional police services ” has the meaning given in  section 55A (2)
;

.

307.4

The Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 is amended as follows—

307.4.a

in section 85(2) (costs of policing at gas facilities: England and Wales),
after paragraph (a) omit “or” and insert—

307.4.a.aa

the services of the Civil Nuclear Constabulary provided under  section 55A  of
the Energy Act 2004, or

;

307.4.b

in section 86(2) (costs of policing at gas facilities: Scotland), after
paragraph (a) omit “or” and insert—

307.4.b.aa

the services of the Civil Nuclear Constabulary provided under  section 55A  of
the Energy Act 2004, or

.

##### Provision of assistance to other forces

308

308.1

The Energy Act 2004 is amended as follows.

308.2

After section 55A (inserted by  section 307  of this Act) insert—

########### Provision of assistance to other forces

308.2.55B

308.2.55B.1

The chief constable may, on the application of the chief officer of a relevant
force, provide members of the Constabulary or other assistance for the purpose
of enabling that force to meet any special demand on its resources.

308.2.55B.2

The policing body maintaining a relevant force for which assistance is
provided under this section must pay to the Police Authority such charges—

308.2.55B.2.a

as may be agreed between the policing body and the Police Authority, or

308.2.55B.2.b

in the absence of any such agreement, as may be determined by the Secretary of
State.

308.2.55B.3

The chief constable must ensure that the provision of assistance under this
section does not prejudice the carrying out of the primary function of the
Constabulary under section 52(2).

308.2.55B.4

In this section—

      “ chief officer ” means—         a chief officer of police of a police
force for a police area in England and Wales;           the chief constable of
the Police Service of Scotland;           the chief constable of the British
Transport Police Force; or           the chief constable of the Ministry of
Defence Police;                 “ policing body ” means—         in relation
to a police force for a police area in England and Wales, the relevant local
policing body in the meaning of section 101(1) of the Police Act 1996;
in relation to the Police Service of Scotland, the Scottish Police Authority;
in relation to the British Transport Police Force, the British Transport
Police Authority;           in relation to the Ministry of Defence Police, the
Secretary of State;                 “ relevant force ” means—         a police
force for a police area in England and Wales;           the Police Service of
Scotland;           the British Transport Police Force; or           the
Ministry of Defence Police.

308.3

In section 59 (members of constabulary serving with other forces), after
subsection (3) insert—

308.3.3A

For the purposes of this section, a member of the Constabulary who is provided
for the assistance of a relevant force under  section 55B  is to be treated as
serving with that force under arrangements of the kind mentioned in subsection
(1).

##### Cross-border enforcement powers

309

309.1

Part 10 of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 (cross-border
enforcement) is amended as follows.

309.2

In section 136 (execution of warrants)—

309.2.a

in subsection (1), after “2003” insert  “or under section 55 of the Energy Act
2004” ;

309.2.b

in subsection (2), after “2003” insert  “or under section 55 of the Energy Act
2004” .

309.3

In section 137(2A) (cross-border powers of arrest), after “2003” insert  “or
under section 55 of the Energy Act 2004” .

309.4

In section 137A(5) (additional cross-border powers of arrest: urgent cases),
after “2003” insert  “or under section 55 of the Energy Act 2004” .

309.5

In section 139 (search powers available on arrest)—

309.5.a

in subsection (10A), after “British Transport Police” insert  “or a constable
appointed as a member of the Civil Nuclear Constabulary” ;

309.5.b

in subsection (10C), after “British Transport Police” insert  “or a constable
appointed as a member of the Civil Nuclear Constabulary” .

309.6

In section 140(6A) (reciprocal powers of arrest), after “2003” insert  “or
under section 55 of the Energy Act 2004” .

##### Publication of three-year strategy plan

310

310.1

Schedule 12 to the Energy Act 2004 (planning and reports about Constabulary)
is amended as follows—

310.1.a

in paragraph 3(1)—

310.1.a.i

for “financial year” substitute  “three-year period” ;

310.1.a.ii

for “the three year period beginning with that year” substitute  “that period”
;

310.1.b

for paragraph 3(5) substitute—

310.1.b.5

In sub-paragraph (1), “ three-year period ” means—

310.1.b.5.a

the period of three successive financial years beginning with 1 April 2024,
and

310.1.b.5.b

each subsequent period of three successive financial years.

310.2

In consequence of the amendments made by  subsection (1) —

310.2.a

in section 54(1)(b) of the Energy Act 2004 (functions of senior officers),
omit “most recently”;

310.2.b

in Schedule 12 to that Act—

310.2.b.i

in paragraph 2(3), omit “most recently”;

310.2.b.ii

in paragraph 7(2)(a), omit “most recently issued”.

#### Relevant nuclear pension schemes

##### Civil nuclear industry: amendment of relevant nuclear pension schemes

311

311.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision requiring a
designated person to amend the provisions of a relevant nuclear pension scheme
in respect of which the person is designated—

311.1.a

for the purpose of making scheme-specific changes;

311.1.b

for the purpose of making changes that relate to any scheme-specific changes;

311.1.c

for the purpose of making contribution rate adjustments.

311.2

“ Scheme-specific changes ”, in relation to a relevant nuclear pension scheme,
are changes that—

311.2.a

relate to defined benefits for members of the scheme, and

311.2.b

are in connection with one or more of the matters mentioned in subsection  (3)
.

311.3

Those matters are—

311.3.a

securing that the structure under which the defined benefits in question
accrue is a career average revalued earnings structure (in particular where it
would otherwise be a final salary structure);

311.3.b

providing for other changes to the amounts of such of those defined benefits
as are payable in respect of members of the scheme;

311.3.c

providing for revaluations of pensionable earnings, or of benefits in
deferment or pensions in payment, to be by reference to the consumer prices
index (and not the retail prices index) but not involving imposing a cap on
any revaluation or revaluation rate;

311.3.d

setting percentage rates, for contributions to the scheme by members of the
scheme, that are higher than they would otherwise be;

311.3.e

setting periods for which contributions to the scheme by members of the scheme
are required to be made that are longer than they would otherwise be.

311.4

Amendments made by virtue of subsection  (1) (b)  may include amendments
relating to benefits provided under the scheme other than defined benefits.

311.5

“ Contribution rate adjustments ” means such adjustments—

311.5.a

to the rates of contributions to the scheme by its members in respect of
defined benefits, or

311.5.b

to the salary bands to which such contribution rates apply,

as are considered appropriate by the designated person (acting on actuarial
advice) to ensure that the average contribution rate for members of the scheme
in respect of defined benefits is as close as reasonably practicable to 8.2%.

311.6

Where a person is required by regulations under this section to amend the
provisions of a relevant nuclear pension scheme, the amendments may be made—

311.6.a

free from any consent requirements set out in the scheme, and

311.6.b

notwithstanding provision made by or under any other Act of Parliament, or any
rule of law, that would otherwise prevent or limit, or impose conditions on,
the making of the amendments.

311.7

Amendments made by virtue of subsection  (1) (a) —

311.7.a

must not relate to service prior to the date on which the amendments are made;

311.7.b

may be made in the case of a particular scheme on one occasion only.

311.8

Nothing in this section limits any power that a designated person has to amend
a relevant nuclear pension scheme.

311.9

A person may not be designated in relation to a relevant nuclear pension
scheme unless it appears to the Secretary of State that the person has the
power to amend the scheme.

311.10

In this section, “ designated ” means designated by regulations under this
section.

##### Meaning of “relevant nuclear pension scheme”

312

312.1

In this Chapter, “ relevant nuclear pension scheme ” means—

312.1.a

a pension scheme maintained by or on behalf of the NDA under or by virtue of
section 8(1)(a) or (b) of the Energy Act 2004, or

312.1.b

subject to subsections  (2)  and  (3) , a scheme that provides for the payment
of pensions or other benefits to or in respect of persons who are, or have
been, employed to perform duties relating to matters that correspond or are
similar to matters in respect of which the NDA has functions.

312.2

A scheme of a kind mentioned in subsection  (1) (b)  is a relevant nuclear
pension scheme only to the extent that the pensions or other benefits are
provided in connection with employment by a person with public functions.

312.3

Subsection  (1) (b)  does not apply to—

312.3.a

a UKAEA pension scheme (within the meaning given by paragraph 1(1) of Schedule
8 to the Energy Act 2004);

312.3.b

a scheme that provides for the payment of pensions or other benefits to or in
respect of persons specified in section 1(2) of the Public Service Pensions
Act 2013 (schemes for persons in public service).

312.4

In this section, “ the NDA ” means the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority.

##### Information

313

313.1

This section applies where a person (“ P ”) is required by regulations under
section 311  to amend a relevant nuclear pension scheme.

313.2

P may require a person who holds relevant information to provide it to P.

313.3

“ Relevant information ” means any information or data that P reasonably
requires in connection with deciding whether, or how, to amend the scheme.

313.4

Except as provided by subsection  (5) , the disclosure of information under
this section does not breach—

313.4.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

313.4.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

313.5

This section does not require a disclosure of information if the disclosure
would contravene the data protection legislation (but in determining whether a
disclosure would do so, a requirement imposed under subsection  (2)  is to be
taken into account).

##### Further definitions

314

314.1

This section applies for the purposes of this Chapter.

314.2

References to the amendment of a relevant nuclear pension scheme include
references to the amendment of any one or more of the following—

314.2.a

the trust deed of the scheme, if there is one;

314.2.b

rules of the scheme;

314.2.c

any other instrument relating to the constitution, management or operation of
the scheme.

314.3

References to a relevant nuclear pension scheme include references to any
section into which the scheme is divided.

314.4

A “career average revalued earnings structure” is a structure where—

314.4.a

the pension payable to or in respect of a person, so far as it is based on the
person’s pensionable service, is determined by reference to the person’s
pensionable earnings in each year of pensionable service, and

314.4.b

those earnings, or a proportion of those earnings accrued as a pension, are
under the structure revalued each year until the person leaves pensionable
service.

314.5

“ Consumer prices index ” means—

314.5.a

the general index of consumer prices (for all items) published by the
Statistics Board, or

314.5.b

where that index is not published for a month, any substituted index or
figures published by the Board.

314.6

“Defined benefits” are benefits—

314.6.a

that are not money purchase benefits (within the meaning of the Pension
Schemes Act 1993), and

314.6.b

that are not provided under an injury or compensation scheme (within the
meaning of the Public Service Pensions Act 2013).

314.7

A “final salary structure” is a structure where entitlement to the pension
payable to or in respect of a person which is based on the pensionable service
of that person is or may be determined to any extent by reference to the
person’s final salary; and “final salary” here means the person’s pensionable
earnings, or highest, average or representative pensionable earnings, in a
specified period ending at, or defined by reference to, the time when the
person’s pensionable service in relation to the structure terminates.

314.8

“ Retail prices index ” means—

314.8.a

the general index of retail prices (for all items) published by the Statistics
Board, or

314.8.b

where that index is not published for a month, any substituted index or
figures published by the Board.

##### Application of relevant pensions legislation

315

315.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make—

315.1.a

such provision about the application of relevant pensions legislation in
relation to persons of a specified description, or

315.1.b

such amendments of relevant pensions legislation,

as the Secretary of State considers appropriate for the purposes of or in
connection with the amendment of a relevant nuclear pension scheme in
pursuance of regulations under  section 311 .

315.2

In this section—

      “ relevant pensions legislation ” means—         Schedule 8 to the
Energy Act 2004 (pensions), or           regulations made under Schedule 14 or
15 to the Electricity Act 1989 (the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme etc);
“ specified ” means specified in regulations under subsection  (1) .

##### Procedure for regulations under Chapter 3

316

316.1

Regulations under this Chapter are subject to the affirmative procedure.

316.2

If, apart from this subsection, a draft of an instrument containing
regulations under this Chapter would be treated for the purposes of the
standing orders of either House of Parliament as a hybrid instrument, it is to
proceed in that House as if it were not such an instrument.

#### Great British Nuclear

##### Great British Nuclear: designation, status and objects

###### Great British Nuclear

317

317.1

The Secretary of State may by notice designate a company as Great British
Nuclear.

317.2

A company may be designated under this section only if—

317.2.a

it is limited by shares, and

317.2.b

it is wholly owned by the Crown.

317.3

A notice under  subsection (1) —

317.3.a

must specify the time from which the designation has effect, and

317.3.b

must be published by the Secretary of State as soon as reasonably practicable
after the notice is given.

317.4

The designation of a company terminates—

317.4.a

if it ceases to be wholly owned by the Crown, or

317.4.b

if the Secretary of State revokes its designation by notice.

317.5

A notice under  subsection (4) (b) —

317.5.a

must specify the time from which the revocation has effect, and

317.5.b

must be published by the Secretary of State as soon as reasonably practicable
after the notice is given.

317.6

For the purposes of this section a company is wholly owned by the Crown if
each share in the company is held by—

317.6.a

a Minister of the Crown,

317.6.b

the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority established by section 1 of the Energy
Act 2004,

317.6.c

the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority established by section 1 of the
Atomic Energy Authority Act 1954,

317.6.d

a company which is wholly owned by the Crown, or

317.6.e

a nominee of a person falling within any of paragraphs  (a)  to  (d) .

317.7

A company designated as Great British Nuclear under this section is exempt
from the requirement in section 59 of the Companies Act 2006 (requirement as
to use of “limited” in company name).

317.8

In this section—

      “ company ” means a company registered under the Companies Act 2006;
“ Minister of the Crown ” has the same meaning as in the Ministers of the
Crown Act 1975 (see section 8(1) of that Act).

###### Crown status

318

318.1

Great British Nuclear is not to be regarded as a servant or agent of the Crown
or as enjoying any status, immunity or privilege of the Crown.

318.2

Great British Nuclear’s property is not to be regarded as property of, or
property held on behalf of, the Crown.

###### Great British Nuclear’s objects

319

Great British Nuclear’s objects are to facilitate the design, construction,
commissioning and operation of nuclear energy generation projects for the
purpose of furthering any policies published by His Majesty's government.

##### Financial assistance and directions etc

###### Financial assistance

320

320.1

The Secretary of State may provide financial assistance—

320.1.a

to Great British Nuclear, or

320.1.b

to any other person to facilitate the design, construction, commissioning and
operation of nuclear energy generation projects.

320.2

Financial assistance under this section may be provided in any form and in
particular may be provided—

320.2.a

by way of grant, loan, guarantee or indemnity,

320.2.b

by the acquisition of shares or any other interest in, or securities of, a
body corporate,

320.2.c

by the acquisition of any undertaking or of any assets,

320.2.d

pursuant to a contract, or

320.2.e

by incurring expenditure for the benefit of the person assisted.

320.3

Financial assistance under this section may be provided subject to such
conditions as the Secretary of State considers appropriate, which may include—

320.3.a

conditions about repayment with or without interest or other return, or

320.3.b

conditions with which Great British Nuclear or any recipient of financial
assistance under  subsection (1) (b)  must comply if the financial assistance
is used for—

320.3.b.i

acquiring shares or any other interest in, or securities of, a body corporate,
or

320.3.b.ii

participating in a partnership or joint venture.

320.4

The power to provide financial assistance under this section is in addition to
(and does not limit or replace) any other power of a Minister of the Crown to
provide financial assistance.

320.5

In this section—

      “ Minister of the Crown ” has the same meaning as in the Ministers of
the Crown Act 1975 (see section 8(1) of that Act);           “ partnership ”
means—         a partnership within the meaning of the Partnership Act 1890,
or           a limited partnership within the meaning of the Limited
Partnerships Act 1907.

###### Secretary of State directions and guidance

321

321.1

The Secretary of State may from time to time give Great British Nuclear
directions or guidance.

321.2

Before giving a direction or issuing guidance the Secretary of State must
consult Great British Nuclear and such other persons as the Secretary of State
considers appropriate.

321.3

Directions may be general or particular in character.

321.4

Great British Nuclear must—

321.4.a

comply with any directions given to it under this section, and

321.4.b

have regard to any guidance given to it under this section.

321.5

The Secretary of State must—

321.5.a

publish and lay before Parliament any directions given to Great British
Nuclear under this section, and

321.5.b

publish any guidance given to Great British Nuclear under this section.

##### Annual report and accounts

###### Annual report

322

322.1

Great British Nuclear must, after the end of each reporting year, send a
report to the Secretary of State about the activities it has undertaken during
that year.

322.2

The Secretary of State must lay a copy of the report before Parliament
together with any comments that the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

322.3

In this section “ reporting year ”, in relation to Great British Nuclear,
means a period of 12 months ending with 31 March (but does not include any
period before its designation as Great British Nuclear).

###### Annual accounts

323

323.1

Great British Nuclear must send a copy of its accounts and reports for each
financial year to the Secretary of State before the end of the period for
filing those accounts and reports.

323.2

The Secretary of State must lay a copy of any accounts and reports received
under  subsection (1)  before Parliament.

323.3

In this section—

      “ accounts and reports ”, in relation to Great British Nuclear, means
the annual accounts and reports that Great British Nuclear’s directors must
deliver to the registrar under section 441 of the Companies Act 2006;
“ financial year ”, in relation to Great British Nuclear, means Great British
Nuclear’s financial year determined in accordance with section 390 of the
Companies Act 2006;           “ period for filing ”, in relation to accounts
and reports for a financial year, has the same meaning as in the Companies
Acts (see section 442 of the Companies Act 2006);           “ the registrar ”
has the meaning given by section 1060(3) of the Companies Act 2006.

##### Transfers and pension arrangements etc

###### Transfer schemes

324

324.1

The Secretary of State may make one or more schemes for the transfer of
property, rights and liabilities—

324.1.a

to a GBN body or a proposed GBN body from—

324.1.a.i

a former GBN body;

324.1.a.ii

a GBN body;

324.1.a.iii

a proposed GBN body;

324.1.a.iv

a Minister of the Crown or Crown body;

324.1.a.v

a designated BNFL body;

324.1.a.vi

an NDA body;

324.1.a.vii

a UKAEA body;

324.1.a.viii

a nominee of a person falling within any of sub-paragraphs  (i)  to  (vii) ;

324.1.b

to a former GBN body, a Minister of the Crown or Crown body, a designated BNFL
body or a public body from—

324.1.b.i

a former GBN body;

324.1.b.ii

a GBN body.

324.2

The things that may be transferred under a transfer scheme include—

324.2.a

rights and liabilities relating to a contract of employment;

324.2.b

property, rights and liabilities that could not otherwise be transferred;

324.2.c

property acquired, and rights and liabilities arising, after the making of the
scheme;

324.2.d

criminal liabilities.

324.3

A transfer scheme may—

324.3.a

create rights, or impose liabilities, in relation to property, rights or
liabilities transferred;

324.3.b

make provision about the continuing effect of things done by a transferor in
respect of anything transferred;

324.3.c

make provision about the continuation of things (including legal proceedings)
in the process of being done by, on behalf of or in relation to a transferor
in respect of anything transferred;

324.3.d

make provision for references to a transferor in an instrument or other
document in respect of anything transferred to be treated as references to the
transferee;

324.3.e

make provision for shared ownership or use of the property;

324.3.f

make provision for apportioning property, rights or liabilities;

324.3.g

require a transferor, an associate of a transferor, or a transferee, to enter
into any agreement of any kind, or for a purpose, specified in or determined
in accordance with the scheme;

324.3.h

make provision for transferring property, rights and liabilities irrespective
of any requirement for consent that would otherwise apply;

324.3.i

make provision for preventing a right of pre-emption, right of reverter, right
of forfeiture, right to compensation or other similar right from arising or
becoming exercisable as a result of the transfer of property, rights or
liabilities;

324.3.j

make provision for dispensing with any formality in relation to the transfer
of property, rights or liabilities by the scheme;

324.3.k

make provision for reimbursing any person in respect of expenditure reasonably
incurred by the person in connection with the making of a transfer scheme;

324.3.l

make provision that has the same or similar effect to the TUPE regulations;

324.3.m

make other consequential, supplementary, incidental or transitional provision.

324.4

A transfer scheme may provide—

324.4.a

for modifications by agreement;

324.4.b

for modifications to have effect from the date when the original scheme came
into effect.

324.5

A transfer scheme may make provision requiring a transferor to provide such
co-operation to a transferee as the transferee may reasonably require in
connection with the implementation of the scheme.

324.6

The co-operation that may be required by virtue of  subsection (5)  includes,
in particular, co-operation in relation to—

324.6.a

the provision of information;

324.6.b

consultation with representatives of employees transferred by the scheme.

324.7

Any requirement imposed on a person by a transfer scheme is enforceable by the
Secretary of State in civil proceedings—

324.7.a

for an injunction,

324.7.b

for specific performance of a statutory duty under section 45 of the Court of
Session Act 1988, or

324.7.c

for any other appropriate remedy or relief.

324.8

Before making a transfer scheme, the Secretary of State must consult—

324.8.a

the transferor (or, if there is more than one transferor, the transferors),
and

324.8.b

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

324.9

Subsection (8)  may be satisfied by consultation before the passing of this
Act (as well as by consultation after that time).

324.10

The making of a transfer scheme is not a trigger event for the purposes of the
National Security and Investment Act 2021.

324.11

In this section—

      “ associate ” has the meaning given by section 1152 of the Companies Act
2006;           “ company ” means a company registered under the Companies Act
2006;           “ Crown body ” means any body corporate in which a Minister of
the Crown holds, directly or indirectly, any shares or other interest;
“ designated BNFL body ” means a company designated for the purposes of
Schedule 7 to the Energy Act 2004 or any body corporate in which a company
designated for those purposes holds, directly or indirectly, any shares or
other interest;           “ former GBN body ” means—         a company
formerly designated as Great British Nuclear, or           any body corporate
in which a company formerly designated as Great British Nuclear—
holds, directly or indirectly, any shares or other interest, and
held, directly or indirectly, any shares or other interest, at a time at which
it was designated as Great British Nuclear;                       “ GBN body ”
means Great British Nuclear or any body corporate in which Great British
Nuclear holds, directly or indirectly, any shares or other interest;
“ information ” includes documents;           “ Minister of the Crown ” has
the same meaning as in the Ministers of the Crown Act 1975 (see section 8(1)
of that Act);           “ NDA company ” means the Nuclear Decommissioning
Authority (established by section 1 of the Energy Act 2004) or any body
corporate in which the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority holds, directly or
indirectly, any shares or other interest;           “ proposed GBN body ”
means a company that the Secretary of State proposes to designate as Great
British Nuclear or any body corporate in which a company proposed to be
designated for those purposes holds, directly or indirectly, any shares or
other interest;           “ public body ” means a body established by an
enactment (within the meaning of  Part 1  of this Act) or any body corporate
in which a body established by an enactment holds, directly or indirectly, any
shares or other interest;           “ the TUPE regulations ” means the
Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employment) Regulations 2006 ( S.I.
2006/246 );           “ UKAEA body ” means the United Kingdom Atomic Energy
Authority (established by section 1 of the Atomic Energy Authority Act 1954)
or any body corporate in which the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority
holds, directly or indirectly, any shares or other interest.

###### Transfer schemes: compensation

325

325.1

A scheme under  section 324  may provide for a transferor or any person who
has suffered loss or damage in consequence of the scheme to be entitled to
compensation from the Secretary of State or a transferee under the scheme, in
accordance with provision made by or under the scheme.

325.2

Where a person is entitled to compensation, the amount of compensation is to
be the amount—

325.2.a

agreed by the Secretary of State and the person, or

325.2.b

in the absence of such agreement, determined by an independent valuer.

325.3

An independent valuer appointed for the purposes of  subsection (2)  must be
appointed—

325.3.a

by the Secretary of State and the person, or

325.3.b

in the absence of such agreement, by the Secretary of State on behalf of both
the Secretary of State and the person.

325.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about compensation
under this section that corresponds or is similar to any provision about
compensation that may be made by the Secretary of State by regulations under
paragraph 8 (4)  of  Schedule 9 .

325.5

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

###### Transfer schemes: taxation

326

326.1

The Treasury may by regulations make provision varying the way in which a
relevant tax has effect in relation to—

326.1.a

anything transferred under a scheme under  section 324 , or

326.1.b

anything done for the purposes of, or in relation to, a transfer under such a
scheme.

326.2

The provision that may be made under  subsection (1) (a)  includes, in
particular, provision for—

326.2.a

a tax provision not to apply, or to apply with modifications, in relation to
anything transferred;

326.2.b

anything transferred to be treated in a specified way for the purposes of a
tax provision;

326.2.c

the Secretary of State to be required or permitted to determine, or to specify
the method for determining, anything that needs to be determined for the
purposes of any tax provision so far as relating to anything transferred.

326.3

The provision that may be made under  subsection (1) (b)  includes, in
particular, provision for—

326.3.a

a tax provision not to apply, or to apply with modifications, in relation to
anything done for the purposes of, or in relation to, the transfer;

326.3.b

anything done for the purposes of, or in relation to, the transfer to have or
not have a specified consequence or be treated in a specified way;

326.3.c

the Secretary of State to be required or permitted to determine, or to specify
the method for determining, anything that needs to be determined for the
purposes of any tax provision so far as relating to anything done for the
purposes of, or in relation to, the transfer.

326.4

In this section—

326.4.a

“ relevant tax ” means income tax, corporation tax, capital gains tax, stamp
duty, stamp duty reserve tax, stamp duty land tax or value added tax;

326.4.b

“ tax provision ” means any provision—

326.4.b.i

about a relevant tax, and

326.4.b.ii

made by an enactment (within the meaning of  Part 1  of this Act);

326.4.c

references to the transfer of a property include the grant of the lease.

326.5

A statutory instrument containing regulations under this section is subject to
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of the House of Commons.

###### Transfer schemes: provision of information or assistance

327

327.1

The Secretary of State may direct a person within  subsection (2)  to provide
the Secretary of State with such specified information or assistance as the
Secretary of State may reasonably require in connection with the making of a
scheme under  section 324 .

327.2

A person is within this subsection if—

327.2.a

property, rights or liabilities are likely to be transferred from or to the
person by such a scheme, or

327.2.b

the person is a body corporate that is likely to be transferred under such a
scheme.

327.3

Paragraph  12 (4) ,  (6) ,  (7)  and  (8)  of  Schedule 9  apply to a
direction under this section as they apply to a direction under  sub-paragraph
(1)  of that paragraph.

327.4

In this section—

      “ assistance ” includes assistance provided in a country or territory
other than the United Kingdom;           “ information ” includes documents;
“ specified ” means specified in the direction.

###### Reimbursement and compensation in connection with designation

328

The Secretary of State may reimburse a person in respect of expenditure
reasonably incurred by the person in preparation for or in connection with the
designation of a company under  section 317  (other than any expenditure
incurred in connection with the making of a scheme under section  324 ).

###### Pension arrangements in connection with Great British Nuclear

329

329.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about pension
arrangements in relation to Great British Nuclear that corresponds or is
similar to any provision about pension arrangements in relation to the ISOP
that may be made by the Secretary of State by regulations under  paragraph 2
or  3  of  Schedule 10  (see  paragraph 4  of that Schedule for restrictions
on how the power to make regulations under  paragraph 2  or  3  of that
Schedule may be exercised).

329.2

Before making regulations under  subsection (1)  that make provision
corresponding or similar to the provision that may be made by regulations
under  paragraph 2 (1)  of  Schedule 10 , the Secretary of State must carry
out a consultation corresponding to the consultation required by  paragraph 2
(5)  of that Schedule.

329.3

Before making regulations under  subsection (1)  that make provision
corresponding or similar to the provision that may be made by regulations
under  paragraph 3 (1)  of  Schedule 10 , the Secretary of State must carry
out a consultation corresponding to the consultation required by  paragraph 3
(4)  of that Schedule.

329.4

Subsections  (2)  and  (3)  may be satisfied by consultation before the
passing of this Act (as well as by consultation after that time).

329.5

The Secretary of State may direct a person within  subsection (6)  to provide
the Secretary of State with specified pensions information or such specified
assistance as the Secretary of State may reasonably require in preparation for
or in connection with the exercise of the power conferred on the Secretary of
State by  subsection (1) .

329.6

The following persons are within this subsection—

329.6.a

the trustee of a qualifying pension scheme;

329.6.b

any person who exercises functions on behalf of a person within paragraph (a);

329.6.c

any person who is or has been an employer of a qualifying member of a
qualifying pension scheme.

329.7

Sub-paragraphs  (5)  to  (7)  of  paragraph 5  of  Schedule 10  apply to a
direction given under  subsection (5)  as they apply to a direction given
under  sub-paragraph (1)  of that paragraph.

329.8

The exercise of the power conferred on the Secretary of State by  subsection
(1)  is not a trigger event for the purposes of the National Security and
Investment Act 2021.

329.9

In this section—

      “ pensions information ” means information that—         relates to
pensions or other benefits under a qualifying pension scheme, or
relates to the administration of a qualifying pension scheme in respect of
pensions or other benefits under the scheme;                 “ qualifying
member ”, in relation to a qualifying pension scheme, means a person who is or
has been a member (as defined by section 124(1) of the Pensions Act 1995) of
the scheme;           “ qualifying pension scheme ” means a pension scheme
that provides for the payment of pensions or other benefits to or in respect
of employees or former employees of—         a transferor in relation to a
transfer scheme under  section 324 , or           an associate (as defined by
section 1152 of the Companies Act 2006) of such a transferor;
“ specified ” means specified in the direction.

329.10

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

### General

#### Power to make consequential provision

330

330.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make such provision as the Secretary
of State considers appropriate in consequence of or in connection with—

330.1.a

this Act, other than sections  205  to  208 , or

330.1.b

any provision made under this Act.

330.2

The power to make regulations under subsection  (1)  may (among other things)
be exercised by amending, repealing or revoking—

330.2.a

provision made by or under this Act or by or under primary legislation passed
before, or in the same Session as, this Act;

330.2.b

retained direct EU legislation.

330.3

In this section, “ primary legislation ” means—

330.3.a

an Act,

330.3.b

an Act or Measure of Senedd Cymru,

330.3.c

an Act of the Scottish Parliament, or

330.3.d

Northern Ireland legislation.

330.4

Subject to subsection  (5) , regulations under subsection  (1)  are subject to
the negative procedure.

330.5

Where regulations under subsection  (1)  amend or repeal provision made by
primary legislation, the regulations are subject to the affirmative procedure.

#### Regulations

331

331.1

Regulations under this Act made by the Secretary of State, the Treasury or the
GEMA are to be made by statutory instrument.

331.2

Regulations under this Act may make—

331.2.a

different provision for different purposes or different areas;

331.2.b

supplementary, incidental, consequential, transitional or saving provision.

331.3

Where regulations under this Act are subject to the affirmative procedure,
they may not be made unless a draft of the statutory instrument containing
them has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each House of
Parliament.

331.4

Where regulations under this Act are subject to the negative procedure, the
statutory instrument containing them is subject to annulment in pursuance of a
resolution of either House of Parliament.

331.5

Where regulations under this Act are subject to the made affirmative
procedure, the statutory instrument containing them must be laid before
Parliament after being made.

331.6

Regulations under this Act contained in a statutory instrument laid before
Parliament under  subsection (5)  cease to have effect at the end of the
period of 28 days beginning with the day on which the instrument is made
unless, during that period, the instrument is approved by a resolution of each
House of Parliament.

331.7

In calculating the period of 28 days, no account is to be taken of any whole
days that fall within a period during which—

331.7.a

Parliament is dissolved or prorogued, or

331.7.b

either House of Parliament is adjourned for more than four days.

331.8

If regulations cease to have effect as a result of  subsection (6) , that does
not—

331.8.a

affect the validity of anything previously done under the regulations, or

331.8.b

prevent the making of new regulations.

331.9

Any provision that may be included in regulations under this Act subject to
the negative procedure may be made by regulations subject to the affirmative
procedure or the made affirmative procedure.

331.10

Any provision that may be included in regulations under this Act subject to
the made affirmative procedure may be made by regulations subject to the
affirmative procedure.

#### General definitions

332

In this Act—

      “ the affirmative procedure ” and “the negative procedure” are to be
construed in accordance with section  331 (3)  and  (4)  respectively and “
the made affirmative procedure ” is to be construed in accordance with
section 331 (5) ;           “ the GEMA ” means the Gas and Electricity Markets
Authority.

#### Extent

333

333.1

The following provisions extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern
Ireland, subject to subsection  (5) —

333.1.a

Part 1 , except  Chapter 4 ;

333.1.b

Part 2 ;

333.1.c

Chapter 1  of  Part 4 ;

333.1.d

Chapter 3  of  Part 4 , except sections  155  and  159 ;

333.1.e

section 204 ;

333.1.f

Chapter 1  of  Part 8 , except sections  223  and  224 ;

333.1.g

Parts  10 ,  11 ,  12  and  13 ;

333.1.h

Chapter 1  of  Part 14 ;

333.1.i

section 309 ;

333.1.j

Chapter 3  of  Part 14 ;

333.1.k

this Part .

333.2

The following provisions extend to England and Wales and Scotland only,
subject to subsection  (5) —

333.2.a

Chapter 4  of  Part 1 ;

333.2.b

Part 3 ;

333.2.c

Chapter 2  of  Part 4 ;

333.2.d

section  155 ;

333.2.e

section  159 ;

333.2.f

Parts 5  and  6 ;

333.2.g

Part 7 , except  section 204 ;

333.2.h

section 223 ;

333.2.i

Part 9 ;

333.2.j

Chapter 2  of  Part 14 , except section  309 ;

333.2.k

Chapter 4  of ​ Part 14 ​.

333.3

Chapter 2  of  Part 8  extends to England and Wales only, subject to
subsection  (5) .

333.4

Section  224  extends to Scotland only.

333.5

Any amendment, repeal or revocation has the same extent as the provision
amended, repealed or revoked, subject to  subsection (6) .

333.6

Paragraph 4  of  Schedule 5  extends to England and Wales, Scotland and
Northern Ireland.

#### Commencement

334

334.1

The provisions of this Act come into force on such day or days as the
Secretary of State may by regulations appoint, subject to subsections  (2)  to
(4) .

334.2

The following provisions come into force on the day on which this Act is
passed—

334.2.a

in  Chapter 1  of  Part 2 —

334.2.a.i

section  56 ;

334.2.a.ii

sections  57  and  58 , so far as relating to hydrogen production revenue
support contracts and a hydrogen production counterparty;

334.2.a.iii

sections  65  and  66 ;

334.2.a.iv

section  81 (1)  to  (3) , so far as relating to a designation under section
65;

334.2.a.v

section  83 , so far as relating to hydrogen production revenue support
contracts and a hydrogen production counterparty;

334.2.a.vi

sections  85  and  88 , so far as relating to the exercise of any power that
comes into force in accordance with this paragraph,

and in this paragraph “ hydrogen production revenue support contract ” and “
hydrogen production counterparty ” have the same meaning as in that Chapter;

334.2.b

section  129 ;

334.2.c

Chapter 1  of  Part 4 ;

334.2.d

section  154 ;

334.2.e

section  157 ;

334.2.f

section  158 ;

334.2.g

section  159 ;

334.2.h

in  Part 5 —

334.2.h.i

sections  169  and  170 ;

334.2.h.ii

section  174  (including  Schedule 9 ) and section  175  (including  Schedule
10 );

334.2.h.iii

section  178 (2)  and  (3) , so far as relating to other provisions in force
by virtue of this paragraph;

334.2.h.iv

sections  180  and  181 ;

334.2.i

section  203  (including  Schedule 15 );

334.2.j

section 204  (including  Schedule 16 );

334.2.k

section  215 ;

334.2.l

Part 8 ;

334.2.m

Part 11 , except sections  264  and  265 ;

334.2.n

sections  307 ,  308  and  309 ;

334.2.o

Chapters  3  and  4  of  Part 14 ;

334.2.p

this Part.

334.3

The following provisions come into force at the end of the period of 2 months
beginning with the day on which this Act is passed—

334.3.a

Part 1 ;

334.3.b

Chapters  1  to  3 ,  5  and  6  of  Part 2 , so far as not already in force
by virtue of subsection  (2) ;

334.3.c

Part 3 ;

334.3.d

section  153 ;

334.3.e

section  155 ;

334.3.f

section  160 ;

334.3.f

section 202 ;

334.3.g

sections  211  to  214 ;

334.3.h

Part 10 ;

334.3.i

sections  264  and  265 ;

334.3.j

Chapter  1  of Part  13 ;

334.3.k

section 306 .

334.4

Section 305  (including  Schedule 22 ) comes into force on the day on which
the Convention on Supplementary Compensation for Nuclear Damage comes into
force in respect of the United Kingdom.

334.5

The Secretary of State must publish a notice of the date of that day as soon
as possible afterwards.

334.6

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may appoint different days for different
purposes or areas.

334.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations make transitional, transitory or
saving provision in connection with the coming into force of any provision of
this Act.

#### Short title

335

This Act may be cited as the Energy Act 2023.

## Schedules

  Interim power of Secretary of State to grant licences

Section 16

1

1.1

Sections  7  to  12  are to have effect with the following modifications until
the end of the interim period.

1.2

In this Schedule “ the interim period ” means the period beginning when this
Schedule comes into force and ending with whatever day the Secretary of State
specifies by regulations.

1.3

Regulations under this paragraph are subject to the negative procedure.

2

In  section 7  (power to grant licences)—

2.a

in  subsection (1)  for “economic regulator” substitute  “Secretary of State”
;

2.b

after  subsection (2)  insert—

2.b.3

As soon as practicable after granting a licence, the Secretary of State must
send a copy of the licence to the economic regulator.

`

3

In  section 9  (procedure for licence applications)—

3.a

in  subsection (1) , in the words before paragraph (a), for “Secretary of
State, or the economic regulator with the approval of the Secretary of State,”
substitute  “Secretary of State” ;

3.b

in  subsection (4) , for “economic regulator”, in each place it occurs,
substitute  “Secretary of State” ;

3.c

for  subsection (5)  substitute—

3.c.5

A notice under  subsection (4)  must be given by—

3.c.5.a

sending a copy of the notice to the economic regulator and any appropriate
devolved authority, and

3.c.5.b

publishing the notice in such manner as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate for bringing it to the attention of persons likely to be affected
by the grant of the licence.

3.d

after subsection (10) insert—

3.d.10A

For the purposes of  subsection (5) , the “appropriate devolved authorities”
are—

3.d.10A.a

the Scottish Ministers, if provision granting the licence in question would be
within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if it were
contained in an Act of that Parliament;

3.d.10A.b

the Welsh Ministers, if provision granting the licence in question would be
within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it were contained in an
Act of the Senedd (ignoring any requirement for the consent of a Minister of
the Crown imposed under Schedule 7B to the Government of Wales Act 2006);

3.d.10A.c

the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, if provision granting the
licence in question—

3.d.10A.c.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
it were contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

3.d.10A.c.ii

would not, if it were contained in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State under
section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998.

4

In  section 12  (standard conditions of licences)—

4.a

in  subsection (7) (b)  omit “and the Secretary of State”;

4.b

omit  subsection (9) .

Procedure for appeals under section  20

Section 21

##### Application for permission to bring appeal

1

1.1

An application for permission to bring an appeal may be made—

1.1.a

only by sending a notice to the CMA requesting the permission, and

1.1.b

only by a person entitled under  section 20  to bring the appeal if permission
is granted.

1.2

Where the economic regulator publishes a decision to modify the conditions of
any licence under  section 13 (8) , any application for permission to appeal
is not to be made after the end of 20 working days beginning with the first
working day after the day on which the decision is published.

1.3

An application for permission to appeal must be accompanied by all such
information as may be required by appeal rules.

1.4

Appeal rules may require information contained in an application for
permission to appeal to be verified by a statement of truth.

1.5

A person who applies for permission to bring an appeal in accordance with this
paragraph is referred to in this Schedule as the appellant.

1.6

The appellant must send the economic regulator—

1.6.a

a copy of the application for permission to appeal at the same time as it is
sent to the CMA, and

1.6.b

such other information as may be required by appeal rules.

1.7

The CMA’s decision whether to grant permission to appeal is to be taken by an
authorised member of the CMA.

1.8

Before the authorised member decides whether to grant permission under this
paragraph, the economic regulator must be given an opportunity to make
representations or observations, in accordance with  paragraph 3 (2) .

1.9

The CMA’s decision on an application for permission must be made—

1.9.a

where the economic regulator makes representations or observations in
accordance with  paragraph 3 (2) , before the end of 10 working days beginning
with the first working day after the day on which those representations or
observations are received;

1.9.b

in any other case, before the end of 14 working days beginning with the first
working day after the day on which the application for permission is received.

1.10

The grant of permission may be made subject to conditions, which may include—

1.10.a

conditions which limit the matters that are to be considered on the appeal in
question,

1.10.b

conditions for the purpose of expediting the determination of the appeal, and

1.10.c

conditions requiring that appeal to be considered together with other appeals
(including appeals relating to different matters or decisions and appeals
brought by different persons).

1.11

Where a decision is made to grant or to refuse an application for permission,
an authorised member of the CMA must notify the decision, giving reasons—

1.11.a

to the appellant, and

1.11.b

to the economic regulator.

1.12

A decision of the CMA under this paragraph must be published, in such manner
as an authorised member of the CMA considers appropriate, as soon as
reasonably practicable after it is made.

1.13

Section  25 (2)  applies to the publication of a decision under  sub-paragraph
(12)  as it does to the publication of a decision under  section 25 .

##### Suspension of decision

2

2.1

The CMA may direct that, pending the determination of an appeal against a
decision of the economic regulator—

2.1.a

the decision is not to have effect, or

2.1.b

the decision is not to have effect to such extent as may be specified in the
direction.

2.2

The power to give a direction under this paragraph is exercisable only where—

2.2.a

an application for its exercise has been made by the appellant at the same
time that the appellant made an application (in accordance with  paragraph 1 )
for permission to bring an appeal against a decision of the economic
regulator;

2.2.b

the economic regulator has been given an opportunity of making representations
or observations, in accordance with  paragraph 3 (2) ;

2.2.c

a person bringing the appeal who falls within  section 20 (2) (a)  or (b)
would incur significant costs if the decision were to have effect before the
determination of the appeal, and

2.2.d

the balance of convenience does not otherwise require effect to be given to
the decision pending that determination.

2.3

The CMA’s decision on an application for a direction under this paragraph must
be made—

2.3.a

where the economic regulator makes representations or observations in
accordance with  paragraph 3 (2)  before the end of 10 working days beginning
with the first working day after the day on which those representations or
observations are received;

2.3.b

in any other case, before the end of 14 working days beginning with the first
working day following the day on which the application under  sub-paragraph
(2) (a)  is received.

2.4

The appellant must send the economic regulator a copy of the application for a
direction under this paragraph at the same time as it is sent to the CMA.

2.5

The CMA’s decision whether to give a direction is to be taken by an authorised
member of the CMA.

2.6

A direction under this paragraph must be—

2.6.a

given by an authorised member of the CMA, and

2.6.b

published, in such manner as an authorised member of the CMA considers
appropriate, as soon as reasonably practicable after it is given.

2.7

Section  25 (2)  applies to the publication of a direction under  sub-
paragraph (6)  as it does to the publication of a decision under  section 25 .

##### Time limit for representations and observations by the economic regulator

3

3.1

Sub-paragraph  (2)  applies where the economic regulator wishes to make
representations or observations to the CMA in relation to—

3.1.a

an application for permission to bring an appeal under  paragraph 1 ;

3.1.b

an application for a direction under  paragraph 2 .

3.2

The economic regulator must make the representations or observations in
writing before the end of 10 working days beginning with the first working day
after the day on which it received a copy of the application under  paragraph
1 (6)  or  2 (4)  as the case may be.

3.3

Sub-paragraph  (4)  applies where an application for permission to bring an
appeal has been granted and the economic regulator wishes to make
representations or observations to the CMA in relation to—

3.3.a

the economic regulator’s reasons for the decision in relation to which the
appeal is being brought, or

3.3.b

any grounds on which that appeal is being brought against that decision.

3.4

The economic regulator must make the representations or observations in
writing before the end of 15 working days beginning with the first working day
after the day on which permission to bring the appeal was granted.

3.5

The economic regulator must send a copy of the representations and
observations it makes under this paragraph to the appellant.

##### Determination of matter on appeal

4

4.1

A group constituted by the chair of the CMA under Schedule 4 to the Enterprise
and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 for the purpose of carrying out functions of
the CMA with respect to an appeal under  section 20  must consist of three
members of the CMA panel.

4.2

A decision of the group is effective if, and only if—

4.2.a

all the members of the group are present when it is made, and

4.2.b

at least two members of the group are in favour of the decision.

##### Matters to be considered on appeal

5

5.1

The CMA, if it thinks it necessary to do so for the purpose of securing the
determination of an appeal within the period provided for by  section 24 , may
disregard—

5.1.a

any or all matters raised by an appellant that were not raised by that
appellant at the time of the relevant application, and

5.1.b

any or all matters raised by the economic regulator that were not contained in
representations or observations made for the purposes of the appeal in
accordance with  paragraph 3 .

5.2

In this paragraph “ relevant application ” means an application under
paragraph 1  or  2 .

##### Production of documents

6

6.1

For the purposes of this Schedule, the CMA may by notice require—

6.1.a

a person to produce to the CMA the documents specified or otherwise identified
in the notice;

6.1.b

any person who carries on a business to supply to the CMA such estimates,
forecasts, returns or other information as may be specified or described in
the notice in relation to that business.

6.2

The power to require the production of a document, or the supply of any
estimate, forecast, return or other information, is a power to require its
production or, as the case may be, supply—

6.2.a

at the time and place specified in the notice, and

6.2.b

in a legible form.

6.3

No person is to be compelled under this paragraph to produce a document or
supply an estimate, forecast, return or other information that the person
could not be compelled to produce in civil proceedings in the High Court or
Court of Session.

6.4

An authorised member of the CMA may, for the purpose of the exercise of the
functions of the CMA, make arrangements for copies to be taken of a document
produced or an estimate, forecast, return or other information supplied under
this paragraph.

6.5

A notice for the purposes of this paragraph—

6.5.a

may be issued on the CMA’s behalf by an authorised member of the CMA;

6.5.b

must include information about the possible consequences of not complying with
the notice (as set out in  paragraph 10 ).

##### Oral hearings

7

7.1

For the purposes of this Schedule an oral hearing may be held, and evidence
may be taken on oath—

7.1.a

by a person considering an application for permission to bring an appeal under
paragraph 1,

7.1.b

by a person considering an application for a direction under paragraph 2, or

7.1.c

by a group with the function of determining an appeal;

and, for that purpose, such a person or group may administer oaths.

7.2

The CMA may by notice require a person—

7.2.a

to attend at a time and place specified in the notice, and

7.2.b

at that time and place, to give evidence to a person or group mentioned in
sub-paragraph (1) .

7.3

At any oral hearing the person or group conducting the hearing may require—

7.3.a

the appellant, or the economic regulator, if present at the hearing to give
evidence or to make representations or observations, or

7.3.b

a person attending the hearing as a representative of the appellant or of the
economic regulator to make representations or observations.

7.4

A person who gives oral evidence at the hearing may be cross-examined by or on
behalf of any party to the appeal.

7.5

If the appellant, the economic regulator, or the economic regulator’s
representative is not present at a hearing—

7.5.a

there is no requirement to give notice to that person under  sub-paragraph (2)
, and

7.5.b

the person or group conducting the hearing may determine the application or
appeal without hearing that person’s evidence, representations or
observations.

7.6

No person is to be compelled under this paragraph to give evidence which that
person could not be compelled to give in civil proceedings in the High Court
or Court of Session.

7.7

Where a person is required under this paragraph to attend at a place more than
10 miles from that person’s place of residence, an authorised member of the
CMA must arrange for that person to be paid the necessary expenses of
attendance.

7.8

A notice for the purposes of this paragraph may be issued on the CMA’s behalf
by an authorised member of the CMA.

##### Written statements

8

8.1

The CMA may by notice require a person to produce a written statement with
respect to a matter specified in the notice to—

8.1.a

a person who is considering, or is to consider, an application for a direction
under paragraph 2, or

8.1.b

a group with the function of determining an appeal.

8.2

The power to require the production of a written statement includes power—

8.2.a

to specify the time and place at which it is to be produced, and

8.2.b

to require it to be verified by a statement of truth, and a statement required
to be so verified must be disregarded unless it is so verified.

8.3

No person is to be compelled under this paragraph to produce a written
statement with respect to any matter about which that person could not be
compelled to give evidence in civil proceedings in the High Court or Court of
Session.

8.4

A notice for the purposes of this paragraph may be issued on the CMA’s behalf
by an authorised member of the CMA.

##### Expert advice

9

Where permission to bring an appeal is granted under  paragraph 1  the CMA may
commission expert advice with respect to any matter raised by a party to that
appeal.

##### Defaults in relation to evidence

10

10.1

If a person (“ the defaulter ”)—

10.1.a

fails to comply with a notice issued or other requirement imposed under
paragraph 6 ,  7  or  8 ,

10.1.b

in complying with a notice under  paragraph 8 , makes a statement that is
false in any material particular, or

10.1.c

in providing information verified in accordance with a statement of truth
required by appeal rules, provides information that is false in a material
particular,

an authorised member of the CMA may certify the failure, or the fact that such
a false statement has been made or such false information has been given, to
the High Court or the Court of Session.

10.2

The High Court or Court of Session may inquire into a matter certified to it
under this paragraph, and if, after having heard—

10.2.a

any witness against or on behalf of the defaulter, and

10.2.b

any statement in that defaulter’s defence,

it is satisfied that the defaulter did, without reasonable excuse, fail to
comply with the notice or other requirement, or made the false statement, or
gave the false information, that court may punish that defaulter as if the
person had been guilty of contempt of court.

10.3

Where the High Court or Court of Session has power under this paragraph to
punish a body corporate for contempt of court, it may so punish any director
or other officer of that body (either instead of or as well as punishing the
body).

10.4

A person who wilfully alters, suppresses or destroys a document which that
person has been required to produce under  paragraph 6  is guilty of an
offence and is to be liable—

10.4.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

10.4.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

10.4.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

10.4.d

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years
or a fine (or both).

##### Costs or expenses

11

11.1

A group that determines an appeal must make an order requiring the payment to
the CMA of the costs or expenses incurred by the CMA in connection with the
appeal.

11.2

An order under  sub-paragraph (1)  must require those costs or expenses to be
paid—

11.2.a

where the appeal is allowed in full, by the economic regulator;

11.2.b

where the appeal is dismissed in full, by the appellant;

11.2.c

where the appeal is partially allowed, by one or more parties in such
proportions as the CMA considers appropriate in all the circumstances.

11.3

The group that determines an appeal may also make such order as it thinks fit
for requiring a party to the appeal to make payments to another party in
respect of costs or expenses reasonably incurred by that other party in
connection with the appeal.

11.4

A person who is required by an order under this paragraph to pay a sum to
another person must comply with the order before the end of 28 days beginning
with the day after the making of the order.

11.5

Sums required to be paid by an order under this paragraph but not paid within
the period mentioned in  sub-paragraph (4)  are to bear interest at such rate
as may be determined in accordance with provision contained in the order.

11.6

Any costs or expenses payable by virtue of an order under this paragraph and
any interest that has not been paid may be recovered as a civil debt by the
person in whose favour that order is made.

##### Appeal rules

12

12.1

The CMA Board may make rules of procedure regulating the conduct and disposal
of appeals under  section 20 .

12.2

Those rules may include provision supplementing the provisions of this
Schedule in relation to any application, notice, hearing, power or requirement
for which this Schedule provides, and that provision may, in particular,
impose time limits or other restrictions on—

12.2.a

the taking of evidence at an oral hearing, or

12.2.b

the making of representations or observations at such a hearing.

12.3

The CMA Board must publish rules made under this paragraph in such manner as
it considers appropriate for the purpose of bringing them to the attention of
those likely to be affected by them.

12.4

Before making rules under this paragraph, the CMA Board must consult such
persons as it considers appropriate.

12.5

Rules under this paragraph may make different provision for different cases.

##### Interpretation of Schedule

13

13.1

In this Schedule—

“ appeal ” means an appeal under  section 20 ; “ appeal rules ” means rules of
procedure under  paragraph 12 ; “ authorised member of the CMA ”— in relation
to a power exercisable in connection with an appeal in respect of which a
group has been constituted by the chair of the CMA under Schedule 4 to the
Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013, means a member of that group who
has been authorised by the chair of the CMA to exercise that power; in
relation to a power exercisable in connection with an application for
permission to bring an appeal, or otherwise in connection with an appeal in
respect of which a group has not been so constituted by the chair of the CMA,
means— any member of the CMA Board who is also a member of the CMA panel, or
any member of the CMA panel authorised by the Secretary of State (whether
generally or specifically) to exercise the power in question; “ CMA Board ”
and “CMA panel” have the same meaning as in Schedule 4 to the Enterprise and
Regulatory Reform Act 2013; “ statement of truth ”, in relation to the
production of a statement or provision of information by a person, means a
statement that the person believes the facts stated in the statement or
information to be true; “ working day ” means any day other than— Saturday or
Sunday; Christmas Day or Good Friday; a day which is a bank holiday in England
and Wales or Scotland under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971.

13.2

References in this Schedule to a party to an appeal are references to—

13.2.a

the appellant, or

13.2.b

the economic regulator.

Enforcement of obligations of licence holders

Section  32

##### Orders for securing compliance with certain provisions

1

1.1

Where the economic regulator is satisfied that a licence holder is
contravening, or is likely to contravene, any relevant condition or
requirement, the economic regulator must make an order (a “final order”)
containing such provision as appears to the economic regulator to be necessary
for the purpose of securing compliance with that condition or requirement (but
this sub-paragraph does not apply if the economic regulator is required by
sub-paragraph (2)  to make a provisional order in respect of the contravention
or likely contravention).

1.2

Where it appears to the economic regulator—

1.2.a

that a licence holder is contravening, or is likely to contravene, any
relevant condition or requirement, and

1.2.b

that it is appropriate to make an order under this sub-paragraph,

the economic regulator must (instead of taking steps towards the making of a
final order) make an order (a “provisional order”) containing such provision
as appears to the economic regulator to be necessary for the purpose of
securing compliance with that condition or requirement.

1.3

In determining for the purposes of sub-paragraph  (2) (b)  whether it is
appropriate to make a provisional order, the economic regulator must have
regard, in particular, to the extent to which any person is likely to sustain
loss or damage in consequence of anything that is likely to be done (or
omitted to be done) in contravention of the relevant condition or requirement
before a final order may be made.

1.4

The economic regulator must confirm a provisional order, with or without
modifications, if—

1.4.a

the economic regulator is satisfied that the licence holder is contravening,
or is likely to contravene, any relevant condition or requirement, and

1.4.b

the provision made by the order (with any modifications) is necessary for the
purpose of securing compliance with that condition or requirement.

1.5

If a provisional order is not previously confirmed under sub-paragraph  (4) ,
it is to cease to have effect at the end of such period (not exceeding three
months) as is determined by or under the order.

1.6

Sub-paragraphs  (1)  to  (4)  are subject to sub-paragraphs  (7)  to  (9)  and
paragraph 2 .

1.7

The economic regulator—

1.7.a

must, before making a final order or making or confirming a provisional order,
consider whether it would be more appropriate to proceed under the Competition
Act 1998 (see  section 37 );

1.7.b

must not make a final order, or make or confirm a provisional order, if the
economic regulator considers that it would be more appropriate to proceed
under that Act.

1.8

The economic regulator may not make a final order or make or confirm a
provisional order if the economic regulator is satisfied that the duties
imposed on the economic regulator by  section 1  preclude the making or, as
the case may be, the confirmation of the order.

1.9

The economic regulator is not required to make a final order or make or
confirm a provisional order if it is satisfied—

1.9.a

that the licence holder has agreed to take and is taking all such steps as
appear to the economic regulator to be for the time being appropriate for the
purpose of securing or facilitating compliance with the condition or
requirement in question, or

1.9.b

that the contraventions were, or the apprehended contraventions are, of a
trivial nature.

1.10

Where the economic regulator decides that it would be more appropriate to
proceed under the Competition Act 1998 or is satisfied as mentioned in sub-
paragraphs  (8)  and  (9) , the economic regulator must—

1.10.a

give notice to the licence holder that the economic regulator has so decided
or is so satisfied, and

1.10.b

publish a copy of the notice in such manner as the economic regulator
considers appropriate for the purpose of bringing the matters to which the
notice relates to the attention of persons likely to be affected by them.

1.11

A final or provisional order—

1.11.a

must require the licence holder (according to the circumstances of the case)
to do, or not to do, such things as are specified in the order or are of a
description so specified,

1.11.b

must take effect at such time as is determined by or under the order, which
must be the earliest practicable time, and

1.11.c

may be revoked at any time by the economic regulator.

1.12

In this Schedule—

“ final order ” means an order under  sub-paragraph (1) ; “ provisional order
” means an order under  sub-paragraph (2) ; “ relevant condition ”, in
relation to a licence holder, means any condition of any licence (as defined
in  section 7 ) held by that person; “ relevant requirement ”, in relation to
a licence holder, means any requirement imposed on the licence holder by or
under this Part.

##### Procedural requirements

2

2.1

Before making a final order or confirming a provisional order, the economic
regulator must give notice—

2.1.a

stating that the economic regulator proposes to make or confirm the order and
setting out its effect,

2.1.b

stating—

2.1.b.i

the relevant condition or requirement,

2.1.b.ii

the acts or omissions which, in the economic regulator’s opinion, constitute
or would constitute contraventions of it, and

2.1.b.iii

the other facts which, in the economic regulator’s opinion, justify the making
or confirmation of the order, and

2.1.c

specifying the time (which must not be less than 21 days from the date of
publication of the notice) within which representations or objections to the
proposed order or confirmation of the order may be made,

and must consider any representations or objections which are duly made and
not withdrawn.

2.2

A notice under  sub-paragraph (1)  is given—

2.2.a

by publishing the notice in such manner as the economic regulator considers
appropriate for the purpose of bringing the matters to which the notice
relates to the attention of persons likely to be affected by them, and

2.2.b

by sending a copy of the notice, and a copy of the proposed order or of the
order proposed to be confirmed, to the licence holder.

2.3

The economic regulator must not make a final order with modifications, or
confirm a provisional order with modifications, except with the consent of the
licence holder or after complying with the requirements of  sub-paragraph (4)
.

2.4

The requirements are that the economic regulator must—

2.4.a

give to the licence holder such notice as the economic regulator considers
necessary of the economic regulator’s proposal to make or confirm the order
with modifications,

2.4.b

specify the time (which must not be less than 21 days from the date of the
service of the notice) within which representations or objections to the
proposed modifications may be made, and

2.4.c

consider any representations or objections which are duly made and not
withdrawn.

2.5

Where the economic regulator decides to proceed under the Competition Act 1998
in a case falling within  paragraph 1 (7) (b) , the economic regulator must—

2.5.a

inform the licence holder concerned of that decision, and

2.5.b

publish the notice in a manner that the economic regulator thinks appropriate
for bringing the notice to the attention of persons likely to be affected by
the decision.

2.6

Before revoking a final order or a provisional order which has been confirmed,
the economic regulator must give notice—

2.6.a

stating that the economic regulator proposes to revoke the order and setting
out its effect, and

2.6.b

specifying the time (which must not be less than 28 days) from the date of
publication of the notice within which representations or objections to the
proposed revocation may be made,

and must consider any representations or objections which are duly made and
not withdrawn.

2.7

A notice under  sub-paragraph (6)  is given—

2.7.a

by publishing the notice in such manner as the economic regulator considers
appropriate for the purpose of bringing the matters to which the notice
relates to the attention of persons likely to be affected by them, and

2.7.b

by sending a copy of the notice to the licence holder.

2.8

As soon as practicable after a final order is made or a provisional order is
made or confirmed, the economic regulator must—

2.8.a

serve a copy of the order on the licence holder, and

2.8.b

publish such a copy in such manner as the economic regulator considers
appropriate for the purpose of bringing the order to the attention of persons
likely to be affected by it.

##### Validity and effect of orders

3

3.1

If the licence holder is aggrieved by a final or provisional order and wishes
to question its validity on the ground that the making or confirmation of it
was not within the powers of  paragraph 1 , or that any of the requirements of
paragraph 2  have not been complied with in relation to it, the licence holder
may within 42 days from the date of service on the licence holder of a copy of
the order make an application to the court under this paragraph.

3.2

On any such application the court, if satisfied that the making or
confirmation of the order was not within those powers or that the interests of
the licence holder have been substantially prejudiced by a failure to comply
with those requirements, may quash the order or any provision of the order.

3.3

Except as provided by this paragraph, the validity of a final or provisional
order may not be questioned by any legal proceedings whatever.

3.4

The obligation to comply with a final or provisional order is a duty owed to
any person who may be affected by a contravention of it.

3.5

Where a duty is owed by virtue of sub-paragraph  (4)  to any person any breach
of the duty which causes that person to sustain loss or damage is to be
actionable at the suit or instance of that person.

3.6

In any proceedings brought against any person in pursuance of  sub-paragraph
(5) , it is a defence for the person to prove that they took all reasonable
steps and exercised all due diligence to avoid contravening the order.

3.7

Without prejudice to any right which any person may have by virtue of  sub-
paragraph (5)  to bring civil proceedings in respect of any contravention or
apprehended contravention of a final or provisional order, compliance with any
such order is to be enforceable by civil proceedings by the economic regulator
for an injunction or interdict or for any other appropriate relief.

3.8

In this paragraph “ the court ” means—

3.8.a

in relation to England and Wales and Northern Ireland, the High Court;

3.8.b

in relation to Scotland, the Court of Session.

##### Penalties

4

4.1

Where the economic regulator is satisfied that a licence holder has
contravened or is contravening any relevant condition or requirement, the
economic regulator may, subject to  paragraph 6 , impose on the licence holder
a penalty of such amount as is reasonable in all the circumstances of the
case.

4.2

Before imposing a penalty on a licence holder under  sub-paragraph (1) , the
economic regulator must consider whether it would be more appropriate to
proceed under the Competition Act 1998.

4.3

The economic regulator must not impose a penalty on a licence holder under
sub-paragraph (1)  if it considers that it would be more appropriate to
proceed under the Competition Act 1998.

4.4

Before imposing a penalty on a licence holder under  sub-paragraph (1)  the
economic regulator must give notice—

4.4.a

stating that it proposes to impose a penalty and the amount of the penalty
proposed to be imposed,

4.4.b

setting out the relevant condition or requirement,

4.4.c

specifying the acts or omissions which, in the opinion of the economic
regulator, constitute the contravention in question and the other facts which,
in the opinion of the economic regulator, justify the imposition of a penalty
and the amount of the penalty proposed, and

4.4.d

specifying the period (which must not be less than 21 days from the date of
publication of the notice) within which representations or objections with
respect to the proposed penalty may be made,

and must consider any representations or objections which are duly made and
not withdrawn.

4.5

Before varying any proposal stated in a notice under sub-paragraph  (4) (a)
the economic regulator must give notice—

4.5.a

setting out the proposed variation and the reasons for it, and

4.5.b

specifying the period (which must be at least 21 days from the date of
publication of the notice) within which representations or objections with
respect to the proposed variation may be made,

and must consider any representations or objections which are duly made and
not withdrawn.

4.6

As soon as practicable after imposing a penalty, the economic regulator must
give notice—

4.6.a

stating that it has imposed a penalty on the licence holder and its amount,

4.6.b

setting out the relevant condition or requirement in question,

4.6.c

specifying the acts or omissions which, in the opinion of the economic
regulator, constitute the contravention in question and the other facts which,
in the opinion of the economic regulator, justify the imposition of the
penalty and its amount, and

4.6.d

specifying a date, no earlier than the end of the period of 42 days from the
date of service of the notice on the licence holder, by which the penalty is
required to be paid.

4.7

The licence holder may, within 21 days of the date of service on the licence
holder of a notice under  sub-paragraph (6) , make an application to the
economic regulator for it to specify different dates by which different
portions of the penalty are to be paid.

4.8

Any notice required to be given under this paragraph must be given—

4.8.a

by publishing the notice in such manner as the economic regulator considers
appropriate for the purpose of bringing the matters to which the notice
relates to the attention of persons likely to be affected by them, and

4.8.b

by serving a copy of the notice on the licence holder.

4.9

This paragraph is subject to  paragraph 10  (maximum amount of penalty that
may be imposed).

4.10

Any sums received by the economic regulator by way of penalty under this
paragraph must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

##### Statement of policy with respect to penalties

5

5.1

The economic regulator must prepare and publish a statement of policy with
respect to the imposition of penalties and the determination of their amount.

5.2

In deciding whether to impose a penalty, and in determining the amount of any
penalty, in respect of a contravention the economic regulator must have regard
to its statement of policy most recently published at the time when the
contravention occurred.

5.3

The economic regulator may revise its statement of policy and where it does so
must publish the revised statement.

5.4

Publication under this paragraph must be in such manner as the economic
regulator considers appropriate for the purpose of bringing the matters
contained in the statement of policy to the attention of persons likely to be
affected by them.

5.5

The economic regulator must undertake such consultation as it considers
appropriate when preparing or revising its statement of policy.

##### Time limits on the imposition of penalties

6

6.1

Where no final or provisional order has been made in relation to a
contravention, the economic regulator may not impose a penalty in respect of
the contravention later than the end of the period of five years from the time
of the contravention, unless before the end of that period—

6.1.a

the notice under  paragraph 4 (4)  relating to the penalty is served on the
licence holder under  paragraph 4 (8) , or

6.1.b

a notice under  section 29 (2) (b)  is served on the licence holder which
specifies that the notice is served in connection with a concern on the part
of the economic regulator that the licence holder may be contravening, or may
have contravened, a relevant condition or requirement.

6.2

Where a final or provisional order has been made in relation to a
contravention, the economic regulator may not impose a penalty in respect of
the contravention unless the notice relating to the penalty under  paragraph 4
(4)  was served on the licence holder under  paragraph 4 (8) —

6.2.a

within three months from the confirmation of the provisional order or the
making of the final order, or

6.2.b

where the provisional order is not confirmed, within six months from the
making of the provisional order.

##### Interest and payment of instalments

7

7.1

If the whole or any part of a penalty is not paid by the date by which it is
required to be paid, the unpaid balance from time to time is to carry interest
at the rate for the time being specified in section 17 of the Judgments Act
1838.

7.2

If an application is made under  paragraph 4 (7)  in relation to a penalty,
the penalty is not required to be paid until the application has been
determined.

7.3

If the economic regulator grants an application under that sub-paragraph in
relation to a penalty but any portion of the penalty is not paid by the date
specified in relation to it by the economic regulator under that sub-
paragraph, the economic regulator may where it considers it appropriate
require so much of the penalty as has not already been paid to be paid
immediately.

##### Appeals against penalties

8

8.1

If the licence holder on whom a penalty is imposed is aggrieved by—

8.1.a

the imposition of the penalty,

8.1.b

the amount of the penalty, or

8.1.c

the date by which the penalty is required to be paid, or the different dates
by which different portions of the penalty are required to be paid,

the licence holder may make an application to the court under this paragraph.

8.2

An application under  sub-paragraph (1)  must be made—

8.2.a

within 42 days from the date of service on the licence holder of a notice
under  paragraph 4 (6) , or

8.2.b

where the application relates to a decision of the economic regulator on an
application by the licence holder under  paragraph 4 (7) , within 42 days from
the date the licence holder is notified of the decision.

8.3

On any such application, where the court considers it appropriate to do so in
all the circumstances of the case and is satisfied of one or more of the
grounds falling within  sub-paragraph (4) , the court—

8.3.a

may quash the penalty,

8.3.b

may substitute a penalty of such lesser amount as the court considers
appropriate in all the circumstances of the case, or

8.3.c

in the case of an application under  sub-paragraph (1) (c) , may substitute
for the date or dates imposed by the economic regulator an alternative date or
dates.

8.4

The grounds falling within this sub-paragraph are—

8.4.a

that the imposition of the penalty was not within the power of the economic
regulator under  paragraph 4 ,

8.4.b

that any of the requirements of sub-paragraphs  (4)  to  (6)  or  (8)  of
paragraph 4  have not been complied with in relation to the imposition of the
penalty and the interests of the licence holder have been substantially
prejudiced by the non-compliance, or

8.4.c

that it was unreasonable of the economic regulator to require the penalty
imposed, or any portion of it, to be paid by the date or dates by which it was
required to be paid.

8.5

If an application is made under this paragraph in relation to a penalty, the
penalty is not required to be paid until the application has been determined.

8.6

Where the court substitutes a penalty of a lesser amount it may require the
payment of interest on the substituted penalty at such rate, and from such
date, as it considers just and equitable.

8.7

Where the court specifies, as a date by which the penalty or a portion of the
penalty is to be paid, a date before the determination of the application
under this paragraph it may require the payment of interest on the penalty, or
portion, from that date at such rate as it considers just and equitable.

8.8

Except as provided by this paragraph, the validity of a penalty is not to be
questioned by any legal proceedings whatever.

8.9

In this paragraph “ the court ” means—

8.9.a

in relation to England and Wales or Northern Ireland, the High Court, and

8.9.b

in relation to Scotland, the Court of Session.

##### Recovery of penalties

9

Where a penalty imposed under  paragraph 4 (1) , or any portion of it, has not
been paid by the date on which it is required to be paid and—

9.a

no application relating to the penalty has been made under  paragraph 8
during the period within which such an application can be made, or

9.b

an application has been made under that paragraph and determined,

the economic regulator may recover from the licence holder, as a civil debt
due to it, any of the penalty and any interest which has not been paid.

##### Maximum amount of penalty

10

10.1

The maximum amount of penalty that may be imposed on a licence holder in
respect of a contravention may not exceed 10 per cent of the licence holder’s
turnover.

10.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide for how a person’s turnover
is to be determined for the purposes of this paragraph.

10.3

Regulations under  sub-paragraph (2)  are subject to the affirmative
procedure.

10.4

In this paragraph “ penalty ” means a penalty imposed on a licence holder
under  paragraph 4 .

Transfer schemes

Section 52

##### Application and commencement of scheme

1

1.1

A scheme may set out the property, rights and liabilities to be transferred in
one or more of the following ways—

1.1.a

by specifying or describing them in particular;

1.1.b

by identifying them generally by reference to, or to a specified part of, an
undertaking from which they are to be transferred; or

1.1.c

by specifying the manner in which they are to be determined.

1.2

A scheme comes into force on the date appointed by the scheme.

##### Property, rights and liabilities that may be transferred

2

2.1

The property, rights and liabilities that may be transferred by a scheme
include—

2.1.a

property, rights and liabilities that would not otherwise be capable of being
transferred or assigned by the transferor;

2.1.b

property acquired in the period after the making of the scheme and before it
comes into force and rights and liabilities arising in that period;

2.1.c

rights and liabilities arising after the scheme comes into force in respect of
matters occurring before it comes into force;

2.1.d

property situated in the United Kingdom, otherwise in a controlled place, or
elsewhere;

2.1.e

rights and liabilities under the law of a part of the United Kingdom or of a
place outside the United Kingdom;

2.1.f

rights and liabilities under an enactment or subordinate legislation.

2.2

The transfers to which effect may be given by a scheme include transfers that
are to take effect in accordance with the scheme as if there were—

2.2.a

no such requirement to obtain a person’s consent or concurrence,

2.2.b

no such liability in respect of a contravention of any other requirement, and

2.2.c

no such interference with any interest or right,

as there would be, in the case of a transaction apart from this Act, by reason
of a provision falling within  sub-paragraph (3) .

2.3

A provision falls within this sub-paragraph to the extent that it has effect
(whether under an enactment or agreement or otherwise) in relation to the
terms on which the transferor is entitled or subject to anything to which the
transfer relates.

2.4

Sub-paragraph (5)  applies where (apart from that sub-paragraph) a person
would be entitled, in consequence of anything done or likely to be done by or
under this Act in connection with a scheme—

2.4.a

to terminate, modify, acquire or claim an interest or right to which the
transferor is entitled or subject, or

2.4.b

to treat such an interest or right as modified or terminated.

2.5

That entitlement is to be enforceable in relation to the interest or right—

2.5.a

in consequence of what is done or likely to be done by or under this Act, and

2.5.b

in corresponding circumstances arising after the transfer,

to the extent only that the scheme provides for it to be so enforceable.

2.6

Sub-paragraphs (2)  to  (5)  have effect where shares in a subsidiary of the
transferor are or are to be transferred—

2.6.a

as if the reference in  sub-paragraph (3)  to the terms on which the
transferor is entitled or subject to anything to which the transfer relates
included a reference to the terms on which the subsidiary is entitled or
subject to anything immediately before the transfer takes effect, and

2.6.b

as if the reference in  sub-paragraph (4)  to the transferor included a
reference to the subsidiary.

##### Dividing and modifying transferor’s property, rights and liabilities

3

3.1

A scheme may contain provision—

3.1.a

for the creation, in favour of a transferor or transferee, of an interest or
right in or in relation to property to be transferred in accordance with the
scheme;

3.1.b

for giving effect to a transfer to a person by the creation, in favour of that
person, of an interest or right in or in relation to property to be retained
by a transferor;

3.1.c

for the creation of new rights and liabilities (including rights of indemnity
and duties to indemnify) as between different transferees and as between a
transferee and a transferor.

3.2

A scheme may contain provision for the creation of rights and liabilities for
the purpose of converting arrangements between different parts of a
transferor’s undertaking which exist immediately before the coming into force
of the scheme into a contract between different transferees, or between a
transferee and a transferor.

3.3

A scheme may contain provision—

3.3.a

for rights and liabilities to be transferred so as to be enforceable by or
against more than one transferee, or by or against both the transferee and the
transferor, and

3.3.b

for rights and liabilities enforceable against more than one person in
accordance with provision falling within  paragraph (a)  to be enforceable in
different or modified respects by or against each or any of them.

3.4

A scheme may contain provision for interests, rights or liabilities of third
parties in relation to anything to which the scheme relates to be modified in
the manner set out in the scheme.

3.5

In  sub-paragraph (4)  “ third party ”, in relation to a scheme, means a
person other than the transferor and the transferee.

3.6

Paragraph 2 (2)  and  (3)  applies to the creation of interests and rights in
accordance with a scheme as it applies to the transfer of interests and
rights.

##### Obligation to effect transfers etc. under a scheme

4

4.1

A scheme may contain provision for imposing on a transferee or a transferor an
obligation—

4.1.a

to enter into such agreements with another person on whom a corresponding
obligation is, or could be or has been, imposed by virtue of  this paragraph
(whether in the same or a different scheme), or

4.1.b

to execute such instruments in favour of any such person,

as may be specified or described in the scheme.

4.2

An obligation imposed on a person by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  is
enforceable by the relevant person in civil proceedings—

4.2.a

for an injunction,

4.2.b

for specific performance of a statutory duty under section 45 of the Court of
Session Act 1988, or

4.2.c

for any other appropriate remedy or relief.

4.3

The relevant person for the purposes of  sub-paragraph (2)  is the person
with, or in favour of whom, the agreement or instrument is to be entered into
or executed.

##### Transfer of licences and permits

5

5.1

A scheme may include provision to transfer any licence or permit held by the
transferor from the transferor to the transferee.

5.2

Such a transfer may relate to the whole or any part of the licence or permit.

5.3

Where such a transfer relates to a part of the licence or permit, the
provision made under  sub-paragraph (1)  may include—

5.3.a

provision apportioning responsibility between the transferor and the
transferee in relation to—

5.3.a.i

the making of payments required by conditions included in the licence or (as
the case may be) permit,

5.3.a.ii

ensuring compliance with any other requirements of the conditions included in
the licence or (as the case may be) permit, and

5.3.b

provision making incidental modifications to the terms and conditions of the
licence or permit.

5.4

References in  this paragraph  to a part of a licence or permit are references
to one or both of—

5.4.a

a part of the activities authorised by the licence or (as the case may be)
permit;

5.4.b

a part of the area in relation to which the holder of the licence or (as the
case may be) permit is authorised to carry on those activities.

##### Powers and duties under statutory provisions

6

6.1

A scheme may contain provision for some or all of the powers and duties to
which  this paragraph  applies—

6.1.a

to be transferred to the transferee,

6.1.b

to become powers and duties that are exercisable, or must be performed,
concurrently by two or more transferees, or

6.1.c

to become powers and duties that are exercisable, or must be performed,
concurrently by a transferor and a transferee.

6.2

Provision falling within  sub-paragraph (1)  may apply to powers and duties
only in so far as they are exercisable or required to be performed in the area
specified or described in the provision.

6.3

The powers and duties to which  this paragraph  applies are the powers and
duties conferred or imposed upon the transferor by or under an enactment, so
far as those powers and duties are connected with—

6.3.a

the undertaking of the transferor to the extent the scheme relates to that
undertaking, or

6.3.b

any property, rights or liabilities to be transferred in accordance with the
scheme.

6.4

The powers and duties mentioned in  sub-paragraph (3)  include, in particular,
powers and duties relating to the carrying out of works or the acquisition of
land.

##### Effect of scheme

7

7.1

Where a scheme provides for the transfer of property, rights or liabilities,
or for the creation of interests, rights or liabilities—

7.1.a

this Act has the effect that, at the time when the scheme comes into force,
the property or interests, rights or liabilities vest, without further
assurance, in the transferee, and

7.1.b

the provisions of that scheme in relation to that property or those interests,
rights or liabilities have effect from that time.

7.2

Sub-paragraph (1)  is subject to so much of a scheme as provides for—

7.2.a

the transfer of property, rights or liabilities which are to be transferred in
accordance with the scheme, or

7.2.b

the creation of interests, rights and liabilities which are to be created in
accordance with the scheme,

to be effected by or under an agreement or instrument entered into or executed
in pursuance of an obligation imposed by virtue of  paragraph 4 (1) .

7.3

In its application to Scotland,  sub-paragraph (1)  has effect with the
omission of the words “without further assurance”.

##### Supplementary provisions of schemes

8

8.1

A scheme may—

8.1.a

make incidental, supplemental, consequential and transitional provision in
connection with the other provisions of the scheme;

8.1.b

make different provision for different purposes.

8.2

In particular, a scheme may make provision, in relation to transfers in
accordance with the scheme—

8.2.a

for the transferee to be treated as the same person in law as the transferor;

8.2.b

for agreements made, transactions effected or other things done by or in
relation to the transferor to be treated, so far as may be necessary for the
purposes of or in connection with the transfers, as made, effected or done by
or in relation to the transferee;

8.2.c

for references in an agreement, instrument or other document to the
transferor, or to an employee or office holder of the transferor, to have
effect, so far as may be necessary for the purposes of or in connection with a
transfer, with such modifications as are specified in the scheme;

8.2.d

that the effect of any transfer in accordance with the scheme in relation to
contracts of employment with the transferor is not to terminate any of those
contracts but is to be that periods of employment with the transferor are to
count for all purposes as periods of employment with the transferee;

8.2.e

for proceedings commenced by or against the transferor to be continued by or
against the transferee.

8.3

Sub-paragraph (2) (c)  does not apply to references in an enactment or in
subordinate legislation.

8.4

A scheme may make provision for disputes as to the effect of the scheme
between the transferor and the transferee to be referred to such arbitration
as may be specified in or determined under the scheme.

8.5

Where a person is entitled, in consequence of a scheme, to possession of a
document relating in part to the title to land or other property in England
and Wales, or to the management of such land or other property—

8.5.a

the scheme may provide for that person to be treated as having given another
person an acknowledgement in writing of the right of that other person to
production of the document and to delivery of copies of it, and

8.5.b

section 64 of the Law of Property Act 1925 (production and safe custody of
documents) is to have effect accordingly, and on the basis that the
acknowledgement did not contain an expression of contrary intention.

8.6

Where a person is entitled, in consequence of a scheme, to possession of a
document relating in part to the title to land or other property in Scotland
or to the management of such land or other property, subsection (1) of section
16 of the Land Registration (Scotland) Act 1979 (omission of certain clauses
in deeds) is to have effect in relation to the transfer—

8.6.a

as if the transfer had been effected by deed, and

8.6.b

as if the words “unless specially qualified” were omitted from that
subsection.

8.7

In  this paragraph  references to a transfer in accordance with a scheme
include references to the creation in accordance with such a scheme of an
interest, right or liability.

##### Modification of scheme

9

9.1

The Secretary of State may modify a scheme.

9.2

A modification may be made only for the purpose of achieving the objective
with which the scheme was made (see  section 50 (2) ).

9.3

If a transfer under the scheme has taken effect, a modification under  sub-
paragraph (1)  may be made only with the agreement of—

9.3.a

the transferor or transferee affected by the modification (or, where both the
transferor and transferee are affected, with the agreement of both of them);

9.3.b

any employee who is a party to a contract of employment containing rights and
liabilities to which the modification relates;

9.3.c

any other person whose property or rights have been adversely affected by the
modification.

9.4

A modification takes effect from such date as the Secretary of State may
specify (which may be the date when the original scheme came into effect).

##### Compensation for third parties

10

10.1

Where—

10.1.a

an entitlement of a third party to an interest or right would, apart from a
provision of a scheme under  paragraph 2 (4)  and  (5) , become enforceable in
respect of the transfer or creation in accordance with such a scheme of any
property, rights or liabilities,

10.1.b

the provisions of that scheme or of  paragraph 2 (4)  and  (5)  have the
effect of preventing the third party’s entitlement to that interest or right
from being enforced in respect of anything for which the scheme provides, and

10.1.c

provision is not made by the scheme for securing that an entitlement to that
interest or right, or to an equivalent interest or right, is preserved or
created so as to arise and be enforceable in respect of the first occasion
when corresponding circumstances next occur after the coming into force of the
transfers for which the scheme provides,

the third party is entitled to compensation in respect of the extinguishment
of the third party’s entitlement.

10.2

The amount of compensation to which a third party is entitled under  this
paragraph  is the amount necessary for securing, to the extent that it is just
to do so, that the third party does not suffer financial loss from the
extinguishment of the entitlement.

10.3

A liability to pay compensation under  this paragraph  falls on the Secretary
of State.

10.4

In the preceding provisions of  this paragraph  “ third party ”, in relation
to a scheme, means a person other than the transferor and the transferee.

10.5

This paragraph  has effect in relation to the provisions of an agreement or
instrument entered into or executed in pursuance of an obligation imposed by a
scheme as it has effect in relation to the scheme.

##### Provision relating to foreign property etc

11

11.1

Where there is a transfer in accordance with a scheme of—

11.1.a

any foreign property, or

11.1.b

a foreign right or liability,

the transferor and the transferee must each take all requisite steps to secure
that the vesting of the foreign property, right or liability in the transferee
is effective under the relevant foreign law.

11.2

Until the vesting of the foreign property, right or liability in the
transferee in accordance with the scheme is effective under the relevant
foreign law, the transferor must—

11.2.a

hold the property or right for the benefit of the transferee, or

11.2.b

discharge the liability on behalf of the transferor.

11.3

The transferor must comply with any directions given to it by the transferee
in relation to the performance of the obligations under  sub-paragraphs (1)
and  (2)  of the transferor.

11.4

Nothing in  sub-paragraphs (1)  to  (3)  prejudices the effect under the law
of a part of the United Kingdom of the vesting of any foreign property, right
or liability in the transferee in accordance with a scheme.

11.5

Where—

11.5.a

any foreign property, right or liability is acquired or incurred in respect of
any other property, right or liability by a person, and

11.5.b

by virtue of  this paragraph , the person holds the other property or right
for the benefit of the transferee or is required to discharge the liability on
behalf of the transferee,

the property, right or liability acquired or incurred immediately becomes the
property, right or liability of the transferee.

11.6

The provisions of  sub-paragraphs (1)  to  (5)  have effect in relation to
foreign property, rights or liabilities transferred to the transferee under
sub-paragraph (5)  as they have effect in the case of property, rights and
liabilities transferred in accordance with a scheme.

11.7

References in  this paragraph  to foreign property, or to a foreign right or
liability, are references to any property, right or liability as respects
which an issue arising in any proceedings would be determined (in accordance
with the rules of private international law) by reference to the law of a
country or territory outside the United Kingdom.

11.8

Expenses incurred under  this paragraph  by a person as the person from which
anything is transferred are to be met by the transferee.

11.9

An obligation imposed under  this paragraph  in relation to property, rights
or liabilities is to be enforceable as if contained in a contract between the
transferor and the transferee.

##### Provision of information to Secretary of State

12

12.1

If the Secretary of State proposes to make a scheme, the Secretary of State
may direct—

12.1.a

a proposed transferor, or

12.1.b

a proposed transferee,

to provide the Secretary of State with such information as the Secretary of
State considers necessary to enable the Secretary of State to make the scheme.

12.2

If the Secretary of State proposes to modify a scheme, the Secretary of State
may direct—

12.2.a

a transferor, or

12.2.b

a transferee,

to provide the Secretary of State with such information as the Secretary of
State considers necessary to enable the Secretary of State to modify the
scheme.

12.3

A direction under  sub-paragraph (1)  or  (2)  must specify the period within
which the information is to be provided.

12.4

The period specified in the direction must be not less than 28 days beginning
with the day of the giving of the direction.

12.5

If a person fails to comply with such a direction, the Secretary of State may
serve a notice on the person requiring the person—

12.5.a

to produce to the Secretary of State any documents which are specified or
described in the notice and are in the person’s custody or under the person’s
control, or

12.5.b

to provide to the Secretary of State such information as may be specified or
described in the notice.

12.6

Documents or information to be produced or provided in accordance with such a
notice must be produced or provided at the time and place, and in the form and
manner, specified in the notice.

12.7

No person may be required under  this paragraph —

12.7.a

to produce a document which the person could not be compelled to produce in
civil proceedings in the court, or

12.7.b

to provide information which the person could not be compelled to give in
evidence in such proceedings.

12.8

A person who intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys a document which the
person has been required to produce by a notice under  sub-paragraph (5)  is
guilty of an offence and liable—

12.8.a

on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum, and

12.8.b

on conviction on indictment, to a fine.

12.9

If a person fails to comply with a notice under  sub-paragraph (5) , the court
may, on the application of the Secretary of State, make such order as the
court thinks fit for requiring the failure to be made good.

12.10

Any order under  sub-paragraph (9)  may include provision requiring all the
costs or expenses of and incidental to the application to be borne by one or
more of the following—

12.10.a

the person in default;

12.10.b

any officers of a company or other association who are responsible for its
default.

12.11

In  this paragraph —

12.11.a

a reference to the production of a document includes a reference to the
production of a legible and intelligible copy of information recorded
otherwise than in legible form, and

12.11.b

the reference to suppressing a document includes a reference to destroying the
means of reproducing information recorded otherwise than in legible form.

12.12

In  this paragraph  “ the court ” means—

12.12.a

in England and Wales, the High Court;

12.12.b

in Scotland, the Court of Session;

12.12.c

in Northern Ireland, the High Court.

##### Interpretation

13

13.1

In  this Schedule —

“ controlled place ” has the meaning given by section 17(3) to (4) of the
Energy Act 2008; “ scheme ” means a scheme under  section 50 ; “ subsidiary ”
has the meaning given to it by section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006; “
transferee ”— in relation to a scheme, means a person to whom property, rights
or liabilities are transferred in accordance with the scheme; and in relation
to particular property, rights or liabilities transferred or created in
accordance with a scheme, means the person to whom that property or those
rights or liabilities are transferred or in whose favour, or in relation to
whom, they are created; “ transferor ”— in relation to a scheme, means the
person from whom property, rights or liabilities are transferred in accordance
with the scheme; and in relation to particular property, rights or liabilities
transferred or created in accordance with a scheme, means the person from whom
that property or those rights or liabilities are transferred or the person who
or whose property is subject to the interest or right created by the scheme or
for whose benefit the liability is created.

13.2

References in  this Schedule  to a right or to an entitlement to a right
include references to an entitlement to exercise a right; and, accordingly,
references to a right’s arising include references to its becoming
exercisable.

Amendments related to Part  1

Section 54

##### Utilities Act 2000

1

The Utilities Act 2000 is amended as follows.

2

In section 4 (forward work programmes), at the end insert—

2.7

In this section—

2.7.a

references to functions do not include functions under  Part 1  of the Energy
Act 2023, and

2.7.b

references to projects do not include projects with regard to the exercise of
such functions.

3

In section 5 (annual and other reports of Authority), after subsection (10)
insert—

3.11

In this section—

3.11.a

references to functions of the Authority do not include functions under  Part
1  of the Energy Act 2023;

3.11.b

references to activities of the Authority do not include activities in the
exercise of such functions;

3.11.c

the reference in subsection (1) to “ references made by the Authority ” does
not include references made by virtue of  section 36 (1)  of the Energy Act
2023.

4

In section 5XA (laying of accounts before Scottish Parliament and Welsh
Assembly)—

4.a

in the heading, for “and Welsh Assembly” substitute  “, Senedd Cymru or the
Northern Ireland Assembly” ;

4.b

after subsection (2) insert—

4.b.2A

The Authority must send to the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland,
in respect of each of its accounting years, a copy of the certified accounts
and report of the Authority no later than 31 January of the financial year
following that to which the accounts relate.

;

4.c

after subsection (3A) insert—

4.c.3B

The Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland must lay a copy of whatever
is sent to it under subsection (2A) before the Northern Ireland Assembly.

;

4.d

for subsection (4) substitute—

4.d.4

In subsections (1) to (3) “ certified accounts and report ” means those
accounts certified under sections 5 and 7 of the Government Resources and
Accounts Act 2000, and the report issued by the Comptroller and Auditor
General under section 6(3)(a) of that Act.

5

In section 105 (general restrictions on disclosure of information)—

5.a

in subsection (1)(a), after “Energy Prices Act 2022” insert  “or  Part 1  of
the Energy Act 2023” ;

5.b

in subsection (3), after paragraph (azc) insert—

5.b.azd

it is made for the purpose of facilitating the performance of any functions of
the Authority under or by virtue of Part 1 of the Energy Act 2023;

;

5.c

in subsection (6), at the end insert—

5.c.z1

Part 1 of the Energy Act 2023.

##### Enterprise Act 2002

6

The Enterprise Act 2002 is amended as follows.

7

In section 136 (investigations and reports on market investigation
references), in subsection (7)(b), for the words from “or” to the end
substitute  “, section 43 of the Electricity Act 1989 or (as the case may be)
section 36  of the Energy Act 2023;” .

8

8.1

Section 168 (regulated markets) is amended as follows.

8.2

In subsection (3) (meaning of “ relevant action ”)—

8.2.a

omit “or” at the end of paragraph (p);

8.2.b

after paragraph (q) insert

; or

8.2.b.r

modifying the conditions of a licence granted under  section 7  of the Energy
Act 2023.

8.3

In subsection (4) (meaning of “ relevant statutory functions ”)—

8.3.a

omit “and” at the end of paragraph (r);

8.3.b

after paragraph (s) insert

, and

8.3.b.t

in relation to a licence granted under  section 7  of the Energy Act 2023, the
objectives and duties of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority under
section 1  of that Act.

8.4

In subsection (6)—

8.4.a

for “or section 6” substitute  “, section 6” ;

8.4.b

before “would” insert  “or  section 7  of the Energy Act 2023” .

##### Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013

9

In Schedule 4 to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013, in paragraph
35(3) (membership of CMA panel), in the definition of “specialist utility
functions”, after paragraph (b) insert—

9.ba

an appeal under  section 20  of the Energy Act 2023;

.

  Carbon dioxide storage licences: licence provisions

Section 103

  In the Storage of Carbon Dioxide (Licensing etc.) Regulations 2010 ( S.I.
2010/2221 ), in Schedule 1 (provisions to be included in a licence), after
paragraph 5 insert—     Change in control of licence holder   6       1
This paragraph applies if—     a     the licence holder is a company, or
b     where two or more persons are joint licence holders, any of those
persons is a company,       and references in this paragraph to a company are
to such a company.         2     A change in control of a company is not
permitted without the consent of the authority.         3     There is a
“change in control” of a company if a person takes control of the company, not
having previously been a person who controlled the company.         4     If a
change in control of a company is contemplated, the company must apply in
writing to the authority for consent at least three months before the date on
which it is proposed that the change would occur (if consent were given).
5     The authority may—     a     consent to the change in control
unconditionally,         b     consent to the change in control subject to
conditions, or         c     refuse consent to the change in control.
6     If the authority proposes to grant consent subject to any condition or
to refuse consent, the authority must, before making a final decision—     a
give the company an opportunity to make representations, and         b
consider any representations that are made.             7     The general rule
is that the authority must decide an application within three months of
receiving it, but the authority may delay its decision by notifying the
interested parties in writing.         8     Conditions as mentioned in sub-
paragraph (5)(b) may be imposed on the person taking control of the company
(as well as on the company), and may include—     a     conditions relating to
the arrangements for the change in control, including the date by which it
must occur,         b     conditions relating to the performance of activities
permitted by the licence, and         c     financial conditions.
9     The authority’s decision on the application, and any conditions as
mentioned in sub-paragraph (5)(b), must be notified in writing to the
interested parties.         10     In this paragraph “ the interested parties
” means—     a     the company,         b     the person who (if consent were
granted) would take control of the company, and         c     if the company
is a joint licence holder with another person or other persons, that other
person or those other persons.             11     For the purposes of this
paragraph, “control” of a company is to be construed in accordance with
sections 450(2) to (4) and 451(1) to (5) of the Corporation Tax Act 2010, but
read as if—     a     for the words “the greater part” wherever they occur in
section 450(3), there were substituted  “one-third or more” ,         b     in
section 451(4) and (5), for “may” there were substituted  “must” , and
c     in section 451(4) and (5), any reference to an associate of a person
included only—     i     a relative (as defined in section 448(2) of that Act)
of the person,         ii     a partner of the person, and         iii     a
trustee of a settlement (as defined in section 620 of the Income Tax (Trading
and Other Income) Act 2005) of which the person is a beneficiary.
Revocation of licence re change in control   7       1     This paragraph
applies in connection with a change in control of a licence holder which is a
company (see paragraph 6).         2     In the event of—     a     any breach
or non-observance by the company of any of the terms of paragraph 6,         b
any breach of a condition (imposed in accordance with paragraph 6) subject to
which the authority gave its consent to a change in control of the company, or
c     any failure to provide full and accurate information in response to a
notice given by the authority to the company under section 29A,       the
authority may, by giving the company and any joint licence holders notice in
writing, revoke the licence with effect from the date specified in the notice.
Partial revocation of licence re change in control   8       1     This
paragraph applies if two or more persons are joint licence holders and any of
them is a company.         2     If an event mentioned in paragraph 7(2)(a),
(b) or (c) occurs in connection with a change in control of the company, the
authority may exercise the power in paragraph 7 to revoke the licence in so
far as it applies to that company (without revoking it in so far as it applies
to the other person or persons who are joint licence holders).

  Permitted disclosures of material obtained by OGA

Section 113

##### Disclosure by OGA to specified persons

1

1.1

Section  113  does not prohibit a disclosure of protected material by the OGA
which—

1.1.a

is made to a person mentioned in column 1 of the table below,

1.1.b

is made for the purpose of facilitating the carrying out of that person’s
functions, and

1.1.c

is a disclosure of protected material obtained by the OGA under a provision
mentioned in the corresponding entry of column 2 of the table.

    Column 1 Column 2   A Minister of the Crown Section 112  or  124 His
Majesty’s Revenue and Customs Section 112  or  124 The Competition and Markets
Authority Section 112  or  124 The Scottish Ministers Section 112 The Welsh
Ministers Section 112 A Northern Ireland Department Section 112 The Office for
Budget Responsibility Section 112 An enforcing authority Section 112  or  124
The Statistics Board Section 112  or  124 The GEMA Section 112  or  124 The
Crown Estate Section 112 A manager of the Crown Estate in Scotland Section 112

1.2

In the table—

      “ enforcing authority ” has the same meaning as in Part 1 of the Health
and Safety at Work etc Act 1974 (see section 18(7)(a) of that Act);
“ manager of the Crown Estate in Scotland ” means a person who for the time
being is discharging functions in relation to the management of any property,
rights or interests to which section 90B(5) of the Scotland Act 1998 applies;
“ Minister of the Crown ” has the same meaning as in the Ministers of the
Crown Act 1975.

1.3

Section 113  does not prohibit a disclosure of protected material by the OGA
which—

1.3.a

is a disclosure of protected material obtained by it under  section 112 ,

1.3.b

is made to the Natural Environment Research Council, or any other similar body
carrying on geological activities, and

1.3.c

is made for the purpose of enabling the body to prepare and publish reports
and surveys of a general nature using information derived from the protected
material.

1.4

A person to whom protected material is disclosed by virtue of  sub-paragraph
(1)  or  (3)  may use the protected material only for the purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraph (1) (b)  or  (3) (c)  (as the case may be).

1.5

Section 113  does not prohibit a person mentioned in  sub-paragraph (4)  from
disclosing the protected material so far as necessary for the purpose
mentioned in that sub-paragraph.

1.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the table in  sub-paragraph
(1) —

1.6.a

to remove a person from column 1,

1.6.b

to add to column 1 a person to whom  sub-paragraph (7)  applies, or

1.6.c

to add, remove or change entries in column 2.

1.7

This sub-paragraph applies to—

1.7.a

persons holding office under the Crown;

1.7.b

persons in the service or employment of the Crown;

1.7.c

persons acting on behalf of the Crown;

1.7.d

government departments;

1.7.e

publicly owned companies as defined in section 6 of the Freedom of Information
Act 2000.

1.8

Regulations under  sub-paragraph (6)  are subject to the affirmative
procedure.

##### Disclosure required for returns and reports prepared by OGA

2

2.1

Section 113  does not prohibit the OGA from using protected material obtained
by the OGA under  section 112  for the purpose of—

2.1.a

preparing such returns and reports as may be required under obligations
imposed by or under any Act;

2.1.b

preparing and publishing reports and surveys of a general nature using
information derived from the protected material.

2.2

Section 113  does not prohibit the OGA from disclosing protected material so
far as necessary for those purposes.

##### Disclosure in exercise of certain OGA powers

3

Section 113  does not prohibit a disclosure of protected material if it is
made in the exercise of the OGA’s powers under  section 121  (publication of
details of sanctions).

##### Disclosure after specified period

4

4.1

Section 113  does not prohibit protected material obtained by the OGA under
section 112  from being—

4.1.a

published, or

4.1.b

made available to the public (where the protected material includes samples),

by the OGA or a subsequent holder at such time as may be specified in
regulations made by the Secretary of State.

4.2

Regulations under  sub-paragraph (1)  may include provision permitting
protected material to be published, or made available to the public,
immediately after it is provided to a person.

4.3

Before making regulations under  sub-paragraph (1) , the Secretary of State
must consult such persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

4.4

Sub-paragraph  (3)  does not apply if the Secretary of State is satisfied that
consultation is unnecessary having regard to consultation carried out by the
OGA in relation to what time should be specified in regulations under  sub-
paragraph (1) .

4.5

Regulations under  sub-paragraph (1)  are subject to the affirmative
procedure.

4.6

In determining the time to be specified in respect of protected material in
regulations under  sub-paragraph (1) , the Secretary of State must have regard
to the following factors—

4.6.a

whether the specified time will allow owners of protected material a
reasonable period of time to satisfy the main purpose for which they acquired
or created the material;

4.6.b

any potential benefits to the carbon storage industry of protected material
being published or made available at the specified time;

4.6.c

any potential risk that the specified time may discourage persons from
acquiring or creating carbon storage information or carbon storage samples;

4.6.d

any other factors the Secretary of State considers relevant.

4.7

In balancing the factors mentioned in  sub-paragraph (6) (a)  to  (d) , the
Secretary of State must take into account the principal objectives of the
Secretary of State set out in  section 1 (1) .

4.8

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (6) (a) , the owner of protected material
is the person by whom, or on whose behalf, the protected material was provided
to the OGA under  section 112 .

##### Disclosure with appropriate consent

5

5.1

Section 113  does not prohibit a disclosure of protected material if it is
made with the appropriate consent.

5.2

For this purpose a disclosure is made with the appropriate consent if—

5.2.a

in the case of disclosure by the OGA, the original owner consents to the
disclosure;

5.2.b

in the case of disclosure by a subsequent holder—

5.2.b.i

the OGA consents to the disclosure, and

5.2.b.ii

where the protected material in question was provided to the OGA under
section 112 , the OGA confirms that the original owner of the material also
consents to the disclosure.

5.3

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (2) , the original owner of protected
material provided to the OGA is the person by whom, or on whose behalf, the
protected material was so provided.

##### Disclosure required by legislation

6

Section 113  does not prohibit a disclosure of protected material required by
virtue of an obligation imposed by or under this or any other Act.

##### Disclosure for purpose of proceedings

7

7.1

Section 113  does not prohibit a disclosure of protected material by the OGA
for the purposes of, or in connection with—

7.1.a

civil proceedings, or

7.1.b

arbitration proceedings.

7.2

Section 113  does not prohibit a disclosure of protected material by the OGA
for the purposes of, or in connection with—

7.2.a

the investigation or prosecution of criminal offences, or

7.2.b

the prevention of criminal activity.

  Carbon storage information and samples: appeals

Section 125

##### Appeals against decisions relating to information and samples

###### Appeals in relation to information and samples plans

1

1.1

A person affected by any decision of the OGA to which effect is given by the
preparation of an information and samples plan may appeal against it to the
Tribunal—

1.1.a

on the ground that the decision was not within the powers of the OGA, or

1.1.b

on the ground that the plan is unreasonable.

1.2

On an appeal under this paragraph the Tribunal may—

1.2.a

affirm, vary or quash the decision under appeal,

1.2.b

remit the decision under appeal to the OGA for reconsideration with such
directions (if any) as the Tribunal considers appropriate, or

1.2.c

substitute its own decision for the decision under appeal.

###### Appeals against notices requiring provision of information or samples

2

2.1

A person affected by any decision of the OGA to which effect is given by the
giving of a notice requiring the provision of information or samples under
section 112  may appeal against it to the Tribunal—

2.1.a

on the ground that the decision was not within the powers of the OGA, or

2.1.b

on the ground that the length of time given to comply with the notice is
unreasonable.

2.2

On an appeal under this paragraph the Tribunal may—

2.2.a

affirm, vary or quash the decision under appeal,

2.2.b

remit the decision under appeal to the OGA for reconsideration with such
directions (if any) as the Tribunal considers appropriate, or

2.2.c

substitute its own decision for the decision under appeal.

##### Appeals relating to enforcement of sanctionable requirements

###### Appeals in relation to sanction notices

3

3.1

Where a sanction notice is given under  section 115  in respect of a failure
to comply with a sanctionable requirement, an appeal may be made—

3.1.a

under  paragraph 4  (on the ground that there was no such failure to comply);

3.1.b

under  paragraph 5  (against the sanction imposed by the notice).

3.2

Where an appeal is made in relation to a sanction notice, the notice ceases to
have effect until a decision is made by the Tribunal to confirm, vary or
cancel the notice.

3.3

Where, on an appeal made in relation to a sanction notice—

3.3.a

the Tribunal makes a decision to confirm or vary the notice, and

3.3.b

an appeal is or may be made in relation to that decision,

the Tribunal, or the Upper Tribunal, may further suspend the effect of the
notice pending a decision which disposes of proceedings on such an appeal.

###### Appeals against finding of failure to comply

4

4.1

An appeal may be made to the Tribunal by the person, or by any of the persons,
to whom a sanction notice is given in respect of a failure to comply with a
sanctionable requirement, on the grounds that the person, or persons, did not
fail to comply with the requirement.

4.2

On an appeal under this paragraph, the Tribunal may confirm or cancel the
sanction notice.

4.3

Where sanction notices are given on more than one occasion in respect of the
same failure to comply with a sanctionable requirement—

4.3.a

an appeal under this paragraph may be made only in relation to the sanction
notice, or any of the sanction notices, given on the first of those occasions,
and

4.3.b

appeals in relation to sanction notices given on subsequent occasions in
respect of that failure to comply may be made only under  paragraph 5 .

###### Appeals against sanction imposed

5

5.1

Where a sanction notice is given in respect of a failure to comply with a
sanctionable requirement, a person mentioned in sub- paragraph (2) may appeal
to the Tribunal against any of the decisions of the OGA mentioned in  sub-
paragraph (3)  (as to the sanction imposed by the notice) on the grounds
mentioned in  sub-paragraph (4) .

5.2

The persons who may appeal are—

5.2.a

the person, or any of the persons, to whom the notice was given, and

5.2.b

in the case of an operator removal notice under  section 119 , the licensee
under whose carbon storage licence the exploration operator operates.

5.3

The decisions against which an appeal may be made are—

5.3.a

where an enforcement notice has been given, the decision as to—

5.3.a.i

the measures that are required to be taken for the purposes of compliance with
the sanctionable requirement, or

5.3.a.ii

the period for compliance with the sanctionable requirement;

5.3.b

where a financial penalty notice has been given, the decision—

5.3.b.i

to impose a financial penalty, or

5.3.b.ii

as to the amount of the financial penalty imposed;

5.3.c

where a revocation notice has been given, the decision to terminate the carbon
storage licence or to revoke the storage permit;

5.3.d

where an operator removal notice has been given, the decision to require the
removal of the exploration operator.

5.4

The grounds on which an appeal may be made are that the decision of the OGA—

5.4.a

was unreasonable, or

5.4.b

was not within the powers of the OGA.

5.5

On an appeal under this paragraph against a decision made in relation to an
enforcement notice, the Tribunal may—

5.5.a

confirm or quash the decision, in the case of a decision mentioned in  sub-
paragraph (3) (a) (i)  (remedial action), or

5.5.b

confirm or vary the decision, in the case of a decision mentioned in  sub-
paragraph (3) (a) (ii)  (period for compliance),

and confirm, vary or cancel the enforcement notice accordingly.

5.6

On an appeal under this paragraph against a decision made in relation to a
financial penalty notice, the Tribunal may—

5.6.a

confirm or quash the decision, in the case of a decision mentioned in  sub-
paragraph (3) (b) (i)  (imposition of penalty), or

5.6.b

confirm or vary the decision, in the case of a decision mentioned in  sub-
paragraph (3) (b) (ii)  (amount of penalty),

and confirm, vary or cancel the financial penalty notice accordingly.

5.7

The Tribunal must have regard to any guidance issued by the OGA under  section
117 (6) (a)  when deciding whether to confirm or vary a decision as to the
amount of a financial penalty under  sub-paragraph (6) (b) .

5.8

On an appeal under this paragraph against a decision to terminate a carbon
storage licence, to revoke a storage permit or to require the removal of an
exploration operator the Tribunal may—

5.8.a

confirm the decision,

5.8.b

vary the decision by changing the revocation date or the removal date, as the
case may be, or

5.8.c

quash the decision,

and confirm, vary or cancel the sanction notice in question accordingly.

5.9

Where a decision is quashed under  sub-paragraph (5) (a) ,  (6) (a)  or  (8) ,
the Tribunal may remit the decision to the OGA for reconsideration with such
directions (if any) as the Tribunal considers appropriate.

###### Appeals against information requirements

6

6.1

A person to whom a notice is given under  section 124  may appeal against it
to the Tribunal on the grounds that—

6.1.a

the giving of the notice is not within the powers of the OGA, or

6.1.b

the length of time given to comply with the notice is unreasonable.

6.2

On an appeal under this paragraph the Tribunal may—

6.2.a

confirm, vary or cancel the notice, or

6.2.b

remit the matter under appeal to the OGA for reconsideration with such
directions (if any) as the Tribunal considers appropriate.

Independent System Operator and Planner: transfers

Section 174

##### Transfer schemes

###### Power to make a transfer scheme

1

1.1

The Secretary of State may make one or more schemes for the transfer of
designated property, rights or liabilities from one person to another person—

1.1.a

in preparation for or in connection with the designation of a person under
section 162 (1) , or

1.1.b

for the purpose of enabling the ISOP to carry out any of its functions.

1.2

The Secretary of State may, during the period of 7 years beginning with the
day on which this Act is passed, make one or more schemes for the transfer of
designated property, rights or liabilities from one person to another person
in connection with the operation or management of—

1.2.a

a document maintained in accordance with the conditions of a relevant licence,
or

1.2.b

an agreement that gives effect to a document so maintained.

1.3

In this Schedule

1.3.a

“ transfer scheme ” means a scheme under either or both of  sub-paragraphs (1)
and  (2) ;

1.3.b

“ transferor ”, in relation to a transfer scheme, means a person from whom
property, rights or liabilities are or are to be transferred under the scheme;

1.3.c

“ transferee ”, in relation to a transfer scheme, means a person to whom
property, rights or liabilities are or are to be transferred under the scheme.

1.4

In  this Part  of this Schedule—

1.4.a

“ designated ”, in relation to a transfer scheme, means specified in or
determined in accordance with the scheme;

1.4.b

“ the TUPE regulations ” means the Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of
Employment) Regulations 2006 ( S.I. 2006/246 );

1.4.c

references to property are to property situated in the United Kingdom or
elsewhere;

1.4.d

references to the transfer of property include the grant of a lease;

1.4.e

references to rights and liabilities—

1.4.e.i

are references to rights and liabilities of any kind, arising (in any way or
at any time) under the law of a part of Great Britain or of a place outside
Great Britain;

1.4.e.ii

include rights and liabilities arising under or by virtue of an enactment.

###### Consultation

2

2.1

Before making a transfer scheme, the Secretary of State must consult—

2.1.a

the transferor (or, if there is more than one transferor, the transferors),
and

2.1.b

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

2.2

Sub-paragraph (1)  may be satisfied by consultation before the passing of this
Act (as well as by consultation after that time).

###### Transfer of property, rights and liabilities

3

3.1

The transfer of designated property, rights and liabilities under a transfer
scheme takes effect on the date (or dates) specified in or determined in
accordance with the scheme.

3.2

Sub-paragraph (1)  has effect notwithstanding any provision (whether under an
enactment or agreement or otherwise) that would otherwise prevent or restrict
the transfer.

3.3

The things that may be transferred under a transfer scheme include—

3.3.a

rights, powers, duties and liabilities under or in connection with a contract
of employment (see paragraph  4 );

3.3.b

property, rights and liabilities that could not otherwise be transferred;

3.3.c

property acquired, and rights and liabilities arising, after the making of the
scheme;

3.3.d

criminal liabilities.

4

4.1

This paragraph applies where, under a transfer scheme, an employee to whom the
scheme applies becomes an employee of a transferee.

4.2

The transfer scheme may apply to—

4.2.a

all persons who are employees of a transferor,

4.2.b

such descriptions of a transferor’s employees as the scheme may specify, or

4.2.c

such employees of a transferor as the scheme may specify.

4.3

The transfer scheme may include provision—

4.3.a

that has the same or similar effect as the TUPE regulations (so far as those
regulations do not apply to any extent in relation to the transfer);

4.3.b

about the pension entitlements of the employee enjoyed immediately before the
transfer.

4.4

The transfer scheme must contain provision enabling an employee to whom the
scheme applies to object to the transfer before the relevant time, including
provision as to how such an objection is to be made and as to the consequences
of it.

4.5

The transfer scheme may provide that a person who is assigned to work for a
transferor (whether on secondment or otherwise and whether or not on a full-
time basis), but who does not have a contract of employment with the
transferor, is to be treated for the purposes of any provision of the scheme
as an employee of the transferor.

4.6

The transfer scheme may provide that a collective agreement that, immediately
before the relevant time, had effect in relation to an employee’s employment
with a transferor is to have effect on and after the relevant time in relation
to the employee’s employment with a transferee.

4.7

In this paragraph—

“ collective agreement ” has the same meaning as in the Trade Union and Labour
Relations (Consolidation) Act 1992 (see section 178(1) of that Act); “
employee ” has the same meaning as in the TUPE regulations (see regulation
2(1) of the regulations); “ the relevant time ” means the time at which the
transfer of the person’s employment takes effect in accordance with the
transfer scheme.

5

5.1

A transfer scheme may make provision requiring a transferor to provide such
co-operation to a transferee as the transferee may reasonably require in
connection with the implementation of the scheme.

5.2

The co-operation that may be required by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1)
includes, in particular, co-operation in relation to—

5.2.a

the provision of information;

5.2.b

consultation with representatives of employees transferred by the scheme.

6

6.1

A transfer scheme may make supplementary, incidental, transitional or
consequential provision and may in particular—

6.1.a

create rights, or impose liabilities, in relation to property, rights or
liabilities transferred;

6.1.b

make provision about the continuing effect of things done by a transferor in
respect of anything transferred;

6.1.c

make provision about the continuation of things (including legal proceedings)
in the process of being done by, on behalf of, or in relation to, a transferor
in respect of anything transferred;

6.1.d

make provision for references to a transferor in any instrument or other
document in respect of anything transferred to be treated as references to the
transferee;

6.1.e

prevent a right of pre-emption, right of reverter, right of forfeiture, right
to compensation or other similar right from arising or becoming exercisable as
a result of the transfer;

6.1.f

dispense with any formality in relation to the transfer of anything by the
scheme;

6.1.g

make provision for the shared ownership or use of property;

6.1.h

require a transferor, an associate of a transferor, or a transferee, to enter
into any agreement of any kind, or for a purpose, specified in or determined
in accordance with the scheme.

6.2

Sub-paragraph  (1) (d)  does not apply to references in—

6.2.a

primary legislation,

6.2.b

subordinate legislation within the meaning of the Interpretation Act 1978 (see
section 21(1) of that Act), or

6.2.c

an instrument made under an Act of the Scottish Parliament, an Act or Measure
of Senedd Cymru, or Northern Ireland legislation.

6.3

Any requirement imposed on a person by a transfer scheme is enforceable by the
Secretary of State in civil proceedings—

6.3.a

for an injunction,

6.3.b

for specific performance of a statutory duty under section 45 of the Court of
Session Act 1988, or

6.3.c

for any other appropriate remedy or relief.

6.4

A certificate issued by the Secretary of State to the effect that any
property, interest, right or liability transferred in accordance with a
transfer scheme to a person specified in the certificate at a time so
specified is conclusive evidence of the matters so specified.

6.5

In  this paragraph —

“ associate ” has the meaning given by section 1152 of the Companies Act 2006;
“ primary legislation ” means— an Act, an Act of the Scottish Parliament, an
Act or Measure of Senedd Cymru, or Northern Ireland legislation.

7

A transfer scheme may—

7.a

make different provision for different purposes;

7.b

make provision subject to exceptions.

###### Compensation

8

8.1

A transfer scheme may provide for a transferor to be entitled to compensation
from the Secretary of State, in accordance with provision made by or under the
scheme, to the extent that the scheme makes provision—

8.1.a

in preparation for or in connection with the first designation of a person
under  section 162 (1) , or

8.1.b

for the purpose of facilitating the carrying on by the ISOP of any of its
functions.

8.2

Where a transferor is entitled to compensation by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)
, the amount of compensation is to be the amount—

8.2.a

agreed by the Secretary of State and the transferor, or

8.2.b

in the absence of such agreement, determined by an independent valuer.

8.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (2)  an independent valuer must be
appointed—

8.3.a

by the Secretary of State and the transferor, or

8.3.b

in the absence of such agreement, by the Secretary of State on behalf of both
the Secretary of State and the transferor.

8.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision—

8.4.a

for determining when there is an absence of agreement for the purposes of
sub-paragraph (2) (b)  or  (3) (b) ;

8.4.b

about the procedure to be followed by an independent valuer in making a
determination for the purposes of  sub-paragraph (2) (b)  (“a compensation
determination”);

8.4.c

specifying matters to which an independent valuer must have regard, or
assumptions that an independent valuer must apply, in making a compensation
determination;

8.4.d

for an independent valuer to require the Secretary of State or the transferor
to provide such information to the independent valuer as the independent
valuer reasonably requires for the purposes of making a compensation
determination;

8.4.e

for an independent valuer’s determination to be binding on the Secretary of
State and the transferor for the period specified in or determined under the
regulations;

8.4.f

about remuneration and expenses of an independent valuer;

8.4.g

about enforcement of requirements imposed by the regulations.

8.5

Regulations under sub-paragraph  (4)  may confer a discretion on a person.

###### Taxation

9

9.1

The Treasury may by regulations make provision varying the way in which a
relevant tax has effect in relation to—

9.1.a

anything transferred, acquired or disposed of under a transfer scheme, or

9.1.b

anything done for the purposes of, or in relation to, a transfer under a
transfer scheme.

9.2

The provision that may be made under  sub-paragraph (1) (a)  includes, in
particular, provision for—

9.2.a

a tax provision not to apply, or to apply with modifications, in relation to
anything transferred;

9.2.b

anything transferred to be treated in a specified way for the purposes of a
tax provision;

9.2.c

the Secretary of State to be required or permitted to determine, or to specify
the method for determining, anything that needs to be determined for the
purposes of any tax provision so far as relating to anything transferred.

9.3

The provision that may be made under  sub-paragraph (1) (b)  includes, in
particular, provision for—

9.3.a

a tax provision not to apply, or to apply with modifications, in relation to
anything done for the purposes of, or in relation to, the transfer;

9.3.b

anything done for the purposes of, or in relation to, the transfer to have or
not have a specified consequence or be treated in a specified way;

9.3.c

the Secretary of State to be required or permitted to determine, or to specify
the method for determining, anything that needs to be determined for the
purposes of any tax provision so far as relating to anything done for the
purposes of, or in relation to, the transfer.

9.4

A statutory instrument containing regulations under this paragraph is subject
to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of the House of Commons.

9.5

In this paragraph—

“ relevant tax ” means income tax, corporation tax, capital gains tax, stamp
duty, stamp duty reserve tax, stamp duty land tax or value added tax; “ tax
provision ” means any provision— about a relevant tax, and made by an
enactment.

###### Power to amend transfer scheme

10

10.1

The Secretary of State may amend a transfer scheme if the Secretary of State
considers that the amendment is appropriate—

10.1.a

in preparation for or in connection with the designation of a person under
section 162 (1) ,

10.1.b

for the purpose of enabling the ISOP to carry out any of its functions, or

10.1.c

for the purpose of enabling a transferor to carry out any of its functions.

10.2

The power under  sub-paragraph (1)  is not exercisable in relation to a
transfer scheme after the end of the period of 12 months beginning with the
day on which the scheme takes effect.

10.3

Paragraphs  2  to  7  apply in relation to the amendment of a transfer scheme
as they apply in relation to a transfer scheme.

10.4

A transfer scheme may provide for a transferor or transferee under the scheme
to be entitled to compensation in consequence of the amendment of the scheme.

10.5

Paragraph  8 (2)  to  (5)  applies (with any necessary modifications) in
relation to an entitlement to compensation under  sub-paragraph (4)  as it
applies in relation to an entitlement to compensation under  paragraph 8 (1) .

###### National Security and Investment Act 2021

11

The making of a transfer scheme is not a trigger event for the purposes of the
National Security and Investment Act 2021.

##### Other provision about transfers and designation

###### Provision of information or assistance

12

12.1

The Secretary of State may direct a person within  sub-paragraph (2)  to
provide the Secretary of State with such specified information or assistance
as the Secretary of State may reasonably require—

12.1.a

in preparation for or in connection with the designation of a person under
section 162 (1) , or

12.1.b

in connection with the making of a transfer scheme.

12.2

A person is within this sub-paragraph if—

12.2.a

property, rights or liabilities are likely to be transferred from or to the
person by a transfer scheme, or

12.2.b

the person is a body corporate that is likely to be transferred under a
transfer scheme.

12.3

The Secretary of State may direct a person (other than a person within sub-
paragraph  (2) ) to provide the Secretary of State with such specified
information or assistance as the Secretary of State may reasonably require in
preparation for or in connection with the designation of a person under
section 162 (1) .

12.4

A direction under  sub-paragraph (1)  or  (3)  must—

12.4.a

be in writing, and

12.4.b

specify the sub-paragraph under which it is given.

12.5

The power to give a direction under  sub-paragraph (3)  ceases to be
exercisable—

12.5.a

at the end of the period of 3 years beginning with the time from which the
first designation under  section 162 (1)  has effect, or

12.5.b

if at any time before the end of that period a transfer scheme is made under
paragraph  1 (1) , at the end of the period of 3 years beginning with the date
(or, if there is more than one, the first date) from which the transfer of
property, rights or liabilities under the scheme takes effect.

12.6

A person to whom a direction is given under  sub-paragraph (1)  or  (3)  must,
so far as reasonably practicable, provide the Secretary of State with the
specified information or assistance—

12.6.a

within the specified period, and

12.6.b

in the specified form and manner.

12.7

A direction under  sub-paragraph (1)  or  (3)  is enforceable by the Secretary
of State in civil proceedings—

12.7.a

for an injunction,

12.7.b

for specific performance of a statutory duty under section 45 of the Court of
Session Act 1988, or

12.7.c

for any other appropriate remedy or relief.

12.8

The Secretary of State—

12.8.a

must reimburse a person in respect of costs reasonably incurred by the person
in complying with a direction under  sub-paragraph (1)  or  (3) ;

12.8.b

may reimburse a person in respect of costs reasonably incurred by the person
in complying with a request (whether made before or after the day on which
this Act is passed) to provide the Secretary of State with information
reasonably required by the Secretary of State for a purpose mentioned in sub-
paragraph  (1) (a)  or  (b) .

12.9

In this paragraph—

“ assistance ” includes assistance provided in a country or territory other
than the United Kingdom; “ information ” includes documents; “ specified ”
means specified in the direction.

###### Co-operation

13

13.1

A person within  sub-paragraph (2)  must co-operate with, and so far as
practicable must not take any step that may reasonably be expected to impede,
the Secretary of State in relation to the doing of anything by the Secretary
of State—

13.1.a

in preparation for or in connection with the first designation of a person
under  section 162 (1) , or

13.1.b

in connection with the making of a transfer scheme.

13.2

The persons within this sub-paragraph are—

13.2.a

National Grid plc and its associates (within the meaning of section 1152 of
the Companies Act 2006);

13.2.b

any person who, at any time during the period mentioned in sub-paragraph  (3)
, has acquired property, rights or liabilities from a person within  paragraph
(a)  (whether or not as a result of a transfer scheme under  paragraph 1 ).

13.3

The period mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2) (b)  is the period beginning on 20
July 2021 and ending with the first designation of a person under  section 162
(1) .

###### Reimbursement and compensation: further provision

14

14.1

The Secretary of State may reimburse a person in respect of expenditure
reasonably incurred by the person—

14.1.a

in preparation for or in connection with the designation of a person under
section 162 (1) , or

14.1.b

in connection with the making of a transfer scheme.

14.2

The Secretary of State may make regulations providing for the payment of
compensation by the Secretary of State to a person (other than the transferor
in relation to a transfer scheme) who has suffered loss or damage in
consequence of anything done by the Secretary of State in preparation for or
in connection with the designation of a person under  section 162 (1) .

Independent System Operator and Planner: pensions

Section 175

##### Introductory

1

1.1

In this Schedule—

“ active member ” has the same meaning as in section 124(1) of the Pensions
Act 1995; “ associate ” has the same meaning as in section 1152 of the
Companies Act 2006; “ member ” has the same meaning as in section 124(1) of
the Pensions Act 1995; “ prescribed ” means prescribed by regulations made by
the Secretary of State; “ qualifying accrued rights ” means— any right which,
at the relevant time, has accrued to or in respect of a qualifying member of a
qualifying pension scheme to future benefits under the scheme, any entitlement
under a qualifying pension scheme to the present payment of a pension or other
benefit that a qualifying member of the scheme has at the relevant time, or
any entitlement to benefits, or rights to future benefits, under a qualifying
pension scheme that a person who has survived a qualifying member of the
scheme has at the relevant time in respect of the member; “ qualifying member
”, in relation to a qualifying pension scheme, means a person who is or has
been a member of the scheme; “ qualifying pension scheme ” means a pension
scheme that provides for the payment of pensions or other benefits to or in
respect of employees or former employees of— a transferor in relation to a
transfer scheme under paragraph  1  of  Schedule 9 , or an associate of such a
transferor; “ the relevant time ” means the time immediately before the
prescribed date (which may be before the passing of this Act).

1.2

For the purposes of the definition of “qualifying accrued rights” in sub-
paragraph  (1) —

1.2.a

references to pensions or other benefits (including future benefits) include
money purchase benefits;

1.2.b

references to a right include a pension credit right.

1.3

In the event that a section of a qualifying pension scheme is constituted as a
separate pension scheme the members of which consist of or include persons who
are qualifying members of the qualifying pension scheme, any reference in this
Schedule to the qualifying pension scheme includes a reference to that
separate pension scheme.

##### Participation in qualifying pension schemes and transfer of assets and rights

2

2.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make such pensions provision as the
Secretary of State considers appropriate—

2.1.a

in preparation for or in connection with the designation of a person under
section 162 (1) , or

2.1.b

otherwise in connection with the making of a transfer scheme under paragraph
1  of  Schedule 9 .

2.2

“ Pensions provision ” means provision in connection with a qualifying pension
scheme, including provision for—

2.2.a

enabling an entity to which  sub-paragraph (3)  applies to participate in the
scheme;

2.2.b

the division of the scheme into different sections;

2.2.c

the participation in the different sections of different persons (including
entities to which  sub-paragraph (3)  applies);

2.2.d

the allocation of assets, rights, liabilities or obligations between the
different sections;

2.2.e

the transfer of assets and qualifying accrued rights from the scheme to
another pension scheme (whether or not a qualifying pension scheme), without
the need for any approval or consent to the transfer;

2.2.f

the valuation of assets and qualifying accrued rights in accordance with
provision made by the regulations, for the purposes of their allocation to a
particular section or for the purposes of their transfer as mentioned in
paragraph  (e) ;

2.2.g

the discharge of liabilities in respect of qualifying accrued rights that are
transferred.

2.3

This sub-paragraph applies to the following entities—

2.3.a

the ISOP;

2.3.b

an associate of the ISOP;

2.3.c

any other entity which employs a person—

2.3.c.i

whose contract of employment is transferred by a transfer scheme under
paragraph  1  of  Schedule 9 , and

2.3.c.ii

who is an active member of the qualifying pension scheme at the relevant time.

2.4

Regulations under  sub-paragraph (1)  may have retrospective effect.

2.5

Before making regulations under  sub-paragraph (1) , the Secretary of State
must consult—

2.5.a

the trustee of the qualifying pension scheme or schemes in question, and

2.5.b

the person who is the principal employer in relation to that scheme or those
schemes.

##### Amendment of qualifying pension schemes

3

3.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make such amendments of a qualifying
pension scheme as the Secretary of State considers appropriate—

3.1.a

in preparation for or in connection with the designation of a person under
section 162 (1) ,

3.1.b

otherwise in connection with the making of a transfer scheme under paragraph
1  of  Schedule 9 , or

3.1.c

in connection with the making of regulations under paragraph  2  of this
Schedule.

3.2

The provision that may be made under  sub-paragraph (1)  includes—

3.2.a

provision authorising or requiring the amount of pensions or other benefits
payable to or in respect of qualifying members of the scheme to be determined
in particular circumstances by reference to pensionable service under the
scheme in question before and after the relevant time;

3.2.b

provision for the transfer out of assets, rights, liabilities or obligations
from one or more new sections of a qualifying pension scheme to another
pension scheme (whether or not a qualifying pension scheme);

3.2.c

provision for the transfer in of assets, rights, liabilities or obligations to
one or more new sections of one qualifying pension scheme from one or more new
sections of another qualifying pension scheme.

3.3

Regulations under  sub-paragraph (1)  may have retrospective effect.

3.4

Before making regulations under  sub-paragraph (1) , the Secretary of State
must consult—

3.4.a

the trustee of the qualifying pension scheme being amended, and

3.4.b

the person who is the principal employer in relation to that scheme.

3.5

In this paragraph—

3.5.a

the reference to making amendments of a qualifying pension scheme includes a
reference to amending the trust deed or rules of that scheme or any other
instrument relating to the constitution, management or operation of the
scheme;

3.5.b

references to a “new” section of a qualifying pension scheme are to one of the
sections into which the scheme is divided by regulations under paragraph  2
(1) ;

3.5.c

“ pensionable service ” has the same meaning as in section 124(1) of the
Pensions Act 1995.

##### Protection against adverse treatment

4

4.1

When exercising the power to make regulations under paragraph  2  or  3 , the
Secretary of State must ensure that the following requirements are met in
respect of each person who is or has been a qualifying member of a qualifying
pension scheme—

4.1.a

the general scheme requirement;

4.1.b

where the regulations relate to a person’s rights or entitlements to money
purchase benefits other than pensions in payment, the money purchase
requirement.

4.2

The general scheme requirement is that the provision for the payment of
pensions or other benefits that is contained in a qualifying pension scheme or
any other pension scheme to which a transfer is made by virtue of paragraph  2
(2) (e)  is, in all material respects, at least as good immediately after the
exercise of the power as it is immediately before its exercise.

4.3

The money purchase requirement is that the value of the rights or entitlements
to money purchase benefits, other than pensions in payment, that a person has
under a qualifying pension scheme or any other pension scheme to which a
transfer is made by virtue of paragraph  2 (2) (e)  immediately after, and as
a result of, the exercise of the power is at least equivalent to the value of
the person’s rights or entitlements before its exercise.

4.4

Nothing in  sub-paragraph (1)  requires—

4.4.a

the different sections (if any) of a qualifying pension scheme to be
established in a particular way,

4.4.b

particular provisions of the sections, or of a pension scheme to which a
transfer is made by virtue of paragraph  2 (2) (e) , to take the same or
similar form, or

4.4.c

any power or duty conferred or imposed by a qualifying pension scheme to be
exercised or performed in a particular way.

4.5

The power of the Secretary of State to amend a qualifying pension scheme may
not be exercised in any way that would or might adversely affect any provision
of the scheme made in respect of qualifying accrued rights unless—

4.5.a

the applicable consent requirements are satisfied in respect of the exercise
of the power in that way, or

4.5.b

the scheme is amended in the prescribed manner.

4.6

The applicable consent requirements are the requirements that apply in
relation to obtaining the consent of members of the scheme to its amendment
(including any such requirements set out in the trust deed or rules of the
scheme).

##### Information and assistance

5

5.1

The Secretary of State may direct a person within  sub-paragraph (3)  to
provide the Secretary of State with—

5.1.a

such specified pensions information, or

5.1.b

such specified assistance,

as the Secretary of State may reasonably require in preparation for or in
connection with the exercise of a power conferred on the Secretary of State by
this Schedule.

5.2

“ Pensions information ” means information that—

5.2.a

relates to pensions or other benefits under a qualifying pension scheme, or

5.2.b

relates to the administration of a qualifying pension scheme in respect of
pensions or other benefits under the scheme.

5.3

The following persons are within this sub-paragraph—

5.3.a

the trustee of a qualifying pension scheme;

5.3.b

any person who exercises functions on behalf of a person within  paragraph (a)
;

5.3.c

any person who is or has been an employer of a qualifying member of a
qualifying pension scheme.

5.4

The power under  sub-paragraph (1)  ceases to be exercisable—

5.4.a

at the end of the period of 3 years beginning with the time from which the
first designation under  section 162 (1)  has effect, or

5.4.b

if at any time before the end of that period a transfer scheme is made under
paragraph  1 (1)  of  Schedule 9 , at the end of the period of 3 years
beginning with the date (or, if there is more than one, the first date) from
which the transfer of property, rights or liabilities under the scheme takes
effect.

5.5

A person to whom a direction is given under  sub-paragraph (1)  must, so far
as reasonably practicable, provide the Secretary of State with the specified
pensions information or assistance—

5.5.a

within the specified period, and

5.5.b

in the specified form and manner.

5.6

A direction under  sub-paragraph (1)  is enforceable by the Secretary of State
in civil proceedings—

5.6.a

for an injunction,

5.6.b

for specific performance of a statutory duty under section 45 of the Court of
Session Act 1988, or

5.6.c

for any other appropriate remedy or relief.

5.7

The Secretary of State must reimburse a person for costs reasonably incurred
by the person in complying with a direction under sub-paragraph (1).

5.8

In this paragraph, “ specified ” means specified in the direction.

##### Consultation

6

Any requirement imposed by this Schedule to carry out consultation may be
satisfied by consultation before the passing of this Act (as well as by
consultation after that time).

##### National Security and Investment Act 2021

7

The exercise by the Secretary of State of a power conferred on the Secretary
of State by any provision of this Schedule is not a trigger event for the
purposes of the National Security and Investment Act 2021.

Minor and consequential amendments relating to Part  5

Section 179

##### Gas Act 1986

1

The Gas Act 1986 is amended as follows.

2

In section 6A (exemptions from prohibition), in subsection (1), after “(c)”
insert  “, (ca)” .

##### Electricity Act 1989

3

The Electricity Act 1989 is amended as follows.

4

In section 4 (prohibition on unlicensed supply, transmission etc of
electricity), in subsection (3A)—

4.a

omit paragraph (a) (including the “or” at the end);

4.b

in paragraph (b), for “such a transmission system” substitute  “a transmission
system by means of which the transmission of electricity takes place” .

5

In section 5 (exemptions from prohibition), in subsection (1), after “(c),”
insert  “(ca),” .

6

In section 10 (powers etc of licence holders), in subsection (1)(a), after
“licence” insert  “or of an electricity system operator licence” .

7

In section 49 (keeping of register), in subsection (2)(c), after “under”
insert  “or in respect of” .

##### Utilities Act 2000

8

8.1

Section 105 of the Utilities Act 2000 (general restrictions on disclosure of
information) is amended as follows.

8.2

In subsection (1)(a), after “ Part 1 of the Energy Act 2023 ” (inserted by
paragraph 5 (a)  of  Schedule 5  to this Act) insert  “or  Part 5  of that
Act” .

8.3

In subsection (4), after paragraph (ba) insert—

8.3.bb

for the purpose of facilitating the performance by the Independent System
Operator and Planner of any of its functions;

.

8.4

In subsection (10), at the appropriate place insert—

“ the Independent System Operator and Planner ” means the person for the time
being designated under  section 162 (1)  of the Energy Act 2023;

.

Governance of gas and electricity industry codes: transitional provision

Section 200 (1)

##### Meaning of “qualifying document”, “qualifying contract” and “qualifying central system”

1

1.1

In this Schedule, “ qualifying document ” means a document that—

1.1.a

is maintained in accordance with the conditions of a relevant licence, and

1.1.b

is designated for the purposes of this Schedule by notice given by the
Secretary of State.

1.2

Where at any time after the day on which  this paragraph  comes into force the
whole or part of the provision made by a qualifying document is incorporated
into a different document (“document B”), document B is to be treated for the
purposes of this Schedule as if it were a qualifying document even if it is
not designated under  sub-paragraph (1) (b) .

1.3

In this Schedule, “ qualifying contract ” means a contract—

1.3.a

that constitutes the whole or part of the arrangements under which a
qualifying document has effect,

1.3.b

that relates to the governance of a qualifying document, or

1.3.c

that is a central system contract.

1.4

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (3) (c) , a contract is a “central system
contract” if—

1.4.a

it relates to the operation of a qualifying central system, and

1.4.b

the person responsible for operating or procuring the operation of the central
system is a party to the contract.

1.5

In this Schedule, “ qualifying central system ” means a central system that is
designated for the purposes of this Schedule by notice given by the Secretary
of State.

1.6

The Secretary of State may revoke a designation under sub-paragraph  (1) (b)
or  (5) .

1.7

The Secretary of State may not designate a document or central system under
sub-paragraph  (1) (b)  or  (5) , or revoke a designation, except so as to
give effect to a recommendation of the GEMA.

1.8

Before making a recommendation to the Secretary of State for the purposes of
sub-paragraph  (7) , the GEMA must consult such persons as it considers
appropriate.

##### Purposes for which powers under this Schedule may be exercised

2

2.1

The GEMA may exercise a power conferred on it by  paragraph 4 ,  6 ,  7 ,  8
or  11  only if the GEMA considers it appropriate to exercise the power—

2.1.a

for the purposes of or in connection with establishing the role of code
manager in respect of a document that is expected to become a designated
document,

2.1.b

in preparation for the granting of a code manager licence to a person in
respect of a designated document,

2.1.c

for the purposes of facilitating the carrying out by the GEMA of its functions
under this Part,

2.1.d

for the purposes of promoting the efficient governance of arrangements under
one or more qualifying documents (subject to sub-paragraph  (2) ), or

2.1.e

for the purposes of harmonising the governance of particular qualifying
documents or of qualifying documents in general.

2.2

Sub-paragraph  (1) (d)  does not apply to the exercise of the power conferred
by paragraph  6  in relation to a qualifying contract within paragraph  1 (3)
(b)  or  (c) .

##### Expiry of powers under this Schedule

3

The powers conferred on the GEMA by  paragraphs 4 ,  6 ,  7 ,  8  and  11  in
relation to a particular qualifying document expire—

3.a

when the document becomes a designated document, or

3.b

if earlier, at the end of the period of 7 years after the day on which this
Act is passed.

##### Modification of qualifying documents and relevant licences

4

4.1

The GEMA may modify—

4.1.a

a qualifying document;

4.1.b

the conditions of a particular relevant licence;

4.1.c

the standard conditions of relevant licences of a particular type.

4.2

Before making a modification under  sub-paragraph (1) , the GEMA must—

4.2.a

publish a notice about the proposed modification,

4.2.b

send a copy of the notice to the persons listed in  sub-paragraph (3) , and

4.2.c

consider any representations made within the period specified in the notice
about the proposed modification or the date from which it would take effect.

4.3

The persons mentioned in  sub-paragraph (2) (b)  are—

4.3.a

the Secretary of State;

4.3.b

each relevant licence holder;

4.3.c

the National Association of Citizens Advice Bureaux;

4.3.d

the Scottish Association of Citizens Advice Bureaux;

4.3.e

Consumer Scotland;

4.3.f

where the proposed modification relates to a licence for the purposes of
section 5 of the Gas Act 1986, the Health and Safety Executive;

4.3.g

such other persons as the GEMA considers appropriate.

4.4

A notice under sub-paragraph  (2)  must—

4.4.a

state that the GEMA proposes to make a modification;

4.4.b

set out the proposed modification and its effect;

4.4.c

specify the date from which the GEMA proposes that the modification will have
effect;

4.4.d

state the reasons why the GEMA proposes to make the modification.

4.5

If, after complying with sub-paragraphs  (2) to  (4)  in relation to a
modification, the GEMA decides to make a modification, it must publish a
notice about the decision.

4.6

A notice under  sub-paragraph (5)  must—

4.6.a

state that the GEMA has decided to make the modification;

4.6.b

set out the modification and its effect;

4.6.c

specify the date from which the modification has effect;

4.6.d

state how the GEMA has taken account of any representations made in the period
specified in the notice under sub-paragraph  (2) ;

4.6.e

state the reason for any differences between the modification set out in the
notice and the proposed modification.

4.7

A notice under this paragraph about a modification or decision must be
published in such manner as the GEMA considers appropriate for bringing it to
the attention of those likely to be affected by the making of the modification
or decision.

4.8

In this paragraph, “relevant licence holder”—

4.8.a

in relation to the modification of a qualifying document, means the holder of
a relevant licence in accordance with the conditions of which the document is
maintained;

4.8.b

in relation to the modification of standard conditions of relevant licences of
any type, means the holder of a relevant licence of that type—

4.8.b.i

that is to be modified by the inclusion of any new standard condition, or

4.8.b.ii

that includes any standard conditions to which the modifications relate which
are in effect during the period specified by virtue of  sub-paragraph (2) (c)
;

4.8.c

in relation to the modification of a condition of a particular relevant
licence (other than a standard condition), means the holder of that particular
relevant licence.

4.9

For the purposes of  this paragraph , “ modification ”, in relation to a
qualifying document, includes the incorporation of the whole or part of the
provision made by the document into another document.

5

5.1

Sub-paragraphs (2)  and  (3)  apply where at any time the GEMA modifies the
conditions of licences of any type under  paragraph 4 .

5.2

If the conditions modified are standard conditions, the GEMA must—

5.2.a

also make (as nearly as may be) the same modifications of those conditions for
the purposes of their incorporation in licences of that type granted after
that time, and

5.2.b

publish the modifications in such manner as it considers appropriate for the
purpose of bringing them to the attention of persons likely to be affected by
the making of the modifications.

5.3

The GEMA may make such incidental or consequential modifications of any
conditions of licences of any type as it considers necessary or expedient.

5.4

The modification of part of a standard condition of a particular licence under
paragraph 4  does not prevent any other part of the condition from continuing
to be regarded as a standard condition for the purposes of Part 1 of the
Electricity Act 1989 (in the case of a licence under section 6(1) of that Act)
or Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986 (in the case of a licence under section 7, 7ZA,
7A or 7AB of that Act).

##### Amendment or termination of qualifying contracts

6

6.1

The GEMA may amend a qualifying contract.

6.2

Before making an amendment under  sub-paragraph (1) , the GEMA must—

6.2.a

send a notice about the proposed amendment to the persons listed in  sub-
paragraph (4) , and

6.2.b

consider any representations made within the period specified in the notice
about the proposed amendment or the date from which it would take effect.

6.3

A notice under  sub-paragraph (2)  must—

6.3.a

state that the GEMA proposes to make an amendment;

6.3.b

set out the proposed amendment and its effect;

6.3.c

specify the date from which the GEMA proposes that the amendment will have
effect;

6.3.d

state the reasons why the GEMA proposes to make the amendment.

6.4

The persons mentioned in  sub-paragraph (2) (a)  are—

6.4.a

each person who is a party to the contract to which the proposed amendment
relates;

6.4.b

any person liable by virtue of paragraph  12  to make a payment by way of
compensation as a result of the proposed amendment;

6.4.c

such other persons as the GEMA considers appropriate.

6.5

If, after complying with  sub-paragraphs (2)  to  (4)  in relation to an
amendment, the GEMA decides to make an amendment, it must send a notice to the
persons listed in  sub-paragraph (4)  about the decision.

6.6

A notice under  sub-paragraph (5)  must—

6.6.a

state that the GEMA has decided to make the amendment;

6.6.b

set out the amendment and its effect;

6.6.c

specify the date from which the amendment has effect;

6.6.d

state how the GEMA has taken account of any representations made in the period
specified in the notice under  sub-paragraph (2) ;

6.6.e

state the reason for any differences between the amendment set out in the
notice and the proposed amendment.

6.7

In this paragraph, “ amend ”, in relation to a contract, includes terminate.

##### Arrangements in connection with code consolidation

7

7.1

The GEMA may, in connection with the consolidation of one or more qualifying
documents, make a scheme for the purpose of securing the continued effect of
rights or liabilities under a contract that is a qualifying contract within
paragraph  1 (3) (a) .

7.2

“ Consolidation ”, in relation to a qualifying document, means the
incorporation of the whole or part of the provision made by the document into
another document.

7.3

A scheme under this paragraph may make incidental, supplementary or
consequential provision (including provision amending the qualifying
contract).

##### Transfer schemes

8

8.1

The GEMA may make one or more schemes for the transfer of designated property,
rights or liabilities from one person (“ the transferor ”) to another person
(“ the transferee ”) where the condition in  sub-paragraph (2)  is met.

8.2

The condition is that the designated property, rights or liabilities—

8.2.a

relate to the operation of the provisions of a qualifying document, and

8.2.b

are reasonably required by the transferee for the purposes of its obligations
under a code manager licence (whether or not the licence has yet been granted
to the transferee).

8.3

On the transfer date, the designated property, rights and liabilities are
transferred and vest in accordance with the scheme.

8.4

The rights and liabilities that may be transferred by a scheme include those
arising under or in connection with a contract of employment.

8.5

A certificate by the GEMA that anything specified in the certificate has
vested in any person by virtue of a scheme is conclusive evidence for all
purposes of that fact.

8.6

A scheme may make provision—

8.6.a

for anything done by or in relation to the transferor in connection with any
property, rights or liabilities transferred by the scheme to be treated as
done, or to be continued, by or in relation to the transferee;

8.6.b

for references to the transferor in any agreement (whether written or not),
instrument or other document relating to any property, rights or liabilities
transferred by the scheme to be treated as references to the transferee;

8.6.c

about the continuation of legal proceedings;

8.6.d

for transferring property, rights or liabilities that could not otherwise be
transferred or assigned;

8.6.e

for transferring property, rights and liabilities irrespective of any
requirement for consent that would otherwise apply;

8.6.f

for preventing a right of pre-emption, right of reverter, right of forfeiture,
right to compensation or other similar right from arising or becoming
exercisable as a result of the transfer of property, rights or liabilities;

8.6.g

for dispensing with any formality in relation to the transfer of property,
rights or liabilities by the scheme;

8.6.h

for transferring property acquired, or rights or liabilities arising, after
the scheme is made but before it takes effect;

8.6.i

for apportioning property, rights or liabilities;

8.6.j

for creating rights, or imposing liabilities, in connection with property,
rights or liabilities transferred by the scheme;

8.6.k

for requiring the transferee to enter into any agreement of any kind, or for a
purpose, specified in or determined in accordance with the scheme.

8.7

Sub-paragraph (6) (b)  does not apply to references in—

8.7.a

primary legislation, or

8.7.b

an instrument made under primary legislation.

8.8

A scheme may—

8.8.a

include incidental, supplementary or consequential provision;

8.8.b

make transitory or transitional provision or savings;

8.8.c

make different provision for different purposes;

8.8.d

make provision subject to exceptions.

8.9

In this paragraph—

“ designated ”, in relation to a scheme, means specified in or determined in
accordance with the scheme; “ primary legislation ” means— an Act of
Parliament, an Act of the Scottish Parliament, an Act or Measure of Senedd
Cymru, or Northern Ireland legislation; “ property ” includes interests of any
description; “ the transfer date ” means a date specified by a scheme as the
date on which the transfer is to have effect.

9

9.1

Before making a scheme under paragraph  8 , the GEMA must consult—

9.1.a

the transferor;

9.1.b

the transferee;

9.1.c

such other persons as the GEMA considers appropriate.

9.2

The approval of the Secretary of State is required for the making of a scheme
under paragraph  8 .

10

10.1

The GEMA may modify a scheme under paragraph  8 .

10.2

The power under  sub-paragraph (1)  is not exercisable in relation to a scheme
after the end of the period of 12 months beginning with the day on which the
scheme takes effect.

10.3

Paragraphs 8  and  9  apply in relation to the modification of a scheme as
they apply in relation to the making of the scheme.

##### Information

11

11.1

The GEMA may direct a person who holds information reasonably required by the
GEMA—

11.1.a

in preparation for the granting of a code manager licence, or

11.1.b

for the purposes of or in connection with the exercise of any of the other
functions of the GEMA under  this Schedule ,

to provide the information to the GEMA.

11.2

A person to whom a direction is given under  sub-paragraph (1)  must, so far
as reasonably practicable, provide the GEMA with the information—

11.2.a

within the period specified in the direction, and

11.2.b

in the form and manner so specified.

11.3

A direction given to a person under  sub-paragraph (1)  is enforceable by the
GEMA in civil proceedings—

11.3.a

for an injunction,

11.3.b

for specific performance of a statutory duty under section 45 of the Court of
Session Act 1988, or

11.3.c

for any other appropriate remedy or relief.

##### Compensation

12

12.1

The relevant code manager must make a payment to a person within  sub-
paragraph (2)  in compensation for financial loss suffered by the person in
consequence of the exercise by the GEMA of—

12.1.a

the power under paragraph  6  in relation to a qualifying contract within
paragraph  1 (3) (b)  or  (c) , or

12.1.b

the power under paragraph  8  (transfer schemes).

12.2

The persons within this sub-paragraph are—

12.2.a

a person who is a party to a contract that is amended or terminated under
paragraph  6 ;

12.2.b

the transferor in relation to a scheme under paragraph  8 ;

12.2.c

a person, other than the transferor or transferee in relation to a scheme
under paragraph  8 , who has a right in relation to anything transferred by
the scheme.

12.3

The amount of a payment under  sub-paragraph (1)  is to be—

12.3.a

in a case relating to the exercise of the power under paragraph  6 , such
amount as the GEMA considers to be just;

12.3.b

in a case relating to the exercise of the power under  paragraph 8 , an amount
specified in or determined in accordance with provision made in the scheme in
question.

12.4

In this paragraph, “ the relevant code manager ” means—

12.4.a

in relation to the exercise of the power under paragraph  6 , the person who
holds a code manager licence in relation to the document to which the
qualifying contract in question relates;

12.4.b

in relation to the exercise of the power under  paragraph 8 , the person who
is the transferee in relation to the scheme in question.

12.5

The GEMA may in a particular case direct—

12.5.a

which person is the relevant code manager for the purposes of this paragraph;

12.5.b

that two or more persons are jointly to be the relevant code manager for those
purposes.

12.6

The Secretary of State may in a particular case direct that the duty under
sub-paragraph (1)  is to be discharged by a person specified in the direction
(instead of by the relevant code manager).

##### Other

13

Any requirement imposed by this Schedule to carry out consultation may be
satisfied by consultation before the passing of this Act (as well as by
consultation after that time).

  Governance of gas and electricity industry codes: pensions

Section 200 (2)

##### Introductory

1

1.1

In this Schedule—

      “ active member ” has the same meaning as in section 124(1) of the
Pensions Act 1995;           “ associate ” has the same meaning as in section
1152 of the Companies Act 2006;           “ member ” has the same meaning as
in section 124(1) of the Pensions Act 1995;           “ prescribed ” means
prescribed by regulations made by the GEMA;           “ qualifying accrued
rights ” means—         any right which, at the relevant time, has accrued to
or in respect of a qualifying member of a qualifying pension scheme to future
benefits under the scheme,           any entitlement under a qualifying
pension scheme to the present payment of a pension or other benefit that a
qualifying member of the scheme has at the relevant time, or           any
entitlement to benefits, or rights to future benefits, under a qualifying
pension scheme that a person who has survived a qualifying member of the
scheme has at the relevant time in respect of the member;                 “
qualifying member ”, in relation to a qualifying pension scheme, means a
person who is or has been a member of the scheme;           “ qualifying
pension scheme ” means a scheme that provides for the payment of pensions or
other benefits to or in respect of employees or former employees of—         a
transferor in relation to a scheme under paragraph  8  of  Schedule 12 , or
an associate of such a transferor;                 “ the relevant time ” means
the time immediately before the prescribed date (which may be before the
passing of this Act).

1.2

For the purposes of the definition of “qualifying accrued rights” in sub-
paragraph  (1) —

1.2.a

references to pensions or other benefits (including future benefits) include
money purchase benefits;

1.2.b

references to a right include a pension credit right.

1.3

In the event that a section of a qualifying pension scheme is constituted as a
separate pension scheme the members of which consist of or include persons who
are qualifying members of the qualifying pension scheme, any reference in this
Schedule to the qualifying pension scheme includes a reference to that
separate pension scheme.

##### Participation in qualifying pension schemes and transfer of assets and rights

2

2.1

The GEMA may by regulations make such pensions provision as it considers
appropriate in preparation for the granting of a code manager licence to a
person in respect of a designated document.

2.2

“ Pensions provision ” means provision in connection with a qualifying pension
scheme, including provision for—

2.2.a

enabling a person to participate in the scheme;

2.2.b

the division of the scheme into different sections;

2.2.c

the participation in the different sections of different persons;

2.2.d

the allocation of assets, rights, liabilities or obligations between the
different sections;

2.2.e

the transfer of assets and qualifying accrued rights from the scheme to
another pension scheme (whether or not a qualifying pension scheme), without
the need for any approval or consent to the transfer;

2.2.f

the valuation of assets and qualifying accrued rights in accordance with
provision made by the regulations, for the purposes of their allocation to a
particular section or for the purposes of their transfer as mentioned in
paragraph  (e) ;

2.2.g

the discharge of liabilities in respect of qualifying accrued rights that are
transferred.

2.3

Regulations under  sub-paragraph (1)  may have retrospective effect.

2.4

Before making regulations under  sub-paragraph (1) , the GEMA must consult—

2.4.a

the trustee of the qualifying pension scheme or schemes in question, and

2.4.b

the person who is the principal employer in relation to that scheme or those
schemes.

2.5

The approval of the Secretary of State is required for the making of
regulations under  sub-paragraph (1) .

##### Amendment of qualifying pension schemes

3

3.1

The GEMA may by regulations make such amendments of a qualifying pension
scheme as it considers appropriate—

3.1.a

in preparation for the granting of a code manager licence to a person in
respect of a designated document, or

3.1.b

in connection with the making of regulations under paragraph  2 .

3.2

The provision that may be made under  sub-paragraph (1)  includes—

3.2.a

provision authorising or requiring the amount of pensions or other benefits
payable to or in respect of qualifying members of the scheme to be determined
in particular circumstances by reference to pensionable service under the
scheme in question before and after the relevant time;

3.2.b

provision for the transfer out of assets, rights, liabilities or obligations
from one or more new sections of a qualifying pension scheme to another
pension scheme (whether or not a qualifying pension scheme);

3.2.c

provision for the transfer in of assets, rights, liabilities or obligations to
one or more new sections of one qualifying pension scheme from one or more new
sections of another qualifying pension scheme.

3.3

Regulations under  sub-paragraph (1)  may have retrospective effect.

3.4

Before making regulations under  sub-paragraph (1) , the GEMA must consult—

3.4.a

the trustee of the qualifying pension scheme being amended, and

3.4.b

the person who is the principal employer in relation to that scheme.

3.5

The approval of the Secretary of State is required for the making of
regulations under  sub-paragraph (1) .

3.6

In this paragraph—

3.6.a

the reference to making amendments of a qualifying pension scheme includes a
reference to amending the trust deed or rules of that scheme or any other
instrument relating to the constitution, management or operation of the
scheme;

3.6.b

references to a “new” section of a qualifying pension scheme are to one of the
sections into which the scheme is divided by regulations under  paragraph 2
(1) ;

3.6.c

“ pensionable service ” has the same meaning as in section 124(1) of the
Pensions Act 1995.

##### Protection against adverse treatment

4

4.1

When exercising the power to make regulations under  paragraph 2  or  3 , the
GEMA must ensure that the following requirements are met in respect of each
person who is or has been a qualifying member of a qualifying pension scheme—

4.1.a

the general scheme requirement;

4.1.b

where the regulations relate to a person’s rights or entitlements to money
purchase benefits other than pensions in payment, the money purchase
requirement.

4.2

The general scheme requirement is that the provision for the payment of
pensions or other benefits that is contained in a qualifying pension scheme or
any other pension scheme to which a transfer is made by virtue of  paragraph 2
(2) (e)  is, in all material respects, at least as good immediately after the
exercise of the power as it is immediately before its exercise.

4.3

The money purchase requirement is that the value of the rights or entitlements
to money purchase benefits, other than pensions in payment, that a person has
under a qualifying pension scheme or any other pension scheme to which a
transfer is made by virtue of paragraph  2 (2) (e)  immediately after, and as
a result of, the exercise of the power is at least equivalent to the value of
the person’s rights or entitlements before its exercise.

4.4

Nothing in  sub-paragraph (1)  requires—

4.4.a

the different sections (if any) of a qualifying pension scheme to be
established in a particular way,

4.4.b

particular provisions of the sections, or of a pension scheme to which a
transfer is made by virtue of  paragraph 2 (2) (e) , to take the same or
similar form, or

4.4.c

any power or duty conferred or imposed by a qualifying pension scheme to be
exercised or performed in a particular way.

4.5

The power of the GEMA to amend a qualifying pension scheme may not be
exercised in any way that would or might adversely affect any provision of the
scheme made in respect of qualifying accrued rights unless—

4.5.a

the applicable consent requirements are satisfied in respect of the exercise
of the power in that way, or

4.5.b

the scheme is amended in the prescribed manner.

4.6

The applicable consent requirements are the requirements that apply in
relation to obtaining the consent of members of the scheme to its amendment
(including any such requirements set out in the trust deed or rules of the
scheme).

##### Information

5

5.1

The GEMA may direct a person who holds relevant pensions information to
provide it to the GEMA.

5.2

“ Pensions information ” means specified information that—

5.2.a

relates to pensions or other benefits under a qualifying pension scheme, or

5.2.b

relates to the administration of a qualifying pension scheme in respect of
pensions or other benefits under the scheme.

5.3

A person to whom a direction is given under  sub-paragraph (1)  must, so far
as reasonably practicable, provide the specified pensions information—

5.3.a

within the specified period, and

5.3.b

in the specified form and manner.

5.4

A direction under  sub-paragraph (1)  is enforceable by the GEMA in civil
proceedings—

5.4.a

for an injunction,

5.4.b

for specific performance of a statutory duty under section 45 of the Court of
Session Act 1988, or

5.4.c

for any other appropriate remedy or relief.

5.5

In this paragraph, “ specified ” means specified in the direction.

Minor and consequential amendments relating to Part  6

Section 201

##### Gas Act 1986

1

The Gas Act 1986 is amended as follows.

2

In section 6A(1) (power to grant exemptions from prohibition), for “or (d)”
substitute  “, (d) or (e)” .

3

3.1

Section 28 (orders for securing compliance with certain provisions) is amended
as follows.

3.2

In subsection (8), in the definition of “regulated person”, after paragraph
(f) insert—

3.2.g

a responsible body for a central system;

.

3.3

After subsection (8) insert—

3.3.8A

In paragraph (g) of the definition of “regulated person” in subsection (8),
the reference to a responsible body for a central system is a reference to a
person for the time being specified in a notice under  section 184 (1)  of the
Energy Act 2023 in relation to a designated central system (within the meaning
of  Part 6  of that Act).

4

In Schedule 4B (provisions imposing obligations enforceable as relevant
requirements), after paragraph 9A insert—

######### Responsible bodies for central systems

4.9B

4.9B.1

Section 194 (3)  of the Energy Act 2023 is a relevant provision in relation to
a responsible body for a central system.

4.9B.2

The reference in sub-paragraph (1) to a responsible body for a central system
is a reference to a person for the time being specified in a notice under
section 184 (1)  of the Energy Act 2023 in relation to a designated central
system (within the meaning of  Part 6  of that Act).

##### Electricity Act 1989

5

The Electricity Act 1989 is amended as follows.

6

In section 5(1) (power to grant exemptions from prohibition), for “or (e)”
substitute  “, (e) or (f)” .

7

7.1

Section 25 (orders for securing compliance) is amended as follows.

7.2

In subsection (8), in the definition of “regulated person”, after paragraph
(d) insert—

7.2.da

a responsible body for a central system;

;

7.3

After subsection (8) insert—

7.3.8A

In paragraph (da) of the definition of “regulated person” in subsection (8),
the reference to a responsible body for a central system is a reference to a
person for the time being specified in a notice under  section 184 (1)  of the
Energy Act 2023 in relation to a designated central system (within the meaning
of  Part 6  of that Act).

8

In Schedule 6A (provisions imposing obligations enforceable as relevant
requirements), after paragraph 9 insert—

######### Responsible bodies for central systems

8.9ZA

8.9ZA.1

Section 194 (3)  of the Energy Act 2023 is a relevant provision in relation to
a responsible body for a central system.

8.9ZA.2

The reference in sub-paragraph (1) to a responsible body for a central system
is a reference to a person for the time being specified in a notice under
section 184 (1)  of the Energy Act 2023 in relation to a designated central
system (within the meaning of  Part 6  of that Act).

##### Energy Act 2004

9

The Energy Act 2004 is amended as follows.

10

In section 173 (appeals to the Competition and Markets Authority), after
subsection (2B) insert—

10.2C

This section also applies to a decision by GEMA to modify a designated
document (within the meaning of  Part 6  of the Energy Act 2023) under
section 192  of that Act.

11

11.1

Schedule 22 (procedure for appeals under section 173) is amended as follows.

11.2

In paragraph 4 (time limit for representations and observations)—

11.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for the words from “fifteen working days” to the end
substitute  “the relevant period” ;

11.2.b

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

11.2.b.1A

“ The relevant period ” means—

11.2.b.1A.a

15 working days following the day of the making of the application for
permission to bring the appeal, or

11.2.b.1A.b

such longer period following that day as an authorised member of the CMA may
allow.

;

11.2.c

in sub-paragraph (2), for “that period of fifteen working days” substitute
“the relevant period” .

11.3

In paragraph 6 (timetable for determination of appeal)—

11.3.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for “thirty working days” substitute  “4 months” ;

11.3.b

in sub-paragraph (2)—

11.3.b.i

for “thirty working days” substitute  “4 months” ;

11.3.b.ii

for “ten more working days” substitute  “1 month” .

##### Energy Act 2023

12

In  section 89 —

12.a

in subsection  (1) (a) —

12.a.i

after “7”, insert  “or 7AC” ;

12.a.ii

after “transporters” insert  “or code manager licence” ;

12.b

in subsection  (1) (c) , after “7” insert  “or 7AC” .

  Competitive tenders for electricity projects

Section 203

##### Amendments of Electricity Act 1989

1

The Electricity Act 1989 is amended as follows.

2

After section 6B insert—

######### Meaning of “relevant electricity project”, “relevant licence” and “relevant contract”

2.6BA

2.6BA.1

In this Part, “ relevant electricity project ” means a project—

2.6BA.1.a

that relates to the total system, an electricity interconnector or a multi-
purpose interconnector, and

2.6BA.1.b

in relation to which criteria specified in regulations made by the Secretary
of State are satisfied.

2.6BA.2

In subsection  (1) (a) , “ the total system ” means all transmission systems
and distribution systems in Great Britain and offshore waters.

2.6BA.3

In this Part, “ relevant licence ” means—

2.6BA.3.a

a transmission licence that does not authorise the licence holder to co-
ordinate and direct the flow of electricity as described in section 4(3A)(a);

2.6BA.3.b

a generation licence, a distribution licence, an interconnector licence or an
MPI licence.

2.6BA.4

In this Part, “ relevant contract ” means a contract, entered into by a person
with the holder of a transmission licence, a system operator electricity
licence or a distribution licence (referred to in this Part as a “ contract
counterparty ”), for the carrying out of a relevant electricity project.

2.6BA.5

Regulations under this section may make different provision for different
purposes.

2.6BA.6

Before making regulations under this section, the Secretary of State must
consult—

2.6BA.6.a

the Authority,

2.6BA.6.b

such holders of relevant licences as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate, and

2.6BA.6.c

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

######### Designation of a delivery body

2.6BB

2.6BB.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations designate a person for the purposes
of this section; and a person so designated is referred to in this Part as a “
delivery body ”.

2.6BB.2

The designation of a person for the purposes of this section has effect
subject to any conditions imposed by the Secretary of State in the regulations
designating the person.

2.6BB.3

More than one person may be designated for the purposes of this section at the
same time.

2.6BB.4

Regulations under this section may designate different persons for different
purposes.

2.6BB.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations revoke a person’s designation if the
person ceases to meet any condition subject to which the designation has
effect.

2.6BB.6

The Secretary of State may make indemnity payments to a delivery body (subject
to subsection  (9) ).

2.6BB.7

An indemnity payment is a payment in respect of costs or expenses incurred by
a delivery body in connection with judicial review proceedings in relation to
anything done, or omitted to be done, in the exercise (or purported exercise)
of functions conferred on the body by regulations under section  6C .

2.6BB.8

An indemnity payment may be made subject to such conditions as may be
determined by the Secretary of State.

2.6BB.9

Subsection  (6)  does not authorise the making of a payment to the Authority
(where it is designated under subsection  (1) ).

3

For sections 6C and 6D substitute—

######### Competitive tenders

3.6C

3.6C.1

The Authority may by regulations (“ tender regulations ”) make such provision
as appears to it to be appropriate for facilitating the making by a delivery
body of—

3.6C.1.a

a decision whether to hold a tender exercise in relation to a relevant
electricity project;

3.6C.1.b

in prescribed circumstances, a determination on a competitive basis of any of
the matters listed in subsection  (2) .

3.6C.2

Those matters are—

3.6C.2.a

the person by whom a relevant electricity project is to be carried out;

3.6C.2.b

the person to whom a relevant licence is to be granted (whether for the
purposes of a relevant electricity project or otherwise);

3.6C.2.c

the person to whom a relevant contract is to be awarded.

3.6C.3

The provision mentioned in subsection  (1)  includes—

3.6C.3.a

provision for the Authority to determine, in prescribed cases, whether a
tender exercise should be held, or continued, in relation to a relevant
electricity project;

3.6C.3.b

provision for the publication, in prescribed cases, of a proposal for a
relevant licence to be granted or for a relevant contract to be awarded;

3.6C.3.c

provision for the inclusion in such a proposal of an invitation to apply for
such a licence or to bid for such a contract;

3.6C.3.d

provision restricting applications and bids and imposing requirements as to
the period within which they must be made;

3.6C.3.e

provision for regulating the manner in which applications and bids are
considered and determined.

3.6C.4

The provision mentioned in subsection  (1)  also includes—

3.6C.4.a

provision conferring functions on a delivery body;

3.6C.4.b

provision authorising the Authority to conduct a review of the exercise by a
delivery body of functions conferred on it by the regulations;

3.6C.4.c

provision authorising the Authority to appoint another person to conduct such
a review on the Authority’s behalf.

3.6C.5

The provision that may be made by virtue of subsection  (4) (a)  includes
provision requiring a delivery body, in prescribed circumstances, to provide
information about prescribed matters to the Authority.

3.6C.6

Tender regulations—

3.6C.6.a

may make provision by reference to a determination by the Authority or by a
delivery body, or to the opinion of the Authority or of a delivery body, as to
any matter;

3.6C.6.b

may dispense with or supplement provision made in relation to applications for
relevant licences by or under section 6A or 6B.

3.6C.7

The approval of the Secretary of State is required for the making of tender
regulations.

3.6C.8

The making of a determination by virtue of subsection  (2) (b)  or  (c)  that
a person is to be granted a relevant licence or awarded a relevant contract
does not of itself require—

3.6C.8.a

the Authority to exercise its power to grant a relevant licence to the person,
or

3.6C.8.b

a contract counterparty to award a relevant contract to the person,

(as the case may be).

######### Power to require information

3.6CA

3.6CA.1

Tender regulations may include provision authorising a person to whom
subsection  (2)  applies (“ P ”), by notice given to another person (an
“information notice”), to require the other person to provide relevant
information to P.

3.6CA.2

This subsection applies to—

3.6CA.2.a

the Authority;

3.6CA.2.b

a delivery body;

3.6CA.2.c

a contract counterparty.

3.6CA.3

“ Relevant information ” means information that P reasonably requires for the
purposes of or in connection with the exercise of P’s functions.

3.6CA.4

References in this section to the Authority include a person appointed by the
Authority by virtue of section  6C (4) (c) , where the information sought
relates to a function conferred by virtue of section  6C (4) (b)  (review of
activities of delivery body).

3.6CA.5

Provision made by virtue of subsection  (1)  must require an information
notice—

3.6CA.5.a

to specify or describe the information sought, and

3.6CA.5.b

to specify the time by which the information must be provided.

3.6CA.6

Provision made by virtue of subsection  (1)  may include provision—

3.6CA.6.a

for an information notice and information obtained in pursuance of it to be
shared with the Authority, where the notice is given by a person other than
the Authority;

3.6CA.6.b

for the classification and protection of confidential or sensitive
information;

3.6CA.6.c

for the enforcement by the Authority of a requirement to provide information
in pursuance of an information notice;

3.6CA.6.d

for the amount of any financial penalty imposed on a person by virtue of
paragraph  (c)  to be determined by the Authority in accordance with tender
regulations.

3.6CA.7

Where by virtue of  subsection (6) (c)  tender regulations provide for the
imposition of a financial penalty, they must also include provision for a
right of appeal against the imposition of the penalty.

######### Recovery of tender costs

3.6CB

3.6CB.1

Tender regulations may include provision requiring—

3.6CB.1.a

the payment to the Authority or a delivery body, in prescribed circumstances,
of amounts in respect of—

3.6CB.1.a.i

tender costs of the Authority, or of the delivery body, in relation to a
tender exercise;

3.6CB.1.a.ii

such amounts in respect of the Authority’s tender costs as the Authority
considers appropriate, where those costs are not attributable to a particular
tender exercise;

3.6CB.1.a.iii

such amounts in respect of the delivery body’s tender costs as the Authority
considers appropriate, where those costs are not attributable to a particular
tender exercise.

3.6CB.1.b

the provision to the Authority or to a delivery body, in prescribed
circumstances, of a deposit of a prescribed amount in respect of a liability
which a person has, or may in future have, by virtue of paragraph  (a)  in
relation to a relevant licence or relevant contract;

3.6CB.1.c

the provision to the Authority or to a delivery body, in prescribed
circumstances, of security in a form approved by it in respect of such a
liability.

3.6CB.2

The provision that may be made by virtue of subsection  (1) (a)  includes
provision requiring the payment of cost assessment costs incurred by—

3.6CB.2.a

the Authority, or

3.6CB.2.b

the delivery body,

after the Authority or delivery body (as the case may be) has taken the steps
required by virtue of subsections  (7)  to  (9)  in relation to the tender
exercise.

3.6CB.3

The regulations may require the payments to be made, or the deposit or
security to be provided, by one or more of the following—

3.6CB.3.a

any person who has made a connection request for the purposes of which the
tender exercise has been, is being, or is to be, held;

3.6CB.3.b

any person who made a connection request for the purposes of which any
previous tender exercise relating to the same transmission system, or a
transmission system consisting of some or all of the same lines or plant or
connecting any of the same generating stations or substations, was held;

3.6CB.3.c

any person who made a connection request for the purposes of which any
previous tender exercise relating to the same distribution system, or a
distribution system consisting of some or all of the same lines or plant or
connecting any of same premises or other distribution systems, was held;

3.6CB.3.d

any person who operates a generating station which is connected to the
transmission or distribution system to which the tender exercise relates;

3.6CB.3.e

any person who submits an application for the relevant licence or bids for the
award of a relevant contract to which the tender exercise relates;

3.6CB.3.f

any person who is the holder of a transmission licence, a distribution
licence, an interconnector licence or an MPI licence.

3.6CB.4

The regulations may make provision about how—

3.6CB.4.a

payments are to be made, and

3.6CB.4.b

deposits or other forms of security are to be provided,

including provision for them to be made or provided by a person approved by
the Authority or by a delivery body.

3.6CB.5

The regulations may include provision about—

3.6CB.5.a

the times at which payments are to be made, or deposits or other forms of
security are to be provided, under the regulations;

3.6CB.5.b

the circumstances in which a payment made in accordance with regulations made
by virtue of subsection  (1) (a)  is to be repaid (wholly or in part);

3.6CB.5.c

the circumstances in which such a repayment is to include an amount
representing interest accrued on the whole or part of the payment;

3.6CB.5.d

the circumstances in which a deposit (including any interest accrued on it) or
other security provided in accordance with the regulations is to be released
or forfeited (wholly or in part);

3.6CB.5.e

the effect on a person’s participation in the tender exercise of a failure to
comply with a requirement imposed by virtue of this section, and the
circumstances in which the tender exercise is to stop as a result of such a
failure.

3.6CB.6

The regulations may include provision for—

3.6CB.6.a

the review by the Authority, or by a person appointed by the Authority, of any
tender costs determined by a delivery body;

3.6CB.6.b

the amendment by a delivery body of its tender costs following such a review.

3.6CB.7

The regulations must ensure that, as soon as reasonably practicable after a
tender exercise or series of tender exercises is finished—

3.6CB.7.a

where the Authority is the delivery body, steps are taken by the Authority, in
accordance with the regulations, to ensure that the aggregate of the amounts
in subsection  (9)  does not exceed the Authority’s tender costs in respect of
the exercise or series of exercises;

3.6CB.7.b

in any other case, steps are taken by the delivery body, in accordance with
the regulations, to ensure that the aggregate of the amounts in subsection
(9)  does not exceed the aggregate of—

3.6CB.7.b.i

the Authority’s tender costs, and

3.6CB.7.b.ii

the delivery body’s tender costs,

in respect of the exercise or series of exercises.

3.6CB.8

The regulations must also ensure that, in a case within subsection  (7) (b) ,
the aggregate of the amounts within subsection  (9)  so far as relating to any
particular tender exercise does not include any amount that falls within
paragraph (a) of the definition of tender costs in section  6CD (4)  in
relation to a different tender exercise.

3.6CB.9

The amounts are—

3.6CB.9.a

any fees under section 6A(2) in respect of applications for relevant licences,

3.6CB.9.b

any payments made or deposits provided in accordance with regulations made by
virtue of subsection  (1) (a)  or  (b)  and not repaid, and

3.6CB.9.c

the value of any security provided in accordance with regulations made by
virtue of subsection  (1) (c)  and forfeited in accordance with regulations
made by virtue of subsection  (5) (d) ,

so far as relating to the tender exercise or series of tender exercises in
question.

######### Competitive tenders: supplementary

3.6CC

3.6CC.1

For the purposes of section  6CB (3) , a person makes a connection request
when the person makes an application to—

3.6CC.1.a

the holder of a co-ordination licence (in accordance with any provision made
by the licence) for an offer of connection to and use of a transmission
system, or

3.6CC.1.b

an electricity distributor (whether in accordance with any provision made by
the distributor’s licence or otherwise) for an offer of connection to and use
of the distributor’s distribution system.

3.6CC.2

A person (“ P ”) is to be treated for those purposes as having made a
connection request if—

3.6CC.2.a

P would have made the connection request, but for the fact that another person
had already made an application within subsection  (1) (a)  or  (b) , and

3.6CC.2.b

the benefit of that application, or any agreement resulting from it, is vested
in P.

3.6CC.3

Where tender regulations—

3.6CC.3.a

restrict the making of applications for relevant licences or bids for relevant
contracts in relation to a relevant electricity project, or

3.6CC.3.b

operate so as to prevent an application or bid from being considered or
further considered, if the applicant does not meet one or more prescribed
requirements,

the regulations may make provision enabling a person to apply to a relevant
body for a decision as to the effect of any such restriction or requirement if
the person were to make such an application or bid.

3.6CC.4

Regulations made by virtue of subsection  (3)  may enable a relevant body to
charge a person who makes such an application or bid a prescribed fee for any
decision given in response to it.

3.6CC.5

Where the successful bidder, in relation to a tender exercise, already holds a
relevant licence (“ the existing licence ”)—

3.6CC.5.a

the Authority may make such modifications of the existing licence as are
necessary for the purpose of giving effect to the determination resulting from
the tender exercise, and

3.6CC.5.b

references in this Part to the grant of a relevant licence are to be read
accordingly.

3.6CC.6

Before making any modifications under subsection  (5) (a) , the Authority must
give notice—

3.6CC.6.a

stating that it proposes to make the modifications and setting out their
effect, and

3.6CC.6.b

specifying the time (not being less than 28 days from the date of publication
of the notice) within which representations or objections with respect to the
proposed modifications may be made,

and must consider any representations or objections that are duly made and not
withdrawn.

3.6CC.7

Any sums received by the Authority under tender regulations are to be paid
into the Consolidated Fund.

3.6CC.8

In section  6CB  and this section—

      “ co-ordination licence ” means a transmission licence which authorises
a person to co-ordinate and direct the flow of electricity onto and over a
transmission system—         by means of which the transmission of electricity
takes place, and           the whole or a part of which is at a relevant place
(within the meaning of section 4(5));                 “ functions ” includes
powers and duties;           “ relevant body ” means the Authority, a delivery
body or a contract counterparty.

######### Sections 

3.6CD

3.6CD.1

This section defines expressions that are used in sections  6C  to  6CC  (as
well as in this section).

3.6CD.2

“ Prescribed ” means prescribed in or determined under tender regulations.

3.6CD.3

“ Tender exercise ” means the steps taken in accordance with tender
regulations with a view to determining one or more of the following—

3.6CD.3.a

the person by whom a relevant electricity project is to be carried out;

3.6CD.3.b

the person to whom a relevant licence is to be granted;

3.6CD.3.c

the person to whom a relevant contract is to be awarded.

3.6CD.4

“ Tender costs ” means—

3.6CD.4.a

costs (including any cost assessment costs) incurred or likely to be incurred
by the Authority for the purposes of a particular tender exercise or
prospective tender exercise;

3.6CD.4.b

costs (including any cost assessment costs) incurred or likely to be incurred
by a delivery body for the purposes of a particular tender exercise or
prospective tender exercise;

3.6CD.4.c

such proportion as the Authority considers appropriate of the costs that—

3.6CD.4.c.i

have been, or are likely to be, incurred by the Authority or by a delivery
body under regulations under section  6C , and

3.6CD.4.c.ii

are not directly attributable to a particular tender exercise.

3.6CD.5

“ Cost assessment costs ”, in relation to a tender exercise, means costs
incurred or likely to be incurred by the Authority or by a delivery body in
connection with any assessment of—

3.6CD.5.a

costs that have been or are to be incurred in connection with any property,
rights or liabilities necessary or expedient for the performance by a person
of functions under a relevant licence granted or a relevant contract awarded
to the person as a result of the tender exercise;

3.6CD.5.b

costs incurred in connection with any property, rights or liabilities that
would have been necessary or expedient for the performance of functions under
a relevant licence or a relevant contract if such a licence or contract had
been granted or awarded to a person as a result of the tender exercise.

3.6CD.6

“ Successful bidder ”, in relation to a tender exercise, is the person in
respect of whom (as a result of the exercise) any of the following applies—

3.6CD.6.a

a delivery body determines that a relevant electricity project is to be
carried out by the person;

3.6CD.6.b

a relevant licence has been or is to be granted to the person;

3.6CD.6.c

a relevant contract has been or is to be awarded to the person.

3.6CD.7

Section  6C (8)  applies for the purposes of subsections  (3) (b)  and  (c)
and  (6) (b)  and  (c)  as it applies for the purposes of section  6C (2) (b)
and  (c) .

4

In section 6E (property schemes)—

4.a

for “offshore transmission licences” substitute  “relevant licences and awards
of relevant contracts” ;

4.b

in the heading, for “offshore transmission licences” substitute  “relevant
licences and contracts” .

5

5.1

Section 6F (offshore transmission during commissioning period) is amended as
follows.

5.2

In subsection (2), for “an offshore” substitute  “a” .

5.3

In subsection (4)—

5.3.a

at the beginning insert  “In relation to an offshore transmission system,” ;

5.3.b

in paragraph (a), for “the tender regulations” substitute  “offshore
transmission tender regulations” .

5.4

After subsection (4) insert—

5.4.4A

In relation to a transmission system other than an offshore transmission
system, the third condition is that—

5.4.4A.a

either—

5.4.4A.a.i

a tender exercise for the granting of a relevant licence in respect of the
system has been or is being held, or

5.4.4A.a.ii

a delivery body has determined to hold a tender exercise for the granting of a
relevant licence in respect of the system, and

5.4.4A.b

the system, or anything forming part of it, has not been transferred to the
successful bidder.

5.5

In subsection (8)—

5.5.a

in the definition of “developer”, for the words from “section 6D(2)(a)” to the
end substitute  “section  6CB (3) (a)  or  (b)  (person who makes the
connection request, including any person who is to be so treated by virtue of
section 6CC (2) ” ;

5.5.b

for the definitions of “offshore transmission” and “offshore transmission
licence” substitute—

      “ offshore transmission ” means the transmission within an area of
offshore waters of electricity generated by a generating station in such an
area;           “ offshore transmission licence ” means a transmission licence
authorising anything that forms part of a transmission system to be used for
purposes connected with offshore transmission;           “ offshore
transmission tender regulations ” means tender regulations that provide for
the determination on a competitive basis of the person to whom an offshore
transmission licence is to be granted;

;

5.5.c

for the definitions of “successful bidder” and “tender exercise” substitute—

      “ tender exercise ” has the meaning given by section  6CD (3) ;

;

5.5.d

in the definition of “relevant generating station”, for “an offshore”
substitute  “a” ;

5.5.e

for the definition of “the tender regulations” substitute—

      “ tender regulations ” has the meaning given by section  6C (1) .

5.6

In the heading omit “Offshore”.

6

6.1

Section 6G (meaning of “ commissioning period ”) is amended as follows.

6.2

In subsection (1), for “an offshore” substitute  “a” .

6.3

Omit subsections (3) to (5).

6.4

For subsection (6) substitute—

6.4.6

In this section—

      “ co-ordination licence ” means a transmission licence which authorises
a person to co-ordinate and direct the flow of electricity onto and over a
transmission system by means of which the transmission of electricity takes
place and the whole or part of which is at a place in Great Britain, in the
territorial sea adjacent to Great Britain or in a Renewable Energy Zone;
“ relevant co-ordination licence holder ” means the holder of a co-ordination
licence to whom a person has applied (in accordance with any provision made by
that licence) for an offer of connection to and use of a transmission system
for the purposes of which the tender exercise is held.

7

7.1

Section 6H (modification of codes or agreements) is amended as follows.

7.2

In subsection (1), for “a transmission licence or a distribution licence”
substitute  “a relevant licence” .

7.3

For subsection (2) substitute—

7.3.2

The Authority may make a modification under subsection (1) only if it
considers it necessary or desirable for the purpose of—

7.3.2.a

implementing, or facilitating the implementation of, a determination made in
accordance with regulations under section 6C, or

7.3.2.b

implementing or facilitating the operation of section 6F or 6G.

7.4

For subsection (4) substitute—

7.4.4

Before making a modification under subsection (1) the Authority must—

7.4.4.a

consult such persons as the Authority considers appropriate, and

7.4.4.b

publish a notice—

7.4.4.b.i

stating that it proposes to make the modification and its reasons for
proposing to make it,

7.4.4.b.ii

setting out the proposed modification and its effect, and

7.4.4.b.iii

specifying the time within which representations may be made (which must not
be less than the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which the notice
is published).

7.5

In subsection (5), for “the Energy Act 2013” substitute  “the Energy Act 2023”
.

7.6

In subsection (7), after “subsection” insert  “(4) or” .

7.7

Omit subsection (8).

7.8

In the heading, after “Sections” insert  “6C,” .

8

In section 11A (modification of conditions of licences), after subsection (9)
insert—

8.9A

This section does not apply to the modification of a licence in exercise of
the power under section  6CC (5) (a)  (modification of licence to give effect
to determination on a tender exercise).

9

In section 64(1) (interpretation etc of Part 1), at the appropriate places
insert—

      “ contract counterparty ” has the meaning given by section  6BA ;

;

      “ delivery body ” has the meaning given by section  6BB ;

;

      “ offshore transmission ” and “offshore transmission licence” have the
meaning given by section 6F(8);

;

      offshore waters ” means—         waters in or adjacent to Great Britain
which are between the mean low water mark and the seaward limits of the
territorial sea, and           waters within an area designated under section
1(7) of the Continental Shelf Act 1964;

;

      “ relevant contract ” and “relevant licence” have the meaning given by
section  6BA ;

;

      “ relevant electricity project ” has the meaning given by section  6BA ;

;

      “ relevant licence ” has the meaning given by section  6BA ;

.

10

Schedule 2A (property schemes) is amended in accordance with paragraphs  11
to  24 .

11

For paragraph 1 substitute—

######### Scheme-making power

11.1

11.1.1

This paragraph applies where a tender exercise is held in relation to a
relevant electricity project, a relevant licence or a relevant contract.

11.1.2

The Authority may, on an application under paragraph 3, make a scheme (“a
property scheme”) providing for—

11.1.2.a

the transfer to the successful bidder of, or

11.1.2.b

the creation in favour of the successful bidder of rights in relation to,

any property, rights or liabilities necessary or expedient for construction,
commissioning or operational purposes.

12

In paragraph 2, at the end insert—

12.5

A property scheme may not contain provision for the transfer of, or creation
of rights in relation to, property, rights or liabilities that the Authority
considers it appropriate for the successful bidder to acquire by other means.

13

Omit paragraph 5.

14

In paragraph 12, for “operational purposes” substitute  “construction,
commissioning or operational purposes”  in each of the following places—

14.a

sub-paragraphs (1) to (3);

14.b

sub-paragraph (10);

14.c

sub-paragraph (11) (in both places).

15

For paragraph 13 substitute—

15.13

On an application for a property scheme, no scheme may be made until either a
relevant licence has been granted or a relevant contract has been awarded to
the successful bidder.

16

In paragraph 14—

16.a

in sub-paragraph (4), for “operational purposes” substitute  “construction,
commissioning or operational purposes” ;

16.b

in sub-paragraph (6), after paragraph (a) insert—

16.b.aa

a delivery body,

16.b.ab

a contract counterparty,

.

17

In paragraph 15(2), for “operational purposes” substitute  “construction,
commissioning or operational purposes” .

18

Omit paragraph 16(1)(d).

19

In paragraph 25(2), for “operational purposes” substitute  “construction,
commissioning or operational purposes” .

20

In paragraph 30, for “operational purposes” substitute  “construction,
commissioning or operational purposes” .

21

21.1

Paragraph 35 is amended as follows.

21.2

In sub-paragraph (2), for “the offshore transmission licence” substitute  “a
relevant licence” .

21.3

After sub-paragraph (2) insert—

21.3.2A

Where a tender exercise is held, as soon as a contract counterparty is
satisfied that it will enter into a relevant contract with a particular person
if certain matters are resolved to the counterparty’s satisfaction, it must
publish a notice to that effect.

21.4

In sub-paragraph (3), for “The notice” substitute  “A notice under sub-
paragraph (2) or (2A)” .

21.5

After sub-paragraph (4) insert—

21.5.4A

A contract counterparty may withdraw a notice given by it under sub-paragraph
(2A) by publishing a notice to that effect.

21.6

In sub-paragraph (5), after “(2)” insert  “or (2A)” .

22

In paragraph 36—

22.a

omit sub-paragraph (1);

22.b

for sub-paragraph (2) substitute—

22.b.2

Where as a result of a tender exercise the Authority determines to grant a
relevant licence to a person, it must publish a notice to that effect.

22.b.2A

Where as a result of a tender exercise a person is awarded a relevant
contract, the contract counterparty with which the contract is to be entered
into must publish a notice to that effect.

.

23

After paragraph 36 insert—

######### Transmission owner and distribution network owner of last resort

23.36A

23.36A.1

Before directing the holder of a transmission licence to act as a transmission
owner of last resort pursuant to the conditions of the licence, the Authority
may publish a notice—

23.36A.1.a

stating that it proposes to give the direction, and

23.36A.1.b

identifying the licence holder to whom it proposes to give the direction.

23.36A.2

Where a notice is published under sub-paragraph  (1) , this Schedule has
effect as if—

23.36A.2.a

the licence holder is the preferred bidder in relation to a tender exercise,
and

23.36A.2.b

the notice is one published under paragraph 35(2), identifying the licence
holder as the preferred bidder.

23.36A.3

Paragraph 35(4) applies in relation to a notice published under sub-paragraph
(1)  of this paragraph as it applies to a notice published under paragraph
35(2).

23.36A.4

Where the Authority directs the holder of a transmission licence to act as a
transmission owner of last resort pursuant to the conditions of the licence,
this Schedule has effect as if—

23.36A.4.a

the licence holder is the holder of a transmission licence granted as a result
of a tender exercise in which the licence holder was the successful bidder,
and

23.36A.4.b

a notice has been published under paragraph 36 identifying the licence holder
as the successful bidder in relation to the tender exercise.

23.36B

23.36B.1

Before directing the holder of a distribution licence to act as a distribution
network owner of last resort pursuant to the conditions of the licence, the
Authority may publish a notice—

23.36B.1.a

stating that it proposes to give the direction, and

23.36B.1.b

identifying the licence holder to whom it proposes to give the direction.

23.36B.2

Where a notice is published under sub-paragraph  (1) , this Schedule has
effect as if—

23.36B.2.a

the licence holder is the preferred bidder in relation to a tender exercise,
and

23.36B.2.b

the notice is one published under paragraph 35(2), identifying the licence
holder as the preferred bidder.

23.36B.3

Paragraph 35(4) applies in relation to a notice published under sub-paragraph
(1)  of this paragraph as it applies to a notice published under paragraph
35(2).

23.36B.4

Where the Authority directs the holder of a distribution licence to act as a
distribution network owner of last resort pursuant to the conditions of the
licence, this Schedule has effect as if—

23.36B.4.a

the licence holder is the holder of a distribution licence granted as a result
of a tender exercise in which the licence holder was the successful bidder,
and

23.36B.4.b

a notice has been published under paragraph 36 identifying the licence holder
as the successful bidder in relation to the tender exercise.

24

In paragraph 38(1)—

24.a

at the appropriate place insert—

      “ construction, commissioning or operational purposes ” means the
purposes of performing any functions which the successful bidder has, or may
in future have under or by virtue of—         a relevant licence which has
been, or is to be, granted as a result of the tender exercise,           a
relevant contract which has been, or is to be, awarded as a result of the
tender exercise, or           any enactment, in the successful bidder’s
capacity as holder of the relevant licence or party to the relevant contract;

;

24.b

omit the definitions of “co-ordination licence” and “relevant place”;

24.c

omit the definition of “operational purposes”;

24.d

for the definition of “successful bidder” substitute—

      “ successful bidder ”, in relation to a tender exercise, has the meaning
given by section  6CD (6) ;

;

24.e

for the definition of “tender exercise” substitute—

      “ tender exercise ” has the meaning given by section  6CD (3) ;

.

25

25.1

In Schedule 4 (powers of licence holders), paragraph 6 is amended as follows.

25.2

In sub-paragraph (1)—

25.2.a

in paragraph (a), after “licence holder” insert  “to obtain the right” ;

25.2.b

omit “for the licence holder”.

25.3

After sub-paragraph (7) insert—

25.3.7A

A necessary wayleave granted to a licence holder under this paragraph may be
transferred to another licence holder.

##### Other amendments

###### Utilities Act 2000

26

26.1

Section 105 of the Utilities Act 2000 (general restrictions on disclosure of
information) is amended as follows.

26.2

In subsection (3), after paragraph (ac) insert—

26.2.ad

it is made for the purpose of facilitating any functions of the Authority, a
delivery body or a contract counterparty (within the meaning of Part 1 of the
1989 Act) under regulations under section  6C  of that Act;

.

  Mergers of energy network enterprises

Section 204

##### Further duties of Competition and Markets Authority to make references

1

Part 3 of the Enterprise Act 2002 (mergers) is amended as follows.

2

After section 68 insert—

######### Mergers of energy network enterprises in Great Britain

########## Relevant merger situations involving energy network mergers

2.68A

2.68A.1

For the purposes of this Part, a relevant merger situation involves an energy
network merger if two or more of the enterprises that cease to be distinct are
energy network enterprises of the same type.

2.68A.2

For the purposes of this Part, the types of “energy network enterprise” are—

2.68A.2.a

an enterprise holding a licence under section 7 of the Gas Act 1986 (gas
transporter);

2.68A.2.b

an enterprise holding a licence under section 6(1)(b) of the Electricity Act
1989 (transmission of electricity), except as mentioned in subsection  (3) ;

2.68A.2.c

an enterprise holding a licence under section 6(1)(c) of the Electricity Act
1989 (distribution of electricity), except as mentioned in subsection  (3) .

2.68A.3

An enterprise holding a licence under section 6(1)(b) or (c) of the
Electricity Act 1989 is not an energy network enterprise if—

2.68A.3.a

the licence was granted following a tender exercise, and

2.68A.3.b

either—

2.68A.3.b.i

the enterprise does not hold any other licence of a type mentioned in
subsection  (2) , or

2.68A.3.b.ii

the enterprise holds one or more other licences under section 6(1)(b) or (c)
of the Electricity Act 1989 and each of those other licences was granted
following a tender exercise.

2.68A.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this section by—

2.68A.4.a

adding to subsection  (2)  an enterprise holding a licence under the Gas Act
1986 or the Electricity Act 1989 of a type that is not specified in that
subsection;

2.68A.4.b

creating an exception in relation to a type of enterprise specified in
subsection  (2) ;

2.68A.4.c

amending or removing an exception that applies in relation to a type of
enterprise specified in subsection  (2) .

2.68A.5

Before making regulations under subsection  (4) , the Secretary of State must
consult—

2.68A.5.a

the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority, and

2.68A.5.b

the CMA.

2.68A.6

In this section, “ tender exercise ” has the same meaning as in section 6CD of
the Electricity Act 1989.

########## Further duty to make references in relation to completed mergers

2.68B

2.68B.1

The CMA must make a reference to its chair for the constitution of a group
under Schedule 4 to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 if the CMA
believes that it is or may be the case that—

2.68B.1.a

a relevant merger situation involving an energy network merger has been
created, and

2.68B.1.b

the creation of that situation has caused, or may be expected to cause,
substantial prejudice to the ability of the Gas and Electricity Markets
Authority, in carrying out its functions under Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986 or
Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989, to make comparisons between energy network
enterprises of the type involved in the energy network merger;

but this is subject to subsections  (2)  and  (3) .

2.68B.2

The CMA may decide not to make a reference under this section if it believes
that any relevant customer benefits in relation to the creation of the
relevant merger situation outweigh the prejudice mentioned in subsection  (1)
(b) .

2.68B.3

The CMA must not make a reference under this section in any circumstances
described in section 22(3).

2.68B.4

A reference under this section must, in particular, specify—

2.68B.4.a

the enactment under which it is made, and

2.68B.4.b

the date on which it is made.

########## Further duty to make references in relation to anticipated mergers

2.68C

2.68C.1

The CMA must make a reference to its chair for the constitution of a group
under Schedule 4 to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 if the CMA
believes that it is or may be the case that—

2.68C.1.a

arrangements are in progress or in contemplation which, if carried into
effect, will result in the creation of a relevant merger situation involving
an energy network merger, and

2.68C.1.b

the creation of that situation may be expected to cause substantial prejudice
to the ability of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority, in carrying out
its functions under Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986 or Part 1 of the Electricity
Act 1989, to make comparisons between energy network enterprises of the type
involved in the energy network merger,

but this is subject to subsections  (2)  and  (3) .

2.68C.2

The CMA may decide not to make a reference under this section if it believes
that—

2.68C.2.a

the arrangements concerned are not sufficiently far advanced, or are not
sufficiently likely to proceed, to justify the making of a reference, or

2.68C.2.b

any relevant customer benefits in relation to the creation of the relevant
merger situation concerned outweigh the prejudice mentioned in subsection  (1)
(b) .

2.68C.3

The CMA must not make a reference under this section in any circumstances
described in section 33(3).

2.68C.4

A reference under this section must, in particular, specify—

2.68C.4.a

the enactment under which it is made, and

2.68C.4.b

the date on which it is made.

########## Opinion of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority

2.68D

2.68D.1

Before forming a view for the purposes of section  68B (1) (b)  or  (2)  or
68C (1) (b)  or  (2) (b) , the CMA must—

2.68D.1.a

ask the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority to give an opinion, and

2.68D.1.b

consider that opinion.

2.68D.2

Where the CMA makes a request under this section, the Gas and Electricity
Markets Authority must give its opinion on—

2.68D.2.a

whether and to what extent the creation of the relevant merger situation has
prejudiced, or may be expected to prejudice, the Authority’s ability, in
carrying out its functions under Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986 or Part 1 of the
Electricity Act 1989, to make comparisons between energy network enterprises
of the type involved in the relevant merger situation, and

2.68D.2.b

whether any prejudice is outweighed by any relevant customer benefits in
relation to the creation of the relevant merger situation.

2.68D.3

The Gas and Electricity Markets Authority must prepare and publish a statement
of the methods it considers should be applied in forming an opinion on the
matters mentioned in subsection (2).

2.68D.4

The statement must, in particular, set out—

2.68D.4.a

the criteria to be used for assessing the effect of any particular energy
network enterprises ceasing to be distinct enterprises on the Gas and
Electricity Market Authority’s ability to make comparisons between such
enterprises, and

2.68D.4.b

the relative weight to be given to the criteria.

2.68D.5

Before preparing or altering the statement, the Gas and Electricity Markets
Authority must consult—

2.68D.5.a

the Secretary of State,

2.68D.5.b

the Scottish Ministers,

2.68D.5.c

the Welsh Ministers,

2.68D.5.d

the CMA, and

2.68D.5.e

each energy network enterprise.

2.68D.6

The Gas and Electricity Markets Authority must from time to time—

2.68D.6.a

review the statement, and

2.68D.6.b

where appropriate, change the statement and publish the new version.

2.68D.7

In forming its opinion under this section, the Gas and Electricity Markets
Authority must apply the methods set out in its latest statement.

########## Combined references

2.68E

2.68E.1

In respect of a relevant merger situation involving an energy network merger,
the CMA may—

2.68E.1.a

make a reference under both section 22 and section  68B , or

2.68E.1.b

make a reference under both section 33 and section  68C .

2.68E.2

If the CMA does so—

2.68E.2.a

the references may be decided by the same group constituted under Schedule 4
to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013;

2.68E.2.b

the functions of the CMA referred to in section 34C(1) and (2) may be carried
out on behalf of the CMA by the same group in relation to both references; and

2.68E.2.c

the group’s duties under section 38 to prepare and publish a report on each
reference may be satisfied by preparing and publishing a single report on both
references.

########## Modification of this Part

2.68F

2.68F.1

In relation to—

2.68F.1.a

a reference, or possible reference, under section  68B , and

2.68F.1.b

a reference, or possible reference, under section  68C ,

Chapter 1 of this Part applies with the modifications set out in Schedule 5A.

2.68F.2

In Chapters 2 to 5 of this Part, references to a provision of Chapter 1
include that provision as applied by subsection  (1)  and Schedule 5A.

3

After Schedule 5 insert—

  Energy network mergers affecting comparative regulation: modification of
Chapter 1 of Part 3

Section  68F

########### General modifications

3.1

3.1.1

Chapter 1 (other than sections 22 and 33) has effect as if—

3.1.1.a

references to a reference or possible reference under section 22 were
references to a reference or possible reference under section  68B , and

3.1.1.b

references to a reference or possible reference under section 33 were
references to a reference or possible reference under section  68C .

3.1.2

The references in sub-paragraph (1) to a reference under a section include a
reference treated as made under that section.

########### Turnover

3.2

Section 23 (relevant merger situations) has effect as if—

3.2.a

in subsection (1), for paragraph (b) there were substituted—

3.2.a.b

the value of the turnover in Great Britain of the enterprise being taken over
exceeds £70 million.

;

3.2.b

subsections (2) to (8) were omitted.

3.3

Section 28 (turnover test) has effect as if—

3.3.a

references to the United Kingdom were to Great Britain;

3.3.b

in subsection (5), for “The CMA shall” there were substituted  “The CMA and
the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority shall each” ;

3.3.c

the reference in subsection (6) to section 23(1)(b) included a reference to
that provision as modified by paragraph  2  of this Schedule.

########### Relevant customer benefits

3.4

Section 30 (relevant customer benefits) has effect as if—

3.4.a

in subsection (1)(a)(i), for “lessening of competition concerned” there were
substituted  “prejudice to the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority” ;

3.4.b

in subsections (2)(b) and (3)(b), for “a similar lessening of competition”
there were substituted  “a similar prejudice to the Gas and Electricity
Markets Authority” .

########### Time limits for decisions about references

3.5

Section 34ZA(1)(a) (time-limits for decisions about references) has effect as
if—

3.5.a

the reference to section 22(2) were to section  68B (2) ;

3.5.b

the reference to section 22(3) were to—

3.5.b.i

that provision as applied by section  68B (4) , and

3.5.b.ii

section  68B (3) ;

3.5.c

the reference to section 33(2) were to section  68C (2) ;

3.5.d

the reference to section 33(3) were to—

3.5.d.i

that provision as applied by section  68C (4) , and

3.5.d.ii

section  68C (3) .

########### Questions to be decided in relation to completed mergers

3.6

Section 35 (questions to be decided in relation to completed mergers) has
effect as if—

3.6.a

in subsection (1)(a), after “situation” there were inserted  “involving an
energy network merger” ;

3.6.b

in subsection (1)(b), for the words from “has resulted” to the end there were
substituted  “has caused, or may be expected to cause, substantial prejudice
to the ability of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority to make
comparisons between energy network enterprises of the type involved in the
energy network merger” ;

3.6.c

for subsection (2) there were substituted—

3.6.c.2

For the purposes of this section there is a prejudicial outcome if there is a
situation described in subsection (1)(a) which has, or may be expected to
have, the effect described in subsection (1)(b).

;

3.6.d

in subsection (3), for “an anti-competitive outcome (within the meaning given
by subsection (2)(a))” there were substituted  “a prejudicial outcome” ;

3.6.e

in subsections (3)(a) and (b) and (4), for “ lessening of competition ” (in
each place it appears) there were substituted  “prejudice” .

########### Questions to be decided in relation to anticipated mergers

3.7

Section 36 (questions to be decided in relation to anticipated mergers) has
effect as if—

3.7.a

in subsection (1)(a), after “situation” there were inserted  “involving an
energy network merger” ;

3.7.b

in subsection (1)(b), for the words from “result” to the end there were
substituted  “cause substantial prejudice to the ability of the Gas and
Electricity Markets Authority to make comparisons between energy network
enterprises of the type involved in the energy network merger” ;

3.7.c

after subsection (1) there were inserted—

3.7.c.1A

For the purposes of this section there is a prejudicial outcome if there are
arrangements described in subsection (1)(a) which may be expected to have the
effect described in subsection (1)(b).

;

3.7.d

in subsection (2), for “an anti-competitive outcome (within the meaning given
by section 35(2)(b))” there were substituted  “a prejudicial outcome” ;

3.7.e

in subsections (2)(a) and (b) and (3), for “ lessening of competition ” (in
each place it appears) there were substituted  “prejudice” .

########### Duty to remedy effects of completed or anticipated mergers

3.8

Section 41 (duty to remedy effects of completed or anticipated mergers) has
effect as if—

3.8.a

in subsection (1), for “an anti-competitive outcome” there were substituted
“a prejudicial outcome (within the meaning of section 35(2) or 36(1A))” ;

3.8.b

in subsection (2)(a) and (b), for “lessening of competition” there were
substituted  “prejudice” ;

3.8.c

in subsection (4), for “lessening of competition” there were substituted
“prejudice” .

##### Consequential amendments of Part 3 of Enterprise Act 2002

4

Part 3 of the Enterprise Act 2002 is amended as follows.

5

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7

7.1

Section 42 (intervention by Secretary of State in certain public interest
cases) is amended as follows.

7.2

In subsection (1)(b), for “section 22 or 33” substitute  “section 22, 33,  68B
or  68C ” .

7.3

In subsection (1)(c), after “33” insert “or  subsection (2) (a)  of section
68C “.

7.4

In subsection (1)(d)—

7.4.a

for “section 22 or 33” substitute  “section 22, 33,  68B  or  68C ” ;

7.4.b

in sub-paragraph (1), after the second “or (a)” insert  “(including those
provisions as applied by sections 68B and  68C )” .

8

In section 56(2) (competition cases where intervention on public interest
grounds ceases), for “ or 33 ” (in both places it occurs) substitute  “, 33,
68B  or  68C ” .

9

In section 57(1) (duties of CMA and OFCOM to inform Secretary of State), for
“section 22 or 33” substitute  “section 22, 33,  68B  or  68C ” .

10

In the italic heading at the beginning of Chapter 4, for “section 22 or 33”
substitute  “section 22, 33,  68B  or  68C ” .

11

11.1

Section 72 (initial enforcement orders: completed or anticipated mergers) is
amended as follows.

11.2

In subsection (1)(a), for “section 22 or 33” substitute  “section 22, 33,  68B
or  68C ” .

11.3

In subsection (6)(a) and (d), for “section 22 or 33” substitute  “section 22,
33,  68B  or  68C ” .

12

12.1

Section 73 (undertakings in lieu of references) is amended as follows.

12.2

In the heading, for “22 or 33” substitute  “22, 33,  68B  or  68C ” .

12.3

After subsection (3) insert—

12.3.3A

Subsection  (3B)  applies if the CMA considers that it is under a duty to make
a reference under section  68B  or  68C ; and for the purposes of this
subsection it must—

12.3.3A.a

disregard the operation of section 22(3)(b) or 33(3)(b) (as applied by section
68B  or  68C ), but

12.3.3A.b

take account of its power under section  68B (2)  or  68C (2)  to decide not
to make such a reference.

12.3.3B

The CMA may, instead of making such a reference and for the purpose of
remedying, mitigating or preventing the prejudice to the ability of the Gas
and Electricity Markets Authority described in section  68B (1)  or  68C (1) ,
accept from such of the parties concerned as it considers appropriate
undertakings to take such action as it considers appropriate.

12.3.3C

In proceeding under subsection  (3B) , the CMA must, in particular, have
regard to the need to achieve as comprehensive a solution as is reasonable and
practicable to the prejudice.

12.3.3D

Before proceeding under subsection  (3B) , the CMA must—

12.3.3D.a

ask the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority to give its opinion on the
effect of the undertakings offered, and

12.3.3D.b

consider the Authority’s opinion.

12.4

In subsection (4), after “subsection (2)” insert  “or (3B)” .

13

13.1

Section 73A (time-limits for consideration of undertakings) is amended as
follows.

13.2

In subsection (1), after “73(2)” insert  “or (3B)” .

13.3

In subsection (2), for “those purposes” substitute  “the purposes of section
73(2) or (3B)” .

14

14.1

Section 74 (effect of undertakings under section 73) is amended as follows.

14.2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

14.3

In subsection (5)(a), for “or 33” substitute  “, 33,  68B  or  68C ” .

15

In section 77(1)(a) (restrictions on certain dealings: completed mergers),
after “22” insert  “or  68B ” .

16

In section 78(1)(a) (restrictions on certain share dealings: anticipated
mergers), after “33” insert  “or  68C ” .

17

In section 79(1) and (2) (sections 77 and 78: further interpretation
provisions), for “or 33” substitute  “, 33,  68B  or  68C ” .

18

In section 80(1), (7) and (8) (interim undertakings), for “or 33” substitute
“, 33,  68B  or  68C ” .

19

In section 81(1), (7) and (8) (interim orders), for “or 33” substitute  “, 33,
68B  or  68C ” .

20

In section 82(3) and (4) (final undertakings), for “or 33” substitute  “, 33,
68B  or  68C ” .

21

In section 84(5) (final orders), for “or 33” substitute  “, 33,  68B  or  68C
” .

22

22.1

Section 100 (exceptions to protection given by merger notices) is amended as
follows.

22.2

In subsection (1), for “or (as the case may be) 33” substitute  “, 33,  68B
or  68C ” .

22.3

In subsection (2)(a), for “or 33” substitute  “, 33,  68B  or  68C ” .

23

In section 104(6) (certain duties of relevant authorities to consult), in the
definition of “relevant decision”, in paragraph (a)(i), for “or 33” substitute
“, 33,  68B  or  68C ” .

24

In section 105(1) (general information duties of CMA), for “or 33” substitute
“, 33,  68B  or  68C ” .

25

25.1

Section 106 (advice and information about references) is amended as follows.

25.2

In the heading, for “sections 22 and 33” substitute  “section 22, 33,  68B  or
68C ” .

25.3

In subsection (1)(a), for “or 33” substitute  “, 33,  68B  or  68C ” .

26

26.1

Section 107 (further publicity requirements) is amended as follows.

26.2

In subsection (1)(a), for “or 33” substitute  “, 33,  68B  or  68C ” .

26.3

In subsection (1)(aa), for “subsection (2)(b) of section 33” substitute
“section 33(2)(b) or  68C (2) (a) ” .

26.4

In subsection (1)(b), for “or 33” substitute  “, 33,  68B  or  68C ” .

26.5

In subsection (2)(a), at the end insert  “or  68C ” .

26.6

In subsection (2)(b), for the words from “a reference” to the end substitute
“a reference under section 22 or 68B as if it had been made under section 33
or  68C  or to treat a reference under section 33 or  68C  as if it had been
made under section 22 or  68B ” .

27

In section 109(A1)(a) (attendance of witnesses and production of documents
etc), for “or 33” substitute  “, 33,  68B  or  68C ” .

28

In section 110A(5) and (6) (restriction on powers to impose penalties under
section 110), for “or 33” substitute  “, 33,  68B  or  68C ” .

29

In section 110B(1) and (2) (restriction on powers to impose penalties under
section 110), for “or 33” substitute  “, 33,  68B  or  68C ” .

30

In section 121(3)(a) (fees), for “or 33” substitute  “, 33,  68B  or  68C ” .

31

In section 124(5) (orders and regulations), at the beginning insert
“Regulations made by the Secretary of State under section  68A  or” .

32

In section 127(3) (associated person), for “or 62” substitute  “, 62,  68B  or
68C ” .

33

33.1

The table in section 130 (index of defined expressions) is amended as follows.

33.2

After the entry for “Enactment” insert—

    Energy network enterprise Section  68A Energy network merger Section  68A

.

33.3

In the entry for “Final determination of reference under section 22 or 33”,
for “or 33” substitute  “, 33,  68B  or  68C ” .

33.4

In the entry for “References under section 22, 33, 45 or 62”—

33.4.a

for “or 62” substitute  “, 62,  68B  or  68C ” , and

33.4.b

after “37(2)” insert  “(including as applied by Schedule 5A)” .

33.5

In the entry for “The turnover in the United Kingdom of an enterprise”, after
“28(2)” insert  “(including as applied by Schedule 5A)” .

34

34.1

Schedule 7 (enforcement regime for public interest and special public interest
cases) is amended as follows.

34.2

In paragraph 4(1), for “or 45” substitute  “, 45,  68B  or  68C ” .

34.3

In paragraph 4(2)(a), for “or 33” substitute  “, 33,  68B  or  68C ” .

##### Consequential amendments of other enactments

###### Utilities Act 2000

35

In section 105(3) of the Utilities Act 2000 (general restrictions on
disclosure of information), in paragraph (azb), after “under” insert  “Part 3
of the Enterprise Act 2002 or under” .

###### Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013

36

36.1

Schedule 4 to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 is amended as
follows.

36.2

In paragraph 35(3) (membership of CMA panel), in the definition of “specialist
utility functions”, after paragraph (d) insert—

      a reference under section  68B  or  68C  of the Enterprise Act 2002;

.

36.3

In paragraph 56 (CMA group decision: requirement for two thirds majority),
after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

36.3.2A

Sub-paragraph  (2B)  applies where a decision of a CMA group under section
35(1) or 36(1) of that Act (as applied by section  68F  of, and Schedule 5A
to, that Act) that there is, or is likely to be, prejudice of the kind
described in section  68B (1) (b)  or  68C (1) (b)  of that Act is not a
qualifying majority decision.

36.3.2B

The decision of the CMA group is to be treated as a decision under section
35(1) or, as the case may be, section 36(1) of that Act (as applied by section
68F  of, and Schedule 5A to, that Act) that there is not, or is not likely to
be, prejudice of that kind.

  Multi-purpose interconnectors: consequential amendments

Section 210

##### The Electricity Act 1989

1

The Electricity Act 1989 is amended as follows.

2

In section 3A (principal objective and general duties of Secretary of State
and Gas and Electricity Markets Authority)—

2.a

in subsection (1B), after “interconnectors” insert  “or multi-purpose
interconnectors” ;

2.b

in subsection (5)(a), after “interconnectors” insert  “or multi-purpose
interconnectors” ;

2.c

in subsection (5B), in the definition of “electricity-supply emissions”, after
“interconnectors” insert  “or multi-purpose interconnectors” .

3

In section 3F(2) (Gas and Electricity Markets Authority to cooperate with
Northern Ireland Authority), after “interconnection” insert  “and multi-
purpose interconnection” .

4

In section 7 (conditions of licences: general)—

4.a

in subsection (2), after “distribution licence” insert  “or MPI licence” ;

4.b

in subsection (2A), after “transmission licence” insert  “or MPI licence” .

5

In section 29 (regulations relating to supply and safety)—

5.a

in subsection (1)(b), after “interconnectors” insert  “or multi-purpose
interconnectors” ;

5.b

in subsection (2)—

5.b.i

in paragraph (b), after “interconnectors” insert  “or multi-purpose
interconnectors” ;

5.b.ii

in paragraph (c), after “interconnector” insert  “or multi-purpose
interconnector” .

6

In section 30 (electrical inspectors), in subsection (2)(a), after
“interconnectors” insert  “or multi-purpose interconnectors” .

7

In section 43 (functions with respect to competition)—

7.a

in subsection (2A)(b), after “interconnectors” insert  “or multi-purpose
interconnectors” ;

7.b

in subsection (2C)(b), after “interconnectors” insert  “or multi-purpose
interconnectors” ;

7.c

in subsection (3), after “interconnectors” insert  “or multi-purpose
interconnectors” .

8

In subsection 44B (meaning of “ section 44B dispute ”), in subsection (1)(a),
after sub-paragraph (iii) insert—

8.iiia

made against the holder of an MPI licence,

.

9

In section 56A(4) (scope of power to alter activities requiring licence),
after “electricity” insert  “, with the operation of a multi-purpose
interconnector” .

10

In section 58(2) (direction restricting the use of certain information), after
“interconnectors” insert  “or multi-purpose interconnectors” .

11

In section 98(1) (provision of statistical information), after
“interconnectors” insert  “or multi-purpose interconnectors” .

##### Scotland Act 1998

12

In section 90B of the Scotland Act 1998 (the Crown Estate), in subsection
(12)(d), after “interconnectors” insert  “or multi-purpose interconnectors
(within the meaning of Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989)” .

##### Utilities Act 2000

13

In section 5A of the Utilities Act 2000 (duty of Authority to carry out impact
assessment), in subsection (2)—

13.a

in paragraph (b), after “gas meters)” insert  “or in the operation of a multi-
purpose interconnector” ;

13.b

in paragraph (c), after “electricity” insert  “or the operation of a multi-
purpose interconnector” .

##### Energy Act 2004

14

Section 172 of the Energy Act 2004 (annual report on security of energy
supplies) is amended as follows—

14.a

in subsection (2D)(b), after “interconnectors” insert  “and multi-purpose
interconnectors” ;

14.b

in subsection (4), after ““generation”,” insert  “, “multi-purpose
interconnector”,” .

##### Civil Contingencies Act 2004

15

15.1

Schedule 1 to the Civil Contingencies Act 2004 (category 1 and 2 responders)
is amended as follows.

15.2

In paragraph 19, in sub-paragraph (2)—

15.2.a

omit the “and” after paragraph (b);

15.2.b

after paragraph (c) insert

, and

15.2.b.d

an MPI licence.

15.3

In paragraph 30, in sub-paragraph (2)—

15.3.a

omit the “and” after paragraph (b);

15.3.b

after paragraph (c) insert

, and

15.3.b.d

an MPI licence.

##### Consumers, Estate Agents and Redress Act 2007

16

In section 42 of the Consumers, Estate Agents and Redress Act 2007
(interpretation of Part 2), in subsection (4), in paragraph (c) of the
definition of “electricity licensee”—

16.a

for “or (e)” substitute  “, (e) or (ea)” ;

16.b

for “and interconnector licences” substitute  “, interconnector licences and
MPI licences” .

##### Energy Act 2013

17

In section 59 of the Energy Act 2013 (suspension etc of emissions limit in
exceptional circumstances), in subsection (4)(a), after “interconnector”
insert  “or multi-purpose interconnector” .

##### Regulation (EU) 2019/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5th June 2019 on the internal market for electricity (recast)

18

In Article 63 of  Regulation (EU) 2019/943  of the European Parliament and of
the Council of 5th June 2019 on the internal market for electricity (recast),
in paragraph 4A, for “granted under section 6(1)(e) of the Electricity Act
1989” substitute  “or an MPI licence granted under section 6(1)(e) or (ea)
respectively of the Electricity Act 1989” .

##### United Kingdom Internal Market Act 2020

19

In Part 2 of Schedule 2 to the United Kingdom Internal Market Act 2020
(services to which non-discrimination provisions do not apply), in the entry
relating to services connected with the supply or production of electricity,
after “interconnector” insert  “or multi-purpose interconnector” .

Heat networks regulation

Section 219

##### Interpretation

1

In this Schedule—

“ code manager licence ” has the meaning given by  paragraph 25 ; “ consumer
redress order ” has the meaning given by  paragraph 37 ; “ designated document
” has the meaning given by  paragraph 22 ; “ emissions ” has the same meaning
as in the Climate Change Act 2008 (see section 97 of that Act); “ enforcement
undertaking ” has the meaning given by paragraph  38 (2) ; “ heat network
authorisation ” has the meaning given by  paragraph 13 ; “ heat network
consumer ” has the meaning given by the regulations; “ installation and
maintenance licence ” has the meaning given by  paragraph 31 ; “ licensed code
manager ”, in relation to a designated document, has the meaning given by
paragraph 25 ; “ regulated activity ” has the meaning given by  paragraph 12 ;
“ the regulations ” means regulations under  section 219 ; “ relevant
condition ” has the meaning given by  paragraph 37 ; “ relevant person ” has
the meaning given by  paragraph 37 ; “ relevant requirement ” has the meaning
given by paragraph  37 ; “ targeted greenhouse gas ” has the same meaning as
in Part 1 of the Climate Change Act 2008 (see section 24 of that Act).

##### General provision as to the Regulator

###### Objectives

2

2.1

The regulations may make provision about the objectives of the Regulator in
carrying out its functions under the regulations.

2.2

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  may, in particular, provide
that the principal objective of the Regulator is to protect the interests of
existing and future heat network consumers.

2.3

The regulations may specify particular interests of existing and future heat
network consumers that are to be protected.

2.4

The interests specified may, in particular, include—

2.4.a

their interests in the reliability of the supply of heating, cooling or hot
water by means of relevant heat networks;

2.4.b

their interests in the reduction of emissions of targeted greenhouse gases
generated by relevant heat networks;

2.4.c

their interests in charges for the supply of heating, cooling or hot water by
means of relevant heat networks being proportionate;

2.4.d

their interests in information about services and charges being communicated
plainly.

###### General duties

3

3.1

The regulations may make provision about the duties of the Regulator in
carrying out its functions under the regulations.

3.2

The duties may, in particular, include—

3.2.a

a duty to carry out its functions in a manner best calculated to further its
objectives;

3.2.b

a duty to consider, when carrying out its functions, the need to ensure that
persons carrying out activities under a heat network authorisation or under an
installation and maintenance licence are able to finance obligations imposed
by or under the regulations;

3.2.c

a duty to have regard to the interests of heat network consumers who are in
vulnerable circumstances when performing duties imposed by regulations made by
virtue of  paragraph (a)  or  (b) .

3.3

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (2) (a)  may require that the
Regulator promote effective competition between persons engaged in, or in
commercial activities connected with, the supply of heating, cooling or hot
water by means of relevant heat networks.

4

4.1

The regulations may provide for the Regulator to have regard, in carrying out
a function under the regulations, to—

4.1.a

the interests of existing and future consumers in relation to electricity
conveyed by distribution systems or transmission systems (within the meaning
of the Electricity Act 1989);

4.1.b

the interests of existing and future consumers in relation to gas conveyed
through pipes (within the meaning of the Gas Act 1986);

4.1.c

any interests of existing and future consumers in relation to—

4.1.c.i

communications services and electronic communications apparatus, or

4.1.c.ii

water services or sewerage services (within the meaning of the Water Industry
Act 1991),

which are affected by the carrying out of that function.

4.2

The regulations may provide for persons or bodies exercising regulatory
functions in those fields to have regard, in carrying out a regulatory
function, to the interests of existing or future consumers in relation to the
supply of heating, cooling or hot water by means of relevant heat networks.

###### Delegation of functions

5

5.1

The regulations may provide for the Regulator to delegate functions conferred
on the Regulator by the regulations.

5.2

The regulations may specify functions which may be delegated only with the
consent of the Secretary of State or, as the case may be, the Department.

###### Monitoring, records and information

6

6.1

The regulations may require the Regulator to keep under review the carrying on
of activities connected with heat networks in the part or parts of the United
Kingdom in relation to which the Regulator has functions under the
regulations.

6.2

The regulations may require the Regulator to monitor such matters relating to
the activities regulated by the regulations or the persons who carry on those
activities as the regulations may specify.

6.3

The regulations may, for the purposes of enabling the Regulator to perform a
duty imposed by regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (2) , make
provision enabling the Regulator to require information to be supplied.

7

7.1

The regulations may require the Regulator to collect information with respect
to activities connected with heat networks and the persons who carry on those
activities for such purposes as are specified in the regulations.

7.2

The regulations may, in particular, require the Regulator to collect
information relating to standards of performance achieved by—

7.2.a

persons who hold a heat network authorisation;

7.2.b

licensed code managers;

7.2.c

persons who hold an installation and maintenance licence.

8

8.1

The regulations may make provision requiring the Regulator to maintain
records.

8.2

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  may, in particular, make
provision requiring the Regulator to maintain records relating to—

8.2.a

persons whose application for a heat network authorisation, a code manager
licence or an installation and maintenance licence has been refused;

8.2.b

persons whose heat network authorisation, code manager licence or installation
and maintenance licence has been revoked.

8.3

The regulations may make provision enabling or requiring the Regulator to
provide information from its records to—

8.3.a

the Secretary of State or a person specified by the Secretary of State,

8.3.b

the Department or a person specified by the Department, or

8.3.c

the Scottish Ministers or a person specified by the Scottish Ministers.

9

9.1

The regulations may make provision restricting the disclosure of information
obtained by the Regulator under or by virtue of the regulations, subject to
exceptions specified in the regulations.

9.2

The regulations may make provision about the disclosure to the Regulator of
information held by other persons or bodies.

10

10.1

The regulations may make provision for the purpose of securing that a
disclosure of information which is authorised or required by the regulations
does not contravene the data protection legislation.

10.2

In this paragraph, “ the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as
in the Data Protection Act 2018 (see section 3(9) of that Act).

###### Other general provision

11

11.1

The regulations may make other general provision about the Regulator.

11.2

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  may, in particular, make
provision about—

11.2.a

preparing and publishing documents about—

11.2.a.i

strategy and policies;

11.2.a.ii

plans for future work;

11.2.b

publishing reports annually;

11.2.c

publishing financial information in annual accounts;

11.2.d

preparing and publishing impact assessments.

11.3

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  may make provision about
preparing, issuing, reviewing and revising guidance.

11.4

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  may provide for the
publication of information and advice for the purpose of promoting the
interests of existing and future heat network consumers.

##### Heat network authorisations

###### Prohibition from carrying on regulated activity

12

12.1

The regulations may prohibit a person from carrying on a regulated activity,
except as permitted by virtue of an authorisation conferred under regulations
made by virtue of  paragraph 13 .

12.2

In this paragraph, “ regulated activity ” means an activity relating to a
relevant heat network of such description as may be specified in the
regulations.

###### Heat network authorisations

13

13.1

The regulations may provide for the Regulator to confer authorisations (“heat
network authorisations”) to carry on one or more regulated activities
specified in the authorisation in relation to a particular relevant heat
network.

13.2

The regulations may require a person who applies for a heat network
authorisation—

13.2.a

to satisfy such conditions relating to the person, the regulated activity or
activities in question or the relevant heat network in question as the
regulations may specify, and

13.2.b

to provide such information as the regulations may specify.

13.3

The regulations may provide for the Regulator—

13.3.a

to confer a heat network authorisation;

13.3.b

to confer a heat network authorisation on a temporary basis;

13.3.c

to refuse to confer a heat network authorisation.

13.4

The regulations may make provision about the procedure for applying for a heat
network authorisation, including provision about—

13.4.a

the form and content of an application,

13.4.b

the manner in which the application and any accompanying documents are to be
submitted to the Regulator;

13.4.c

the payment of a fee.

13.5

Regulations made in relation to England and Wales and Scotland by virtue of
sub-paragraph (2) (b)  or  (4)  may provide for the Regulator to make
provision by regulations about the matters referred to in that sub-paragraph.

13.6

Regulations made by the Regulator by virtue of  sub-paragraph (5)  are to be
made by statutory instrument.

13.7

The regulations may make provision as to the period for which an authorisation
may be in force.

14

14.1

The regulations may make provision about the conditions to be included in heat
network authorisations.

14.2

The regulations may, in particular—

14.2.a

provide for the Regulator to determine and publish conditions to be included
in each heat network authorisation or in each heat network authorisation of a
particular description;

14.2.b

provide for the Secretary of State or, in relation to Northern Ireland, the
Department to determine and publish conditions to be included in each heat
network authorisation or in each heat network authorisation of a particular
description;

14.2.c

provide for consultation on, and publication of, the conditions proposed to be
so determined;

14.2.d

make provision about the inclusion in a heat network authorisation of
conditions that are special to that authorisation;

14.2.e

make provision about including conditions that meet objectives or other
criteria specified in the regulations.

14.3

The regulations may, in particular, provide for conditions to be included in a
heat network authorisation requiring the person who holds the authorisation—

14.3.a

to comply with the provisions of a particular designated document;

14.3.b

to enter into governance arrangements with the person who is from time to time
the licensed code manager for that designated document and to comply with
those arrangements;

14.3.c

to provide funding for the person who is from time to time the licensed code
manager for that designated document.

14.4

The regulations may, in particular, provide for the following sorts of
conditions to be included in a heat network authorisation—

14.4.a

conditions about the terms on which premises are connected to a relevant heat
network (whether for the purpose of supplying heating, cooling or hot water to
premises, or supplying thermal energy to a relevant heat network);

14.4.b

conditions about installing and maintaining equipment for measuring,
displaying, recording and regulating consumption of heating, cooling and hot
water supplied by means of relevant heat networks;

14.4.c

conditions about—

14.4.c.i

the charges payable by heat network consumers or a description of heat network
consumers specified in the regulations,

14.4.c.ii

the billing of heat network consumers;

14.4.c.iii

service standards, or

14.4.c.iv

the communication of information about the heat network, the services provided
or the terms on which the services are provided;

14.4.d

conditions relating to price regulation (including by means of regulation of
charges or profits);

14.4.e

conditions about complying with technical standards (including, in relation to
England and Wales and Scotland, technical standards for which provision is
made in a designated document);

14.4.f

conditions about ensuring the continuity of the supply of heating, cooling and
hot water to heat network consumers;

14.4.g

conditions about limiting emissions of targeted greenhouse gases in relation
to relevant heat networks in England or Northern Ireland;

14.4.h

conditions about providing information to the Regulator;

14.4.i

conditions about the payment of fees to the Regulator, including conditions
about the payment of fees—

14.4.i.i

in connection with the conferring of an authorisation;

14.4.i.ii

while an authorisation continues to be in force in relation to a person;

14.4.j

conditions about making payments to the Regulator of sums relating to the
costs of the Regulator under regulations made by virtue of  paragraph 46 (2) .

14.5

Conditions of the sort referred to in  sub-paragraph (4) (c) (i)  may, in
particular—

14.5.a

provide for charges imposed on heat network consumers to be subject to a price
cap;

14.5.b

require a person who holds a heat network authorisation not to impose on heat
network consumers charges that are disproportionate (see  paragraph 42 ).

14.6

Conditions of the sort referred to in  sub-paragraph (4) (c) (ii)  may, in
particular—

14.6.a

impose requirements about the bills given to heat network consumers (including
requirements about their frequency, accuracy and the use of estimates);

14.6.b

impose requirements about the information and explanatory material to be
provided to heat network consumers;

14.6.c

make provision about the charges that may be made in respect of the costs of
providing bills and such information and explanatory material.

14.7

The regulations may, in particular, provide for conditions to be included in a
heat network authorisation that—

14.7.a

in relation to England and Wales or Scotland, impose on the person who holds
the authorisation a requirement of a kind that may be imposed under section
7(3) of the Electricity Act 1989 on the holder of a licence under section 6(1)
of that Act;

14.7.b

in relation to Northern Ireland, impose on the person who holds the
authorisation a requirement of a kind that may be imposed under Article 11(3)
of the Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order 1992 ( S.I. 1992/231 (N.I. 1))  on
the holder of a licence under Article 10(1) of that Order.

###### Conditions about technical standards: further provision

15

The technical standards for which regulations made by virtue of  paragraph 14
(4) (e)  may make provision include technical standards relating to—

15.a

the design, construction, commissioning, operation or maintenance of a heat
network;

15.b

the decommissioning of a heat network;

15.c

equipment or materials used in the construction, operation or maintenance of a
heat network;

15.d

the competence of persons engaged in the design, construction, commissioning,
operation or maintenance of a heat network.

###### Conditions about continuity of supply: further provision

16

Conditions of the sort referred to in  paragraph 14 (4) (f)  may, in
particular, require the holder of a heat network authorisation to enter into
and maintain contractual arrangements under which, in circumstances of a
description specified in the conditions, one or more other persons are under
an obligation to secure the continuity of the supply of heating, cooling or
hot water.

17

Conditions of the sort referred to in  paragraph 14 (4) (f)  may, in
particular, require the holder of a heat network authorisation, when directed
to do so by the Regulator in circumstances of a description specified in the
conditions, to carry on a regulated activity in relation to a relevant heat
network in the place of another person (see  paragraph 44 ).

###### Modification of heat network authorisations

18

18.1

The regulations may provide for the modification by the Regulator of—

18.1.a

the conditions of a particular heat network authorisation;

18.1.b

conditions that are included in two or more heat network authorisations.

18.2

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  may, in particular—

18.2.a

provide for the procedure to be followed by the Regulator when it proposes to
make a modification;

18.2.b

provide for the communication of any modification;

18.2.c

provide for the time when any modification takes effect;

18.2.d

provide for the Regulator to comply with a direction of the Secretary of State
or, in relation to Northern Ireland, the Department not to make a particular
modification.

18.3

In sub-paragraphs  (1)  and  (2) , a reference to the modification of a
condition includes a reference to the revocation of a condition.

18.4

The regulations may provide for the conditions of a heat network
authorisation—

18.4.a

to have effect or cease to have effect at such times and in such circumstances
as may be determined by or under the conditions;

18.4.b

to be modified in such manner as may be specified in the conditions at such
times and in such circumstances as may be so determined.

###### Review and revocation of heat network authorisations

19

The regulations may provide for the conditions of, or the activities carried
out by virtue of, a heat network authorisation to be reviewed by the Regulator
at any time while it is in force.

20

20.1

The regulations may provide—

20.1.a

for the revocation of a heat network authorisation by the Regulator;

20.1.b

for a heat network authorisation to cease to have effect in circumstances
specified in or determined under the authorisation.

20.2

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1) (a)  may, in particular,
provide for the procedure to be followed by the Regulator when it proposes to
revoke the authorisation.

###### Initial period

21

21.1

The regulations may make provision with respect to persons carrying on a
regulated activity in relation to a relevant heat network during a period
that—

21.1.a

begins with the day on which any regulations made by virtue of  paragraph 12
come into force, and

21.1.b

ends with a day specified in the regulations.

21.2

The regulations may—

21.2.a

provide for the period to be prolonged, or to be prolonged as it relates to a
description of heat network authorisations, by the Regulator;

21.2.b

require the consent of the Secretary of State or the Department (as the case
may be) to such an alteration.

21.3

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  may—

21.3.a

provide for a person carrying on a regulated activity in relation to a
relevant heat network to be treated as holding a heat network authorisation in
relation to that activity and that relevant heat network during the period
described in  sub-paragraph (1)  (or, if applicable, during that period as
prolonged by virtue of  sub-paragraph (2) );

21.3.b

make provision as to the conditions of the heat network authorisation treated
as conferred on such a person (including provision similar to the provision
described in  paragraph 14 (2) );

21.3.c

require a person carrying on a regulated activity in relation to a relevant
heat network to apply to the Regulator for a heat network authorisation to be
conferred on the person by a time specified in or determined under the
regulations.

21.4

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (3) (c)  may provide for
different times for different descriptions of case.

##### Code governance

###### Designated documents

22

22.1

In  this Part , “ designated document ” means a document that—

22.1.a

is maintained in accordance with the conditions of a code manager licence, and

22.1.b

is designated for the purposes of  this Part  by or in accordance with the
regulations.

22.2

The regulations may—

22.2.a

designate or provide for the designation of different documents for different
purposes;

22.2.b

provide for the time from which a designation has effect;

22.2.c

provide for the modification of a designated document and its reissuing in its
modified form;

22.2.d

revoke or provide for the revocation of a designated document;

22.2.e

provide for a designated document otherwise ceasing to be a designated
document.

22.3

The regulations may provide for a document that is designated to make
provision by reference to material (including standards, specifications or
requirements) contained in other documents that are published from time to
time.

22.4

The regulations may, in particular, make provision about the cases in which
the designated document may be modified by the Regulator.

###### Prohibition on performing the function of a code manager

23

23.1

The regulations may, in relation to England and Wales and Scotland, prohibit a
person from performing the function of code manager in relation to a
designated document, except as permitted by virtue of a code manager licence
(see  paragraph 25 ).

23.2

A reference in  this Part  to a person performing the function of code manager
in relation to a designated document is a reference to a person making
arrangements, with persons to whom  sub-paragraph (3)  applies, under which
the person is responsible for the governance of the designated document.

23.3

This sub-paragraph applies to the person who holds a heat network
authorisation where a condition of the authorisation requires the person to
comply with the designated document in question.

###### Licensed code managers

24

24.1

The regulations may, in relation to England and Wales and Scotland, make
provision about selecting a person to be a code manager in relation to a
designated document.

24.2

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  may, in particular, make
provision about the procedure for selecting a person, including provision for
determining which procedure to apply in a particular case.

24.3

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (2)  may include provision for
the payment of a fee by a person seeking to be selected to be a code manager.

24.4

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (2)  may provide for the
Regulator to make provision by regulations about those matters.

24.5

Regulations made by the Regulator by virtue of  sub-paragraph (4)  are to be
made by statutory instrument.

25

25.1

The regulations may, in relation to England and Wales and Scotland, provide
for the Regulator, where a person is selected to be the code manager in
relation to a designated document, to issue a licence (a “code manager
licence”) to the person which authorises the person to perform the function of
code manager in relation to the designated document.

25.2

The regulations may make provision as to the period for which a licence may be
in force.

25.3

In  this Part , references to the licensed code manager, in relation to a
designated document, are references to the person who is authorised by a code
manager licence to perform the function of code manager in relation to the
designated document.

26

26.1

The regulations may make provision about the contents of a code manager
licence.

26.2

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  may, in particular—

26.2.a

provide for the Regulator to determine and publish conditions to be included
in each code manager licence or in each code manager licence of a particular
description;

26.2.b

provide for the Secretary of State to determine and publish conditions to be
included in each code manager licence or in each code manager licence of a
particular description;

26.2.c

provide for consultation on, and publication of, the conditions proposed to be
so determined;

26.2.d

make provision about the inclusion in a code manager licence of conditions
that are special to that licence;

26.2.e

make provision about including conditions that meet objectives or other
criteria specified in the regulations.

26.3

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  may, in particular, provide
for the following sorts of conditions to be included in a code manager
licence—

26.3.a

conditions about the nature of the governance arrangements that the licensed
code manager may enter into with persons who hold a heat network authorisation
(see  paragraph 14 (3) (b) );

26.3.b

conditions about the content of those governance arrangements, which may
include provision about the licensed code manager—

26.3.b.i

modifying the designated document,

26.3.b.ii

monitoring or enforcing compliance with the provisions of the designated
document, or

26.3.b.iii

developing guidance relating to the designated document;

26.3.c

conditions about functions of the Regulator in connection with the
modification of a designated document;

26.3.d

conditions about providing information to the Regulator;

26.3.e

conditions about complying with directions of the Regulator as to matters
specified or of a description specified in the code manager licence;

26.3.f

conditions about the payment of fees to the Regulator, including conditions
about the payment of fees—

26.3.f.i

when a code manager licence is first issued;

26.3.f.ii

while a code manager licence continues to be in force in relation to a person.

26.4

The regulations may, in particular, provide for conditions to be included in a
code manager licence that—

26.4.a

in relation to England and Wales or Scotland, impose on the person who holds
the licence a requirement of a kind that may be imposed under section 7(3) of
the Electricity Act 1989 on the holder of a licence under section 6(1) of that
Act;

26.4.b

in relation to Northern Ireland, impose on the person who holds the licence a
requirement of a kind that may be imposed under Article 11(3) of the
Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order 1992 ( S.I. 1992/231 (N.I. 1))  on the
holder of a licence under Article 10(1) of that Order.

27

The regulations may provide for the Regulator to make payments to licensed
code managers in respect of their costs.

28

28.1

The regulations may provide for the modification by the Regulator of—

28.1.a

the conditions of a particular code manager licence;

28.1.b

conditions that are included in two or more code manager licences.

28.2

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  may, in particular—

28.2.a

provide for the procedure to be followed by the Regulator when it proposes to
make a modification;

28.2.b

provide for the communication of any modification;

28.2.c

provide for the time when any modification takes effect;

28.2.d

provide for the Regulator to comply with a direction of the Secretary of State
not to make a particular modification.

28.3

In sub-paragraphs (1) and (2), a reference to the modification of a condition
includes a reference to the revocation of a condition.

28.4

The regulations may provide for the conditions of a code manager licence—

28.4.a

to have effect or cease to have effect at such times and in such circumstances
as may be determined by or under the conditions;

28.4.b

to be modified in such manner as may be specified in the conditions at such
times and in such circumstances as may be so determined.

###### Review and revocation of code manager licences

29

The regulations may provide for a code manager licence, or the activities
carried out by virtue of a code manager licence, to be reviewed by the
Regulator at any time while it is in force.

30

30.1

The regulations may provide—

30.1.a

for the revocation of a code manager licence by the Regulator;

30.1.b

for a code manager licence to cease to have effect in circumstances specified
in or determined under the licence.

30.2

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1) (a)  may provide for the
procedure to be followed by the Regulator when it proposes to revoke the
licence.

##### Installation and maintenance licences

###### Installation and maintenance licences

31

31.1

The regulations may provide for the issuing of licences (“installation and
maintenance licences”) which authorise the holder of a licence to exercise the
rights specified in the licence for purposes relating to the installation or
maintenance of relevant heat networks—

31.1.a

in England and Wales, or

31.1.b

in Northern Ireland.

31.2

The regulations may require the Regulator to be satisfied before issuing an
installation and maintenance licence to a person that the person is an
appropriate person to hold such a licence.

31.3

The regulations may require the Regulator, in deciding whether a person is an
appropriate person to hold an installation and maintenance licence, to
consider such matters as may be specified.

31.4

The matters specified may, in particular, relate to the abilities or financial
resources of the person applying for a licence or the nature of the business
carried on by the person.

31.5

The regulations may specify other conditions that are to be satisfied before a
licence may be issued.

31.6

The regulations may make provision about the procedure for applying for a
licence, including provision about—

31.6.a

the form and content of an application,

31.6.b

the manner in which the application and any accompanying documents are to be
submitted to the Regulator, and

31.6.c

the payment of a fee.

31.7

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (6)  may provide for the
Regulator to make provision by regulations about the matters referred to in
sub-paragraph (6)  (including provision about the information that must be
provided to the Regulator by a person applying for a licence), so far as
relating to England and Wales.

31.8

Regulations made by the Regulator by virtue of  sub-paragraph (7)  are to be
made by statutory instrument.

31.9

The regulations may make provision as to the period for which a licence may be
in force.

31.10

The regulations may make provision about the transfer of a licence.

###### Rights that may be conferred

32

32.1

The regulations must set out the rights relating to land that are capable of
being conferred on a person by an installation and maintenance licence.

32.2

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  setting out a right may
include provision about the restrictions, exceptions or conditions subject to
which the right may be exercised.

32.3

The rights set out by regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  may
include—

32.3.a

a right to apply to the Secretary of State or, in relation to Northern
Ireland, the Department for authority to make a compulsory acquisition of an
easement or other right over land by the creation of a new right for the
purpose of installing or maintaining works and apparatus relating to a heat
network;

32.3.b

a right—

32.3.b.i

to install and keep works and apparatus relating to a heat network in, under
or over a street,

32.3.b.ii

to inspect, maintain, adjust, alter, repair, upgrade, operate or remove such
works and apparatus, and

32.3.b.iii

to carry out such other works as are required for or incidental to those
works,

subject to such requirements as to notification, manner of working and
compensation as may be specified in the regulations;

32.3.c

a right—

32.3.c.i

to install and keep works and apparatus relating to a heat network in, under
or over transport land,

32.3.c.ii

to inspect, maintain, alter, repair, replace and remove such works and
apparatus,

32.3.c.iii

to carry out any works on the transport land for or in connection with the
exercise of a right described in  sub-paragraph (i)  or  (ii) , and

32.3.c.iv

to enter the transport land to inspect, maintain, adjust, alter, repair,
upgrade, operate or remove the works or apparatus,

subject to such requirements as to notification, compensation, arbitration and
alteration of the works and apparatus as may be specified in the regulations;

32.3.d

a right to undertake works of a specified description without being required
to obtain planning permission.

32.4

In this paragraph—

“ street ” means a street in England, Wales or Northern Ireland and— in
relation to England and Wales, has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the New
Roads and Street Works Act 1991; in relation to Northern Ireland, has the same
meaning as in the Street Works (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 ( S.I. 1995/3210
(N.I. 19)) ; “ transport land ” means land which is used wholly or mainly— as
a railway, tramway or waterway, or in connection with a railway, tramway or
waterway on the land.

###### Further provision about installation and maintenance licences

33

33.1

The regulations may make provision about the contents of installation and
maintenance licences.

33.2

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  may, in particular—

33.2.a

provide for the Regulator to determine and publish conditions to be included
in each installation and maintenance licence or in each installation and
maintenance licence of a particular description;

33.2.b

provide for the Secretary of State or, in relation to Northern Ireland, the
Department to determine and publish conditions to be included in each
installation and maintenance licence or in each installation and maintenance
licence of a particular description;

33.2.c

provide for consultation on, and publication of, the conditions proposed to be
so determined;

33.2.d

make provision about the inclusion in an installation and maintenance licence
of conditions that are special to that licence;

33.2.e

make provision about including conditions that meet objectives or other
criteria specified in the regulations.

33.3

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  may, in particular, provide
for the following sorts of conditions to be included in a licence—

33.3.a

conditions about providing information to the Regulator;

33.3.b

conditions about the payment of fees to the Regulator, including conditions
about the payment of fees—

33.3.b.i

when a licence is first issued;

33.3.b.ii

while a licence continues to be in force in relation to a person.

33.4

The regulations may, in particular, provide for conditions to be included in
an installation and maintenance licence that—

33.4.a

in relation to England and Wales, impose on the person who holds the licence a
requirement of a kind that may be imposed under section 7(3) of the
Electricity Act 1989 on the holder of a licence under section 6(1) of that
Act;

33.4.b

in relation to Northern Ireland, impose on the person who holds the licence a
requirement of a kind that may be imposed under Article 11(3) of the
Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order 1992 ( S.I. 1992/231 (N.I. 1))  on the
holder of a licence under Article 10(1) of that Order.

34

34.1

The regulations may provide for the modification by the Regulator of—

34.1.a

the conditions of a particular installation and maintenance licence;

34.1.b

conditions that are included in two or more installation and maintenance
licences.

34.2

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  may, in particular—

34.2.a

provide for the procedure to be followed by the Regulator when it proposes to
make a modification;

34.2.b

provide for the communication of any modification;

34.2.c

provide for the time when any modification takes effect;

34.2.d

provide for the Regulator to comply with a direction of the Secretary of State
or, in relation to Northern Ireland, the Department not to make a particular
modification.

34.3

In sub-paragraphs  (1)  and  (2) , a reference to the modification of a
condition includes a reference to the revocation of a condition.

34.4

The regulations may provide for the conditions of an installation and
maintenance licence—

34.4.a

to have effect or cease to have effect at such times and in such circumstances
as may be determined by or under the conditions;

34.4.b

to be modified in such manner as may be specified in the conditions at such
times and in such circumstances as may be so determined.

###### Review and revocation of installation and maintenance licences

35

The regulations may provide for the conditions of, or the activities carried
out by virtue of, an installation and maintenance licence to be reviewed by
the Regulator at any time while it is in force.

36

36.1

The regulations may provide—

36.1.a

for the revocation of an installation and maintenance licence by the
Regulator;

36.1.b

for an installation and maintenance licence to cease to have effect in
circumstances specified in or determined under the licence.

36.2

Regulations made by virtue of sub-paragraph (1)(a) may, in particular, provide
for the procedure to be followed by the Regulator when it proposes to revoke
the licence.

##### Enforcement of conditions and requirements

###### Methods of enforcement

37

37.1

The regulations may make provision about the enforcement of relevant
conditions or relevant requirements.

37.2

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  may, in particular, provide
for the Regulator—

37.2.a

in a case where the Regulator is satisfied that a relevant person is
contravening or is likely to contravene a relevant condition or requirement,
to make a final order requiring the person to take such steps as the Regulator
considers appropriate for the purpose of securing the person’s compliance with
the relevant condition or requirement;

37.2.b

in a case where it appears to the Regulator that a relevant person is
contravening or is likely to contravene a relevant condition or requirement,
to make a provisional order requiring the person to take such steps as the
Regulator considers appropriate for the purpose of securing compliance with
the relevant condition or requirement;

37.2.c

to impose a penalty on a relevant person for the contravention of a relevant
condition or requirement;

37.2.d

in relation to England and Wales and Scotland, in a case where the
contravention of a relevant condition or requirement by a relevant person has
caused or is causing one or more consumers to suffer loss or damage or to be
caused inconvenience, to make an order (a “consumer redress order”) requiring
the person to do such things as appear to the Regulator necessary for the
purposes of—

37.2.d.i

remedying the consequences of the contravention, or

37.2.d.ii

preventing the person contravening the relevant condition or requirement again
in the same or a similar way.

37.3

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  may, in particular, provide
for—

37.3.a

the making of an order,

37.3.b

the imposition of a penalty, or

37.3.c

the making of a consumer redress order,

to be excluded if the Regulator considers that it would be more appropriate to
proceed under the Competition Act 1998 (see  paragraph 41 ).

37.4

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  may, in particular, make
provision about the use of more than one method of enforcement.

37.5

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  may, in particular, make
provision about enforcement in a case where a person who holds two or more
heat network authorisations has contravened or is likely to contravene a
relevant condition or requirement in those, or some of those, heat network
authorisations.

37.6

In this paragraph—

“ relevant condition ” means a condition of— a heat network authorisation, a
code manager licence, or an installation and maintenance licence; “ relevant
person ” means— a person who holds a heat network authorisation, a licensed
code manager, or a person who holds an installation and maintenance licence; “
relevant requirement ”, in relation to a relevant person, means a requirement
imposed on the person by or under the regulations or by regulations made by
the Regulator by virtue of any provision of this Schedule.

###### Final and provisional orders

38

38.1

Regulations made by virtue of  paragraph 37 (2)  may, in particular—

38.1.a

provide for the confirmation of a provisional order;

38.1.b

make provision about procedure;

38.1.c

provide for the grounds on which an order may be challenged in legal
proceedings, the time within which it may be challenged and the remedies that
may be given;

38.1.d

specify how an order may be enforced (including by providing for non-
compliance with an order to be a breach of duty);

38.1.e

make provision enabling the Regulator to accept an enforcement undertaking
from a relevant person and about the consequences of accepting such an
undertaking.

38.2

An “enforcement undertaking” is an undertaking to take, within the period
specified in the undertaking, such action as may be so specified to secure
compliance with a relevant condition or requirement.

38.3

Except as provided by the regulations, the validity of an order made by virtue
of paragraph  37 (2) (a)  or  (b)  is not to be questioned in any legal
proceedings.

###### Penalties

39

39.1

Regulations made by virtue of  paragraph 37 (2) (c)  may, in particular—

39.1.a

make provision about the maximum amount that may be imposed by way of penalty;

39.1.b

make provision about procedure;

39.1.c

make provision about the payment of interest;

39.1.d

specify how a penalty (and any interest) may be recovered;

39.1.e

make provision about payment of a penalty (and any interest) in instalments;

39.1.f

require sums received by way of penalty (and interest) to be paid into—

39.1.f.i

the Consolidated Fund, or

39.1.f.ii

in relation to Northern Ireland, the Consolidated Fund of Northern Ireland;

39.1.g

make provision enabling the Regulator to accept an enforcement undertaking
from a relevant person and about the consequences of accepting such an
undertaking.

39.2

The regulations may provide for—

39.2.a

publication by the Regulator of a statement of policy with respect to the
imposition of penalties and the determination of their amount;

39.2.b

revision of the statement of policy.

39.3

Where regulations make provision by virtue of  paragraph 37 (2) (c)  for the
imposition of a penalty on a relevant person, the regulations—

39.3.a

must also include provision enabling the relevant person to challenge the
penalty in legal proceedings;

39.3.b

may, in particular, specify the grounds on which and the time within which a
penalty may be challenged and the remedies that may be given.

39.4

Except as provided by the regulations, the validity of a penalty imposed by
virtue of paragraph  37  is not to be questioned in any legal proceedings.

###### Consumer redress orders

40

40.1

Regulations made by virtue of  paragraph 37 (2) (d)  may, in particular—

40.1.a

make provision about the requirements that may be imposed by a consumer
redress order, including, in particular, requirements as to—

40.1.a.i

paying compensation to affected heat network consumers;

40.1.a.ii

preparing and distributing a written statement about the contravention;

40.1.a.iii

terminating or varying contracts entered into with affected heat network
consumers;

40.1.b

make provision about the maximum amount of compensation that a relevant person
may be required to pay;

40.1.c

make provision about procedure;

40.1.d

make provision about challenges to a consumer redress order in legal
proceedings (including, in particular, specifying the grounds on which and the
time within which an order may be challenged and the remedies that may be
given);

40.1.e

make provision about the payment of interest;

40.1.f

make provision about payment of compensation (and any interest) in
instalments;

40.1.g

specify how a consumer redress order may be enforced;

40.1.h

make provision enabling the Regulator to accept an enforcement undertaking
from a relevant person and about the consequences of accepting such an
undertaking.

40.2

The regulations may provide for—

40.2.a

publication by the Regulator of a statement of policy with respect to the
making of consumer redress orders and the determination of the requirements
imposed by them;

40.2.b

revision of the statement of policy.

40.3

Except as provided by the regulations, the validity of a consumer redress
order is not to be questioned in any legal proceedings.

###### Functions under Part 1 of the Competition Act 1998 and Part 4 of the Enterprise Act 2002

41

41.1

The regulations may make provision for the purpose of enabling the Regulator
to exercise such functions of the Competition and Markets Authority under Part
1 of the Competition Act 1998, or such descriptions of those functions, as are
specified in the regulations.

41.2

The regulations may make provision for the purpose of enabling the Regulator
to exercise such functions of the Competition and Markets Authority under Part
4 of the Enterprise Act 2002, or such descriptions of those functions, as are
specified in the regulations.

41.3

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  or  (2)  may, in particular,
make provision—

41.3.a

about the concurrent exercise of functions by the Regulator and the
Competition and Markets Authority;

41.3.b

for the joint exercise of functions by the Regulator and the Competition and
Markets Authority in a particular case;

41.3.c

as to the procedure for determining which of the Regulator and the Competition
and Markets Authority is to exercise functions in a particular case;

41.3.d

as to the circumstances in which the exercise of a function by the Regulator
or the Competition and Markets Authority precludes the exercise of the
function by the other;

41.3.e

about assistance that may be given by the Regulator to the Competition and
Markets Authority.

##### Investigation

###### Investigation of charges

42

42.1

The regulations may make provision about how the Regulator is to determine
whether charges payable by heat network consumers for, or in relation to,
heating, cooling or hot water supplied by means of a relevant heat network
contravene a condition of a heat network authorisation by reason of being
disproportionate (see  paragraph 14 (5) (b) ).

42.2

The regulations may, in particular, make provision enabling the Regulator to
specify from time to time the methods that are to be used by the Regulator to
determine whether charges are disproportionate.

###### Powers to require information etc

43

43.1

The regulations may make provision conferring powers on the Regulator or
imposing requirements on any person, for the purposes of or in connection with
enabling the Regulator—

43.1.a

to monitor and secure compliance with relevant conditions or requirements;

43.1.b

to make an order in respect of the contravention of a relevant condition or
requirement;

43.1.c

to enforce relevant conditions or requirements;

43.1.d

to make a determination under provision made by virtue of paragraph  42 (1) .

43.2

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  may, in particular, enable
the Regulator—

43.2.a

to require information to be supplied;

43.2.b

to require copies of documents to be provided;

43.2.c

to inspect premises;

43.2.d

to inspect and take copies of documents or records;

43.2.e

to conduct tests or to require tests to be conducted;

43.2.f

to require a person to produce any equipment, document or record and to make
available information stored electronically;

43.2.g

to seize and detain equipment, documents and records.

43.3

Regulations made by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) may, in particular—

43.3.a

confer powers to enter premises for the purposes of exercising powers
conferred by the regulations;

43.3.b

make provision about the circumstances in which a warrant is required to
exercise a power conferred by virtue of paragraph (a);

43.3.c

make provision for the issuing of such a warrant where conditions specified in
the regulations are satisfied.

43.4

The regulations may provide for the Regulator to authorise others to exercise
powers conferred on it by regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1) .

43.5

Regulations made by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) may, in particular, impose
requirements relating to—

43.5.a

the keeping of records by relevant persons;

43.5.b

the provision of information by relevant persons and others;

43.5.c

the audit and verification of that information.

##### Step-in arrangements

44

The regulations may make provision for, or in connection with, securing that
the holder of a heat network authorisation (“the new entity”) is able
effectively to carry on a regulated activity in relation to a relevant heat
network in the place of another person (“the old entity”) when directed to do
so by the Regulator under a power conferred by a condition in its heat network
authorisation (see  paragraph 17 ).

45

45.1

The regulations may provide for the Regulator to make one or more schemes
making such provision as to property, rights and liabilities as is necessary
or expedient for the purpose of enabling the new entity to carry on the
regulated activity in relation to the relevant heat network in an effective
manner.

45.2

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  may, in particular,
authorise a scheme to provide for—

45.2.a

the transfer of property, rights or liabilities;

45.2.b

the creation of interests in, or rights in relation to, property;

45.2.c

the creation of rights and liabilities as between the old entity and the new
entity;

45.2.d

the modification of interests, rights or liabilities of third parties;

45.2.e

the enforcement of a right or liability for whose transfer or creation the
scheme provides;

45.2.f

the entering into of agreements and the execution of instruments for the
purposes of, or in connection with, the transfer of property or the transfer
or creation of rights or liabilities;

45.2.g

the time at which a transfer, creation or modification is to take place;

45.2.h

the assessment and payment of compensation.

45.3

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  may provide for the scheme—

45.3.a

to contain incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory
or saving provision;

45.3.b

to make different provision for different purposes.

45.4

The regulations may provide for the modification of a scheme.

46

46.1

The regulations may—

46.1.a

provide for the old entity to give the Regulator such information and
assistance as the Regulator may require for the purposes of, or in connection
with, the making or implementation of a scheme;

46.1.b

provide for the Regulator, for the purposes of, or in connection with, the
making or implementation of a scheme, to direct the old entity to take, or to
refrain from taking, such steps as are specified in the direction.

46.2

The regulations may provide for the Regulator—

46.2.a

to make payments to the new entity in respect of costs incurred in connection
with carrying on the regulated activity in relation to the heat network;

46.2.b

to indemnify the new entity in respect of liabilities arising from, or in
connection with, carrying on the regulated activity in relation to the heat
network.

##### Special administration regime

47

The regulations may make provision for, or in connection with, a special
administration regime for companies that are holders of heat network
authorisations.

48

48.1

The regulations may make provision for a court to make an order (a “heat
network administration order”) in relation to a company that is the holder of
a heat network authorisation directing that the affairs, business and property
of the company are to be managed by a person appointed by the court (referred
to in  this Part  as the heat network administrator of the company).

48.2

The regulations may make provision about the court that has jurisdiction in a
particular case.

48.3

The regulations may limit the effect of a heat network administration order
applying to a non-GB company or a non-NI company to—

48.3.a

its affairs and business so far as carried on in Great Britain or Northern
Ireland (as the case may be), and

48.3.b

its property in Great Britain or Northern Ireland (as the case may be).

49

49.1

The regulations may make provision about the objectives of a heat network
administration order and the means by which the objectives may be secured.

49.2

The regulations may, in particular, require the heat network administrator to
exercise functions so as to achieve the objectives set out in  sub-paragraph
(3)  so far as possible.

49.3

The objectives referred to in  sub-paragraph (2)  are—

49.3.a

to secure that the supply of heating, cooling or hot water is continued at the
lowest cost which it is reasonably practicable to incur,

49.3.b

to secure that the company’s relevant heat network is and continues to be
maintained and developed as an efficient and economical system, and

49.3.c

to secure that it becomes unnecessary, by using such means as are allowed by
the regulations, for the heat network administration order to remain in force.

49.4

The regulations may make provision about the means that may be used,
including—

49.4.a

the rescue as a going concern of the company subject to the heat network
administration order;

49.4.b

a transfer as a going concern of so much of the undertaking of the company
subject to the heat network administration order as is associated with the
company’s relevant heat network.

49.5

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (4)  may also provide for the
heat network administrator to make arrangements for securing that heat network
consumers who are supplied with heating, cooling or hot water by the company’s
relevant heat network have an alternative supply of heating, cooling or hot
water (as the case may be).

49.6

The regulations may make provision about—

49.6.a

the means by which a transfer falling within  sub-paragraph (4) (b)  may be
effected;

49.6.b

the circumstances in which the objectives set out in  sub-paragraph (3)  may
or may not be achieved by means of such a transfer.

49.7

In  this paragraph , “ the company’s relevant heat network ”, in relation to a
company that is the holder of a heat network authorisation, means the relevant
heat network to which the authorisation relates.

50

50.1

The regulations may make provision for applying, with such modifications as
appear to the appropriate authority to be appropriate, the provisions
mentioned in  sub-paragraph (2) .

50.2

The provisions referred to in  sub-paragraph (1)  are—

50.2.a

sections 156 to 167 of, and Schedules 20 and 21 to, the Energy Act 2004
(special administration regime for energy licensees);

50.2.b

sections 171 and 196 of the Energy Act 2004 (interpretation), so far as
relating to the provisions mentioned in  paragraph (a) ;

50.2.c

sections 19 to 33  of, and the Schedule to, the Energy Act (Northern Ireland)
2011 (c. 6 (N.I.))  (special administration regime for protected energy
companies);

50.2.d

section 35 of the Energy Act (Northern Ireland) 2011 (interpretation), so far
as relating to the provisions mentioned in  paragraph (c) .

50.3

In this paragraph, “ the appropriate authority ” means—

50.3.a

in relation to England and Wales and Scotland, the Secretary of State;

50.3.b

in relation to Northern Ireland, the Department.

51

In  this Part —

“ company ” means— a company registered under the Companies Act 2006, or an
unregistered company; “ heat network administration order ” has the meaning
given by  paragraph 48 ; “ heat network administrator ” has the meaning given
by  paragraph 48 ; “ non-GB company ” means a company incorporated outside
Great Britain; “ non-NI company ” means a company incorporated outside
Northern Ireland; “ unregistered company ” means a company that is not
registered under the Companies Act 2006.

##### Supply to premises

52

52.1

The regulations may make provision about—

52.1.a

offers to connect premises to a relevant heat network, the terms of such
offers and acceptance of such an offer;

52.1.b

the conduct of holders of heat network authorisations towards heat network
consumers or in relation to premises connected or proposed to be connected to
a relevant heat network.

52.2

Regulations made by virtue of this paragraph may make provision relating to
the connection of premises to a relevant heat network whether a connection is
for the purpose of—

52.2.a

supplying heating, cooling or hot water to premises, or

52.2.b

supplying thermal energy to a relevant heat network.

52.3

The following paragraphs of this Part make further provision about regulations
that may be made by virtue of  this paragraph .

53

The regulations may—

53.a

impose duties, in circumstances specified by the regulations, to make and
maintain a connection between a relevant heat network and any premises;

53.b

impose duties as to providing such equipment as may be needed to make the
connection function;

53.c

provide for the procedure to be followed when seeking to have a connection
made between a relevant heat network and any premises;

53.d

provide for persons seeking a connection to premises to pay an amount in
respect of costs incurred in making the connection or in respect of the cost
of equipment provided;

53.e

provide for the giving of security for the payment of such an amount in
respect of the cost of equipment provided;

53.f

make provision about the terms upon which a connection is made (including
provision for deeming a contract to have been made and for making schemes for
determining the terms and conditions to be incorporated in such a contract).

54

The regulations may—

54.a

make provision as to the meters and other equipment that may be installed for
the purposes of making and maintaining a connection between a relevant heat
network and any premises;

54.b

impose requirements as to the operation of such meters and other equipment.

55

The regulations may—

55.a

prohibit the making of a charge where, for the purpose of meeting the needs of
a disabled person, a meter or other equipment is moved or replaced;

55.b

make provision as to the steps that may be taken if payments relating to the
supply of heating, cooling or hot water are not made (including provision for
removing a connection to a relevant heat network or otherwise preventing the
further supply of heating, cooling or hot water);

55.c

make provision as to the arrangements that may apply, and the steps that may
be taken, if—

55.c.i

premises are supplied with heating, cooling or hot water without agreement as
to the terms on which the supply is made, or

55.c.ii

a connection is made to a relevant heat network, or restored, without
authority;

55.d

make provision in connection with securing the rights of a holder of a heat
network authorisation as owner of equipment provided by it.

56

The regulations may—

56.a

confer powers to enter premises for the purposes of installing, inspecting,
repairing, replacing, altering or removing meters or other equipment;

56.b

confer powers to enter premises for the purposes of reading a register on a
meter or other equipment;

56.c

make provision for the issuing of warrants to enter premises for the purposes
of exercising powers conferred by regulations made by virtue of this paragraph
where conditions specified in the regulations are satisfied;

56.d

make provision as to the persons who may exercise powers conferred by
regulations under this paragraph.

57

The regulations may revoke or amend the Heat Network (Metering and Billing)
Regulations 2014 ( S.I. 2014/3120 ).

##### Consumer protection

###### Standards of performance

58

58.1

The regulations may prescribe such standards of performance in connection with
the regulated activities of holders of heat network authorisations, so far as
affecting—

58.1.a

heat network consumers supplied by the relevant heat networks to which their
authorisations relate, or

58.1.b

potential heat network consumers who would be supplied by those relevant heat
networks,

as in the Regulator’s opinion ought to be achieved as regards those persons.

58.2

The regulations may—

58.2.a

specify the circumstances in which the holders of heat network authorisations
are to inform persons of rights conferred on them under regulations made by
virtue of  this paragraph ;

58.2.b

provide for exemptions from standards of performance;

58.2.c

require the holders of heat network authorisations to provide information
about their compliance with standards of performance.

58.3

The regulations may provide—

58.3.a

for compensation to be made to persons affected by a failure to meet a
standard of performance;

58.3.b

for the determination of the amount of compensation.

58.4

The regulations may provide for the making of compensation under regulations
made by virtue of this paragraph in respect of a failure to meet a standard of
performance not to prejudice any other remedy which may be available in
respect of the act or omission which constituted the failure.

58.5

Regulations made in relation to England and Wales and Scotland by virtue of
sub-paragraphs (1)  to  (3) , may provide for the Regulator to make provision
by regulations about the matters referred to in those sub-paragraphs.

58.6

The regulations may require that regulations made by the Regulator by virtue
of  sub-paragraph (5)  are made with the consent of the Secretary of State.

58.7

Regulations made by the Regulator by virtue of  sub-paragraph (5)  are to be
made by statutory instrument.

59

59.1

The regulations may provide for the Regulator, from time to time—

59.1.a

to determine such standards of overall performance in connection with
regulated activities as, in the Regulator’s opinion, ought to be achieved by
holders of heat network authorisations;

59.1.b

to publish those standards.

59.2

The regulations may provide for the Regulator to determine different standards
for different descriptions of holders of heat network authorisations.

59.3

The regulations may require holders of heat network authorisations to conduct
their regulated activities in such a way as can reasonably be expected to lead
to compliance with standards set under regulations made by virtue of  this
paragraph .

60

60.1

The regulations may make provision about the steps to be taken in connection
with prescribing or determining standards of performance under  paragraph 58
or  59 .

60.2

The regulations may, in particular, make provision about—

60.2.a

conducting research;

60.2.b

publishing information about proposals to prescribe or determine standards;

60.2.c

considering representations about proposals;

60.2.d

consulting such persons or descriptions of person as are specified in the
regulations.

###### Consumer advocacy bodies

61

61.1

The regulations may provide for Part 1 of the Consumers, Estate Agents and
Redress Act 2007 (consumer advocacy bodies) to apply in relation to heat
network consumers as it applies in relation to gas or electricity consumers,
with such modifications as appear to the appropriate authority to be
appropriate.

61.2

The regulations may provide for sections 24 and 25 of the Consumers, Estate
Agents and Redress Act 2007 (provision of information to consumer advocacy
bodies) to apply in relation to relevant persons as they apply to regulated
providers within the meaning of section 25 of that Act, with such
modifications as appear to the appropriate authority to be appropriate.

61.3

The regulations may also make provision extending to Northern Ireland or
applying in relation to the General Consumer Council for Northern Ireland that
corresponds to such provision in Part 1 of the Consumers, Estate Agents and
Redress Act 2007 as does not extend to Northern Ireland or does not apply in
relation to the General Consumer Council for Northern Ireland (as the case may
be).

61.4

In this paragraph, “ the appropriate authority ” means—

61.4.a

in relation to England and Wales and Scotland, the Secretary of State;

61.4.b

in relation to Northern Ireland, the Department.

###### Complaints handling and redress schemes

62

The regulations may provide for Part 2 of the Consumers, Estate Agents and
Redress Act 2007 (complaints handling and redress schemes)—

62.a

to apply in relation to heat network consumers in England, Wales or Scotland
as it applies in relation to gas or electricity consumers, with such
modifications as appear to the Secretary of State to be appropriate;

62.b

to apply in relation to relevant persons in England, Wales or Scotland as it
applies in relation to regulated providers within the meaning of that Part,
with such modifications as appear to the Secretary of State to be appropriate.

###### Consumer complaints and dispute resolution arrangements: Northern Ireland

63

63.1

The regulations may, in relation to Northern Ireland, provide for consumer
complaints legislation to apply in relation to a heat network consumer or
potential heat network consumer as it applies in relation to a customer or
potential customer of, or user of electricity or gas supplied by, an
authorised supplier, with such modifications as appear to the Department to be
appropriate.

63.2

In  this paragraph , “ consumer complaints legislation ” means Article 22 of
the Energy (Northern Ireland) Order 2003 ( S.I. 2003/419 (N.I. 6))  and such
other provisions of that Order as relate to it.

64

The regulations may, in relation to Northern Ireland, make provision about the
resolution of disputes involving a heat network consumer or potential heat
network consumer (including by providing for a scheme under which complaints
may be made to, and investigated and determined by, an independent person or
may be referred to arbitration).

###### Documents for Citizens Advice, Consumer Scotland and the General Consumer Council for Northern Ireland

65

The regulations may make provision requiring the Regulator, where the
Regulator publishes a document of a description specified in the regulations,
to send a copy of the document to—

65.a

Citizens Advice and Consumer Scotland, or

65.b

the General Consumer Council for Northern Ireland (as the case may be).

##### Financial arrangements

66

66.1

The regulations may provide for the Regulator to include in the conditions of
heat network authorisations provision requiring the payment of sums relating
to the costs incurred by the Secretary of State or the Department in giving
financial assistance under regulations made by virtue of  paragraph 50  that
apply—

66.1.a

any provision of sections 165 to 167 of the Energy Act 2004 (grants, loans,
indemnities and guarantees given by the Secretary of State), or

66.1.b

any provision of sections 28 to 30 of the Energy Act (Northern Ireland) 2011
(grants, loans, indemnities and guarantees given by the Department).

66.2

The regulations may—

66.2.a

provide for the Secretary of State or the Department to give directions to the
Regulator for the purpose of securing that sums relating to those costs are
included in the sums payable by virtue of conditions in heat network
authorisations;

66.2.b

provide for the Regulator to comply with any such direction.

67

67.1

The regulations may provide for the Regulator to include in—

67.1.a

the conditions of a heat network authorisation, or

67.1.b

the conditions of an installation and maintenance licence,

provision requiring the payment of sums relating to the costs incurred by a
person or body in providing, or arranging for the provision of, consumer
advocacy and advice in relation to heat network consumers.

67.2

The regulations may—

67.2.a

provide for the Secretary of State or the Department to give directions to the
Regulator for the purpose of securing that sums relating to those costs are
included in the sums payable by virtue of conditions in heat network
authorisations or installation and maintenance licences;

67.2.b

provide for the Regulator to comply with any such direction.

68

The regulations may make provision for the Regulator to pay into the
Consolidated Fund or the Consolidated Fund of Northern Ireland sums received
in consequence of—

68.a

provision made by or under the regulations, or

68.b

a condition of a heat network authorisation, code manager licence or
installation and maintenance licence.

##### Miscellaneous and general

###### Consultation and cooperation

69

The regulations may—

69.a

make provision about consultation and cooperation with such persons or
descriptions of person as are specified in the regulations;

69.b

make provision as to the purposes of such cooperation.

70

The regulations may require the Regulator to assist a public authority that
carries out, in relation to Wales or Scotland, functions as regards limiting
targeted greenhouse gases in relation to heat networks (including by providing
information).

###### Objectives of the Secretary of State and the Department

71

71.1

The regulations may make provision about the objectives of the Secretary of
State and the Department in carrying out functions under the regulations.

71.2

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1)  may, in particular, provide
that the principal objective of the Secretary of State or the Department is to
protect the interests of existing and future heat network consumers.

71.3

The regulations may specify particular interests of existing and future heat
network consumers that are to be protected.

###### Offences

72

72.1

The regulations may provide for the creation of offences.

72.2

The regulations may deal with matters relating to such offences, including the
provision of defences and evidentiary matters.

73

73.1

The regulations may provide for an offence created by virtue of regulations
made under  paragraph 72  to be triable—

73.1.a

only summarily, or

73.1.b

either summarily or on indictment.

73.2

The regulations must provide for such an offence to be punishable on
indictment with a fine.

73.3

The regulations must provide for such an offence to be punishable on summary
conviction in England and Wales with a fine.

73.4

The regulations must provide for such an offence to be punishable on summary
conviction in Scotland or Northern Ireland with a fine not exceeding an amount
specified in the regulations.

###### Crown application

74

74.1

The regulations may make provision about application to the Crown.

74.2

The regulations may also, to the extent that they bind the Crown, restrict or
modify the application of the regulations.

74.3

Regulations made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (2)  may, in particular, provide
that a power exercisable in relation to land in which there is a Crown or
Duchy interest is subject to a requirement to obtain consent from a person
specified in the regulations.

74.4

In  this paragraph , “ Crown or Duchy interest ” means—

74.4.a

an interest belonging to His Majesty in right of the Crown or the Duchy of
Lancaster, or to the Duchy of Cornwall;

74.4.b

an interest which belongs to a government department or which is held in trust
for His Majesty for the purposes of a government department;

74.4.c

an interest which belongs to an office-holder in the Scottish Administration
or which is held in trust for His Majesty for the purposes of the Scottish
Administration by such an office-holder.

74.5

This includes, in particular—

74.5.a

an interest which belongs to His Majesty in right of His Majesty’s Government
in Northern Ireland, and

74.5.b

an interest which belongs to a Northern Ireland department or which is held in
trust for His Majesty for the purposes of a Northern Ireland department.

74.6

A reference in this paragraph to an office-holder in the Scottish
Administration is to be construed in accordance with section 126(7) of the
Scotland Act 1998.

  Licensing of activities relating to load control

Section 249

1

The Electricity Act 1989 is amended as follows.

2

After section 56FB insert—

######## New licensable activities: load control of energy smart appliances

2.56FBA

2.56FBA.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this Part so as—

2.56FBA.1.a

to provide for one or more activities within subsection  (2)  to be added to
the activities which are licensable activities, or

2.56FBA.1.b

where regulations have previously been made under paragraph  (a)  in relation
to an activity—

2.56FBA.1.b.i

to amend the definition of the activity, or

2.56FBA.1.b.ii

to provide for the activity to cease to be a licensable activity.

2.56FBA.2

The activities within this subsection are activities connected with—

2.56FBA.2.a

the carrying on or facilitating of load control;

2.56FBA.2.b

the provision of services or facilities related to load control;

but not the activities mentioned in subsection  (3) .

2.56FBA.3

The activities within this subsection are—

2.56FBA.3.a

the provision of relevant electronic communications networks;

2.56FBA.3.b

the making, selling, importing or distributing of energy smart appliances;

2.56FBA.3.c

things done by end-users of energy smart appliances (in their capacity as
such).

2.56FBA.4

Regulations under  subsection (1) (a)  may define activities which are to
become licensable activities in any manner the Secretary of State considers
appropriate, including—

2.56FBA.4.a

by reference to the purpose for which an activity is carried out; and

2.56FBA.4.b

by reference to the position of an activity in a sequence of activities
necessary to secure a particular outcome.

2.56FBA.5

Regulations under this section may make consequential, transitional,
incidental or supplementary provision, including—

2.56FBA.5.a

amendments (or repeals) of any provision of this Act or any other enactment,
including any enactment comprised in, or an instrument made under, an Act of
the Scottish Parliament;

2.56FBA.5.b

in the case of regulations under  subsection (1) (a) , provision determining
the conditions which are to be standard conditions for the purposes of
licences authorising the undertaking of the activities;

2.56FBA.5.c

provision modifying any standard conditions of licences.

2.56FBA.6

Transitional provision under subsection  (5)  may in particular include
provision about persons already undertaking activities that are to become
licensable activities by virtue of  subsection (1) (a) , such as provision—

2.56FBA.6.a

about the application to such persons of section 4(1);

2.56FBA.6.b

about the granting of licences to such persons.

2.56FBA.7

Regulations under this section may, in particular, also make provision—

2.56FBA.7.a

for licences to authorise the holder to carry out the licensable activities in
any area, or only in an area specified in the licence;

2.56FBA.7.b

enabling the terms of the licence to be modified so as to extend or restrict
the area in which the licence holder may carry on the licensable activities;

2.56FBA.7.c

specifying that a licence, and any modification of a licence, must be in
writing;

2.56FBA.7.d

for a licence, if not previously revoked, to continue in force for such period
as may be specified in or determined by or under the licence;

2.56FBA.7.e

conferring functions on the Secretary of State or the Authority.

2.56FBA.8

In this section, “energy smart appliance”, “load control” and “relevant
electronic communications network” have the same meaning as in Part 8 of the
Energy Act 2023.

######## Regulations under 

2.56FBB

2.56FBB.1

Before making regulations under  section 56FBA , the Secretary of State must
consult—

2.56FBB.1.a

the Authority, and

2.56FBB.1.b

such other persons as the Secretary of State thinks appropriate.

2.56FBB.2

Subsection (1) may be satisfied by consultation before, as well as by
consultation after, the passing of this Act.

2.56FBB.3

The power to make such regulations may not be exercised after the end of a
period of seven years beginning with the day on which the first such
regulations come into force (for any purpose).

2.56FBB.4

Regulations under  section 56FBA  may not be made unless a draft of the
statutory instrument containing them has been laid before, and approved by
resolution of, each House of Parliament.

3

At the end of section 56FC(2) (competitive tenders: definition of “new
licensable activities”), insert  “or regulations under  section 56FBA (1) (a)
” .

4

In section 106(2)(a) (regulations and orders), after “State” insert  “(other
than regulations under  section 56FBA )” .

  Enforcement undertakings

Section 284

##### Procedure

1

1.1

The Secretary of State must publish a procedure for entering into enforcement
undertakings.

1.2

The Secretary of State may revise the procedure (and must publish any revised
procedure).

1.3

The Secretary of State must consult any persons the Secretary of State
considers appropriate before publishing or revising the procedure.

##### Variation of terms

2

The terms of an enforcement undertaking (including, in particular, the action
specified under it and the period so specified within which the action must be
taken) may be varied if both parties agree in writing.

##### Compliance certificates

3

3.1

Where the Secretary of State is satisfied that an enforcement undertaking has
been complied with, the Secretary of State must issue a certificate to that
effect (referred to in this Schedule as a “ compliance certificate ”).

3.2

A person may at any time apply to the Secretary of State for a compliance
certificate.

3.3

The Secretary of State may specify in what form an application under  sub-
paragraph (2)  must be made and what information (if any) must accompany it.

3.4

Where an application is made under  sub-paragraph (2) , the Secretary of State
must give the applicant notice in writing of the Secretary of State’s decision
on the application within 14 days beginning with the day after the day on
which the application is received.

##### Inaccurate, incomplete or misleading information

4

Where the Secretary of State is satisfied that a person who has given an
enforcement undertaking has provided inaccurate, misleading or incomplete
information in relation to the undertaking, the Secretary of State may treat
the person as having failed to comply with the undertaking (and, if the
Secretary of State decides so to treat the person, must by notice revoke any
compliance certificate given to the person in respect of the enforcement
undertaking).

##### Appeal against decision under 

5

5.1

An appeal lies to the First-tier Tribunal against a decision of the Secretary
of State to refuse an application for a compliance certificate or, in reliance
on paragraph  4 , to treat the person as having failed to comply with an
enforcement undertaking.

5.2

The grounds for appeal are that the decision is—

5.2.a

based on an error of fact,

5.2.b

wrong in law,

5.2.c

unfair or unreasonable, or

5.2.d

wrong for any other reason.

5.3

On an appeal under this paragraph, the First-tier Tribunal may—

5.3.a

confirm the Secretary of State’s decision or direct that it is not to have
effect;

5.3.b

award costs or, in Scotland, expenses.

Petroleum licences: amendments to model clauses

Section 300

##### Petroleum (Production) (Landward Areas) Regulations 1995

1

In the Petroleum (Production) (Landward Areas) Regulations 1995 ( S.I.
1995/1436 ), Schedule 3 (model clauses for petroleum exploration and
development licences in landward areas) is amended as follows.

2

After clause 37 insert—

######### Change in control of Licensee

2.37A

2.37A.1

This clause applies if—

2.37A.1.a

the Licensee is a company, or

2.37A.1.b

where two or more persons are the Licensee, any of those persons is a company,

and references in this clause to a company are to such a company.

2.37A.2

A change in control of a company is not permitted without the consent of the
Oil and Gas Authority (“the OGA”).

2.37A.3

There is a “change in control” of a company if a person takes control of the
company, not having previously been a person who controlled the company.

2.37A.4

If a change in control of a company is contemplated, the company must apply in
writing to the OGA for consent at least three months before the date on which
it is proposed that the change would occur (if consent were given).

2.37A.5

The OGA may—

2.37A.5.a

consent to the change in control unconditionally,

2.37A.5.b

consent to the change in control subject to conditions, or

2.37A.5.c

refuse consent to the change in control.

2.37A.6

If the OGA proposes to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse
consent, the OGA must, before making a final decision—

2.37A.6.a

give the company an opportunity to make representations, and

2.37A.6.b

consider any representations that are made.

2.37A.7

The general rule is that the OGA must decide an application within three
months of receiving it, but the OGA may delay its decision by notifying the
interested parties in writing.

2.37A.8

Conditions as mentioned in paragraph (5)(b) may be imposed on the person
taking control of the company (as well as on the company), and may include—

2.37A.8.a

conditions relating to the arrangements for the change in control, including
the date by which it must occur,

2.37A.8.b

conditions relating to the performance of activities permitted by this
licence, and

2.37A.8.c

financial conditions.

2.37A.9

The OGA’s decision on the application, and any conditions as mentioned in
paragraph (5)(b), must be notified in writing to the interested parties.

2.37A.10

In this clause “ the interested parties ” means—

2.37A.10.a

the company,

2.37A.10.b

the person who (if consent were granted) would take control of the company,
and

2.37A.10.c

if the company and another person or persons are the Licensee, that other
person or those other persons.

2.37A.11

For the purposes of this clause, the question of whether a person has control
of a company is to be determined in accordance with the test set out in clause
37(4).

3

3.1

Clause 38 (power of revocation) is amended as follows.

3.2

In paragraph (2)—

3.2.a

after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

3.2.a.j

if the Licensee is a company, any breach of a condition subject to which the
Oil and Gas Authority gave its consent to a change in control of the Licensee
(see clause 37A);

3.2.a.k

if the Licensee is a company, any failure to provide full and accurate
information in response to a notice given by the Oil and Gas Authority to that
company under section 5D of the Petroleum Act 1998;

;

3.2.b

in the closing words, after “(g)” insert  “or (j) or (k)” .

3.3

Omit paragraphs (3) to (5).

4

4.1

Clause 38A (power of partial revocation) is amended as follows.

4.2

For paragraph (1) substitute—

4.2.1

This clause applies in a case where two or more persons are the Licensee and—

4.2.1.a

an event mentioned in clause 38(2)(c), (d), (e) or (g) occurs in relation to
one of those persons;

4.2.1.b

an event mentioned in clause 38(2)(b) occurs which consists of a breach of
clause 37A(2) or (4) in relation to a change in control of one of those
persons;

4.2.1.c

an event mentioned in clause 38(2)(j) occurs in relation to a change in
control of one of those persons (see clause 37A); or

4.2.1.d

an event mentioned in clause 38(2)(k) occurs which consists of a failure by
one of those persons as mentioned in that provision.

4.3

In paragraph (2), for “or (b)” substitute  “, (b), (c) or (d)” .

##### Petroleum (Current Model Clauses) Order 1999

###### Introduction

5

The Petroleum (Current Model Clauses) Order 1999 ( S.I. 1999/160 ) is amended
in accordance with this Part of this Schedule.

###### Part 2 of Schedule 2

6

Part 2 of Schedule 2 (current model clauses for controlled waters or seaward
production licences deriving from Schedule 2 to the 1964 Regulations and
Schedule 4 to the 1966 Regulations) is amended in accordance with paragraphs
7  to  9 .

7

After clause 38 insert—

########## Change in control of Licensee

7.38A

7.38A.1

This clause applies if—

7.38A.1.a

the Licensee is a company, or

7.38A.1.b

where two or more persons are the Licensee, any of those persons is a company,

and references in this clause to a company are to such a company.

7.38A.2

A change in control of a company is not permitted without the consent of the
Oil and Gas Authority (“the OGA”).

7.38A.3

There is a “change in control” of a company if a person takes control of the
company, not having previously been a person who controlled the company.

7.38A.4

If a change in control of a company is contemplated, the company must apply in
writing to the OGA for consent at least three months before the date on which
it is proposed that the change would occur (if consent were given).

7.38A.5

The OGA may—

7.38A.5.a

consent to the change in control unconditionally,

7.38A.5.b

consent to the change in control subject to conditions, or

7.38A.5.c

refuse consent to the change in control.

7.38A.6

If the OGA proposes to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse
consent, the OGA must, before making a final decision—

7.38A.6.a

give the company an opportunity to make representations, and

7.38A.6.b

consider any representations that are made.

7.38A.7

The general rule is that the OGA must decide an application within three
months of receiving it, but the OGA may delay its decision by notifying the
interested parties in writing.

7.38A.8

Conditions as mentioned in paragraph (5)(b) may be imposed on the person
taking control of the company (as well as on the company), and may include—

7.38A.8.a

conditions relating to the arrangements for the change in control, including
the date by which it must occur,

7.38A.8.b

conditions relating to the performance of activities permitted by this
licence, and

7.38A.8.c

financial conditions.

7.38A.9

The OGA’s decision on the application, and any conditions as mentioned in
paragraph (5)(b), must be notified in writing to the interested parties.

7.38A.10

In this clause “ the interested parties ” means—

7.38A.10.a

the company,

7.38A.10.b

the person who (if consent were granted) would take control of the company,
and

7.38A.10.c

if the company and another person or persons are the Licensee, that other
person or those other persons.

7.38A.11

For the purposes of this clause, the question of whether a person has control
of a company is to be determined in accordance with the test set out in clause
38(4).

8

8.1

Clause 39 (power of revocation) is amended as follows.

8.2

In paragraph (2)—

8.2.a

after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

8.2.a.j

if the Licensee is a company, any breach of a condition subject to which the
Oil and Gas Authority gave its consent to a change in control of the Licensee
(see clause 38A);

8.2.a.k

if the Licensee is a company, any failure to provide full and accurate
information in response to a notice given by the Oil and Gas Authority to that
company under section 5D of the Act of 1998;

;

8.2.b

in the closing words, after “(g)” insert  “or (j) or (k)” .

8.3

Omit paragraphs (3) to (5).

9

9.1

Clause 39A (power of partial revocation) is amended as follows.

9.2

For paragraph (1) substitute—

9.2.1

This clause applies in a case where two or more persons are the Licensee and—

9.2.1.a

an event mentioned in clause 39(2)(c), (d), (e) or (g) occurs in relation to
one of those persons;

9.2.1.b

an event mentioned in clause 39(2)(b) occurs which consists of a breach of
clause 38A(2) or (4) in relation to a change in control of one of those
persons;

9.2.1.c

an event mentioned in clause 39(2)(j) occurs in relation to a change in
control of one of those persons (see clause 38A); or

9.2.1.d

an event mentioned in clause 39(2)(k) occurs which consists of a failure by
one of those persons as mentioned in that provision.

9.3

In paragraph (2), for “or (b)” substitute  “, (b), (c) or (d)” .

###### Part 2 of Schedule 3

10

Part 2 of Schedule 3 (current model clauses for landward production licences
deriving from Schedule 3 to the 1966 regulations) is amended in accordance
with paragraphs  11  to  13 .

11

After clause 36 insert—

########## Change in control of Licensee

11.36A

11.36A.1

This clause applies if—

11.36A.1.a

the Licensee is a company, or

11.36A.1.b

where two or more persons are the Licensee, any of those persons is a company,

and references in this clause to a company are to such a company.

11.36A.2

A change in control of a company is not permitted without the consent of the
Oil and Gas Authority (“the OGA”).

11.36A.3

There is a “change in control” of a company if a person takes control of the
company, not having previously been a person who controlled the company.

11.36A.4

If a change in control of a company is contemplated, the company must apply in
writing to the OGA for consent at least three months before the date on which
it is proposed that the change would occur (if consent were given).

11.36A.5

The OGA may—

11.36A.5.a

consent to the change in control unconditionally,

11.36A.5.b

consent to the change in control subject to conditions, or

11.36A.5.c

refuse consent to the change in control.

11.36A.6

If the OGA proposes to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse
consent, the OGA must, before making a final decision—

11.36A.6.a

give the company an opportunity to make representations, and

11.36A.6.b

consider any representations that are made.

11.36A.7

The general rule is that the OGA must decide an application within three
months of receiving it, but the OGA may delay its decision by notifying the
interested parties in writing.

11.36A.8

Conditions as mentioned in paragraph (5)(b) may be imposed on the person
taking control of the company (as well as on the company), and may include—

11.36A.8.a

conditions relating to the arrangements for the change in control, including
the date by which it must occur,

11.36A.8.b

conditions relating to the performance of activities permitted by this
licence, and

11.36A.8.c

financial conditions.

11.36A.9

The OGA’s decision on the application, and any conditions as mentioned in
paragraph (5)(b), must be notified in writing to the interested parties.

11.36A.10

In this clause “ the interested parties ” means—

11.36A.10.a

the company,

11.36A.10.b

the person who (if consent were granted) would take control of the company,
and

11.36A.10.c

if the company and another person or persons are the Licensee, that other
person or those other persons.

11.36A.11

For the purposes of this clause, the question of whether a person has control
of a company is to be determined in accordance with the test set out in clause
36(3).

12

12.1

Clause 37 (power of revocation) is amended as follows.

12.2

In paragraph (2)—

12.2.a

after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

12.2.a.j

if the Licensee is a company, any breach of a condition subject to which the
Oil and Gas Authority gave its consent to a change in control of the Licensee
(see clause 36A);

12.2.a.k

if the Licensee is a company, any failure to provide full and accurate
information in response to a notice given by the Oil and Gas Authority to that
company under section 5D of the Act of 1998;

;

12.2.b

in the closing words, after “(g)” insert  “or (j) or (k)” .

12.3

Omit paragraphs (3) to (5).

13

13.1

Clause 37A (power of partial revocation) is amended as follows.

13.2

For paragraph (1) substitute—

13.2.1

This clause applies in a case where two or more persons are the Licensee and—

13.2.1.a

an event mentioned in clause 37(2)(c), (d), (e) or (g) occurs in relation to
one of those persons;

13.2.1.b

an event mentioned in clause 37(2)(b) occurs which consists of a breach of
clause 36A(2) or (4) in relation to a change in control of one of those
persons;

13.2.1.c

an event mentioned in clause 37(2)(j) occurs in relation to a change in
control of one of those persons (see clause 36A); or

13.2.1.d

an event mentioned in clause 37(2)(k) occurs which consists of a failure by
one of those persons as mentioned in that provision.

13.3

In paragraph (2), for “or (b)” substitute  “, (b), (c) or (d)” .

###### Part 2 of Schedule 4

14

Part 2 of Schedule 4 (current model clauses for landward production licences
deriving from Schedule 4 to the 1976 Regulations or Schedule 4 to the 1982
Regulations) is amended in accordance with paragraphs  15  to  17 .

15

After clause 37 insert—

########## Change in control of Licensee

15.37A

15.37A.1

This clause applies if—

15.37A.1.a

the Licensee is a company, or

15.37A.1.b

where two or more persons are the Licensee, any of those persons is a company,

and references in this clause to a company are to such a company.

15.37A.2

A change in control of a company is not permitted without the consent of the
Oil and Gas Authority (“the OGA”).

15.37A.3

There is a “change in control” of a company if a person takes control of the
company, not having previously been a person who controlled the company.

15.37A.4

If a change in control of a company is contemplated, the company must apply in
writing to the OGA for consent at least three months before the date on which
it is proposed that the change would occur (if consent were given).

15.37A.5

The OGA may—

15.37A.5.a

consent to the change in control unconditionally,

15.37A.5.b

consent to the change in control subject to conditions, or

15.37A.5.c

refuse consent to the change in control.

15.37A.6

If the OGA proposes to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse
consent, the OGA must, before making a final decision—

15.37A.6.a

give the company an opportunity to make representations, and

15.37A.6.b

consider any representations that are made.

15.37A.7

The general rule is that the OGA must decide an application within three
months of receiving it, but the OGA may delay its decision by notifying the
interested parties in writing.

15.37A.8

Conditions as mentioned in paragraph (5)(b) may be imposed on the person
taking control of the company (as well as on the company), and may include—

15.37A.8.a

conditions relating to the arrangements for the change in control, including
the date by which it must occur,

15.37A.8.b

conditions relating to the performance of activities permitted by this
licence, and

15.37A.8.c

financial conditions.

15.37A.9

The OGA’s decision on the application, and any conditions as mentioned in
paragraph (5)(b), must be notified in writing to the interested parties.

15.37A.10

In this clause “ the interested parties ” means—

15.37A.10.a

the company,

15.37A.10.b

the person who (if consent were granted) would take control of the company,
and

15.37A.10.c

if the company and another person or persons are the Licensee, that other
person or those other persons.

15.37A.11

For the purposes of this clause, the question of whether a person has control
of a company is to be determined in accordance with the test set out in clause
37(3).

16

16.1

Clause 38 (power of revocation) is amended as follows.

16.2

In paragraph (2)—

16.2.a

after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

16.2.a.j

if the Licensee is a company, any breach of a condition subject to which the
Oil and Gas Authority gave its consent to a change in control of the Licensee
(see clause 37A);

16.2.a.k

if the Licensee is a company, any failure to provide full and accurate
information in response to a notice given by the Oil and Gas Authority to that
company under section 5D of the Act of 1998;

;

16.2.b

in the closing words, after “(g)” insert  “or (j) or (k)” .

16.3

Omit paragraphs (3) to (5).

17

17.1

Clause 38A (power of partial revocation) is amended as follows.

17.2

For paragraph (1) substitute—

17.2.1

This clause applies in a case where two or more persons are the Licensee and—

17.2.1.a

an event mentioned in clause 38(2)(c), (d), (e) or (g) occurs in relation to
one of those persons;

17.2.1.b

an event mentioned in clause 38(2)(b) occurs which consists of a breach of
clause 37A(2) or (4) in relation to a change in control of one of those
persons;

17.2.1.c

an event mentioned in clause 38(2)(j) occurs in relation to a change in
control of one of those persons (see clause 37A); or

17.2.1.d

an event mentioned in clause 38(2)(k) occurs which consists of a failure by
one of those persons as mentioned in that provision.

17.3

In paragraph (2), for “or (b)” substitute  “, (b), (c) or (d)” .

###### Part 2 of Schedule 5

18

Part 2 of Schedule 5 (current model clauses for seaward production licences
deriving from Schedule 5 to the 1976 Regulations) is amended in accordance
with paragraphs  19  to  21 .

19

After clause 39 insert—

########## Change in control of Licensee

19.39A

19.39A.1

This clause applies if—

19.39A.1.a

the Licensee is a company, or

19.39A.1.b

where two or more persons are the Licensee, any of those persons is a company,

and references in this clause to a company are to such a company.

19.39A.2

A change in control of a company is not permitted without the consent of the
Oil and Gas Authority (“the OGA”).

19.39A.3

There is a “change in control” of a company if a person takes control of the
company, not having previously been a person who controlled the company.

19.39A.4

If a change in control of a company is contemplated, the company must apply in
writing to the OGA for consent at least three months before the date on which
it is proposed that the change would occur (if consent were given).

19.39A.5

The OGA may—

19.39A.5.a

consent to the change in control unconditionally,

19.39A.5.b

consent to the change in control subject to conditions, or

19.39A.5.c

refuse consent to the change in control.

19.39A.6

If the OGA proposes to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse
consent, the OGA must, before making a final decision—

19.39A.6.a

give the company an opportunity to make representations, and

19.39A.6.b

consider any representations that are made.

19.39A.7

The general rule is that the OGA must decide an application within three
months of receiving it, but the OGA may delay its decision by notifying the
interested parties in writing.

19.39A.8

Conditions as mentioned in paragraph (5)(b) may be imposed on the person
taking control of the company (as well as on the company), and may include—

19.39A.8.a

conditions relating to the arrangements for the change in control, including
the date by which it must occur,

19.39A.8.b

conditions relating to the performance of activities permitted by this
licence, and

19.39A.8.c

financial conditions.

19.39A.9

The OGA’s decision on the application, and any conditions as mentioned in
paragraph (5)(b), must be notified in writing to the interested parties.

19.39A.10

In this clause “ the interested parties ” means—

19.39A.10.a

the company,

19.39A.10.b

the person who (if consent were granted) would take control of the company,
and

19.39A.10.c

if the company and another person or persons are the Licensee, that other
person or those other persons.

19.39A.11

For the purposes of this clause, the question of whether a person has control
of a company is to be determined in accordance with the test set out in clause
39(4).

20

20.1

Clause 40 (power of revocation) is amended as follows.

20.2

In paragraph (2)—

20.2.a

after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

20.2.a.j

if the Licensee is a company, any breach of a condition subject to which the
Oil and Gas Authority gave its consent to a change in control of the Licensee
(see clause 39A);

20.2.a.k

if the Licensee is a company, any failure to provide full and accurate
information in response to a notice given by the Oil and Gas Authority to that
company under section 5D of the Act of 1998;

;

20.2.b

in the closing words, after “(g)” insert  “or (j) or (k)” .

20.3

Omit paragraphs (3) to (5).

21

21.1

Clause 40A (power of partial revocation) is amended as follows.

21.2

For paragraph (1) substitute—

21.2.1

This clause applies in a case where two or more persons are the Licensee and—

21.2.1.a

an event mentioned in clause 40(2)(c), (d), (e) or (g) occurs in relation to
one of those persons;

21.2.1.b

an event mentioned in clause 40(2)(b) occurs which consists of a breach of
clause 39A(2) or (4) in relation to a change in control of one of those
persons;

21.2.1.c

an event mentioned in clause 40(2)(j) occurs in relation to a change in
control of one of those persons (see clause 39A); or

21.2.1.d

an event mentioned in clause 40(2)(k) occurs which consists of a failure by
one of those persons as mentioned in that provision.

21.3

In paragraph (2), for “or (b)” substitute  “, (b), (c) or (d)” .

###### Part 2 of Schedule 6

22

Part 2 of Schedule 6 (current model clauses for seaward production licences
deriving from Schedule 5 to the 1982 Regulations) is amended in accordance
with paragraphs  23  to  25 .

23

After clause 38 insert—

########## Change in control of Licensee

23.38A

23.38A.1

This clause applies if—

23.38A.1.a

the Licensee is a company, or

23.38A.1.b

where two or more persons are the Licensee, any of those persons is a company,

and references in this clause to a company are to such a company.

23.38A.2

A change in control of a company is not permitted without the consent of the
Oil and Gas Authority (“the OGA”).

23.38A.3

There is a “change in control” of a company if a person takes control of the
company, not having previously been a person who controlled the company.

23.38A.4

If a change in control of a company is contemplated, the company must apply in
writing to the OGA for consent at least three months before the date on which
it is proposed that the change would occur (if consent were given).

23.38A.5

The OGA may—

23.38A.5.a

consent to the change in control unconditionally,

23.38A.5.b

consent to the change in control subject to conditions, or

23.38A.5.c

refuse consent to the change in control.

23.38A.6

If the OGA proposes to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse
consent, the OGA must, before making a final decision—

23.38A.6.a

give the company an opportunity to make representations, and

23.38A.6.b

consider any representations that are made.

23.38A.7

The general rule is that the OGA must decide an application within three
months of receiving it, but the OGA may delay its decision by notifying the
interested parties in writing.

23.38A.8

Conditions as mentioned in paragraph (5)(b) may be imposed on the person
taking control of the company (as well as on the company), and may include—

23.38A.8.a

conditions relating to the arrangements for the change in control, including
the date by which it must occur,

23.38A.8.b

conditions relating to the performance of activities permitted by this
licence, and

23.38A.8.c

financial conditions.

23.38A.9

The OGA’s decision on the application, and any conditions as mentioned in
paragraph (5)(b), must be notified in writing to the interested parties.

23.38A.10

In this clause “ the interested parties ” means—

23.38A.10.a

the company,

23.38A.10.b

the person who (if consent were granted) would take control of the company,
and

23.38A.10.c

if the company and another person or persons are the Licensee, that other
person or those other persons.

23.38A.11

For the purposes of this clause, the question of whether a person has control
of a company is to be determined in accordance with the test set out in clause
38(4).

24

24.1

Clause 39 (power of revocation) is amended as follows.

24.2

In paragraph (2)—

24.2.a

after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

24.2.a.j

if the Licensee is a company, any breach of a condition subject to which the
Oil and Gas Authority gave its consent to a change in control of the Licensee
(see clause 38A);

24.2.a.k

if the Licensee is a company, any failure to provide full and accurate
information in response to a notice given by the Oil and Gas Authority to that
company under section 5D of the Act of 1998;

;

24.2.b

in the closing words, after “(g)” insert  “or (j) or (k)” .

24.3

Omit paragraphs (3) to (5).

25

25.1

Clause 39A (power of partial revocation) is amended as follows.

25.2

For paragraph (1) substitute—

25.2.1

This clause applies in a case where two or more persons are the Licensee and—

25.2.1.a

an event mentioned in clause 39(2)(c), (d), (e) or (g) occurs in relation to
one of those persons;

25.2.1.b

an event mentioned in clause 39(2)(b) occurs which consists of a breach of
clause 38A(2) or (4) in relation to a change in control of one of those
persons;

25.2.1.c

an event mentioned in clause 39(2)(j) occurs in relation to a change in
control of one of those persons (see clause 38A); or

25.2.1.d

an event mentioned in clause 39(2)(k) occurs which consists of a failure by
one of those persons as mentioned in that provision.

25.3

In paragraph (2), for “or (b)” substitute  “, (b), (c) or (d)” .

###### Part 2 of Schedule 8

26

Part 2 of Schedule 8 (current model clauses for landward development licences
deriving from Schedule 5 to the 1984 Regulations) is amended in accordance
with paragraphs  27  to  29 .

27

After clause 35 insert—

########## Change in control of Licensee

27.35A

27.35A.1

This clause applies if—

27.35A.1.a

the Licensee is a company, or

27.35A.1.b

where two or more persons are the Licensee, any of those persons is a company,

and references in this clause to a company are to such a company.

27.35A.2

A change in control of a company is not permitted without the consent of the
Oil and Gas Authority (“the OGA”).

27.35A.3

There is a “change in control” of a company if a person takes control of the
company, not having previously been a person who controlled the company.

27.35A.4

If a change in control of a company is contemplated, the company must apply in
writing to the OGA for consent at least three months before the date on which
it is proposed that the change would occur (if consent were given).

27.35A.5

The OGA may—

27.35A.5.a

consent to the change in control unconditionally,

27.35A.5.b

consent to the change in control subject to conditions, or

27.35A.5.c

refuse consent to the change in control.

27.35A.6

If the OGA proposes to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse
consent, the OGA must, before making a final decision—

27.35A.6.a

give the company an opportunity to make representations, and

27.35A.6.b

consider any representations that are made.

27.35A.7

The general rule is that the OGA must decide an application within three
months of receiving it, but the OGA may delay its decision by notifying the
interested parties in writing.

27.35A.8

Conditions as mentioned in paragraph (5)(b) may be imposed on the person
taking control of the company (as well as on the company), and may include—

27.35A.8.a

conditions relating to the arrangements for the change in control, including
the date by which it must occur,

27.35A.8.b

conditions relating to the performance of activities permitted by this
licence, and

27.35A.8.c

financial conditions.

27.35A.9

The OGA’s decision on the application, and any conditions as mentioned in
paragraph (5)(b), must be notified in writing to the interested parties.

27.35A.10

In this clause “ the interested parties ” means—

27.35A.10.a

the company,

27.35A.10.b

the person who (if consent were granted) would take control of the company,
and

27.35A.10.c

if the company and another person or persons are the Licensee, that other
person or those other persons.

27.35A.11

For the purposes of this clause, the question of whether a person has control
of a company is to be determined in accordance with the test set out in clause
35(3).

28

28.1

Clause 36 (power of revocation) is amended as follows.

28.2

In paragraph (2)—

28.2.a

after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

28.2.a.j

if the Licensee is a company, any breach of a condition subject to which the
Oil and Gas Authority gave its consent to a change in control of the Licensee
(see clause 35A);

28.2.a.k

if the Licensee is a company, any failure to provide full and accurate
information in response to a notice given by the Oil and Gas Authority to that
company under section 5D of the Act of 1998;

;

28.2.b

in the closing words, after “(g)” insert  “or (j) or (k)” .

28.3

Omit paragraphs (3) to (5).

29

29.1

Clause 36A (power of partial revocation) is amended as follows.

29.2

For paragraph (1) substitute—

29.2.1

This clause applies in a case where two or more persons are the Licensee and—

29.2.1.a

an event mentioned in clause 36(2)(c), (d), (e) or (g) occurs in relation to
one of those persons;

29.2.1.b

an event mentioned in clause 36(2)(b) occurs which consists of a breach of
clause 35A(2) or (4) in relation to a change in control of one of those
persons;

29.2.1.c

an event mentioned in clause 36(2)(j) occurs in relation to a change in
control of one of those persons (see clause 35A); or

29.2.1.d

an event mentioned in clause 36(2)(k) occurs which consists of a failure by
one of those persons as mentioned in that provision.

29.3

In paragraph (2), for “or (b)” substitute  “, (b), (c) or (d)” .

###### Part 2 of Schedule 9

30

Part 2 of Schedule 9 (current model clauses for seaward production licences
deriving from Schedule 4 to the 1988 Regulations as they had effect before 16
December 1996) is amended in accordance with paragraphs  31  to  33 .

31

After clause 41 insert—

########## Change in control of Licensee

31.41A

31.41A.1

This clause applies if—

31.41A.1.a

the Licensee is a company, or

31.41A.1.b

where two or more persons are the Licensee, any of those persons is a company,

and references in this clause to a company are to such a company.

31.41A.2

A change in control of a company is not permitted without the consent of the
Oil and Gas Authority (“the OGA”).

31.41A.3

There is a “change in control” of a company if a person takes control of the
company, not having previously been a person who controlled the company.

31.41A.4

If a change in control of a company is contemplated, the company must apply in
writing to the OGA for consent at least three months before the date on which
it is proposed that the change would occur (if consent were given).

31.41A.5

The OGA may—

31.41A.5.a

consent to the change in control unconditionally,

31.41A.5.b

consent to the change in control subject to conditions, or

31.41A.5.c

refuse consent to the change in control.

31.41A.6

If the OGA proposes to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse
consent, the OGA must, before making a final decision—

31.41A.6.a

give the company an opportunity to make representations, and

31.41A.6.b

consider any representations that are made.

31.41A.7

The general rule is that the OGA must decide an application within three
months of receiving it, but the OGA may delay its decision by notifying the
interested parties in writing.

31.41A.8

Conditions as mentioned in paragraph (5)(b) may be imposed on the person
taking control of the company (as well as on the company), and may include—

31.41A.8.a

conditions relating to the arrangements for the change in control, including
the date by which it must occur,

31.41A.8.b

conditions relating to the performance of activities permitted by this
licence, and

31.41A.8.c

financial conditions.

31.41A.9

The OGA’s decision on the application, and any conditions as mentioned in
paragraph (5)(b), must be notified in writing to the interested parties.

31.41A.10

In this clause “ the interested parties ” means—

31.41A.10.a

the company,

31.41A.10.b

the person who (if consent were granted) would take control of the company,
and

31.41A.10.c

if the company and another person or persons are the Licensee, that other
person or those other persons.

31.41A.11

For the purposes of this clause, the question of whether a person has control
of a company is to be determined in accordance with the test set out in clause
41(4).

32

32.1

Clause 42 (power of revocation) is amended as follows.

32.2

In paragraph (2)—

32.2.a

after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

32.2.a.j

if the Licensee is a company, any breach of a condition subject to which the
Oil and Gas Authority gave its consent to a change in control of the Licensee
(see clause 41A);

32.2.a.k

if the Licensee is a company, any failure to provide full and accurate
information in response to a notice given by the Oil and Gas Authority to that
company under section 5D of the Act of 1998;

;

32.2.b

in the closing words, after “(g)” insert  “or (j) or (k)” .

32.3

Omit paragraphs (3) to (5).

33

33.1

Clause 42A (power of partial revocation) is amended as follows.

33.2

For paragraph (1) substitute—

33.2.1

This clause applies in a case where two or more persons are the Licensee and—

33.2.1.a

an event mentioned in clause 42(2)(c), (d), (e) or (g) occurs in relation to
one of those persons;

33.2.1.b

an event mentioned in clause 42(2)(b) occurs which consists of a breach of
clause 41A(2) or (4) in relation to a change in control of one of those
persons;

33.2.1.c

an event mentioned in clause 42(2)(j) occurs in relation to a change in
control of one of those persons (see clause 41A); or

33.2.1.d

an event mentioned in clause 42(2)(k) occurs which consists of a failure by
one of those persons as mentioned in that provision.

33.3

In paragraph (2), for “or (b)” substitute  “, (b), (c) or (d)” .

###### Part 2 of Schedule 10

34

Part 2 of Schedule 10 (current model clauses for seaward production licences
deriving from Schedule 4 to the 1988 Regulations as they had effect on and
after 16 December 1996) is amended in accordance with paragraphs  35  to  37 .

35

After clause 41 insert—

########## Change in control of Licensee

35.41A

35.41A.1

This clause applies if—

35.41A.1.a

the Licensee is a company, or

35.41A.1.b

where two or more persons are the Licensee, any of those persons is a company,

and references in this clause to a company are to such a company.

35.41A.2

A change in control of a company is not permitted without the consent of the
Oil and Gas Authority (“the OGA”).

35.41A.3

There is a “change in control” of a company if a person takes control of the
company, not having previously been a person who controlled the company.

35.41A.4

If a change in control of a company is contemplated, the company must apply in
writing to the OGA for consent at least three months before the date on which
it is proposed that the change would occur (if consent were given).

35.41A.5

The OGA may—

35.41A.5.a

consent to the change in control unconditionally,

35.41A.5.b

consent to the change in control subject to conditions, or

35.41A.5.c

refuse consent to the change in control.

35.41A.6

If the OGA proposes to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse
consent, the OGA must, before making a final decision—

35.41A.6.a

give the company an opportunity to make representations, and

35.41A.6.b

consider any representations that are made.

35.41A.7

The general rule is that the OGA must decide an application within three
months of receiving it, but the OGA may delay its decision by notifying the
interested parties in writing.

35.41A.8

Conditions as mentioned in paragraph (5)(b) may be imposed on the person
taking control of the company (as well as on the company), and may include—

35.41A.8.a

conditions relating to the arrangements for the change in control, including
the date by which it must occur,

35.41A.8.b

conditions relating to the performance of activities permitted by this
licence, and

35.41A.8.c

financial conditions.

35.41A.9

The OGA’s decision on the application, and any conditions as mentioned in
paragraph (5)(b), must be notified in writing to the interested parties.

35.41A.10

In this clause “ the interested parties ” means—

35.41A.10.a

the company,

35.41A.10.b

the person who (if consent were granted) would take control of the company,
and

35.41A.10.c

if the company and another person or persons are the Licensee, that other
person or those other persons.

35.41A.11

For the purposes of this clause, the question of whether a person has control
of a company is to be determined in accordance with the test set out in clause
41(4).

36

36.1

Clause 42 (power of revocation) is amended as follows.

36.2

In paragraph (2)—

36.2.a

after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

36.2.a.j

if the Licensee is a company, any breach of a condition subject to which the
Oil and Gas Authority gave its consent to a change in control of the Licensee
(see clause 41A);

36.2.a.k

if the Licensee is a company, any failure to provide full and accurate
information in response to a notice given by the Oil and Gas Authority to that
company under section 5D of the Act of 1998;

;

36.2.b

in the closing words, after “(g)” insert  “or (j) or (k)” .

36.3

Omit paragraphs (3) to (5).

37

37.1

Clause 42A (power of partial revocation) is amended as follows.

37.2

For paragraph (1) substitute—

37.2.1

This clause applies in a case where two or more persons are the Licensee and—

37.2.1.a

an event mentioned in clause 42(2)(c), (d), (e) or (g) occurs in relation to
one of those persons;

37.2.1.b

an event mentioned in clause 42(2)(b) occurs which consists of a breach of
clause 41A(2) or (4) in relation to a change in control of one of those
persons;

37.2.1.c

an event mentioned in clause 42(2)(j) occurs in relation to a change in
control of one of those persons (see clause 41A); or

37.2.1.d

an event mentioned in clause 42(2)(k) occurs which consists of a failure by
one of those persons as mentioned in that provision.

37.3

In paragraph (2), for “or (b)” substitute  “, (b), (c) or (d)” .

###### Part 2 of Schedule 13

38

Part 2 of Schedule 13 (current model clauses for landward appraisal licences
deriving from Schedule 5 to the 1991 Regulations) is amended in accordance
with paragraphs  39  to  41 .

39

After clause 32 insert—

########## Change in control of Licensee

39.32A

39.32A.1

This clause applies if—

39.32A.1.a

the Licensee is a company, or

39.32A.1.b

where two or more persons are the Licensee, any of those persons is a company,

and references in this clause to a company are to such a company.

39.32A.2

A change in control of a company is not permitted without the consent of the
Oil and Gas Authority (“the OGA”).

39.32A.3

There is a “change in control” of a company if a person takes control of the
company, not having previously been a person who controlled the company.

39.32A.4

If a change in control of a company is contemplated, the company must apply in
writing to the OGA for consent at least three months before the date on which
it is proposed that the change would occur (if consent were given).

39.32A.5

The OGA may—

39.32A.5.a

consent to the change in control unconditionally,

39.32A.5.b

consent to the change in control subject to conditions, or

39.32A.5.c

refuse consent to the change in control.

39.32A.6

If the OGA proposes to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse
consent, the OGA must, before making a final decision—

39.32A.6.a

give the company an opportunity to make representations, and

39.32A.6.b

consider any representations that are made.

39.32A.7

The general rule is that the OGA must decide an application within three
months of receiving it, but the OGA may delay its decision by notifying the
interested parties in writing.

39.32A.8

Conditions as mentioned in paragraph (5)(b) may be imposed on the person
taking control of the company (as well as on the company), and may include—

39.32A.8.a

conditions relating to the arrangements for the change in control, including
the date by which it must occur,

39.32A.8.b

conditions relating to the performance of activities permitted by this
licence, and

39.32A.8.c

financial conditions.

39.32A.9

The OGA’s decision on the application, and any conditions as mentioned in
paragraph (5)(b), must be notified in writing to the interested parties.

39.32A.10

In this clause “ the interested parties ” means—

39.32A.10.a

the company,

39.32A.10.b

the person who (if consent were granted) would take control of the company,
and

39.32A.10.c

if the company and another person or persons are the Licensee, that other
person or those other persons.

39.32A.11

For the purposes of this clause, the question of whether a person has control
of a company is to be determined in accordance with the test set out in clause
32(3).

40

40.1

Clause 33 (power of revocation) is amended as follows.

40.2

In paragraph (2)—

40.2.a

after sub-paragraph (h) insert—

40.2.a.i

if the Licensee is a company, any breach of a condition subject to which the
Oil and Gas Authority gave its consent to a change in control of the Licensee
(see clause 32A);

40.2.a.j

if the Licensee is a company, any failure to provide full and accurate
information in response to a notice given by the Oil and Gas Authority to that
company under section 5D of the Petroleum Act 1998;

;

40.2.b

in the closing words, after “(f)” insert  “or (i) or (j)” .

40.3

Omit paragraphs (3) to (5).

41

41.1

Clause 33A (power of partial revocation) is amended as follows.

41.2

For paragraph (1) substitute—

41.2.1

This clause applies in a case where two or more persons are the Licensee and—

41.2.1.a

an event mentioned in clause 33(2)(c), (d), (e) or (f) occurs in relation to
one of those persons;

41.2.1.b

an event mentioned in clause 33(2)(b) occurs which consists of a breach of
clause 32A(2) or (4) in relation to a change in control of one of those
persons;

41.2.1.c

an event mentioned in clause 33(2)(i) occurs in relation to a change in
control of one of those persons (see clause 32A); or

41.2.1.d

an event mentioned in clause 33(2)(j) occurs which consists of a failure by
one of those persons as mentioned in that provision.

41.3

In paragraph (2), for “or (b)” substitute  “, (b), (c) or (d)” .

###### Part 2 of Schedule 14

42

Part 2 of Schedule 14 (current model clauses for landward development licences
deriving from Schedule 6 to the 1991 Regulations) is amended in accordance
with paragraphs  43  to  45 .

43

After clause 34 insert—

########## Change in control of Licensee

43.34A

43.34A.1

This clause applies if—

43.34A.1.a

the Licensee is a company, or

43.34A.1.b

where two or more persons are the Licensee, any of those persons is a company,

and references in this clause to a company are to such a company.

43.34A.2

A change in control of a company is not permitted without the consent of the
Oil and Gas Authority (“the OGA”).

43.34A.3

There is a “change in control” of a company if a person takes control of the
company, not having previously been a person who controlled the company.

43.34A.4

If a change in control of a company is contemplated, the company must apply in
writing to the OGA for consent at least three months before the date on which
it is proposed that the change would occur (if consent were given).

43.34A.5

The OGA may—

43.34A.5.a

consent to the change in control unconditionally,

43.34A.5.b

consent to the change in control subject to conditions, or

43.34A.5.c

refuse consent to the change in control.

43.34A.6

If the OGA proposes to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse
consent, the OGA must, before making a final decision—

43.34A.6.a

give the company an opportunity to make representations, and

43.34A.6.b

consider any representations that are made.

43.34A.7

The general rule is that the OGA must decide an application within three
months of receiving it, but the OGA may delay its decision by notifying the
interested parties in writing.

43.34A.8

Conditions as mentioned in paragraph (5)(b) may be imposed on the person
taking control of the company (as well as on the company), and may include—

43.34A.8.a

conditions relating to the arrangements for the change in control, including
the date by which it must occur,

43.34A.8.b

conditions relating to the performance of activities permitted by this
licence, and

43.34A.8.c

financial conditions.

43.34A.9

The OGA’s decision on the application, and any conditions as mentioned in
paragraph (5)(b), must be notified in writing to the interested parties.

43.34A.10

In this clause “ the interested parties ” means—

43.34A.10.a

the company,

43.34A.10.b

the person who (if consent were granted) would take control of the company,
and

43.34A.10.c

if the company and another person or persons are the Licensee, that other
person or those other persons.

43.34A.11

For the purposes of this clause, the question of whether a person has control
of a company is to be determined in accordance with the test set out in clause
34(3).

44

44.1

Clause 35 (power of revocation) is amended as follows.

44.2

In paragraph (2)—

44.2.a

after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

44.2.a.j

if the Licensee is a company, any breach of a condition subject to which the
Oil and Gas Authority gave its consent to a change in control of the Licensee
(see clause 34A);

44.2.a.k

if the Licensee is a company, any failure to provide full and accurate
information in response to a notice given by the Oil and Gas Authority to that
company under section 5D of the Act of 1998;

;

44.2.b

in the closing words, after “(g)” insert  “or (j) or (k)” .

44.3

Omit paragraphs (3) to (5).

45

45.1

Clause 35A (power of partial revocation) is amended as follows.

45.2

For paragraph (1) substitute—

45.2.1

This clause applies in a case where two or more persons are the Licensee and—

45.2.1.a

an event mentioned in clause 35(2)(c), (d), (e) or (g) occurs in relation to
one of those persons;

45.2.1.b

an event mentioned in clause 35(2)(b) occurs which consists of a breach of
clause 34A(2) or (4) in relation to a change in control of one of those
persons;

45.2.1.c

an event mentioned in clause 35(2)(j) occurs in relation to a change in
control of one of those persons (see clause 34A); or

45.2.1.d

an event mentioned in clause 35(2)(k) occurs which consists of a failure by
one of those persons as mentioned in that provision.

45.3

In paragraph (2), for “or (b)” substitute  “, (b), (c) or (d)” .

##### Petroleum Licensing (Exploration and Production) (Seaward and Landward Areas) Regulations 2004

###### Introduction

46

The Petroleum Licensing (Exploration and Production) (Seaward and Landward
Areas) Regulations 2004 ( S.I. 2004/352 ) are amended in accordance with this
Part of this Schedule.

###### Schedule 2

47

Schedule 2 (model clauses for production licences relating to frontier areas —
no break clause) is amended in accordance with paragraphs  48  to  50 .

48

After clause 37 insert—

########## Change in control of Licensee

48.37A

48.37A.1

This clause applies if—

48.37A.1.a

the Licensee is a company, or

48.37A.1.b

where two or more persons are the Licensee, any of those persons is a company,

and references in this clause to a company are to such a company.

48.37A.2

A change in control of a company is not permitted without the consent of the
Oil and Gas Authority (“the OGA”).

48.37A.3

There is a “change in control” of a company if a person takes control of the
company, not having previously been a person who controlled the company.

48.37A.4

If a change in control of a company is contemplated, the company must apply in
writing to the OGA for consent at least three months before the date on which
it is proposed that the change would occur (if consent were given).

48.37A.5

The OGA may—

48.37A.5.a

consent to the change in control unconditionally,

48.37A.5.b

consent to the change in control subject to conditions, or

48.37A.5.c

refuse consent to the change in control.

48.37A.6

If the OGA proposes to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse
consent, the OGA must, before making a final decision—

48.37A.6.a

give the company an opportunity to make representations, and

48.37A.6.b

consider any representations that are made.

48.37A.7

The general rule is that the OGA must decide an application within three
months of receiving it, but the OGA may delay its decision by notifying the
interested parties in writing.

48.37A.8

Conditions as mentioned in paragraph (5)(b) may be imposed on the person
taking control of the company (as well as on the company), and may include—

48.37A.8.a

conditions relating to the arrangements for the change in control, including
the date by which it must occur,

48.37A.8.b

conditions relating to the performance of activities permitted by this
licence, and

48.37A.8.c

financial conditions.

48.37A.9

The OGA’s decision on the application, and any conditions as mentioned in
paragraph (5)(b), must be notified in writing to the interested parties.

48.37A.10

In this clause “ the interested parties ” means—

48.37A.10.a

the company,

48.37A.10.b

the person who (if consent were granted) would take control of the company,
and

48.37A.10.c

if the company and another person or persons are the Licensee, that other
person or those other persons.

48.37A.11

For the purposes of this clause, the question of whether a person has control
of a company is to be determined in accordance with the test set out in clause
37(4).

49

49.1

Clause 38 (power of revocation) is amended as follows.

49.2

In paragraph (2)—

49.2.a

after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

49.2.a.j

if the Licensee is a company, any breach of a condition subject to which the
Oil and Gas Authority gave its consent to a change in control of the Licensee
(see clause 37A);

49.2.a.k

if the Licensee is a company, any failure to provide full and accurate
information in response to a notice given by the Oil and Gas Authority to that
company under section 5D of the Act;

;

49.2.b

in the closing words, after “(g)” insert  “or (j) or (k)” .

49.3

Omit paragraphs (3) to (5).

50

50.1

Clause 38A (power of partial revocation) is amended as follows.

50.2

For paragraph (1) substitute—

50.2.1

This clause applies in a case where two or more persons are the Licensee and—

50.2.1.a

an event mentioned in clause 38(2)(c), (d), (e), (ee) or (g) occurs in
relation to one of those persons;

50.2.1.b

an event mentioned in clause 38(2)(b) occurs which consists of a breach of
clause 37A(2) or (4) in relation to a change in control of one of those
persons;

50.2.1.c

an event mentioned in clause 38(2)(j) occurs in relation to a change in
control of one of those persons (see clause 37A); or

50.2.1.d

an event mentioned in clause 38(2)(k) occurs which consists of a failure by
one of those persons as mentioned in that provision.

50.3

In paragraph (2), for “or (b)” substitute  “, (b), (c) or (d)” .

###### Schedule 3

51

Schedule 3 (model clauses for production licences relating to frontier areas —
including break clause) is amended in accordance with paragraphs  52  to  54 .

52

After clause 38 insert—

########## Change in control of Licensee

52.38A

52.38A.1

This clause applies if—

52.38A.1.a

the Licensee is a company, or

52.38A.1.b

where two or more persons are the Licensee, any of those persons is a company,

and references in this clause to a company are to such a company.

52.38A.2

A change in control of a company is not permitted without the consent of the
Oil and Gas Authority (“the OGA”).

52.38A.3

There is a “change in control” of a company if a person takes control of the
company, not having previously been a person who controlled the company.

52.38A.4

If a change in control of a company is contemplated, the company must apply in
writing to the OGA for consent at least three months before the date on which
it is proposed that the change would occur (if consent were given).

52.38A.5

The OGA may—

52.38A.5.a

consent to the change in control unconditionally,

52.38A.5.b

consent to the change in control subject to conditions, or

52.38A.5.c

refuse consent to the change in control.

52.38A.6

If the OGA proposes to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse
consent, the OGA must, before making a final decision—

52.38A.6.a

give the company an opportunity to make representations, and

52.38A.6.b

consider any representations that are made.

52.38A.7

The general rule is that the OGA must decide an application within three
months of receiving it, but the OGA may delay its decision by notifying the
interested parties in writing.

52.38A.8

Conditions as mentioned in paragraph (5)(b) may be imposed on the person
taking control of the company (as well as on the company), and may include—

52.38A.8.a

conditions relating to the arrangements for the change in control, including
the date by which it must occur,

52.38A.8.b

conditions relating to the performance of activities permitted by this
licence, and

52.38A.8.c

financial conditions.

52.38A.9

The OGA’s decision on the application, and any conditions as mentioned in
paragraph (5)(b), must be notified in writing to the interested parties.

52.38A.10

In this clause “ the interested parties ” means—

52.38A.10.a

the company,

52.38A.10.b

the person who (if consent were granted) would take control of the company,
and

52.38A.10.c

if the company and another person or persons are the Licensee, that other
person or those other persons.

52.38A.11

For the purposes of this clause, the question of whether a person has control
of a company is to be determined in accordance with the test set out in clause
38(4).

53

53.1

Clause 39 (power of revocation) is amended as follows.

53.2

In paragraph (2)—

53.2.a

after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

53.2.a.j

if the Licensee is a company, any breach of a condition subject to which the
Oil and Gas Authority gave its consent to a change in control of the Licensee
(see clause 38A);

53.2.a.k

if the Licensee is a company, any failure to provide full and accurate
information in response to a notice given by the Oil and Gas Authority to that
company under section 5D of the Act;

;

53.2.b

in the closing words, after “(g)” insert  “or (j) or (k)” .

53.3

Omit paragraphs (3) to (5).

54

54.1

Clause 39A (power of partial revocation) is amended as follows.

54.2

For paragraph (1) substitute—

54.2.1

This clause applies in a case where two or more persons are the Licensee and—

54.2.1.a

an event mentioned in clause 39(2)(c), (d), (e), (ee) or (g) occurs in
relation to one of those persons;

54.2.1.b

an event mentioned in clause 39(2)(b) occurs which consists of a breach of
clause 38A(2) or (4) in relation to a change in control of one of those
persons;

54.2.1.c

an event mentioned in clause 39(2)(j) occurs in relation to a change in
control of one of those persons (see clause 38A); or

54.2.1.d

an event mentioned in clause 39(2)(k) occurs which consists of a failure by
one of those persons as mentioned in that provision.

54.3

In paragraph (2), for “or (b)” substitute  “, (b), (c) or (d)” .

###### Schedule 4

55

Schedule 4 (model clauses for standard production licences) is amended in
accordance with paragraphs  56  to  58 .

56

After clause 36 insert—

########## Change in control of Licensee

56.36A

56.36A.1

This clause applies if—

56.36A.1.a

the Licensee is a company, or

56.36A.1.b

where two or more persons are the Licensee, any of those persons is a company,

and references in this clause to a company are to such a company.

56.36A.2

A change in control of a company is not permitted without the consent of the
Oil and Gas Authority (“the OGA”).

56.36A.3

There is a “change in control” of a company if a person takes control of the
company, not having previously been a person who controlled the company.

56.36A.4

If a change in control of a company is contemplated, the company must apply in
writing to the OGA for consent at least three months before the date on which
it is proposed that the change would occur (if consent were given).

56.36A.5

The OGA may—

56.36A.5.a

consent to the change in control unconditionally,

56.36A.5.b

consent to the change in control subject to conditions, or

56.36A.5.c

refuse consent to the change in control.

56.36A.6

If the OGA proposes to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse
consent, the OGA must, before making a final decision—

56.36A.6.a

give the company an opportunity to make representations, and

56.36A.6.b

consider any representations that are made.

56.36A.7

The general rule is that the OGA must decide an application within three
months of receiving it, but the OGA may delay its decision by notifying the
interested parties in writing.

56.36A.8

Conditions as mentioned in paragraph (5)(b) may be imposed on the person
taking control of the company (as well as on the company), and may include—

56.36A.8.a

conditions relating to the arrangements for the change in control, including
the date by which it must occur,

56.36A.8.b

conditions relating to the performance of activities permitted by this
licence, and

56.36A.8.c

financial conditions.

56.36A.9

The OGA’s decision on the application, and any conditions as mentioned in
paragraph (5)(b), must be notified in writing to the interested parties.

56.36A.10

In this clause “ the interested parties ” means—

56.36A.10.a

the company,

56.36A.10.b

the person who (if consent were granted) would take control of the company,
and

56.36A.10.c

if the company and another person or persons are the Licensee, that other
person or those other persons.

56.36A.11

For the purposes of this clause, the question of whether a person has control
of a company is to be determined in accordance with the test set out in clause
36(4).

57

57.1

Clause 37 (power of revocation) is amended as follows.

57.2

In paragraph (2)—

57.2.a

after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

57.2.a.j

if the Licensee is a company, any breach of a condition subject to which the
Oil and Gas Authority gave its consent to a change in control of the Licensee
(see clause 36A);

57.2.a.k

if the Licensee is a company, any failure to provide full and accurate
information in response to a notice given by the Oil and Gas Authority to that
company under section 5D of the Act;

;

57.2.b

in the closing words, after “(g)” insert  “or (j) or (k)” .

57.3

Omit paragraphs (3) to (5).

58

58.1

Clause 37A (power of partial revocation) is amended as follows.

58.2

For paragraph (1) substitute—

58.2.1

This clause applies in a case where two or more persons are the Licensee and—

58.2.1.a

an event mentioned in clause 37(2)(c), (d), (e), (ee) or (g) occurs in
relation to one of those persons;

58.2.1.b

an event mentioned in clause 37(2)(b) occurs which consists of a breach of
clause 36A(2) or (4) in relation to a change in control of one of those
persons;

58.2.1.c

an event mentioned in clause 37(2)(j) occurs in relation to a change in
control of one of those persons (see clause 36A); or

58.2.1.d

an event mentioned in clause 37(2)(k) occurs which consists of a failure by
one of those persons as mentioned in that provision.

58.3

In paragraph (2), for “or (b)” substitute  “, (b), (c) or (d)” .

###### Schedule 6

59

Schedule 6 (model clauses for petroleum exploration and development licences)
is amended in accordance with paragraphs  60  to  62 .

60

After clause 35 insert—

########## Change in control of Licensee

60.35A

60.35A.1

This clause applies if—

60.35A.1.a

the Licensee is a company, or

60.35A.1.b

where two or more persons are the Licensee, any of those persons is a company,

and references in this clause to a company are to such a company.

60.35A.2

A change in control of a company is not permitted without the consent of the
Oil and Gas Authority (“the OGA”).

60.35A.3

There is a “change in control” of a company if a person takes control of the
company, not having previously been a person who controlled the company.

60.35A.4

If a change in control of a company is contemplated, the company must apply in
writing to the OGA for consent at least three months before the date on which
it is proposed that the change would occur (if consent were given).

60.35A.5

The OGA may—

60.35A.5.a

consent to the change in control unconditionally,

60.35A.5.b

consent to the change in control subject to conditions, or

60.35A.5.c

refuse consent to the change in control.

60.35A.6

If the OGA proposes to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse
consent, the OGA must, before making a final decision—

60.35A.6.a

give the company an opportunity to make representations, and

60.35A.6.b

consider any representations that are made.

60.35A.7

The general rule is that the OGA must decide an application within three
months of receiving it, but the OGA may delay its decision by notifying the
interested parties in writing.

60.35A.8

Conditions as mentioned in paragraph (5)(b) may be imposed on the person
taking control of the company (as well as on the company), and may include—

60.35A.8.a

conditions relating to the arrangements for the change in control, including
the date by which it must occur,

60.35A.8.b

conditions relating to the performance of activities permitted by this
licence, and

60.35A.8.c

financial conditions.

60.35A.9

The OGA’s decision on the application, and any conditions as mentioned in
paragraph (5)(b), must be notified in writing to the interested parties.

60.35A.10

In this clause “ the interested parties ” means—

60.35A.10.a

the company,

60.35A.10.b

the person who (if consent were granted) would take control of the company,
and

60.35A.10.c

if the company and another person or persons are the Licensee, that other
person or those other persons.

60.35A.11

For the purposes of this clause, the question of whether a person has control
of a company is to be determined in accordance with the test set out in clause
35(4).

61

61.1

Clause 36 (power of revocation) is amended as follows.

61.2

In paragraph (2)—

61.2.a

after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

61.2.a.j

if the Licensee is a company, any breach of a condition subject to which the
Oil and Gas Authority gave its consent to a change in control of the Licensee
(see clause 35A);

61.2.a.k

if the Licensee is a company, any failure to provide full and accurate
information in response to a notice given by the Oil and Gas Authority to that
company under section 5D of the Act;

;

61.2.b

in the closing words, after “(g)” insert  “or (j) or (k)” .

61.3

Omit paragraphs (3) to (5).

62

62.1

Clause 36A (power of partial revocation) is amended as follows.

62.2

For paragraph (1) substitute—

62.2.1

This clause applies in a case where two or more persons are the Licensee and—

62.2.1.a

an event mentioned in clause 36(2)(c), (d), (e), (ee) or (g) occurs in
relation to one of those persons;

62.2.1.b

an event mentioned in clause 36(2)(b) occurs which consists of a breach of
clause 35A(2) or (4) in relation to a change in control of one of those
persons;

62.2.1.c

an event mentioned in clause 36(2)(j) occurs in relation to a change in
control of one of those persons (see clause 35A); or

62.2.1.d

an event mentioned in clause 36(2)(k) occurs which consists of a failure by
one of those persons as mentioned in that provision.

62.3

In paragraph (2), for “or (b)” substitute  “, (b), (c) or (d)” .

##### Petroleum Licensing (Production) (Seaward Areas) Regulations 2008

63

In the Petroleum Licensing (Production) (Seaward Areas) Regulations 2008 (
S.I. 2008/225 ), the Schedule (model clauses for seaward area production
licences) is amended as follows.

64

After clause 40 insert—

######### Change in control of Licensee

64.40A

64.40A.1

This clause applies if—

64.40A.1.a

the Licensee is a company, or

64.40A.1.b

where two or more persons are the Licensee, any of those persons is a company,

and references in this clause to a company are to such a company.

64.40A.2

A change in control of a company is not permitted without the consent of the
OGA.

64.40A.3

There is a “change in control” of a company if a person takes control of the
company, not having previously been a person who controlled the company.

64.40A.4

If a change in control of a company is contemplated, the company must apply in
writing to the OGA for consent at least three months before the date on which
it is proposed that the change would occur (if consent were given).

64.40A.5

The OGA may—

64.40A.5.a

consent to the change in control unconditionally,

64.40A.5.b

consent to the change in control subject to conditions, or

64.40A.5.c

refuse consent to the change in control.

64.40A.6

If the OGA proposes to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse
consent, the OGA must, before making a final decision—

64.40A.6.a

give the company an opportunity to make representations, and

64.40A.6.b

consider any representations that are made.

64.40A.7

The general rule is that the OGA must decide an application within three
months of receiving it, but the OGA may delay its decision by notifying the
interested parties in writing.

64.40A.8

Conditions as mentioned in paragraph (5)(b) may be imposed on the person
taking control of the company (as well as on the company), and may include—

64.40A.8.a

conditions relating to the arrangements for the change in control, including
the date by which it must occur,

64.40A.8.b

conditions relating to the performance of activities permitted by this
licence, and

64.40A.8.c

financial conditions.

64.40A.9

The OGA’s decision on the application, and any conditions as mentioned in
paragraph (5)(b), must be notified in writing to the interested parties.

64.40A.10

In this clause “ the interested parties ” means—

64.40A.10.a

the company,

64.40A.10.b

the person who (if consent were granted) would take control of the company,
and

64.40A.10.c

if the company and another person or persons are the Licensee, that other
person or those other persons.

64.40A.11

For the purposes of this clause, “control” of a company is to be construed in
accordance with sections 450(2) to (4) and 451(1) to (5) of the Corporation
Tax Act 2010, modified as specified in clause 40(4).

65

65.1

Clause 41 (power of revocation) is amended as follows.

65.2

In paragraph (2)—

65.2.a

after sub-paragraph (j) insert—

65.2.a.k

if the Licensee is a company, any breach of a condition subject to which the
OGA gave its consent to a change in control of the Licensee (see clause 40A),

65.2.a.l

if the Licensee is a company, any failure to provide full and accurate
information in response to a notice given by the OGA to that company under
section 5D of the Act,

;

65.2.b

in the closing words, after “(h)” insert  “or (k) or (l)” .

65.3

Omit paragraphs (3) to (5).

66

66.1

Clause 42 (power of partial revocation) is amended as follows.

66.2

For paragraph (1) substitute—

66.2.1

This clause applies in a case where two or more persons are the Licensee and—

66.2.1.a

an event mentioned in clause 41(2)(c), (d), (e), (f) or (h) occurs in relation
to one of those persons;

66.2.1.b

an event mentioned in clause 41(2)(b) occurs which consists of a breach of
clause 40A(2) or (4) in relation to a change in control of one of those
persons;

66.2.1.c

an event mentioned in clause 41(2)(k) occurs in relation to a change in
control of one of those persons (see clause 40A); or

66.2.1.d

an event mentioned in clause 41(2)(l) occurs which consists of a failure by
one of those persons as mentioned in that provision.

66.3

In paragraph (2), for “or (b)” substitute  “, (b), (c) or (d)” .

##### Petroleum Licensing (Exploration and Production) (Landward Areas) Regulations 2014

67

In the Petroleum Licensing (Exploration and Production) (Landward Areas)
Regulations 2014 ( S.I. 2014/1686 ), Schedule 2 (model clauses for petroleum
exploration and development licences) is amended as follows.

68

After clause 40 insert—

######### Change in control of Licensee

68.40A

68.40A.1

This clause applies if—

68.40A.1.a

the Licensee is a company, or

68.40A.1.b

where two or more persons are the Licensee, any of those persons is a company,

and references in this clause to a company are to such a company.

68.40A.2

A change in control of a company is not permitted without the consent of the
OGA.

68.40A.3

There is a “change in control” of a company if a person takes control of the
company, not having previously been a person who controlled the company.

68.40A.4

If a change in control of a company is contemplated, the company must apply in
writing to the OGA for consent at least three months before the date on which
it is proposed that the change would occur (if consent were given).

68.40A.5

The OGA may—

68.40A.5.a

consent to the change in control unconditionally,

68.40A.5.b

consent to the change in control subject to conditions, or

68.40A.5.c

refuse consent to the change in control.

68.40A.6

If the OGA proposes to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse
consent, the OGA must, before making a final decision—

68.40A.6.a

give the company an opportunity to make representations, and

68.40A.6.b

consider any representations that are made.

68.40A.7

The general rule is that the OGA must decide an application within three
months of receiving it, but the OGA may delay its decision by notifying the
interested parties in writing.

68.40A.8

Conditions as mentioned in paragraph (5)(b) may be imposed on the person
taking control of the company (as well as on the company), and may include—

68.40A.8.a

conditions relating to the arrangements for the change in control, including
the date by which it must occur,

68.40A.8.b

conditions relating to the performance of activities permitted by this
licence, and

68.40A.8.c

financial conditions.

68.40A.9

The OGA’s decision on the application, and any conditions as mentioned in
paragraph (5)(b), must be notified in writing to the interested parties.

68.40A.10

In this clause “ the interested parties ” means—

68.40A.10.a

the company,

68.40A.10.b

the person who (if consent were granted) would take control of the company,
and

68.40A.10.c

if the company and another person or persons are the Licensee, that other
person or those other persons.

68.40A.11

For the purposes of this clause, “control” of a company is to be construed in
accordance with sections 450(2) to (4) and 451(1) to (5) of the Corporation
Tax Act 2010, modified as specified in clause 40(4).

69

69.1

Clause 41 (power of revocation) is amended as follows.

69.2

In paragraph (2)—

69.2.a

after sub-paragraph (j) insert—

69.2.a.k

if the Licensee is a company, any breach of a condition subject to which the
OGA gave its consent to a change in control of the Licensee (see clause 40A),

69.2.a.l

if the Licensee is a company, any failure to provide full and accurate
information in response to a notice given by the OGA to that company under
section 5D of the Act,

;

69.2.b

in the closing words, after “(h)” insert  “or (k) or (l)” .

69.3

Omit paragraphs (3) to (5).

70

70.1

Clause 42 (power of partial revocation) is amended as follows.

70.2

For paragraph (1) substitute—

70.2.1

This clause applies in a case where two or more persons are the Licensee and—

70.2.1.a

an event mentioned in clause 41(2)(c), (d), (e), (f) or (h) occurs in relation
to one of those persons;

70.2.1.b

an event mentioned in clause 41(2)(b) occurs which consists of a breach of
clause 40A(2) or (4) in relation to a change in control of one of those
persons;

70.2.1.c

an event mentioned in clause 41(2)(k) occurs in relation to a change in
control of one of those persons (see clause 40A); or

70.2.1.d

an event mentioned in clause 41(2)(l) occurs which consists of a failure by
one of those persons as mentioned in that provision.

70.3

In paragraph (2), for “or (b)” substitute  “, (b), (c) or (d)” .

  Accession to Convention on Supplementary Compensation for Nuclear Damage

Section 305

1

In section 13 of the Nuclear Installations Act 1965 (“ the 1965 Act ”)
(exclusion, extension or reduction of compensation in certain cases), in
subsection (5A), after “(1ZA),” insert  “(1ZAA),” .

2

2.1

Section 16 of the 1965 Act (satisfaction of claims) is amended as follows.

2.2

In subsection (1ZA) after “or 9” insert  “, other than CSC-only claims,” .

2.3

After subsection (1ZA) insert—

2.3.1ZAA

Notwithstanding subsection (1), if the amount payable by a person in respect
of CSC-only claims for compensation under this Act in respect of any one
occurrence or event constituting a breach of a duty imposed on that person by
section 7, 7B, 8 or 9 reaches, in the aggregate and apart from interest or
costs, the equivalent in sterling of 300 million special drawing rights, that
person is not required to satisfy further claims for compensation.

2.4

In subsection (1A) for “or (3B)” substitute  “, (1ZAA), (3B), (3BA), (3BB),
(3BC) or (3BD)” .

2.5

In subsection (3)(a) after “subsection (1)” insert  “, (1ZA), (1ZAA), (1ZB)”
. 

2.6

In subsection (3B)—

2.6.a

after “or 10” insert  “, other than CSC-only claims (“non-CSC-only claims”),”
,  

2.6.b

after “further” insert  “non-CSC-only” , and

2.6.c

after “special relevant claims” insert  “or CSC claims (or both)” .

2.7

After subsection (3B) insert—

2.7.3BA

To the extent that further non-CSC-only claims for compensation are special
relevant claims, the appropriate authority may be required to satisfy them up
to the equivalent in sterling of 1,500 million euros (in the aggregate and
apart from interest or costs). 

2.7.3BB

To the extent that further non-CSC-only claims for compensation are CSC
claims, the appropriate authority may be required to satisfy them up to the
equivalent in sterling of the aggregate of 700 million euros and the value of
the CSC international pooled funds (in the aggregate and apart from interest
or costs).

2.7.3BC

To the extent that further non-CSC-only claims for compensation are both
special relevant claims and CSC claims, the appropriate authority may be
required to satisfy them up to the equivalent in sterling of the aggregate of
1,500 million euros and the value of the CSC international pooled funds (in
the aggregate and apart from interest or costs).

2.7.3BD

If the amount payable in respect of CSC-only claims in respect of any one
occurrence or event constituting a breach of a duty imposed on a person by
section 7, 7B, 8, 9 or 10 reaches, in the aggregate and apart from interest or
costs, the equivalent in sterling of the aggregate of 300 million special
drawing rights and the value of the CSC international pooled funds, the
appropriate authority is not required to satisfy further such claims for
compensation.

2.7.3BE

If the CSC international pooled funds are (or will be) reduced by virtue of
claims to which subsection (3) applies by 50%, the appropriate authority is
not required to satisfy further claims for compensation if that would give
rise to a further reduction of those funds except to the extent that those
further claims are non-UK CSC claims.

2.8

In subsection (3C)(a) after “subsection (3B)” insert  “or, in a case where the
relevant reciprocating territory is also a CSC territory (as defined by
section 16AA), (3BB)” .

2.9

In subsection (3D)—

2.9.a

in paragraph (b)(i) and (ii) after “subsection (1ZA)” insert  “, (1ZAA),” ,
and

2.9.b

in paragraph (b)(iii) after “subsection (3B)” insert  “, (3BA), (3BB), (3BC),
(3BD), (3BE)” .

3

In section 16A of the 1965 Act (section 16: supplementary), in subsection
(7)(b) for “section 18(1A)” substitute  “section 16(3BA)” .  

4

After section 16A of the 1965 Act insert—

######## Section 16: CSC-related definitions

4.16AA

4.16AA.1

This section applies for the purposes of section 16.

4.16AA.2

A claim for compensation under this Act in the case of a breach of a duty
imposed by section 7, 7B, 8, 9 or 10 is a CSC claim if—

4.16AA.2.a

the injury or damage for which compensation is claimed is such injury or
damage as is mentioned in subsection  (3) ,

4.16AA.2.b

the significant impairment of the environment by reference to which
compensation is claimed by virtue of section 11A(1) or 11G(1) or paragraph 1
of Schedule 1A is such significant impairment of the environment as is
mentioned in subsection  (3) , or

4.16AA.2.c

the preventive measures by reference to which compensation is claimed by
virtue of section 11H(1) or (2) are preventive measures relating to such
injury, damage or significant impairment of the environment as is mentioned in
subsection  (3) .

4.16AA.3

The injury, damage and significant impairment of the environment referred to
in subsection  (2)  are—

4.16AA.3.a

injury, damage or significant impairment of the environment that is incurred
within the territorial limits of the United Kingdom or another CSC territory;

4.16AA.3.b

injury, damage or significant impairment of the environment that is incurred
in or above the exclusive economic zone or on the continental shelf of the
United Kingdom or another CSC territory in connection with the exploitation or
exploration of the natural resources of that exclusive economic zone or
continental shelf;

4.16AA.3.c

injury or damage that is incurred in or above the sea outside the territorial
limits of any country or territory by, or by persons or property on, a ship or
aircraft registered in the United Kingdom or another CSC territory;

4.16AA.3.d

injury or damage that is incurred in or above the sea outside the territorial
limits of any country or territory by a national of the United Kingdom or
another CSC territory;

4.16AA.3.e

injury or damage that is incurred outside the territorial limits of any
country or territory by, or by persons or property on, an artificial island,
installation or structure that is subject to the jurisdiction of the United
Kingdom or another CSC territory.

4.16AA.4

A CSC claim is a CSC-only claim if—

4.16AA.4.a

the injury or damage for which compensation is claimed is such injury or
damage as is mentioned in subsection  (5) ,

4.16AA.4.b

the significant impairment of the environment by reference to which
compensation is claimed by virtue of section 11A(1) or 11G(1) or paragraph 1
of Schedule 1A is such significant impairment of the environment as is
mentioned in subsection  (5) , or

4.16AA.4.c

the preventive measures by reference to which compensation is claimed by
virtue of section 11H(1) or (2) are preventive measures relating to such
injury, damage or significant impairment of the environment as is mentioned in
subsection  (5) .

4.16AA.5

The injury, damage and significant impairment of the environment referred to
in subsection  (4)  are—

4.16AA.5.a

injury, damage or significant impairment of the environment that is incurred
within the territorial limits of a CSC-only territory;

4.16AA.5.b

injury, damage or significant impairment of the environment that is incurred
in or above the exclusive economic zone or on the continental shelf of a CSC-
only territory in connection with the exploitation or exploration of the
natural resources of that exclusive economic zone or continental shelf;

4.16AA.5.c

injury or damage that is incurred in or above the sea outside the territorial
limits of any country or territory by, or by persons or property on, a ship or
aircraft registered in a CSC-only territory;

4.16AA.5.d

injury or damage that is incurred in or above the sea outside the territorial
limits of any country or territory by a national of a CSC-only territory;

4.16AA.5.e

injury or damage that is incurred outside the territorial limits of any
country or territory by, or by persons or property on, an artificial island,
installation or structure that is subject to the jurisdiction of a CSC-only
territory.

4.16AA.6

A CSC-only territory is a CSC territory that is not—

4.16AA.6.a

the United Kingdom,

4.16AA.6.b

any other CSC territory that is a relevant territory in relation to a relevant
international agreement other than the CSC,

4.16AA.6.c

a country mentioned in section 26(1B)(b),

4.16AA.6.d

an overseas territory mentioned in section 26(1B)(c) or (d), or

4.16AA.6.e

a relevant reciprocating territory.

4.16AA.7

A CSC claim is a non-UK CSC claim if—

4.16AA.7.a

the injury or damage for which compensation is claimed is such injury or
damage as is mentioned in subsection  (8) ,

4.16AA.7.b

the significant impairment of the environment by reference to which
compensation is claimed by virtue of section 11A(1) or 11G(1) or paragraph 1
of Schedule 1A is such significant impairment of the environment as is
mentioned in subsection  (8) , or

4.16AA.7.c

the preventive measures by reference to which compensation is claimed by
virtue of section 11H(1) or (2) are preventive measures relating to such
injury, damage or significant impairment of the environment as is mentioned in
subsection  (8) .

4.16AA.8

The injury, damage and significant impairment of the environment referred to
in subsection  (7)  are—

4.16AA.8.a

injury, damage or significant impairment of the environment that is incurred
within the territorial limits of a CSC territory other than the United
Kingdom;

4.16AA.8.b

injury, damage or significant impairment of the environment that is incurred
in or above the exclusive economic zone or on the continental shelf of a CSC
territory other than the United Kingdom in connection with the exploitation or
exploration of the natural resources of that exclusive economic zone or
continental shelf;

4.16AA.8.c

injury or damage that is incurred in or above the sea outside the territorial
limits of any country or territory by, or by persons or property on, a ship or
aircraft registered in the United Kingdom or another CSC territory;

4.16AA.8.d

injury or damage that is incurred in or above the sea outside the territorial
limits of any country or territory by a national of the United Kingdom or
another CSC territory;

4.16AA.8.e

injury or damage that is incurred outside the territorial limits of any
country or territory by, or by persons or property on, an artificial island,
installation or structure that is subject to the jurisdiction of the United
Kingdom or another CSC territory.

4.16AA.9

In this section—

      “ CSC territory ” means—         a country that is a party to the CSC,
or           an overseas territory of such a country, if the CSC applies to
the overseas territory,                 “ national ”, in relation to a CSC
territory, includes—         that CSC territory and any part of it,
a public or private body established in the CSC territory or part of it,
whether a body corporate or not,           a partnership established in the
CSC territory or part of it, and           a trust the validity of which is
governed by the law of the CSC territory, and                 “ the CSC ”
means the Convention on Supplementary Compensation for Nuclear Damage (as
amended or supplemented from time to time).

4.16AA.10

A reference in this section to a national of the United Kingdom is to be
construed in accordance with section 16A(8).

5

In section 17 of 1965 Act (jurisdiction, shared liability and foreign
judgments), in subsection (3B)(a) and (b) after “section 16(1ZA)” insert  “,
(1ZAA)” .

6

6.1

Section 18 of the 1965 Act (general cover for compensation) is amended as
follows.

6.2

In subsection (1A) for “1,500 million euros” substitute  “the aggregate of
1,500 million euros and the value of the CSC international pooled funds” .

6.3

In subsection (1D)–

6.3.a

in each of paragraphs (a) and (b) after “section 16(1ZA)” insert  “, (1ZAA)” ,
and

6.3.b

in paragraph (c) after “section (3B)” insert  “, (3BA), (3BB), (3BD), (3BE)” .

6.4

In subsection (4B)(b) after “section 16(1ZA)” insert  “or, where relevant,
(1ZAA)” .

7

After section 25B of the 1965 Act (amounts in euros) insert—

######## Special drawing rights

7.25C

7.25C.1

In this Act “ special drawing rights ” means special drawing rights as defined
by the International Monetary Fund; and for the purpose of determining the
equivalent in sterling on any day of a sum expressed in special drawing
rights, one special drawing right is to be treated as equal to such a sum in
sterling as the International Monetary Fund have fixed as being the equivalent
of one special drawing right—

7.25C.1.a

for that day, or

7.25C.1.b

if no sum has been so fixed for that day, for the last day before that day for
which a sum has been so fixed.

7.25C.2

A certificate given by or on behalf of the Treasury stating—

7.25C.2.a

that a particular sum in sterling has been so fixed for a particular day, or

7.25C.2.b

that no sum has been so fixed for a particular day and that a particular sum
in sterling has been so fixed for a day which is the last day for which a sum
has been so fixed before the particular day,

is to be conclusive evidence of those matters for the purposes of subsection
(1)  of this section; and a document purporting to be such a certificate is in
any proceedings to be received in evidence and, unless the contrary is proved,
to be deemed to be such a certificate.

7.25C.3

The Treasury may charge a reasonable fee for any certificate given in
pursuance of subsection  (2)  of this section.

7.25C.4

Any fee received by the Treasury by virtue of subsection  (3)  is to be paid
into the Consolidated Fund.

8

8.1

Section 26 of the 1965 Act (interpretation) is amended as follows.

8.2

In subsection (1)—

8.2.a

after the definition of “cover period” insert—

      “ CSC claim ” has the meaning given by section  16AA ;           “ CSC
international pooled funds ” means the funds referred to by Article III.1(b)
of the Convention on Supplementary Compensation for Nuclear Damage;
“ CSC-only claim ” has the meaning given by section  16AA ;

;

8.2.b

in the definition of “event”—

8.2.b.i

after “(1ZA),” insert  “(1ZAA),” , and

8.2.b.ii

after “(3B)” insert  “, (3BD)” ;

8.2.c

after the definition of “the Minister” insert—

      “ non-UK CSC claim ” has the meaning given by section  16AA ;

;

8.2.d

in the definition of “occurrence”—

8.2.d.i

after “(1ZA),” insert  “(1ZAA),” , and

8.2.d.ii

after “(3B)” insert  “, (3BD)” .

8.2.e

after the definition of “overseas territory” insert—

      “ the Paris Convention ” means the Convention on Third Party Liability
in the Field of Nuclear Energy of 29 July 1960, as amended by the Additional
Protocol of 28 January 1964, by the Protocol of 16 November 1982 and by the
Protocol of 12 February 2004;

.

8.3

In subsection (1A)(a)—

8.3.a

in the opening words, for “a relevant international agreement” substitute
“the Paris Convention” ;

8.3.b

in sub-paragraph (i)—

8.3.b.i

for “ relevant international agreement ” (in each place it appears) substitute
“Convention” ;

8.3.b.ii

for “ agreement ” (in the third place it appears) substitute  “Convention” ;

8.3.b.iii

for “agreement’s” substitute  “Convention’s” ;

8.3.c

in sub-paragraph (ii), for “relevant international agreement” substitute
“Convention” .

