Title: Financial Services and Markets Act 2023
Date: 2024-11-04
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/29

## Financial Services and Markets Act 2023

      B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Regulatory framework

#### Revocation of  

##### Revocation of  

1

1.1

The legislation referred to in Schedule 1 is revoked.

1.2

In that Schedule—

1.2.a

Part 1 refers to  assimilated direct principal  legislation;

1.2.b

Part 2 refers to subordinate legislation;

1.2.c

Part 3 refers to EU tertiary legislation and subordinate legislation made
under an instrument referred to in Part 2;

1.2.d

Part 4 refers to primary legislation;

1.2.e

Part 5 refers to other EU-derived legislation not covered by Parts 1 to 3.

1.3

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.4

The revocation of any legislation in accordance with this section does not
affect the continued effect of any amendments to other legislation made by
that revoked legislation (as those amendments had effect immediately before
the revocation).

1.5

The Treasury may by regulations provide for specified subordinate legislation,
or for subordinate legislation of a specified description, otherwise falling
within Part 5 of Schedule 1, not to fall within that Part.

1.6

Regulations under subsection (5) are subject to the negative procedure.

##### Transitional amendments

2

2.1

Schedule 2 amends particular legislation referred to in Schedule 1 in relation
to the transitional period.

2.2

In this Chapter “ the transitional period ”, in relation to any legislation,
means the period ending with the revocation of that legislation.

2.3

The amendments in Schedule 2 do not restrict the power in section 3 to modify
legislation as amended by that Schedule.

##### Power to make further transitional amendments

3

3.1

The Treasury may by regulations modify legislation referred to in Schedule 1
in relation to the transitional period.

3.2

The power under subsection (1) is exercisable only by making such
modifications as the Treasury consider necessary or desirable for or in
connection with one or more of the following purposes—

3.2.a

protecting and enhancing the integrity or stability of the financial system
operating in the United Kingdom;

3.2.b

promoting the safety and soundness of persons providing financial services;

3.2.c

promoting effectiveness in the functioning of financial markets;

3.2.d

promoting effective competition in the interests of consumers in financial
services and markets or persons who use, or are likely to use, services
provided by payment systems in the course of business carried on by those
persons;

3.2.e

facilitating the international competitiveness of the economy of the United
Kingdom and its growth in the medium to long term;

3.2.f

protecting consumers and those who are, or may become, insurance
policyholders;

3.2.g

providing for efficient and effective arrangements in relation to the exercise
of functions under the Banking Act 2009 or Part 4 of this Act;

3.2.h

protecting public funds;

3.2.i

implementing, or making changes to reflect, developments in international
standards and practices relating to, or applied for the purposes of, the
provision of financial services or the operation of financial markets;

3.2.j

providing for efficient and effective regulatory, enforcement, investigatory
and supervisory arrangements in relation to the provision of financial
services or the operation of financial markets;

3.2.k

removing provisions that are yet to be commenced or changing the timing of
their commencement.

3.3

In subsection (2)—

3.3.a

the integrity of the financial system operating in the United Kingdom includes
the matters listed in section 1D(2) of FSMA 2000;

3.3.b

references to financial markets include references to financial exchanges;

3.3.c

“ consumer ” has the meaning given by section 1G(1) of FSMA 2000;

3.3.d

“ payment system ” has the same meaning as in Part 5 of the Financial Services
(Banking Reform) Act 2013 (see section 41 of that Act);

3.3.e

the reference to regulatory arrangements includes (among other things) a
reference to arrangements for the making of rules.

3.4

In modifying legislation for or in connection with a purpose mentioned in
subsection (2) regulations under this section may—

3.4.a

confer powers on the Treasury or on a regulator;

3.4.b

authorise the making of subordinate legislation by the Treasury;

3.4.c

authorise the making of rules or other instruments by a regulator;

3.4.d

provide for fees to be charged by a regulator in connection with the carrying
out of its functions;

3.4.e

apply (with or without modifications), or make equivalent or similar provision
to, provisions made by or under FSMA 2000 (including criminal offences created
by that Act).

3.5

The power under section 84(2)(c) to make supplementary, incidental,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision includes, in
relation to regulations under this section, power to restate legislation in a
clearer or more accessible way.

3.6

Before making regulations under this section the Treasury must consult the
regulators.

3.7

The duty under subsection (6), so far as relating to the Bank of England or
the Payment Systems Regulator, applies only if, and to the extent that, the
Treasury think it appropriate to consult that regulator in view of the
modifications being made by the regulations.

3.8

The power under subsection (1) to modify legislation does not include power to
modify—

3.8.a

primary legislation referred to in Part 4 of Schedule 1;

3.8.b

technical standards of the kind mentioned in section 138P(2)(a) of FSMA 2000;

3.8.c

EU tertiary legislation of the kind mentioned in section 138P(2)(b) of FSMA
2000.

3.9

Regulations under this section that modify only the following kinds of
legislation referred to in Schedule 1 are subject to the negative procedure—

3.9.a

EU tertiary legislation;

3.9.b

subordinate legislation that was not subject to affirmative resolution on
being made.

3.10

Regulations under this section to which subsection (9) does not apply are
subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Power to restate and modify saved legislation

4

4.1

The power under section 86(5) to make saving provision in connection with the
revocation of any legislation referred to in Schedule 1 includes power to
restate that legislation (as it has effect immediately before its revocation)—

4.1.a

by amending primary legislation or subordinate legislation, or

4.1.b

by making new subordinate legislation.

4.2

Regulations made by virtue of subsection (1) may make such modifications of
the legislation being restated as the Treasury consider necessary or desirable
for or in connection with—

4.2.a

the purpose of making the law clearer or more accessible, or

4.2.b

any of the purposes mentioned in section 3(2).

4.3

Legislation restated by virtue of subsection (1) is not   assimilated   law.

4.4

Where legislation is restated by virtue of subsection (1), the Treasury may by
regulations make such further modifications of that legislation as they
consider necessary or desirable for or in connection with a purpose referred
to in subsection (2)(a) or (b).

4.5

Subsection (4) of section 3 applies to regulations made under, or by virtue
of, this section as it applies to regulations made under that section.

4.6

The power conferred by virtue of subsection (1) to restate legislation may be
exercised in relation to the entirety of that legislation or in relation to
such parts of it as the Treasury consider appropriate.

4.7

The power conferred by virtue of subsection (1) to restate legislation does
not include power to restate—

4.7.a

technical standards of the kind mentioned in section 138P(2)(a) of FSMA 2000,
or

4.7.b

EU tertiary legislation of the kind mentioned in section 138P(2)(b) of FSMA
2000.

4.8

Regulations made by virtue of this section that do not amend primary
legislation and contain provision restating only the following kinds of
legislation referred to in Schedule 1 are subject to the negative procedure—

4.8.a

EU tertiary legislation;

4.8.b

subordinate legislation that was not subject to affirmative resolution on
being made;

4.8.c

any other legislation, so far as restated without any modifications made for a
purpose mentioned in section 3(2).

4.9

Regulations made by virtue of this section to which subsection (8) does not
apply are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Power to replace references to EU directives

5

5.1

The Treasury may by regulations modify legislation for or in connection with
the purpose of replacing any reference (however expressed) to an EU directive
referred to in Part 3 of Schedule 1 with such other provision (if any) as the
Treasury consider appropriate.

5.2

The power under subsection (1) is exercisable only if the Treasury consider it
necessary or desirable to replace the reference for or in connection with—

5.2.a

the purpose of making the law clearer or more accessible, or

5.2.b

any of the purposes mentioned in section 3(2).

5.3

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure if
they amend primary legislation.

5.4

Regulations under this section to which subsection (3) does not apply are
subject to the negative procedure.

##### Restatement in rules: exemption from consultation requirements etc

6

6.1

A relevant requirement does not apply to the making of rules by a regulator if
and to the extent that—

6.1.a

the proposed rules make excluded provision in relation to provisions of
legislation referred to in Schedule 1, and

6.1.b

those provisions of legislation are specified, or fall within a description of
provisions specified, in relation to the making of rules by the regulator in
regulations made by the Treasury for the purposes of this section.

6.2

A relevant requirement does not apply to the making of rules by a regulator if
and to the extent that—

6.2.a

the proposed rules make excluded changes to provision of existing rules made
by the regulator containing   an assimilated   obligation, and

6.2.b

  the assimilated   obligation is specified, or falls within a description of
obligations specified, in relation to the making of rules by the regulator in
regulations made by the Treasury for the purposes of this section.

6.3

A relevant requirement does not apply to the revocation of rules by a
regulator if and to the extent that—

6.3.a

the rules being revoked make provision containing   an assimilated
obligation, and

6.3.b

the rules are revoked without being replaced by other rules made by the
regulator.

6.4

For the purposes of subsection (1), rules make excluded provision in relation
to provisions of legislation if, in the opinion of the regulator making the
rules, the rules reproduce those provisions—

6.4.a

without any changes that are material, or

6.4.b

with changes that are material but their effect is to reduce a regulatory
burden without having any other effects that are material.

6.5

For the purposes of subsection (2), rules make excluded changes to provision
of existing rules if, in the opinion of the regulator making the rules—

6.5.a

the effect of the changes is to reduce a regulatory burden, and

6.5.b

the changes have no other effects that are material.

6.6

In this section references to a “regulatory burden” include (among other
things) references to—

6.6.a

a financial cost;

6.6.b

an administrative inconvenience;

6.6.c

an obstacle to trade or innovation;

6.6.d

an obstacle to efficiency, productivity or profitability.

6.7

Where a relevant requirement does not apply to the making or revocation of
rules by virtue of subsection (1), (2) or (3), the requirement also does not
apply to any rules that contain incidental, supplemental, consequential or
transitional provision so far as made in connection with provision made by
virtue of that subsection.

6.8

“ Relevant requirement ” means—

6.8.a

in relation to rules made by the FCA, the requirements imposed by—

6.8.a.i

section 138I of FSMA 2000, except for subsection (1)(a), and

6.8.a.ii

section 138K of FSMA 2000;

6.8.b

in relation to rules made by the PRA, the requirements imposed by—

6.8.b.i

section 138J of FSMA 2000, except for subsection (1)(a), and

6.8.b.ii

section 138K of FSMA 2000;

6.8.c

in relation to rules made by the Bank of England, the requirements imposed by
paragraph 10(1)(i) of Schedule 17A to FSMA 2000;

6.8.d

in relation to rules made by the Payment Systems Regulator, the requirements
imposed by section 104 of the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013,
except for subsection (2)(a).

6.9

Where a regulator makes or revokes rules without complying with a relevant
requirement by virtue of subsection (1), (2) or (3), the regulator must
publish a statement which must—

6.9.a

in a case falling within subsection (1), list the provisions of legislation
that have been restated by the rules;

6.9.b

in a case falling within subsection (2), specify or describe   the assimilated
obligations in relation to which changes have been made by the rules;

6.9.c

in a case falling within subsection (3), specify or describe   the assimilated
obligations that have been removed by the revocation of the rules.

6.10

Where the statement relates to the making of rules that include provision of a
kind mentioned in subsection (4)(b) or (5)(a) and (b), the statement must—

6.10.a

if made by the FCA, include an explanation of the FCA’s reasons for believing
that making the proposed rules is compatible with its duties under section
1B(1), (4A) and (5)(a) of FSMA 2000;

6.10.b

if made by the PRA, include an explanation of the PRA’s reasons for believing
that making the proposed rules is compatible with its duties under—

6.10.b.i

section 2B(1) or, as the case requires, section 2C(1) or 2D(3) of FSMA 2000,
and

6.10.b.ii

section 2H of FSMA 2000;

6.10.c

if made by the Bank of England, include an explanation of the Bank’s reasons
for believing that making the proposed rules is compatible with—

6.10.c.i

the Bank’s financial stability objective under section 2A of the Bank of
England Act 1998, and

6.10.c.ii

the Bank’s duties under section 30D(1)(a) of that Act;

6.10.d

if made by the Payment Systems Regulator, include an explanation of the
Regulator’s reasons for believing that making the proposed rules is compatible
with its duties under section 49 of the Financial Services (Banking Reform)
Act 2013.

6.11

The statement must be published in the way appearing to the regulator to be
best calculated to bring the statement to the attention of the public.

6.12

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

6.13

In this section “rules”—

6.13.a

in relation to the Payment Systems Regulator, means—

6.13.a.i

generally applicable requirements within the meaning of Part 5 of the
Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013 (as amended by Schedule 7 to this
Act), or

6.13.a.ii

directions of general application imposed under any other enactment;

6.13.b

in relation to any other regulator, means rules made by that regulator under
FSMA 2000 or any other enactment.

##### Interpretation of Chapter

7

7.1

In this Chapter—

“ EU directive ” means a directive within the meaning of Article 288 of the
Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union; “ EU tertiary legislation ”
has the same meaning as in the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018 (see
section 20(1)); “ legislation ” means primary legislation,   assimilated
direct   legislation or subordinate legislation; “ regulator ” means— the FCA,
the PRA, the Bank of England, or the Payment Systems Regulator; “ the
transitional period ” has the meaning given in section 2(2).

7.2

For the purposes of this Chapter, references to legislation do not include
references to rules made by a regulator.

7.3

For the purposes of this Chapter, subordinate legislation was subject to
affirmative resolution on being made if it was made with approval given by a
resolution of each House of Parliament (whether before or after it was made).

7.4

References in this Chapter to the revocation of legislation are, in relation
to the legislation referred to in Part 4 of Schedule 1, to be read as
references to its repeal.

#### New regulatory powers

##### Designated activities regime

###### Designated activities

8

8.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

8.2

After Part 5 insert—

############ Designated activities

############# Designated activities

8.2.71K

8.2.71K.1

The Treasury may by regulations provide for an activity of a specified
description to be a designated activity for the purposes of this Act.

8.2.71K.2

Regulations under this section are referred to in this Act as designated
activity regulations.

8.2.71K.3

Designated activity regulations may provide for an activity to be a designated
activity only if the activity relates or is connected to—

8.2.71K.3.a

the financial markets or exchanges of the United Kingdom, or

8.2.71K.3.b

financial instruments, financial products or financial investments that are
(or are proposed to be) issued or sold to, or by, persons in the United
Kingdom.

8.2.71K.4

The description of an activity as a designated activity may be framed by
reference to—

8.2.71K.4.a

the way in which the activity is carried on, or

8.2.71K.4.b

the description of persons who carry on the activity.

8.2.71K.5

Schedule 6B contains examples of activities that may be specified as
designated activities.

8.2.71K.6

Nothing in Schedule 6B limits the powers conferred by subsection (1).

8.2.71K.7

The financial instruments, financial products and financial investments
mentioned in subsection (3)(b) may include cryptoassets.

############# Restrictions on carrying on of designated activities

8.2.71L

8.2.71L.1

A person must not carry on a designated activity if, or to the extent that,
designated activity regulations prohibit the carrying on of that activity.

8.2.71L.2

A person carrying on a designated activity that is not prohibited by virtue of
subsection (1) must comply with—

8.2.71L.2.a

designated activity rules relating to that activity, and

8.2.71L.2.b

any other requirements imposed in relation to that activity by designated
activity regulations.

8.2.71L.3

For the purposes of this Act designated activity rules are rules made under
section 71N.

############# Designated activity regulations: general

8.2.71M

8.2.71M.1

Designated activity regulations may make provision generally in relation to
the carrying on of designated activities.

8.2.71M.2

The following are examples of provision that may be made by designated
activity regulations—

8.2.71M.2.a

provision about cases in which the restrictions imposed by section 71L are to
apply to persons carrying on a designated activity outside the United Kingdom;

8.2.71M.2.b

provision supplementing, or in connection with, any requirements relating to a
designated activity under designated activity rules.

8.2.71M.3

Designated activity regulations may—

8.2.71M.3.a

provide for exemptions (including exemptions that are subject to specified
conditions);

8.2.71M.3.b

confer powers on the Treasury or the FCA.

############# Designated activities: rules

8.2.71N

8.2.71N.1

The FCA may make rules relating to designated activities.

8.2.71N.2

The power under subsection (1) is only exercisable in so far as designated
activity regulations provide for the FCA to make rules—

8.2.71N.2.a

relating to the designated activity, or

8.2.71N.2.b

relating to specified matters relating to designated activities.

8.2.71N.3

The FCA may by notice suspend any rules made under subsection (1) for such
period as it considers appropriate.

8.2.71N.4

Rules under subsection (1) may include provision enabling requirements imposed
by the rules to be dispensed with, or modified, in such cases or circumstances
as may be determined by the FCA under the rules (subject to subsection (5)).

8.2.71N.5

The powers under subsections (3) and (4) are only exercisable in such
circumstances as may be specified in designated activity regulations.

8.2.71N.6

Before suspending any rules in accordance with subsection (3), the FCA must
consult the PRA.

8.2.71N.7

A notice under subsection (3) must be published by the FCA in the way
appearing to the FCA to be best calculated to bring it to the attention of
persons likely to be affected by it.

8.2.71N.8

The reference in section 137T(a) (supplementary powers) to “ authorised
persons ” includes, in relation to rules made under this section, a reference
to any persons to whom the rules under this section apply.

############# Designated activities: directions

8.2.71O

8.2.71O.1

The FCA may by directions impose such requirements on a person, or such
description of persons, relating to the carrying on of designated activities
as the FCA considers appropriate.

8.2.71O.2

The power under subsection (1) is only exercisable in so far as designated
activity regulations provide for the FCA to make directions relating to the
designated activity.

8.2.71O.3

A requirement may, in particular, be imposed so as to require the person
concerned—

8.2.71O.3.a

to take specified action, or

8.2.71O.3.b

to refrain from taking specified action.

8.2.71O.4

A requirement may extend to activities which are not designated activities.

8.2.71O.5

A direction under this section—

8.2.71O.5.a

may specify the way in which, and the time by which, a thing is to be done;

8.2.71O.5.b

may be varied;

8.2.71O.5.c

may be expressed to have effect during a specified period or until revoked.

8.2.71O.6

The FCA may at any time revoke a direction under this section by notice.

8.2.71O.7

The revocation of a direction does not affect the validity of anything
previously done in accordance with it.

8.2.71O.8

A direction or notice under this section must be given in writing to the
person or persons to whom it applies.

8.2.71O.9

But if in the circumstances the FCA considers it appropriate, the FCA may, in
addition to, or instead of, proceeding under subsection (8), publish the
direction or notice in the way appearing to the FCA to be best calculated to
bring it to the attention of persons likely to be affected by it.

8.2.71O.10

Designated activity regulations may make provision for the exercise of the
power under subsection (1) to be subject to such conditions as may be
specified in the regulations.

8.2.71O.11

Provision under subsection (10) may (among other things) require, where the
exercise of the power relates to a PRA-authorised person, consultation with
the PRA.

8.2.71O.12

The imposition of a requirement that expires at the end of a specified period
does not affect the FCA’s power to impose a new requirement.

############# Designated activities: liability

8.2.71P

8.2.71P.1

Designated activity regulations may make provision about liability and
compensation in connection with this Part.

8.2.71P.2

A contravention of a requirement under designated activity regulations or
designated activity rules—

8.2.71P.2.a

does not, except as provided by designated activity regulations under section
71Q or by regulations under section 71R, make a person guilty of an offence;

8.2.71P.2.b

does not, except as provided by designated activity regulations—

8.2.71P.2.b.i

make any transaction void or unenforceable, or

8.2.71P.2.b.ii

give rise to any action for breach of statutory duty.

8.2.71P.3

Designated activity regulations may in particular—

8.2.71P.3.a

in cases where the regulations make provision for liability, make provision
excluding civil liability (whether generally or to such extent as may be
specified),

8.2.71P.3.b

make provision for liability to be determined in accordance with designated
activity rules,

8.2.71P.3.c

make provision so that a person being subject to a liability includes another
person being entitled as against that person to rescind or repudiate an
agreement, and

8.2.71P.3.d

make provision for the purposes of subsection (1) by applying provisions of
this Act with or without modifications.

############# Designated activities: enforcement

8.2.71Q

8.2.71Q.1

Designated activity regulations may make provision about enforcement in
connection with this Part.

8.2.71Q.2

Provision about enforcement includes (among other things) provision—

8.2.71Q.2.a

requiring the supply of information;

8.2.71Q.2.b

about investigations (including the making of reports);

8.2.71Q.2.c

conferring powers of entry;

8.2.71Q.2.d

conferring powers of inspection, search and seizure;

8.2.71Q.2.e

conferring powers of censure;

8.2.71Q.2.f

imposing monetary penalties;

8.2.71Q.2.g

about appeals;

8.2.71Q.2.h

conferring functions (including functions involving the exercise of a
discretion) on a person.

8.2.71Q.3

Designated activity regulations may in particular make provision for the
purposes of subsection (1) by applying provisions of this Act with or without
modifications, including any criminal offences created by this Act (and
modifications made by virtue of this subsection may widen the scope of any
such offences).

8.2.71Q.4

The power under this section includes power to amend or repeal provisions of
this Act.

############# Designated activities and rules: connected amendments

8.2.71R

8.2.71R.1

The Treasury may by regulations make such modifications to provision made by
or under this Act or any other enactment as the Treasury consider appropriate
for purposes of, or connected with, any designated activity regulations or
designated activity rules.

8.2.71R.2

The power under subsection (1) may in particular be exercised for the purpose
of removing or varying any requirement imposed by or under this Act so far as
applying to the carrying on of any designated activity.

8.2.71R.3

The power under subsection (1) includes power to modify any criminal offence
created by this Act (including by widening the scope of any such offence).

8.2.71R.4

In this section—

      “ enactment ” includes—         an enactment comprised in subordinate
legislation (within the meaning given by section 21 of the Interpretation Act
1978),           an enactment comprised in, or in an instrument made under, a
Measure or Act of Senedd Cymru,           an enactment comprised in, or in an
instrument made under, an Act of the Scottish Parliament, and           an
enactment comprised in, or in an instrument made under, Northern Ireland
legislation;                 “ modify ” includes amend, repeal or revoke.

############# Designated activities regulations: Parliamentary control

8.2.71S

8.2.71S.1

This section applies to regulations which contain provision made under section
71K which provides for an activity of a specified description to be a
designated activity.

8.2.71S.2

A statutory instrument containing regulations to which this section applies,
other than regulations to which subsection (3) applies, may not be made unless
a draft of the instrument has been laid before Parliament and approved by a
resolution of each House.

8.2.71S.3

This subsection applies to regulations which contain a statement made by the
Treasury that they are of the opinion that, by reason of urgency, it is
necessary to make the regulations without a draft of the statutory instrument
containing the regulations being laid and approved under subsection (2).

8.2.71S.4

Where subsection (3) applies to regulations, a statutory instrument containing
the regulations must be laid before Parliament after being made.

8.2.71S.5

Regulations contained in a statutory instrument laid before Parliament under
subsection (4) cease to have effect at the end of the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the instrument is made unless, during that
period, the instrument is approved by a resolution of each House of
Parliament.

8.2.71S.6

In calculating the period of 28 days, no account is to be taken of any whole
days that fall within a period during which—

8.2.71S.6.a

Parliament is dissolved or prorogued, or

8.2.71S.6.b

either House of Parliament is adjourned for more than four days.

8.2.71S.7

If regulations cease to have effect as a result of subsection (5), that does
not—

8.2.71S.7.a

affect the validity of anything previously done under the regulations, or

8.2.71S.7.b

prevent the making of new regulations.

8.3

The following amendments are related to the new Part 5A of FSMA 2000 inserted
by subsection (2).

8.4

In section 3E (memorandum of understanding), in subsection (2) after paragraph
(g) insert—

8.4.ga

directions under section 71O (designated activities: directions);

.

8.5

In section 3I (power of PRA to require the FCA to refrain from specified
action), in subsection (3) in paragraph (a)—

8.5.a

the words from “its powers in relation to the” to the end become sub-paragraph
(i), and

8.5.b

after that sub-paragraph insert

, or

8.5.b.ii

its powers in relation to designated activities under Part 5A;

.

8.6

In section 138D (actions for damages), in subsection (5) after paragraph (za)
insert—

8.6.zaa

rules under Part 5A;

.

8.7

In section 417 (definitions), at the appropriate place insert—

      “ designated activity ” has the meaning given in section 71K;

.

8.8

In section 429 (Parliamentary control of statutory instruments)—

8.8.a

in subsection (2B), after paragraph (a) insert—

8.8.a.aa

provision made under section 71Q which amends or repeals a provision of this
Act;

8.8.a.ab

provision made under section 71R which amends, repeals or revokes a provision
of this Act or another Act of Parliament, an Act of the Scottish Parliament,
an Act or Measure of Senedd Cymru, or Northern Ireland legislation;

;

8.8.b

in subsection (8), in the list of sections beginning with “22B,”, insert at
the appropriate place  “, 71S” ;

8.8.c

in subsection (9) (as inserted by the Financial Services Act 2021), for the
words from “which” to the end substitute  “which is subject to a procedure
before Parliament for the approval of the instrument in draft before it is
made or its approval after it is made.”

8.9

After Schedule 6A insert the Schedule 6B set out in Schedule 3 to this Act.

##### Financial market infrastructure: general rules and requirements

###### Rules relating to central counterparties and central securities depositories

9

9.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

9.2

After section 300E (power to disallow excessive regulatory provision:
supplementary) insert—

############ General rule-making powers

############# Rules relating to central counterparties and central securities depositories

9.2.300F

9.2.300F.1

The Bank of England may make such rules applying to FMI entities—

9.2.300F.1.a

with respect to the carrying on by them of relevant regulated activities, or

9.2.300F.1.b

with respect to the carrying on by them of an activity which is not a relevant
regulated activity,

as appear to the Bank to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of
advancing its Financial Stability Objective.

9.2.300F.2

Each of the following is an “ FMI entity ” for the purposes of this section—

9.2.300F.2.a

a recognised central counterparty;

9.2.300F.2.b

a recognised CSD;

9.2.300F.2.c

a third country central counterparty;

9.2.300F.2.d

a third country CSD.

9.2.300F.3

The power to make rules under subsection (1), so far as applying to a third
country central counterparty or a third country CSD, is subject to section
300G.

9.2.300F.4

In this section “relevant regulated activity”—

9.2.300F.4.a

in relation to a recognised central counterparty, means a regulated activity
described in section 285(3A);

9.2.300F.4.b

in relation to a recognised CSD, means a regulated activity described in
section 285(3D);

9.2.300F.4.c

in relation to a third country central counterparty, means a regulated
activity described in section 285(3C);

9.2.300F.4.d

in relation to a third country CSD, means a regulated activity described in
section 285(3G).

9.2.300F.5

Rules under this section may include—

9.2.300F.5.a

provision applying to an FMI entity even though there is no relationship
between the entity to which the rules will apply and the persons whose
interests will be protected by the rules;

9.2.300F.5.b

requirements which take into account, in the case of an FMI entity which is a
member of a group, any activity of another member of the group.

############# Section 300F: rules in relation to overseas FMI entities

9.2.300G

9.2.300G.1

The power to make rules under section 300F, so far as applying to an FMI
entity of the kind mentioned in subsection (2)(c) or (d) of that section (an
“overseas FMI entity”), is exercisable—

9.2.300G.1.a

only by the application of corresponding rules, and

9.2.300G.1.b

except in the case of systemic third country CCPs (see subsection (6)), only
so far as authorised by regulations made by the Treasury.

9.2.300G.2

The reference in subsection (1)(a) to “corresponding rules” is—

9.2.300G.2.a

in relation to rules that would apply to a third country central counterparty,
rules under section 300F that apply to a recognised central counterparty;

9.2.300G.2.b

in relation to rules that would apply to a third country CSD, rules under
section 300F that apply to a recognised CSD.

9.2.300G.3

Rules may be applied in accordance with subsection (1)(a)—

9.2.300G.3.a

by applying all corresponding rules or only such corresponding rules as the
Bank considers appropriate;

9.2.300G.3.b

with such modifications as the Bank considers appropriate for the purpose of
ensuring the effectiveness of the rules in their application to the overseas
FMI entities concerned (having regard in particular to the establishment of
such entities in countries other than the United Kingdom).

9.2.300G.4

Regulations under subsection (1)(b) may authorise the making of rules
generally in respect of overseas FMI entities or only in respect of overseas
FMI entities which—

9.2.300G.4.a

are specified or described in the regulations, or

9.2.300G.4.b

satisfy conditions specified in the regulations.

9.2.300G.5

Regulations under subsection (1)(b) may—

9.2.300G.5.a

provide for the power to make rules under section 300F, so far as applying to
an overseas FMI entity, to be subject to such limitations or conditions as may
be specified in the regulations;

9.2.300G.5.b

make provision by reference to matters to be determined by the Bank;

9.2.300G.5.c

provide for exemptions.

9.2.300G.6

The restriction imposed by subsection (1)(b) does not apply in the case of
systemic third country CCPs (and accordingly references to overseas FMI
entities in subsections (4) and (5) do not include references to systemic
third country CCPs).

9.2.300G.7

A “ systemic third country CCP ” means any third country central counterparty
that the Bank has determined is systemically important, or is likely to become
systemically important, to the financial stability of the United Kingdom.

9.2.300G.8

The Bank must publish notice of any determination made under subsection (7).

9.2.300G.9

A determination under subsection (7) must be made in accordance with such
criteria of general application as are set out in regulations made by the
Treasury for the purposes of this section.

9.2.300G.10

In making a determination under subsection (7) the Bank must also have regard
to any statement of policy prepared and published by the Bank for the purposes
of providing further specification of the criteria of general application
mentioned in subsection (9).

9.2.300G.11

The Bank—

9.2.300G.11.a

may alter or replace a statement of policy prepared for the purposes of this
section;

9.2.300G.11.b

must publish a statement as altered or replaced.

9.2.300G.12

Publication under this section is to be made in such manner as the Bank
considers best designed to bring the publication to the attention of the
public.

9.2.300G.13

The Treasury must consult the Bank before making regulations under subsection
(9).

9.2.300G.14

The Treasury may by regulations provide for other provisions of this Act to
apply in relation to third country central counterparties, or third country
CSDs, to which rules under section 300F apply, with such modifications as may
be specified in the regulations.

9.3

In section 165 (regulators’ power to require information: authorised persons
etc) omit subsection (8A).

9.4

In section 165A (PRA’s power to require information: financial stability) omit
subsection (7A).

9.5

In section 293 (notification requirements)—

9.5.a

in subsection (7A) at the end insert  “and a third country central
counterparty” ;

9.5.b

in subsection (8) for “or an overseas clearing house” substitute  “, an
overseas clearing house or a third country central counterparty” .

9.6

In section 417(1) (definitions), at the appropriate place insert—

      “ Financial Stability Objective ” means the objective set out in section
2A of the Bank of England Act 1998;

.

###### Central counterparties and central securities depositories: other requirements

10

In Schedule 17A to FSMA 2000 (further provision in relation to exercise of
Part 18 functions by Bank of England), before paragraph 10 (and the heading
before it) insert—

########## Requirements

10.9B

10.9B.1

The powers conferred by section 55L(3) (FCA own-initiative power to impose
requirements on authorised persons) are exercisable by the Bank to impose
requirements on a relevant FMI entity.

10.9B.2

In this paragraph “ relevant FMI entity ” means—

10.9B.2.a

a recognised central counterparty,

10.9B.2.b

a recognised CSD, or

10.9B.2.c

a systemic third country CCP as defined by section 300G(7).

10.9B.3

The power under sub-paragraph (1) is exercisable only if it appears to the
Bank that either (or both) of the following conditions is met.

10.9B.4

The first condition is that it is desirable to exercise the power in order to
advance the Financial Stability Objective.

10.9B.5

The second condition is that the relevant FMI entity—

10.9B.5.a

has failed, or is likely to fail, to satisfy the recognition requirements, or

10.9B.5.b

has failed to comply with any other obligation imposed on it by or under this
Act.

10.9B.6

The power conferred by sub-paragraph (1) may not be exercised so as to
restrict or prohibit discretionary payments to employees or shareholders of a
recognised central counterparty (and for this purpose “ discretionary payment
” has the meaning given by paragraph 13(11) of Schedule 11 to the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2023 and “ employee ” has the meaning given by
paragraph 154 of that Schedule).

10.9B.7

The powers conferred by section 55L(5) (FCA power to impose requirements on
application of authorised persons with Part 4A permission) are exercisable by
the Bank to impose requirements on a relevant FMI entity on the application of
that entity.

10.9B.8

A power conferred by this paragraph is exercisable whether or not there is a
relationship between the entity in relation to which it is exercised and the
persons whose interests will be protected by its exercise.

10.9B.9

The following provisions apply in relation to requirements imposed by the Bank
under this paragraph as they apply in relation to requirements imposed by the
FCA under section 55L, with the modifications in sub-paragraph (10)—

10.9B.9.a

section 55L(6) (power to refuse application to impose etc requirements);

10.9B.9.b

section 55N (further provision in relation to requirements);

10.9B.9.c

section 55P (prohibitions and restrictions);

10.9B.9.d

section 55Q (exercise of power in support of overseas regulator);

10.9B.9.e

section 55R(1) (persons connected with applicant);

10.9B.9.f

section 55U(3) to (8) (applications for requirement to be imposed etc);

10.9B.9.g

section 55V(1) to (6) (determination of applications);

10.9B.9.h

section 55X(2) and (4)(f) (warning and decision notices on refusal of
applications);

10.9B.9.i

section 55Y (exercise of own-initiative power: procedure);

10.9B.9.j

section 55Z3(1) and (2) (right to refer matters to the Tribunal).

10.9B.10

The modifications are—

10.9B.10.a

any reference to the FCA is to be read as a reference to the Bank;

10.9B.10.b

any references to own-initiative powers are to be read as references to the
power conferred by sub-paragraph (1);

10.9B.10.c

any references to an authorised person are to be read as references to
relevant FMI entities;

10.9B.10.d

in section 55L(6), the reference to the FCA’s operational objectives is to be
read as a reference to the Bank’s Financial Stability Objective;

10.9B.10.e

section 55N has effect as if the reference to regulated activities in
subsection (2) were a reference to activities in respect of which a
recognition order is in force.

###### Rules relating to investment exchanges and data reporting service providers

11

11.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

11.2

After section 300G (section 300F: rules in relation to overseas FMI entities)
(inserted by section 9) insert—

############ Rules relating to investment exchanges and data reporting service providers

11.2.300H

11.2.300H.1

The FCA may make such rules applying to recognised UK investment exchanges or
data reporting service providers—

11.2.300H.1.a

with respect to the carrying on by them of relevant activities, or

11.2.300H.1.b

with respect to the carrying on by them of an activity which is not a relevant
activity,

as appear to the FCA to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of advancing
one or more of its operational objectives.

11.2.300H.2

In this section “relevant activity”—

11.2.300H.2.a

in relation to a recognised UK investment exchange, means a regulated activity
described in section 285(2);

11.2.300H.2.b

in relation to a data reporting service provider, means providing a data
reporting service.

11.2.300H.3

Rules under this section may include—

11.2.300H.3.a

provision applying to a recognised UK investment exchange or data reporting
service provider even though there is no relationship between that person and
the persons whose interests will be protected by the rules;

11.2.300H.3.b

requirements which take into account, in the case of a recognised UK
investment exchange or data reporting service provider which is a member of a
group, any activity of another member of the group.

11.2.300H.4

Rules under this section may not modify, amend or revoke any retained direct
EU legislation (except retained direct EU legislation which takes the form of
FCA rules).

11.2.300H.5

In this section—

      “data reporting service” and “data reporting service provider” have the
meanings given by regulation 2 of the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2017
( S.I. 2017/699 );           “ recognised UK investment exchange ” means a
recognised investment exchange that is not an overseas investment exchange as
defined in section 313(1).

11.3

In section 166A (appointment of skilled person to collect and update
information), after subsection (9) insert—

11.3.9A

The powers conferred by this section may also be exercised by the FCA in
relation to a recognised investment exchange (and references to an authorised
person are to be read accordingly).

11.4

In section 168 (appointment of persons to carry out investigations in
particular cases), in subsection (4)(ca), at the end insert  “or a rule made
by the FCA under section  300H ” .

11.5

In section 312E (public censure)—

11.5.a

in subsection (1)—

11.5.a.i

after “recognised body” insert  “or data reporting service provider” ;

11.5.a.ii

after “the body” insert  “or provider” ;

11.5.b

in subsection (2)(a) after “exchange” insert  “or data reporting service
provider” ;

11.5.c

after subsection (3) insert—

11.5.c.4

In this Chapter “ data reporting service provider ” has the meaning given by
regulation 2 of the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/699
).

11.6

In section 312F (financial penalties), in subsection (1)—

11.6.a

after “recognised body” insert  “or data reporting service provider” ;

11.6.b

after “the body”, in both places, insert  “or provider” .

11.7

In section 312G (proposal to take disciplinary measures), in subsection (1)—

11.7.a

in paragraph (a), after “recognised body” insert  “or data reporting service
provider” ;

11.7.b

in the words after paragraph (b), after “body” insert  “, provider” .

11.8

In section 312H (decision notice)—

11.8.a

in subsection (1)—

11.8.a.i

in paragraph (a), after “recognised body” insert  “or data reporting service
provider” ;

11.8.a.ii

in the words after paragraph (b), after “body” insert  “, provider” ;

11.8.b

in subsection (4)—

11.8.b.i

in paragraph (a), after “recognised body” insert  “or data reporting service
provider” ;

11.8.b.ii

in the words after paragraph (b), after “body” insert  “, provider” .

11.9

In section 312I(a) (publication), after “recognised body” insert  “, data
reporting service provider” .

###### Treasury directions to Bank of England: restrictions

12

12.1

Section 4 of the Bank of England Act 1946 (Treasury directions to the Bank) is
amended as follows.

12.2

In subsection (1), after paragraph (b) insert—

12.2.c

the exercise by the Bank of its functions under any enactment in relation to
the following bodies—

12.2.c.i

recognised central counterparties;

12.2.c.ii

recognised CSDs;

12.2.c.iii

third country central counterparties;

12.2.c.iv

third country CSDs.

12.3

After subsection (1) insert—

12.3.2A

Expressions used in subsection (1)(c) have the same meaning as in section 285
of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (exemption for recognised
bodies etc).

##### Financial market infrastructure: piloting powers

###### Testing of FMI technologies or practices

13

13.1

The Treasury may by regulations make provision for the purposes of—

13.1.a

testing, for a limited period, the efficiency or effectiveness of the carrying
on of FMI activities in a particular way, and

13.1.b

assessing whether or how relevant enactments should apply in relation to FMI
activities carried on in that way.

13.2

The reference in subsection (1)(a) to FMI activities being carried on in a
particular way includes a reference to—

13.2.a

the use of developing technology in the carrying on of FMI activities;

13.2.b

the adoption of new or different practices in the carrying on of FMI
activities.

13.3

Provision made in regulations under subsection (1) is referred to in this
group of sections as an FMI sandbox.

13.4

An FMI sandbox must specify or otherwise provide for—

13.4.a

the FMI activities to which the FMI sandbox arrangements relate;

13.4.b

the description—

13.4.b.i

of FMI entities eligible to participate in the FMI sandbox arrangements, and

13.4.b.ii

of any other persons (including in particular the users of services provided
by FMI entities) eligible to so participate;

13.4.c

the limited period for which the FMI sandbox arrangements apply.

13.5

An FMI sandbox may confer functions on the appropriate regulator in connection
with the implementation and operation of the FMI sandbox arrangements.

13.6

An FMI sandbox may—

13.6.a

provide for a relevant enactment not to apply for the purposes of the FMI
sandbox arrangements;

13.6.b

provide for modifications in the application of a relevant enactment for those
purposes;

13.6.c

provide for the application of a relevant enactment (with or without
modifications) for those purposes;

but provision under this subsection may not amend, repeal or revoke a relevant
enactment.

13.7

In the case of a relevant enactment that is a rule or another instrument made
by an appropriate regulator, provision under subsection (6) may provide for
the powers under that subsection to be exercisable by that regulator.

13.8

Schedule 4 contains further examples of types of provision that an FMI sandbox
may make.

13.9

An FMI sandbox—

13.9.a

may be replaced by another FMI sandbox of the same or similar effect;

13.9.b

may have effect at the same time as one or more other FMI sandboxes.

13.10

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

13.11

For the purposes of this group of sections—

13.11.a

“ FMI entity ” means—

13.11.a.i

a recognised investment exchange that is not an overseas investment exchange;

13.11.a.ii

a recognised CSD;

13.11.a.iii

the operator of a multilateral trading facility;

13.11.a.iv

the operator of an organised trading facility;

13.11.a.v

such other persons as may be specified in regulations under this section as
eligible to participate in the FMI sandbox arrangements concerned;

13.11.b

“FMI activities” are any activities carried on as part of the business of an
FMI entity;

13.11.c

“ FMI sandbox arrangements ” means any arrangements implemented as part of an
FMI sandbox.

###### Reports on FMI sandboxes

14

14.1

This section applies where the Treasury make regulations under section 13
implementing FMI sandbox arrangements.

14.2

The Treasury must prepare and publish a report on the FMI sandbox
arrangements.

14.3

The report must be prepared by a date no later than the date specified in the
regulations.

14.4

The report must contain—

14.4.a

a description of the FMI sandbox arrangements;

14.4.b

an assessment of the efficiency or effectiveness of those arrangements;

14.4.c

whether, and if so how, the Treasury propose exercising the power under
section 15 in relation to those arrangements.

14.5

The Treasury must consult the appropriate regulator in preparing the report.

14.6

The appropriate regulator must provide to the Treasury such information or
other assistance as the Treasury may require for the purposes of preparing the
report.

14.7

The Treasury must lay a copy of the report before Parliament.

###### Permanent implementation of arrangements tested under an FMI sandbox

15

15.1

This section applies where, after testing the efficiency or effectiveness of
FMI sandbox arrangements implemented under an FMI sandbox, the Treasury
determine that arrangements of the same or similar effect should have effect
after the expiry of the FMI sandbox.

15.2

The Treasury may by regulations make provision implementing the FMI sandbox
arrangements—

15.2.a

as tested under the FMI sandbox, or

15.2.b

with such variations as the Treasury consider appropriate.

15.3

Regulations under this section that implement FMI sandbox arrangements may be
made before (as well as after) the expiry of the FMI sandbox concerned.

15.4

Regulations under this section may include provision that amends, repeals or
revokes a relevant enactment.

15.5

Regulations under this section that amend, repeal or revoke any provision of
primary legislation are subject to the affirmative procedure.

15.6

Regulations under this section to which subsection (5) does not apply are
subject to the negative procedure.

###### Regulations

16

16.1

A power to make regulations under this group of sections includes power
conferring a discretion on an appropriate regulator, or another specified
person, to do anything under, or for the purposes of, the regulations.

16.2

Before making regulations under this group of sections the Treasury must
consult—

16.2.a

the appropriate regulators;

16.2.b

such other persons as the Treasury consider appropriate.

###### Interpretation

17

17.1

This section applies for the purposes of this section and sections 13 to 16.

17.2

The “ appropriate regulator ”, in relation to an FMI sandbox, means the
regulator specified in that sandbox as the appropriate regulator (and both of
the regulators may be specified); and for this purpose “ regulator ” means—

17.2.a

the FCA, or

17.2.b

the Bank of England.

17.3

“ Relevant enactment ” means any provision made by or under—

17.3.a

FSMA 2000;

17.3.b

the Companies Act 2006;

17.3.c

the Financial Markets Insolvency (Settlement Finality) Regulations 1999 ( S.I.
1999/2979 );

17.3.d

the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 ( S.I. 2001/3755 );

17.3.e

the Financial Collateral Arrangements (No. 2) Regulations 2003 ( S.I.
2003/3226 );

17.3.f

Regulation (EU) No 596/2014  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
16 April 2014 on market abuse (market abuse regulation);

17.3.g

Regulation (EU) No 600/2014  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments;

17.3.h

Regulation (EU) No 909/2014  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
23 July 2014 on improving securities settlement in the European Union and on
central securities depositories;

17.3.i

Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/565  of 25 April 2016 supplementing
Directive 2014/65/EU  of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards
organisational requirements and operating conditions for investment firms and
defined terms for the purposes of that Directive.

17.4

The following terms are defined as follows—

      “ FMI activities ” has the meaning given by section 13(11)(b);
“ FMI entity ” has the meaning given by section 13(11)(a);           “ FMI
sandbox ” has the meaning given by section 13(3);           “ FMI sandbox
arrangements ” has the meaning given by section 13(11)(c);           “ this
group of sections ” means the sections referred to in subsection (1).

17.5

The following terms have the same meanings as in Part 18 of FSMA 2000—

      “multilateral trading facility”;           “organised trading facility”;
“overseas investment exchange”;           “recognised investment exchange”;
“recognised CSD”.

17.6

The Treasury may by regulations amend subsection (3) so as to add to the list
of relevant enactments.

17.7

Regulations under subsection (6) are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Powers in relation to critical third parties

###### Critical third parties: designation and powers

18

18.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

18.2

In the heading to Part 18, for “and CSDs” substitute  “, CSDs and other
parties” .

18.3

After section 312K (statement of policy: procedure) insert—

############ Critical third parties

############# Critical third parties

18.3.312L

18.3.312L.1

The Treasury may by regulations designate a person who provides services to
one or more authorised persons, relevant service providers or FMI entities as
a “critical third party”.

18.3.312L.2

The Treasury may designate a person under subsection (1) only if in the
Treasury’s opinion a failure in, or disruption to, the provision of those
services (either individually or, where more than one service is provided,
taken together) could threaten the stability of, or confidence in, the UK
financial system.

18.3.312L.3

The Treasury must have regard to the following factors when forming an opinion
for the purposes of subsection (2)—

18.3.312L.3.a

the materiality of the services provided to the delivery, by any person, of
essential activities, services or operations (wherever carried out);

18.3.312L.3.b

the number and type of authorised persons, relevant service providers or FMI
entities to which the person provides services.

18.3.312L.4

Before making regulations under subsection (1) the Treasury must—

18.3.312L.4.a

consult each of the relevant regulators and such other persons as the Treasury
consider appropriate,

18.3.312L.4.b

give notice in writing to the person to be designated specifying a reasonable
period within which that person may make representations in writing about the
proposal to the Treasury, and

18.3.312L.4.c

have regard to any representations made to them in accordance with paragraph
(b).

18.3.312L.5

The Treasury may not designate the Bank of England under subsection (1).

18.3.312L.6

Each of the following is a relevant regulator for the purposes of this
Chapter—

18.3.312L.6.a

the FCA,

18.3.312L.6.b

the PRA, and

18.3.312L.6.c

the Bank of England.

18.3.312L.7

Activities, services or operations are “ essential ” for the purposes of
subsection (3) if they are essential to—

18.3.312L.7.a

the economy of the United Kingdom, or

18.3.312L.7.b

the stability of, or confidence in, the UK financial system.

18.3.312L.8

In this Chapter—

      “ critical third party ” means a person designated under subsection (1);
“ FMI entity ” means—         a recognised clearing house;           a
recognised CSD;           a recognised investment exchange which is not an
overseas investment exchange;           a recognised payment system under
section 184 of the Banking Act 2009;           a person specified as a service
provider in relation to a recognised payment system under section 206A of the
Banking Act 2009;                 “ relevant service provider ” means—
an electronic money institution as defined by regulation 2(1) of the
Electronic Money Regulations 2011 ( S.I. 2011/99 );           an authorised
payment institution, small payment institution or registered account
information services provider as defined by regulation 2(1) of the Payment
Services Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/752 );                 “ service ”
includes facility.

############# Power to make rules

18.3.312M

18.3.312M.1

A relevant regulator may make such rules imposing duties on critical third
parties in connection with the provision of services to authorised persons,
relevant service providers and FMI entities as appear to the regulator to be
necessary or expedient for the purpose of advancing any of its objectives.

18.3.312M.2

The reference in subsection (1) to a relevant regulator’s objectives is a
reference to—

18.3.312M.2.a

where the regulator is the FCA, one or more of its operational objectives;

18.3.312M.2.b

where the regulator is the PRA, one or more of its objectives;

18.3.312M.2.c

where the regulator is the Bank, the Bank’s Financial Stability Objective.

18.3.312M.3

In the application of Part 9A to rules made by the FCA or the PRA under this
section, the following provisions apply with the modifications specified in
this subsection—

18.3.312M.3.a

section 137T (general supplementary powers) applies as if—

18.3.312M.3.a.i

the reference in paragraph (a) to “authorised persons, activity or investment”
were a reference to “critical third parties or services”, and

18.3.312M.3.a.ii

in paragraph (b) for the words from “as” to the end there were substituted
“or the Bank, or standards issued by any other person, as those rules or
standards have effect from time to time,” ;

18.3.312M.3.b

section 138B (publication of directions) applies as if subsection (4) were
omitted;

18.3.312M.3.c

section 138F (notification of rules) applies as if subsections (1A) and (2)
were omitted;

18.3.312M.3.d

section 138I (consultation) applies as if the reference in subsection (1)(a)
to the “PRA” were a reference to the “ PRA and the Bank ”;

18.3.312M.3.e

section 138J (consultation) applies as if the reference in subsection (1)(a)
to the “FCA” were a reference to the “ FCA and the Bank ”.

############# Power of direction

18.3.312N

18.3.312N.1

A relevant regulator may, if it appears to the regulator to be necessary or
expedient for the purpose of advancing any of its objectives, direct a
critical third party to—

18.3.312N.1.a

do anything specified in the direction, or

18.3.312N.1.b

refrain from doing anything specified in the direction.

18.3.312N.2

A direction under this section—

18.3.312N.2.a

must be given by notice in writing,

18.3.312N.2.b

may be expressed to have effect during a specified period or until revoked,
and

18.3.312N.2.c

may specify the way in which, and the time by which, a thing is to be done.

18.3.312N.3

Subsection (4) applies if a direction is given to a critical third party for
the purpose of resolving or reducing a threat to the stability or integrity of
the UK financial system.

18.3.312N.4

The critical third party (including the critical third party’s officers and
staff) has immunity from liability in damages in respect of action or inaction
in accordance with the direction.

18.3.312N.5

A direction given for the purpose mentioned in subsection (3) must—

18.3.312N.5.a

include a statement that it is given for that purpose, and

18.3.312N.5.b

inform the critical third party of the effect of subsection (4).

18.3.312N.6

An immunity conferred by this section does not extend to action or inaction—

18.3.312N.6.a

in bad faith, or

18.3.312N.6.b

in contravention of section 6(1) of the Human Rights Act 1998.

18.3.312N.7

A relevant regulator may at any time revoke a direction under this section by
giving notice in writing to the critical third party to which the direction
relates.

18.3.312N.8

The revocation of the direction does not affect the validity of anything
previously done in accordance with it.

18.3.312N.9

For the purposes of this section the objectives of a relevant regulator are as
described in section 312M(2).

############# Directions: procedure

18.3.312O

18.3.312O.1

If a relevant regulator proposes to give a direction under section 312N, or
gives such a direction with immediate effect, it must give written notice to
the critical third party to which the direction is given (or is to be given)
(the “relevant critical third party”).

18.3.312O.2

A direction under section 312N takes effect—

18.3.312O.2.a

immediately, if the notice under subsection (1) states that this is the case,

18.3.312O.2.b

on such other date as may be specified in the notice, or

18.3.312O.2.c

if neither paragraph (a) or (b) applies, when the matter to which the notice
relates is no longer open to review.

18.3.312O.3

A direction may be expressed to take effect immediately, or on a specified
date, only if the relevant regulator reasonably considers that it is necessary
for the direction to take effect immediately or on that date.

18.3.312O.4

The notice under subsection (1) must—

18.3.312O.4.a

give details of the direction,

18.3.312O.4.b

state the relevant regulator’s reasons for the direction and for its
determination as to when the direction takes effect,

18.3.312O.4.c

inform the relevant critical third party that it may make representations to
the regulator within such period as may be specified in the notice (whether or
not the critical third party has referred the matter to the Tribunal), and

18.3.312O.4.d

inform the relevant critical third party of its right to refer the matter to
the Tribunal (including giving an indication of the procedure on such a
reference).

18.3.312O.5

The relevant regulator may extend the period allowed under the notice for
making representations.

18.3.312O.6

If, having considered any representations made by the relevant critical third
party, the regulator decides—

18.3.312O.6.a

to give the direction proposed, or

18.3.312O.6.b

if the direction has been given, not to revoke the direction,

it must give the critical third party written notice.

18.3.312O.7

If, having considered any representations made by the relevant critical third
party, the regulator decides—

18.3.312O.7.a

not to give the direction proposed,

18.3.312O.7.b

to give a different direction, or

18.3.312O.7.c

to revoke a direction which has effect,

it must give the critical third party written notice.

18.3.312O.8

A notice given under subsection (6) must inform the relevant critical third
party of its right to refer the matter to the Tribunal (including giving an
indication of the procedure on such a reference).

18.3.312O.9

A notice under subsection (7)(b) must comply with subsection (4).

18.3.312O.10

For the purposes of subsection (2)(c), whether a matter is open to review is
to be determined in accordance with section 391(8).

############# Information gathering and investigations

18.3.312P

18.3.312P.1

The provisions of Part 11 (information gathering and investigations) mentioned
in this section are to apply in relation to this Chapter in accordance with
the provision made by this section.

18.3.312P.2

In any case where subsection (1) applies—

18.3.312P.2.a

any reference in Part 11 to the FCA or PRA which is contained in, or relates
to, any of those provisions (however expressed) is to be read as a reference
to a relevant regulator, and

18.3.312P.2.b

Part 11 has effect with any other necessary modifications.

18.3.312P.3

The powers conferred by section 165(1) and (3) (power to require information)
are exercisable by a relevant regulator or (as the case may be) a relevant
regulator’s officers to impose requirements on a critical third party or a
person connected with a critical third party.

18.3.312P.4

The information or documents that a relevant regulator may require to be
produced or provided in accordance with subsection (3) are limited to
information and documents reasonably required in connection with the exercise
by the relevant regulator of functions conferred on it by or under this
Chapter (and accordingly section 165(4) does not apply).

18.3.312P.5

The power conferred by section 166 (reports by skilled person) is exercisable
by a relevant regulator in relation to a critical third party or a person
connected with a critical third party.

18.3.312P.6

The power conferred by section 166A (appointment of skilled person) is
exercisable by a relevant regulator in relation to a critical third party.

18.3.312P.7

The power conferred by section 168(5) (appointment of persons to carry out
investigations in particular cases) is exercisable by a relevant regulator if
it appears to the relevant regulator that there are circumstances suggesting
that a person may have contravened any requirement imposed by or under this
Chapter.

18.3.312P.8

In addition to the powers conferred by section 171, a person conducting an
investigation under section 168(5) as a result of subsection (7) is to have
the powers conferred by sections 172 and 173 (and for this purpose any
references in those sections to an investigator are to be read accordingly).

18.3.312P.9

The power under section 176(1) (entry of premises under warrant) is
exercisable on information on oath given by or on behalf of a relevant
regulator, or an investigator appointed by a relevant regulator, as if the
reference to the third set of conditions were omitted.

18.3.312P.10

For the purposes of this section a person is connected with a critical third
party if that person is or has at any relevant time been—

18.3.312P.10.a

a member of the critical third party’s group,

18.3.312P.10.b

a controller of the critical third party, or

18.3.312P.10.c

in relation to the critical third party, a person mentioned in Part 1 of
Schedule 15 (reading references in that Part to the authorised person as
references to the critical third party).

############# Power of censure

18.3.312Q

If a relevant regulator considers that a critical third party has contravened
a requirement imposed by or under this Chapter the regulator may publish a
statement to that effect.

############# Disciplinary measures

18.3.312R

18.3.312R.1

This section applies if a relevant regulator considers that a critical third
party has contravened a requirement imposed by or under this Chapter.

18.3.312R.2

The relevant regulator may publish a notice—

18.3.312R.2.a

prohibiting the critical third party from entering into arrangements, or
continuing, to provide services to authorised persons, relevant service
providers or FMI entities;

18.3.312R.2.b

prohibiting authorised persons, relevant service providers or FMI entities who
receive services from the critical third party from continuing to receive
those services from that party;

18.3.312R.2.c

prohibiting authorised persons, relevant service providers or FMI entities
from entering into arrangements for receipt of services from the critical
third party;

18.3.312R.2.d

providing for the provision of any services by the critical third party to be
subject to such conditions or limitations as are specified in the notice;

18.3.312R.2.e

providing for any receipt of services by authorised persons, relevant service
providers or FMI entities from the critical third party to be subject to such
conditions or limitations as are specified in the notice.

18.3.312R.3

A notice under subsection (2) may make different provision for different cases
and may in particular make different provision in respect of different
descriptions of services, authorised persons, FMI entities or relevant service
providers.

18.3.312R.4

A relevant regulator may only exercise the powers under subsection (2) if the
regulator is satisfied that—

18.3.312R.4.a

it is appropriate in the circumstances to take action against the critical
third party,

18.3.312R.4.b

the exercise of the power will not threaten the stability of, or confidence
in, the UK financial system, and

18.3.312R.4.c

it is desirable to exercise the power in order to advance one or more of the
regulator’s objectives.

18.3.312R.5

A relevant regulator may either on its own initiative or on an application by
the critical third party concerned withdraw or vary a notice given by it under
subsection (2) by publishing a further notice.

18.3.312R.6

Publication under this section is to be made in such manner as the relevant
regulator considers best designed to bring the publication to the attention of
the public.

18.3.312R.7

Where a notice includes a prohibition, condition or limitation imposed under
subsection (2), publication of a notice under this section must in particular
be made in a manner appearing to the relevant regulator to be best designed to
bring the notice to the attention of the persons to whom the prohibition,
condition or limitation applies.

18.3.312R.8

A person who breaches a prohibition, condition or limitation imposed by a
notice under this section is to be taken to have contravened a requirement
imposed on the person under this Act.

18.3.312R.9

For the purposes of this section the objectives of a relevant regulator are as
described in section 312M(2).

############# Procedure and right to refer to Tribunal

18.3.312S

18.3.312S.1

If a relevant regulator proposes to publish a statement or notice under
section 312Q or 312R, it must give the critical third party, authorised
persons, relevant service providers or FMI entities to whom the statement or
notice would relate a warning notice.

18.3.312S.2

A warning notice must set out the terms of the proposed statement or notice.

18.3.312S.3

If a relevant regulator decides to publish a statement or notice under section
312Q or 312R it must give the critical third party, authorised persons,
relevant service providers or FMI entities to whom the statement or notice
relates a decision notice.

18.3.312S.4

A decision notice must set out the terms of the statement or notice.

18.3.312S.5

If a relevant regulator decides to act under section 312N or 312Q a critical
third party who is aggrieved may refer the matter to the Tribunal.

18.3.312S.6

If a relevant regulator decides to act under section 312R a critical third
party, authorised person, relevant service provider or FMI entity who is
aggrieved may refer the matter to the Tribunal.

############# Statement of policy relating to disciplinary measures

18.3.312T

18.3.312T.1

The relevant regulators must prepare and publish a statement of policy with
respect to the exercise of powers under section 312Q and section 312R.

18.3.312T.2

The relevant regulators may alter or replace a statement published under this
section.

18.3.312T.3

The relevant regulators must publish a statement as altered or replaced under
subsection (2).

18.3.312T.4

Publication under this section is to be made in such manner as the relevant
regulators consider best designed to bring the publication to the attention of
the public.

############# Duty to ensure co-ordinated exercise of functions etc

18.3.312U

18.3.312U.1

The relevant regulators must co-ordinate the exercise of their respective
functions conferred by or under this Chapter.

18.3.312U.2

In complying with the duty in subsection (1) each relevant regulator must
obtain information and advice from any of the other relevant regulators who
may be expected to have relevant information or relevant expertise.

18.3.312U.3

The duty in subsection (1) applies only to the extent that compliance with the
duty does not impose a burden on the relevant regulators that is
disproportionate to the benefits of compliance.

18.3.312U.4

Before exercising any power conferred by or under this Chapter a relevant
regulator must consult each of the other relevant regulators (where not
otherwise required to do so).

############# Memorandum of understanding

18.3.312V

18.3.312V.1

The relevant regulators must prepare and maintain a memorandum which describes
in general terms—

18.3.312V.1.a

the role of the relevant regulators in relation to the exercise of functions
conferred by or under this Chapter, and

18.3.312V.1.b

how they intend to comply with section 312U in relation to the exercise of
such functions.

18.3.312V.2

The relevant regulators must review the memorandum at least once in each
calendar year.

18.3.312V.3

The relevant regulators may revise a memorandum under this section.

18.3.312V.4

The relevant regulators must give the Treasury a copy of the memorandum and
any revised memorandum.

18.3.312V.5

The Treasury must lay before Parliament a copy of any document received by
them under this section.

18.3.312V.6

The relevant regulators must ensure that the memorandum as in force for the
time being is published in the way appearing to them to be best calculated to
bring it to the attention of the public.

18.3.312V.7

The memorandum need not relate to any aspect of compliance with section 312U
if the relevant regulators consider—

18.3.312V.7.a

that publication of information about that aspect would be against the public
interest, or

18.3.312V.7.b

that aspect is a technical or operational matter not affecting the public.

############# Application of provisions of this Act to this Chapter

18.3.312W

The following provisions do not apply for the purposes of this Chapter—

18.3.312W.a

section 3D (duty to ensure co-ordinated exercise of functions);

18.3.312W.b

section 3E (memorandum of understanding);

18.3.312W.c

section 138D (actions for damages).

###### Critical third parties: related amendments

19

19.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

19.2

In section 313 (interpretation of Part 18), in subsection (1), at the
appropriate place insert—

      “ critical third party ” has the same meaning as in Chapter 3C (see
section 312L(8);

.

19.3

In section 380 (injunctions), in subsection (11) after “requirement” insert
“, other than a case falling within paragraph 26 of Schedule 17A” .

19.4

In section 391 (publication), in subsection (1ZB) after paragraph (l) insert—

19.4.la

section 312S;

.

19.5

In section 392 (third party rights and access to evidence)—

19.5.a

in paragraph (a), after “312(G)(1),” insert  “312S(1),” , and

19.5.b

in paragraph (b) after “312H(1),” insert  “312S(3),” .

19.6

In section 429 (Parliamentary control of statutory instruments), in subsection
(8), in the list of sections beginning with “3G(1),”, insert at the
appropriate place  “, 312L” .

19.7

The following amendments are to Schedule 17A (application of provisions to
Bank).

19.8

In paragraph 10 (rules), after sub-paragraph (4) insert—

19.8.4A

Sub-paragraphs (1) to (4) do not apply in relation to rules made by the Bank
under section 312M (in relation to which see paragraph 10A).

19.9

After paragraph 10 insert—

19.9.10A

The following provisions of Part 9A of this Act are to apply in relation to
rules made by the Bank under section 312M, subject to the modifications
specified in this subsection—

19.9.10A.a

section 137T (general supplementary powers) as if—

19.9.10A.a.i

the reference in paragraph (a) to “authorised persons, activity or investment”
were a reference to “critical third parties or services”, and

19.9.10A.a.ii

for paragraph (b) there were substituted—

19.9.10A.a.ii.b

may make provision by reference to rules made by the FCA or PRA or standards
issued by any other person, as those rules or standards have effect from time
to time,

;

19.9.10A.b

sections 138A and 138B (modification or waiver of rules) as if—

19.9.10A.b.i

the reference in subsection (4)(b) of section 138A to any of regulator’s
objectives were a reference to the Bank’s Financial Stability Objective,

19.9.10A.b.ii

subsection (5) of section 138A were omitted, and

19.9.10A.b.iii

subsection (4) of section 138B were omitted;

19.9.10A.c

section 138BA (disapplication or modification of rules in individual cases) as
if subsection (3)(b) and (c) were omitted;

19.9.d

19.9.d.d

section 138C (evidential provisions);

19.9.d.e

section 138E (limits on effect of contravening rules);

19.9.d.f

section 138EA (matters to consider when making rules) as if, for paragraphs
(a) and (b) of subsection (5), there were substituted  “complying with a
recommendation of the Financial Policy Committee of the Bank of England under
section 9O of the Bank of England Act 1998 (making of recommendations within
the Bank).” ;

19.9.d.g

section 138F (notification of rules) as if subsections (1A) and (2) were
omitted;

19.9.d.h

section 138G (rule-making instruments);

19.9.d.i

section 138H (verification of rules);

19.9.d.j

section 138J (consultation) as if—

19.9.d.j.i

the reference in subsection (1)(a) to the “FCA” were a reference to the “ FCA
and the PRA ”;

19.9.d.j.ii

the reference in subsection (2)(d) to the compatibility of the proposed rules
with the provisions mentioned in that subsection were a reference to their
compatibility with the Bank’s Financial Stability Objective; and

19.9.d.j.iii

in subsection (8A), in paragraph (a), for sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii) there
were substituted  “be prejudicial to advancing the Financial Stability
Objective, or” ;

19.9.d.k

section 138JA(2), (3) (4), (10) and (11) (duty to consult PRA Cost Benefit
Analysis Panel);

19.9.d.l

section 138JB (statement of policy in relation to cost benefit analyses);

19.9.d.m

section 138L (consultation: general exemptions) as if—

19.9.d.m.i

subsection (1) were omitted, and

19.9.d.m.ii

in subsection (2) for paragraphs (a) and (b) there were substituted  “be
prejudicial to financial stability.” ;

19.9.d.n

section 141A (power to make consequential amendments of references to rules);

19.9.d.o

section 141B (power to consequentially amend enactments).

19.10

In paragraph 23(1) (public record and disclosure of information), after
“discharge of,” insert  “any of its functions under Chapter 3C of Part 18 of
this Act,” .

19.11

In paragraph 26(2) (injunctions), after paragraph (a) insert—

19.11.aa

a requirement that is imposed on a critical third party by the Bank by or
under any provision of Chapter 3C of this Part of this Act;

.

19.12

In paragraph 28 (restitution)—

19.12.a

in sub-paragraph (2), in the words before paragraph (a), for “or a recognised
CSD” substitute  “, a recognised CSD or a critical third party” ;

19.12.b

in sub-paragraph (2)(a) for “or the recognised CSD” substitute  “, the
recognised CSD or the critical third party” ;

19.12.c

in sub-paragraph (4)(a) for “or the recognised CSD” substitute  “, the
recognised CSD or the critical third party” .

19.13

In paragraph 29 (notices) for “or 312H” substitute  “, 312H or 312S” .

19.14

In paragraph 30 (offences), after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

19.14.aa

a requirement that is imposed by or under any provision of Chapter 3C of Part
18 of this Act that relates to critical third parties;

.

19.15

In paragraph 32 (records) after “recognised CSDs” insert  “, critical third
parties” .

19.16

In paragraph 33(a) (annual report), in the substituted paragraph (a), after
“recognised CSDs”  insert  “, critical third parties” .

19.17

See also Part  6  of Schedule 2.

##### Financial promotion

###### Financial promotion

20

20.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

20.2

In section 21 (restrictions on financial promotion), after subsection (2)
insert—

20.2.2A

The content of a communication may be approved for the purposes of this
section by an authorised person only if the giving of the approval—

20.2.2A.a

is permitted under section 55NA (which enables approval to be given with FCA
permission), or

20.2.2A.b

falls within an exemption conferred by regulations under section 55NB.

20.3

After section 55N insert—

############ General requirement relating to financial promotion approval

20.3.55NA

20.3.55NA.1

An authorised person must not approve the content of a communication for the
purposes of section 21 unless the person has permission to do so given by the
FCA under this section.

20.3.55NA.2

An authorised person who approves the content of a communication for the
purposes of section 21 otherwise than in accordance with permission granted
under this section is to be taken to have contravened a requirement imposed on
the person by the FCA under this Act.

20.3.55NA.3

Permission may be granted by the FCA under this section on the application of—

20.3.55NA.3.a

an authorised person, or

20.3.55NA.3.b

an applicant for Part 4A permission that has yet to be determined.

20.3.55NA.4

The FCA may grant a person permission under this section—

20.3.55NA.4.a

on the terms sought in the application (which may include the grant of
permission to give approvals generally for the purposes of section 21), or

20.3.55NA.4.b

subject to any other terms the FCA considers appropriate (which may in
particular provide for the giving of permission in a narrower description of
case than that sought in the application).

20.3.55NA.5

Where the FCA grants permission to a person under this section, the FCA may
vary or cancel the permission—

20.3.55NA.5.a

on the application of the person to whom it was given, or

20.3.55NA.5.b

of its own initiative,

and subsection (4)(b) applies to the variation of permission as it applies to
its grant.

20.3.55NA.6

If the FCA grants or varies permission under this section it must set out the
terms on which the permission is given, described in such way as it considers
appropriate.

20.3.55NA.7

The FCA may refuse to grant an application for permission under this section,
or for its variation or cancellation under subsection (5)(a), if it appears to
the FCA that it is desirable to do so in order to advance one or more of its
operational objectives.

20.3.55NA.8

The FCA may vary or cancel a person’s permission under subsection (5)(b) if it
appears to the FCA that—

20.3.55NA.8.a

the person has failed, during a period of at least 12 months, to give, or to
refuse to give, any approvals for the purposes of section 21 in accordance
with the permission, or

20.3.55NA.8.b

it is desirable to vary or cancel the permission in order to advance one or
more of its operational objectives.

20.3.55NA.9

The FCA must consult—

20.3.55NA.9.a

the PRA before giving permission under this section to, or before varying or
cancelling permission under this section given to—

20.3.55NA.9.a.i

a person who is, or will on the granting of an application for Part 4A
permission be, a PRA-authorised person, or

20.3.55NA.9.a.ii

a person who is a member of a group which includes a PRA-authorised person;

20.3.55NA.9.b

the Gibraltar regulator (within the meaning of Schedule 2A) before giving
permission under this section to, or before varying or cancelling permission
under this section given to, a Gibraltar-based person.

20.3.55NA.10

Subsection (9)(b) does not apply in a case where the FCA varies or cancels
permission of a Gibraltar-based person in exercise of its power under
subsection (5)(b), but the FCA must inform the Gibraltar regulator in writing
of the variation or cancellation.

20.3.55NA.11

Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply if the giving of approval falls within an
exemption conferred by regulations made under section 55NB.

20.3.55NA.12

Nothing in this section limits any other power under this Act to impose
requirements in relation to approvals given for the purposes of section 21 so
far as those requirements are additional to the requirement imposed by
subsection (1) of this section (but any such other requirement that is
inconsistent with the requirement imposed by that subsection is of no effect
to the extent of that inconsistency).

############ Section 55NA: power to provide for exemptions

20.3.55NB

20.3.55NB.1

The Treasury may by regulations provide for exemptions from the requirement
imposed by section 55NA(1) not to give approvals for the purposes of section
21 without permission.

20.3.55NB.2

Regulations under subsection (1) may provide for an exemption to have effect—

20.3.55NB.2.a

in respect of specified persons;

20.3.55NB.2.b

in respect of persons falling within a specified class;

20.3.55NB.2.c

in respect of approval given in relation to activities of a specified
description;

20.3.55NB.2.d

only in specified circumstances;

20.3.55NB.2.e

subject to specified conditions.

20.3.55NB.3

In this section “ specified ” means specified in regulations under this
section.

20.4

Schedule 5 contains amendments related to this section.

20.5

The amendments made by this section and Schedule 5—

20.5.a

apply to an authorised person whether the person became authorised before or
after the coming into force of this section;

20.5.b

do not affect the approval of a communication given before the coming into
force of this section.

##### Sustainability disclosure requirements

###### Sustainability disclosure requirements

21

21.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

21.2

After section 416 insert—

############ Sustainability disclosure requirements

############# SDR policy statement

21.2.416A

21.2.416A.1

The Treasury may prepare an SDR policy statement.

21.2.416A.2

An “SDR policy statement” is a statement of the policies of His Majesty’s
Government concerning disclosure requirements in connection with matters
relating to sustainability.

21.2.416A.3

In preparing an SDR policy statement, the Treasury must consult the
regulators.

21.2.416A.4

The Treasury must publish any SDR policy statement in such manner as they
consider appropriate.

21.2.416A.5

The Treasury—

21.2.416A.5.a

must keep any SDR policy statement under review;

21.2.416A.5.b

may prepare a revised statement (and subsections (3) and (4) apply in relation
to any revised statement);

21.2.416A.5.c

may withdraw any SDR policy statement.

21.2.416A.6

The Treasury may request a regulator to provide them with a report on any
matter that the Treasury require in connection with the preparation of an SDR
policy statement.

21.2.416A.7

A request for a report under subsection (6)—

21.2.416A.7.a

must be made in writing, and

21.2.416A.7.b

may require a regulator to send the report to the Treasury within such
reasonable period as may be specified in the request (or such other period as
may be agreed).

21.2.416A.8

A regulator must comply with a request under subsection (6).

21.2.416A.9

Nothing in section 348, or in regulations made under section 349, is to be
taken as preventing or restricting the ability of a regulator to disclose
information to the Treasury for the purposes of this section.

21.2.416A.10

Subsection (9) does not apply in relation to information provided to a
regulator by a regulatory authority outside the United Kingdom.

############# FCA and PRA rules etc

21.2.416B

21.2.416B.1

When making rules or issuing guidance in connection with disclosure concerning
matters relating to sustainability, a regulator must have regard to any SDR
policy statement (within the meaning of section 416A) that the Treasury have
published and not withdrawn.

21.2.416B.2

For the purposes of this section, matters relating to sustainability include
matters relating to—

21.2.416B.2.a

the environment, including climate change,

21.2.416B.2.b

social, community and human rights issues,

21.2.416B.2.c

tackling corruption and bribery, and

21.2.416B.2.d

governance, so far as relevant to matters within paragraphs (a) to (c).

21.3

In Schedule 1ZA (the Financial Conduct Authority), in paragraph 11 (annual
report), in sub-paragraph (1)—

21.3.a

after paragraph (ha) insert—

21.3.a.hc

how it has satisfied the requirement in section 138EA(2) so far as regarding
disclosure requirements in connection with matters relating to sustainability;

;

21.3.b

after paragraph (ia) insert—

21.3.b.ib

how it has satisfied the requirement in section 416B to have regard to any SDR
policy statement of the Treasury published and not withdrawn under section
416A (sustainability disclosure requirements: policy statement);

.

21.4

In Schedule 1ZB (the Prudential Regulation Authority), in paragraph 19 (annual
report), in sub-paragraph (1)—

21.4.a

after paragraph (e) insert—

21.4.a.ea

how it has satisfied the requirement in section 138EA(2) so far as regarding
disclosure requirements in connection with matters relating to sustainability;

;

21.4.b

after paragraph (fa) insert—

21.4.b.fb

how it has satisfied the requirement in section 416B to have regard to any SDR
policy statement of the Treasury under section 416A (sustainability disclosure
requirements: policy statement), and

.

##### Digital settlement assets

###### Digital settlement assets

22

In Schedule 6, which provides for the regulation of digital settlement assets—

22.a

Part 1 extends Part 5 of the Banking Act 2009 (Bank of England oversight of
payment systems) to payment systems using digital settlement assets and DSA
service providers, and makes consequential provision;

22.b

Part 2 extends Part 5 of the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013
(regulation of payment systems) to payment systems using digital settlement
assets.

###### Digital settlement assets: power to make regulations

23

23.1

The Treasury may by regulations make such provision as they consider
appropriate for the purpose of, or in connection with—

23.1.a

the regulation of payments that include digital settlement assets,

23.1.b

the regulation of—

23.1.b.i

recognised payment systems that include arrangements using digital settlement
assets,

23.1.b.ii

recognised DSA service providers, and

23.1.b.iii

service providers connected with, or in relation to, the systems and providers
mentioned in sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii),

as those terms are for the time being defined in Part 5 of the Banking Act
2009, and

23.1.c

making insolvency arrangements (including administration, restructuring and
any similar procedure) in respect of the systems and providers mentioned in
paragraph (b).

23.2

In this section, “ digital settlement asset ” means a digital representation
of value or rights, whether or not cryptographically secured, that—

23.2.a

can be used for the settlement of payment obligations,

23.2.b

can be transferred, stored or traded electronically, and

23.2.c

uses technology supporting the recording or storage of data (which may include
distributed ledger technology).

23.3

The provision that may be made by regulations under this section includes
provision—

23.3.a

applying legislation relating to the regulation of electronic money and
payments to digital settlement assets (subject to whatever modifications the
Treasury consider appropriate);

23.3.b

applying legislation relating to insolvency arrangements and interactions
between different arrangements to the systems and providers mentioned in
subsection (1) (subject to whatever modifications the Treasury consider
appropriate);

23.3.c

conferring powers on the Treasury (including a power to legislate);

23.3.d

conferring powers, or imposing duties, on a relevant regulator (including a
power to make rules or other instruments);

23.3.e

about fees or other charges payable to a relevant regulator;

23.3.f

about recognition orders and recognition criteria in Part 5 of the Banking Act
2009;

23.3.g

about the enforcement of obligations arising under or by virtue of the
regulations;

23.3.h

about appeals in respect of decisions made under or by virtue of the
regulations;

23.3.i

about the sharing of information.

23.4

Provision under subsection (3)(g) may include provision creating offences
punishable on summary conviction—

23.4.a

in England and Wales, with imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or a
fine, or both;

23.4.b

in Scotland and Northern Ireland, with imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3
months or a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale, or both.

23.5

The power to make regulations under this section includes power to modify
legislation.

23.6

The power under subsection (5) includes power to modify the definition of
“digital settlement asset” in subsection (2).

23.7

Regulations under this section are—

23.7.a

subject to the affirmative procedure, or

23.7.b

if the Treasury consider it necessary for the regulations to come into force
without delay, subject to the made affirmative procedure.

23.8

Before making regulations under this section, the Treasury must consult—

23.8.a

the FCA,

23.8.b

the Bank of England, and

23.8.c

in relation to regulations that refer to the PRA or to the Payment Systems
Regulator, those bodies.

23.9

Where regulations under this section are subject to the made affirmative
procedure the statutory instrument containing them must be laid before
Parliament after being made.

23.10

Regulations contained in a statutory instrument laid before Parliament under
subsection (9) cease to have effect at the end of the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the instrument is made unless, during that
period, the instrument is approved by a resolution of each House of
Parliament.

23.11

In calculating the period of 28 days, no account is to be taken of any whole
days that fall within a period during which—

23.11.a

Parliament is dissolved or prorogued, or

23.11.b

either House of Parliament is adjourned for more than four days.

23.12

If regulations cease to have effect as a result of subsection (10), that does
not—

23.12.a

affect the validity of anything previously done under the regulations, or

23.12.b

prevent the making of new regulations.

23.13

In this section—

“ legislation ” means primary legislation, subordinate legislation and
assimilated direct   legislation; “ relevant regulator ” means— the FCA, the
Bank of England, or the Payment Systems Regulator.

##### Mutual recognition

###### Implementation of mutual recognition agreements

24

24.1

The Treasury may by regulations make such provision as they consider
appropriate for the purpose of, or in connection with, implementing any mutual
recognition agreement to which the United Kingdom is, or is expected to
become, a party.

24.2

The reference in subsection (1) to a “ mutual recognition agreement ” is a
reference to any international agreement so far as it provides for, or relates
to—

24.2.a

the recognition that the law and practice of a foreign country is, in respect
of relevant matters, equivalent to the law and practice of the United Kingdom,
and

24.2.b

the recognition that the law and practice of the United Kingdom is, in respect
of relevant matters, equivalent to the law and practice of that foreign
country.

24.3

Matters are “ relevant matters ” for the purposes of subsection (2) if they
relate to financial services or markets (whether generally or in particular
respects).

24.4

The provision that may be made by regulations under this section includes
provision—

24.4.a

conferring powers on the Treasury (including a power to legislate);

24.4.b

conferring powers, or imposing duties, on a relevant regulator (including a
power to make rules or other instruments);

24.4.c

about fees or other charges payable to a relevant regulator;

24.4.d

about the enforcement of obligations arising under or by virtue of the
regulations;

24.4.e

about appeals in respect of decisions made under or by virtue of the
regulations;

24.4.f

about the sharing of information.

24.5

The reference in this section to a mutual recognition agreement to which the
United Kingdom is, or is expected to become, a party includes a reference to
such an agreement as modified or supplemented from time to time.

24.6

The power to make regulations under this section includes power to modify
legislation.

24.7

Before making provision under subsection (4)(b) that imposes a duty on a
relevant regulator the Treasury must consult the regulator.

24.8

Provision under subsection (4)(b) that imposes a duty on a relevant regulator
to make rules may (among other things)—

24.8.a

specify matters that the rules must cover;

24.8.b

specify a period within which the rules must be made.

24.9

But except so far as permitted by subsection (8), such provision may not
require rules to be made in a specified form or with specified content.

24.10

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

24.11

In this section—

“ foreign country ” means a country or territory outside the United Kingdom; “
legislation ” means primary legislation, subordinate legislation and
assimilated direct   legislation; “ relevant regulator ” means— the FCA, the
PRA, or the Bank of England; “ specified ” means specified in regulations
under this section.

#### Accountability of regulators

##### FCA and PRA objectives and regulatory principles

###### Competitiveness and growth objective

25

25.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

25.2

In section 1B (FCA’s general duties), after subsection (4) insert—

25.2.4A

When discharging its general functions in the way mentioned in subsection (1)
the FCA must, so far as reasonably possible, act in a way which, as a
secondary objective, advances the competitiveness and growth objective (see
section 1EB).

25.3

After section 1E insert—

############ Competitiveness and growth objective

25.3.1EB

The competitiveness and growth objective is: facilitating, subject to aligning
with relevant international standards—

25.3.1EB.a

the international competitiveness of the economy of the United Kingdom
(including in particular the financial services sector), and

25.3.1EB.b

its growth in the medium to long term.

25.4

In section 2H—

25.4.a

in the title, for “competition objective” substitute  “objectives” ;

25.4.b

for subsection (1) substitute—

25.4.b.1

When discharging its general functions in a way that advances its objectives
(see section 2F), the PRA must, so far as reasonably possible, act in a way
that advances the following secondary objectives—

25.4.b.1.a

the competition objective, and

25.4.b.1.b

the competitiveness and growth objective.

25.4.b.1A

The competition objective is: facilitating effective competition in the
markets for services provided by PRA-authorised persons in carrying on
regulated activities.

25.4.b.1B

The competitiveness and growth objective is: facilitating, subject to aligning
with relevant international standards—

25.4.b.1B.a

the international competitiveness of the economy of the United Kingdom
(including in particular the financial services sector through the
contribution of PRA-authorised persons), and

25.4.b.1B.b

its growth in the medium to long term.

###### Competitiveness and growth objective: reporting requirements

26

26.1

Each regulator must make two reports to the Treasury on how it has complied
with its duty to advance the competitiveness and growth objective.

26.2

The reports prepared by each regulator under subsection (1) must in particular
explain—

26.2.a

the action taken by the regulator to ensure that the competitiveness and
growth objective is embedded in its operations, processes and decision-making,
and

26.2.b

how any rules and guidance that the regulator has made advance that objective.

26.3

The first report under this section must be made before the end of 12 months
beginning with the first day on which section 25 of this Act comes into force,
and must relate to that period.

26.4

The second report under this section must be made before the end of 24 months
beginning with the first day on which section 25 of this Act comes into force,
and must relate to the period beginning with the day on which the first report
is published.

26.5

The Treasury must lay a copy of each report prepared under this section before
Parliament.

26.6

Each regulator must publish its reports prepared under this section in such
manner as it thinks fit.

26.7

In this section—

26.7.a

“ regulator ” means the FCA and the PRA;

26.7.b

references to the competitiveness and growth objective, and the duty to
advance that objective, are—

26.7.b.i

in relation to the FCA, references to its objective in section 1EB of FSMA
2000 and to its duty to advance that objective under section 1B(4A) of that
Act, and

26.7.b.ii

in relation to the PRA, references to its objective in section 2H(1B) of FSMA
2000 and to its duty to advance that objective under section 2H(1)(b) of that
Act.

###### Regulatory principles

27

In section 3B of FSMA 2000 (regulatory principles to be applied by both
regulators), in subsection (1) for paragraph (c) substitute—

27.c

the need to contribute towards achieving compliance by the Secretary of State
with section 1 of the Climate Change Act 2008 (UK net zero emissions target)
and section 5 of the Environment Act 2021 (environmental targets) where each
regulator considers the exercise of its functions to be relevant to the making
of such a contribution;

.

###### Sections 25 and 27: consequential amendments

28

28.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

28.2

In section 1JA (Treasury recommendations in connection with general duties),
after subsection (1)(c) insert—

28.2.ca

how to discharge the duty in section 1B(4A) (duty to advance competitiveness
and growth objective),

.

28.3

In section 1K (guidance about objectives), after subsection (1) insert—

28.3.1A

The reference in subsection (1) to the FCA’s operational objectives includes,
in its application as a secondary objective, the competitiveness and growth
objective (see section 1EB).

28.4

In section 2I (guidance about objectives), after subsection (1) insert—

28.4.1A

The reference in subsection (1) to the PRA’s objectives includes, in their
application as secondary objectives, the competition objective and
competitiveness and growth objective (see section 2H).

28.5

In section 3B (regulatory principles to be applied by both regulators), for
subsection (3) substitute—

28.5.3

“Objectives”—

28.5.3.a

in relation to the FCA means—

28.5.3.a.i

operational objectives, and

28.5.3.a.ii

in its application as a secondary objective, the competitiveness and growth
objective (see section 1EB), and

28.5.3.b

in relation to the PRA means—

28.5.3.b.i

the PRA’s objectives, and

28.5.3.b.ii

in their application as secondary objectives, the competition objective and
competitiveness and growth objective (see section 2H).

28.6

In section 3D (duty of FCA and PRA to ensure co-ordinated exercise of
functions), for subsection (4) substitute—

28.6.4

In this section, “objectives”—

28.6.4.a

in relation to the FCA means—

28.6.4.a.i

operational objectives, and

28.6.4.a.ii

in its application as a secondary objective, the competitiveness and growth
objective (see section 1EB), and

28.6.4.b

in relation to the PRA means—

28.6.4.b.i

the PRA’s objectives, and

28.6.4.b.ii

in their application as secondary objectives, the competition objective and
competitiveness and growth objective (see section 2H).

28.6.5

Where a regulator is proposing to exercise a function that is not one of its
general functions, the reference to “objectives” in subsection (1)(a) does not
include the secondary objectives mentioned in subsection (4)(a)(ii) and
(b)(ii).

28.6.6

In this section, “general functions”—

28.6.6.a

in relation to the FCA, has the same meaning as in section 1B(6), and

28.6.6.b

in relation to the PRA, has the same meaning as in section 2J(1).

28.7

In section 138I (consultation by the FCA), in subsection (2)(d) after “1B(1)”
insert  “, (4A)” .

28.8

In section 143G (matters to consider when making Part 9C rules)—

28.8.a

in subsection (1)—

28.8.a.i

insert  “and”  after paragraph (a), and

28.8.a.ii

omit paragraphs (b) and (c);

28.8.b

omit subsection (2).

28.9

In section 232A (scheme operator’s duty to provide information to FCA)—

28.9.a

the existing words become subsection (1), and

28.9.b

after that subsection insert—

28.9.b.2

The reference in subsection (1) to the FCA’s operational objectives includes,
in its application as a secondary objective, the competitiveness and growth
objective (see section 1EB).

28.10

In paragraph 11 of Schedule 1ZA (FCA annual report), in sub-paragraph (1)
after paragraph (d) insert—

28.10.da

how, in its opinion, it has complied with the duty in section 1B(4A),

.

28.11

In paragraph 20 of Schedule 1ZB (consultation about PRA annual report), in
sub-paragraph (1)(c) for “and the PRA has facilitated effective competition in
accordance with” substitute  “including its secondary objectives under” .

##### FCA and PRA powers to make rules etc

###### Review of rules

29

29.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

29.2

After section 3R (arrangements for provision of services) insert—

############ Rules

############# Duty of FCA and PRA to review rules

29.2.3RA

29.2.3RA.1

Each regulator must keep under review generally any rules made by the
regulator under this Act or any other enactment (whenever passed or made).

29.2.3RA.2

Subsection  (1)  does not apply to rules made for the purpose of complying
with a direction or recommendation of the Financial Policy Committee of the
Bank of England under—

29.2.3RA.2.a

section 9H of the Bank of England Act 1998 (directions to FCA or PRA requiring
macro-prudential measures), or

29.2.3RA.2.b

section 9Q of that Act (recommendations to FCA and PRA).

############# Statement of policy relating to review of rules

29.2.3RB

29.2.3RB.1

Each regulator must prepare and publish a statement of its policy with respect
to its review of rules under section 3RA.

29.2.3RB.2

The statement must provide information about—

29.2.3RB.2.a

how representations (including by a statutory panel) can be made to each
regulator with respect to its review of rules under section 3RA, and

29.2.3RB.2.b

the arrangements to ensure that those representations are considered.

29.2.3RB.3

In this section “ statutory panel ” has the meaning given by section 1RB(5).

29.2.3RB.4

If a statement published under this section is altered or replaced by a
regulator, the regulator must publish the altered or replaced statement.

29.2.3RB.5

A statement prepared under this section must be published by the regulator in
the way appearing to that regulator to be best designed to bring it to the
attention of the public.

############# Requirement to review specified rules

29.2.3RC

29.2.3RC.1

The Treasury may by direction require a regulator to carry out a review of
specified rules if—

29.2.3RC.1.a

the rules have been in force for at least 12 months,

29.2.3RC.1.b

the Treasury consider that it is in the public interest that the rules are
reviewed, and

29.2.3RC.1.c

it does not appear to the Treasury that—

29.2.3RC.1.c.i

the regulator is carrying out, or proposes to carry out, a review of those
rules, or

29.2.3RC.1.c.ii

if the regulator proposes to carry out a review, the proposals are appropriate
for the purposes of carrying out an effective review.

29.2.3RC.2

Subsection (1) only applies to rules falling within section 3RA(1).

29.2.3RC.3

The Treasury must consult the regulator concerned before giving a direction
under subsection (1).

29.2.3RC.4

In exercising the power under this section, the Treasury must have regard to
the desirability of minimising any adverse effect that the carrying out of the
review may have on the exercise by the regulator of any of its other
functions.

29.2.3RC.5

A direction under subsection (1) may—

29.2.3RC.5.a

specify the period within which a review must be carried out;

29.2.3RC.5.b

determine the scope and conduct of a review;

29.2.3RC.5.c

require the provision of interim reports during the carrying out of a review.

29.2.3RC.6

Provision made in a direction under subsection (5)(b) may include a
requirement—

29.2.3RC.6.a

for a review to be carried out by a person appointed by the regulator who is
independent of the regulator;

29.2.3RC.6.b

for any such appointment to be made only with the approval of the Treasury.

29.2.3RC.7

As soon as practicable after giving a direction under subsection (1) the
Treasury must—

29.2.3RC.7.a

lay before Parliament a copy of the direction, and

29.2.3RC.7.b

publish the direction in such manner as the Treasury think fit.

29.2.3RC.8

Subsection (7) does not apply where the Treasury consider that publication of
the direction would be against the public interest.

29.2.3RC.9

A direction under subsection (1) may be varied or revoked by the giving of a
further direction.

############# Report on certain reviews

29.2.3RD

29.2.3RD.1

This section applies where the Treasury have given a direction to a regulator
under section 3RC(1) to carry out a review.

29.2.3RD.2

The regulator must make a written report to the Treasury as to the opinion of
the regulator in relation to the following matters—

29.2.3RD.2.a

if the regulator is the FCA, whether the rules under review—

29.2.3RD.2.a.i

are compatible with the FCA’s strategic objective,

29.2.3RD.2.a.ii

advance one or more of the FCA’s operational objectives, and

29.2.3RD.2.a.iii

advance the competitiveness and growth objective;

29.2.3RD.2.b

if the regulator is the PRA, whether the rules under review—

29.2.3RD.2.b.i

advance one or more of the PRA’s objectives, and

29.2.3RD.2.b.ii

advance the PRA’s competition objective and the PRA’s competitiveness and
growth objective;

29.2.3RD.2.c

whether and to what extent the rules are functioning effectively and achieving
their intended purpose;

29.2.3RD.2.d

whether any amendments should be made to the rules and, if so, what those
amendments should be;

29.2.3RD.2.e

whether any rules should be revoked (with or without replacement);

29.2.3RD.2.f

whether any other action should be taken and, if so, what that action should
be.

29.2.3RD.3

As soon as practicable after receiving the report the Treasury must—

29.2.3RD.3.a

lay before Parliament a copy of the report, and

29.2.3RD.3.b

publish the report in such manner as the Treasury think fit.

29.2.3RD.4

When complying with subsection (3) the Treasury may withhold material from the
report if the Treasury consider that publication of the material would be
against the public interest.

###### Treasury power in relation to rules

30

30.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

30.2

After section 3RD (inserted by section 29) insert—

############ Power of Treasury to require making of rules by regulations

30.2.3RE

30.2.3RE.1

The Treasury may by regulations require a regulator to exercise a power under
this Act to make rules in relation to a specified activity or a specified
description of person.

30.2.3RE.2

Regulations under this section may—

30.2.3RE.2.a

specify matters that the rules must cover;

30.2.3RE.2.b

specify a period within which the rules must be made.

30.2.3RE.3

But except so far as permitted by subsection (2), regulations under this
section may not require rules to be made—

30.2.3RE.3.a

in a specified form or with specified content, or

30.2.3RE.3.b

to achieve or advance a specified outcome.

30.2.3RE.4

If no period is specified under subsection (2)(b) the rules must be made as
soon as reasonably practicable after the coming into force of the regulations.

30.3

In section 429 (Parliamentary control of statutory instruments) in subsection
(2) after “section” insert  “3RE,” .

###### Matters to consider when making rules

31

31.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

31.2

Before section 138F (under the italic heading “Procedural provisions”) insert—

############ Matters to consider when making rules

31.2.138EA

31.2.138EA.1

This section applies where either regulator proposes to make rules.

31.2.138EA.2

The regulator must have regard to any specified matters that are relevant to
the making of the rules in question.

31.2.138EA.3

“ Specified ” means specified in regulations made by the Treasury for the
purposes of this section.

31.2.138EA.4

The specification of a matter for the purposes of this section may apply
generally to the making of rules or be limited in whatever way the Treasury
consider appropriate, including by reference to—

31.2.138EA.4.a

the power under which the rules are made;

31.2.138EA.4.b

the persons to whom the rules apply;

31.2.138EA.4.c

the activities or subject-matter to which the rules relate.

31.2.138EA.5

The requirement imposed by subsection (2) does not apply in respect of any
rules if, or to the extent that, the rules are made for the purposes of—

31.2.138EA.5.a

complying with a direction given by the Financial Policy Committee of the Bank
of England under section 9H of the Bank of England Act 1998 (directions
requiring macro-prudential measures), or

31.2.138EA.5.b

acting in accordance with a recommendation made by that Committee under
section 9Q of that Act (recommendations about the exercise of the FCA and PRA
functions).

31.2.138EA.6

The requirement to have regard to specified matters under this section when
making rules is in addition to any other requirements to have regard to
matters when making such rules imposed by another provision of this Act or by
any other enactment.

31.3

In section 138I (consultation by the FCA)—

31.3.a

in subsection (2) after paragraph (b) insert—

31.3.a.ba

an explanation of the ways in which having regard to specified matters under
section 138EA(2) has affected the proposed rules,

;

31.3.b

after subsection (8) insert—

31.3.b.8A

The requirement to provide the explanation referred to in subsection (2)(ba)
does not apply in relation to any rules if—

31.3.b.8A.a

the FCA considers that the delay involved in complying with that requirement
would be prejudicial to the interests of consumers (as defined in section
425A) or other persons whose interests would be protected by the rules, or

31.3.b.8A.b

the rules change existing rules and the changes consist of, or include,
changes which, in the FCA’s opinion, are not material.

31.3.b.8B

Where an explanation is not provided by virtue of subsection (8A)(b), the
draft of the rules must be accompanied by a statement of the FCA’s opinion.

31.4

In section 138J (consultation by the PRA)—

31.4.a

in subsection (2) after paragraph (b) insert—

31.4.a.ba

an explanation of the ways in which having regard to specified matters under
section 138EA(2) has affected the proposed rules,

;

31.4.b

after subsection (8) insert—

31.4.b.8A

The requirement to provide the explanation referred to in subsection (2)(ba)
does not apply in relation to any rules if—

31.4.b.8A.a

the PRA considers that the delay involved in complying with that requirement
would—

31.4.b.8A.a.i

be prejudicial to the safety and soundness of PRA-authorised persons, or

31.4.b.8A.a.ii

in a case where section 2C applies, be prejudicial to securing the appropriate
degree of protection for policyholders, or

31.4.b.8A.b

the rules change existing rules and the changes consist of, or include,
changes which, in the PRA’s opinion, are not material.

31.4.b.8B

Where an explanation is not provided by virtue of subsection (8A)(b), the
draft of the rules must be accompanied by a statement of the PRA’s opinion.

31.5

In section 429 (Parliamentary procedure for statutory instruments), in
subsection (2), in the list of sections beginning with “90B” insert at the
appropriate place  “138EA(3),” .

###### Effect of rules etc on deference decisions

32

32.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

32.2

In the italic heading before section 410, after “international” insert
“powers and” .

32.3

Before section 410 insert—

############ Consultation in relation to deference decisions

32.3.409A

32.3.409A.1

This section applies where a regulator is proposing to take a relevant action.

32.3.409A.2

The regulator—

32.3.409A.2.a

must consider the effect of the relevant action on notified deference
decisions, and

32.3.409A.2.b

if having done so it appears to the regulator that there is a material risk
that the relevant action would be incompatible with a notified deference
decision, must consult the Treasury about the likely effect of the action on
the decision.

32.3.409A.3

Subsection (2) applies only if a duty to consult applies in respect of the
taking of the relevant action.

32.3.409A.4

For the purposes of subsection  (1)  a regulator proposes to take a “relevant
action” if—

32.3.409A.4.a

it proposes to make rules under this Act or any other enactment, or

32.3.409A.4.b

it proposes to make changes to its general policies and practices so far as
relating to its supervisory functions under section 1L (FCA supervisory
functions) or (as the case may be) section 2K (PRA supervisory functions).

32.3.409A.5

For the purposes of subsection  (2) —

32.3.409A.5.a

“ deference decision ” means a decision of the Treasury that the law and
practice of another country or territory is, so far as relating to financial
services and markets, equivalent to the law and practice of the United Kingdom
(either generally or as it relates to a particular matter);

32.3.409A.5.b

a deference decision is a “notified deference decision” if the Treasury have,
by notice in writing, informed the regulator that it is relevant for the
purposes of this section;

32.3.409A.5.c

a relevant action is “incompatible” with a notified deference decision if the
action would result in the law and practice of the United Kingdom ceasing to
be equivalent to the law and practice of the other country or territory to
which the deference decision relates.

32.3.409A.6

For the purposes of subsection (3) a duty to consult applies in respect of a
relevant action if—

32.3.409A.6.a

the duty imposed by section 138I or 138J to publish a draft of proposed rules
applies in respect of the action, or

32.3.409A.6.b

any other duty (whether or not imposed by a provision of this Act) to publish
the proposal to take the action in question applies.

32.3.409A.7

Section 138M(1) (consultation: exemptions for temporary product intervention
rules) is to be ignored for the purposes of subsection (6) in determining
whether a duty to consult applies in respect of a relevant action.

32.3.409A.8

The requirement imposed by subsection (2)(b) must be carried out before the
duty to consult in respect of the relevant action is carried out.

32.3.409A.9

The requirements imposed by subsection (2) do not apply to the extent that the
regulator takes a relevant action—

32.3.409A.9.a

by the making of product intervention rules under section 137D if the
condition in subsection (10) is met,

32.3.409A.9.b

by the making of rules under Part 9C (see instead section 143G(3)),

32.3.409A.9.c

by the making of rules under Part 9D (see instead section 144C(3)),

32.3.409A.9.d

by the making of rules under Part 12B (see instead section 192XB(2)),

32.3.409A.9.e

in order to comply with a direction given by the Financial Policy Committee of
the Bank of England under section 9H of the Bank of England Act 1998
(directions required macro-prudential measures), or

32.3.409A.9.f

in order to act in accordance with a recommendation made by that Committee
under section 9Q of that Act (recommendations about the exercise of
functions).

32.3.409A.10

The condition referred to in subsection (9)(a) is that the FCA considers it
necessary not to comply with the requirement imposed by subsection (2) for the
purpose of advancing—

32.3.409A.10.a

the consumer protection objective, or

32.3.409A.10.b

if an order under section 137D(1)(b) is in force, the integrity objective.

###### Effect of rules etc on international trade obligations

33

In FSMA 2000 after section 409A (inserted by section 32) insert—

########## Notification in relation to international trade obligations

33.409B

33.409B.1

This section applies where it appears to a regulator that there is a material
risk that a relevant action it proposes to take would be incompatible with an
international trade obligation.

33.409B.2

The regulator must give written notice to the Treasury of the proposed action
before proceeding to take it.

33.409B.3

Subsection (2) applies only if a duty to consult applies in respect of the
taking of the relevant action.

33.409B.4

For the purposes of subsection  (1)  a regulator proposes to take a “relevant
action” if—

33.409B.4.a

it proposes to make rules under this Act or any other enactment, or

33.409B.4.b

it proposes to make changes to its general policies and practices so far as
relating to its supervisory functions under section 1L (FCA supervisory
functions) or (as the case may be) section 2K (PRA supervisory function).

33.409B.5

For the purposes of subsection (3) a duty to consult applies in respect of a
relevant action if—

33.409B.5.a

the duty imposed by section 138I or 138J to publish a draft of proposed rules
applies in respect of the action, or

33.409B.5.b

any other duty (whether or not imposed by a provision of this Act) to publish
the proposal to take the action in question applies.

33.409B.6

Section 138M(1) (consultation: exemptions for temporary product intervention
rules) is to be ignored for the purposes of subsection (5) in determining
whether a duty to consult applies in respect of a relevant action.

33.409B.7

The requirement imposed by subsection (2) must be carried out before the duty
to consult in respect of the relevant action is carried out.

33.409B.8

The requirement imposed by subsection (2) does not apply to the extent that
the regulator takes a relevant action—

33.409B.8.a

by the making of product intervention rules under section 137D if the
condition in subsection (9) is met,

33.409B.8.b

in order to comply with a direction given by the Financial Policy Committee of
the Bank of England under section 9H of the Bank of England Act 1998
(directions requiring macro-prudential measures), or

33.409B.8.c

in order to act in accordance with a recommendation made by that Committee
under section 9Q of that Act (recommendations about the exercise of
functions).

33.409B.9

The condition referred to in subsection (8)(a) is that the FCA considers it
necessary not to comply with the requirement imposed by subsection (2) for the
purpose of advancing—

33.409B.9.a

the consumer protection objective, or

33.409B.9.b

if an order under section 137D(1)(b) is in force, the integrity objective.

33.409B.10

Subsection (11) applies in a case where a notice under subsection (2) is not
given because of subsection (3) or (8)(a).

33.409B.11

The regulator must give written notice to the Treasury of the relevant action
it has taken as soon as reasonably practicable after taking it if it appears
to the regulator that there is a material risk that the action is incompatible
with an international trade obligation.

33.409B.12

In this section “ international trade obligation ” means an obligation of the
United Kingdom that relates to financial services or markets under—

33.409B.12.a

a free trade agreement, as defined by section 5(1) of the Trade Act 2021, or

33.409B.12.b

the agreement establishing the World Trade Organisation signed at Marrakesh on
15 April 1994.

###### Power to disapply or modify rules

34

34.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

34.2

After section 138B insert—

############ Disapplication or modification of rules in individual cases

34.2.138BA

34.2.138BA.1

This section applies to rules made by a regulator if, or to the extent that,
regulations made by the Treasury provide for it to apply.

34.2.138BA.2

The regulator may, on the application or with the consent of a person who is
subject to the rules, give the person a permission that enables the person—

34.2.138BA.2.a

not to apply the rules, or

34.2.138BA.2.b

to apply the rules with the modifications specified in the permission.

34.2.138BA.3

Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to—

34.2.138BA.3.a

rules made by either regulator under section 64A (rules of conduct);

34.2.138BA.3.b

rules made by either regulator under section 137O (threshold condition code);

34.2.138BA.3.c

rules made by the FCA under section 247 (trust scheme rules), section 248
(scheme particular rules), section 261I (contractual scheme rules) or section
261J (contractual scheme particulars rules);

34.2.138BA.3.d

rules made by the FCA under section 309Z(1) (rules of conduct).

34.2.138BA.4

The regulator may—

34.2.138BA.4.a

give permission under this section subject to conditions, and

34.2.138BA.4.b

revoke or vary permission given under this section.

34.2.138BA.5

Regulations under subsection (1) may make provision about procedural matters
in relation to the giving of permission under this section.

34.2.138BA.6

Provision under subsection (5) may (among other things) include provision
about—

34.2.138BA.6.a

the making of applications;

34.2.138BA.6.b

the determination of applications (including matters to be taken into account
in doing so);

34.2.138BA.6.c

the giving and withdrawal of consent;

34.2.138BA.6.d

requirements as to notification or publication of decisions of a regulator
under this section;

34.2.138BA.6.e

appeals in respect of decisions of a regulator under this section.

34.2.138BA.7

Before making regulations under this section in relation to rules made by a
regulator the Treasury must consult the regulator.

34.3

In section 429 (Parliamentary control of statutory instruments), in subsection
(2), in the list of sections beginning with “90B” insert at the appropriate
place  “138BA,” .

##### FCA and PRA engagement

###### Responses to recommendations of the Treasury

35

35.1

Section 1JA of FSMA 2000 (recommendations by Treasury in connection with
general duties) is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)  and (3).

35.2

After subsection (2) insert—

35.2.2A

The FCA must respond to each recommendation made to it under subsection (1) by
notifying the Treasury in writing of—

35.2.2A.a

action that the FCA has taken or intends to take in accordance with the
recommendation, or

35.2.2A.b

the reasons why the FCA has not acted or does not intend to act in accordance
with the recommendation.

35.2.2B

The notice under subsection (2A) must be given before the end of 12 months
beginning with the date the notice containing the recommendation was given
under subsection (1).

35.2.2C

Where the FCA has given notice under subsection (2A) in relation to a
recommendation, the FCA must by notice in writing update the Treasury on the
matters mentioned in subsection (2A)(a) and (b) before the end of each
subsequent period of 12 months.

35.2.2D

Subsection (2C) does not apply if the Treasury have notified the FCA in
writing that no update (or further update) is required.

35.2.2E

The FCA is not required under subsection (2A) or (2C) to provide any
information whose publication would in the opinion of the FCA be against the
public interest.

35.3

In subsection (3), for “subsection (1)” substitute  “subsection (1), (2A) or
(2C)” .

35.4

Section 30B of the Bank of England Act 1998 (recommendations by Treasury) is
amended in accordance with subsections  (5)  and (6).

35.5

After subsection (2) insert—

35.5.2A

The Prudential Regulation Committee must respond to each recommendation made
to it under subsection (1) by notifying the Treasury in writing of—

35.5.2A.a

action that the Prudential Regulation Committee has taken or intends to take
in accordance with the recommendation, or

35.5.2A.b

the reasons why the Prudential Regulation Committee has not acted or does not
intend to act in accordance with the recommendation.

35.5.2B

The notice under subsection (2A) must be given before the end of 12 months
beginning with the date the notice containing the recommendation was given
under subsection (1).

35.5.2C

Where the Prudential Regulation Committee has given notice under subsection
(2A) in relation to a recommendation, it must by notice in writing update the
Treasury on the matters mentioned in subsection (2A)(a) and (b) before the end
of each subsequent period of 12 months.

35.5.2D

Subsection (2C) does not apply if the Treasury have notified the Prudential
Regulation Committee in writing that no update (or further update) is
required.

35.5.2E

The Prudential Regulation Committee is not required under subsection (2A) or
(2C) to provide any information whose publication would in the opinion of the
Committee be against the public interest.

35.6

In subsection (3), for “subsection (1)” substitute  “subsection (1), (2A) or
(2C)” .

###### Public consultation requirements

36

36.1

After section 1RA of FSMA 2000 (inserted by section 45) insert—

############ Requirements for public consultation

############# Requirements in connection with public consultations

36.1.1RB

36.1.1RB.1

This section applies where the FCA issues a public consultation.

36.1.1RB.2

The FCA must include information in the consultation about any engagement by
the FCA with the statutory panels of the FCA, the PRA or the Payment Systems
Regulator in relation to the matters being consulted on.

36.1.1RB.3

The FCA is not required under subsection (2) to include any information whose
publication would in the opinion of the FCA be against the public interest.

36.1.1RB.4

For the purposes of this section, the FCA issues a public consultation if it
publishes the draft of any proposals for the purpose of bringing them to the
attention of the public (whether or not under a duty to do so imposed by an
enactment).

36.1.1RB.5

In this section “statutory panel”—

36.1.1RB.5.a

in relation to the FCA, has the meaning given by section 1RA(8),

36.1.1RB.5.b

in relation to the PRA, has the meaning given by section 2NA(8), and

36.1.1RB.5.c

in relation to the Payment Systems Regulator, means a panel established under
section 103(3) of the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013.

36.2

After section 2NA of FSMA 2000 (inserted by section 45) insert—

############ Requirements for public consultation

############# Requirements in connection with public consultations

36.2.2NB

36.2.2NB.1

This section applies where the PRA issues a public consultation.

36.2.2NB.2

The PRA must include information in the consultation about any engagement by
the PRA with the statutory panels of the FCA, the PRA or the Payment Systems
Regulator in relation to the matters being consulted on.

36.2.2NB.3

The PRA is not required under subsection (2) to include any information whose
publication would in the opinion of the PRA be against the public interest.

36.2.2NB.4

For the purposes of this section, the PRA issues a public consultation if it
publishes the draft of any proposals for the purpose of bringing them to the
attention of the public (whether or not under a duty to do so imposed by an
enactment).

36.2.2NB.5

In this section “ statutory panel ” has the meaning given by section 1RB(5).

###### Engagement with statutory panels

37

37.1

Paragraph 11 of Schedule 1ZA to FSMA 2000 (annual report of the Financial
Conduct Authority) is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)  and  (3) .

37.2

In sub-paragraph (1)—

37.2.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (ia), and

37.2.b

after paragraph (ia) insert—

37.2.b.ib

any engagement with the statutory panels of the FCA, the PRA or the Payment
Systems Regulator,

37.2.b.ic

how it has complied with the statement of policy on panel appointments
prepared under section 1RA in relation to the process for making appointments
and the matters considered in determining who is appointed, and

.

37.3

After sub-paragraph (4) insert—

37.3.5

In this paragraph “ statutory panel ” has the meaning given in section 1RB(5).

37.4

Paragraph 19 of Schedule 1ZB to FSMA 2000 (annual report of the PRA) is
amended in accordance with subsections  (5)  and  (6) .

37.5

In sub-paragraph (1)—

37.5.a

after paragraph (ba) insert—

37.5.a.bb

how it has complied with the statement of policy on panel appointments
prepared under section 2NA in relation to the process for making appointments
and the matters considered in determining who is appointed,

,

37.5.b

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (f), and

37.5.c

after paragraph (f) insert—

37.5.c.fa

any engagement with the statutory panels of the FCA, the PRA or the Payment
Systems Regulator, and

.

37.6

After sub-paragraph (5) insert—

37.6.6

In this paragraph “ statutory panel ” has the meaning given in section 1RB(5).

###### Engagement with Parliamentary Committees

38

38.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

38.2

In Part 4 of Schedule 1ZA (miscellaneous provisions relating to Financial
Conduct Authority), after paragraph 27 insert—

############ Engagement with Parliamentary Committees

38.2.28

38.2.28.1

This paragraph applies where the FCA issues a relevant consultation.

38.2.28.2

For the purposes of this paragraph the FCA issues a relevant consultation if
it—

38.2.28.2.a

publishes a draft of proposed rules under section 138I,

38.2.28.2.b

publishes a proposal under a duty imposed by another provision of this Act or
by any other enactment, or

38.2.28.2.c

publishes other proposals about the exercise of any of its general functions.

38.2.28.3

The FCA must, as soon as reasonably practicable after issuing the
consultation, notify in writing the chair of each relevant Parliamentary
Committee that the consultation has been issued.

38.2.28.4

The notification must specify the parts of the consultation (if any) that
address the ways in which the proposals subject to consultation—

38.2.28.4.a

advance the FCA’s operational objectives,

38.2.28.4.b

are compatible with the FCA’s strategic objective,

38.2.28.4.c

demonstrate that the FCA has had regard to the regulatory principles in
section 3B when preparing the proposals, and

38.2.28.4.d

engage with matters to which the FCA must have regard under regulations made
under section 138EA.

38.2.28.5

The reference in sub-paragraph (4)(a) to the FCA’s operational objectives
includes, in its application as a secondary objective, the competitiveness and
growth objective (see section 1EB).

38.2.28.6

The notification must also specify any other part of the consultation which
the FCA considers should be drawn to the attention of the relevant
Parliamentary Committees.

38.2.28.7

References in this paragraph to the relevant Parliamentary Committees are
references to—

38.2.28.7.a

the Treasury Committee of the House of Commons,

38.2.28.7.b

the Committee of the House of Lords which—

38.2.28.7.b.i

is charged with responsibility by that House for the purposes of this
paragraph, and

38.2.28.7.b.ii

has notified the FCA that it is a relevant Parliamentary Committee for those
purposes, and

38.2.28.7.c

the Joint Committee of both Houses which—

38.2.28.7.c.i

is charged with responsibility by those Houses for the purposes of this
paragraph, and

38.2.28.7.c.ii

has notified the FCA that it is a relevant Parliamentary Committee for those
purposes.

38.2.28.8

References in this paragraph to the Treasury Committee of the House of
Commons—

38.2.28.8.a

if the name of that Committee is changed, are references to that Committee by
its new name, and

38.2.28.8.b

if the functions of that Committee (or substantially corresponding functions)
become functions of a different Committee of the House of Commons, are to be
treated as references to the Committee by which the functions are exercisable.

38.2.28.9

Any question arising under sub-paragraph (8) is to be determined by the
Speaker of the House of Commons.

38.2.29

38.2.29.1

This paragraph applies where—

38.2.29.1.a

the FCA issues a public consultation, and

38.2.29.1.b

a Committee of the House of Commons or the House of Lords, or a joint
Committee of both Houses, has provided to the FCA representations in response
to the consultation.

38.2.29.2

For the purposes of this paragraph, the FCA issues a public consultation if it
publishes the draft of any proposals for the purpose of bringing them to the
attention of the public (whether or not under a duty to do so imposed by an
enactment).

38.2.29.3

The FCA must give to the chair of the Committee concerned a written response
to the representations.

38.2.29.4

The duty to respond imposed by sub-paragraph (3) applies only so far as the
FCA would not be under a corresponding duty to do so imposed by another
enactment.

38.2.29.5

The FCA is not required under sub-paragraph (3) to provide any information
whose publication would in the opinion of the FCA be against the public
interest.

38.3

In Part 4 of Schedule 1ZB (miscellaneous provisions relating to the PRA),
after paragraph 35 insert—

############ Engagement with Parliamentary Committees

38.3.36

38.3.36.1

This paragraph applies where the PRA issues a relevant consultation.

38.3.36.2

For the purposes of this paragraph the PRA issues a relevant consultation if
it—

38.3.36.2.a

publishes a draft of proposed rules under section 138J,

38.3.36.2.b

publishes a proposal under a duty imposed by another provision of this Act or
by any other enactment, or

38.3.36.2.c

publishes other proposals about the exercise of any of its general functions.

38.3.36.3

The PRA must, as soon as reasonably practicable after issuing the
consultation, notify in writing the chair of each relevant Parliamentary
Committee that the consultation has been issued.

38.3.36.4

The notification must specify the parts of the consultation (if any) that
address the ways in which the proposals subject to consultation—

38.3.36.4.a

advance the PRA’s objectives,

38.3.36.4.b

demonstrate that the PRA has had regard to the regulatory principles in
section 3B when preparing the proposals, and

38.3.36.4.c

engage with matters to which the PRA must have regard under regulations made
under section 138EA.

38.3.36.5

The reference in sub-paragraph (4)(a) to the PRA’s objectives includes, in
their application as secondary objectives, the competition objective and the
competitiveness and growth objective (see section 2H).

38.3.36.6

The notification must also specify any other part of the consultation which
the PRA considers should be drawn to the attention of the relevant
Parliamentary Committees.

38.3.36.7

References in this paragraph to the relevant Parliamentary Committees are
references to—

38.3.36.7.a

the Treasury Committee of the House of Commons,

38.3.36.7.b

the Committee of the House of Lords which—

38.3.36.7.b.i

is charged with responsibility by that House for the purposes of this
paragraph, and

38.3.36.7.b.ii

has notified the PRA that it is a relevant Parliamentary Committee for those
purposes, and

38.3.36.7.c

the Joint Committee of both Houses which—

38.3.36.7.c.i

is charged with responsibility by those Houses for the purposes of this
paragraph, and

38.3.36.7.c.ii

has notified the PRA that it is a relevant Parliamentary Committee for those
purposes.

38.3.36.8

References in this paragraph to the Treasury Committee of the House of
Commons—

38.3.36.8.a

if the name of that Committee is changed, are references to that Committee by
its new name, and

38.3.36.8.b

if the functions of that Committee (or substantially corresponding functions)
become functions of a different Committee of the House of Commons, are to be
treated as references to the Committee by which the functions are exercisable.

38.3.36.9

Any question arising under sub-paragraph (8) is to be determined by the
Speaker of the House of Commons.

38.3.37

38.3.37.1

This paragraph applies where—

38.3.37.1.a

the PRA issues a public consultation, and

38.3.37.1.b

a Committee of the House of Commons or the House of Lords, or a joint
Committee of both Houses, has provided to the PRA representations in response
to the consultation.

38.3.37.2

For the purposes of this paragraph, the PRA issues a public consultation if it
publishes the draft of any proposals for the purpose of bringing the proposals
to the attention of the public (whether or not under a duty to do so imposed
by an enactment).

38.3.37.3

The PRA must give to the chair of the Committee concerned a written response
to the representations.

38.3.37.4

The duty to respond imposed by sub-paragraph (3) applies only so far as the
PRA would not be under a corresponding duty to do so imposed by another
enactment.

38.3.37.5

The PRA is not required under sub-paragraph (3) to provide any information
whose publication would in the opinion of the PRA be against the public
interest.

##### Reporting requirements

39

39.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

39.2

After paragraph 11 of Schedule 1ZA insert—

########### Other reports

39.2.11A

39.2.11A.1

The Treasury may (subject to this paragraph) at any time by direction require
the FCA to publish a report containing information about—

39.2.11A.1.a

any of the matters mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (ia) of paragraph 11(1);

39.2.11A.1.b

such other matters that the direction may specify.

39.2.11A.2

The Treasury may give a direction under this paragraph requiring information
to be published only if the Treasury consider that—

39.2.11A.2.a

the information is reasonably necessary for the purpose of reviewing and
scrutinising the discharge of the FCA’s functions, and

39.2.11A.2.b

other available information is not sufficient to meet that purpose.

39.2.11A.3

Subject to sub-paragraph (4), the FCA must publish a report prepared under a
direction given under this paragraph in such manner, and within such period,
as the direction may require.

39.2.11A.4

Nothing in this paragraph requires the inclusion in the report of any
information whose publication would be against the public interest.

39.2.11A.5

A direction under this paragraph may not—

39.2.11A.5.a

require a report to be published more than once in each quarter;

39.2.11A.5.b

require the publication of information that is confidential information for
the purposes of Part 23 (see section 348(2)).

39.2.11A.6

The Treasury must consult the FCA before giving a direction under this
paragraph.

39.2.11A.7

In exercising the power under this paragraph, the Treasury must have regard to
the desirability of minimising any adverse effect that the preparation of the
report required in accordance with the direction may have on the exercise by
the FCA of any of its other functions.

39.2.11A.8

The Treasury must—

39.2.11A.8.a

lay before Parliament a copy of a direction given under this paragraph, and

39.2.11A.8.b

publish the direction in such manner as the Treasury think fit.

39.2.11A.9

A direction under this paragraph may be varied or revoked by the giving of a
further direction.

39.3

After paragraph 21 of Schedule 1ZB insert—

########### Other reports

39.3.21A

39.3.21A.1

The Treasury may (subject to this paragraph) at any time by direction require
the PRA to publish a report containing information about—

39.3.21A.1.a

any of the matters mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (f) of paragraph 19(1);

39.3.21A.1.b

such other matters that the direction may specify.

39.3.21A.2

The Treasury may give a direction under this paragraph requiring information
to be published only if the Treasury consider that—

39.3.21A.2.a

the information is reasonably necessary for the purpose of reviewing and
scrutinising the discharge of the PRA’s functions, and

39.3.21A.2.b

other available information is not sufficient to meet that purpose.

39.3.21A.3

Subject to sub-paragraph (4), the PRA must publish a report prepared under a
direction given under this paragraph in such manner, and within such period,
as the direction may require.

39.3.21A.4

Nothing in this paragraph requires the inclusion in the report of any
information whose publication would be against the public interest.

39.3.21A.5

A direction under this paragraph may not—

39.3.21A.5.a

require a report to be published more than once in each quarter;

39.3.21A.5.b

require the publication of information that is confidential information for
the purposes of Part 23 (see section 348(2)).

39.3.21A.6

The Treasury must consult the PRA before giving a direction under this
paragraph.

39.3.21A.7

In exercising the power under this paragraph, the Treasury must have regard to
the desirability of minimising any adverse effect that the preparation of the
report required in accordance with the direction may have on the exercise by
the PRA of any of its other functions.

39.3.21A.8

The Treasury must—

39.3.21A.8.a

lay before Parliament a copy of a direction given under this paragraph, and

39.3.21A.8.b

publish the direction in such manner as the Treasury think fit.

39.3.21A.9

A direction under this paragraph may be varied or revoked by the giving of a
further direction.

##### Co-operation of FCA and others

###### Duty to co-operate and consult in exercising functions

40

40.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

40.2

In the italic heading before section 415B, at the end insert  “and co-
operation” .

40.3

After section 415B (consultation) insert—

############ Co-operation and consultation in relation to exercise of functions

40.3.415C

40.3.415C.1

In exercising its functions under this Act a relevant organisation (“ R ”)
must—

40.3.415C.1.a

take such steps as R considers appropriate to co-operate with each of the
other relevant organisations in relation to matters of interest to that
organisation, and

40.3.415C.1.b

consult such other persons as R considers appropriate in relation to any
matters that R considers to be of interest to those persons.

40.3.415C.2

A matter is of interest to another relevant organisation for the purposes of
subsection (1) if it appears to R that it has, or is likely to have,
significant implications in relation to—

40.3.415C.2.a

the exercise by that other relevant organisation of functions under this Act,
or

40.3.415C.2.b

the functioning generally of relevant markets within the meaning of section
1F.

40.3.415C.3

The relevant organisations must prepare and publish a statement of policy with
respect to compliance with the duty under subsection (1).

40.3.415C.4

The relevant organisations may alter or replace a statement published under
subsection (3).

40.3.415C.5

The relevant organisations must publish a statement as altered or replaced
under subsection (4).

40.3.415C.6

The relevant organisations—

40.3.415C.6.a

must, at least once a year, prepare and publish a report on their compliance
with the duty under subsection (1), and

40.3.415C.6.b

must put in place arrangements enabling representations to be made about their
compliance with that duty (whether by seeking representations in response to
the report or otherwise).

40.3.415C.7

Except in the case of the first report to be prepared under this section, a
report prepared under subsection (6)(a) must include a summary of
representations received in the preceding year in accordance with arrangements
made under subsection (6)(b).

40.3.415C.8

Publication under this section is to be made in such manner as the relevant
organisations consider best designed to bring the publication to the attention
of the public.

40.3.415C.9

In this section “ relevant organisation ” means—

40.3.415C.9.a

the FCA;

40.3.415C.9.b

the scheme operator of the ombudsman scheme within the meaning of section
225(2);

40.3.415C.9.c

the scheme manager of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme within the
meaning of section 212.

##### Panels and policy statements

###### Listing Authority Advisory Panel

41

In FSMA 2000, after section 1Q insert—

########## The Listing Authority Advisory Panel

41.1QA

41.1QA.1

Arrangements under section 1M must include the establishment and maintenance
of a panel of persons (to be known as “ the Listing Authority Advisory Panel
”) to represent the interests of practitioners who are likely to be affected
by the exercise by the FCA of its relevant functions.

41.1QA.2

The reference in subsection (1) to the FCA’s relevant functions is to its
functions relating to the listing, issue or trading of products on recognised
investment exchanges and other markets the operation of which is regulated by
the FCA, including in particular—

41.1QA.2.a

the issuing of transferable securities, and

41.1QA.2.b

the trading of transferable securities on regulated markets and multilateral
trading facilities.

41.1QA.3

The FCA must appoint one of the members of the Listing Authority Advisory
Panel to be the chair of the Panel.

41.1QA.4

The Treasury’s approval is required for the appointment or dismissal of the
chair.

41.1QA.5

The FCA must appoint to the Listing Authority Advisory Panel such persons to
represent the interests of issuers and investors as it considers appropriate.

41.1QA.6

The FCA may appoint to the Listing Authority Advisory Panel such other persons
as it considers appropriate.

41.1QA.7

Subsections (5) and (6) are subject to section 1MA.

41.1QA.8

In this section—

      “ multilateral trading facility ”, “ recognised investment exchange ”
and “ regulated markets ” have the same meaning as in Part 18 (see section
313(1));           “ transferable securities ” has the meaning given by
section 102A(3).

###### Insurance Practitioner Panel

42

In FSMA 2000, after section 2M insert—

########## The Insurance Practitioner Panel

42.2MA

42.2MA.1

Arrangements under section 2L must include the establishment and maintenance
of a panel of persons (to be known as “ the Insurance Practitioner Panel ”) to
represent the interests of practitioners involved in the carrying on of the
activity of effecting or carrying out of contracts of insurance.

42.2MA.2

The PRA must appoint one of the members of the Insurance Practitioner Panel to
be the chair of the Panel.

42.2MA.3

The Treasury’s approval is required for the appointment or dismissal of the
chair.

42.2MA.4

The PRA must appoint to the Insurance Practitioner Panel at least one person
representing PRA-authorised persons engaged in the activity of effecting or
carrying out of contracts of insurance.

42.2MA.5

The PRA may appoint to the Insurance Practitioner Panel such other persons as
it considers appropriate.

42.2MA.6

Subsections (4) and (5) are subject to section 2LA.

###### Cost Benefit Analysis Panels

43

43.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

43.2

After section 138I insert—

############ FCA Cost Benefit Analysis Panel

43.2.138IA

43.2.138IA.1

The FCA must establish and maintain a panel of persons (to be known as the “
FCA Cost Benefit Analysis Panel ”) to provide advice in relation to cost
benefit analyses for the purposes of section 138I.

43.2.138IA.2

Except as provided by subsection (3), the FCA must consult the FCA Cost
Benefit Analysis Panel about the following matters—

43.2.138IA.2.a

the preparation of a cost benefit analysis under section 138I(2)(a) or (5)(a);

43.2.138IA.2.b

the preparation of its statement of policy under section 138IB.

43.2.138IA.3

The requirement to consult under subsection (2)(a) does not apply in such
cases as may be set out in the statement of policy maintained under section
138IB.

43.2.138IA.4

Arrangements made by the FCA under subsection (1) for the establishment and
maintenance of the FCA Cost Benefit Analysis Panel must include arrangements
for the Panel to—

43.2.138IA.4.a

keep under review how the FCA is performing generally in carrying out its
duties under section 138I(2)(a) and (5)(a), and

43.2.138IA.4.b

provide to the FCA whatever recommendations the Panel thinks appropriate as a
result of such review.

43.2.138IA.5

The FCA must appoint one of the members of the FCA Cost Benefit Analysis Panel
to be the chair of the Panel.

43.2.138IA.6

The Treasury’s approval is required for the appointment or dismissal of the
chair.

43.2.138IA.7

The FCA must appoint to the FCA Cost Benefit Analysis Panel such persons with
knowledge or experience of the preparation of cost benefit analyses as it
considers appropriate.

43.2.138IA.8

The FCA must appoint to the FCA Cost Benefit Analysis Panel at least two
individuals who are employed by persons authorised for the purposes of this
Act by the FCA, with each one being employed by a different person.

43.2.138IA.9

The FCA may appoint to the FCA Cost Benefit Analysis Panel such other persons
as it considers appropriate.

43.2.138IA.10

Subsections (7) to (9) are subject to section 1MA.

43.2.138IA.11

The FCA must consider representations that are made to it by the FCA Cost
Benefit Analysis Panel.

43.2.138IA.12

The FCA must from time to time publish in such manner as it thinks fit
responses to the representations.

43.3

After section 138J insert—

############ PRA Cost Benefit Analysis Panel

43.3.138JA

43.3.138JA.1

The PRA must establish and maintain a panel of persons (to be known as the “
PRA Cost Benefit Analysis Panel ”) to provide advice in relation to cost
benefit analyses for the purposes of section 138J.

43.3.138JA.2

Except as provided by subsection (3), the PRA must consult the PRA Cost
Benefit Analysis Panel about the following matters—

43.3.138JA.2.a

the preparation of a cost benefit analysis under section 138J(2)(a) or (5)(a);

43.3.138JA.2.b

the preparation of its statement of policy under section 138JB.

43.3.138JA.3

The requirement to consult under subsection (2)(a) does not apply in such
cases as may be set out in the statement of policy maintained under section
138JB.

43.3.138JA.4

Arrangements made by the PRA under subsection (1) for the establishment and
maintenance of the PRA Cost Benefit Analysis Panel must include arrangements
for the Panel to—

43.3.138JA.4.a

keep under review how the PRA is performing generally in carrying out its
duties under section 138J(2)(a) and (5)(a), and

43.3.138JA.4.b

provide to the PRA whatever recommendations the Panel thinks appropriate as a
result of such review.

43.3.138JA.5

The PRA must appoint one of the members of the PRA Cost Benefit Analysis Panel
to be the chair of the Panel.

43.3.138JA.6

The Treasury’s approval is required for the appointment or dismissal of the
chair.

43.3.138JA.7

The PRA must appoint to the PRA Cost Benefit Analysis Panel such persons with
knowledge or experience of the preparation of cost benefit analyses as it
considers appropriate.

43.3.138JA.8

The PRA must appoint to the PRA Cost Benefit Analysis Panel at least two
individuals who are employed by PRA-authorised persons, with each one being
employed by a different person.

43.3.138JA.9

The PRA may appoint to the PRA Cost Benefit Analysis Panel such other persons
as it considers appropriate.

43.3.138JA.10

Subsections (7) to (9) are subject to section 2LA.

43.3.138JA.11

The PRA must consider representations that are made to it by the PRA Cost
Benefit Analysis Panel.

43.3.138JA.12

The PRA must from time to time publish in such manner as it thinks fit
responses to the representations.

43.3.138JA.13

The reference in subsection (1) to section 138J includes a reference to that
section as applied in relation to the Bank of England by paragraphs 10(1) and
10A of Schedule 17A.

###### Statement of policy on cost benefit analyses

44

44.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

44.2

After section 138IA (inserted by section 43) insert—

############ Statement of policy in relation to cost benefit analyses

44.2.138IB

44.2.138IB.1

The FCA must prepare and publish a statement of policy in relation to the
preparation of cost benefit analyses for the purposes of section 138I.

44.2.138IB.2

The statement must provide information about—

44.2.138IB.2.a

the methodology adopted in preparing cost benefit analyses;

44.2.138IB.2.b

matters to which the FCA has regard in determining whether section 138I(8)
applies;

44.2.138IB.2.c

matters to which the FCA has regard in determining whether an exemption under
section 138L applies in relation to the preparation of a cost benefit
analysis;

44.2.138IB.2.d

arrangements to ensure that representations in connection with a cost benefit
analysis that are made in accordance with section 138I(2)(e) are considered;

44.2.138IB.2.e

cases in which the requirement to consult the FCA Cost Benefit Analysis Panel
in relation to the preparation of a cost benefit analysis does not apply;

44.2.138IB.2.f

arrangements to ensure that any recommendations in connection with cost
benefit analyses that are made following a review carried out under section
138IA(4) are considered.

44.2.138IB.3

The statement may include whatever other information in relation to cost
benefit analyses that the FCA considers appropriate.

44.2.138IB.4

The FCA may alter or replace a statement published under this section.

44.2.138IB.5

The FCA must publish a statement as altered or replaced under subsection (4).

44.2.138IB.6

Publication under this section is to be made in such manner as the FCA
considers best designed to bring the statement to the attention of the public.

44.3

After section 138JA (inserted by section 43) insert—

############ Statement of policy in relation to cost benefit analyses

44.3.138JB

44.3.138JB.1

The PRA must prepare and publish a statement of policy in relation to the
preparation of cost benefit analyses for the purposes of section 138J.

44.3.138JB.2

The statement must provide information about—

44.3.138JB.2.a

the methodology adopted in preparing cost benefit analyses;

44.3.138JB.2.b

matters to which the PRA has regard in determining whether section 138J(8)
applies;

44.3.138JB.2.c

matters to which the PRA has regard in determining whether an exemption under
section 138L applies in relation to the preparation of a cost benefit
analysis;

44.3.138JB.2.d

arrangements to ensure that representations in connection with a cost benefit
analysis that are made in accordance with section 138J(2)(e) are considered;

44.3.138JB.2.e

cases in which the requirement to consult the PRA Cost Benefit Analysis Panel
in relation to the preparation of a cost benefit analysis does not apply;

44.3.138JB.2.f

arrangements to ensure that any recommendations in connection with cost
benefit analyses that are made following a review carried out under section
138JA(4) are considered.

44.3.138JB.3

The statement may include whatever other information in relation to cost
benefit analyses that the PRA considers appropriate.

44.3.138JB.4

The PRA may alter or replace a statement published under this section.

44.3.138JB.5

The PRA must publish a statement as altered or replaced under subsection (4).

44.3.138JB.6

Publication under this section is to be made in such manner as the PRA
considers best designed to bring the statement to the attention of the public.

###### Statement of policy on panel appointments

45

45.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

45.2

After section 1R insert—

############ Statement of policy on panel appointments

45.2.1RA

45.2.1RA.1

The FCA must prepare and publish a statement of policy in relation to the
appointment of members of its statutory panels.

45.2.1RA.2

The statement must provide information about—

45.2.1RA.2.a

the process adopted for making appointments;

45.2.1RA.2.b

matters considered in determining who is appointed.

45.2.1RA.3

The statement may provide whatever other information in relation to the making
of appointments that the FCA considers appropriate.

45.2.1RA.4

The FCA may alter or replace a statement published under this section.

45.2.1RA.5

The FCA must publish a statement as altered or replaced under subsection (4).

45.2.1RA.6

Before publishing a statement under this section the FCA must—

45.2.1RA.6.a

consult the Treasury about the proposed statement, and

45.2.1RA.6.b

have regard to any representations the Treasury make in response to the
consultation.

45.2.1RA.7

Publication under this section is to be made in such manner as the FCA
considers best designed to bring the statement to the attention of the public.

45.2.1RA.8

In this section “ statutory panel ” means a panel established under section
1N, 1O, 1P, 1Q, 1QA or 138IA.

45.3

After section 2N insert—

############ Statement of policy on panel appointments

45.3.2NA

45.3.2NA.1

The PRA must prepare and publish a statement of policy in relation to the
appointment of members of its statutory panels.

45.3.2NA.2

The statement must provide information about—

45.3.2NA.2.a

the process adopted for making appointments;

45.3.2NA.2.b

matters considered in determining who is appointed.

45.3.2NA.3

The statement may provide whatever other information in relation to the making
of appointments that the PRA considers appropriate.

45.3.2NA.4

The PRA may alter or replace a statement published under this section.

45.3.2NA.5

The PRA must publish a statement as altered or replaced under subsection (4).

45.3.2NA.6

Before publishing a statement under this section the PRA must—

45.3.2NA.6.a

consult the Treasury about the proposed statement, and

45.3.2NA.6.b

have regard to any representations the Treasury make in response to the
consultation.

45.3.2NA.7

Publication under this section is to be made in such manner as the PRA
considers best designed to bring the statement to the attention of the public.

45.3.2NA.8

In this section “ statutory panel ” means a panel established under section
2M, 2MA or 138JA.

###### Composition of panels

46

46.1

FSMA 2000 is amended in accordance with subsections (2) to (8).

46.2

After section 1M (FCA’s general duty to consult) insert—

############ Composition of Panels

46.2.1MA

46.2.1MA.1

A person who receives remuneration from the FCA, the PRA, the Payment Systems
Regulator, the Bank of England or the Treasury is disqualified from being
appointed as a member of a panel established under any of sections 1N to 1QA
or 138IA.

46.2.1MA.2

Subsection  (1)  does not apply in respect of a panel mentioned in that
subsection if regulations made by the Treasury provide for it not to apply to
that panel.

46.2.1MA.3

Regulations under subsection (2) may make provision in respect of a panel—

46.2.1MA.a

generally, or

46.2.1MA.b

only in relation to such descriptions of persons or cases as the regulations
may specify (but the power to make such regulations may not be exercised so as
to specify persons by name).

46.3

In section 1N (FCA Practitioner Panel), after subsection (5) insert—

46.3.6

Subsections (4) and (5) are subject to section 1MA.

46.4

In section 1O (Smaller Business Practitioner Panel), after subsection (6)
insert—

46.4.6A

Subsections (5) and (6) are subject to section 1MA.

46.5

In section 1P (Markets Practitioner Panel), after subsection (6) insert—

46.5.7

Subsections (4) to (6) are subject to section 1MA.

46.6

In section 1Q (Consumer Panel), after subsection (4) insert—

46.6.4A

Subsection (4) is subject to section 1MA.

46.7

After section 2L (PRA’s general duty to consult) insert—

############ Composition of Panels

46.7.2LA

46.7.2LA.1

A person who receives remuneration from the FCA, the PRA, the Payment Systems
Regulator, the Bank of England or the Treasury is disqualified from being
appointed as a member of a panel established under any of sections 2M, 2MA or
138JA.

46.7.2LA.2

Subsection  (1)  does not apply in respect of a panel mentioned in that
subsection if regulations made by the Treasury provide for it not to apply to
that panel.

46.7.2LA.3

Regulations under subsection (2) may make provision in respect of a panel—

46.7.2LA.3.a

generally, or

46.7.2LA.3.b

only in relation to such descriptions of persons or cases as the regulations
may specify (but the power to make such regulations may not be exercised so as
to specify persons by name).

46.8

In section 2M (the PRA Practitioner Panel), after subsection (5) insert—

46.8.6

Subsections (4) and (5) are subject to section 2LA.

46.9

In section 103 of the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013
(regulator’s general duty to consult) after subsection (5) insert—

46.9.5A

A person who receives remuneration from the FCA, the PRA, the Payment Systems
Regulator, the Bank of England or the Treasury is disqualified from being
appointed as a member of a panel established under subsection (3).

46.9.5B

Subsection (5A) does not apply in respect of a panel mentioned in that
subsection if regulations made by the Treasury provide for it not to apply to
that panel.

46.9.5C

Regulations under subsection (5B) may make provision in respect of a panel—

46.9.5C.a

generally, or

46.9.5C.b

only in relation to such descriptions of persons or cases as the regulations
may specify (but the power to make such regulations may not be exercised so as
to specify persons by name).

###### Panel reports

47

47.1

The Treasury may by regulations require specified statutory panels of the
regulator to produce an annual report on their work and provide that report to
the Treasury.

47.2

Regulations under subsection (1) may make provision about the content of the
annual report.

47.3

The Treasury must lay a copy of each report prepared by virtue of this section
before Parliament.

47.4

Each specified statutory panel of the regulator must publish its reports
prepared by virtue of this section in such manner as it thinks fit.

47.5

In this section—

47.5.a

“ statutory panels of the regulator ” means—

47.5.a.i

in relation to the FCA, the panels mentioned in section 1RA(8) of FSMA 2000,

47.5.a.ii

in relation to the PRA, the panels mentioned in section 2NA(8) of FSMA 2000,
and

47.5.a.iii

in relation to the Payment Systems Regulator, a panel established under
section 103(3) of the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013;

47.5.b

“ specified ” means specified in regulations under this section.

47.6

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

##### Bank of England regulatory powers

###### Exercise of FMI regulatory powers

48

After section 30C of the Bank of England Act 1998 insert—

########## Central counterparties and central securities depositories

########### Exercise of functions relating to CCPs and CSDs

48.30D

48.30D.1

In exercising its FMI functions in a way that advances the Financial Stability
Objective (and subject to that), the Bank must have regard to—

48.30D.1.a

the regulatory principles in section 30E;

48.30D.1.b

the effects generally that the exercise of FMI functions will or may have on
the financial stability of countries or territories (other than the United
Kingdom) in which FMI entities are established or provide services;

48.30D.1.c

the desirability of exercising FMI functions in a manner that is not
determined by whether the persons to whom FMI services are provided are
located in the United Kingdom or elsewhere.

48.30D.2

In exercising its FMI functions in a way that advances the Financial Stability
Objective the Bank must, so far as reasonably possible, act in a way which, as
a secondary objective, facilitates innovation in the provision of FMI services
(including in the infrastructure used for that purpose) with a view to
improving the quality, efficiency and economy of the services.

48.30D.3

For the purposes of this Part the Bank’s “FMI functions” are the following
functions so far as exercisable in relation to FMI entities—

48.30D.3.a

its function of making rules under FSMA 2000 (considered as a whole);

48.30D.3.b

its function of making technical standards in accordance with Chapter 2A of
Part 9A of FSMA 2000;

48.30D.3.c

its function of preparing and issuing codes under FSMA 2000 (considered as a
whole);

48.30D.3.d

its function of determining the general policy and principles by reference to
which it performs particular functions under FSMA 2000.

48.30D.4

In this Part—

      “ FMI entities ” means—         a recognised central counterparty within
the meaning of Part 18 of FSMA 2000 (see section 285(1)(b)(i) of that Act),
a recognised CSD as defined by section 285(1)(e) of FSMA 2000,           a
third country central counterparty as defined by section 285(1)(d) of FSMA
2000, and           a third country CSD as defined by section 285(1)(g) of
FSMA 2000;                 “ FMI services ” means services provided by FMI
entities as part of their business as FMI entities;           “ FSMA 2000 ”
means the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.

########### Regulatory principles

48.30E

48.30E.1

These are the regulatory principles referred to in section 30D(1)(a)—

48.30E.1.a

the need to use the resources of the Bank in the most efficient and economic
way;

48.30E.1.b

the principle that a burden or restriction which is imposed on a person, or on
the carrying on of an activity, should be proportionate to the benefits,
considered in general terms, which are expected to result from the imposition
of that burden or restriction;

48.30E.1.c

the desirability of sustainable growth in the economy of the United Kingdom in
the medium or long term, including in a way consistent with contributing
towards achieving compliance by the Secretary of State with section 1 of the
Climate Change Act 2008 (UK net zero emissions target) and section 5 of the
Environment Act 2021 (environmental targets) where the Bank considers the
exercise of its FMI functions to be relevant to the making of such a
contribution;

48.30E.1.d

the general principle that consumers should take responsibility for their
decisions;

48.30E.1.e

the responsibilities of the senior management of FMI entities subject to
requirements imposed by or under FSMA 2000, including those affecting
consumers, in relation to compliance with those requirements;

48.30E.1.f

the desirability where appropriate of the Bank exercising its FMI functions in
a way that recognises differences in the nature of, and objectives of,
businesses carried on by different persons;

48.30E.1.g

the desirability in appropriate cases of the Bank publishing information
relating to persons on whom requirements are imposed as a result of the
exercise of the Bank’s FMI functions, or requiring such persons to publish
information, as a means of contributing to the advancement by the Bank of its
Financial Stability Objective and its objective under section 30D(2);

48.30E.1.h

the principle that the Bank should exercise its FMI functions as transparently
as possible;

48.30E.1.i

the desirability of facilitating fair and reasonable access to FMI services.

48.30E.2

For the purposes of subsection (1) “ consumer ” has the same meaning as in
section 3B of FSMA 2000 (and for these purposes includes in particular persons
who receive FMI services).

########### Financial Market Infrastructure Committee

48.30F

48.30F.1

There is to be a committee of the Bank known as the Financial Market
Infrastructure Committee (the “ FMI Committee ”).

48.30F.2

The FMI Committee is to consist of—

48.30F.2.a

a chair appointed by the Bank;

48.30F.2.b

at least three independent members appointed by the Bank;

48.30F.2.c

such other members as may be appointed from time to time by the Bank.

48.30F.3

The person appointed as chair under subsection (2)(a) must be the Governor, or
a Deputy Governor, of the Bank.

48.30F.4

A person is an independent member for the purposes of subsection (2)(b) if the
person is an officer, employee or agent of the Bank—

48.30F.4.a

as a result only of their membership of one or more of the Bank’s committees,
or

48.30F.4.b

is appointed as an independent member to the FMI Committee with the consent of
the Treasury.

48.30F.5

For the purposes of subsection (4)(a)—

48.30F.5.a

the Bank’s committees are—

48.30F.5.a.i

the FMI Committee,

48.30F.5.a.ii

the Financial Policy Committee,

48.30F.5.a.iii

the Monetary Policy Committee, and

48.30F.5.a.iv

the Prudential Regulation Committee;

48.30F.5.b

the reference to a person who is an officer, employee or agent of the Bank as
result of their membership of one or more of those committees includes a
reference to a person who becomes such an officer, employee or agent as a
result of their appointment to the FMI Committee under this section.

48.30F.6

Before appointing a person under subsection (2)(b) the Bank must—

48.30F.6.a

be satisfied that the person has knowledge or experience which is likely to be
relevant to the FMI Committee’s functions, and

48.30F.6.b

consider whether the person has any financial or other interests that could
substantially affect the functions as member that it would be proper for the
person to discharge.

########### Functions of the Financial Market Infrastructure Committee

48.30G

48.30G.1

The following functions of the Bank are to be exercised by the Bank acting
through the FMI Committee (and, except as authorised by this section, are not
to be exercised in any other way)—

48.30G.1.a

its FMI functions;

48.30G.1.b

such other functions of the Bank as the court of directors may specify as
functions that are to be discharged by the FMI Committee.

48.30G.2

The FMI Committee may arrange for such of its functions as it thinks fit to be
carried out only by, or after consultation with, the Governor of the Bank.

48.30G.3

Except as provided by subsection (4), the FMI Committee may delegate such of
its functions as it thinks fit to—

48.30G.3.a

a member of the FMI Committee;

48.30G.3.b

a sub-committee of the FMI Committee consisting of members of the FMI
Committee or one or more such members and one or more officers, employees or
agents of the Bank;

48.30G.3.c

an officer, employee or agent of the Bank;

48.30G.3.d

a committee consisting of officers, employees or agents of the Bank.

48.30G.4

The FMI Committee may not delegate under subsection (3) its FMI functions
under FSMA 2000 of making rules or technical standards (but this does not
prevent arrangements under subsection (2) being made in respect of such
functions).

########### Information

48.30H

48.30H.1

The Bank must publish a statement setting out the following matters in respect
of the FMI Committee—

48.30H.1.a

the number of members and whether each such member is a Bank member or an
independent member;

48.30H.1.b

if the Committee includes any Bank members, the role of each such member
within the Bank;

48.30H.1.c

arrangements for meetings and how proceedings at meetings are conducted;

48.30H.1.d

arrangements for the taking of decisions otherwise than at meetings;

48.30H.1.e

arrangements for any functions to be carried out by, or after consultation
with, the Governor of the Bank (including details of the functions to which
such arrangements relate);

48.30H.1.f

arrangements for the delegation of functions.

48.30H.2

If there is a material change in any of the matters contained in the statement
the Bank must publish an updated statement.

48.30H.3

Publication under this section is to be made in such manner as the Bank
considers best designed to bring the statement to the attention of the public.

48.30H.4

For the purposes of subsection (1)—

48.30H.4.a

a person is an independent member if they are appointed in accordance with
section 30F(2)(b) and (4);

48.30H.4.b

a person is a Bank member if they are an officer or employee of the Bank who
is not appointed as mentioned in paragraph (a).

########### Recommendations by Treasury

48.30I

48.30I.1

The Treasury may at any time by notice in writing to the FMI Committee make
recommendations about aspects of the economic policy of His Majesty’s
Government to which the Bank should have regard—

48.30I.1.a

when considering how to advance the Financial Stability Objective and the
objective under section 30D(2), and

48.30I.1.b

when considering the application of the regulatory principles set out in
section 30E.

48.30I.2

The Treasury must make recommendations under subsection (1) at least once in
each Parliament.

48.30I.3

The Treasury must—

48.30I.3.a

publish in such manner as they think fit any notice given under subsection
(1), and

48.30I.3.b

lay a copy of it before Parliament.

48.30I.4

The FMI Committee must respond to each recommendation made under subsection
(1) by notifying the Treasury in writing of—

48.30I.4.a

action that the Bank has taken or intends to take in accordance with the
recommendation, or

48.30I.4.b

the reasons why the Bank has not acted or does not intend to act in accordance
with the recommendation.

48.30I.5

The notice under subsection (4) must be given before the end of 12 months
beginning with the date the notice containing the recommendation was given
under subsection (1).

48.30I.6

Where the FMI Committee has given notice under subsection (4) in relation to a
recommendation, it must by notice in writing update the Treasury on the
matters mentioned in subsection (4)(a) and (b) before the end of each
subsequent period of 12 months.

48.30I.7

Subsection (6) does not apply if the Treasury have notified the FMI Committee
in writing that no update (or further update) is required.

48.30I.8

The FMI Committee is not required under subsection (4) or (6) to provide any
information whose publication would in the opinion of the Committee be against
the public interest.

###### Bank of England: rule-making powers

49

49.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

49.2

After section 300H (inserted by section 11) insert—

############ Bank of England rules

############# Duty of Bank of England to review rules

49.2.300I

49.2.300I.1

The Bank of England must keep under review generally any rules made by the
Bank under this Act.

49.2.300I.2

Subsection (1) does not apply to rules made for the purpose of complying with
a recommendation of the Financial Policy Committee of the Bank of England
under section 9O of the Bank of England Act 1998 (making of recommendations
within the Bank).

############# Statement of policy relating to review of rules

49.2.300J

49.2.300J.1

The Bank of England must prepare and publish a statement of policy with
respect to its review of rules under section 300I.

49.2.300J.2

The statement must provide information about—

49.2.300J.2.a

how representations (including by a statutory panel) can be made to the Bank
with respect to its review of rules under section 300I, and

49.2.300J.2.b

the arrangements to ensure that those representations are considered.

49.2.300J.3

In this section “ statutory panel ” has the meaning given by section 1RB(5).

49.2.300J.4

If a statement published under this section is altered or replaced, the Bank
must publish the altered or replaced statement.

49.2.300J.5

A statement prepared under this section must be published by the Bank in the
way appearing to the Bank to be best designed to bring it to the attention of
the public.

############# Requirement to review specified rules

49.2.300K

49.2.300K.1

The Treasury may by direction require the Bank of England to carry out a
review of specified rules made by the Bank under this Act if—

49.2.300K.1.a

the rules have been in force for at least 12 months,

49.2.300K.1.b

the Treasury consider that it is in the public interest that the rules are
reviewed, and

49.2.300K.1.c

it does not appear to the Treasury that—

49.2.300K.1.c.i

the Bank is carrying out, or plans to carry out, a review of those rules, or

49.2.300K.1.c.ii

if the Bank proposes to carry out a review, the proposals are appropriate for
the purposes of carrying out an effective review.

49.2.300K.2

Subsection (1) only applies to rules falling within section 300I(1).

49.2.300K.3

The Treasury must consult the Bank before giving a direction under subsection
(1).

49.2.300K.4

In exercising the power under this section, the Treasury must have regard to
the desirability of minimising any adverse effect that the carrying out of the
review may have on the exercise by the Bank of any of its other functions.

49.2.300K.5

A direction under subsection (1) may—

49.2.300K.5.a

specify the period within which a review must be carried out;

49.2.300K.5.b

determine the scope and conduct of a review;

49.2.300K.5.c

require the provision of interim reports during the carrying out of a review.

49.2.300K.6

Provision made in a direction under subsection (5)(b) may include a
requirement—

49.2.300K.6.a

for a review to be carried out by a person appointed by the Bank who is
independent of the Bank;

49.2.300K.6.b

for any such appointment to be made only with the approval of the Treasury.

49.2.300K.7

As soon as practicable after giving a direction under subsection (1) the
Treasury must—

49.2.300K.7.a

lay before Parliament a copy of the direction, and

49.2.300K.7.b

publish the direction in such manner as the Treasury think fit.

49.2.300K.8

Subsection (7) does not apply where the Treasury consider that publication of
the direction would be against the public interest.

49.2.300K.9

A direction under subsection (1) may be varied or revoked by the giving of a
further direction.

############# Report on certain reviews

49.2.300L

49.2.300L.1

This section applies where the Treasury have given a direction to the Bank of
England under section 300K to carry out a review.

49.2.300L.2

The Bank must make a written report to the Treasury as to the opinion of the
Bank in relation to the following matters—

49.2.300L.2.a

whether the rules under review advance—

49.2.300L.2.a.i

the Bank’s Financial Stability Objective, and

49.2.300L.2.a.ii

the Bank’s secondary innovation objective (see section 30D(2) of the Bank of
England Act 1998);

49.2.300L.2.b

whether and to what extent the rules are functioning effectively and achieving
their intended purpose;

49.2.300L.2.c

whether any amendments need to be made to the rules and, if so, what those
amendments should be;

49.2.300L.2.d

whether any rules should be revoked (with or without replacement);

49.2.300L.2.e

whether any other action should be taken and, if so, what that action should
be.

49.2.300L.3

As soon as practicable after receiving the report the Treasury must—

49.2.300L.3.a

lay before Parliament a copy of the report, and

49.2.300L.3.b

publish the report in such manner as the Treasury think fit.

49.2.300L.4

When complying with subsection (3) the Treasury may withhold material from the
report if the Treasury consider that publication of the material would be
against the public interest.

############# Power of Treasury to require making of rules by regulations

49.2.300M

49.2.300M.1

The Treasury may by regulations require the Bank of England to exercise a
power under this Act to make rules in relation to a specified activity or a
specified description of person.

49.2.300M.2

Regulations under this section may—

49.2.300M.2.a

specify matters that the rules must cover;

49.2.300M.2.b

specify a period within which the rules must be made.

49.2.300M.3

But except so far as permitted by subsection (2), regulations under this
section may not require rules to be made—

49.2.300M.3.a

in a specified form or with specified content, or

49.2.300M.3.b

to achieve or advance a specified outcome.

49.2.300M.4

If no period is specified under subsection (2)(b) the rules must be made as
soon as reasonably practicable after the coming into force of the regulations.

49.3

In section 429 (Parliamentary control of statutory instruments), in subsection
(2), in the list of sections beginning with “90B” insert at the appropriate
place  “300M,” .

###### Application of FSMA 2000 to FMI functions

50

50.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

50.2

In section 285A (powers exercisable in relation to recognised bodies)—

50.2.a

in the title at the end insert  “etc” ;

50.2.b

in subsection (3), at the end of paragraph (b) insert  “or as a consequence of
conferring other FMI functions on the Bank” .

50.3

In section 313(1) (interpretation of Part 18), insert at the appropriate
place—

“ FMI functions ”, in relation to the Bank of England, has the meaning given
by section 30D(3) of the Bank of England Act 1998;

.

50.4

Schedule 17A to FSMA 2000 (further provision in relation to exercise of Bank
of England functions under Part 18 of that Act) is amended as follows.

50.5

In the title to the Schedule, after “functions” insert  “, or other FMI
functions,” .

50.6

After paragraph 9 insert—

############ Public consultations

50.6.9A

50.6.9A.1

Section 1RB (requirements in connection with public consultations) applies in
relation to the Bank but as if, in subsection (4), after “proposals” there
were inserted  “in connection with the carrying on by the Bank of its FMI
functions.

50.6.9A.2

For this purpose, paragraph 9(2)(a) does not apply so far as relating to the
following references in section 1RB—

50.6.9A.2.a

in subsection (2), the reference after “statutory panels of” to the FCA and
the PRA;

50.6.9A.2.b

in subsection (5)(a), the reference to the FCA;

50.6.9A.2.c

in subsection (5)(b), the reference to the PRA.

50.7

In paragraph 10—

50.7.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(b), for the words from “subsection (4)(b)” to the end
substitute  “subsection (5) of section 138A, subsection (4) of section 138B,
and, apart from in relation to rules made under section 300F, subsection
(4)(b) of section 138A;” ;

50.7.b

after sub-paragraph (1)(b) insert—

50.7.b.ba

section 138BA (disapplication or modification of rules in individual cases);

;

50.7.c

in sub-paragraph (1)(d) for “subsection (2)” substitute  “subsections (2) and
(3), and any references to those subsections” ;

50.7.d

after sub-paragraph (1)(e) insert—

50.7.d.ea

section 138EA (matters to consider when making rules);

;

50.7.e

at the end of sub-paragraph (1)(f) insert  “but with the omission of
subsections (1A) and (2)” ;

50.7.f

at the end of sub-paragraph (1)(i) omit “and”;

50.7.g

after sub-paragraph (1)(i) insert—

50.7.g.ia

section 138JA(2), (3) (4), (10) and (11) (duties in relation to PRA Cost
Benefit Analysis Panel);

50.7.g.ib

section 138JB (statement of policy in relation to cost benefit analyses);

;

50.7.h

after sub-paragraph (1)(j) insert—

50.7.h.k

section 141A (power to make consequential amendments of references to rules);

50.7.h.l

section 141B (power to consequentially amend enactments).

;

50.7.i

in sub-paragraph (2) at the end insert  “or other persons in respect of whom
FMI functions are exercised” ;

50.7.j

after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

50.7.j.2A

Section 137T has effect as if, in paragraph (b), for “the other regulator”
there were substituted  “the FCA or the PRA” .

50.7.j.2B

Section 138A has effect as if the reference in subsection (4)(b) to any of the
regulator’s objectives were a reference to the Bank’s Financial Stability
Objective.

50.7.j.2C

Section 138BA has effect as if subsection (3)(b) and (c) were omitted.

50.7.j.2D

Section 138EA(5) has effect as if, for paragraphs (a) and (b), there were
substituted “complying with a recommendation of the Financial Policy Committee
of the Bank of England under section 9O of the Bank of England Act 1998
(making of recommendations within the Bank).

;

50.7.k

after sub-paragraph (3) insert—

50.7.k.3A

Section 138J(8A) has effect as if, in paragraph (a), for sub-paragraphs (i)
and (ii) there were substituted “be prejudicial to advancing the Financial
Stability Objective, or

.

50.8

After paragraph 12 insert—

50.8.12A

—

50.8.12A.1

Section 166A applies in relation to rules made by the Bank under section 300F.

50.8.12A.2

For this purpose any reference in section 166A to an authorised person is to
be read as a reference to a relevant FMI entity (as defined by paragraph
9B(2)).

50.9

In paragraph 14(2)—

50.9.a

in paragraph (a) omit “an offence under section 398(1) or”;

50.9.b

for paragraph (g) substitute—

50.9.b.g

a person may be guilty of an offence under section 398(1), as applied by
paragraph 30 of this Schedule;

.

50.10

In paragraph 29 before “192L,” insert  “55X(2) or (4),” .

50.11

After paragraph 31 insert—

############ International obligations

50.11.31A

50.11.31A.1

The following provisions of Part 28 of this Act apply in relation to the
exercise by the Bank of its FMI functions with the modifications in sub-
paragraphs (2) and (3)—

50.11.31A.1.a

section 409A (consultation in relation to deference decisions), and

50.11.31A.1.b

section 409B (notification in relation to international trade obligations).

50.11.31A.2

Section 409A applies as if—

50.11.31A.2.a

in subsection (4), in paragraph (b), for the words after “proposes to” to the
end there were substituted  “exercise any of its other FMI functions” ;

50.11.31A.2.b

in subsection (6)(a), the reference to the duty imposed by section 138J were a
reference to that duty as it applies in relation to the Bank under paragraph
10(1) of this Schedule;

50.11.31A.2.c

in subsection (9), for paragraphs (a) to (f) there were substituted  “in order
to comply with a recommendation of the Financial Policy Committee of the Bank
of England under section 9O of the Bank of England Act 1998 (making of
recommendations within the Bank).” ;

50.11.31A.2.d

subsections (7) and (10) were omitted.

50.11.31A.3

Section 409B applies as if—

50.11.31A.3.a

in subsection (4), in paragraph (b), for the words after “proposes to” to the
end there were substituted  “exercise any of its other FMI functions” ;

50.11.31A.3.b

in subsection (5)(a), the reference to the duty imposed by section 138J were a
reference to that duty as it applies in relation to the Bank under paragraph
10(1) of this Schedule;

50.11.31A.3.c

in subsection (8), for paragraphs (a) to (c) there were substituted  “in order
to comply with a recommendation of the Financial Policy Committee of the Bank
of England under section 9O of the Bank of England Act 1998 (making of
recommendations within the Bank).” ;

50.11.31A.3.d

subsections (6) and (9) were omitted.

50.12

In paragraph 33(a), for “(f)” substitute  “ (fb) ”  and in the substituted
paragraph (b)—

50.a

for “financial stability objective has been met” substitute  “Financial
Stability Objective and its objective under section 30D(2) of the Bank of
England Act 1998 have been advanced” ;

50.b

after “been met,” insert—

50.b.c

the efforts it has made to engage with persons (other than those mentioned in
paragraph (a)) appearing to the Bank to have an interest in the discharge of
those functions, and

50.b.d

the results of that engagement,

.

50.13

In paragraph 33(b), for “sub-paragraph (3)” substitute  “sub-paragraphs (1A),
(1B), (3) and (6)” .

50.14

After paragraph 33 insert—

############ Other reports

50.14.33A

Paragraph 21A of Schedule 1ZB (other reports by PRA) applies in relation to
the Bank, but as if—

50.14.33A.a

the reference in sub-paragraph (1)(a) to paragraphs (a) to (f) of paragraph
19(1) were a reference to those paragraphs as substituted in relation to the
Bank under paragraph 33 of this Schedule;

50.14.33A.b

the reference in sub-paragraph (1)(b) to such other matters were a references
to such other matters so far as relating to the exercise of the Bank’s FMI
functions;

50.14.33A.c

the reference in sub-paragraph (5)(b) to section 348 were a reference to that
section as it applies in relation to the Bank under paragraph 23 of this
Schedule.

############ Engagement with Parliamentary Committees

50.14.33B

50.14.33B.1

Paragraph 36 of Schedule 1ZB (PRA engagement with Parliamentary Committees)
applies in relation to the Bank, but as if—

50.14.33B.1.a

in sub-paragraph (2)(a), the reference to section 138J were a reference to
that section as it applies in relation to the Bank under paragraph 10(1) of
this Schedule;

50.14.33B.1.b

in sub-paragraph (2)(b), the reference to a proposal were to a proposal so far
as relating to the exercise of the Bank’s FMI functions;

50.14.33B.1.c

in sub-paragraph (2)(c), the reference to general functions were a reference
to the Bank’s FMI functions;

50.14.33B.1.d

in sub-paragraph (4)(a), the reference to the PRA’s objectives were a
reference to the Financial Stability Objective and the Bank’s secondary
innovation objective (see section 30D(2) of the Bank of England Act 1998);

50.14.33B.1.e

in sub-paragraph (4)(b), the reference to section 3B were a reference to
section 30E of the Bank of England Act 1998;

50.14.33B.1.f

in sub-paragraph (4)(c), the reference to section 138EA were a reference to
that section as it applies in relation to the Bank under paragraph 10(1) of
this Schedule;

50.14.33B.1.g

in sub-paragraph (5A)(b)(ii) and (c)(ii), the references to the PRA being
notified were references to the Bank being notified.

50.14.33B.2

Paragraph 37 of Schedule 1ZB applies in relation to the Bank, but as if, in
sub-paragraph (2), after “the draft of any proposals” there were inserted  “so
far as relating to the exercise by the Bank of its FMI functions” .

##### Payment Systems Regulator

###### Payment Systems Regulator

51

Schedule 7 makes provision corresponding or similar to provision made by
preceding provisions of this Chapter relating to the accountability of the
Payment Systems Regulator.

###### Chair of the Payment Systems Regulator as member of FCA Board

52

52.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

52.2

In section 417(1) (definitions), at the appropriate place insert—

      “ the Payment Systems Regulator ” means the body established under
section 40(1) of the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013;

.

52.3

Schedule 1ZA (FCA: constitution etc) is amended as follows.

52.4

In paragraph 2—

52.4.a

in sub-paragraph (2), after paragraph (c) insert—

52.4.a.ca

the Chair of the Payment Systems Regulator,

;

52.4.b

in sub-paragraph (3), after “(c)” insert  “, (ca)” .

52.5

In paragraph 3—

52.5.a

in sub-paragraph (6) after “PRA” insert  “or of the Payment Systems Regulator”
;

52.5.b

in sub-paragraph (7) for “the Bank’s Deputy Governor for prudential
regulation” substitute  “a person holding an office mentioned in paragraph
2(2)(c) or (ca)” .

52.6

In paragraph 5(a) for “or (c)” substitute  “, (c) or (ca)” .

52.7

After paragraph 6 insert—

52.7.6A

52.7.6A.1

The Chair of the Payment Systems Regulator must not take part in any
discussion by or decision of the FCA which relates to—

52.7.6A.1.a

the exercise of the FCA’s functions in relation to a particular person, or

52.7.6A.1.b

a decision not to exercise those functions.

52.7.6A.2

Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply at any time when the person who is the Chair
of the Payment Systems Regulator also holds the office mentioned in paragraph
2(2)(a).

##### Consultation on rules

###### Consultation on rules

53

53.1

In section 138I of FSMA 2000 (consultation by the FCA), after subsection (4)
insert—

53.1.4A

The FCA must include, in the account mentioned in subsection (4), a list of
the respondents who made the representations, where those respondents have
consented to the publication of their names.

53.1.4B

The duty in subsection (4A) is not to be read as authorising or requiring such
processing of personal data as would contravene the data protection
legislation (but the duty is to be taken into account in determining whether
particular processing of data would contravene that legislation).

53.1.4C

For the purposes of this section, the exemption relating to functions
conferred on the FCA mentioned in paragraph 11 of Schedule 2 to the Data
Protection Act 2018 (exemption from application of listed GDPR provisions)
does not apply.

53.1.4D

Where representations are made to the FCA by a Committee of the House of
Commons or the House of Lords or a Joint Committee of both Houses in
accordance with subsection (2)(e), the FCA’s account mentioned in subsection
(4) must also describe how the FCA has considered the representations made by
that Committee in making the proposed rules.

53.2

In section 138J of FSMA 2000 (consultation by the PRA), after subsection (4)
insert—

53.2.4A

The PRA must include, in the account mentioned in subsection (4), a list of
the respondents who made the representations, where those respondents have
consented to the publication of their names.

53.2.4B

The duty in subsection (4A) is not to be read as authorising or requiring such
processing of personal data as would contravene the data protection
legislation (but the duty is to be taken into account in determining whether
particular processing of data would contravene that legislation).

53.2.4C

For the purposes of this section, the exemption relating to functions
conferred on the PRA mentioned in paragraph 9 of Schedule 2 to the Data
Protection Act 2018 (exemption from application of listed GDPR provisions)
does not apply.

53.2.4D

Where representations are made to the PRA by a Committee of the House of
Commons or the House of Lords or a Joint Committee of both Houses in
accordance with subsection (2)(e), the PRA’s account mentioned in subsection
(4) must also describe how the PRA has considered the representations made by
that Committee in making the proposed rules.

53.3

In section 104 of the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013
(consultation requirements), after subsection (5) insert—

53.3.5A

The Payment Systems Regulator must include, in the account mentioned in
subsection (5), a list of the respondents who made the representations, where
those respondents have consented to the publication of their names.

53.3.5B

The duty in subsection (5A) is not to be read as authorising or requiring such
processing of personal data as would contravene the data protection
legislation (but the duty is to be taken into account in determining whether
particular processing of data would contravene that legislation).

53.3.5C

In this section “ data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the
Data Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act).

53.3.5D

Where representations are made to the Payment Systems Regulator by a Committee
of the House of Commons or the House of Lords or a Joint Committee of both
Houses in accordance with subsection (3)(d), the Payment Systems Regulator’s
account mentioned in subsection (5) must also describe how the Payment Systems
Regulator has considered the representations made by that Committee in making
the proposed requirement.

### Access to cash

#### Cash access services

54

Schedule 8 makes provision about the provision of cash deposit and withdrawal
services in the United Kingdom or a part of the United Kingdom.

#### Wholesale cash distribution

55

Schedule 9 makes provision about persons involved in wholesale cash
distribution (as that term is defined in the Schedule).

### Performance of functions relating to financial market infrastructure

#### Recognised bodies: senior managers and certification

56

Schedule 10 amends FSMA 2000 to make provision about the performance, by
senior managers and others, of functions in relation to activities carried on
by recognised bodies (within the meaning of Part 18 of that Act) of types
specified by the Treasury.

### Central counterparties in financial difficulties

#### Central counterparties in financial difficulties

57

Schedule 11 makes provision for a special resolution regime for central
counterparties where all or part of its business has encountered, or is likely
to encounter, financial difficulties.

### Insurers in financial difficulties

#### Insurers in financial difficulties

58

58.1

Schedule 12 makes provision about the powers of the court in relation to
liabilities of an insurer that is, or is likely to become, unable to pay its
debts (an order made in exercise of these powers is a “write-down order”).

58.2

Schedule 13 makes provision about the enforcement of contracts to which an
insurer is a party, where the insurer is subject to a write-down order or to
certain insolvency proceedings.

### Miscellaneous

#### Amendments to FSMA 2000

##### Application of provisions to regulatory functions under this Act

59

59.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

59.2

In section 1A (the FCA), in subsection (6) after paragraph (czb) insert—

59.2.czc

the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023,

.

59.3

In section 2AB (functions of the PRA), in subsection (3) after paragraph (c)
insert—

59.3.ca

the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023,

.

##### Formerly authorised persons

60

60.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

60.2

In section 404C after “(which” insert  “, subject to section 415AA(1),” .

60.3

After section 415A insert—

########### Application of powers to formerly authorised persons

60.3.415AA

60.3.415AA.1

A power in the following provisions may be exercised in relation to persons
who were at any time authorised persons (in addition to persons who are
authorised persons at the time when the power is exercised)—

60.3.415AA.1.a

section 168 (appointment of investigators in certain cases);

60.3.415AA.1.b

section 205 (public censure);

60.3.415AA.1.c

section 206 (financial penalties);

60.3.415AA.1.d

section 384 (power to require restitution).

60.3.415AA.2

Accordingly, references in the provisions listed in subsection  (1) , and in
sections 207 to 209, to an authorised person are (so far as appropriate) to be
read as including a person who was at any time an authorised person but who
has ceased to be an authorised person.

60.4

The amendments made by this section have effect only in relation to persons
who cease to be authorised persons on or after 20 July 2022.

##### Control over authorised persons

61

In Part 12 of FSMA 2000 (control over authorised persons), in section 187
(approval with conditions), in subsection (2)—

61.a

at the end of paragraph (a) omit “or”, and

61.b

after that paragraph insert—

61.b.aa

it appears to that regulator that it is desirable to impose those conditions
in order to advance any of that regulator’s objectives (subject to section
185(2)(c)), or

.

##### Financial services compensation scheme

62

62.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as set out in subsections  (2)  and  (3) .

62.2

In section 212 (the scheme manager), in subsection (3)(aa) omit the words
“(who is to be the accounting officer)”.

62.3

Omit section 218B (Treasury’s power to receive information).

62.4

Omit section 15 of the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013 (which
inserted section 218B of FSMA 2000).

##### The Ombudsman scheme

63

63.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

63.2

In section 429 (Parliamentary control of statutory instruments), in subsection
(2B) after paragraph (c) insert—

63.2.d

provision made under paragraph 15(3) of Schedule 17.

63.3

Paragraph 15 of Schedule 17 (the Ombudsman scheme: power of scheme operator to
charge fees) is amended as set out in subsections (4) and (5).

63.4

In sub-paragraph (1) after “respondent” insert  “or other persons of a
specified description” .

63.5

After sub-paragraph (2) insert—

63.5.3

The reference in sub-paragraph (1) to persons of a specified description is a
reference to such descriptions of persons as may be specified in regulations
made by the Treasury.

63.5.4

The power conferred by sub-paragraph (3) to specify descriptions of persons
may not be exercised so as to provide for eligible complainants to fall within
a specified description of persons.

63.5.5

The reference in sub-paragraph (4) to “ eligible complainants ” is a reference
to complainants who are eligible in relation to the compulsory or voluntary
jurisdiction of the ombudsman scheme (see section 226(6) and 227(7)).

63.5.6

Before making regulations under sub-paragraph (3) the Treasury must consult
the scheme operator.

##### Unauthorised co-ownership AIFs

64

64.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

64.2

In section 261E (authorised contractual schemes: holding of units)—

64.2.a

before subsection (1) insert—

64.2.a.A1

This section sets out requirements for the purposes of section 261D(1)(a)
(authorisation orders).

;

64.2.b

in subsection (1) for “a contractual” substitute  “the” .

64.3

After section 261Z5 insert—

########### Unauthorised co-ownership AIFs

############ Power to make provision about unauthorised co-ownership AIFs

64.3.261Z6

64.3.261Z6.1

The Treasury may by regulations make provision about unauthorised co-ownership
AIFs that corresponds or is similar to, or applies with modifications, any of
sections 261M to 261O and section 261P(1) and (2) (rights and liabilities of
participants in authorised co-ownership schemes).

64.3.261Z6.2

Regulations under subsection (1) may make provision about unauthorised co-
ownership AIFs generally, or about unauthorised co-ownership AIFs of a
description specified in the regulations.

64.3.261Z6.3

In this section “ unauthorised co-ownership AIF ” means a co-ownership scheme
that—

64.3.261Z6.3.a

is an AIF, and

64.3.261Z6.3.b

is not authorised for the purposes of this Act by an authorisation order in
force under section 261D(1).

##### Power to amend enactments in consequence of rules

65

65.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

65.2

After section 141A insert—

########### Power to consequentially amend enactments

65.2.141B

65.2.141B.1

The Treasury may by regulations make provision amending an enactment that is
consequential on rules.

65.2.141B.2

In this section—

      “ enactment ” includes—         an enactment comprised in subordinate
legislation,           retained direct EU legislation,           an enactment
comprised in, or in an instrument made under, a Measure or Act of Senedd
Cymru,           an enactment comprised in, or in an instrument made under, an
Act of the Scottish Parliament, and           an enactment comprised in, or in
an instrument made under, Northern Ireland legislation;                 “
subordinate legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Interpretation Act
1978 (see section 21 of that Act) but does not include rules of either
regulator.

65.3

Omit section 144F (power to consequentially amend enactments).

65.4

In section 429 (Parliamentary control of statutory instruments), in subsection
(2), in the list of sections beginning with “90B”—

65.4.a

insert at the appropriate place  “141B,” ;

65.4.b

omit “144F,”.

##### Ambulatory references

66

66.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

66.2

In section 137T (regulator rules: general supplementary powers), after
paragraph (a) insert—

66.2.aa

may make provision for any reference in the rules to an enactment (including
an enactment comprised in subordinate legislation) to be read as a reference
to that enactment as it has effect from time to time,

.

66.3

In section 428 (regulations and orders)—

66.3.a

in subsection (3) before paragraph (a) insert—

66.3.a.za

make provision by reference to any rules or other instruments as they have
effect from time to time;

;

66.3.b

after subsection (3) insert—

66.3.b.4

In subsection (3)(za) “ rules ” includes rules made by the Bank of England
under this Act.

##### Power to amend or repeal certain provisions of FSMA 2000

67

67.1

The Treasury may by regulations amend or repeal the following provisions in
Part 9C of FSMA 2000—

67.1.a

section 143C (duty to make rules applying to FCA investment firms);

67.1.b

section 143D (duty to make rules applying to parent undertakings);

67.1.c

section 143G (matters to consider when making Part 9C rules).

67.2

In consequence of provision made in regulations under subsection (1), the
Treasury may by regulations amend or repeal other provisions of FSMA 2000.

67.3

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Power under FSMA 2000 to make transitional provisions

68

68.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

68.2

In section 427 (transitional provisions)—

68.2.a

in subsection (2)(a) to (c), for “the Authority”, in each place, substitute
“a regulator” ;

68.2.b

in subsection (2)(f), for “the Authority’s” substitute  “the FCA’s” ;

68.2.c

in subsection (3)(a), for “the Authority” substitute  “a regulator” .

68.3

In Schedule 17A, after paragraph 31A (inserted by section 50), insert—

########### Transitional provisions

68.3.31B

Section 427 (transitional provisions), so far as it relates to an order under
section 426 which makes provision in connection with this Part of this Act,
applies in relation to the Bank.

##### Cryptoassets

69

69.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

69.2

In section 21 (restrictions on financial promotion), in subsection (14) at end
insert  “(including where an asset, right or interest is, or comprises or
represents, a cryptoasset)” .

69.3

In section 22 (regulated activities), in subsection (4) at end insert
“(including where an asset, right or interest is, or comprises or represents,
a cryptoasset)” .

69.4

In section 417 (definitions)—

69.4.a

in subsection (1), insert at the appropriate place—

      “ cryptoasset ” means any cryptographically secured digital
representation of value or contractual rights that—         can be
transferred, stored or traded electronically, and           that uses
technology supporting the recording or storage of data (which may include
distributed ledger technology).

;

69.4.b

at end insert—

69.4.b.5

The Treasury may by regulations amend the definition of “cryptoasset” in
subsection (1).

69.5

In section 429 (Parliamentary control of statutory instruments), in subsection
(2) leave out “or 333T” and insert  “, 333T or 417(5)” .

#### Bank of England levy

##### Bank of England levy

70

70.1

The Bank of England Act 1998 is amended as follows.

70.2

Omit section 6 and Schedule 2 (cash ratio deposits).

70.3

Before section 7 insert—

########### Bank of England levy

70.3.6A

Schedule 2ZA makes provision for the Bank to impose a charge on financial
institutions in connection with the pursuit of its financial stability and
monetary policy objectives.

70.4

Before Schedule 2A (financial policy committee) insert—

  Bank of England levy

Section 6A

############# “The levy”

70.4.1

70.4.1.1

The Bank may impose a charge on eligible institutions in accordance with this
Schedule.

70.4.1.2

The charge is to be known as the Bank of England levy (and is referred to in
this Schedule as “ the levy ”).

############# “Eligible institutions”

70.4.2

70.4.2.1

For the purposes of this Schedule, an “eligible institution” is a person who,
at any time during a levy year, is an authorised deposit-taker.

70.4.2.2

An “authorised deposit-taker” for these purposes is a person who has
permission under Part 4A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 to
accept deposits, other than—

70.4.2.2.a

a credit union;

70.4.2.2.b

a friendly society;

70.4.2.2.c

a person who has such permission only in the course of effecting or carrying
out contracts of insurance in accordance with that permission.

70.4.2.3

In this paragraph—

      “ credit union ” has the meaning given by section 31(1) of the Credit
Unions Act 1979 or Article 2(2) of the Credit Unions (Northern Ireland) Order
1985;           “ friendly society ” means a society that is registered within
the meaning of the Friendly Societies Act 1974 or incorporated under the
Friendly Societies Act 1992;           “ levy year ” has the meaning given by
paragraph  3 .

70.4.2.4

The Treasury may by regulations—

70.4.2.4.a

amend the foregoing provisions of this paragraph;

70.4.2.4.b

amend any other provision of this Schedule in consequence of provision made
under paragraph  (a) .

############# “Levy year”

70.4.3

70.4.3.1

For the purposes of this Schedule, a “levy year” is—

70.4.3.1.a

the period of 12 months beginning on such day as the Bank may determine, and

70.4.3.1.b

each subsequent period of 12 months.

70.4.3.2

The day determined under sub-paragraph  (1)(a)  may not be before the day on
which the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 is passed.

############# “Anticipated levy requirement”

70.4.4

70.4.4.1

The Bank must, in respect of a levy year—

70.4.4.1.a

determine which of its policy functions it intends to fund (in whole or in
part) by means of the levy;

70.4.4.1.b

determine the total amount of the levy it reasonably considers it requires in
connection with the funding of those functions (“the anticipated levy
requirement”).

70.4.4.2

The Bank may add to the anticipated levy requirement for a levy year such
amount (if any) that—

70.4.4.2.a

was required in connection with the funding of policy functions in the
previous levy year, and

70.4.4.2.b

was in excess of the total amount of the levy that it received in respect of
that previous levy year.

70.4.4.3

For the purposes of this Schedule, a function of the Bank is a “policy
function” if it is exercised in pursuit of—

70.4.4.3.a

the Financial Stability Objective (see section 2A), or

70.4.4.3.b

its objectives in relation to monetary policy (see section 11).

70.4.4.4

In making a determination in accordance with sub-paragraph  (1) , the Bank
must take account of any other amounts which are, or are likely to be,
available in the levy year to fund policy functions (for example, amounts of
the levy received in respect of a previous levy year or amounts available from
sources other than the levy).

70.4.4.5

The Bank must publish a determination made in accordance with sub-paragraph
(1) —

70.4.4.5.a

at such time before or during the levy year to which the determination relates
as the Bank considers appropriate, and

70.4.4.5.b

in such manner as the Bank considers appropriate.

70.4.4.6

The reference in sub-paragraph  (3)  to the exercise of a function includes
anything done in preparation for, to facilitate, or otherwise in connection
with, the exercise of the function.

############# Liability to pay the levy

70.4.5

70.4.5.1

The amount of the levy that an eligible institution is liable to pay in
respect of a levy year is to be determined by the Bank in accordance with
regulations made by the Treasury.

70.4.5.2

Regulations under sub-paragraph  (1)  may—

70.4.5.2.a

make provision by reference to the Bank’s anticipated levy requirement in
respect of the levy year (see paragraph  4 );

70.4.5.2.b

make provision by reference to specified liabilities of an eligible
institution;

70.4.5.2.c

make provision for cases in which no amount of the levy or a reduced amount of
the levy is payable.

70.4.5.3

Regulations made by virtue of sub-paragraph  (2)(b)  may include (among other
things) provision—

70.4.5.3.a

specifying types of liability that may or may not be taken into account for
specified purposes;

70.4.5.3.b

about how and when liabilities of a specified type are to be taken into
account for specified purposes;

70.4.5.3.c

about how the amount of a liability of a specified type is to be determined,
including specifying times, or periods of time, by reference to which the
amount is to be determined;

70.4.5.3.d

for an amount of a liability of a specified type to be treated as reduced by
the amount of assets of a specified type.

70.4.5.4

Regulations under sub-paragraph  (1)  may include provision conferring a
discretion on the Bank to determine specified matters (including matters
mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2)(b)  or  (3) ).

70.4.5.5

Regulations made by virtue of sub-paragraph  (4)  may, in particular, confer a
discretion—

70.4.5.5.a

to determine the method used to determine a matter, and

70.4.5.5.b

to determine different methods to be used in relation to different eligible
institutions.

70.4.5.6

In this section, “ specified ” means specified in the regulations.

############# Payment of the levy

70.4.6

70.4.6.1

The Bank must notify each eligible institution that is liable to pay the levy
in respect of a levy year of the following matters—

70.4.6.1.a

the levy year in respect of which the levy is payable;

70.4.6.1.b

the amount of the levy the institution is liable to pay;

70.4.6.1.c

the time by which the levy must be paid (or, if the Bank determines that the
levy may be paid in instalments, the times by which each instalment must be
paid);

70.4.6.1.d

the methods by which the levy may be paid.

70.4.6.2

A time notified in accordance with sub-paragraph  (1)(c)  (or if more than one
time is notified, the earliest of them) may not be before the end of the
period of 30 days beginning with the day on which the notification is given.

70.4.6.3

Notification may be given in such form or in such manner as the Bank considers
appropriate (and may be given in a different form or manner to different
eligible institutions or eligible institutions of a different description).

############# Recovery of the levy

70.4.7

The levy is recoverable as a civil debt due to the Bank.

See also paragraph  8  (interest on unpaid amounts of the levy).

############# Interest

70.4.8

70.4.8.1

This paragraph applies where an eligible person has been notified—

70.4.8.1.a

of an amount of the levy that is payable, and

70.4.8.1.b

the time by which the amount must be paid.

70.4.8.2

Interest is payable, at the rate mentioned in sub-paragraph  (3) , on any part
of the amount mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1)(a)  which remains unpaid after
the time mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1)(b) .

70.4.8.3

The rate mentioned in this sub-paragraph is the rate equivalent to an annual
percentage rate of 4% above the benchmark rate.

70.4.8.4

The “benchmark rate” is—

70.4.8.4.a

the percentage rate announced from time to time by the Monetary Policy
Committee of the Bank as the official dealing rate, or

70.4.8.4.b

where an order under section 19 (Treasury reserve powers) is in force, any
equivalent percentage rate determined by the Treasury under that order.

70.4.8.5

The Treasury may by regulations amend this paragraph so as to change the rate
of interest payable on an unpaid amount of the levy.

############# Power to obtain information

70.4.9

70.4.9.1

The Bank may, by written notice, require an eligible institution to provide
information or documents in connection with the levy.

70.4.9.2

The notice must specify—

70.4.9.2.a

the information required;

70.4.9.2.b

the form or manner in which the information must be provided;

70.4.9.2.c

the time at which, or period within which, the information must be provided;

70.4.9.2.d

the period to which the information must relate.

############# Regulations

70.4.10

70.4.10.1

Before making regulations under this Schedule the Treasury must consult—

70.4.10.1.a

the Bank, and

70.4.10.1.b

such other persons who appear to the Treasury to be representative of persons
who are likely to be affected by the regulations.

70.4.10.2

When making regulations under this Schedule the Treasury must have regard to
the financial needs of the Bank.

70.4.10.3

Regulations under this Schedule are to be made by statutory instrument.

70.4.10.4

Regulations under this Schedule may—

70.4.10.4.a

make different provision for different purposes;

70.4.10.4.b

make incidental, supplemental, consequential, saving or transitional
provision.

70.4.10.5

A statutory instrument containing (whether alone or with other provision)
regulations under paragraphs  2(4)  or  5(1)  may not be made unless a draft
of the instrument has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each
House of Parliament.

70.4.10.6

A statutory instrument containing only regulations under paragraph  8(5)  is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

##### Bank of England levy: consequential amendments

71

71.1

The Bank of England Act 1998 is amended as follows in consequence of provision
made by section 70.

71.2

In section 37 (restriction on disclosure of information), for “cash ratio
deposit” substitute  “Bank of England levy” .

71.3

In section 38 (offences in relation to supplying information to the Bank), in
each of subsections (1) and (3), for “paragraph 9 of Schedule 2” substitute
“paragraph  9  of Schedule 2ZA” .

71.4

In section 40 (orders)—

71.4.a

in subsection (2)—

71.4.a.i

after “section 17(4) or (5),” insert  “or” ;

71.4.a.ii

omit “paragraph 1(2) or 5 of Schedule 2, or”;

71.4.b

in subsection (3) omit “paragraph 2(2) or 8 of Schedule 2,”.

71.5

Schedule 7 (restriction on disclosure of information) is amended in accordance
with subsections  (6)  to  (8) .

71.6

In paragraph 1(1)(a), for “paragraph 9 of Schedule 2” substitute  “paragraph
9  of Schedule 2ZA” .

71.7

In paragraph 2(1)(c), for “Schedule 2” substitute  “Schedule 2ZA” .

71.8

In paragraph 5(a), for “Schedule 2 (payment in lieu of cash ratio deposit)”
substitute  “Schedule 2ZA (Bank of England levy)” .

#### Other miscellaneous provisions

##### Liability of payment service providers for fraudulent transactions

72

72.1

The Payment Systems Regulator must prepare and publish a draft of a relevant
requirement for reimbursement in such qualifying cases of payment orders as
the Regulator considers should be eligible for reimbursement.

72.2

A case is a “ qualifying case ” for the purposes of this section if—

72.2.a

the case relates to a payment order executed over the Faster Payments Scheme,
and

72.2.b

the payment order was executed subsequent to fraud or dishonesty.

72.3

The draft of the relevant requirement must—

72.3.a

be published in the way appearing to the Payment Systems Regulator to be best
calculated to bring it to the attention of the public;

72.3.b

be accompanied by notice that representations about the proposed relevant
requirement may be made to the Payment Systems Regulator within a specified
time.

72.4

The duty imposed by subsection (1) must be carried out before the end of two
months beginning with the day on which this section comes into force.

72.5

The Payment Systems Regulator must impose a relevant requirement, in whatever
way and to whatever extent it considers appropriate, for reimbursement to be
made in qualifying cases of payment orders.

72.6

In complying with the duty imposed by subsection (5) the Payment Systems
Regulator must have regard to any representations made in accordance with
subsection (3)(b).

72.7

The duty imposed by subsection (5) must be carried out before the end of 6
months beginning with the day on which this section comes into force.

72.8

The duty under subsections (1) to (3), and under section 104(2) of the
Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013 in the application of that
section to a relevant requirement imposed under subsection (5) of this
section, may be satisfied by things done before (as well as after) this
section comes into force.

72.9

Nothing in subsections (1) to (8) is to be taken as limiting the power of the
Payment Systems Regulator—

72.9.a

to vary or revoke a relevant requirement imposed under the duty imposed by
subsection (5), or

72.9.b

to impose further relevant requirements (after that duty is complied with) in
connection with reimbursement of payment orders executed subsequent to fraud
or dishonesty.

72.10

In subsections (1) to (9)—

      “ the Faster Payments Scheme ” means the payment system, known as the
Faster Payments Scheme, designated as a regulated payment system for the
purposes of Part 5 of the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013 by
order made by the Treasury in exercise of the power conferred by section 43(1)
of that Act;           “ relevant requirement ” means a requirement imposed by
or under section 54 or 55 of the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013
(or by or under a combination of those sections).

72.11

In regulation 90 of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/752 )
(liability of payment service providers for incorrect unique identifiers),
after paragraph (5) insert—

72.11.6

Nothing in this regulation affects the liability of a payment service provider
under a relevant requirement in a case where the payment order is executed
subsequent to fraud or dishonesty (and the requirements imposed by this
regulation are subject to any such relevant requirements).

72.11.7

In this regulation, a “ relevant requirement ” means a requirement imposed by
or under—

72.11.7.a

a direction given under regulation 125,

72.11.7.b

a direction given under section 54 of the Financial Services (Banking Reform)
Act 2013,

72.11.7.c

a rule made under section 55 of that Act,

72.11.7.d

an order made under section 56(3) of that Act, or

72.11.7.e

a variation of an agreement under section 57(2) of that Act.

##### Credit unions

73

Schedule 14 amends the Credit Unions Act 1979 to make provision about
additional financial activities credit unions may choose to carry on.

##### Reinsurance for acts of terrorism

74

74.1

The Reinsurance (Acts of Terrorism) Act 1993 is amended as follows.

74.2

After section 2, insert—

########### Directions

74.2.2A

74.2.2A.1

A relevant person must comply with any directions given to it by the Treasury
under this section.

74.2.2A.2

For the purposes of this section, a “ relevant person ” means—

74.2.2A.2.a

a person who—

74.2.2A.2.a.i

has entered into arrangements to which this Act applies (see section 2(1))
(whether before or after the passing of this Act), and

74.2.2A.2.a.ii

has been classified as a public sector body by the Office for National
Statistics (whether before or after the passing of this Act), or

74.2.2A.2.b

a group undertaking of a person falling within paragraph (a) (within the
meaning of section 1161 of the Companies Act 2006).

74.2.2A.3

The Treasury may direct a relevant person to appoint a person to perform the
functions of an accounting officer.

74.2.2A.4

The Treasury may give a direction to a relevant person under this subsection
if the Treasury consider it necessary for the purpose of ensuring compliance
with any requirements associated with the classification, as mentioned in
subsection (2)(a)(ii), of a person falling within subsection (2)(a).

74.2.2A.5

Directions under subsection (4) may include provision about compliance with
requirements relating to—

74.2.2A.5.a

auditing;

74.2.2A.5.b

accounting;

74.2.2A.5.c

budgeting;

74.2.2A.5.d

arm’s length bodies;

74.2.2A.5.e

public sector bodies.

74.2.2A.6

Before giving a direction under this section the Treasury must consult the
relevant person to whom the Treasury intend to give a direction.

74.2.2A.7

A direction under this section must be accompanied by a notice that—

74.2.2A.7.a

states when the direction takes effect (see subsection  (8) ), and

74.2.2A.7.b

gives the Treasury’s reasons for giving the direction.

74.2.2A.8

A direction may, if the Treasury reasonably consider it necessary, take
effect—

74.2.2A.8.a

immediately it is given to the relevant person, or

74.2.2A.8.b

on a later date specified in the direction.

74.2.2A.9

A direction may be given so as to have effect—

74.2.2A.9.a

for a specified period, or

74.2.2A.9.b

until the occurrence of a specified event.

74.2.2A.10

A direction under this section must be given in writing.

74.2.2A.11

A direction under this section must—

74.2.2A.11.a

be published in whatever manner the Treasury consider appropriate, and

74.2.2A.11.b

be laid before Parliament.

74.2.2A.12

A direction under this section may be varied or revoked by another direction
under this section.

########### Compliance

74.2.2B

74.2.2B.1

Compliance with a direction given under section 2A is enforceable—

74.2.2B.1.a

by injunction, or

74.2.2B.1.b

in Scotland, by interdict or by an order for specific performance under
section 45 of the Court of Session Act 1988.

74.2.2B.2

Proceedings under subsection (1) may be brought only by the Treasury.

##### Banking Act 2009: miscellaneous amendments

75

75.1

The Banking Act 2009 is amended as follows.

75.2

In section 7A (effect on other group members, financial stability in UK etc)—

75.2.a

in subsection (1), for “(4)(b)(ii)” substitute  “(4), (4B)(b),” ;

75.2.b

after subsection (1) insert—

75.2.b.1A

Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to a requirement under section 3A(4)
for a person to maintain (but not issue) a particular kind of bail-in
liability.

75.3

In section 83ZD (appointment of person to carry out investigations in
particular cases), in subsection (3)(a), for “83ZN” substitute  “83ZR” .

75.4

In section 89H (recognition of third-country resolution actions), in
subsection (7), in the definition of “third-country resolution action”—

75.4.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for “, third country parent undertaking or
a bank, building society, credit union or investment firm” substitute  “or
third-country parent undertaking” ;

75.4.b

in paragraph (a), omit “or a bank, building society, credit union or
investment firm”.

75.5

In section 182 (interpretation: “payment system”)—

75.5.a

in subsection (1), after “arrangements” insert  “, or proposed arrangements,”
;

75.5.b

in subsection (5), after “operates” insert  “, or is intended to operate,” .

75.6

In section 244 (immunity), in subsection (2)(c) after “2000,” insert  “of its
functions under, or as a result of regulations made under, the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2023,” .

##### Arrangements for the investigation of complaints

76

76.1

The Financial Services Act 2012 is amended in accordance with subsections (2)
and (3).

76.2

In section 84 (arrangements for the investigation of complaints)—

76.2.a

omit the “and” at the end of subsection (1)(a);

76.2.b

omit subsection (1)(b);

76.2.c

after subsection (1) insert—

76.2.c.1A

The Treasury must appoint an independent person (“the investigator”) to be
responsible for the conduct of investigations in accordance with the
complaints scheme.

;

76.2.d

omit subsection (4);

76.2.e

in subsection (5), in the opening words, for “regulators” substitute
“Treasury” .

76.3

In section 87 (investigation of complaints)—

76.3.a

in subsection (9A), after paragraph (b) insert—

76.3.a.ba

for the regulator’s response under paragraph (b) to include a summary of—

76.3.a.ba.i

the cases in which the regulator decided not to follow any relevant
recommendations, and

76.3.a.ba.ii

the reasons for not following those recommendations;

;

76.3.b

in subsection (9B), after paragraph (e) insert—

76.3.b.f

such other matters as the Treasury may from time to time direct.

;

76.3.c

after subsection (9B) insert—

76.3.c.9C

In subsection (9A)(ba) the reference to “ relevant recommendations ”, in
relation to the regulator’s response in respect of an annual report, is a
reference to—

76.3.c.9C.a

any recommendations to the regulator contained in that annual report, and

76.3.c.9C.b

any recommendations to the regulator contained in final reports relating to
individual complaints given during the period to which that annual report
relates.

##### Politically exposed persons: money laundering and terrorist financing

77

77.1

The Treasury must exercise the power conferred by section 49 of the Sanctions
and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018 (power of appropriate Minister to make
regulations about money laundering etc) for the purpose mentioned in
subsection (2).

77.2

The purpose is to make provision amending Part 3 of the Money Laundering,
Terrorist Financing and Transfer of Funds (Information on the Payer)
Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/692 ) (“ the 2017 Regulations ”) (customer due
diligence) so as to secure the result required by subsection (3).

77.3

The result required by this subsection is that, where a customer is a domestic
PEP, or a family member or a known close associate of a domestic PEP—

77.3.a

the starting point for the relevant person’s assessment under regulation 35(3)
of the 2017 Regulations is that the customer presents a lower level of risk
than a non-domestic PEP, and

77.3.b

if no enhanced risk factors are present, the extent of enhanced customer due
diligence measures to be applied in relation to that customer is less than the
extent to be applied in the case of a non-domestic PEP.

77.4

In this section—

77.4.a

“ customer ” includes a potential customer;

77.4.b

“ domestic PEP ” means a politically exposed person entrusted with prominent
public functions by the United Kingdom;

77.4.c

“ enhanced risk factors ”, in relation to a customer who is a domestic PEP or
a family member or a known close associate of that domestic PEP, mean risk
factors other than the customer’s position as a domestic PEP or as a family
member or known close associate of that domestic PEP;

77.4.d

“ non-domestic PEP ” means a politically exposed person who is not a domestic
PEP;

77.4.e

the following terms have the same meaning as in regulation 35(12) of the 2017
Regulations—

      “politically exposed person” or “PEP”;           “family member”;
“known close associate”.

77.5

Section 55 of the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018 (Parliamentary
procedure for regulations) does not apply to regulations made in compliance
with the duty imposed by subsection (1).

77.6

Regulations made in compliance with the duty imposed by subsection (1)—

77.6.a

are subject to the negative procedure, and

77.6.b

must be laid before Parliament in accordance with paragraph (a) before the end
of 12 months starting with the day on which this section comes into force.

77.7

The Treasury must, before the end of 6 months starting with the day on which
this section comes into force, lay before Parliament a statement setting out
what progress has been made towards making the regulations in compliance with
the duty imposed by subsection (1).

77.8

The duty in subsection (7) does not apply where the regulations have been laid
before Parliament in accordance with subsection (6)(a) before the end of 6
months starting with the day on which this section comes into force.

##### Politically exposed persons: review of guidance

78

78.1

The FCA must review its guidance on politically exposed persons (“PEPs”) given
under section 139A of FSMA 2000 and in compliance with the requirements under
regulation 48 of the Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and Transfer of
Funds (Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/692 ) (“ the
2017 Regulations ”).

78.2

The review required under subsection (1) must include—

78.2.a

an assessment of the extent to which the guidance is followed by those persons
to whom it is given under regulation 48 of the 2017 Regulations, and

78.2.b

in the light of that assessment, consideration as to whether the guidance
remains appropriate or whether it should be revised.

78.3

The FCA must—

78.3.a

before the end of 3 months beginning with the day on which this section comes
into force, publish an update on the FCA’s plan for the review required under
subsection (1), and

78.3.b

before the end of 12 months beginning with the day on which this section comes
into force—

78.3.b.i

publish the conclusions of the review, and

78.3.b.ii

where the FCA concludes that the guidance should be revised, publish draft
revised guidance for consultation.

78.4

Publication as required by subsection (3) must be in the way appearing to the
FCA to be best calculated to bring the publication to the attention of persons
likely to be affected by it.

78.5

The FCA is not required under this section to publish any information whose
publication would be against the public interest.

78.6

In this section—

78.6.a

“ domestic PEP ” means a politically exposed person entrusted with prominent
public functions by the United Kingdom;

78.6.b

the following terms have the same meaning as in regulation 35(12) of the 2017
Regulations—

      “politically exposed person” or “PEP”;           “family member”;
“known close associate”.

##### Forest risk commodities: review

79

79.1

The Treasury must carry out a review to assess the extent to which regulation
of the UK financial system is adequate for the purpose of eliminating the
financing of the use of prohibited forest risk commodities.

79.2

In subsection (1) the reference to “prohibited” forest risk commodities is a
reference to forest risk commodities, or products derived from forest risk
commodities, the use of which is prohibited by paragraph 2 of Schedule 17 to
the Environment Act 2021.

79.3

Having carried out a review the Treasury must lay before Parliament, and
publish, a report stating—

79.3.a

the conclusions of the review, and

79.3.b

the steps the Treasury consider it appropriate to take to improve the
effectiveness of the regulation of the UK financial system for the purpose
stated in subsection (1).

79.4

Subsection (3) must be complied with before the end of 9 months beginning with
the day on which the first regulations under paragraph 1 of Schedule 17 to the
Environment Act 2021 are made.

79.5

In this section—

      “ forest risk commodities ” has the same meaning as in Schedule 17 to
the Environment Act 2021;           “ UK financial system ” has the same
meaning as in FSMA 2000 (see section 1I of that Act).

### General

#### Interpretation

80

80.1

In this Act—

“ domestic law ” means the law of England and Wales, Scotland or Northern
Ireland; “ enactment ” means an enactment whenever passed or made and
includes— an enactment contained in any Order in Council, order, rules,
regulations, scheme, warrant, byelaw or other instrument made under an Act, an
enactment contained in, or in an instrument made under, an Act of the Scottish
Parliament, an enactment contained in, or in an instrument made under, a
Measure or Act of Senedd Cymru, an enactment contained in, or in an instrument
made under, Northern Ireland legislation, and any   assimilated direct
legislation; “ FCA ” means the Financial Conduct Authority; “ FSMA 2000 ”
means the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000; “ modify ” includes amend,
repeal or revoke (and related expressions are to be read accordingly); “
Payment Systems Regulator ” means the body established under section 40(1) of
the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013; “ PRA ” means the Prudential
Regulation Authority; “ primary legislation ” means— an Act of Parliament, an
Act of the Scottish Parliament, an Act or Measure of Senedd Cymru, or Northern
Ireland legislation; “ subordinate legislation ” means— any Order in Council,
order, rules, regulations, scheme, warrant, byelaw or other instrument made
under any Act, or any instrument made under an Act of the Scottish Parliament,
a Measure or Act of Senedd Cymru or Northern Ireland legislation, and includes
any Order in Council, order, rules, regulations, scheme, warrant, byelaw or
other instrument made on or after IP completion day under any   assimilated
direct   legislation.

80.2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Pre-commencement consultation

81

81.1

Subsection (2) applies to a duty to consult, so far as applying to or in
connection with, or otherwise arising in consequence of, a provision of an
enactment as modified or made—

81.1.a

by or under this Act, or

81.1.b

by or under another Act as amended by this Act.

81.2

The duty to consult may be satisfied by things done before the commencement
date (as well as by things done on or after that date).

81.3

The “ commencement date ”, in relation to a provision of an enactment as
modified or made—

81.3.a

by or under this Act, or

81.3.b

by or under another Act as amended by this Act,

means the date on which the modification or making of that provision comes
into force.

#### Financial provision

82

There is to be paid out of money provided by Parliament any expenditure
incurred by the Treasury for any purpose in connection with this Act.

#### Power to make consequential provision

83

83.1

The Treasury may by regulations make provision that is consequential on this
Act or on any provision made under it.

83.2

The power to make regulations under this section may (among other things) be
exercised by modifying any provision made by or under an enactment (including
this Act).

83.3

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure if
they amend, repeal or revoke any provision of primary legislation.

83.4

Regulations under this section to which subsection (3) does not apply are
subject to the negative procedure.

#### Regulations

84

84.1

Any power to make regulations under this Act is exercisable by statutory
instrument.

84.2

Any power to make regulations under this Act includes power—

84.2.a

to make provision by reference to any rules or other instruments as they have
effect from time to time;

84.2.b

to make different provision for different purposes;

84.2.c

to make supplementary, incidental, consequential, transitional, transitory or
saving provision.

84.3

Where regulations under this Act are subject to “the affirmative procedure”,
the regulations may not be made unless a draft of the statutory instrument
containing them has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each
House of Parliament.

84.4

Where regulations under this Act are subject to “the negative procedure”, the
statutory instrument containing them is subject to annulment in pursuance of a
resolution of either House of Parliament.

84.5

Any provision that may be made by regulations under this Act, or under any
other enactment, subject to the negative procedure may be made in regulations,
made under or by virtue of this Act, subject to the affirmative procedure.

84.6

If an instrument, or a draft of an instrument, containing regulations under
this Act would, apart from this subsection, be treated as a hybrid instrument
for the purposes of the standing orders of either House of Parliament, it is
to proceed in that House as if it were not a hybrid instrument.

84.7

This section does not apply to regulations under section 86, except so far as
making provision by virtue of section 4(1).

#### Extent

85

85.1

This Act extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland except as
provided by subsection (2).

85.2

The following extend to England and Wales and Scotland only—

85.2.a

section 73;

85.2.b

section 74.

85.3

The power under section 430(3) of FSMA 2000 may be exercised so as to extend
to any of the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man any amendment or repeal made
by or under this Act of any part of that Act (with or without modifications).

#### Commencement

86

86.1

The following come into force on the day on which this Act is passed—

86.1.a

this Part;

86.1.b

Part 5 of Schedule 2, and section 2 so far as relating to that Part;

86.1.c

section 20(3), so far as conferring a power to make regulations;

86.1.d

section 24;

86.1.e

section 56 and Schedule 10, so far as conferring power to make regulations;

86.1.f

section 77;

86.1.g

section 78.

86.2

The following provisions come into force two months after Royal Assent—

86.2.a

section 22;

86.2.b

section 52;

86.2.c

section 54;

86.2.d

section 55;

86.2.e

section 58;

86.2.f

section 60;

86.2.g

section 61;

86.2.h

section 62;

86.2.i

section 72;

86.2.j

section 74.

86.3

The rest of this Act comes into force on such day as the Treasury may by
regulations appoint.

86.4

Different days may be appointed for different purposes.

86.5

The Treasury may by regulations make transitional or saving provision in
connection with the coming into force of any provision of this Act.

86.6

The power to make regulations under subsection  (5)  includes power to make
different provision for different purposes.

86.7

Regulations under this section are to be made by statutory instrument.

#### Short title

87

This Act may be cited as the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023.

## SCHEDULES

Revocation of   assimilated   law relating to financial services

Section 1

#####  

Regulation  (EC) No 924/2009  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
16 September 2009 on cross-border payments in the Community and repealing
Regulation  (EC) No 2560/2001   Regulation  (EC) No 1060/2009  of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009 on credit rating agencies
Regulation (EU) No 513/2011  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
11 May 2011 amending Regulation  (EC) No 1060/2009  on credit rating agencies
Regulation (EU) No 236/2012  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
14 March 2012 on short selling and certain aspects of credit default swaps
Regulation (EU) No 260/2012  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
14 March 2012 establishing technical and business requirements for credit
transfers and direct debits in euro and amending Regulation  (EC) No 924/2009
Regulation (EU) No 648/2012  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
4 July 2012 on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories
Regulation (EU) No 345/2013  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
17 April 2013 on European venture capital funds Regulation (EU) No 346/2013
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2013 on European
social entrepreneurship funds Regulation (EU) No 462/2013  of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 amending Regulation  (EC) No
1060/2009  on credit rating agencies Regulation (EU) No 575/2013  of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential
requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and amending
Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 Regulation (EU) No 248/2014  of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 amending  Regulation (EU) No
260/2012  as regards the migration to Union-wide credit transfers and direct
debits Regulation (EU) No 596/2014  of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 16 April 2014 on market abuse (market abuse regulation) and
repealing  Directive 2003/6/EC  of the European Parliament and of the Council
and  Commission Directives 2003/124/EC ,  2003/125/EC  and  2004/72/EC
Regulation (EU) No 600/2014  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending  Regulation (EU)
No 648/2012 Regulation (EU) No 909/2014  of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 23 July 2014 on improving securities settlement in the European
Union and on central securities depositories and amending  Directives 98/26/EC
and  2014/65/EU  and  Regulation (EU) No 236/2012 Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on key
information documents for packaged retail and insurance-based investment
products Regulation (EU) 2015/751  of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 29 April 2015 on interchange fees for card-based payment
transactions Regulation (EU) 2015/760  of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 29 April 2015 on European long-term investment funds Regulation
(EU) 2015/2365  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November
2015 on transparency of securities financing transactions and of reuse and
amending  Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 Regulation (EU) 2016/1011  of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on indices used as
benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts or to measure the
performance of investment funds and amending  Directives 2008/48/EC  and
2014/17/EU  and  Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 Regulation (EU) 2016/1033  of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 23 June 2016 amending  Regulation
(EU) No 600/2014  on markets in financial instruments,  Regulation (EU) No
596/2014  on market abuse and  Regulation (EU) No 909/2014  on improving
securities settlement in the European Union and on central securities
depositories Regulation (EU) 2017/1129  of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 14 June 2017 on the prospectus to be published when securities are
offered to the public or admitted to trading on a regulated market, and
repealing  Directive 2003/71/EC Regulation (EU) 2017/1131  of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 on money market funds Regulation
(EU) 2017/2401  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December
2017 amending  Regulation (EU) No 575/2013  on prudential requirements for
credit institutions and investment firms Regulation (EU) 2017/2402  of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 laying down a
general framework for securitisation and creating a specific framework for
simple, transparent and standardised securitisation, and amending  Directives
2009/65/EC ,  2009/138/EC  and  2011/61/EU  and Regulations  (EC) No 1060/2009
and  (EU) No 648/2012 Regulation (EU) 2019/113  of the European Central Bank
of 7 December 2018 amending  Regulation (EU) No 1333/2014  concerning
statistics on the money markets (ECB/2018/33) Regulation (EU) 2019/630  of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 amending  Regulation
(EU) No 575/2013  as regards minimum loss coverage for non-performing
exposures Regulation (EU) 2019/876  of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 20 May 2019 amending  Regulation (EU) No 575/2013  as regards the
leverage ratio, the net stable funding ratio, requirements for own funds and
eligible liabilities, counterparty credit risk, market risk, exposures to
central counterparties, exposures to collective investment undertakings, large
exposures, reporting and disclosure requirements, and  Regulation (EU) No
648/2012 Regulation (EU) 2019/2088  of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 27 November 2019 on sustainability-related disclosures in the
financial services sector Regulation (EU) 2019/2155  of the European Central
Bank of 5 December 2019 amending  Regulation (EU) No 1163/2014  on supervisory
fees (ECB/2019/37) Regulation (EU) 2019/2175  of the European Parliament and
of the Council of 18 December 2019 amending  Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010
establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority),
Regulation (EU) No 1094/2010  establishing a European Supervisory Authority
(European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority),  Regulation (EU) No
1095/2010  establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities
and Markets Authority),  Regulation (EU) No 600/2014  on markets in financial
instruments,  Regulation (EU) 2016/1011  on indices used as benchmarks in
financial instruments and financial contracts or to measure the performance of
investment funds, and  Regulation (EU) 2015/847  on information accompanying
transfers of funds Regulation (EU) 2020/605  of the European Central Bank of 9
April 2020 amending  Regulation (EU) 2015/534  on reporting of supervisory
financial information (ECB/2020/22) Regulation (EU) 2020/852  of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2020 on the establishment of a
framework to facilitate sustainable investment

##### Subordinate legislation

Official Listing of Securities (Change of Competent Authority) Regulations
1991 ( S.I. 1991/2000 ) Credit Institutions (Protection of Depositors)
Regulations 1995 ( S.I. 1995/1442 ) Financial Markets and Insolvency
(Settlement Finality) Regulations 1999 ( S.I. 1999/2979 ) Official Listing of
Securities (Change of Competent Authority) Regulations 2000 ( S.I. 2000/968 )
Financial Markets and Insolvency (Settlement Finality) (Revocation)
Regulations 2001 ( S.I. 2001/1349 ) Financial Services (EEA Passport Rights)
Regulations 2001 ( S.I. 2001/1376 ) Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
(Communications by Auditors) Regulations 2001 ( S.I. 2001/2587 ) Public Offers
of Securities (Exemptions) Regulations 2001 ( S.I. 2001/2955 ) Financial
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Official Listing of Securities) Regulations
2001 ( S.I. 2001/2956 ) Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Official
Listing of Securities) (Transitional Provisions) Order 2001 ( S.I. 2001/2957 )
Electronic Commerce Directive (Financial Services and Markets) Regulations
2002 ( S.I. 2002/1775 ) Electronic Commerce Directive (Financial Services and
Markets) (Amendment) Regulations ( S.I. 2002/2015 ) Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (Fourth Motor Insurance Directive) Regulations 2002 ( S.I.
2002/2706 ) Insurance Mediation Directive (Miscellaneous Amendments)
Regulations 2003 ( S.I. 2003/1473 ) Collective Investment Schemes
(Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2003 ( S.I. 2003/2066 ) Financial
Collateral Arrangements (No.2) Regulations 2003 ( S.I. 2003/3226 ) Insurers
(Reorganisation and Winding Up) Regulations 2004 ( S.I. 2004/353 ) Credit
Institutions (Reorganisation and Winding up) Regulations 2004 ( S.I. 2004/1045
) Financial Conglomerates and Other Financial Groups Regulations 2004 ( S.I.
2004/1862 ) Financial Services (Distance Marketing) Regulations 2004 ( S.I.
2004/2095 ) Life Assurance Consolidation Directive (Consequential Amendments)
Regulations 2004 ( S.I. 2004/3379 ) Building Societies Act 1986 (International
Accounting Standards and Other Accounting Amendments) Order 2004 ( S.I.
2004/3380 ) Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Market Abuse) Regulations
2005 ( S.I. 2005/381 ) Prospectus Regulations 2005 ( S.I. 2005/1433 ) Insurers
(Reorganisation and Winding Up) (Lloyd‘s) Regulations 2005 ( S.I. 2005/1998 )
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Markets in Financial Instruments)
(Modification of Powers) Regulations 2006 ( S.I. 2006/2975 ) Financial
Services (EEA State) Regulations 2007 ( S.I. 2007/108 ) Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (Markets in Financial Instruments) Regulations 2007 ( S.I.
2007/126 ) Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Markets in Financial
Instruments) (Amendment No. 2) Regulations 2007 ( S.I. 2007/2160 ) Financial
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Motor Insurance) Regulations 2007 ( S.I.
2007/2403 ) Reinsurance Directive Regulations 2007 ( S.I. 2007/3253 )
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Reinsurance Directive) Order 2007 (
S.I. 2007/3254 ) Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Reinsurance
Directive) Regulations 2007 ( S.I. 2007/3255 ) Regulated Covered Bonds
Regulations 2008 ( S.I 2008/346 ) Friendly Societies Act 1992 (Accounts, Audit
and EEA State Amendments) Order 2008 ( S.I. 2008/1140 ) Building Societies
(Accounts and Related Provisions) (Amendment) Regulations 2008 ( S.I.
2008/1143 ) Friendly Societies (Accounts and Related Provisions) (Amendment)
Regulations 2008 ( S.I. 2008/1144 ) Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
(Market Abuse) Regulations 2008 ( S.I. 2008/1439 ) The Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (Amendment of section 323) Regulations 2008 ( S.I. 2008/1469
) Building Societies Act 1986 (Accounts, Audit and EEA State Amendments) Order
2008 ( S.I. 2008/1519 ) Regulated Covered Bonds (Amendment) Regulations 2008 (
S.I. 2008/1714 ) Insurance Accounts Directive (Lloyd’s Syndicate and Aggregate
Accounts) Regulations 2008 ( S.I. 2008/1950 ) Definition of Financial
Instrument Order 2008 ( S.I. 2008/3053 ) Takeover Code (Concert Parties)
Regulations 2008 ( S.I. 2008/3073 ) Payment Services Regulations 2009 ( S.I.
2009/209 ) Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Controllers) Regulations
2009 ( S.I. 2009/534 ) Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Amendment)
Regulations 2009 ( S.I. 2009/2461 ) Payment Services (Amendment) Regulations
2009 ( S.I. 2009/2475 ) Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Law
Applicable to Contracts of Insurance) Regulations 2009 ( S.I. 2009/3075 )
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Market Abuse) Regulations 2009 ( S.I.
2009/3128 ) Credit Rating Agencies Regulations 2010 ( S.I. 2010/906 ) Consumer
Credit (EU Directive) Regulations 2010 ( S.I. 2010/1010 ) Consumer Credit
(Disclosure of Information) Regulations 2010 ( S.I. 2010/1013 ) Consumer
Credit (Agreements) Regulations 2010 ( S.I. 2010/1014 ) Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (Amendments to Part 18A etc) Regulations 2010 ( S.I.
2010/1193 ) Consumer Credit (Amendment) Regulations 2010 ( S.I. 2010/1969 )
Consumer Credit (Amendment) Regulations 2011 ( S.I. 2011/11 ) Electronic Money
Regulations 2011 ( S.I. 2011/99 ) Undertakings for Collective Investment in
Transferable Securities Regulations 2011 ( S.I. 2011/1613 ) Prospectus
Regulations 2011 ( S.I. 2011/1668 ) Recognised Auction Platforms Regulations
2011 ( S.I. 2011/2699 ) Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Market Abuse)
Regulations 2011 ( S.I. 2011/2928 ) Financial Services (Omnibus 1 Directive)
Regulations 2012 ( S.I. 2012/916 ) Prospectus Regulations 2012 ( S.I.
2012/1538 ) Payment Services Regulations 2012 ( S.I. 2012/1791 ) Financial
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) (Amendment) Order 2012 (
S.I. 2012/1906 ) Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable
Securities (Amendment) Regulations 2012 ( S.I 2012/2015 ) Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 (Short Selling) Regulations 2012 ( S.I. 2012/2554 )
Payments in Euro (Credit Transfers and Direct Debits) Regulations 2012 ( S.I
2012/3122 ) Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Qualifying Provisions)
Order 2013 ( S.I. 2013/419 ) Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Over the
Counter Derivatives, Central Counterparties and Trade Repositories)
Regulations 2013 ( S.I. 2013/504 ) Prospectus Regulations 2013 ( S.I.
2013/1125 ) Financial Conglomerates and Other Financial Groups (Amendment)
Regulations 2013 ( S.I. 2013/1162 ) Collective Investment in Transferable
Securities (Contractual Scheme) Regulations 2013 ( S.I. 2013/1388 ) Credit
Rating Agencies (Civil Liability) Regulations 2013 ( S.I. 2013/1637 )
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Regulations 2013 ( S.I. 2013/1773 )
Alternative Investment Fund Managers (Amendment) Regulations 2013 ( S.I.
2013/1797 ) Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities)
(Amendment) (No. 2) Order 2013 ( S.I. 2013/1881 ) Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (Over the Counter Derivatives, Central Counterparties and
Trade Repositories) (No. 2) Regulations 2013 ( S.I. 2013/1908 ) Companies and
Partnerships (Accounts and Audit) Regulations 2013 ( S.I. 2013/2005 ) Capital
Requirements Regulations 2013 ( S.I. 2013/3115 ) Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (Qualifying Provisions) (No.2) Order 2013 ( S.I. 2013/3116 )
Capital Requirements (Country-by-Country Reporting) Regulations 2013 ( S.I.
2013/3118 ) Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Consumer Credit)
(Miscellaneous Provisions) Order 2014 ( S.I. 2014/208 ) Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (Consumer Credit) (Miscellaneous Provisions) (No. 2) Order
2014 ( S.I. 2014/506 ) Capital Requirements (Capital Buffers and Macro-
prudential Measures) Regulations 2014 ( S.I. 2014/894 ) Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (Over the Counter Derivatives, Central Counterparties and
Trade Repositories) (Amendment) Regulations 2014 ( S.I. 2014/905 ) Alternative
Investment Fund Managers Order 2014 ( S.I. 2014/1292 ) Central Securities
Depositories Regulations 2014 ( S.I. 2014/2879 ) Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (Market Abuse) Regulations 2014 ( S.I. 2014/3081 ) Payments
to Governments and Miscellaneous Provisions Regulations 2014 ( S.I. 2014/3293
) Bank Recovery and Resolution Order 2014 ( S.I. 2014/3329 ) Banking Act 2009
(Mandatory Compensation Arrangements Following Bail-in) Regulations 2014 (
S.I. 2014/3330 ) Building Societies (Bail-in) Order 2014 ( S.I. 2014/3344 )
Bank Recovery and Resolution (No. 2) Order 2014 ( S.I. 2014/3348 ) Banking Act
2009 (Restriction of Special Bail-in Provision, etc.) Order 2014 ( S.I.
2014/3350 ) Banks and Building Societies (Depositor Preference and Priorities)
Order 2014 ( S.I. 2014/3486 ) Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Over
the Counter Derivatives, Central Counterparties and Trade Repositories)
(Amendment) Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/348 ) Payment Services (Amendment)
Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/422 ) Deposit Guarantee Scheme Regulations 2015 (
S.I. 2015/486 ) Solvency 2 Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/575 ) Mortgage Credit
Directive Order 2015 ( S.I. 2015/910 ) Transparency Regulations 2015 ( S.I.
2015/1755 ) Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities)
(Amendment) (No. 3) Order 2015 ( S.I. 2015/1863 ) European Long-term
Investment Funds Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/1882 ) Payment Card Interchange
Fee Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/1911 ) Payment Accounts Regulations 2015 (
S.I 2015/2038 ) Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable
Securities Regulations 2016 ( S.I. 2016/225 ) Financial Services and Markets
Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) (Amendment) Order 2016 ( S.I. 2016/392 )
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Market Abuse) Regulations 2016 ( S.I.
2016/680 ) Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Transparency of Securities
Financing Transactions and of Reuse) Regulations 2016 ( S.I 2016/715 )
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Qualifying EU Provisions) (Amendment)
Order 2016 ( S.I. 2016/936 ) Financial Services and Markets (Disclosure of
Information to the European Securities and Markets Authority etc. and Other
Provisions) Regulations 2016 ( S.I. 2016/1095 ) Companies Act 2006
(Distributions of Insurance Companies) Regulations 2016 ( S.I. 2016/1194 )
Bank Recovery and Resolution Order 2016 ( S.I. 2016/1239 ) Financial Services
& Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) (Amendment) Order 2017 ( 2017/488 )
Data Reporting Services Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/699 ) Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 (Markets in Financial Instruments) Regulations 2017 (
S.I. 2017/701 ) Payment Services Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/752 ) Central
Securities Depositories Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/1064 ) Packaged Retail
and Insurance-based Investment Products Regulations 2017 ( S.I 2017/1127 )
Payment Systems and Services and Electronic Money (Miscellaneous Amendments)
Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/1173 ) Risk Transformation Regulations 2017 (
S.I. 2017/1212 ) Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Markets in Financial
Instruments) (No.2) Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/1255 ) Alternative Investment
Fund Managers (Amendment) Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/134 ) Financial
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Benchmarks) Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/135 )
Insurance Distribution (Regulated Activities and Miscellaneous Amendments)
Order 2018 ( S.I. 2018/546 ) Money Market Funds Regulations 2018 ( S.I.
2018/698 ) Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Prospectus and Markets in
Financial Instruments) Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/786 ) Consumer Credit
(Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/1038 ) Friendly Societies
(Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/1039 ) Financial
Regulators’ Powers (Technical Standards etc.) (Amendment etc.) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/1115 ) EEA Passport Rights (Amendment, etc., and
Transitional Provisions) (EU Exit) Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/1149 ) Central
Counterparties (Amendment, etc., and Transitional Provision) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/1184 ) Building Societies Legislation (Amendment)
(EU Exit) Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/1187 ) Credit Transfers and Direct
Debits in Euro (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/1199 )
Electronic Money, Payment Services and Payment Systems (Amendment and
Transitional Provisions) (EU Exit) Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/1201 ) Banks
and Building Societies (Priorities on Insolvency) Order 2018 ( S.I. 2018/1244
) Deposit Guarantee Scheme and Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/1285 ) Securitisation Regulations 2018 ( S.I.
2018/1288 ) Bank of England (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2018 ( S.I.
2018/1297 ) Trade Repositories (Amendment and Transitional Provision) (EU
Exit) Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/1318 ) Central Securities Depositories
(Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/1320 ) Short Selling
(Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/1321 ) Bank Recovery and
Resolution and Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2018
( S.I. 2018/1394 ) Capital Requirements (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2018
( S.I. 2018/1401 ) Markets in Financial Instruments (Amendment) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/1403 ) Credit Institutions and Insurance
Undertakings Reorganisation and Winding Up (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations
2019 ( S.I. 2019/38 ) Financial Conglomerates and Other Financial Groups
(Amendment etc.) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/264 ) Credit Rating
Agencies (Amendment etc.) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/266 )
Interchange Fee (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/284 )
Market Abuse (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/310 )
Collective Investment Schemes (Amendment etc.) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 (
S.I. 2019/325 ) Alternative Investment Fund Managers (Amendment etc.) (EU
Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/328 ) Venture Capital Funds (Amendment) (EU
Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/333 ) Over the Counter Derivatives, Central
Counterparties and Trade Repositories (Amendment, etc., and Transitional
Provision) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/335 ) Long-term Investment
Funds (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/336 ) Financial
Markets and Insolvency (Amendment and Transitional Provision) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2019 ( S.I 2019/341 ) Social Entrepreneurship Funds (Amendment)
(EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/343 ) Money Market Funds (Amendment)
(EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/394 ) Packaged Retail and Insurance-
based Investment Products (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I
2019/403 ) Financial Services Contracts (Transitional and Saving Provision)
(EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/405 ) Solvency 2 and Insurance
(Amendment, etc.) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/407 ) Equivalence
Determinations for Financial Services and Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment
etc) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/541 ) Transparency of Securities
Financing Transactions and of Reuse (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 (
S.I. 2019/542 ) Financial Services (Distance Marketing) (Amendment and Savings
Provisions) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/574 ) Financial Regulators’
Powers (Technical Standards etc.) and Markets in Financial Instruments
(Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/576 ) Financial Services
(Gibraltar) (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/589 ) Financial
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I.
2019/632 ) Mortgage Credit (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I.
2019/656 ) Benchmarks (Amendment and Transitional Provision) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/657 ) Securitisation (Amendment) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/660 ) Payment Accounts (Amendment) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2019 ( S.I 2019/661 ) Investment Exchanges, Clearing Houses and
Central Securities Depositories (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I.
2019/662 ) Insurance Distribution (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 (
S.I. 2019/663 ) Uncertificated Securities (Amendment and EU Exit) Regulations
2019 ( S.I. 2019/679 ) Gibraltar (Miscellaneous Amendments) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/680 ) Public Record, Disclosure of Information
and Co-operation (Financial Services) (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 (
S.I. 2019/681 ) Official Listing of Securities, Prospectus and Transparency
(Amendment etc.) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/707 ) Financial
Services (Miscellaneous) (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I.
2019/710 ) Financial Services and Markets (Insolvency) (Amendment of
Miscellaneous Enactments) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/755 ) Proxy Advisors
(Shareholders’ Rights) Regulations 2019 ( S.I 2019/926 ) Financial Services
(Miscellaneous) (Amendment) (EU Exit) (No. 2) Regulations 2019 ( S.I.
2019/1010 ) Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Over the Counter
Derivatives, Central Counterparties and Trade Repositories) (Amendment)
Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/1031 ) Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
(Prospectus) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/1043 ) Financial Services
(Electronic Money, Payment Services and Miscellaneous Amendments) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/1212 ) Capital Requirements (Amendment) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/1232 ) Risk Transformation and Solvency 2
(Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/1233 ) Prospectus
(Amendment etc.) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/1234 ) Electronic
Commerce and Solvency 2 (Amendment etc.) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I.
2019/1361 ) Cross-Border Distribution of Funds, Proxy Advisors, Prospectus and
Gibraltar (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/1370 ) Financial
Services (Miscellaneous) (Amendment) (EU Exit) (No. 3) Regulations 2019 ( S.I.
2019/1390 ) Over the Counter Derivatives, Central Counterparties and Trade
Repositories (Amendment, etc., and Transitional Provision) (EU Exit) (No. 2)
Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/1416 ) Financial Services (Consequential
Amendments) Regulations 2020 ( S.I. 2020/56 ) Financial Services and Markets
Act 2000 (Central Counterparties, Investment Exchanges, Prospectus and
Benchmarks) (Amendment) Regulations 2020 ( S.I. 2020/117 ) Financial Services
(Miscellaneous Amendments) (EU Exit) Regulations 2020 ( S.I. 2020/628 ) Over
the Counter Derivatives, Central Counterparties and Trade Repositories
(Amendment, etc., and Transitional Provision) (EU Exit) Regulations 2020 (
S.I. 2020/646 ) Equivalence Determinations for Financial Services (Amendment
etc.) (EU Exit) Regulations 2020 ( S.I. 2020/1055 ) Payment Services and
Electronic Money (Amendment) Regulations 2020 ( S.I. 2020/1275 ) Financial
Services and Economic and Monetary Policy (Consequential Amendments) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2020 ( S.I. 2020/1301 ) Bearer Certificates (Collective Investment
Schemes) Regulations 2020 ( S.I. 2020/1346 ) Bank Recovery and Resolution
(Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2020 ( S.I 2020/1350 ) Securities Financing
Transactions, Securitisation and Miscellaneous Amendments (EU Exit)
Regulations 2020 ( S.I. 2020/1385 ) Financial Holding Companies (Approval
etc.) and Capital Requirements (Capital Buffers and Macro-prudential Measures)
(Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2020 ( S.I. 2020/1406 ) Solvency 2 (Credit
Risk Adjustment) Regulations 2021 ( S.I. 2021/463 ) Capital Requirements
Regulation (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2021 ( S.I. 2021/558 ) Financial
Markets and Insolvency (Transitional Provision) (EU Exit) (Amendment)
Regulations 2021 ( S.I. 2021/782 ) Markets in Financial Instruments,
Benchmarks and Financial Promotions (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2021 (
S.I. 2021/1074 ) Capital Requirements Regulation (Amendment) Regulations 2021
( S.I. 2021/1078 ) Financial Services (Gibraltar) (Amendment) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2021 ( S.I. 2021/1252 ) Financial Services Act 2021 (Prudential
Regulation of Credit Institutions and Investment Firms) (Consequential
Amendments and Miscellaneous Provisions) Regulations 2021 ( S.I. 2021/1376 )
Solvency 2 (Group Supervision) (Amendment) Regulations 2021 ( S.I. 2021/1408 )
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Qualifying Provisions) (Amendment)
Order 2022 ( S.I. 2022/1252 )

##### EU tertiary legislation etc

Any provision made under any of the following EU directives— a Directive
98/26/EC  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 May 1998 on
settlement finality in payment and securities settlement systems; b Directive
2001/24/EC  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 April 2001 on
the reorganisation and winding up of credit institutions; c Directive
2001/34/EC  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 May 2001 on
the admission of securities to official stock exchange listing and on
information to be published on those securities; d Directive 2002/47/EC  of
the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 June 2002 on financial
collateral arrangements; e Directive 2002/65/EC  of the European Parliament
and of the Council of 23 September 2002 concerning the distance marketing of
consumer financial services; f Directive 2002/87/EC  of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2002 on the supplementary
supervision of credit institutions, insurance undertakings and investment
firms in a financial conglomerate; g Directive 2004/109/EC  of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 15 December 2004 on the harmonisation of
transparency requirements in relation to information about issuers whose
securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market; h Directive
2008/48/EC  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2008 on
credit agreements for consumers; i Directive 2009/65/EC  of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009 on the coordination of laws,
regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for
collective investment in transferable securities; j Directive 2009/103/EC  of
the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009 relating to
insurance against civil liability in respect of the use of motor vehicles, and
the enforcement of the obligation to insure against such liability; k
Directive 2009/110/EC  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16
September 2009 on the taking up, pursuit and prudential supervision of the
business of electronic money institutions; l Directive 2009/138/EC  of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the taking-up
and pursuit of the business of Insurance and Reinsurance; m Directive
2011/61/EU  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2011 on
Alternative Investment Fund Managers; n Directive 2011/89/EU  of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 16 November 2011 amending  Directives
98/78/EC ,  2002/87/EC ,  2006/48/EC  and  2009/138/EC  as regards the
supplementary supervision of financial entities in a financial conglomerate; o
Directive 2013/36/EU  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June
2013 on access to the activity of credit institutions and the prudential
supervision of credit institutions and investment firms; p Directive
2014/17/EU  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 February 2014
on credit agreements for consumers relating to residential immovable property;
q Directive 2014/49/EU  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16
April 2014 on deposit guarantee schemes; r Directive 2014/57/EU  of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on criminal sanctions
for market abuse; s Directive 2014/59/EU  of the European Parliament and of
the Council of 15 May 2014 establishing a framework for the recovery and
resolution of credit institutions and investment firms; t Directive 2014/65/EU
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in
financial instruments; u Directive 2014/92/EU  of the European Parliament and
of the Council of 23 July 2014 on the comparability of fees related to payment
accounts, payment account switching and access to payment accounts with basic
features; v Directive (EU) 2015/2366  of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 25 November 2015 on payment services in the internal market; w
Directive (EU) 2016/97  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20
January 2016 on insurance distribution; x Directive (EU) 2016/2341  of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 on the activities
and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision; y
Directive (EU) 2019/2034  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27
November 2019 on the prudential supervision of investment firms.

Any provision made under an instrument listed in Part 1 (including any such
instrument as it had effect in EU law before IP completion day).

Any provision made under an instrument listed in Part 2.

Any technical standards to which Chapter 2A of Part 9A of FSMA 2000 applies.

##### Primary legislation

In FSMA 2000— a section 55J(7A) to (7C); b section 55KA; c section 137A(6) and
(7); d section 137G(6) and (7); e Chapter 2A of Part 9A; f Part 9D; g section
192XA(3) and (4); h section 300H(4) (as inserted by section 11(2) of this
Act); i section 367(3)(za); j paragraph 10(5) of Schedule 17A.

##### Other EU-derived legislation

EU-derived legislation not falling within Parts 1 to 3 so far as relating to
financial services or markets (other than instruments excluded from this Part
by regulations under section 1(5)).

For this purpose— a “ EU-derived legislation ” means— i   assimilated direct
legislation, ii subordinate legislation so far as it contains provision for
the purpose of implementing, or otherwise in relation to, an EU directive or
any other obligation that was created or arose by or under the EU Treaties
before IP completion day, iii subordinate legislation made under section 3, or
iv subordinate legislation made under the European Union (Withdrawal) Act
2018; b EU-derived legislation is to be taken as “relating” to financial
services or markets if its purpose, or one of its main purposes, is for or in
connection with the imposition of requirements on the provision of financial
services or the operation of financial markets or exchanges.

Transitional amendments

Section 2

##### Amendments to the Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation

###### Introductory

1

Regulation (EU) No 600/2014  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments is amended in accordance with
this Part of this Schedule.

###### Transparency requirements for equities

2

In Article 3 (pre-trade transparency requirements), after paragraph 3 insert—

2.4

The FCA may make technical standards to specify—

2.4.a

the range of bid and offer prices, or designated market-maker quotes, to be
made public for each class of financial instrument concerned in accordance
with paragraph 1, and

2.4.b

the depth of trading interest at those prices.

2.5

In making technical standards under paragraph 4 the FCA must take into account
the necessary calibration for the different types of trading systems referred
to in paragraph 2.

3

For Article 4 substitute—

######### Waivers for equity instruments

3.1

The FCA may by rules provide for the obligation for market operators and
investment firms operating a trading venue to make public the information
referred to in Article 3(1) to be waived in such cases as the rules may
specify.

3.2

The power to make rules under paragraph 1 is exercisable only if the FCA
considers that the rules are necessary or expedient for the purpose of
advancing one or more of its operational objectives referred to in section
1B(3) of FSMA.

3.3

Rules under paragraph 1 may impose whatever conditions on the application of
the waiver the FCA considers appropriate.

3.4

The FCA must monitor the application of waivers conferred by rules under
paragraph 1 (in particular the effect of such waivers on price formation and
compliance with any conditions imposed under paragraph 3).

3.5

The FCA may by notice given to a market operator, or an investment firm
operating a trading venue, withdraw a waiver granted by rules made under this
Article if the FCA considers that the waiver is being used—

3.5.a

in a way that deviates from its original purpose, or

3.5.b

to avoid requirements imposed by the rules.

4

After Article 4 insert—

######### Suspension of waivers

4.1

The FCA may direct that a waiver provided for by Article 4 is suspended
(whether entirely or to such an extent as may be specified in the direction)
if it considers that continued use of the waiver would unduly harm price
formation.

4.2

The suspension of a waiver by virtue of a direction under paragraph 1 may not
have effect for a period longer than six months, but this does not prevent the
giving of a further direction under that paragraph by which the suspension is
renewed for a period no longer than six months.

4.3

The FCA may give a direction under paragraph 1 only if it considers that the
direction is necessary to advance the FCA’s integrity objective under section
1D of FSMA.

4.4

In deciding whether to give a direction under paragraph 1 to suspend (or renew
the suspension of) a waiver the FCA must have regard to—

4.4.a

its consumer protection objective under section 1C of FSMA and its competition
objective under section 1E of FSMA,

4.4.b

relevant information produced under Article 3, or under equivalent pre-trading
transparency requirements in other jurisdictions, about the use of the waiver
in the United Kingdom, or under equivalent waiver arrangements in any other
country, in relation to the financial instrument concerned, and

4.4.c

any other relevant information available in relation to trading volumes in the
financial instrument concerned, whether in the United Kingdom or elsewhere.

4.5

The FCA must consult the Treasury before giving a direction under paragraph 1.

4.6

The requirement to consult under paragraph 5 does not apply if the FCA
considers it necessary by reason of urgency to give the direction before such
consultation can be carried out in order to protect—

4.6.a

the transparency of the price formation process, or

4.6.b

the interests of consumers (within the meaning of section 1G of FSMA).

5

Omit Article 5 (volume cap mechanism).

6

6.1

Article 14 (obligation for systematic internalisers to make public firm quotes
in respect of shares etc) is amended as follows.

6.2

In paragraph 6A, omit “referred to in Article 5(3A)”.

6.3

After paragraph 6C insert—

6.3.6D

The reference in paragraph 6A to the “ transitional period ” is a reference
to—

6.3.6D.a

the period of four years beginning with IP completion day; or

6.3.6D.b

the period ending on such day as the Treasury may direct, if that period ends
earlier than the period mentioned in sub-paragraph (a).

6.3.6E

In deciding whether to issue a direction under paragraph 6D(b), the Treasury
must take into account whether the FCA is able to carry out its functions
relating to transparency under this Regulation and its implementing measures.

###### Transparency requirements for fixed income instruments and derivatives etc

7

For Articles 8 to 11 substitute—

########## Pre-trade transparency requirements for fixed income instruments and derivatives etc

7.1

The FCA must by rules impose pre-trade transparency requirements on relevant
persons in respect of the trading of such relevant instruments as the FCA
determines should be subject to the requirements for the purposes of
furthering—

7.1.a

efficient price formation, and

7.1.b

the fair evaluation of financial assets.

7.2

The power to make rules under paragraph 1 is exercisable only if the FCA
considers that the rules are necessary or expedient for the purpose of
advancing one or more of its operational objectives referred to in section
1B(3) of FSMA.

7.3

In making rules under paragraph 1 the FCA must (in particular) have regard to
the impact that requirements imposed by the rules will have on market
liquidity.

7.4

The reference in paragraph 1 to “ pre-trade transparency requirements ” is a
reference to whatever kinds of requirements relating to transparency before
trading that the rules may specify, for example—

7.4.a

requirements to make public matters specified in the rules in respect of the
trading of relevant instruments;

7.4.b

requirements about the means by which, and the times at which, such matters
are to be made public;

7.4.c

requirements for the giving of access to the arrangements employed for the
making of such matters public;

7.4.d

requirements in respect of relevant instruments that are traded in a
standardised and frequent way, if not subject to disclosure requirements of
the kind mentioned in sub-paragraph (a).

7.5

Rules under paragraph 1 may—

7.5.a

impose requirements by reference to the types of trading system used;

7.5.b

impose different requirements in relation to different types of trading
system;

7.5.c

provide for the criteria by which the determination referred to in that
paragraph is to be made.

7.6

In this Article and in Article 9—

“ relevant instruments ” means bonds, structured finance products, emission
allowances, derivatives and instruments included within package orders; “
relevant persons ” means market operators and investment firms operating a
trading venue.

########## Article 8: waivers or suspensions for fixed income instruments and derivatives etc

7.1

Rules under Article 8 may include provision for any requirements imposed by
the rules to be waived in such cases, and to such extent, as may be determined
by or under the rules.

7.2

Rules that include provision under paragraph 1 may impose whatever conditions
on the application of a waiver the FCA considers appropriate.

7.3

The FCA may by notice given to a relevant person withdraw a waiver granted by
virtue of paragraph 1 if the FCA considers that the waiver is being used—

7.3.a

in a way that deviates from its original purpose, or

7.3.b

to avoid requirements provided for in the rules.

7.4

The FCA may by notice suspend requirements imposed by rules under Article 8 in
the case of such relevant instruments, or class of relevant instruments, as
may be specified in the notice.

7.5

A notice under paragraph 4 suspending requirements—

7.5.a

may be given subject to conditions;

7.5.b

must specify the period for which the suspension has effect;

7.5.c

must be published in the manner appearing to the FCA to be best calculated to
bring it to the attention of persons likely to be affected by it;

7.5.d

may be varied or withdrawn by the giving of a further notice (and sub-
paragraph (c) applies to any such notice).

7.6

The power under paragraph 4 to suspend requirements is exercisable only if the
FCA considers that it is necessary to do so to advance the FCA’s integrity
objective under section 1D of FSMA.

7.7

In deciding whether to exercise the power under paragraph 4 to suspend
requirements the FCA must also have regard to—

7.7.a

its consumer protection objective under section 1C of FSMA, and

7.7.b

its competition objective under section 1E of FSMA.

########## Post-trade transparency requirements for fixed income instruments and derivatives etc

7.1

The FCA must by rules impose post-trade transparency requirements on relevant
persons in respect of the trading of such relevant instruments as the FCA
determines should be subject to the requirements for the purposes of
furthering—

7.1.a

efficient price formation, and

7.1.b

the fair evaluation of financial assets.

7.2

The power to make rules under paragraph 1 is exercisable only if the FCA
considers that the rules are necessary or expedient for the purpose of
advancing one or more of its operational objectives referred to in section
1B(3) of FSMA.

7.3

In making rules under paragraph 1 the FCA must (in particular) have regard to
the impact that requirements imposed by the rules will have on market
liquidity.

7.4

The reference in paragraph 1 to “ post-trade transparency requirements ” is a
reference to whatever kinds of requirements relating to transparency after the
execution of trades that the rules may specify, for example—

7.4.a

requirements to make public matters specified in the rules in respect of the
trading of relevant instruments (including the price, volume and time of
transactions);

7.4.b

requirements about the means by which, and the times at which, such matters
are to be made public;

7.4.c

requirements for the giving of access to the arrangements employed for the
making of such matters public.

7.5

Rules under paragraph 1 may—

7.5.a

impose requirements by reference to the types of trading system used;

7.5.b

impose different requirements in relation to different types of trading
system;

7.5.c

provide for the criteria by which the determination referred to in that
paragraph is to be made.

7.6

In this Article and in Article 11—

“ relevant instruments ” means bonds, structured finance products, emission
allowances, derivatives and instruments included within package transactions;
“ relevant persons ” means market operators and investment firms operating a
trading venue.

########## Article 10: deferrals and suspensions for fixed income instruments and derivatives etc

7.1

Rules under Article 10 may include provision authorising relevant persons to
defer complying with requirements imposed by the rules in such cases and to
such extent as the rules may specify.

7.2

Rules made by virtue of paragraph 1 may impose whatever conditions on the
application of a deferral the FCA considers appropriate.

7.3

The FCA may by notice suspend any requirements imposed by rules under Article
10 in the case of such relevant instruments, or class of relevant instruments,
as may be specified in the notice.

7.4

A notice under paragraph 3 suspending requirements—

7.4.a

may be given subject to conditions;

7.4.b

must specify the period for which the suspension has effect;

7.4.c

must be published in the manner appearing to the FCA to be best calculated to
bring it to the attention of persons likely to be affected by it;

7.4.d

may be varied or withdrawn by the giving of a further notice (and sub-
paragraph (c) applies to any such notice).

7.5

The power under paragraph 3 to suspend requirements is exercisable only if the
FCA considers that it is necessary to do so to advance the FCA’s integrity
objective under section 1D of FSMA.

7.6

In deciding whether to exercise the power under paragraph 3 to suspend
requirements the FCA must also have regard to—

7.6.a

its consumer protection objective under section 1C of FSMA, and

7.6.b

its competition objective under section 1E of FSMA.

###### Systematic internalisers and other investment firms

8

In Article 2(1) (definitions), for points (12) and (12A) substitute—

8.12

“ systematic internaliser ” means an investment firm which deals on own
account when executing client orders outside a UK regulated market, UK MTF or
UK OTF without operating a multilateral system and which—

8.12.a

does so on an organised, frequent, systematic and substantial basis, or

8.12.b

has chosen to opt in to the systematic internaliser regime;

8.12A

for the purposes of point (12), whether dealing is taking place on a basis
that is organised, frequent, systematic and substantial is to be determined in
accordance with rules made by the FCA (but the power to make such rules is
subject to any provision contained in regulations in respect of point (12)
under paragraph 2 of this Article);

.

9

In Article 17a (tick sizes), in the second paragraph, omit “large in scale”.

10

For Article 18 substitute—

######### Systematic internalisers: pre-trade transparency requirements for fixed income instruments and derivatives etc

10.1

The FCA may by rules impose pre-trade transparency requirements on systematic
internalisers in respect of the trading of such relevant instruments as the
FCA determines should be subject to the requirements for the purposes of
furthering—

10.1.a

efficient price formation, and

10.1.b

the fair evaluation of financial assets.

10.2

The power to make rules under paragraph 1 is exercisable only if the FCA
considers that the rules are necessary or expedient for the purposes of
advancing one or more of its operational objectives referred to in section
1B(3) of FSMA.

10.3

In making rules under paragraph 1 the FCA must (in particular) have regard to
the impact that requirements imposed by the rules will have on market
liquidity.

10.4

The reference in paragraph 1 to “ pre-trade transparency requirements ” is a
reference to whatever kinds of requirements relating to transparency before
trading that the rules may specify, for example—

10.4.a

requirements to make public matters specified in the rules in respect of the
trading of relevant instruments (for example, quotes);

10.4.b

requirements about the means by which, and the times at which, such matters
are to be made public or otherwise disclosed;

10.4.c

requirements relating to the determination of quotes in relation to relevant
instruments;

10.4.d

requirements in relation to the entering of transactions on the basis of such
quotes.

10.5

Rules under paragraph 1 may include provision for quotes issued by systematic
internalisers to be updated or withdrawn in such cases as the rules may
determine.

10.6

In this Article and in Article 18a “ relevant instruments ” means bonds,
structured finance products, emission allowances, derivatives and instruments
included within package orders.

######### Article 18: waivers and suspensions for fixed income instruments and derivatives etc

10.1

Rules under Article 18 may include provision for any requirements imposed by
those rules to be waived in such cases, and to such extent, as may be
determined by or under the rules.

10.2

Rules that include provision under paragraph 1 may impose whatever conditions
on the application of a waiver as the FCA considers appropriate.

10.3

The FCA may by notice given to a systematic internaliser withdraw a waiver
granted by virtue of paragraph 1 if the FCA considers that the waiver is being
used—

10.3.a

in a way that deviates from its original purpose, or

10.3.b

to avoid requirements imposed by the rules.

10.4

The FCA may by notice suspend requirements imposed by rules under Article 18
in the case of such relevant instruments, or class of relevant instruments, as
may be specified in the notice.

10.5

A notice under paragraph 4 suspending requirements—

10.5.a

may be given subject to conditions;

10.5.b

must specify the period for which the suspension has effect;

10.5.c

must be published in the manner appearing to the FCA to be best calculated to
bring it to the attention of persons likely to be affected by it;

10.5.d

may be varied or withdrawn by the giving of a further notice (and sub-
paragraph (c) applies to any such notice).

10.6

The power under paragraph 4 to suspend requirements is exercisable only if the
FCA considers that it is necessary to do so to advance the FCA’s integrity
objective under section 1D of FSMA.

10.7

In deciding whether to exercise the power under paragraph 4 to suspend
requirements the FCA must also have regard to—

10.7.a

its consumer protection objective under section 1C of FSMA, and

10.7.b

its competition objective under section 1E of FSMA.

######### Notification and publication requirements

10.1

Firms meeting the definition of systematic internaliser must notify the FCA of
that fact in accordance with rules made by the FCA.

10.2

The FCA must publish, and keep up to date, a list of the systematic
internalisers for which it has received notification under paragraph 1.

11

For Article 21 substitute—

######### Investment firms (including systematic internalisers): post-trade transparency requirements for fixed income instruments and derivatives etc

11.1

The FCA must by rules impose post-trade transparency requirements on relevant
persons in respect of the trading of such relevant instruments as the FCA
determines should be subject to the requirements for the purposes of
furthering—

11.1.a

efficient price formation, and

11.1.b

the fair evaluation of financial assets.

11.2

The power to make rules under paragraph 1 is exercisable only if the FCA
considers that the rules are necessary or expedient for the purpose of
advancing one or more of its operational objectives referred to in section
1B(3) of FSMA.

11.3

In making rules under paragraph 1 the FCA must (in particular) have regard to
the impact that requirements imposed by the rules will have on market
liquidity.

11.4

The reference in paragraph 1 to “ post-trade transparency requirements ” is a
reference to whatever kinds of requirements relating to transparency after the
conclusion of trades that the rules may specify, for example—

11.4.a

requirements to make public matters specified in the rules in respect of the
trading of relevant instruments (including the price, volume and time of
transactions);

11.4.b

requirements about the means by which, and the times at which, such matters
are to be made public.

11.5

Rules under paragraph 1 may—

11.5.a

provide for the criteria by which the determination referred to in that
paragraph is to be made;

11.5.b

in cases where both parties to a transaction are relevant persons, provide for
which of those parties is to comply with the requirements imposed by the
rules.

11.6

Rules under paragraph 1 may include provision authorising relevant persons to
defer complying with requirements imposed by the rules in such cases and to
such extent as the rules may specify.

11.7

Rules made by virtue of paragraph 6 may impose whatever conditions on the
application of a deferral as the FCA considers appropriate.

11.8

The FCA may by notice suspend requirements imposed by rules under paragraph 1
in the case of such relevant instruments, or class of relevant instruments, as
may be specified in the notice.

11.9

A notice under paragraph 8 suspending requirements—

11.9.a

may be given subject to conditions;

11.9.b

must specify the period for which the suspension has effect;

11.9.c

must be published in the manner appearing to the FCA to be best calculated to
bring it to the attention of persons likely to be affected by it;

11.9.d

may be varied or withdrawn by the giving of a further notice (and sub-
paragraph (c) applies to any such notice).

11.10

The power under paragraph 8 to suspend requirements is exercisable only if the
FCA considers that it is necessary to do so to advance the FCA’s integrity
objective under section 1D of FSMA.

11.11

In deciding whether to exercise the power under paragraph 8 to suspend
requirements the FCA must also have regard to—

11.11.a

its consumer protection objective under section 1C of FSMA, and

11.11.b

its competition objective under section 1E of FSMA.

11.12

In this Article—

“ relevant instruments ” means bonds, structured finance products, emission
allowances, derivatives and instruments included within package transactions;
“ relevant persons ” means investment firms which, either on own account or on
behalf of clients, conclude transactions in relevant instruments.

###### Systematic internalisers and other investment firms

12

In Article 22 (providing information for the purposes of transparency and
other calculations), in paragraph 1 omit “and for determining whether an
investment firm is a systematic internaliser”.

###### Share trading obligation

13

13.1

Article 23 (trading obligation for investment firms) is amended as follows.

13.2

Omit paragraphs 1, 1A, 3, 4, 5 and 6.

13.3

In the title, for “Trading obligation for investment firms” substitute
“Investment firms operating internal matching systems” .

14

In Article 1(2E), omit “Article 23,”.

###### Derivatives trading obligation

15

In Article 1(3) (subject matter and scope), for “financial counterparties” to
the end substitute  “counterparties that are relevant financial
counterparties, or relevant non-financial counterparties, for the purposes of
Article 28 (see paragraph 1A of that Article)” .

16

16.1

Article 28 (obligation to trade on regulated markets, MTFs or OTFs) is amended
as follows.

16.2

In paragraph 1, for the words from the beginning to “Article 10(1)(b) of
Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 ” substitute  “Relevant financial counterparties
and relevant non-financial counterparties shall conclude transactions which
are neither intragroup transactions as defined in Article 3 of  Regulation
(EU) No 648/2012  nor transactions covered by the transitional provisions in
Article 89 of that Regulation with other relevant financial counterparties or
other relevant non-financial counterparties” .

16.3

After paragraph 1 insert—

16.3.1A

For the purposes of this Article—

16.3.1A.a

“ financial counterparty ” and “ non-financial counterparty ” have the same
meanings as in  Regulation (EU) No 648/2012  (see Article 2(8) and (9) of that
Regulation);

16.3.1A.b

a financial counterparty is a “relevant” financial counterparty if it is
subject to the clearing obligation referred to in Article 4 of  Regulation
(EU) No 648/2012 ;

16.3.1A.c

a non-financial counterparty is a “relevant” non-financial counterparty in
respect of derivative contracts pertaining to any asset classes if it is
subject to that clearing obligation in respect of derivative contracts
pertaining to those asset classes.

17

After Article 28 insert—

########## Suspension or modification of Article 28

17.1

The FCA may direct that the trading obligation imposed by Article 28(1) and
(2) (the “DTO”) is suspended or modified in accordance with the direction if
it considers that the suspension or modification—

17.1.a

is necessary for the purpose of preventing or mitigating disruption to
financial markets, and

17.1.b

advances one or more of the FCA’s operational objectives referred to in
section 1B(3) of FSMA.

17.2

A direction under this Article may provide for the DTO to be suspended or
modified—

17.2.a

in the case of all persons to whom the DTO applies or only to such persons or
descriptions of persons as are specified in the direction;

17.2.b

in the case of all derivatives to which the DTO applies or only to such
derivatives, or classes of derivatives, as are specified in the direction;

17.2.c

by reference to the venues on which derivative transactions are concluded
under the DTO;

17.2.d

subject to conditions.

17.3

In giving a direction under this Article the FCA must have regard to its
competitiveness and growth objective in section 1EB of FSMA.

17.4

Before giving a direction under this Article the FCA must consult—

17.4.a

the Bank of England, and

17.4.b

the PRA, if the PRA has an interest in the proposed direction.

The PRA has an interest in a proposed direction if the direction—

17.4.a

might affect the PRA’s discharge of its functions conferred by or under FSMA
or any other enactment, or

17.4.b

would apply to a PRA-authorised person or to a person connected with a PRA-
authorised person (and for this purpose “ PRA authorised person ” has the same
meaning as in FSMA and “ connected ” is to be read in accordance with section
165(11) of FSMA).

17.5

A direction under this Article may be given only with the consent of the
Treasury.

The Treasury must notify the FCA in writing whether or not consent is given
before the end of four weeks beginning with the day on which the proposed
direction is submitted to the Treasury for consent (and if the notice is not
given before the end of that period the Treasury are deemed to have
consented).

17.6

Where the FCA gives a direction under this Article it must also prepare a
statement setting out—

17.6.a

an explanation of the purpose of the direction, including (where relevant) the
ways in which the direction will further the purpose mentioned in paragraph
1(a) and advance one or more of the objectives mentioned in paragraph 1(b),
and

17.6.b

such guidance in connection with the direction that the FCA considers
appropriate.

17.7

The FCA must publish a direction given under this Article together with the
statement mentioned in paragraph 6.

17.8

The Treasury must lay before Parliament a copy of a direction given under this
Article and the statement mentioned in paragraph 6.

17.9

If a direction under this Article has effect for a period lasting longer than
6 months, the FCA must publish, as soon as reasonably practicable after the
end of each applicable 6 month period, a statement with an explanation as to
why the conditions in paragraph 1(a) and (b) continue to be met.

The reference to each “applicable 6 month period” is to—

17.9.a

the period of 6 months beginning with the day on which the direction is given,
and

17.9.b

each subsequent 6 month period during which the direction continues in effect.

17.10

Publication under paragraph 7 or 9 is to be in whatever way appears to the FCA
to be best calculated to bring the publication to the attention of the public.

17.11

A direction under this Article may be varied or revoked by the giving of a
further direction under this Article.

17.12

For the purposes of this Article—

17.12.a

the variation of a direction by virtue of paragraph 11 is not to be treated as
the giving of a new direction for the purposes of paragraph 9;

17.12.b

paragraphs 6(b) and 9 do not apply to the revocation of a direction by virtue
of paragraph 11.

17.13

The functions of the FCA under this Article are not “ relevant functions ” for
the purposes of section 84 of the Financial Services Act 2012 (arrangements
for the investigation of complaints relating to exercise of relevant functions
of regulators).

18

For Article 31 substitute—

########## Risk reduction services

18.1

The FCA may by rules provide for one or more relevant obligations not to
apply—

18.1.a

in relation to activities or transactions of a specified description carried
out as part of a risk reduction service, or

18.1.b

to persons of a specified description in the provision of such services.

18.2

The power to make rules under paragraph 1 is exercisable only if the FCA
considers that the rules are necessary or expedient for the purpose of
advancing one or more of its operational objectives referred to in section
1B(3) of FSMA.

18.3

The risk reduction services to which the rules relate may only be post-trade
services that do not give rise to any transactions that contribute to the
price discovery process.

18.4

The rules—

18.4.a

may describe the risk reduction services to which they relate in whatever way
the FCA considers appropriate (subject to paragraph 3);

18.4.b

may provide for whatever conditions or exceptions the FCA considers
appropriate.

18.5

Before making rules under paragraph 1 the FCA must consult the Bank of
England.

18.6

In this Article—

“ relevant obligation ” means— the best execution obligation in section 11.2A
of the Conduct of Business sourcebook; the obligation in rule 5AA.1.1 in the
Market Conduct sourcebook; the trading obligation imposed by Article 28 of
this Regulation; “ risk reduction service ” means a service provided to two or
more counterparties to derivatives transactions for the purpose of reducing
non-market risks in derivatives portfolios (including, for example, portfolio
compression); “ specified ” means specified in the rules.

###### Consequential amendments relating to this Part

19

In Article 2(1) (definitions), in point (17) (“liquid market”)—

19.a

omit paragraph (a);

19.b

in paragraph (b), for “Articles 4, 5 and 14” substitute  “Article 14” .

20

In Article 12(1) after “accordance with” insert  “, or with rules made under,”
.

21

In Article 13(1) after “accordance with” insert  “, or with rules made under,”
.

22

Omit Article 19.

23

In Article 26(3), omit “and Article 21(5)(a)”.

24

In Article 47(1A)(a), after “Regulation” insert  “or in rules made by the FCA
under this Regulation” .

25

In Article 50B (FCA directions), omit “Article 5, Article 9 or”.

26

26.1

Article 50C (other FCA directions) is amended as follows.

26.2

In paragraph 2 after “Article” insert  “4a or” .

26.3

In paragraph 3 after “Article” insert  “4a or” .

26.4

In paragraph 4 after “Article” insert  “4a or” .

27

27.1

Article 50D (FCA rules) is amended as follows.

27.2

In paragraph 1—

27.2.a

for “Article 46(6B) or 48A” substitute  “this Regulation” ;

27.2.b

for “modification in paragraph 3” substitute  “modifications in paragraphs 2A
and 3” .

27.3

In paragraph 2(b) after “damages)” insert  “and section 138EA (matters to
consider when making rules)” .

27.4

After paragraph 2 insert—

27.4.2A

In its application to rules made under Article 31, section 138I has effect as
if the reference to the PRA in subsection (1)(a) were a reference to the Bank
of England.

27.5

In paragraph 3, for the words after “authorised persons” substitute  “included
a reference to persons who are not authorised persons but to whom any of the
rules made by the FCA under this Regulation apply” .

##### Amendments to the European Market Infrastructure Regulation

28

Regulation (EU) No 648/2012  on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and
trade repositories is amended in accordance with this Part of this Schedule.

29

After Article 6a insert—

######### Risk reduction services

29.1

The Bank of England may by rules provide for the clearing obligation referred
to in Article 4(1) in respect of a class or classes of OTC derivatives not to
apply—

29.1.a

in relation to activities or transactions of a specified description carried
out as part of a risk reduction service, or

29.1.b

to persons of a specified description in the provision of such services.

29.2

The power to make rules under paragraph 1 is exercisable only if the Bank of
England considers that the rules are necessary or expedient for the purpose of
advancing the financial stability objective under section 2A of the Bank of
England Act 1998.

29.3

The risk reduction services to which the rules relate may only be post-trade
services that do not give rise to any transactions that contribute to the
price discovery process.

29.4

The rules—

29.4.a

may describe the risk reduction services to which they relate in whatever way
the Bank of England considers appropriate (subject to paragraph 3);

29.4.b

may provide for whatever conditions or exceptions the Bank of England
considers appropriate.

29.5

In this Article—

“ risk reduction service ” means a service provided to two or more
counterparties to derivatives transactions for the purpose of reducing non-
market risks in derivatives portfolios (including, for example, portfolio
compression); “ specified ” means specified in the rules.

30

After Article 84b insert—

######### Bank of England rules

30.1

The provisions of Part 9A of FSMA (rules and guidance) listed in paragraph 2
apply in relation to rules made by the Bank of England under Article 6b,
subject to the modifications in paragraphs 3 to 5.

30.2

The provisions are—

30.2.a

section 137T (general supplementary powers);

30.2.b

sections 138A and 138B (modification or waiver of rules), but with the
omission of subsection (4)(b) of section 138A and subsection (4) of section
138B;

30.2.c

section 138C (evidential provisions);

30.2.d

section 138E (limits on effect of contravening rules);

30.2.e

section 138F (notification of rules);

30.2.f

section 138G (rule-making instruments);

30.2.g

section 138H (verification of rules);

30.2.h

section 138J (consultation by the PRA), but with the omission of subsections
(2)(c) and (5)(b);

30.2.i

section 138L (consultation: general exceptions), but with the omission of
subsection (1).

30.3

Any reference in any of those provisions to an authorised person is to be read
as a reference to a person to whom the clearing obligation referred to in
Article 4(1) applies.

30.4

Section 138J(2)(d) has effect in relation to rules proposed to be made by the
Bank of England as if the reference to the compatibility of the proposed rules
with the provisions mentioned in section 138J(2)(d) were a reference to their
compatibility with the Bank of England’s financial stability objective under
section 2A of the Bank of England Act 1998.

30.5

Section 138L(2) has effect as if for paragraphs (a) and (b) there were
substituted  “be prejudicial to financial stability” .

##### Amendments to the EU Securitisation Regulation

###### Introductory

31

Regulation (EU) 2017/2402  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12
December 2017 laying down a general framework for securitisation and creating
a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation,
and amending  Directives 2009/65/EC ,  2009/138/EC  and  2011/61/EU  and
Regulations  (EC) No 1060/2009  and  (EU) No 648/2012  (“the EU Securitisation
Regulation 2017”) is amended in accordance with this Part of this Schedule.

###### STS equivalent non-UK securitisations

32

32.1

Article 2 (definitions) is amended as follows.

32.2

Omit point (A8) (definition of “third country”).

32.3

Before point (1) insert—

32.3.A9

‘STS equivalent non-UK securitisation’ means a securitisation of a description
in relation to which a country or territory outside the United Kingdom is
designated by regulations under Article 28A;

32.3.A10

‘territory’ includes the European Union and any other international
organisation or authority comprising countries or territories;

.

32.4

In point (5) (definition of “sponsor”), for “third country” substitute
“country or territory outside the United Kingdom” .

33

After Article 28 (third party verifying STS compliance) insert—

########## STS equivalent non-UK securitisations

########### Designation of country or territory in relation to securitisations

33.1

The Treasury may by regulations designate a country or territory in relation
to securitisations of descriptions specified in the regulations.

33.2

The power in paragraph 1 is exercisable only if the Treasury are satisfied
that the law and practice which applies in the country or territory, in
relation to securitisations of the descriptions specified, has equivalent
effect (taken as a whole) to applicable UK law.

33.3

“ Applicable UK law ” means:

33.3.a

this Regulation, as it applies to STS securitisations, and

33.3.b

the Securitisation Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/2188 ), as those regulations
apply to STS securitisations.

33.4

In making regulations under paragraph 1, the Treasury must have regard, in
addition to any other matters they consider relevant, to whether the FCA (and,
where relevant, the PRA) have established effective cooperation arrangements
with the competent authorities of the country or territory.

33.5

When considering whether to make, vary or revoke regulations under paragraph
1, the Treasury may, by making a request in writing to the FCA, require the
FCA to prepare a report on the law and practice of a country or territory
outside the United Kingdom, or particular aspects of such law and practice, in
relation to securitisations of descriptions specified in the request.

33.6

If the Treasury request a report under paragraph 5, the FCA must:

33.6.a

consult the PRA when preparing the report, and

33.6.b

provide the Treasury with the report within such reasonable period as may be
specified in the request (or such other period as may be agreed with the
Treasury).

33.7

Regulations under paragraph 1 may—

33.7.a

specify matters that a person carrying out a due-diligence assessment required
by Article 5(3) must consider with regard to an STS equivalent non-UK
securitisation;

33.7.b

in relation to a matter specified, specify the extent to which the person may
rely on the matter.

33.8

Regulations under this Article are to be made by statutory instrument.

33.9

Such regulations may—

33.9.a

contain incidental, supplemental, consequential and transitional provision;
and

33.9.b

make different provision for different purposes.

33.>10.

Regulations under this Article are subject to annulment in pursuance of a
resolution of either House of Parliament.

###### Minor and consequential amendments

34

The EU Securitisation Regulation 2017 is amended in accordance with paragraphs
35  to  37 .

35

In Article 4 (requirements for securitisation special purpose entities)—

35.a

in the words before point (a), for “third country” substitute  “country or
territory outside the United Kingdom” ;

35.b

in point (a), for “third country” substitute  “country or territory” ;

35.c

in point (b), for “third country”, in both places, substitute  “country or
territory” .

36

36.1

Article 5 (due-diligence requirements for institutional investors) is amended
as follows.

36.2

In paragraph 1, for “third country”, in each place, substitute  “country or
territory outside the United Kingdom” .

36.3

In paragraph 3, after point (d) insert—

36.3.da

with regard to an STS equivalent non-UK securitisation, such matters as may be
specified in regulations under Article 28A (and may rely on such matters to
such extent as may be specified).

37

37.1

Article 46 (Treasury review) is amended as follows.

37.2

In paragraph 1, omit the second subparagraph.

37.3

In paragraph 2—

37.3.a

in point (a), omit “in the Union”;

37.3.b

omit point (e).

38

In  Regulation (EU) No 575/2013  of the European Parliament and of the Council
of 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and
investment firms and amending  Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 , in Article 242
(definitions), in point (10) (meaning of “simple, transparent and standardised
securitisation” or “STS securitisation”)—

38.a

the words from “a securitisation” to the end become paragraph (a);

38.b

at the end of that paragraph, insert

; or

38.b.b

an STS equivalent non-UK securitisation as defined in point (A9) of Article 2
of  Regulation (EU) 2017/2402 ;

.

39

In  Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/35  of 10 October 2014
supplementing  Directive 2009/138/EC  of the European Parliament and of the
Council on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of Insurance and
Reinsurance (Solvency II), in Article 1 (definitions), in point 18b (meaning
of “ STS securitisation ”)—

39.a

the words from “a securitisation” to the end become paragraph (a);

39.b

at the end of that paragraph, insert

; or

39.b.b

an STS equivalent non-UK securitisation within the meaning of Article 2(A9) of
Regulation (EU) 2017/2402 ;

.

40

In Article 11(1) of  Regulation (EU) 2017/1131  of the European Parliament and
of the Council of 14 June 2017 on money market funds (eligible securitisations
and ABCPs), after paragraph (c) insert—

40.d

an STS equivalent non-UK securitisation as defined in point (A9) of Article 2
of  Regulation (EU) 2017/2402 .

41

The Securitisation Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/1288 ) are amended in
accordance with paragraphs  42  and  43 .

42

In regulation 2 (interpretation), in the definition of “SRUP”, in paragraph
(c), for “third country” substitute  “country or territory outside the United
Kingdom” .

43

In regulation 4 (designation of competent authorities), in paragraph (1)(b),
for “third country” substitute  “country or territory outside the United
Kingdom” .

##### Amendments to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Markets in Financial Instruments) Regulations 2017

###### Introductory

44

The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Markets in Financial Instruments)
Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/701 ) is amended in accordance with this Part of
this Schedule.

###### Position limits for commodity derivatives

45

In Part 3 (position limits and position management controls in commodity
derivatives), before regulation 16 insert—

########## FCA rules relating to position limits

45.15A

45.15A.1

The FCA may by rules require relevant persons to establish and apply—

45.15A.1.a

position limits in respect of specified commodity derivatives, or commodity
derivatives of a specified class, that are traded on a trading venue, and

45.15A.1.b

position management controls in relation to the trading of commodity
derivatives.

45.15A.2

The power to make rules under paragraph (1) is exercisable only if the FCA
considers that the rules are necessary or expedient for the purpose of
advancing one or more of its operational objectives referred to in section
1B(3) of the Act.

45.15A.3

In making rules under paragraph (1) the FCA must have regard to its
competitiveness and growth objective in section 1EB of the Act.

45.15A.4

Rules under paragraph (1) may provide for matters that relevant persons must
have regard to when establishing position limits, or position management
controls, under requirements imposed by the rules.

45.15A.5

Rules under paragraph (1) may provide for exemptions from the requirements
imposed by the rules to such extent, and in such cases, as the rules may
specify.

45.15A.6

The reference in paragraph (1)(b) to position management controls includes
(for example) arrangements under which—

45.15A.6.a

the open interest positions of persons can be monitored;

45.15A.6.b

information and documentation can be obtained from persons about the size of
positions entered into;

45.15A.6.c

requirements can be imposed on persons to terminate or reduce positions or to
provide liquidity.

45.15A.7

The following provisions of Part 9A of the Act (rules and guidance) apply in
relation to rules made by the FCA under this regulation as they apply in
relation to rules made by the FCA under that Part of the Act, subject to the
modification in paragraph (8)—

45.15A.7.a

section 137T (general supplementary powers);

45.15A.7.b

Chapter 2 (modification, waiver, contravention and procedural provisions),
with the exception of sections 138D (actions for damages) and 138EA (matters
to consider when making rules);

45.15A.7.c

section 141A (power to make consequential amendments of references to rules
etc).

45.15A.8

Section 137T applies as if the reference to authorised persons were a
reference to relevant persons to whom rules under this regulation apply.

45.15A.9

A requirement imposed by rules under this regulation is, for the purposes of
section 296 of the Act (regulator’s power to give directions), to be treated
as an obligation imposed under the Act.

45.15A.10

In this Part “ relevant persons ” means market operators and investment firms
operating a trading venue.

46

46.1

Regulation 16 (FCA duty to establish position limits) is amended as follows.

46.2

In the title, for “duty” substitute  “power” .

46.3

In paragraph (1)—

46.3.a

for “must” substitute  “may” ;

46.3.b

for the words from “traded” to the end substitute  “to which requirements
imposed by rules under regulation 15A apply” .

46.4

After that paragraph insert—

46.4.1A

The power to give a direction under paragraph (1) is exercisable only if the
FCA considers that it is necessary to give the direction for the purpose of
advancing one or more of its operational objectives referred to in section
1B(3) of the Act.

46.4.1B

Position limits established by virtue of regulation 15A do not apply to the
extent that position limits established by virtue of this regulation apply
instead.

46.5

Omit paragraphs (2), (3) and (5).

47

47.1

Regulation 27 (FCA power to require information) is amended as follows.

47.2

In paragraph (1), in both of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) omit “or over the
counter contract”.

47.3

In paragraph (2) omit “or over the counter contract”.

47.4

47.4.3

For the purposes of this regulation a commodity derivative is a “relevant”
commodity derivative if—

47.4.3.a

requirements imposed by rules under regulation 15A apply to the commodity
derivative (or to commodity derivatives of that class), or

47.4.3.b

it is a commodity derivative (or falls within a class of commodity
derivatives) to which the FCA is considering making such requirements apply.

48

48.1

Regulation 28 (FCA power to intervene) is amended as follows.

48.2

In paragraph (1), in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for the words from
“the exercise” to “regulation” substitute  “advancing one or more of its
operational objectives referred to in section 1B(3) of the Act” .

48.3

In paragraph (2) after “established” insert  “in accordance with rules made
under regulation 15A or” .

48.4

In paragraph (3) omit “or an economically equivalent over the counter
contract”.

49

In regulation 29 (interpretation of Part 3), in paragraph (2)—

49.a

before the definition of “position” insert—

“ market operator ” has the same meaning as in the markets in financial
instruments regulation;

;

49.b

after the definition of “position limit” insert—

“ relevant person ” has the meaning given by regulation 15A(10)

.

###### Consequential revocations relating to this Part

50

The following provisions are revoked—

50.a

paragraph 7BA of the Schedule to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
(Recognition Requirements for Investment Exchanges, Clearing Houses and
Central Securities Depositories) Regulations 2001 ( S.I. 2001/995 );

50.b

in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Markets in Financial
Instruments) Regulations 2017—

50.b.i

regulation 17;

50.b.ii

regulation 18;

50.b.iii

regulation 19;

50.b.iv

regulation 25;

50.b.v

regulation 29(1);

50.c

in  Regulation (EU) No 600/2014  of the European Parliament and of the Council
of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments—

50.c.i

in Article 26(3), the last sentence;

50.c.ii

in Schedule 3, paragraphs 31 and 32;

50.d

Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/591  of 1 December 2016
supplementing  Directive 2014/65/EU  of the European Parliament and of the
Council with regard to regulatory technical standards for the application of
position limits to commodity derivatives.

##### Amendments to the Central Counterparties (Amendment, etc., and Transitional Provision) (EU Exit) Regulations 2018

51

51.1

Regulation 19B of the Central Counterparties (Amendment, etc., and
Transitional Provision) (EU Exit) Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/1184 ) is
amended as follows.

51.2

In paragraph (2) for “one year” substitute  “3 years and 6 months” .

51.3

After paragraph (3) insert—

51.3.4

The period determined by the Bank of England in a particular case under
paragraph (2) (whenever determined) may be varied by the making of a
subsequent determination.

51.3.5

Paragraph (6) applies where—

51.3.5.a

a central counterparty (A) was taken to be recognised pursuant to Article 25
of the EMIR regulation in accordance with regulation 19A(3), and

51.3.5.b

A ceased to be taken to be so recognised by virtue of the relevant period in
the case of A having expired before the commencement day.

51.3.6

The Bank of England—

51.3.6.a

may determine that the relevant period in the case of A is (in spite of its
expiry) to be treated, as from the making of the determination, as not having
expired, and

51.3.6.b

may accordingly exercise its power under this regulation to vary the relevant
period on or after the commencement day.

51.3.7

In paragraphs (5) and (6) “ the commencement day ” means the day on which Part
5 of Schedule 2 to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 comes into
force.

51.3.8

Paragraphs (5) to (7) expire at the end of 31 December 2025 (but without
affecting any variation of a relevant period made under this regulation by
virtue of paragraph (6)(b) before that time).

##### Amendments relating to critical third parties

52

The Electronic Money Regulations 2011 ( S.I. 2011/99 ) are amended in
accordance with paragraphs  53  to  62 .

53

In regulation 48 (monitoring and enforcement), after paragraph (1)(a) insert—

53.aa

electronic money institutions on whom requirements are imposed by or under
section 312R of the 2000 Act are complying with them;

.

54

In regulation 49 (reporting requirements), after paragraph (1) insert—

54.1A

An electronic money institution must give the Authority such information in
respect of its compliance with requirements imposed by or under section 312R
of the 2000 Act as the Authority may direct.

55

In regulation 50 (public censure), after “Regulations” insert  “or, in the
case of an electronic money institution, section 312R of the 2000 Act” .

56

In regulation 51 (financial penalties)—

56.a

omit “or” at the end of paragraph (1)(a), and

56.b

after that paragraph insert—

56.b.aa

an electronic money institution who has contravened a requirement imposed on
it by or under section 312R of the 2000 Act; or

.

57

In regulation 52 (suspending authorisation etc), in paragraph (1) after
“Regulations” insert  “or by or under section 312R of the 2000 Act” .

58

In regulation 54 (injunctions)—

58.a

omit “or” at the end of paragraph (1)(a);

58.b

after paragraph (1)(b) insert—

58.b.c

that there is a reasonable likelihood that an electronic money institution
will contravene a requirement imposed on it by or under section 312R of the
2000 Act; or

58.b.d

that an electronic money institution has contravened such a requirement and
that there is a reasonable likelihood that the contravention will continue or
be repeated,

;

58.c

in paragraph (2)(a) after “Regulations” insert  “or an electronic money
institution has contravened a requirement imposed on it by or under section
312R of the 2000 Act” ;

58.d

in the words after paragraph (2)(b), after “that person” insert  “or
institution” ;

58.e

omit “or” at the end of paragraph (3)(a);

58.f

after that paragraph insert—

58.f.aa

in the case of an electronic money institution, contravened a requirement
imposed on it by or under section 312R of the 2000 Act; or

;

58.g

in paragraph (3)(b) for “such a requirement” substitute  “a requirement
described in sub-paragraph (a) or (aa)” .

59

In regulation 55 (power to require restitution), in paragraph (1) after
“requirement,” insert  “or, where the electronic money issuer is an electronic
money institution, has contravened a requirement imposed on it by or under
section 312R of the 2000 Act, or been knowingly concerned in the contravention
of such a requirement,” .

60

In regulation 57 (restitution orders), in paragraph (1) after “requirement,”
insert  “or, where the electronic money issuer is an electronic money
institution, has contravened a requirement imposed on it by or under section
312R of the 2000 Act, or been knowingly concerned in the contravention of such
a requirement,” .

61

In regulation 58 (complaints), in paragraph (1)—

61.a

the words from “a requirement” to the end become sub-paragraph (a), and

61.b

after that sub-paragraph insert

, or

61.b.b

a requirement imposed by or under section 312R of the 2000 Act has been
breached by an electronic money institution.

62

In Schedule 3 (application and modification of legislation)—

62.a

in paragraph 1(b), in the inserted text substituting section 66A of the 2000
Act—

62.a.i

in subsection (1), the words from “a contravention” to the end become sub-
paragraph (a),

62.a.ii

after that paragraph insert

, or

62.a.ii.b

a contravention of a requirement imposed by or under section 312R of the 2000
Act by an electronic money institution.

, and

62.a.iii

for subsection (2) substitute—

62.a.iii.2

“ Relevant person ” means—

62.a.iii.2.a

in relation to subsection (1)(a), any person responsible for the management of
the electronic money issuer or, where relevant, any person responsible for the
management of electronic money issuance by the electronic money issuer, or

62.a.iii.2.b

in relation to subsection (1)(b), any person responsible for the management of
the electronic money institution or, where relevant, any person responsible
for the management of electronic money issuance by the electronic money
institution.

;

62.b

in paragraph 3(d)(i), in the inserted subsection (1)(ab), after “2011” insert
“or section 312R” .

63

The Payment Services Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/752 ) are amended in
accordance with paragraphs  64  to  72 .

64

In regulation 108 (monitoring and enforcement), after paragraph (1)(a) insert—

64.aa

authorised payment institutions, small payment institutions or registered
account information services providers on whom requirements are imposed by or
under section 312R of the 2000 Act are complying with them;

.

65

In regulation 109 (reporting requirements), after paragraph (1) insert—

65.1A

An authorised payment institution, small payment institution, or registered
account information services provider must give the FCA such information as
the FCA may direct in respect of its compliance with requirements imposed by
or under section 312R of the 2000 Act.

66

In regulation 110 (public censure), after “Regulations” insert  “or, in the
case of an authorised payment institution, small payment institution, or
registered account information services provider, section 312R of the 2000
Act” .

67

In regulation 111 (financial penalties)—

67.a

omit “or” at the end of paragraph (1)(a), and

67.b

after that paragraph insert—

67.b.aa

an authorised payment institution, small payment institution, or registered
account information services provider who has contravened a requirement
imposed on it by or under section 312R of the 2000 Act; or

.

68

In regulation 113 (injunctions)—

68.a

omit “or” at the end of paragraph (1)(a);

68.b

after paragraph (1)(b) insert—

68.b.c

that there is a reasonable likelihood that an authorised payment institution,
small payment institution, or registered account information services provider
will contravene a requirement imposed on it by or under section 312R of the
2000 Act; or

68.b.d

that an authorised payment institution, small payment institution, or
registered account information services provider has contravened such a
requirement and that there is a reasonable likelihood that the contravention
will continue or be repeated,

;

68.c

in paragraph (2)(a) after “Regulations” insert  “or an authorised payment
institution, small payment institution, or registered account information
services provider has contravened a requirement imposed on it by or under
section 312R of the 2000 Act” ;

68.d

in the words after paragraph (2)(b), after “that person” insert  “or
institution or provider” ;

68.e

omit “or” at the end of paragraph (3)(a);

68.f

after that paragraph insert—

68.f.aa

in the case of an authorised payment institution, small payment institution,
or registered account information services provider contravened a requirement
imposed on it by or under section 312R of the 2000 Act; or

;

68.g

in paragraph (3)(b) for “such a requirement” substitute  “a requirement
described in sub-paragraph (a) or (aa)” .

69

In regulation 114 (power to require restitution), in paragraph (1) after
“requirement,” insert  “or, where the payment service provider is an
authorised payment institution, small payment institution, or registered
account information services provider, has contravened a requirement imposed
on it by or under section 312R of the 2000 Act, or been knowingly concerned in
the contravention of such a requirement,” .

70

In regulation 116 (restitution orders), in paragraph (1) after “requirement,”
insert  “or, where the payment service provider is an authorised payment
institution, small payment institution, or registered account information
services provider, has contravened a requirement imposed on it by or under
section 312R of the 2000 Act, or been knowingly concerned in the contravention
of such a requirement,” .

71

In regulation 117 (complaints), in paragraph (1)—

71.a

the words from “a requirement” to the end become sub-paragraph (a), and

71.b

after that sub-paragraph insert

or

71.b.b

a requirement imposed by or under section 312R of the 2000 Act has been
breached by an authorised payment institution, small payment institution, or
registered account information services provider.

72

In Schedule 6 (application and modification of legislation)—

72.a

in paragraph 1, in the inserted text substituting section 66A of the 2000 Act—

72.a.i

in subsection (1), the words from “a contravention” to the end become sub-
paragraph (a), and

72.a.ii

after that paragraph insert

or

72.a.ii.b

a contravention of a requirement imposed by or under section 312R of the 2000
Act by an authorised payment institution, small payment institution, or
registered account information services provider.

;

72.a.iii

for subsection (2) substitute—

72.a.iii.2

“ Relevant person ” means—

72.a.iii.2.a

in relation to subsection (1)(a), any person responsible for the management of
the payment service provider or, where relevant, any person responsible for
the management of the payment service provider’s payment services activities,
or

72.a.iii.2.b

in relation to subsection (1)(b), any person responsible for the management of
the authorised payment institution, small payment institution, or registered
account information services provider or, where relevant, any person
responsible for the management of the authorised payment institution’s, small
payment institution’s, or registered account information services provider’s
payment services activities.

;

72.b

in paragraph 4(e), in the inserted subsection (1)(c), after “2017” insert  “or
section 312R” .

  New Schedule 6B to FSMA 2000

Section 8

    SCHEDULE 6B   Designated activities     Introductory   1     The matters
with respect to which provision may be made under section 71K in respect of
activities include (but are not limited to) those described in general terms
in this Schedule.       Derivatives   2     Activities related to entering
into derivative contracts (including those contracts not cleared by a central
counterparty).       3     Holding positions in commodity derivatives.
Short selling   4     Engaging in short selling in relation to specified
financial instruments (“shorted instruments”) including where—     a     a
person enters into a transaction which creates, or relates to, another
financial instrument, and         b     the effect (or one of the effects) of
the transaction is to confer a financial advantage on that person in the event
of a decrease in the price or value of the shorted instrument.
Securitisation   5     Acting as one of the following in a securitisation—
a     an originator,         b     a sponsor,         c     an original
lender, or         d     a securitisation special purpose entity.           6
Selling a securitisation position to a retail client located in the United
Kingdom.       Financial markets   7     Offering securities to the public.
8     Applying for, securing or maintaining the admission of securities to
trading on a securities market.       Using a benchmark   9     Issuing an
instrument which references a benchmark.       10     Determining the amount
payable under an instrument or financial contract by reference to a benchmark
or otherwise being a party to a financial contract which references a
benchmark.       11     Measuring the performance of an investment fund
through a benchmark.       Contributing to a benchmark   12     Acting as a
“benchmark contributor” including persons in the United Kingdom or a third
country.       13     Contributing data to a regulated benchmark administrator
for the purpose of the administrator determining a benchmark.

  FMI Sandboxes

Section 13

##### Participation

1

1.1

Eligibility for participation in the FMI sandbox arrangements for FMI entities
and persons other than FMI entities.

1.2

The requirements mentioned in sub-paragraph (1) may be framed by reference to—

1.2.a

the description of persons who carry on activities;

1.2.b

the description of activities carried on by persons;

1.2.c

the relationship of persons with FMI entities.

1.3

Application or other procedures for participating in the FMI sandbox
arrangements.

1.4

Information to be supplied by persons wishing to participate in the FMI
sandbox arrangements for the purposes of assessing eligibility.

1.5

Information to be supplied by persons participating in the FMI sandbox
arrangements for the purposes of notifying other persons of their
participation.

##### Technology

2

The particular kinds of technology that may be used under the FMI sandbox
arrangements for the purposes of assessing their efficiency or effectiveness.

##### Practices

3

3.1

The particular kinds of practices that may be adopted under the FMI sandbox
arrangements for the purposes of assessing their efficiency or effectiveness.

3.2

The practices referred to in sub-paragraph (1) include practices adopted in
the issuance, trading or settlement of financial instruments in a way not
otherwise possible or practicable as a result of requirements imposed by
relevant enactments.

##### Financial instruments

4

4.1

Descriptions of financial instrument (“the FMI sandbox instruments”) that may
be traded under the FMI sandbox arrangements.

4.2

The forms that the FMI sandbox instruments may take for the purposes of
trading as part of the FMI sandbox arrangements.

4.3

Limitations or prohibitions on the trading of the FMI sandbox instruments, or
of other instruments that are converted from, or are otherwise linked to, the
FMI sandbox instruments.

4.4

Limitations (whether by reference to number, value or another metric) on the
amount of FMI sandbox instruments permitted for trading under the FMI sandbox
arrangements.

4.5

References in this paragraph to the trading of FMI sandbox instruments include
references to their settlement.

##### Settlement of payments

5

5.1

How payments are to be settled in respect of transactions taking place under
the FMI sandbox arrangements.

5.2

Provision under sub-paragraph (1) includes provision as to cash settlement or
whatever other forms of settlement the provision may specify.

##### Requirements

6

6.1

Requirements applicable—

6.1.a

to persons participating in the FMI sandbox arrangements, and

6.1.b

to other persons in connection with such arrangements.

6.2

Provision under this paragraph includes provision conferring powers on the
appropriate regulator to make rules or technical standards applicable for the
purposes of the FMI sandbox arrangements.

##### Cooperation

7

Duties of the appropriate regulators to cooperate with each other for the
purposes of implementing and operating the FMI sandbox arrangements.

##### Transparency and reporting

8

8.1

Publication of specified details of the FMI sandbox arrangements by the
Treasury or the appropriate regulator (or both).

8.2

Duties of appropriate regulators to provide the Treasury with information
about the operation of the FMI sandbox arrangements.

8.3

Requirements imposed by virtue of this paragraph are in addition to the
requirement imposed by section 14.

##### Enforcement

9

9.1

How requirements imposed by or under the FMI sandbox arrangements are to be
enforced.

9.2

Provision under sub-paragraph (1) may be made by—

9.2.a

conferring powers on the appropriate regulator;

9.2.b

applying provisions of FSMA 2000 in relation to enforcement;

9.2.c

imposing other means of enforcement set out in the arrangements.

9.3

The powers mentioned in sub-paragraph (2)(a) include powers to—

9.3.a

suspend or terminate a person’s participation in the FMI sandbox arrangements;

9.3.b

impose civil penalties.

  Financial promotion: related amendments

Section 20

1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

2

In section 1H (further interpretative provisions for sections 1B to 1G), in
subsection (2)(c) after “invitations” insert  “or inducements” .

3

In section 25 (contravention of section 21), in subsection (2)(a) after
“section 21” insert  “in accordance with subsection (2A) of that section” .

4

In section 55A (application for permission), after subsection (5) insert—

4.6

References in this section to permission under this Part do not include
references to permission under section 55NA.

5

5.1

Section 55O (imposition of requirements on acquisition of control) is amended
as follows.

5.2

In subsection (1)(b), after “power” insert  “or (as the case may be) the power
under section 55NA(5)(b)” .

5.3

In subsection (2)(a) for “or 55M” substitute  “, 55M or 55NA” .

5.4

In subsection (3), after “PRA-authorised person” insert  “and the case does
not relate to a requirement that is imposed (or that could be imposed) under
section 55NA” .

6

In section 55R (persons connected with an applicant), in subsection (1) after
paragraph (b) insert—

6.ba

an application for permission under section 55NA,

6.bb

whether to vary or cancel permission under section 55NA,

.

7

In section 55U (applications under Part 4A), after subsection (3) insert—

7.3A

An application for permission under section 55NA, or for the variation of
permission under that section, must contain a statement of the desired
permission or variation.

8

In section 55V (determination of applications), in subsection (5)—

8.a

omit “or” at the end of paragraph (c);

8.b

after paragraph (d) insert

, or

8.b.e

for permission under section 55NA or for the variation or cancellation of
permission granted under that section,

.

9

9.1

Section 55X (determination of applications: warning notices and decision
notices) is amended as follows.

9.2

In subsection (1)—

9.2.a

omit “or” at the end of paragraph (d);

9.2.b

after paragraph (e) insert—

9.2.b.f

to give permission under section 55NA but to exercise its power under
subsection (4)(b) of that section, or

9.2.b.g

to vary permission under section 55NA on the application of an authorised
person but to exercise its power under subsection (4)(b) of that section,

.

9.3

In subsection (4)—

9.3.a

omit “or” at the end of paragraph (e);

9.3.b

after that paragraph insert—

9.3.b.ea

to give permission under section 55NA but to exercise its power under
subsection (4)(b) of that section,

9.3.b.eb

to vary permission under section 55NA on the application of an authorised
person but to exercise its power under subsection (4)(b) of that section, or

.

10

10.1

Section 55Y (exercise of own-initiative power: procedure) is amended as
follows.

10.2

After subsection (1) insert—

10.2.1A

This section also applies to an exercise of the FCA’s power under subsection
(5)(b) of section 55NA to vary of its own initiative a permission given under
that section to an authorised person (“ A ”).

10.2.1B

References in this section to a regulator’s own initiative variation power are
to be taken as including the power mentioned in subsection (1A).

10.3

For subsection (4) substitute—

10.3.4

If either regulator—

10.3.4.a

proposes to vary a Part 4A permission or to impose or vary a requirement,

10.3.4.b

varies a Part 4A permission, or imposes or varies a requirement, with
immediate effect,

10.3.4.c

proposes to vary a permission under section 55NA, or

10.3.4.d

varies permission under section 55NA with immediate effect,

it must give A written notice.

11

11.1

Section 55Z (cancellation of Part 4A permission: procedure) is amended as
follows.

11.2

In the heading, after “permission” insert  “or permission under section 55NA”
.

11.3

In subsection (1) after “permission” insert  “or permission under section
55NA” .

11.4

In subsection (2) after “permission” insert  “or permission under section
55NA” .

12

In section 55Z3 (right to refer matters to the Tribunal), after subsection (2)
insert—

12.2A

An authorised person who is aggrieved by the exercise by the FCA of its power
under section 55NA(5)(b) may refer the matter to the Tribunal.

  Digital settlement assets

Section 22

##### Amendments to the Banking Act 2009

1

The Banking Act 2009 is amended as follows.

2

In the heading to Part 5 (payment systems), after “systems” insert  “and
service providers” .

3

In section 181 (overview), after “services” insert  “, including” .

4

4.1

Section 182 (interpretation of payment system) is amended as follows.

4.2

In the heading, for ““payment system”” substitute  “key terms” .

4.3

In subsection (1), after “money” insert  “or digital settlement assets” .

4.4

After subsection (4) insert—

4.4.4A

In subsection (1) “ digital settlement asset ” means a digital representation
of value or rights, whether or not cryptographically secured, that—

4.4.4A.a

can be used for the settlement of payment obligations,

4.4.4A.b

can be transferred, stored or traded electronically, and

4.4.4A.c

uses technology supporting the recording or storage of data (which may include
distributed ledger technology).

4.4.4B

In this section, “ digital settlement asset ” includes a right to, or an
interest in, a digital settlement asset.

4.5

After subsection (5) insert—

4.5.5A

In this Part, a “DSA service provider” is a person who provides one or more
services in relation to a payment system that includes arrangements using
digital settlement assets where—

4.5.5A.a

the person creates or issues the digital settlement assets involved in the
payment system,

4.5.5A.b

the person provides services to safeguard, or to safeguard and administer,
digital settlement assets including their private cryptographic keys (or means
of access),

4.5.5A.c

the person is directly involved in any of the activities mentioned in
paragraphs (a) or (b),

4.5.5A.d

the person is a digital settlement asset exchange provider,

4.5.5A.e

the person sets rules, standards, or conditions of access or participation in
relation to the payment system, or

4.5.5A.f

the person provides any service that facilitates, or supports, a transfer of
money or digital settlement assets to be made using the payment system,
including any infrastructure provider in relation to the system.

4.5.5B

In this Part “ digital settlement asset exchange provider ” means a person who
provides one or more of the following services, including as creator or issuer
of any of the digital settlement assets, by—

4.5.5B.a

exchanging, or arranging the exchange of—

4.5.5B.a.i

digital settlement assets for money,

4.5.5B.a.ii

money for digital settlement assets,

4.5.5B.a.iii

digital settlement assets and money for digital settlement assets, or

4.5.5B.a.iv

digital settlement assets and money for money,

4.5.5B.b

exchanging, or arranging the exchange of, one digital settlement asset for
another, or

4.5.5B.c

operating an automated process to carry out any of the activities mentioned in
paragraphs (a) and (b).

4.5.5C

The Treasury may by regulations amend—

4.5.5C.a

the definition of “digital settlement asset” in subsection (4A);

4.5.5C.b

the definition of “DSA service provider” in subsection (5A);

4.5.5C.c

the definition in section 206AA of a person who provides services connected
with a recognised payment system that uses digital settlement assets.

5

5.1

Section 183 (interpretation of other expressions) is amended as follows.

5.2

In the opening words of paragraph (k) after “system” insert  “or to a DSA
service provider” .

5.3

In sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (k), after “constituting” insert  “, or
connected with,” .

6

In the cross-heading before section 184 (recognition order), after “systems”
insert  “and service providers” .

7

In the heading to section 184 , after “order” insert  “: payment system” .

8

In section 184, in subsection (4), after “constituting” insert  “or connected
with” .

9

After section 184 insert—

######### Recognition order: DSA service provider

9.184A

9.184A.1

The Treasury may by order (“recognition order”) specify a DSA service provider
as a recognised DSA service provider for the purposes of this Part.

9.184A.2

A recognition order under this section must specify in as much detail as is
reasonably practicable the services provided.

9.184A.3

The Treasury may not specify a DSA service provider operated solely by the
Bank of England.

10

In the heading to section 185 (recognition criteria) after “criteria” insert
“: payment system” .

11

After section 185 insert—

######### Recognition criteria: DSA service provider

11.185A

11.185A.1

The Treasury may make a recognition order in respect of a DSA service provider
only if satisfied that any deficiencies in the services provided by the
service provider, or any disruption to the provision of those services, would
be likely—

11.185A.1.a

to threaten the stability of, or confidence in, the UK financial system, or

11.185A.1.b

to have serious consequences for business or other interests throughout the
United Kingdom.

11.185A.2

In considering whether to specify a DSA service provider the Treasury must
have regard to—

11.185A.2.a

the value of the services in relation to payment systems that the DSA service
provider presently provides or is likely to provide in the future,

11.185A.2.b

the nature of the services in relation to payment systems that the DSA service
provider provides,

11.185A.2.c

whether those services or their equivalent could be provided by others, and

11.185A.2.d

the relationship between the DSA service provider and—

11.185A.2.d.i

operators of payment systems that use digital settlement assets, and

11.185A.2.d.ii

other DSA service providers.

12

12.1

Section 186 (procedure) is amended as follows.

12.2

In the opening words of subsection (1) after “system” insert  “or a DSA
service provider” .

12.3

After subsection (1)(a) insert—

12.3.aa

in the case of a recognition order in respect of a DSA service provider,
consult the FCA,

.

12.4

In subsection (1)(b), after “system” insert  “or the DSA service provider (as
appropriate)” .

12.5

In subsection (2)(a), for “the operator of which” substitute  “or a DSA
service provider, where the operator of the system or the provider” .

12.6

In subsection (2)(b), after “operator” insert  “or provider” .

12.7

In subsection (3), after “system” insert  “or a DSA service provider” .

13

13.1

Section 186A (amendment of recognition order) is amended as follows.

13.2

After subsection (2)(a) insert—

13.2.aa

in the case of a recognition order in respect of a DSA service provider,
consult the FCA,

.

13.3

In subsection (2)(b), after “system” insert  “or the recognised DSA service
provider (as appropriate)” .

13.4

In subsection (3)(a), for “the operator of which” substitute  “or a DSA
service provider, where the operator of the system or the provider” .

13.5

In subsection (3)(b), after “operator” insert  “or provider” .

13.6

In subsection (4)—

13.6.a

after first “system” insert  “or by a recognised DSA service provider” ,

13.6.b

after second “system” insert  “or provider,” .

14

14.1

Section 187 (de-recognition) is amended as follows.

14.2

In subsection (2)—

14.2.a

the words after “satisfied” become paragraph (a),

14.2.b

after that paragraph insert

, or

14.2.b.b

that the criteria in section 185A are met in respect of the recognised DSA
service provider.

14.3

After subsection (3)(a) insert—

14.3.aa

in the case of a recognition order in respect of a DSA service provider,
consult the FCA,

.

14.4

In subsection (3)(b), after “system” insert  “or the recognised DSA service
provider (as appropriate)” .

14.5

In subsection (4)(a), for “the operator of which” substitute  “or a DSA
service provider, where the operator of the system or the provider” .

14.6

In subsection (4)(b), after “operator” insert  “or provider” .

14.7

In subsection (5), after “system” insert  “, or by a recognised DSA service
provider” .

15

15.1

Section 188 (principles) is amended as follows.

15.2

In subsection (1)—

15.2.a

the words after “publish” to the second “systems” become paragraph (a);

15.2.b

after that paragraph insert

,

15.2.b.b

principles to which recognised DSA service providers are to have regard in the
provision of services to payment systems (whether or not recognised),

;

15.2.c

the words after “and” become paragraph (c);

15.2.d

at end insert  “or to such DSA service providers” .

16

In section 189 (codes of practice)—

16.a

the words after “about” to the first “systems” become paragraph (a);

16.b

after that paragraph, insert

,

16.b.b

the provision of services by DSA service providers in relation to payment
systems (whether or not recognised), or

;

16.c

omit “and”;

16.d

the words after “and” become paragraph (c);

16.e

at end insert  “or to such DSA service providers” .

17

In section 190 (system rules), in subsection (1)(a)—

17.a

after “constituting” insert  “, or connected with,” ;

17.b

at end insert  “, or a DSA service provider” .

18

After section 190 insert—

######### Service provider rules

18.190A

18.190A.1

The Bank of England may require a recognised DSA service provider—

18.190A.1.a

to establish rules for the operation of services provided by the recognised
DSA service provider;

18.190A.1.b

to establish rules for the operation of services provided by a service
provider to the recognised DSA service provider;

18.190A.1.c

to change the rules in a specified way or so as to achieve a specified
purpose;

18.190A.1.d

to notify the Bank of any proposed change to the rules;

18.190A.1.e

not to change the rules without the approval of the Bank.

18.190A.2

A requirement under subsection (1)(d) or (e) may be general or specific.

19

19.1

Section 191 (directions) is amended as follows.

19.2

In subsection (1)—

19.2.a

the words after the first “to” to the first “system” become paragraph (a);

19.2.b

after that paragraph insert

,

19.2.b.b

to a recognised DSA service provider,

;

19.2.c

the words after “or” become paragraph (c);

19.2.d

at the end of that paragraph insert  “or to such DSA service providers” .

19.3

In subsection (2)—

19.3.a

in paragraph (a), omit “to the system”;

19.3.b

in paragraph (b), omit “to the system”.

19.4

In subsection (3)—

19.4.a

after “operator” insert  “, DSA service provider” ;

19.4.b

after “operator’s” insert  “, DSA service provider’s” .

19.5

In subsection (4)(b), after “operator” insert  “, DSA service provider” .

20

After section 192 (role of FCA and PRA), insert—

######### Power of Bank to require FCA to refrain from specified action

20.192A

20.192A.1

Where the first, second and third conditions are met, the Bank of England may
give a direction under this section to the FCA.

20.192A.2

The first condition is that the FCA is proposing to exercise any of its powers
in relation to—

20.192A.2.a

a recognised payment system that includes arrangements using digital
settlement assets, or

20.192A.2.b

a recognised DSA service provider.

20.192A.3

The second condition is that the Bank of England is of the opinion that the
exercise of the power in the manner proposed may—

20.192A.3.a

threaten the stability of the UK financial system,

20.192A.3.b

have serious consequences for business or other interests in the United
Kingdom (including for the payment system or provider in relation to which the
powers are proposed to be exercised), or

20.192A.3.c

have an adverse effect on the Bank’s ability to act in its capacity as a
monetary authority.

20.192A.4

The third condition is that the Bank of England is of the opinion that the
giving of the direction is necessary in order to avoid an outcome mentioned in
subsection (3).

20.192A.5

A direction under this section is a direction requiring the FCA not to
exercise the power or not to exercise it in a specified manner.

20.192A.6

The direction may be expressed to have effect during a specified period or
until revoked.

20.192A.7

The FCA is not required to comply with a direction under this section if or to
the extent that in the opinion of the FCA compliance would be incompatible
with any international obligation of the United Kingdom.

21

21.1

Section 193 (inspection) is amended as follows.

21.2

In subsection (1)—

21.2.a

after first “system” insert  “, a recognised DSA service provider” ;

21.2.b

after second “system” insert  “or such a DSA service provider” .

21.3

In the opening words of subsection (2)—

21.3.a

after first “system” insert  “, or a recognised DSA service provider” ;

21.3.b

after second “system” insert  “or such a DSA service provider” .

22

22.1

Section 194 (inspection: warrant) is amended as follows.

22.2

In subsection (1)(a)—

22.2.a

at end of sub-paragraph (i), omit “or” and insert—

22.2.a.ia

a recognised DSA service provider, or

;

22.2.b

in sub-paragraph (ii), after “system” insert  “or a recognised DSA service
provider” .

22.3

In subsection (2)(a), after “system” insert  “, the DSA service provider” .

22.4

In subsection (3), after “system” insert  “, the DSA service provider” .

23

23.1

Section 195 (independent report) is amended as follows.

23.2

In subsection (1)(a), omit “or”.

23.3

After subsection (1)(b), insert—

23.3.c

a recognised DSA service provider to appoint an expert to report on the
provision of services to payment systems (whether or not recognised), or

23.3.d

a service provider in relation to a recognised DSA service provider to appoint
an expert to report on the provision of services to the DSA service provider.

23.4

In subsection (2)(a), after “operator” insert  “, recognised DSA service
provider” .

23.5

In subsection (2)(b), after “operator” insert  “, recognised DSA service
provider” .

24

In section 196 (compliance failure)—

24.a

after first “system” insert  “, a recognised DSA service provider” ;

24.b

after second “system” insert  “or such a DSA service provider” .

25

In section 197 (publication), in subsection (1)—

25.a

after first “system” insert  “, a recognised DSA service provider” ;

25.b

after second “system” insert  “or such a DSA service provider” .

26

In section 198 (penalty), in subsection (1)—

26.a

after first “system” insert  “, a recognised DSA service provider” ;

26.b

after second “system” insert  “or such a DSA service provider” .

27

27.1

Section 199 (closure) is amended as follows.

27.2

In subsection (2)—

27.2.a

after “concerned” insert  “, the DSA service provider concerned” ;

27.2.b

after second “system” insert  “, providing services,” ;

27.2.c

after third “system” insert  “or recognised DSA service provider” .

27.3

In subsection (3)(a)—

27.3.a

after first “system” insert  “, or DSA service provider” ;

27.3.b

after second “system” insert  “, or a recognised DSA service provider” .

27.4

In subsection (3A)—

27.4.a

after “system” insert  “, or of each recognised DSA service provider,” ;

27.4.b

after “206A(2)(b)” insert  “or 206A(2A)(b) (as the case may be).”

27.5

In subsection (4), after “operator” insert  “, DSA service provider,” .

28

28.1

Section 200 (management disqualification) is amended as follows.

28.2

In subsection (1), after “system” insert  “or from being a DSA service
provider” .

28.3

In subsection (2)—

28.3.a

after first “system” insert  “, or a recognised DSA service provider,” ;

28.3.b

after second “system” insert  “or such a DSA service provider” .

28.4

In subsection (2A)—

28.4.a

after “system” insert  “, or of each recognised DSA service provider,” ;

28.4.b

after “206A(2)(b)” insert  “or 206A(2A)(b) (as the case may be).”

29

29.1

Section 201 (warning) is amended as follows.

29.2

In subsection (1)—

29.2.a

after first “system” insert  “, on a DSA service provider,” ;

29.2.b

after second “system” insert  “or such a DSA service provider” ;

29.2.c

in paragraph (a), after “operator” insert  “, DSA service provider” ;

29.2.d

in paragraph (b), after “operator” insert  “, DSA service provider” ;

29.2.e

in paragraph (d), after “operator” insert  “, DSA service provider” .

29.3

In subsection (1A)—

29.3.a

after first “system” insert  “or recognised DSA service provider” ;

29.3.b

in paragraph (a), after “system” insert  “, or DSA service provider” ;

29.3.c

in paragraph (b), after “operator” insert  “, or DSA service provider” ;

29.3.d

in paragraph (d), after “operator” insert  “or DSA service provider” .

30

In section 202 (appeal), in subsection (2)—

30.a

after first “system” insert  “or recognised DSA service provider” ;

30.b

after second “system” insert  “or DSA service provider (as the case may be)” .

31

31.1

Section 202A (injunctions) is amended as follows.

31.2

In subsection (2)—

31.2.a

in paragraph (a)—

31.2.a.i

after first “system” insert  “, a recognised DSA service provider,” ;

31.2.a.ii

after second “system” insert  “or such a DSA service provider” ;

31.2.b

in the words following paragraph (b), after “operator” insert  “, DSA service
provider” .

31.3

In subsection (3)—

31.3.a

in paragraph (a)—

31.3.a.i

after first “system” insert  “, a recognised DSA service provider,” ;

31.3.a.ii

after second “system” insert  “or such a DSA service provider” ;

31.3.b

in the words following paragraph (b), after “operator” insert  “, DSA service
provider,” .

32

In section 203 (fees), in subsection (1)—

32.a

after first “systems” insert  “, recognised DSA service providers,” ;

32.b

after second “systems” insert  “or such DSA service providers” .

33

After section 203B (annual report) insert—

######### Policy statement

33.203C

33.203C.1

The Bank of England must prepare a statement of the general policy it proposes
to follow in relation to its oversight under this Part of —

33.203C.1.a

recognised payment systems that include arrangements using digital settlement
assets,

33.203C.1.b

DSA service providers, and

33.203C.1.c

service providers as described in sections 206A and 206AA.

33.203C.2

Before issuing a statement of policy under this section, the Bank must consult
the FCA.

33.203C.3

The Bank must —

33.203C.3.a

publish the statement on its website,

33.203C.3.b

send a copy to the Treasury, and

33.203C.3.c

review the statement from time to time and revise it if necessary (and
paragraphs (a) and (b) apply to a revision).

33.203C.4

Nothing in this section is to be regarded as preventing the Bank of England
from exercising any of its powers under this Part where it considers it
necessary to do so by reason of urgency, before it has prepared a statement
under this section.

34

34.1

Section 204 (information) is amended as follows.

34.2

In subsection (1)(a), after “206A(2)(b)” insert  “or 206A(2A)(b)” .

34.3

In subsection (1A)—

34.3.a

after first “system” insert  “, a recognised DSA service provider,” ;

34.3.b

after second “system” insert  “or such a DSA service provider” .

34.4

In subsection (2)—

34.4.a

after first “system” insert  “, a recognised DSA service provider,” ;

34.4.b

after second “system” insert  “or such a DSA service provider” .

35

35.1

Section 205 (pretending to be recognised) is amended as follows.

35.2

In the opening words of subsection (1) after “system” insert  “or DSA service
provider” .

35.3

In subsection (1)(a), after “system” insert  “or provider” .

35.4

In subsection (1)(b), after “system” insert  “or provider” .

35.5

In subsection (1A), after “system” insert  “or recognised DSA service
provider” .

36

36.1

Section 206 (saving for informal oversight) is amended as follows.

36.2

In subsection (1)—

36.2.a

after first “systems” insert  “, DSA service providers” ;

36.2.b

after second “systems” insert  “or DSA service providers” .

36.3

In subsection (2)—

36.3.a

after first “systems” insert  “, DSA service providers” ;

36.3.b

after second “systems” insert  “or DSA service providers” .

37

37.1

Section 206A (services forming part of recognised payment systems) is amended
as follows.

37.2

For the heading substitute  “Service providers” .

37.3

In subsection (1)—

37.3.a

omit the words “persons who are”;

37.3.b

the words after “providers” become paragraph (a);

37.3.c

after that paragraph insert

, or

37.3.c.b

in relation to a recognised DSA service provider.

37.4

After subsection (2) insert—

37.4.2A

A person is a service provider in relation to a recognised DSA service
provider if—

37.4.2A.a

the person provides services to the recognised DSA service provider, and

37.4.2A.b

the person is specified as a person within paragraph (a) by the Treasury in
the recognition order made in respect of the DSA service provider.

37.4.2B

A payment system that includes arrangements using digital settlement assets is
a service provider in relation to a recognised DSA service provider if—

37.4.2B.a

the system provides services to the recognised DSA service provider, and

37.4.2B.b

the system is specified as a system within paragraph (a) by the Treasury in
the recognition order made in respect of the DSA service provider.

37.5

After subsection (3) insert—

37.5.3A

In relation to a recognised payment system that includes arrangements using
digital settlement assets, subsection (2)(a) includes a person providing
services connected with the system. See section 206AA.

37.6

In the opening words of subsection (4), after “(2)(b)” insert  “or (2A)(b) or
systems under subsection (2B)(b)” .

37.7

In subsection (4)(b) after “system” insert  “or DSA service provider” .

37.8

In subsection (5) after “(2)(b)” insert  “, (2A)(b) or (2B)(b)” .

38

After section 206A insert—

######### Service providers connected with a recognised payment system that uses digital settlement assets

38.206AA

For the purposes of section 206A(3A), a person provides services connected
with the system where—

38.206AA.a

the person creates or issues the digital settlement assets involved in the
payment system,

38.206AA.b

the person provides services to safeguard, or to safeguard and administer,
digital settlement assets including their private cryptographic keys (or means
of access),

38.206AA.c

the person is directly involved in any of the activities mentioned in
paragraphs (a) or (b),

38.206AA.d

the person is a digital settlement asset exchange provider,

38.206AA.e

the person sets rules, standards, or conditions of access or participation in
relation to the payment system, or

38.206AA.f

the person provides any service that facilitates, or supports, a transfer of
money or digital settlement assets to be made using the payment system,
including any infrastructure provider in relation to the system.

39

In section 259 (statutory instruments), in the Table in subsection (3), in
Part 5, at the appropriate place insert—

          182(5C) Meaning of “digital settlement asset” and “DSA service
provider” Draft affirmative resolution

##### Amendments to the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013

40

The Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013 is amended as follows.

41

41.1

Section 41 (meaning of payment system) is amended as follows.

41.2

After subsection (2) insert—

41.2.2A

In this Part—

      “ funds ” includes digital settlement assets (except in section
41(2)(e));           “ digital settlement asset ” means a digital
representation of value or rights, whether or not cryptographically secured,
that—         can be used for the settlement of payment obligations,
can be transferred, stored or traded electronically, and           uses
technology supporting the recording or storage of data (which may include
distributed ledger technology).

41.2.2B

In this section, “ digital settlement asset ” includes a right to, or interest
in, a digital settlement asset.

41.2.2C

The Treasury may by regulations amend the definition of “digital settlement
asset” in subsection (2A).

42

42.1

Section 42 (participants in payment systems) is amended as follows.

42.2

In subsection (2)(c), for “subsection (5)” substitute  “subsections (5) and
(5A)” .

42.3

After subsection (5) insert—

42.3.5A

“ Payment service provider ” in relation to a payment system that includes
arrangements using digital settlement assets means—

42.3.5A.a

a person responsible for managing the issuance and redemption of digital
settlement assets;

42.3.5A.b

a person whose business or occupation is to safeguard, or to safeguard and
administer digital settlement assets, including their private cryptographic
keys (or means of access);

42.3.5A.c

a digital settlement asset exchange provider;

42.3.5A.d

a person who—

42.3.5A.d.i

sets rules, standards, or conditions of access or participation in relation to
the system, or

42.3.5A.d.ii

provides any service that facilitates, or supports, a transfer of money or
digital settlement assets to be made using the system, including any
infrastructure provider in relation to the system.

43

In section 98 (duty of regulators to ensure co-ordinated exercise of
functions), for paragraph (c) of subsection (5) substitute—

43.c

in relation to the FCA—

43.c.i

the functions conferred on it by or under FSMA 2000 (see section 1A(6) of that
Act);

43.c.ii

the functions conferred on it by or under Part 3 of the Payment Card
Interchange Fee Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/1911 );

43.c.iii

the functions conferred on it by or under the Electronic Money Regulations
2011 ( S.I. 2011/99 );

43.c.iv

its functions in regulating—

43.c.iv.a

credit institutions where authorised under Part 4A of FSMA 2000, or

43.c.iv.b

authorised payment institutions under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (
S.I. 2017/752 ).

44

In section 110 (interpretation of Part), at the appropriate place insert—

      “ digital settlement asset ” has the meaning given by section 41(2A);

;

      “ digital settlement asset exchange provider ” has the meaning given by
section 182(5B) of the Banking Act 2009;

.

45

In section 112 (interpretation: infrastructure companies), after subsection
(2)(a) insert—

45.aa

a recognised DSA service provider,

46

In section 113 (interpretation: other expressions), in subsection (1) at the
appropriate place insert—

      “ recognised DSA service provider ” means a DSA service provider, as
defined by section 182(5A) of the Banking Act 2009, in respect of which a
recognition order under section 184A of that Act is in force;

.

47

47.1

Section 115 (objective of FMI administration) is amended as follows.

47.2

In the opening words of subsection (1) after system insert  “, or a recognised
DSA service provider,” .

47.3

In subsection (1)(a) after “system” in each place, insert  “or provider” .

48

In section 143 (Parliamentary control of orders and regulations), after
subsection (2)(a) insert—

48.aa

regulations under section 41(2C) (meaning of “ digital settlement asset ”);

.

  Accountability of the Payment Systems Regulator

Section 51

1

The Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013 is amended as follows.

2

In section 39 (overview)—

2.a

after subsection (11) insert—

2.a.11A

Sections 102A and 102B contain provision about Treasury powers to make
recommendations in connection with the Payment Systems Regulator’s general
duties and to specify matters to which the Regulator must have regard when
exercising certain functions.

;

2.b

in subsection (12) for “107” substitute  “107A” .

3

In section 53 (regulatory principles), in paragraph (c) at the end insert  “,
including in a way consistent with contributing towards achieving compliance
by the Secretary of State with section 1 of the Climate Change Act 2008 (UK
net zero emissions target) and section 5 of the Environment Act 2021
(environmental targets) where the Payment Systems Regulator considers the
exercise of its functions to be relevant to the making of such a
contribution;” .

4

After section 102 (power of PRA to require Regulator to refrain from specified
action), insert—

######## Recommendations

######### Recommendations by Treasury in connection with general duties

4.102A

4.102A.1

The Treasury may at any time by notice in writing to the Payment Systems
Regulator make recommendations to the Regulator about aspects of the economic
policy of His Majesty’s Government to which the Regulator should have regard
when considering—

4.102A.1.a

how to advance one or more of its payment systems objectives,

4.102A.1.b

the application of the regulatory principles in section 53, and

4.102A.1.c

its exercise of functions under—

4.102A.1.c.i

Regulation (EU) 2015/751  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29
April 2015 on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions,

4.102A.1.c.ii

the Payment Card Interchange Fee Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/1911 ), or

4.102A.1.c.iii

the Payment Services Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/752 ).

4.102A.2

The Treasury must make recommendations under subsection (1) at least once in
each Parliament.

4.102A.3

The Payment Systems Regulator must respond to each recommendation made to it
under subsection (1) by notifying the Treasury in writing of—

4.102A.3.a

action that the Regulator has taken or intends to take in accordance with the
recommendation, or

4.102A.3.b

the reasons why the Regulator has not acted or does not intend to act in
accordance with the recommendation.

4.102A.4

The notice under subsection (3) must be given before the end of 12 months
beginning with the date the notice containing the recommendation was given
under subsection (1).

4.102A.5

Where the Payment Systems Regulator has given notice under subsection (3) in
relation to a recommendation, the Regulator must by notice in writing update
the Treasury on the matters mentioned in subsection (3)(a) and (b) before the
end of each subsequent period of 12 months.

4.102A.6

Subsection (5) does not apply if the Treasury have notified the Payment
Systems Regulator in writing that no update (or further update) is required.

4.102A.7

The Payment Systems Regulator is not required under subsection (3) or (5) to
provide any information whose publication would in the opinion of the
Regulator be against the public interest.

4.102A.8

The Treasury must—

4.102A.8.a

publish in such manner as they think fit any notice given under subsection
(1), (3) or (5), and

4.102A.8.b

lay a copy of it before Parliament.

5

Before section 103 (regulator’s general duty to consult) insert (under the
italic heading  “Consultation, accountability and oversight” )—

######## Matters to consider when imposing generally applicable requirements

5.102B

5.102B.1

This section applies where the Payment Systems Regulator proposes to impose a
generally applicable requirement (as defined by section 104(1)).

5.102B.2

The Regulator must have regard to any specified matters that are relevant to
the imposition of the requirement in question.

5.102B.3

“ Specified ” means specified in regulations made by the Treasury for the
purposes of this section.

5.102B.4

The specification of a matter for the purposes of this section may apply
generally to the exercise of a function or be limited in whatever way the
Treasury consider appropriate, including by reference to—

5.102B.4.a

the power under which the function is carried out;

5.102B.4.b

the persons to whom the carrying out of the function apply;

5.102B.4.c

the activities or subject-matter to which the function relates.

5.102B.5

The duty under subsection (2) is in addition to any other requirements to have
regard to matters when exercising relevant functions imposed by another
provision of this Act or by any other enactment.

6

In section 104 (consultation in relation to generally applicable
requirements)—

6.a

in subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a) for “section” substitute
“Part” ;

6.b

in subsection (3) after paragraph (b) insert—

6.b.ba

an explanation of the ways in which having regard to specified matters under
section 102B(2) has affected the proposed requirement,

;

6.c

after subsection (12) insert—

6.c.12A

The duty to provide the explanation referred to in subsection (3)(ba) does not
apply in relation to any proposed requirement which changes an existing
requirement and the changes consist of, or include, changes which, in the
Payment Systems Regulator’s opinion, are not material.

6.c.12B

Where an explanation is not provided by virtue of subsection (12A), the draft
of the proposed requirement must be accompanied by a statement of the Payment
Systems Regulator’s opinion.

7

After section 104 insert—

######## Requirements in connection with public consultations

7.104A

7.104A.1

This section applies where the Payment Systems Regulator issues a public
consultation.

7.104A.2

The Payment Systems Regulator must include information in the consultation
about any engagement by the Payment Systems Regulator with the statutory
panels of the Payment Systems Regulator, the FCA and the PRA in relation to
the matters being consulted on.

7.104A.3

The Payment Systems Regulator is not required under subsection (2) to include
any information whose publication would in the opinion of the Payment Systems
Regulator be against the public interest.

7.104A.4

For the purposes of this section, the Payment Systems Regulator issues a
public consultation if it publishes any proposals for the purpose of bringing
them to the attention of the public (whether or not under a duty to do so
imposed by an enactment).

7.104A.5

In this section a “statutory panel”—

7.104A.5.a

in relation to the Payment Systems Regulator, means a panel established under
section 103(3),

7.104A.5.b

in relation to the FCA, has the meaning given by section 1RA(8) of FSMA 2000,
and

7.104A.5.c

in relation to the PRA, has the meaning given by section 2NA(8) of FSMA 2000.

######## Duty of Regulator to review generally applicable requirements

7.104B

The Payment Systems Regulator must keep under review generally any generally
applicable requirements.

######## Statement of policy relating to review of requirements

7.104C

7.104C.1

The Payment Systems Regulator must prepare and publish a statement of its
policy with respect to its review of requirements under section 104B.

7.104C.2

The statement must provide information about—

7.104C.2.a

how representations (including by a relevant panel) can be made to the
Regulator with respect to its review of requirements under section 104B, and

7.104C.2.b

the arrangements to ensure that those representations are considered.

7.104C.3

In this section “ relevant panel ” means—

7.104C.3.a

a panel of the Payment Systems Regulator established under section 103(3),

7.104C.3.b

a panel of the FCA mentioned in section 1RA(8) of FSMA 2000, and

7.104C.3.c

a panel of the PRA mentioned in section 2NA(8) of FSMA 2000.

7.104C.4

If a statement published under this section is altered or replaced by the
Payment Systems Regulator, the Regulator must publish the altered or replaced
statement.

7.104C.5

A statement prepared under this section must be published by the Payment
Systems Regulator in the way appearing to the Regulator to be best designed to
bring it to the attention of the public.

######## Requirement to review specified requirements

7.104D

7.104D.1

The Treasury may by direction require the Payment Systems Regulator to carry
out a review of any generally applicable requirement specified in the
direction if—

7.104D.1.a

the requirement has been in force for at least 12 months,

7.104D.1.b

the Treasury consider that it is in the public interest that the requirement
is reviewed, and

7.104D.1.c

it does not appear to the Treasury that—

7.104D.1.c.i

the regulator is carrying out, or proposes to carry out, a review of that
requirement, or

7.104D.1.c.ii

if the regulator proposes to carry out a review, the proposals are appropriate
for the purposes of carrying out an effective review.

7.104D.2

The Treasury must consult the Payment Systems Regulator before giving a
direction under subsection (1).

7.104D.3

In exercising the power under this section, the Treasury must have regard to
the desirability of minimising any adverse effect that the carrying out of the
review may have on the exercise by the Payment Systems Regulator of any of its
other functions.

7.104D.4

A direction under subsection (1) may—

7.104D.4.a

specify the period within which a review must be carried out;

7.104D.4.b

determine the scope and conduct of a review;

7.104D.4.c

require the provision of interim reports during the carrying out of a review.

7.104D.5

Provision made in a direction under subsection (4)(b) may include a
requirement—

7.104D.5.a

for a review to be carried out by a person appointed by the Payment Systems
Regulator who is independent of the Regulator;

7.104D.5.b

for any such appointment to be made only with the approval of the Treasury.

7.104D.6

As soon as practicable after giving the direction the Treasury must—

7.104D.6.a

lay before Parliament a copy of the direction, and

7.104D.6.b

publish the direction in such manner as the Treasury think fit.

7.104D.7

Subsection (6) does not apply where the Treasury consider that publication of
the direction would be against the public interest.

7.104D.8

A direction under this section may be varied or revoked by the giving of a
further direction.

######## Report on certain reviews

7.104E

7.104E.1

This section applies where the Treasury have given a direction to the Payment
Systems Regulator under section 104D(1) to carry out a review.

7.104E.2

The Payment Systems Regulator must provide a written report to the Treasury as
to the opinion of the Regulator in relation to the following matters—

7.104E.2.a

whether the requirements under review advance one or more of the payment
systems objectives;

7.104E.2.b

whether and to what extent the requirements are functioning effectively and
achieving their intended purpose;

7.104E.2.c

whether any amendments need to be made to the requirements and, if so, what
those amendments should be;

7.104E.2.d

whether any requirements should be withdrawn (with or without replacement);

7.104E.2.e

whether any other action should be taken and, if so, what that action should
be.

7.104E.3

As soon as practicable after receiving the report the Treasury must—

7.104E.3.a

lay before Parliament a copy of the report, and

7.104E.3.b

publish the report in such manner as the Treasury think fit.

7.104E.4

When complying with subsection (3) the Treasury may withhold material from the
report if the Treasury consider that publication of the material would be
against the public interest.

######## Power of Treasury to require the imposition of generally applicable requirements

7.104F

7.104F.1

The Treasury may by regulations require the Payment Systems Regulator to
exercise a power under this Part to impose a generally applicable requirement
in relation to a specified activity or a specified description of person.

7.104F.2

Regulations under this section may—

7.104F.2.a

specify matters that the requirement must cover;

7.104F.2.b

specify a period within which the requirement must be made.

7.104F.3

But except so far as permitted by subsection (2), regulations under this
section may not require the requirement to be imposed—

7.104F.3.a

in a specified form or with specified content, or

7.104F.3.b

to achieve or advance a specified outcome.

7.104F.4

If no period is specified under subsection (2)(b) the requirement must be
imposed as soon as reasonably practicable after the coming into force of the
regulations.

######## Consultation with the FCA Cost Benefit Analysis Panel

7.104G

7.104G.1

Except as provided by subsection (2), the Payment Systems Regulator must
consult the FCA Cost Benefit Analysis Panel, and that Panel must provide
advice, about the following matters—

7.104G.1.a

the preparation of a cost benefit analysis under section 104(3)(a) or (6);

7.104G.1.b

the preparation of its statement of policy under section 104H.

7.104G.2

The requirement to consult under subsection (1)(a) does not apply in such
cases as may be set out in the statement of policy maintained under section
104H.

7.104G.3

The FCA Cost Benefit Analysis Panel must—

7.104G.3.a

keep under review how the Payment Systems Regulator is performing generally in
carrying out its duties under section 104(3)(a) and (6), and

7.104G.3.b

provide to the Payment Systems Regulator whatever recommendations the Panel
thinks appropriate as a result of such review.

7.104G.4

The Payment Systems Regulator must consider representations that are made to
it by the FCA Cost Benefit Analysis Panel.

7.104G.5

The Payment Systems Regulator must from time to time publish in such manner as
it thinks fit responses to the representations.

7.104G.6

In this section references to the “ FCA Cost Benefit Analysis Panel ” are to
the panel established under section 138IA of FSMA 2000.

######## Statement of policy in relation to cost benefit analyses

7.104H

7.104H.1

The Payment Systems Regulator must prepare and publish a statement of policy
in relation to the preparation of cost benefit analyses for the purposes of
section 104.

7.104H.2

The statement must provide information about—

7.104H.2.a

the methodology adopted in preparing cost benefit analyses;

7.104H.2.b

matters to which the Payment Systems Regulator has regard in determining
whether section 104(8) applies;

7.104H.2.c

matters to which the Payment Systems Regulator has regard in determining
whether section 104(10) or (11) applies in relation to the preparation of a
cost benefit analysis;

7.104H.2.d

arrangements to ensure that representations in connection with a cost benefit
analysis that are made in accordance with section 104(3)(d) are considered;

7.104H.2.e

cases in which the requirement to consult the FCA Cost Benefit Analysis Panel
in relation to the preparation of a cost benefit analysis does not apply.

7.104H.3

The statement may include whatever other information in relation to cost
benefit analyses that the Payment Systems Regulator considers appropriate.

7.104H.4

The Payment Systems Regulator may alter or replace a statement published under
this section.

7.104H.5

The Payment Systems Regulator must publish a statement as altered or replaced
under subsection (4).

7.104H.6

Publication under this section is to be made in such manner as the Payment
Systems Regulator considers best designed to bring the statement to the
attention of the public.

######## Statement of policy on panel appointments

7.104I

7.104I.1

The Payment Systems Regulator must prepare and publish a statement of policy
in relation to the appointment of members to any panel established under
section 103(3).

7.104I.2

The statement must provide information about—

7.104I.2.a

the process adopted for making appointments;

7.104I.2.b

matters considered in determining who is appointed.

7.104I.3

The statement may provide whatever other information in relation to the making
of appointments that the Payment Systems Regulator considers appropriate.

7.104I.4

The Payment Systems Regulator may alter or replace a statement published under
this section.

7.104I.5

The Payment Systems Regulator must publish a statement as altered or replaced
under subsection (4).

7.104I.6

Before publishing a statement under this section the Payment Systems Regulator
must—

7.104I.6.a

consult the Treasury about the proposed statement, and

7.104I.6.b

have regard to any representations the Treasury make in response to the
consultation.

7.104I.7

Publication under this section is to be made in such manner as the Payment
Systems Regulator considers best designed to bring the statement to the
attention of the public.

8

After section 107 insert—

######## International trade obligations

8.107A

8.107A.1

This section applies where it appears to the Payment Systems Regulator that
there is a material risk that a relevant action it proposes to take would be
incompatible with an international trade obligation.

8.107A.2

The Payment Systems Regulator must give written notice to the Treasury of the
proposed action before proceeding to take it.

8.107A.3

Subsection (2) applies only if a duty to consult applies in respect of the
taking of the relevant action.

8.107A.4

For the purposes of subsection  (1)  the Payment Systems Regulator proposes to
take a “relevant action” if it—

8.107A.4.a

proposes to impose a generally applicable requirement, or

8.107A.4.b

proposes to make changes to its general policies and practices.

8.107A.5

For the purposes of subsection (3) a duty to consult applies in respect of a
relevant action if—

8.107A.5.a

the duty imposed by section 104 to publish a draft of a proposed requirement
applies in respect of the action, or

8.107A.5.b

any other duty (whether or not imposed by a provision of this Act) to publish
the proposal to take the action in question applies.

8.107A.6

The requirement imposed by subsection (2) must be carried out before the duty
to consult in respect of the relevant action is carried out.

8.107A.7

Subsection (8) applies in a case where a notice under subsection (2) is not
given because of subsection (3).

8.107A.8

The Payment Systems Regulator must give written notice to the Treasury of the
relevant action it has taken as soon as reasonably practicable after taking it
if it appears to the Regulator that there is a material risk that the action
is incompatible with an international trade obligation.

8.107A.9

In this section “ international trade obligation ” means an obligation of the
United Kingdom that relates to financial services or markets under—

8.107A.9.a

a free trade agreement, as defined by section 5(1) of the Trade Act 2021, or

8.107A.9.b

the agreement establishing the World Trade Organisation signed at Marrakesh on
15 April 1994.

9

In section 110(1) (interpretation), at the appropriate place insert—

      “ generally applicable requirement ” has the meaning given by section
104(1);

.

10

In section 143 (orders and regulations: Parliamentary control), in subsection
(2), after paragraph (b) insert—

10.ba

regulations under section 102B (matters to consider when imposing generally
applicable requirements);

10.bb

regulations under section 104F (power to require imposition of generally
applicable requirements);

.

11

In Schedule 4 (the Payment Systems Regulator), after paragraph 7(2)(b) insert—

11.ba

set out any engagement with a statutory panel established under section
103(3),

11.bb

set out how the Regulator has complied with the statement of policy on panel
appointments prepared under section 104I in relation to the process for making
appointments and the matters considered in determining who is appointed,

.

12

In Schedule 4, after paragraph 7 insert—

######## Other reports

12.7A

12.7A.1

The Treasury may (subject to this paragraph) at any time by direction require
the Regulator to publish a report containing information about such matters as
are specified in the direction.

12.7A.2

The Treasury may give a direction under this paragraph requiring information
to be published only if the Treasury consider that—

12.7A.2.a

the information is reasonably necessary for the purpose of reviewing and
scrutinising the discharge of the Regulator’s functions, and

12.7A.2.b

other available information is not sufficient to meet that purpose.

12.7A.3

Subject to sub-paragraph (4), the Regulator must publish a report prepared
under a direction given under this paragraph in such manner, and within such
period, as the direction may require.

12.7A.4

Nothing in this paragraph requires the inclusion in the report of any
information whose publication would be against the public interest.

12.7A.5

A direction under this paragraph may not—

12.7A.5.a

require a report to be published more than once in each quarter;

12.7A.5.b

require the publication of information that is confidential information as
defined by section 91(2).

12.7A.6

The Treasury must consult the Regulator before giving a direction under this
paragraph.

12.7A.7

In exercising the power under this paragraph, the Treasury must have regard to
the desirability of minimising any adverse effect that the preparation of the
report required in accordance with the direction may have on the exercise by
the Regulator of any of its other functions.

12.7A.8

The Treasury must—

12.7A.8.a

lay before Parliament a copy of a direction given under this paragraph, and

12.7A.8.b

publish the direction in such manner as the Treasury think fit.

12.7A.9

A direction under this paragraph may be varied or revoked by the giving of a
further direction.

13

In Schedule 4, after paragraph 14 insert—

######## Engagement with Parliamentary Committees

13.14A

13.14A.1

This paragraph applies where the Regulator issues a relevant consultation.

13.14A.2

For the purposes of this paragraph the Regulator issues a relevant
consultation if it—

13.14A.2.a

publishes proposed generally applicable requirements under section 104,

13.14A.2.b

publishes a proposal under a duty imposed by another provision of this Act or
by any other enactment, or

13.14A.2.c

publishes other proposals about the exercise of any of its general functions.

13.14A.3

The Regulator must, as soon as reasonably practicable after issuing the
consultation, notify in writing the chair of each relevant Parliamentary
Committee that the consultation has been issued.

13.14A.4

The notification must specify the parts of the consultation (if any) that
address the ways in which the proposals subject to consultation—

13.14A.4.a

advance the Regulator’s payment systems objectives,

13.14A.4.b

demonstrate that the Regulator has had regard to the regulatory principles in
section 53 when preparing the proposals, and

13.14A.4.c

engage with matters to which the Regulator must have regard under regulations
made under section 102B.

13.14A.5

The notification must also specify any other part of the consultation which
the Regulator considers should be drawn to the attention of the relevant
Parliamentary Committees.

13.14A.6

References in this paragraph to the relevant Parliamentary Committees are
references to—

13.14A.6.a

the Treasury Committee of the House of Commons,

13.14A.6.b

the Committee of the House of Lords which—

13.14A.6.b.i

is charged with responsibility by that House for the purposes of this
paragraph, and

13.14A.6.b.ii

has notified the Regulator that it is a relevant Parliamentary Committee for
those purposes, and

13.14A.6.c

the Joint Committee of both Houses which—

13.14A.6.c.i

is charged with responsibility by those Houses for the purposes of this
paragraph, and

13.14A.6.c.ii

has notified the Regulator that it is a relevant Parliamentary Committee for
those purposes.

13.14A.7

References in this paragraph to the Treasury Committee of the House of
Commons—

13.14A.7.a

if the name of that Committee is changed, are references to that Committee by
its new name, and

13.14A.7.b

if the functions of that Committee (or substantially corresponding functions)
become functions of a different Committee of the House of Commons, are to be
treated as reference to the Committee by which the functions are exercisable.

13.14A.8

Any question arising under sub-paragraph (7) is to be determined by the
Speaker of the House of Commons.

13.14B

13.14B.1

This paragraph applies where—

13.14B.1.a

the Regulator issues a public consultation, and

13.14B.1.b

a Committee of the House of Commons or the House of Lords, or a joint
Committee of both Houses, has provided to the Regulator representations in
response to the consultation.

13.14B.2

For the purposes of this paragraph, the Regulator issues a public consultation
if it publishes the draft of any proposals for the purpose of bringing them to
the attention of the public (whether or not under a duty to do so imposed by
an enactment).

13.14B.3

The Regulator must give to the chair of the Committee concerned a written
response to the representations.

13.14B.4

The duty to respond imposed by sub-paragraph (3) applies only so far as the
Regulator would not be under a corresponding duty to do so imposed by another
enactment.

13.14B.5

The Regulator is not required under sub-paragraph (3) to provide any
information whose publication would in the opinion of the Regulator be against
the public interest.

  Cash access services

Section 54

##### New Part 8B of FSMA 2000

1

After Part 8A of FSMA 2000 (short selling) insert—

######### Cash access services

########## Introductory

########### Overview

1.131M

This Part—

1.131M.a

requires the Treasury to publish a statement of policy concerning cash deposit
and withdrawal services,

1.131M.b

enables the Treasury to designate persons involved in the provision of such
services, and

1.131M.c

gives the FCA functions in relation to designated persons.

########### Cash access services and coordination arrangements

1.131N

1.131N.1

This section defines “cash”, “cash access service”, “free cash access service”
and “ cash access coordination arrangements ” for the purposes of this Part.

1.131N.2

“ Cash ” means—

1.131N.2.a

banknotes issued by the Bank of England, or an authorised bank in its capacity
as an issuer of banknotes in Scotland or Northern Ireland (see Part 6 of the
Banking Act 2009), or

1.131N.2.b

coins made by the Mint, within the meaning of the Coinage Act 1971 (see
section 11 of that Act).

1.131N.3

A “cash access service” is—

1.131N.3.a

a service which enables cash to be placed on a relevant current account (a
“cash deposit service”), or

1.131N.3.b

a service which enables cash to be withdrawn from a relevant current account
(a “cash withdrawal service”).

1.131N.4

A “free cash access service” is a cash access service that is—

1.131N.4.a

a free of charge service which enables cash to be placed on a relevant
personal current account, or

1.131N.4.b

a free of charge service which enables cash to be withdrawn from a relevant
personal current account.

1.131N.5

“Cash access coordination arrangements” are arrangements—

1.131N.5.a

which are designed to coordinate the provision of cash access services by two
or more providers of such services, but

1.131N.5.b

which do not directly provide cash access services to any person.

1.131N.6

In relation to cash access coordination arrangements—

1.131N.6.a

a reference to the “ operator ” of such arrangements is to any person with
responsibility under the arrangements for managing or operating them;

1.131N.6.b

a reference to the operation of such arrangements includes their management.

1.131N.7

In this section, “ relevant current account ” has the meaning given by section
131O .

########### Current accounts and relevant current account providers

1.131O

1.131O.1

This section defines “current account”, “relevant current account”, “relevant
personal current account” and “ relevant current account provider ” for the
purposes of this Part.

1.131O.2

“ Current account ” means an account by means of which one or more named
persons are able to—

1.131O.2.a

place cash,

1.131O.2.b

withdraw cash, and

1.131O.2.c

execute and receive payment transactions to and from third parties, including
the execution of credit transfers.

1.131O.3

For the purposes of subsection  (2) (c) , “ payment transaction ” means an act
initiated by the payer or payee, or on behalf of the payer, of placing,
transferring or withdrawing funds, irrespective of any underlying obligations
between the payer and payee.

1.131O.4

A “ relevant personal current account ” means a relevant current account held
by one or more individuals for purposes outside any business, trade, craft or
profession of that individual or those individuals.

1.131O.5

“ Relevant current account provider ” means a person—

1.131O.5.a

who has a Part 4A permission to accept deposits, and

1.131O.5.b

who provides current accounts in reliance on that permission (“relevant
current accounts”).

1.131O.6

But the following are not relevant current account providers—

1.131O.6.a

credit unions, within the meaning given by section 31(1) of the Credit Unions
Act 1979 or Article 2(2) of the Credit Unions (Northern Ireland) Order 1985 (
S.I. 1985/1205)(N.I.12) ;

1.131O.6.b

a society that is registered within the meaning of the Friendly Societies Act
1974 (see section 111(1) of that Act) or incorporated under the Friendly
Societies Act 1992.

1.131O.7

The Treasury may by regulations—

1.131O.7.a

amend a definition in this section;

1.131O.7.b

amend any other provision of this Part in consequence of provision made under
paragraph  (a) .

########## Cash access policy statement

########### Cash access policy statement

1.131P

1.131P.1

The Treasury must prepare a cash access policy statement.

1.131P.2

A “cash access policy statement” is a statement of the policies of His
Majesty’s Government concerning cash access services in the United Kingdom, or
a part of the United Kingdom.

1.131P.3

The reference to cash access services in subsection (2) includes free cash
access services.

1.131P.4

Policies may be stated in relation to, among other things—

1.131P.4.a

cash deposit services and cash withdrawal services;

1.131P.4.b

services provided in relation to current accounts of different descriptions;

1.131P.4.c

services provided in predominantly urban areas and services provided in
predominantly rural areas.

1.131P.5

In preparing a cash access policy statement, the Treasury must—

1.131P.5.a

consult the FCA, and

1.131P.5.b

have regard to any report provided under section  131Q .

1.131P.6

The Treasury must publish a cash access policy statement in such manner as
they consider appropriate.

1.131P.7

The Treasury—

1.131P.7.a

must keep the cash access policy statement under review;

1.131P.7.b

may prepare a revised statement (and subsections  (5)  and  (6)  apply in
relation to any revised statement).

########### Provision of reports to assist the Treasury

1.131Q

1.131Q.1

The FCA must, on a request from the Treasury, prepare and send to the Treasury
a report on a matter specified in the request.

1.131Q.2

The Treasury may only make a request under this section for a report that they
reasonably require in connection with—

1.131Q.2.a

the preparation of a cash access policy statement (see section  131P ), or

1.131Q.2.b

a decision whether or not to designate a person for the purposes of this Part
(see section  131R ).

1.131Q.3

A request for a report under this section—

1.131Q.3.a

must be made in writing, and

1.131Q.3.b

may require the FCA to send the report to the Treasury within such reasonable
period as may be specified in the request (or such other period as may be
agreed).

1.131Q.4

Nothing in section 348, or in regulations made under section 349, is to be
taken as preventing or restricting the ability of the FCA to disclose
information to the Treasury for the purposes of this section.

1.131Q.5

Subsection  (4)  does not apply in relation to information provided to the FCA
by a regulatory authority outside the United Kingdom.

########## Designation

########### Designation

1.131R

1.131R.1

The Treasury may designate a person for the purposes of this Part if the
person is—

1.131R.1.a

a relevant current account provider, or

1.131R.1.b

an operator of cash access coordination arrangements, and at least one of the
participants in the arrangements is a relevant current account provider
designated under this section.

1.131R.2

A person is designated by giving the person (the “designated person”) a notice
in accordance with this Part (a “designation notice”).

1.131R.3

A designation notice must specify whether the person is designated in relation
to—

1.131R.3.a

the United Kingdom,

1.131R.3.b

Great Britain only, or

1.131R.3.c

Northern Ireland only.

1.131R.4

A designation notice given to the operator of cash access coordination
arrangements must specify the arrangements in as much detail as is reasonably
practicable.

1.131R.5

Before giving a designation notice to a person the Treasury must—

1.131R.5.a

consult the FCA,

1.131R.5.b

notify the person, and

1.131R.5.c

consider any representations made.

1.131R.6

A designated person must—

1.131R.6.a

comply with rules made by the FCA under section  131V ;

1.131R.6.b

comply with directions given by the FCA to the designated person under section
131W .

########### Designation criteria

1.131S

1.131S.1

The Treasury may designate a person for the purposes of this Part, in relation
to the United Kingdom, Great Britain only, or Northern Ireland only (as the
case may be), only if satisfied that doing so is likely to further the purpose
mentioned in section  131U (1) .

1.131S.2

In considering whether to designate a relevant current account provider, the
Treasury must have regard to—

1.131S.2.a

the distribution of cash access services operated by the provider in the
United Kingdom, Great Britain or Northern Ireland (as the case may be);

1.131S.2.b

the distribution in the United Kingdom, Great Britain or Northern Ireland (as
the case may be) of persons holding current accounts provided by the provider;

1.131S.2.c

the provider’s share of the current account market in the United Kingdom,
Great Britain or Northern Ireland (as the case may be);

1.131S.2.d

the total value of the deposits held in current accounts provided by the
provider in the United Kingdom, Great Britain or Northern Ireland (as the case
may be).

1.131S.3

If a relevant current account provider is part of a group which includes one
or more other relevant current account providers, references in subsection
(2)  to the provider are to be read as references to—

1.131S.3.a

the provider, and

1.131S.3.b

each of those other relevant current account providers.

1.131S.4

For the purposes of subsection  (3) , section 421 (meaning of “ group ”)
applies with the omission of subsection (1)(g) of that section.

########### Cancellation or variation of a designation notice

1.131T

1.131T.1

If a designation notice has been given to a person the Treasury may, by
further notice, cancel the designation notice.

1.131T.2

If a designation notice has been given to a person (including a designation
notice as varied by a notice under this subsection), the Treasury may by
further notice, vary the earlier notice.

1.131T.3

If a further notice under subsection  (2)  would designate a person in
relation to a part of the United Kingdom in relation to which the person was
not designated by the earlier notice, sections  131R (3)  and  (5)  and  131S
apply in relation to the further notice.

########## Supervision of designated persons

########### Purpose for which FCA must exercise functions under this Part

1.131U

1.131U.1

The FCA must exercise its functions under this Part for the purpose of seeking
to ensure reasonable provision of cash access services in the United Kingdom,
or a part of the United Kingdom.

1.131U.2

In this section references to cash access services include references to free
cash access services.

1.131U.3

“Reasonable provision” of cash access services is provision of such nature and
extent as the FCA may determine, having regard to—

1.131U.3.a

the cash access policy statement currently in effect (see section  131P ), and

1.131U.3.b

such other matters as it considers appropriate.

1.131U.4

In making a determination for the purposes of subsection  (3)  the FCA must,
in particular, have regard to any local deficiencies in provision of cash
access services—

1.131U.4.a

which the FCA is aware of, and

1.131U.4.b

the impacts of which the FCA considers to be significant.

1.131U.5

A local deficiency in provision of cash access services is a circumstance
which limits the ability of persons in any locality in a part of the United
Kingdom to—

1.131U.5.a

withdraw cash from a relevant current account, or

1.131U.5.b

place cash on a relevant current account.

1.131U.6

In determining whether there are local deficiencies in the provision of cash
access services, and the significance of the impacts of such deficiencies, the
FCA must have regard to—

1.131U.6.a

the cash access policy statement currently in effect, and

1.131U.6.b

such other matters as it considers appropriate.

1.131U.7

Those other matters may include (but are not limited to)—

1.131U.7.a

the number of persons likely to be affected by the deficiency;

1.131U.7.b

the characteristics of the persons likely to be affected by the deficiency;

1.131U.7.c

the likely impact on the persons likely to be affected.

########### FCA rules

1.131V

1.131V.1

The FCA may make such rules applying to designated persons as appear to the
FCA to be necessary or expedient for the purpose mentioned in section  131U
(1) .

1.131V.2

Rules under this section must not require a designated person to do (or
refrain from doing) any thing in relation to a part of the United Kingdom in
relation to which the person is not designated.

1.131V.3

Section 137T (general supplementary powers for rules made by a regulator)
applies in relation to rules made by the FCA under this section as if, in
paragraph (a), the reference to descriptions of authorised persons, activity
or investment were to descriptions of designated persons and activities
carried on by such persons.

1.131V.4

Section 138A (modification or waiver of rules) applies in relation to rules
made by the FCA under this section as if subsection (4)(b) were omitted.

1.131V.5

Section 138I (consultation by FCA before making rules) applies to rules under
this section as if, in subsection (2)(d), the reference to the FCA’s duties
under section 1B(1) and (5)(a) were to the purpose for which the FCA must
exercise its functions under this Part.

########### Power to direct designated persons

1.131W

1.131W.1

The FCA may give a direction under this section to a designated person if it
considers that it is desirable to give the direction for the purpose mentioned
in section  131U (1) .

1.131W.2

A direction under this section must not require a designated person to do (or
refrain from doing) any thing in relation to a part of the United Kingdom in
relation to which the person is not designated.

1.131W.3

A direction under this section may require the person to—

1.131W.3.a

take specified action;

1.131W.3.b

refrain from taking specified action;

1.131W.3.c

review, or take remedial action in respect of, past conduct.

1.131W.4

A requirement imposed by a direction under this section may be expressed to
expire at the end of a specified period, but the imposition of a requirement
that expires at the end of a specified period does not affect the power to
give a further direction imposing a new requirement.

1.131W.5

A direction under this section—

1.131W.5.a

may be revoked by the FCA by written notice to the person to whom it is given,
and

1.131W.5.b

ceases to be in force if the person to whom it is given ceases to be a
designated person.

########### Procedure for directions

1.131X

1.131X.1

If the FCA proposes to give a direction under section  131W , or gives such a
direction with immediate effect, it must give written notice to the designated
person to whom the direction is given (or to be given).

1.131X.2

A direction under section  131W  takes effect—

1.131X.2.a

immediately, if the notice under subsection  (1)  states that is the case,

1.131X.2.b

on such other date as may be specified in the notice, or

1.131X.2.c

if no date is specified in the notice, when the matter to which the notice
relates is no longer open to review.

1.131X.3

A direction under section  131W  may be expressed to take effect immediately
(or on a specified date) only if the FCA reasonably considers that it is
necessary for the direction to take effect immediately (or on that date).

1.131X.4

The notice under subsection  (1)  must—

1.131X.4.a

give details of the direction;

1.131X.4.b

state the FCA’s reasons for the direction and for its determination as to when
the direction takes effect;

1.131X.4.c

inform the designated person that the person may make representations to the
FCA within such period as may be specified in the notice (whether or not the
person has referred the matter to the Tribunal);

1.131X.4.d

inform the designated person of the person’s right to refer the matter to the
Tribunal.

1.131X.5

The FCA may extend the period allowed under the notice for making
representations.

1.131X.6

The FCA must give the designated person written notice if, having considered
any representations made by the person, it decides—

1.131X.6.a

to give the direction proposed;

1.131X.6.b

if the direction has been given, not to revoke the direction.

1.131X.7

The FCA must give the designated person written notice if, having considered
any representations made by the person, it decides—

1.131X.7.a

not to give the direction proposed;

1.131X.7.b

to give a different direction;

1.131X.7.c

to revoke a direction.

1.131X.8

A notice given under subsection  (6)  must inform the notified person of the
person’s right to refer the matter to the Tribunal.

1.131X.9

A notice under subsection  (7)(b)  must comply with subsection  (4) .

1.131X.10

If a notice informs the designated person of the person’s right to refer a
matter to the Tribunal, it must give an indication of the procedure on such a
reference.

1.131X.11

For the purposes of subsection  (2)(c) , whether a matter is open to review is
to be determined in accordance with section 391(8).

########### Information gathering and investigations

1.131Y

1.131Y.1

For the purposes of this Part, Part 11 (information gathering and
investigations) applies in accordance with this section.

1.131Y.2

Sections 165A to 165C, 169 and 169A do not apply.

1.131Y.3

Any reference to an authorised person includes a person designated for the
purposes of this Part (whether or not the person is an authorised person).

1.131Y.4

In addition—

1.131Y.4.a

references to an authorised person in sections 165 and 176(3A)(a) include a
person mentioned in subsection  (5)  (whether or not the person is an
authorised person);

1.131Y.4.b

sections 175 to 177 apply in relation to section 165 as modified in accordance
with paragraph  (a) .

1.131Y.5

The persons are—

1.131Y.5.a

a relevant current account provider who is not a designated person for the
purposes of this Part;

1.131Y.5.b

an operator of cash access coordination arrangements who is not a designated
person for the purposes of this Part;

1.131Y.5.c

the operator of, or an infrastructure provider in relation to, a payment
system, who is not a designated person for the purposes of this Part;

1.131Y.5.d

a person (other than a person mentioned in paragraph  (a) ,  (b)  or  (c) )
who provides cash access services and is not a designated person for the
purposes of this Part;

1.131Y.5.e

a person who provides a relevant service to a person mentioned in paragraph
(a) ,  (b) ,  (c)  or  (d)  and is not a designated person for the purposes of
this Part.

1.131Y.6

In subsection  (5)(c) , “payment system”, and “operator” and “ infrastructure
provider ” in relation to a payment system, have the same meanings as in Part
5 of the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013 (see section 110 of that
Act).

1.131Y.7

For the purposes of subsection  (5)(e) , a “relevant service” is a service
provided in connection with the provision of cash access services.

1.131Y.8

In relation to a person who is not an authorised person but is treated as such
for the purposes of this Part (by virtue of subsection  (3)  or  (4) ), any
reference to “either regulator” is to the FCA only.

########### Disciplinary measures

1.131Z

For the purposes of enforcing a requirement imposed by or under this Part,
Part 14 (disciplinary measures) applies as if—

1.131Z.a

any reference to an authorised person includes a person designated for the
purposes of this Part (whether or not that person is an authorised person),
and

1.131Z.b

section 206A (suspending permission to carry on regulated activities etc) were
omitted.

########### Costs of supervision

1.131Z1

Rules made under paragraph 23 of Schedule 1ZA, in connection with the carrying
out of any of the FCA’s functions under this Part, must not provide for the
payment of fees to the FCA by any person other than a designated person who is
a relevant current account provider.

########### Exclusion and modification of other FCA duties

1.131Z2

1.131Z2.1

Where the FCA is discharging a function under this Part, section 1B (FCA’s
general duties) applies as if—

1.131Z2.1.a

in subsection (1)(b), the reference to one or more of the FCA’s operational
objectives were to the purpose mentioned in section  131U (1) ;

1.131Z2.1.b

subsections (4) and (4A) (promoting effective competition in the interests of
consumers and advancing competitiveness and growth) do not apply.

1.131Z2.2

In discharging its functions under this Part, the regulatory principles in
section 3B(1) have effect as if, in paragraph (g), the reference to the FCA’s
objectives included the purpose mentioned in section  131U (1) .

1.131Z2.3

Section 395 applies in relation to a decision of the FCA made in connection
with a function under this Part as if, in subsection (3)(a), the reference to
the FCA’s operational objectives included the purpose mentioned in section
131U (1) .

##### Consequential amendments to FSMA 2000

2

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

3

In section 3D (duty of FCA and PRA to ensure co-ordinated exercise of
functions), in subsection (4), after “operational objectives”, insert  “, or
the purpose for which the FCA must exercise its functions under Part 8B (see
section  131U (1) )” .

4

In section 55H (variation by FCA at request of authorised person), in
subsection (4), after “objectives” insert  “, or the purpose for which the FCA
must exercise its functions under Part 8B (see section  131U (1) )” .

5

In section 55L (imposition of requirements by FCA), in subsection (6), after
“objectives” insert  “, or the purpose for which the FCA must exercise its
functions under Part 8B (see section  131U (1) )” .

6

In section 55T (persons whose interests are protected), after “operational
objectives,” insert  “the purpose for which the FCA must exercise its
functions under Part 8B,” .

7

In section 232A (ombudsman scheme operator’s duty to provide information to
FCA), after “objectives,” insert  “, or the purpose for which the FCA must
exercise its functions under Part 8B (see section  131U (1) ),” .

8

In section 395 (the FCA’s and PRA’s procedures), in subsection (13), after
paragraph (bbzb) insert—

8.bbzc

131W ;

9

In section 429 (Parliamentary control of statutory instruments), in subsection
(2), in the list of sections beginning with “90B” insert at the appropriate
place  “ 131O (7) ,” .

Wholesale cash distribution

Section 55

##### New Part 5A of the Banking Act 2009

1

After Part 5 of the Banking Act 2009 (payment systems) insert—

######### Wholesale cash distribution

########## Introduction

########### Overview and purpose

1.206C

1.206C.1

This Part enables the Bank of England to oversee certain persons involved in
wholesale cash distribution (as defined in section  206E ).

1.206C.2

The Bank must exercise its powers under this Part for the purpose of managing
risks to the effectiveness, resilience and sustainability of wholesale cash
distribution—

1.206C.2.a

throughout the United Kingdom, or

1.206C.2.b

throughout any part of the United Kingdom.

########### Policy statement

1.206D

1.206D.1

The Bank of England—

1.206D.1.a

must prepare a statement of its policy with respect to the exercise of its
powers under this Part,

1.206D.1.b

must from time to time review the statement, and

1.206D.1.c

may prepare a revised statement.

1.206D.2

When preparing a statement under this section, the Bank must consult such
persons as appear to the Bank to be representative of persons likely to be
affected by the statement.

1.206D.3

After preparing a statement under this section the Bank must—

1.206D.3.a

provide the statement to the Treasury, and

1.206D.3.b

publish the statement.

1.206D.4

The Treasury must lay a copy of each statement received under this section
before Parliament.

1.206D.5

No power conferred on the Bank by this Part may be exercised before a
statement under this section has been published.

########### Interpretation: “wholesale cash distribution”

1.206E

1.206E.1

In this Part—

“ wholesale cash distribution ” means the arrangements (taken as a whole) by
which banknotes issued by an issuing authority, or coins made by the Mint,
are— made available for retail cash distribution, and removed from
circulation; “wholesale cash distribution activities” are activities intended
to facilitate or control wholesale cash distribution and include (but are not
limited to)— purchasing cash from issuing authorities or the Mint; storing
cash; transporting cash; undertaking authentication processes; facilitating
the return of cash to issuing authorities or the Mint.

1.206E.2

For these purposes—

“ authorised bank ” has the meaning given by section 210; “ banknote ” has the
meaning given by section 208; “ cash ” means— banknotes issued by the Bank of
England, or an authorised bank in its capacity as an issuer of banknotes in
Scotland or Northern Ireland, or coins made by the Mint, within the meaning of
the Coinage Act 1971 (see section 11 of that Act); “ issue ”, in relation to
banknotes, has the meaning given by section 209; “ issuing authority ” means—
the Bank of England, or an authorised bank in its capacity as an issuer of
banknotes in Scotland or Northern Ireland; “ retail cash distribution ” means
arrangements for the provision of cash to end users of cash.

########### Interpretation: other terms

1.206F

1.206F.1

In this Part—

“ FCA ” means the Financial Conduct Authority; “ FCA-regulated person ” means—
a person who has Part 4A permission, an authorised payment institution or
small payment institution, within the meaning of the Payment Services
Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/752 ), or an authorised electronic money
institution or small electronic money institution, within the meaning of the
Electronic Money Regulations 2011 ( S.I. 2011/99 ); “ Part 4A permission ” has
the meaning given by section 55A of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000; “ the Payment Systems Regulator ” means the Payment Systems Regulator
established under section 40 of the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act
2013; “ PRA ” means the Prudential Regulation Authority; “ PRA-regulated
activity ” has the meaning given by section 22A of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000; “ the UK financial system ” has the meaning given by section
1I of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.

1.206F.2

For the purposes of this Part, a company (within the meaning of the Companies
Act 2006) is wholly owned by the Crown if, and only if, every member of the
company is—

1.206F.2.a

a Minister of the Crown, government department or company wholly owned by the
Crown, or

1.206F.2.b

a person acting on behalf of a Minister of the Crown, government department or
company wholly owned by the Crown.

########## Recognised persons

########### Wholesale cash oversight orders

1.206G

1.206G.1

The Treasury may by order (a “wholesale cash oversight order”) specify a
person as a recognised person for the purposes of this Part.

1.206G.2

A person may be specified only if the person—

1.206G.2.a

performs a relevant function in relation to a wholesale cash distribution
activity, and

1.206G.2.b

is recognised as having market significance (see section  206H ).

1.206G.3

The following are relevant functions in relation to a wholesale cash
distribution activity—

1.206G.3.a

undertaking the activity;

1.206G.3.b

managing the activity;

1.206G.3.c

providing a service in relation to the activity;

1.206G.3.d

providing financial assistance in relation to the activity.

1.206G.4

A wholesale cash oversight order must specify in as much detail as is
reasonably practicable—

1.206G.4.a

each wholesale cash distribution activity in relation to which the specified
person performs a relevant function, and

1.206G.4.b

each relevant function the person performs.

1.206G.5

The Treasury may not make a wholesale cash oversight order in respect of an
issuing authority or the Mint.

########### “Market significance” and “systemic significance”

1.206H

1.206H.1

A wholesale cash oversight order must specify whether the person in respect of
whom the order is made is recognised—

1.206H.a

as having market significance only, or

1.206H.b

as also having systemic significance.

1.206H.2

The Treasury may recognise a person as having market significance only if
satisfied that any significant deficiency in, or disruption to, the
performance of the person’s relevant functions in relation to wholesale cash
distribution activities would be likely to undermine the effectiveness,
resilience, or sustainability of wholesale cash distribution—

1.206H.2.a

throughout the United Kingdom, or

1.206H.2.b

throughout any part of the United Kingdom.

1.206H.3

The Treasury may recognise a person as having systemic significance only if
satisfied that any significant deficiency in, or disruption to, the
performance of the person’s relevant functions in relation to wholesale cash
distribution activities would be likely (in addition to the consequences
mentioned in subsection  (2) )—

1.206H.3.a

to threaten the stability of, or confidence in, the UK financial system, or

1.206H.3.b

to have serious consequences for business or other interests throughout the
United Kingdom or any part of the United Kingdom.

1.206H.4

Where a person is part of a group, the Treasury may have regard to functions
performed by other members of the group when determining matters mentioned in
subsection  (2)  or  (3) .

1.206H.5

In subsection  (4) , “ group ” has the meaning given by section 421 of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.

1.206H.6

The Treasury must not recognise a company wholly owned by the Crown as having
systemic significance.

########### Procedure

1.206I

1.206I.1

Before making a wholesale cash oversight order in respect of a person the
Treasury must—

1.206I.1.a

consult the Bank of England,

1.206I.1.b

notify the person, and

1.206I.1.c

consider any representations made.

1.206I.2

In addition, the Treasury must—

1.206I.2.a

consult the FCA before making a wholesale cash oversight order in respect of a
person who is, or has applied to be, an FCA-regulated person;

1.206I.2.b

consult the PRA before making a wholesale cash oversight order in respect of a
person who has, or has applied for, Part 4A permission for the carrying on of
a PRA-regulated activity;

1.206I.2.c

consult the Payment Systems Regulator before making a wholesale cash oversight
order in respect of a person who is a participant in a regulated payment
system.

1.206I.3

In subsection  (2)(c) , “ participant ” and “ regulated payment system ” have
the same meanings as in Part 5 of the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act
2013 (see section 110 of that Act).

1.206I.4

In considering whether to make the order, the Treasury may rely on information
provided by—

1.206I.4.a

the Bank of England;

1.206I.4.b

the FCA;

1.206I.4.c

the PRA;

1.206I.4.d

the Payment Systems Regulator.

########### Amendment or revocation of a wholesale cash oversight order

1.206J

1.206J.1

The Treasury may amend or revoke a wholesale cash oversight order.

1.206J.2

The Treasury must revoke a wholesale cash oversight order if no longer
satisfied that the person specified in the order—

1.206J.2.a

performs a relevant function in relation to a wholesale cash distribution
activity, and

1.206J.2.b

has market significance.

1.206J.3

If a person is specified in a wholesale cash oversight order as having
systemic significance, the Treasury must amend the order (so that the person
is specified as having market significance only) if—

1.206J.3.a

satisfied that the person continues to have market significance, but

1.206J.3.b

no longer satisfied that the person has systemic significance.

1.206J.4

Subject to subsections  (2)  and  (3) , the Treasury must consider any request
by a person specified in a wholesale cash oversight order for the amendment or
revocation of the order.

1.206J.5

Section  206I  (procedure) applies to the amendment or revocation of a
wholesale cash oversight order as it applies to the making of the order.

########## Regulation

########### Principles

1.206K

1.206K.1

The Bank of England may publish principles to which recognised persons must
have regard in performing relevant functions in relation to wholesale cash
distribution activities.

1.206K.2

Different principles may be published in relation to—

1.206K.2.a

different wholesale cash distribution activities;

1.206K.2.b

different relevant functions;

1.206K.2.c

persons recognised as having market significance only and persons recognised
as also having systemic significance.

1.206K.3

Before publishing such principles, the Bank must—

1.206K.3.a

consult such persons as appear to the Bank to be representative of persons
likely to be affected by the principles, and

1.206K.3.b

obtain the approval of the Treasury.

########### Codes of practice

1.206L

1.206L.1

The Bank of England may publish codes of practice about the performance by
recognised persons of relevant functions in relation to wholesale cash
distribution activities.

1.206L.2

Different codes of practice may be published in relation to—

1.206L.2.a

different wholesale cash distribution activities;

1.206L.2.b

different relevant functions;

1.206L.2.c

persons recognised as having market significance only and persons recognised
as also having systemic significance.

1.206L.3

Before publishing a code of practice, the Bank of England must consult such
persons as appear to the Bank to be representative of persons likely to be
affected by the code.

########### Directions

1.206M

1.206M.1

The Bank of England may give directions in writing to a recognised person.

1.206M.2

A direction may—

1.206M.2.a

require or prohibit the taking of specified action in relation to the
performance of a specified relevant function in relation to a specified
wholesale cash distribution activity;

1.206M.2.b

set standards to be met in the performance of a specified relevant function in
relation to a specified wholesale cash distribution activity.

1.206M.3

Subsection  (4)  applies if a direction is given to a recognised person for
the purpose of resolving or reducing a threat to the stability of the UK
financial system.

1.206M.4

The recognised person (including the recognised person’s officers and staff)
has immunity from liability in damages in respect of action or inaction in
accordance with the direction.

1.206M.5

A direction given for the purpose mentioned in subsection  (3)  must—

1.206M.5.a

include a statement that it is given for that purpose, and

1.206M.5.b

inform the recognised person of the effect of subsection  (4) .

1.206M.6

The Treasury may by regulations confer immunity on any person from liability
in damages in respect of action or inaction in accordance with a direction
under this section (including a direction given for the purpose mentioned in
subsection  (3) ).

1.206M.7

Regulations under subsection  (6) —

1.206M.7.a

are to be made by statutory instrument, and

1.206M.7.b

are subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

1.206M.8

An immunity conferred by or under this section does not extend to action or
inaction—

1.206M.8.a

in bad faith, or

1.206M.8.b

in contravention of section 6(1) of the Human Rights Act 1998.

1.206M.9

In this section, “ specified ” means specified in the direction.

########### Role of the FCA, PRA and Payment Systems Regulator

1.206N

1.206N.1

In exercising powers under this Part, the Bank of England must have regard to
any action that the FCA, PRA or Payment Systems Regulator has taken or could
take.

1.206N.2

The Bank of England must—

1.206N.2.a

consult the FCA before taking action under this Part in respect of a person
who is, or has applied to be, an FCA-regulated person;

1.206N.2.b

consult the PRA before taking action under this Part in respect of a person
who has, or has applied for, Part 4A permission for the carrying on of a PRA-
regulated activity;

1.206N.2.c

consult the Payment Systems Regulator before taking action under this Part in
respect of a participant in a regulated payment system.

1.206N.3

In subsection  (2)(c) , “ participant ” and “ regulated payment system ” have
the same meanings as in Part 5 of the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act
2013 (see section 110 of that Act).

1.206N.4

If the FCA, PRA or Payment Systems Regulator gives the Bank of England notice
that it is considering taking action in respect of a person mentioned in
subsection  (2) , the Bank may not take action under this Part in respect of
the person unless—

1.206N.4.a

the FCA, PRA or Payment Systems Regulator (as the case may be) consents, or

1.206N.4.b

the notice is withdrawn.

########## Enforcement

########### Inspection

1.206O

1.206O.1

The Bank of England may appoint one or more persons to inspect the performance
by a recognised person of a relevant function in relation to a wholesale cash
distribution activity.

1.206O.2

A recognised person who performs a relevant function in relation to a
wholesale cash distribution activity must—

1.206O.2.a

grant an inspector access, on request and at any reasonable time, to premises
on or from which any part of the function is performed, and

1.206O.2.b

otherwise co-operate with an inspector.

########### Inspection: warrant

1.206P

1.206P.1

A justice of the peace may, on the application of an inspector appointed under
section  206O , issue a warrant entitling an inspector or a constable to enter
premises if—

1.206P.1.a

there is performed on the premises any part of a relevant function in relation
to a wholesale cash distribution activity, and

1.206P.1.b

any of the following conditions is satisfied.

1.206P.2

Condition 1 is that—

1.206P.2.a

a requirement under section  206Z3  (information) in relation to the relevant
function has not been complied with, and

1.206P.2.b

there is reason to believe that information relevant to the requirement is on
the premises.

1.206P.3

Condition 2 is that there is reason to suspect that if a requirement under
section  206Z3  were imposed in relation to the relevant function in respect
of information on the premises—

1.206P.3.a

the requirement would not be complied with, and

1.206P.3.b

the information would be destroyed or otherwise tampered with.

1.206P.4

Condition 3 is that an inspector—

1.206P.4.a

gave reasonable notice of a wish to enter the premises, and

1.206P.4.b

was refused entry.

1.206P.5

Condition 4 is that a person occupying or managing the premises has failed to
co-operate with an inspector.

1.206P.6

A warrant—

1.206P.6.a

permits an inspector or a constable to enter the premises,

1.206P.6.b

permits an inspector or a constable to search the premises and copy or take
possession of information or documents, and

1.206P.6.c

permits a constable to use reasonable force.

1.206P.7

Sections 15(5) to (8) and 16 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984
(warrants: procedure) apply to warrants under this section.

1.206P.8

In the application of this section to Scotland—

1.206P.8.a

the reference to a justice of the peace includes a reference to a sheriff, and

1.206P.8.b

ignore subsection  (7) .

1.206P.9

In the application of this section to Northern Ireland—

1.206P.9.a

the reference to a justice of the peace is a reference to a lay magistrate,
and

1.206P.9.b

the reference to sections 15(5) to (8) and 16 of the Police and Criminal
Evidence Act 1984 is a reference to the equivalent provisions of the Police
and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989.

########### Independent report

1.206Q

1.206Q.1

The Bank of England may require a recognised person who performs a relevant
function in relation to a wholesale cash distribution activity to appoint an
expert to report on the performance of the function.

1.206Q.2

The Bank may impose a requirement only if it thinks—

1.206Q.2.a

the person is not having sufficient regard to principles published by the Bank
under section  206K ,

1.206Q.2.b

the person is failing to comply with a code of practice under section  206L ,
or

1.206Q.2.c

the report is likely for any other reason to assist the Bank in the
performance of its functions under this Part.

1.206Q.3

The Bank may impose requirements about—

1.206Q.3.a

the nature of the expert to be appointed;

1.206Q.3.b

the content of the report;

1.206Q.3.c

treatment of the report (including disclosure and publication);

1.206Q.3.d

timing.

########### Compliance failure

1.206R

In this Part “ compliance failure ” means a failure by a recognised person to—

1.206R.a

comply with a code of practice under section  206L ,

1.206R.b

comply with a direction under section  206M , or

1.206R.c

ensure compliance with a requirement under section  206Q  (independent
reports).

########### Publication

1.206S

The Bank of England may publish details of—

1.206S.a

a compliance failure by a recognised person;

1.206S.b

a sanction imposed under sections  206T  to  206V .

########### Penalty

1.206T

1.206T.1

The Bank of England may require a recognised person to pay a penalty in
respect of a compliance failure.

1.206T.2

A penalty—

1.206T.2.a

must be paid to the Bank, and

1.206T.2.b

may be enforced by the Bank as a civil debt owed to the Bank.

1.206T.3

The Bank must prepare a statement of the principles which it will apply in
determining—

1.206T.3.a

whether to impose a penalty, and

1.206T.3.b

the amount of a penalty.

1.206T.4

The Bank must—

1.206T.4.a

publish the statement on its website,

1.206T.4.b

send a copy to the Treasury,

1.206T.4.c

review the statement from time to time and revise it if necessary (and
paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  apply to a revision), and

1.206T.4.d

in applying the statement to a compliance failure, apply the version in force
when the failure occurred.

########### Closure

1.206U

1.206U.1

This section applies if the Bank of England thinks that a compliance failure
by a person recognised for the purposes of this Part as having systemic
significance—

1.206U.1.a

threatens the stability of, or confidence in, the UK financial system, or

1.206U.1.b

has serious consequences for business or other interests throughout the United
Kingdom.

1.206U.2

The Bank may give the person an order (a “closure order”) to stop performing
specified relevant functions in relation to specified wholesale cash
distribution activities—

1.206U.2.a

for a specified period,

1.206U.2.b

until further notice, or

1.206U.2.c

permanently.

1.206U.3

Before giving a closure order to a recognised person, the Bank must have
regard to the public interest in the continued performance by the person of
relevant functions (whether or not specified) in relation to wholesale cash
distribution activities (whether or not specified).

1.206U.4

A recognised person who fails to comply with a closure order commits an
offence.

1.206U.5

A person who commits an offence under this section is liable—

1.206U.5.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to a fine;

1.206U.5.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to a fine not exceeding the statutory
maximum;

1.206U.5.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding the
statutory maximum;

1.206U.5.d

on conviction on indictment, to a fine.

1.206U.6

In this section, “ specified ” means specified in the closure order.

########### Management disqualification

1.206V

1.206V.1

The Bank of England may by order prohibit a specified person from holding an
office or position involving responsibility for taking decisions about the
management of a recognised person—

1.206V.1.a

for a specified period,

1.206V.1.b

until further notice, or

1.206V.1.c

permanently.

1.206V.2

A person who breaches a prohibition under subsection  (1)  commits an offence.

1.206V.3

A person who commits an offence under this section is liable—

1.206V.3.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to a fine;

1.206V.3.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to a fine not exceeding the statutory
maximum;

1.206V.3.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding the
statutory maximum;

1.206V.3.d

on conviction on indictment, to a fine.

1.206V.4

In this section, “ specified ” means specified in the order.

########### Warning

1.206W

1.206W.1

Before imposing a sanction on a person the Bank of England must—

1.206W.1.a

give the person a notice (“a warning notice”),

1.206W.1.b

give the person at least 21 days from the date of the notice to make
representations,

1.206W.1.c

consider any representations made, and

1.206W.1.d

as soon as reasonably practicable, give the person a notice stating whether
the Bank intends to impose the sanction.

1.206W.2

In subsection  (1) , “ imposing a sanction ” means—

1.206W.2.a

publishing details under section  206S ;

1.206W.2.b

requiring the payment of a penalty under section  206T ;

1.206W.2.c

giving a closure order under section  206U ;

1.206W.2.d

making an order under section  206V .

1.206W.3

Despite subsection  (1) , if satisfied that it is necessary, the Bank may
without notice—

1.206W.3.a

give a closure order under section  206U , or

1.206W.3.b

make an order under section  206V .

########### Appeal

1.206X

1.206X.1

Where the Bank of England notifies a person under section  206W (1)  that it
intends to impose a sanction, the person may appeal to the Upper Tribunal.

1.206X.2

Where the Bank imposes a sanction on a person without notice in reliance on
section  206W (3) , the person may appeal to the Upper Tribunal.

1.206X.3

The Bank of England may not impose a sanction while an appeal under this
section could be brought or is pending.

########### Injunctions

1.206Y

1.206Y.1

If, on the application of the Bank of England, the court is satisfied—

1.206Y.1.a

that there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a compliance failure,
or

1.206Y.1.b

that there has been a compliance failure and there is a reasonable likelihood
that it will continue or be repeated,

the court may make an order restraining the conduct constituting the failure.

1.206Y.2

If, on the application of the Bank of England, the court is satisfied—

1.206Y.2.a

that there has been a compliance failure by a recognised person, and

1.206Y.2.b

that there are steps which could be taken for remedying the failure,

the court may make an order requiring the recognised person, and any other
person who appears to have been knowingly concerned in the failure, to take
such steps as the court may direct to remedy it.

1.206Y.3

If, on the application of the Bank of England, the court is satisfied—

1.206Y.3.a

that there may have been a compliance failure by a recognised person, or

1.206Y.3.b

that any other person may have been knowingly concerned in a compliance
failure,

the court may make an order restraining the person from dealing with any
assets which it is satisfied the person is reasonably likely to deal with.

1.206Y.4

The jurisdiction conferred by this section is exercisable—

1.206Y.4.a

in England and Wales and Northern Ireland, by the High Court;

1.206Y.4.b

in Scotland, by the Court of Session.

1.206Y.5

In this section—

1.206Y.5.a

references to an order restraining anything are, in Scotland, to be read as
references to an interdict prohibiting that thing;

1.206Y.5.b

references to an order requiring steps to be taken are, in Scotland, to be
read as references to an order for specific performance under section 45 of
the Court of Session Act 1988;

1.206Y.5.c

references to remedying a failure include mitigating its effect;

1.206Y.5.d

references to dealing with assets include disposing of them.

########## Miscellaneous

########### Fees

1.206Z

1.206Z.1

The Bank of England may require a recognised person to pay fees.

1.206Z.2

A requirement under subsection  (1)  must relate to a scale of fees approved
by the Treasury by regulations.

1.206Z.3

Regulations under subsection  (2) —

1.206Z.3.a

are to be made by statutory instrument, and

1.206Z.3.b

are subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

1.206Z.4

A requirement under subsection  (1)  may be enforced by the Bank as a civil
debt owed to the Bank.

########### Records

1.206Z1

The Bank of England must maintain satisfactory arrangements for—

1.206Z1.a

recording decisions made in the exercise of functions under this Part, and

1.206Z1.b

the safe-keeping of those records which it considers ought to be preserved.

########### Annual report

1.206Z2

1.206Z2.1

At least once a year the Bank of England must make a report to the Treasury
on—

1.206Z2.1.a

the discharge of its functions under this Part, and

1.206Z2.1.b

such other matters as the Treasury may from time to time direct.

1.206Z2.2

A report on the discharge of the Bank’s functions under this Part must, in
particular, include the Bank’s opinion as to—

1.206Z2.2.a

the extent to which risks to the effectiveness, resilience and sustainability
of wholesale cash distribution throughout the United Kingdom, or throughout
any part of the United Kingdom, have been managed, and

1.206Z2.2.b

the extent to which, in relation to the exercise of functions in relation to
persons recognised as having systemic significance, risks to the stability of
the UK financial system have been managed.

1.206Z2.3

This section does not require the inclusion in a report of any information the
publication of which would, in the opinion of the Bank, be against the public
interest.

1.206Z2.4

The Treasury must lay before Parliament a copy of each report received under
this section.

########### Requirement to provide information

1.206Z3

1.206Z3.1

The Bank of England may by notice in writing require a person to provide
information—

1.206Z3.1.a

which the Bank thinks will help the Treasury in determining whether to make a
wholesale cash oversight order, or

1.206Z3.1.b

which the Bank otherwise requires in connection with its functions under this
Part.

1.206Z3.2

The Bank of England may by notice in writing require a person who performs a
relevant function in relation to wholesale cash distribution activity to
provide information which the Bank requires in connection with the exercise of
its functions (whether under this Part or otherwise) in pursuance of—

1.206Z3.2.a

the purpose mentioned in section  206C (2) , or

1.206Z3.2.b

the Bank’s Financial Stability Objective (see section 2A of the Bank of
England Act 1998).

1.206Z3.3

In particular, a notice under subsection  (1)  or  (2)  may require the person
to notify the Bank if events of a specified kind occur.

1.206Z3.4

A notice under subsection  (1)  or  (2)  may require information to be
provided—

1.206Z3.4.a

in a specified form or manner;

1.206Z3.4.b

at, or by, a specified time;

1.206Z3.4.c

in respect of a specified period.

1.206Z3.5

It is an offence—

1.206Z3.5.a

to fail without reasonable excuse to comply with a requirement under this
section;

1.206Z3.5.b

knowingly or recklessly to give false information in pursuance of this
section.

1.206Z3.6

A person who commits an offence under this section is liable—

1.206Z3.6.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to a fine;

1.206Z3.6.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to a fine not exceeding the statutory
maximum;

1.206Z3.6.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding the
statutory maximum;

1.206Z3.6.d

on conviction on indictment, to a fine.

1.206Z3.7

In this section, “ specified ” means specified in the notice.

########### Disclosure of information

1.206Z4

1.206Z4.1

The Bank of England may disclose information obtained by virtue of section
206Z3  to—

1.206Z4.1.a

the Treasury;

1.206Z4.1.b

the FCA;

1.206Z4.1.c

the PRA;

1.206Z4.1.d

the Mint.

1.206Z4.2

Subsection  (1) —

1.206Z4.2.a

overrides a contractual or other requirement to keep information in
confidence, and

1.206Z4.2.b

is without prejudice to any other power to disclose information.

1.206Z4.3

The Treasury may by regulations—

1.206Z4.3.a

permit the disclosure by the Bank of information obtained by virtue of section
206Z3  to specified persons;

1.206Z4.3.b

permit the publication of specified information and make provision about the
manner and extent of publication.

1.206Z4.4

In subsection  (3) , “ specified ” means specified in the regulations.

1.206Z4.5

Regulations under subsection  (3) —

1.206Z4.5.a

are to be made by statutory instrument, and

1.206Z4.5.b

are subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

########### Saving for informal oversight

1.206Z5

Nothing in this Part prevents the Bank of England—

1.206Z5.1

from having dealings with persons who are not recognised persons for the
purposes of this Part;

1.206Z5.1.a

from having dealings with recognised persons other than through the provisions
of this Part.

########## Companies wholly owned by the Crown

########### Power to disapply regulation and enforcement provisions

1.206Z6

1.206Z6.1

The Treasury may by regulations provide for any provision of sections  206K
to  206Z4  not to apply (insofar as it would otherwise do so), or to apply
with modifications, in relation to recognised persons that are companies
wholly owned by the Crown.

1.206Z6.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may modify legislation (including any
provision of, or made under, this Act).

1.206Z6.3

In subsection  (2) —

“ legislation ” means primary legislation, subordinate legislation (within the
meaning of the Interpretation Act 1978) and retained direct EU legislation,
but does not include rules or other instruments made by any regulator; “
modify ” includes amend, repeal or revoke.

1.206Z6.4

Before making regulations under this section, the Treasury must consult the
Bank of England.

1.206Z6.5

Regulations under subsection  (1) —

1.206Z6.5.a

are to be made by statutory instrument, and

1.206Z6.5.b

may not be made unless a draft has been laid before, and approved by a
resolution of, each House of Parliament.

##### Amendments to Part 6 of the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013

2

Part 6 of the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013 (special
administration for operators of certain infrastructure systems) is amended as
follows.

3

In section 111 (financial market infrastructure administration), in the
heading, after “market” insert  “and cash” .

4

4.1

Section 112 (interpretation: infrastructure companies) is amended as follows.

4.2

In subsection (2), omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (b) and insert—

4.2.ba

a person recognised for the purposes of Part 5A of the Banking Act 2009
(wholesale cash distribution) as having systemic significance, or

.

4.3

In subsection (4)—

4.3.a

in paragraph (a), for “(2)(a) or (b)” substitute  “(2)(a), (b) or (ba)” ;

4.3.b

in paragraph (b), after “question” insert  “or, in the case of a person
falling within subsection (2)(ba), a relevant function” .

4.4

In subsection (6), in paragraph (b), for “(2)(a) or (b)” substitute  “(2)(a),
(b) or (ba)” .

4.5

After subsection (6) insert—

4.5.7

In subsection (4)(b), “ relevant function ” means a function performed by the
person in relation to wholesale cash distribution.

5

In section 113 (interpretation: other expressions), in subsection (1)—

5.a

in the definition of “the relevant system”, after paragraph (b) insert—

in relation to an infrastructure company falling within subsection (2)(ba) of
that section, any system used by the company to facilitate or control
wholesale cash distribution,

;

5.b

at the end insert—

“wholesale cash distribution” and “wholesale cash distribution activities”
have the meanings given by section  206E  of the Banking Act 2009.

6

In section 115 (objective of FMI administration), after subsection (1A)
insert—

6.1B

Where an FMI administrator is appointed in relation to a company that is a
person recognised for the purposes of Part 5A of the Banking Act 2009, the
objective of the FMI administration is—

6.1B.a

to ensure that the functions performed by the person in relation to wholesale
cash distribution are and continue to be performed efficiently and
effectively, and

6.1B.b

to ensure by one or both of the specified means that it becomes unnecessary
for the FMI administration order to remain in force for that purpose or those
purposes.

7

In section 119 (continuity of supply), in subsection (6), in the definition of
“supply”, after paragraph (a) insert—

7.aa

in the case of an infrastructure company that is a person recognised for the
purposes of Part 5A of the Banking Act 2009, goods or services used by the
person in connection with wholesale cash distribution activities;

.

8

In section 120 (power to direct FMI administrator), in subsection (8), at the
end insert  “or section  206M  of that Act (directions) in relation to a
person recognised for the purposes of Part 5A of that Act” .

9

In section 127 (interpretation of Part), in subsection (1), at the end insert—

“wholesale cash distribution” and “wholesale cash distribution activities”
have the meanings given by section 113.

##### Consequential amendments

###### Banking Act 2009

10

The Banking Act 2009 is amended as follows.

11

In section 259 (statutory instruments), in subsection (3), in the Table, after
the entry for section 206A (services forming part of recognised payment
systems) insert—

PART 5A - Wholesale cash distribution 206M Bank of England directions:
immunity Negative resolution 206Z Fees regulations Negative resolution 206Z4
Information Negative resolution 206Z6 Power to disapply regulation and
enforcement provisions Draft affirmative resolution

12

In section 261 (index of defined terms)—

12.a

in the entry for “FCA”, in the second column, for “& 183” substitute  “, 183 &
206F ” ;

12.b

in the entry for “Payment Systems Regulator”, in the second column, after
“183” insert  “&  206F ” ;

12.c

in the entry for “PRA”, in the second column, for “& 183” substitute  “, 183 &
206F ” .

###### Financial Services Act 2012

13

The Financial Services Act 2012 is amended as follows.

14

14.1

Section 85 (relevant functions in relation to complaints scheme) is amended as
follows.

14.2

In subsection (3)(a), after “(payment systems)” insert  “or Part 5A of that
Act (wholesale cash distribution)” .

14.3

In subsection (7)—

14.3.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for “Part 5” substitute  “Parts 5 and 5A” ;

14.3.b

in paragraph (a), for “and 189” substitute  “,189,  206K  and  206L ” ;

14.3.c

in paragraph (b), at the end insert  “and  206T (3) ” .

15

15.1

Section 110 (payment to Treasury of penalties received by Bank of England) is
amended as follows.

15.2

In subsection (2), in paragraph (b), for “section 198” substitute  “sections
198 and  206T ” .

15.3

In subsection (5)—

15.3.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (c);

15.3.b

at the end of paragraph (d) insert

, and

15.3.b.e

sections  206S  to  206V  and  206Y  of that Act (wholesale cash
distribution).

###### Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013

16

In section 98 of the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013 (duty of
regulators to ensure co-ordinated exercise of functions), in subsection
(5)(b), at the end insert  “or Part 5A of that Act (wholesale cash
distribution)” .

Performance of functions relating to financial market infrastructure

Section 56

##### New Chapter 2A of Part 18 of FSMA 2000

1

In Part 18 of FSMA 2000 (recognised investment exchanges, clearing houses and
CSDs), before Chapter 3B insert—

######### Performance of functions of recognised bodies

########## Relevant recognised bodies

########### Recognised bodies to which this Chapter applies

1.309A

1.309A.1

The Treasury may by regulations specify as a “ relevant recognised body ” for
the purposes of this Chapter a type of recognised body mentioned in subsection
(2) .

1.309A.2

The types of recognised bodies are—

1.309A.2.a

recognised investment exchanges;

1.309A.2.b

recognised central counterparties;

1.309A.2.c

recognised CSDs.

1.309A.3

Before making regulations under subsection  (1) , the Treasury—

1.309A.3.a

must consult the FCA if it proposes to specify recognised investment exchanges
(or recognised investment exchanges of a specified description);

1.309A.3.b

must consult the Bank of England if it proposes to specify recognised central
counterparties or recognised CSDs (or recognised central counterparties or
recognised CSDs of a specified description);

1.309A.3.c

in any case, must consult such persons as appear to it to be representative of
interests likely to be affected by the application of this Chapter to the
types, or descriptions, of bodies it proposes to specify.

1.309A.4

In this Chapter, references to “the appropriate regulator” are to be read in
accordance with section 285A (accordingly, the appropriate regulator in
relation to a recognised investment exchange is the FCA, and in any other case
is the Bank of England).

1.309A.5

Nothing in this Chapter applies to overseas investment exchanges.

########## Prohibition

########### Part 18 prohibition orders

1.309B

1.309B.1

This section applies if it appears to the appropriate regulator that an
individual is not a fit and proper person to perform functions in relation to
an activity carried on by a relevant recognised body.

1.309B.2

The appropriate regulator may make an order (a “Part 18 prohibition order”)
prohibiting the individual from performing a specified function, any function
falling within a specified description or any function.

1.309B.3

A Part 18 prohibition order may relate to—

1.309B.3.a

a specified activity, any activity falling within a specified description or
all activities (but see subsection  (5) );

1.309B.3.b

all persons falling within subsection  (4) , or a particular paragraph of that
subsection, or all persons within a specified class of person falling within a
particular paragraph of that subsection.

1.309B.4

A person falls within this subsection if the person is—

1.309B.4.a

a relevant recognised body (whether or not the appropriate regulator making
the order is the appropriate regulator in relation to relevant recognised
bodies of that type),

1.309B.4.b

an authorised person,

1.309B.4.c

an exempt person (other than a relevant recognised body), or

1.309B.4.d

a person to whom, as a result of Part 20, the general prohibition does not
apply in relation to a regulated activity.

1.309B.5

If a Part 18 prohibition order makes provision in relation to a person or
persons falling within subsection  (4) (b) ,  (c)  or  (d) , subsection
(3)(a)  applies in relation to such provision as if references to an activity
or activities were to a regulated activity or regulated activities.

1.309B.6

In this section, “ specified ” means specified in the Part 18 prohibition
order.

########### Procedure for making Part 18 prohibition orders

1.309C

1.309C.1

If the appropriate regulator proposes to make a Part 18 prohibition order it
must—

1.309C.1.a

comply with such consultation requirements as may be prescribed, and

1.309C.1.b

give the individual to whom the order would apply a warning notice.

1.309C.2

A warning notice under subsection  (1)(b)  must set out the terms of the
prohibition.

1.309C.3

If the appropriate regulator decides to make a Part 18 prohibition order it
must give the individual to whom the order applies a decision notice.

1.309C.4

The decision notice must—

1.309C.4.a

name the individual to whom the Part 18 prohibition order applies, and

1.309C.4.b

set out the terms of the order.

1.309C.5

If the appropriate regulator decides to make a Part 18 prohibition order, the
individual to whom the order applies may refer the matter to the Tribunal.

########### Varying and withdrawing Part 18 prohibition orders

1.309D

1.309D.1

This section applies where the appropriate regulator has made a Part 18
prohibition order in relation to an individual.

1.309D.2

The appropriate regulator may vary or revoke the Part 18 prohibition order on
the application of the individual.

1.309D.3

Before varying or revoking a Part 18 prohibition order, the appropriate
regulator must comply with such consultation requirements as may be
prescribed.

1.309D.4

On an application for the variation or revocation of a Part 18 prohibition
order—

1.309D.4.a

if the appropriate regulator decides to grant the application, it must give
the applicant written notice of its decision;

1.309D.4.b

if the appropriate regulator proposes to refuse the application, it must give
the applicant a warning notice;

1.309D.4.c

if the appropriate regulator decides to refuse the application, it must give
the applicant a decision notice.

1.309D.5

If the appropriate regulator gives the applicant a decision notice under
subsection  (4)(c) , the applicant may refer the matter to the Tribunal.

########### Offence of breaching prohibition

1.309E

1.309E.1

An individual who performs a function, or agrees to perform a function, in
breach of a Part 18 prohibition order is guilty of an offence.

1.309E.2

An individual who commits an offence under this section is liable—

1.309E.2.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to a fine;

1.309E.2.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale;

1.309E.2.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on
the standard scale.

1.309E.3

In proceedings for an offence under this section, it is a defence for the
individual to show that the individual took all reasonable precautions and
exercised all due diligence to avoid committing the offence.

########### Duty in relation to prohibited individuals

1.309F

1.309F.1

A person (“ P ”) falling within section  309B (4)  must take reasonable care
to ensure that no function in relation to the carrying on of P’s activities is
performed by an individual who is prohibited from performing that function by
a Part 18 prohibition order.

1.309F.2

A contravention of subsection  (1)  is actionable at the suit of a private
person who suffers loss as a result of the contravention, subject to the
defences and other incidents applying to actions for breach of statutory duty.

1.309F.3

In prescribed cases, a contravention of subsection  (1)  which would be
actionable at the suit of a private person is actionable at the suit of a
person who is not a private person, subject to the defences and other
incidents applying to actions for breach of statutory duty.

1.309F.4

In this section “private person” has such meaning as may be prescribed.

########## Approval

########### Requirement for approval

1.309G

1.309G.1

A relevant recognised body must take reasonable care to ensure that a person
does not perform a designated senior management function in relation to the
carrying on of an activity by the body, unless the person is acting in
accordance with an approval given by the appropriate regulator under this
section.

1.309G.2

Subsection  (1)  applies only in relation to a function performed under—

1.309G.2.a

an arrangement entered into by the relevant recognised body, or

1.309G.2.b

an arrangement entered into by a contractor of the relevant recognised body.

1.309G.3

“ Designated senior management function ” means a function of a description
specified in rules made by the appropriate regulator.

1.309G.4

The appropriate regulator may specify a description of function under
subsection  (3)  only if it is satisfied that the function is a senior
management function.

1.309G.5

A function is a “ senior management function ” in relation to the carrying on
of a relevant recognised body’s activities if—

1.309G.5.a

the function will require the person performing it to be responsible for
managing one or more aspects of the body’s affairs, and

1.309G.5.b

those aspects involve, or might involve, a risk of serious consequences—

1.309G.5.b.i

for the body, or

1.309G.5.b.ii

for business or other interests in the United Kingdom.

1.309G.6

In subsection  (5)(a) , the reference to managing one or more aspects of a
relevant recognised body’s affairs includes a reference to taking decisions,
or participating in the taking of decisions, about how one or more aspects of
those affairs should be carried on.

1.309G.7

In subsection  (2) , “arrangement”—

1.309G.7.a

means any kind of arrangement for the performance of a function of a relevant
recognised body which is entered into by the body, or by a contractor of the
body, and another person, and

1.309G.7.b

includes, in particular, an arrangement under which the other person is
appointed to an office, becomes a partner or is employed (whether under a
contract of service or otherwise).

########### Rules under section 

1.309H

1.309H.1

In relation to rules made by the Bank of England or the FCA under section
309G (3) , the power conferred by section 137T(c) to make transitional
provision includes, in particular, power—

1.309H.1.a

to provide for anything done under this Chapter, or under Part 5 (performance
of regulated activities), in relation to a senior management function of a
particular description to be treated as having been done in relation to a
senior management function of a different description;

1.309H.1.b

to provide for anything done under this Chapter, or under Part 5 (including
any application or order made, any requirement imposed and any approval or
notice given) to cease to have effect, to continue to have effect, or to
continue to have effect with modifications, or subject to time limits or
conditions;

1.309H.1.c

to provide for rules made by the regulator making the rules under section
309G (3)  to apply with modifications;

1.309H.1.d

to make saving provision.

1.309H.2

The Treasury may by regulations make whatever incidental, consequential,
transitional, supplemental or saving provision the Treasury consider
appropriate in connection with the making of rules under section  309G (3) .

1.309H.3

Regulations under subsection  (2)  may—

1.309H.3.a

confer functions on the Bank of England or the FCA (including the function of
making rules);

1.309H.3.b

modify legislation (including any provision of, or made under, this Act).

1.309H.4

In subsection  (3)(b) —

“ legislation ” means primary legislation, subordinate legislation (within the
meaning of the Interpretation Act 1978) and retained direct EU legislation,
but does not include rules or other instruments made by any regulator; “
modify ” includes amend, repeal or revoke.

########### Applications for approval

1.309I

1.309I.1

A relevant recognised body may apply for approval from the appropriate
regulator under section  309G  for a person to perform a designated senior
management function in relation to the carrying on of the body’s activities.

1.309I.2

The application must be made in such manner as the appropriate regulator may
direct.

1.309I.3

The application must contain—

1.309I.3.a

a statement setting out the aspects of the applicant’s affairs which it is
intended that the person will be responsible for managing in performing the
function, and

1.309I.3.b

such other information as the appropriate regulator may reasonably require.

1.309I.4

A statement provided under subsection  (3)(a)  is known as a “statement of
responsibilities”.

1.309I.5

At any time after the application is received, and before it is determined,
the appropriate regulator may require the applicant to provide it with such
further information as it reasonably considers necessary to enable it to
determine the application.

1.309I.6

The appropriate regulator may require the applicant to present information
provided under this section in such form, or to verify the information in such
a way, as the appropriate regulator may direct.

1.309I.7

Different directions may be given, and different requirements may be imposed,
in relation to different applications or categories of application.

1.309I.8

In subsection  (1) , “ relevant recognised body ” includes—

1.309I.8.a

if recognised investment exchanges are a type of recognised body to which this
Chapter applies, a person who has applied for recognition as such under
section 287;

1.309I.8.b

if recognised central counterparties are a type of recognised body to which
this Chapter applies, a person who has applied for recognition as such under
section 288;

1.309I.8.c

if recognised CSDs are a type of recognised body to which this Chapter
applies, a person who has applied for recognition as such under section 288A.

########### Vetting by relevant recognised bodies

1.309J

1.309J.1

Before making an application under section  309I  for approval for a person to
perform a designated senior management function, a relevant recognised body
must be satisfied that the person is a fit and proper person to perform the
function.

1.309J.2

In deciding that question, the relevant recognised body must have regard,
among other things, to whether the person, or any person who may perform a
function on the person’s behalf—

1.309J.2.a

has obtained a specified qualification;

1.309J.2.b

has undergone, or is undergoing, specified training;

1.309J.2.c

possesses a specified level of competence;

1.309J.2.d

has specified personal characteristics.

1.309J.3

In subsection  (2) , “ specified ” means specified in rules made by the
appropriate regulator.

1.309J.4

Before making rules for the purposes of this section, the appropriate
regulator must comply with such consultation requirements as may be
prescribed.

########### Determining applications: power to grant approval

1.309K

1.309K.1

The appropriate regulator may grant an application under section  309I  for
approval for a person to perform a designated senior management function only
if—

1.309K.1.a

it is satisfied that the person is a fit and proper person to perform the
function, or

1.309K.1.b

it is satisfied that the condition in paragraph  (a)  will be met if the
application is granted subject to one or more conditions (see subsection  (3)
).

1.309K.2

In determining the application, the appropriate regulator may have regard,
among other things, to the matters mentioned in section  309J (2)
(qualifications etc of person for whom approval sought).

1.309K.3

The appropriate regulator may, if it appears to it that it is desirable to do
so in order to advance a relevant objective—

1.309K.3.a

grant the application subject to any conditions that it considers appropriate;

1.309K.3.b

grant the application so as to give approval only for a limited period.

1.309K.4

For the purposes of subsection  (3) , “ relevant objective ” means—

1.309K.4.a

if the appropriate regulator is the FCA, any of its operational objectives;

1.309K.4.b

if the appropriate regulator is the Bank of England, the Financial Stability
Objective.

1.309K.5

Before granting approval under this section (whether or not subject to
conditions or for a limited period), the appropriate regulator must comply
with such consultation requirements as may be prescribed.

########### Determining applications: period for approval

1.309L

1.309L.1

The appropriate regulator must, before the end of the period for
consideration, determine whether—

1.309L.1.a

to grant an application under section  309I  for approval for a person to
perform a function, without imposing conditions or limiting the period for
which the approval has effect, or

1.309L.1.b

to give a warning notice under section  309M (2) .

1.309L.2

In subsection  (1) , “ the period for consideration ” means the period of 3
months beginning with the day on which the appropriate regulator receives the
application.

This is subject to subsections  (3)  and  (4) .

1.309L.3

Where the application under section  309I  is made by a person in reliance on
section  309I (8)  (applicants for recognition to be treated as relevant
recognised bodies), “ the period for consideration ” means whichever of the
following periods ends later—

1.309L.3.a

the period described in subsection  (2) , and

1.309L.3.b

the period within which the person’s application for recognition must be
determined—

1.309L.3.b.i

in the case of an application under section 287, in accordance with section
290(1B);

1.309L.3.b.ii

in the case of an application under section 288, in accordance with Article
17(7) of the EMIR regulation;

1.309L.3.b.iii

in the case of an application under section 288A, in accordance with section
290(4A).

1.309L.4

If the appropriate regulator imposes a requirement under section  309I (5) ,
the period described in subsection  (2)  stops running on the day on which the
requirement is imposed but starts running again—

1.309L.4.a

on the day on which the required information is received by the appropriate
regulator, or

1.309L.4.b

if the information is not provided on a single day, on the last of the days on
which it is received by the appropriate regulator.

1.309L.5

An applicant may withdraw an application under section  309I , by giving
written notice to the appropriate regulator, at any time before the
appropriate regulator determines the application, but only with the consent
of—

1.309L.5.a

the person in relation to whom the application is made, and

1.309L.5.b

the person by whom that person is to be retained to perform the function to
which the application relates, if not the applicant.

########### Determining applications: further procedure

1.309M

1.309M.1

If the appropriate regulator decides to grant an application under section
309I  without imposing conditions or limiting the period for which approval is
given, it must give written notice of its decision to each of the interested
parties.

1.309M.2

If the appropriate regulator proposes to refuse the application, or to grant
the application subject to conditions or for a limited period (or both), it
must give a warning notice to each of the interested parties.

1.309M.3

If the appropriate regulator decides to refuse the application, or to grant
the application subject to conditions or for a limited period (or both), it
must give a decision notice to each of the interested parties.

1.309M.4

If the appropriate regulator decides to refuse the application, or to grant
the application subject to conditions or for a limited period (or both), each
of the interested parties may refer the matter to the Tribunal.

1.309M.5

In this section, “ the interested parties ”, in relation to an application
under section  309I  for approval for a person to perform a function, are—

1.309M.5.a

the applicant,

1.309M.5.b

the person in relation to whom the application is made, and

1.309M.5.c

the person by whom that person is to be retained to perform the function to
which the application relates, if not the applicant.

########### Changes in responsibilities

1.309N

1.309N.1

This section applies where, on an application made by a relevant recognised
body under section  309I , the appropriate regulator has given approval for a
person to perform a designated senior management function (and has not
withdrawn the approval).

1.309N.2

Each time there is a notifiable change in the aspects of the relevant
recognised body’s affairs which the person is responsible for managing in
performing the function, the relevant recognised body must provide the
appropriate regulator with a revised statement of responsibilities (see
section  309I (4) ).

1.309N.3

Whether a change is “notifiable” is to be determined by the relevant
recognised body in accordance with rules made by the appropriate regulator.

1.309N.4

The appropriate regulator may require the relevant recognised body to present
information provided under this section in such form, or to verify the
information in such a way, as the appropriate regulator may direct.

########### Withdrawing approval

1.309O

1.309O.1

This section applies if an approval under section 309G has been given by the
appropriate regulator in relation to the performance by a person of a
designated senior management function.

1.309O.2

The appropriate regulator may withdraw the approval if it considers that the
person is not a fit and proper person to perform the function.

1.309O.3

In considering whether to withdraw an approval, the appropriate regulator may
take into account any matter which may be taken into account in considering an
application under section  309I .

1.309O.4

The relevant recognised body on whose application the approval was given must,
at specified intervals—

1.309O.4.a

consider whether there are grounds on which the appropriate regulator could
withdraw the approval under this section, and

1.309O.4.b

if it considers that there are such grounds, notify the appropriate regulator
of those grounds.

1.309O.5

For the purposes of subsection  (4) , a “specified interval” is an interval
specified in rules made by the appropriate regulator for the purposes of this
section.

########### Procedure for withdrawing approval

1.309P

1.309P.1

If the appropriate regulator proposes to withdraw an approval given under
section  309G , it must—

1.309P.1.a

comply with such consultation requirements as may be prescribed, and

1.309P.1.b

give each of the interested parties a warning notice.

1.309P.2

If the appropriate regulator decides to withdraw the approval, it must give
each of the interested parties a decision notice.

1.309P.3

If the appropriate regulator decides to withdraw the approval, each of the
interested parties may refer the matter to the Tribunal.

1.309P.4

In this section, “ the interested parties ”, in relation to an approval given
under section  309G , are—

1.309P.4.a

the relevant recognised body on whose application the approval was given,

1.309P.4.b

the person in relation to whom the approval was given, and

1.309P.4.c

the person by whom that person’s services are retained, if not the relevant
recognised body.

########### Varying approval at request of relevant recognised body

1.309Q

1.309Q.1

Where an approval under section  309G  has effect subject to conditions, the
relevant recognised body that applied for the approval may apply to the
appropriate regulator to vary the approval by—

1.309Q.1.a

varying a condition,

1.309Q.1.b

removing a condition, or

1.309Q.1.c

imposing a new condition.

1.309Q.2

Where an approval under section  309G  has effect for a limited period, the
relevant recognised body that applied for the approval may apply to the
appropriate regulator to vary the approval by—

1.309Q.2.a

varying the period, or

1.309Q.2.b

removing the limit on the period for which the approval is to have effect.

1.309Q.3

The appropriate regulator must, before the end of the consultation period,
determine whether—

1.309Q.3.a

to grant the application, or

1.309Q.3.b

to give a warning notice under section  309M (2)  (as applied by subsection
(8) ).

1.309Q.4

The “consultation period” is—

1.309Q.4.a

such period as may be prescribed (and different periods may be prescribed in
relation to different types of relevant recognised bodies), or

1.309Q.4.b

if no such period is prescribed, the period of 3 months beginning with the day
on which the appropriate regulator receives the application to vary the
approval.

1.309Q.5

The appropriate regulator may refuse an application under this section, if it
appears to it that it is desirable to do so in order to advance a relevant
objective.

1.309Q.6

For the purposes of subsection  (5) , “ relevant objective ” means—

1.309Q.6.a

if the appropriate regulator is the FCA, any of its operational objectives;

1.309Q.6.b

if the appropriate regulator is the Bank of England, the Financial Stability
Objective.

1.309Q.7

An application may not be made under this section to vary or remove a
condition or limit that was imposed under section  309Z2 .

1.309Q.8

Except as provided for below, the following sections apply to an application
under this section for variation of an approval as they apply to an
application under section  309I —

1.309Q.8.a

section  309I (2)  to  (8) ,

1.309Q.8.b

section  309L (4)  and  (5) , and

1.309Q.8.c

section  309M , but as if the references in subsections  (1)  to  (4)  to
granting the application subject to conditions or for a limited period, or
without imposing conditions or limiting the period for which approval is
given, were omitted.

########### Varying approval on the appropriate regulator’s initiative

1.309R

1.309R.1

The appropriate regulator may vary an approval under section  309G  if it
considers it desirable to do so in order to advance a relevant objective.

1.309R.2

For these purposes, “ relevant objective ” means—

1.309R.2.a

if the appropriate regulator is the FCA, any of its operational objectives;

1.309R.2.b

if the appropriate regulator is the Bank of England, the Financial Stability
Objective.

1.309R.3

The appropriate regulator may vary the approval by doing the following—

1.309R.3.a

imposing a condition,

1.309R.3.b

varying a condition,

1.309R.3.c

removing a condition,

1.309R.3.d

where the approval has effect for an unlimited period, limiting the period of
the approval, or

1.309R.3.e

where the approval has effect for a limited period, varying that period or
removing the limit on the period.

1.309R.4

A variation under this section takes effect—

1.309R.4.a

immediately, if the notice given under subsection  (5)  states that to be the
case,

1.309R.4.b

on a date specified in the notice, or

1.309R.4.c

if no date is specified in the notice, when the matter to which the notice
relates is no longer open to review.

1.309R.5

If the appropriate regulator proposes to vary an approval or varies an
approval with immediate effect, it must give each of the interested parties
written notice—

1.309R.5.a

setting out details of the variation,

1.309R.5.b

stating the reasons for the variation,

1.309R.5.c

stating that each of the interested parties may make representations to the
appropriate regulator within the period specified in the notice (whether or
not any of the interested parties has referred the matter to the Tribunal),

1.309R.5.d

stating when the variation takes effect, and

1.309R.5.e

setting out each interested party’s right to refer the matter to the Tribunal.

1.309R.6

A variation may be expressed to take effect immediately or on a specified date
only if the appropriate regulator, having regard to its reason for varying the
approval, reasonably considers that it is necessary for the variation to take
effect immediately or on that date (as appropriate).

1.309R.7

The appropriate regulator may extend the period allowed under the notice for
making representations.

1.309R.8

The appropriate regulator must give each of the interested parties written
notice if, having considered the representations made, it decides—

1.309R.8.a

to vary the approval, or

1.309R.8.b

if the variation has taken effect, not to rescind it.

1.309R.9

A notice under subsection  (8)  must inform the interested parties of the
right of each of them to refer the matter to the Tribunal.

1.309R.10

The appropriate regulator must give each of the interested parties written
notice if, having considered the representations made, it decides—

1.309R.10.a

not to vary the approval,

1.309R.10.b

to vary the approval in a different way, or

1.309R.10.c

if the variation has taken effect, to rescind it.

1.309R.11

A notice under subsection  (10)(b)  must comply with the requirements set out
in subsection  (5)(a)  to  (e) .

1.309R.12

A notice under this section which informs the interested parties of the right
to refer a matter to the Tribunal must give an indication of the procedure on
such a reference.

1.309R.13

In this section, “ the interested parties ” has the same meaning as in section
309P .

1.309R.14

For the purposes of subsection  (4)(c) , whether a matter is open to review is
to be determined in accordance with section 391(8).

########### Statement of policy on approval

1.309S

1.309S.1

The appropriate regulator must prepare and issue a statement of its policy
with respect to—

1.309S.1.a

the giving of approval under section  309G  subject to conditions or for a
limited period only, and

1.309S.1.b

the variation under section  309Q  or  309R  of an approval given under
section  309G .

1.309S.2

The appropriate regulator—

1.309S.2.a

may alter or replace a statement issued under this section, and

1.309S.2.b

if it does so, must issue the altered or replacement statement.

1.309S.3

Before the appropriate regulator issues a statement of policy under this
section, it must publish a draft of the proposed statement in the way
appearing to it to be best calculated to bring it to the attention of the
public.

1.309S.4

The draft statement must be accompanied by a notice stating that
representations about the proposal may be made to the appropriate regulator
within a period specified in the notice.

1.309S.5

Before issuing the proposed statement, the appropriate regulator must have
regard to any representations made to it in accordance with subsection  (4) .

1.309S.6

If the appropriate regulator issues the proposed statement it must publish the
following in the way appearing to it to be best calculated to bring them to
the attention of the public—

1.309S.6.a

the statement,

1.309S.6.b

an account, in general terms, of the representations made to it in accordance
with subsection  (4)  and its response to them, and

1.309S.6.c

if the statement issued differs from the draft published under subsection  (3)
in a way which the appropriate regulator considers to be significant, details
of the difference.

1.309S.7

The appropriate regulator may charge a reasonable fee for providing a person
with—

1.309S.7.a

a copy of a draft statement published under subsection  (3) , or

1.309S.7.b

a copy of a statement published under subsection  (6)(a) .

1.309S.8

The appropriate regulator must, without delay, give the Treasury a copy of
each statement it publishes under subsection  (6)(a) .

########### Breach of statutory duty by relevant recognised bodies

1.309T

1.309T.1

A contravention of section  309G (1) is actionable at the suit of a private
person who suffers loss as a result of the contravention, subject to the
defences and other incidents applying to actions for breach of statutory duty.

1.309T.2

In prescribed cases, a contravention of section  309G (1) which would be
actionable at the suit of a private person is actionable at the suit of a
person who is not a private person, subject to the defences and other
incidents applying to actions for breach of statutory duty.

1.309T.3

In this section “private person” has such meaning as may be prescribed.

########### Power to impose penalties

1.309U

1.309U.1

The appropriate regulator may impose a penalty on a person if it is satisfied
that—

1.309U.1.a

the person has at any time performed a designated senior management function
without approval, and

1.309U.1.b

at that time the person knew, or could reasonably be expected to have known,
that they were performing a designated senior management function without
approval.

1.309U.2

The penalty may be of such amount as the appropriate regulator considers
appropriate.

1.309U.3

A person performs a designated senior management function without approval at
a time if—

1.309U.3.a

the person performs a designated senior management function under an
arrangement entered into by a relevant recognised body, or by a contractor of
a relevant recognised body, in relation to the carrying on of an activity by
the body, and

1.309U.3.b

when performing the function, the person is not acting in accordance with an
approval given under section  309G .

1.309U.4

The appropriate regulator may not impose a penalty on a person under this
section after the end of the limitation period unless it gave the person a
warning notice under section  309V  before the end of that period.

1.309U.5

For the purposes of subsection  (4) —

1.309U.5.a

“ the limitation period ” means the period of 6 years beginning with the first
day on which the appropriate regulator knew that the person concerned had
performed a designated senior management function without approval, and

1.309U.5.b

the appropriate regulator is to be treated as knowing that a person has
performed a designated senior management function without approval if it has
information from which that can reasonably be inferred.

########### Procedure for imposing penalties

1.309V

1.309V.1

If the appropriate regulator proposes to impose a penalty on a person under
section  309U , it must give the person a warning notice.

1.309V.2

A warning notice under this section must state the amount of the penalty.

1.309V.3

If the appropriate regulator decides to impose a penalty on a person under
section  309U , it must give the person a decision notice.

1.309V.4

A decision notice under this section must state the amount of the penalty.

1.309V.5

If the appropriate regulator decides to impose a penalty on a person under
section  309U , the person may refer the matter to the Tribunal.

########### Statement of policy on penalties

1.309W

1.309W.1

The appropriate regulator must prepare and issue a statement of its policy
with respect to—

1.309W.1.a

the imposition of penalties under section  309U , and

1.309W.1.b

the amount of penalties under that section.

1.309W.2

The appropriate regulator’s policy in determining whether a penalty should be
imposed, and what the amount of a penalty should be, must include having
regard to—

1.309W.2.a

the conduct of the person on whom the penalty is to be imposed,

1.309W.2.b

the extent to which the person could reasonably be expected to have known that
a designated senior management function was performed without approval,

1.309W.2.c

the length of the period during which the person performed a designated senior
management function without approval, and

1.309W.2.d

whether the person on whom the penalty is to be imposed is an individual.

1.309W.3

The appropriate regulator’s policy in determining whether a penalty should be
imposed on a person must also include having regard to the appropriateness of
taking action against the person instead of, or in addition to, taking action
against a relevant recognised body.

1.309W.4

A statement issued under this section must include an indication of the
circumstances in which the appropriate regulator would expect to be satisfied
that a person could reasonably be expected to have known that the person was
performing a designated senior management function without approval.

1.309W.5

The appropriate regulator—

1.309W.5.a

may alter or replace a statement issued under this section, and

1.309W.5.b

if it does so, must issue the altered or replacement statement.

1.309W.6

When imposing, or deciding whether to impose, a penalty on a person under
section  309U , the appropriate regulator must have regard to any statement of
policy published under this section (which was in force at a time when the
person performed a designated senior management function without approval).

########### Procedure for statement of policy on penalties

1.309X

1.309X.1

Before the appropriate regulator issues a statement under section  309W (1)
or  (5) , it must publish a draft of the proposed statement in the way
appearing to it to be best calculated to bring it to the attention of the
public.

1.309X.2

The draft statement must be accompanied by a notice stating that
representations about the proposal may be made to the appropriate regulator
within the period specified in the notice.

1.309X.3

Before issuing the proposed statement, the appropriate regulator must have
regard to any representations made to it in accordance with subsection  (2) .

1.309X.4

If the appropriate regulator issues the proposed statement it must publish the
following in the way appearing to it to be best calculated to bring them to
the attention of the public—

1.309X.4.a

the statement,

1.309X.4.b

an account, in general terms, of the representations made to the appropriate
regulator in accordance with subsection  (2)  and the appropriate regulator’s
response to them, and

1.309X.4.c

if the statement issued differs from the draft published under subsection  (1)
in a way which the appropriate regulator considers to be significant, details
of the difference.

1.309X.5

The appropriate regulator may charge a reasonable fee for providing a person
with—

1.309X.5.a

a copy of a draft statement published under subsection  (1) , or

1.309X.5.b

a copy of a statement published under subsection  (4)(a) .

1.309X.6

The appropriate regulator must, without delay, give the Treasury a copy of a
statement which it publishes under subsection  (4)(a) .

########## Certification of employees

########### Certification of employees by relevant recognised bodies

1.309Y

1.309Y.1

A relevant recognised body must take reasonable care to ensure that none of
its employees performs a specified function in relation to the carrying on of
an activity by the body, unless the employee has a valid certificate issued by
the body under section  309Z .

1.309Y.2

Subsection  (1)  applies only in relation to a function performed under an
arrangement entered into by the body.

1.309Y.3

In this section, “ specified function ” means a function of a description
specified in rules made by the appropriate regulator.

1.309Y.4

The appropriate regulator may specify a description of function under
subsection  (3)  only if, in relation to the carrying on of an activity by a
relevant recognised body of a particular description—

1.309Y.4.a

the function is not a designated senior management function in relation to the
carrying on of that activity by a relevant recognised body of that
description, and

1.309Y.4.b

the appropriate regulator is satisfied that the function is a significant-harm
function.

1.309Y.5

A function is a “ significant-harm function ”, in relation to the carrying on
of an activity by a relevant recognised body, if—

1.309Y.5.a

the function will require the person performing it to be involved in one or
more aspects of the body’s affairs, so far as relating to the activity, and

1.309Y.5.b

those aspects involve, or might involve, a risk of significant harm to the
body or to any of its consumers.

1.309Y.6

In this section, “ consumers ”, in relation to a relevant recognised body,
means—

1.309Y.6.a

persons who use, have used or may use a service provided by the body, or

1.309Y.6.b

persons who have relevant rights or interests in relation to any such service.

1.309Y.7

A person (“ P ”) has a “ relevant right or interest ” in relation to a service
provided by a relevant recognised body if P has a right or interest—

1.309Y.7.a

which is derived from, or is otherwise attributable to, the use of the service
by others, or

1.309Y.7.b

which may be adversely affected by the use of the service by persons acting on
P’s behalf or in a fiduciary capacity in relation to P.

1.309Y.8

For these purposes—

1.309Y.8.a

if a person is providing a service as a trustee, the persons who are, have
been or may be beneficiaries of the trust are to be treated as persons who
use, have used or may use the service;

1.309Y.8.b

a person who deals with another person (“ A ”) in the course of A providing a
service is to be treated as using the service.

########### Issuing certificates

1.309Z

1.309Z.1

A relevant recognised body may issue a certificate to a person under this
section in relation to a function only if the body is satisfied that the
person is a fit and proper person to perform the function.

1.309Z.2

In deciding that question the body must have regard, among other things, to
whether the person—

1.309Z.2.a

has obtained a specified qualification,

1.309Z.2.b

has undergone, or is undergoing, specified training,

1.309Z.2.c

possesses a specified level of competence, or

1.309Z.2.d

has specified personal characteristics.

1.309Z.3

In subsection  (2) , “ specified ” means specified in rules made by the
appropriate regulator.

1.309Z.4

A certificate issued by a relevant recognised body to a person under this
section must—

1.309Z.4.a

state that the body is satisfied that the person is a fit and proper person to
perform the function to which the certificate relates, and

1.309Z.4.b

set out the aspects of the body’s affairs in which the person will be involved
in performing the function.

1.309Z.5

A certificate issued under this section is valid for a period of 12 months
beginning with the day on which it is issued.

1.309Z.6

If, after having considered whether a person is a fit and proper person to
perform a function, a relevant recognised body decides not to issue a
certificate to the person under this section, the body must give the person a
notice in writing stating—

1.309Z.6.a

what steps (if any) the body proposes to take in relation to the person as a
result of the decision, and

1.309Z.6.b

the reasons for proposing to take those steps.

1.309Z.7

A relevant recognised body must maintain a record of every employee who has a
valid certificate issued by it under this section.

########## Rules of conduct

########### Rules of conduct

1.309Z1

1.309Z1.1

If it appears to the appropriate regulator to be necessary or expedient for
the purposes of advancing a relevant objective, the appropriate regulator may
make rules about the conduct of the following persons in relation to the
performance by them of qualifying functions—

1.309Z1.1.a

persons in relation to whom the appropriate regulator has given its approval
under section  309G  (“Part 18 approved persons”);

1.309Z1.1.b

directors of relevant recognised bodies;

1.309Z1.1.c

employees of relevant recognised bodies.

1.309Z1.2

Rules under subsection  (1)  may include provision requiring a relevant
recognised body to—

1.309Z1.2.a

notify persons mentioned in subsection  (1)  of the rules that apply to them;

1.309Z1.2.b

take specified steps to secure that such persons understand how those rules
apply in relation to them.

1.309Z1.3

Rules under subsection  (1)  may include provision requiring a relevant
recognised body to notify the appropriate regulator if the body takes
specified disciplinary action in relation to a person mentioned in subsection
(1) .

1.309Z1.4

In this section—

“ qualifying function ” means a function relating to the carrying on of
activities by the following— in the case of a Part 18 approved person, the
relevant recognised body on whose application approval was given; in the case
of a director or employee of a relevant recognised body, who is not a Part 18
approved person, the relevant recognised body; “ relevant objective ” means—
if the appropriate regulator is the FCA, any of its operational objectives; if
the appropriate regulator is the Bank of England, the Financial Stability
Objective. “ specified ” means specified in the rules.

########## Disciplinary action by appropriate regulator

########### Power to take disciplinary action for misconduct

1.309Z2

1.309Z2.1

Subsection  (2)  applies if—

1.309Z2.1.a

it appears to the appropriate regulator that a person is guilty of misconduct
(see section  309Z3 ), and

1.309Z2.1.b

the appropriate regulator is satisfied that it is appropriate in all the
circumstances to take action against the person.

1.309Z2.2

The appropriate regulator may do one or more of the following—

1.309Z2.2.a

publish a statement of the person’s misconduct;

1.309Z2.2.b

impose a penalty on the person of such amount as the appropriate regulator
considers appropriate;

1.309Z2.2.c

suspend an approval of the performance of a function by the person under
section  309G  for such period as the appropriate regulator considers
appropriate;

1.309Z2.2.d

impose such conditions as the appropriate regulator considers appropriate in
relation to such an approval for such period as the appropriate regulator
considers appropriate;

1.309Z2.2.e

limit the period for which such an approval is to have effect.

1.309Z2.3

Where the appropriate regulator takes action described in subsection  (2)(c) ,
(d)  or  (e) —

1.309Z2.3.a

it may not suspend an approval for more than 2 years;

1.309Z2.3.b

it may not impose conditions which have effect for more than 2 years;

1.309Z2.3.c

it may impose a condition so as to, among other things, require a person to
take, or refrain from taking, specified action;

1.309Z2.3.d

it may impose a suspension, condition or limitation that has effect in
relation to part of a function.

1.309Z2.4

The appropriate regulator that has taken action described in subsection
(2)(c) ,  (d)  or  (e)  may (at any time)—

1.309Z2.4.a

withdraw a suspension, condition or limitation;

1.309Z2.4.b

vary a suspension or condition so as to reduce the period for which it has
effect or otherwise to limit its effect;

1.309Z2.4.c

vary a limitation so as to increase the period for which the approval is to
have effect.

1.309Z2.5

The appropriate regulator may not take action under this section after the end
of the period of 6 years beginning with the first day on which the appropriate
regulator knew of the misconduct unless, before the end of that period, it
gave a warning notice to the person concerned under section  309Z4 .

1.309Z2.6

For the purposes of subsection  (5) , the appropriate regulator is to be
treated as knowing of misconduct if it has information from which the
misconduct can reasonably be inferred.

1.309Z2.7

When a suspension is in force under subsection  (2)(c)  in relation to part of
a function, the references in section  309G  and  309U  to the performance of
a function include the performance of part of a function.

1.309Z2.8

If at any time a condition imposed under subsection  (2)(d)  is contravened,
the approval in relation to the person concerned is to be treated for the
purposes of sections  309G  and  309U  as if it had been withdrawn at that
time.

########### Meaning of “misconduct”

1.309Z3

1.309Z3.1

For the purposes of section  309Z2 , a person is guilty of misconduct if any
of conditions A to C is met.

1.309Z3.2

Condition A is that—

1.309Z3.2.a

the person has at any time failed to comply with rules made under section
309Z1 , and

1.309Z3.2.b

at that time the person was—

1.309Z3.2.b.i

a Part 18 approved person,

1.309Z3.2.b.ii

an employee of a relevant recognised body, or

1.309Z3.2.b.iii

a director of a relevant recognised body.

1.309Z3.3

Condition B is that—

1.309Z3.3.a

the person has at any time after the passing of this Act been knowingly
concerned in a contravention by a relevant recognised body of a relevant
requirement, and

1.309Z3.3.b

at that time the person was—

1.309Z3.3.b.i

a Part 18 approved person in relation to the relevant recognised body,

1.309Z3.3.b.ii

an employee of the relevant recognised body, or

1.309Z3.3.b.iii

a director of the relevant recognised body.

1.309Z3.4

Condition C is that—

1.309Z3.4.a

the person has at any time been a Part 18 approved person in relation to a
relevant recognised body,

1.309Z3.4.b

at that time there was, or continued to be, a contravention by the body of a
relevant requirement,

1.309Z3.4.c

the person was at that time responsible for the management of any of the
body’s activities in relation to which the contravention occurred, and

1.309Z3.4.d

the person did not take such steps as a person in that position could
reasonably be expected to take to avoid the contravention occurring or
continuing.

1.309Z3.5

In this section—

“Part 18 approved person”— means a person in relation to whom an approval is
given under section  309G , and in relation to a relevant recognised body,
means a person in relation to whom such approval is given on the application
of the relevant recognised body; “ relevant requirement ” has the meaning
given by section 312E(2) and (3).

########### Procedure for disciplinary action

1.309Z4

1.309Z4.1

If the appropriate regulator proposes to take action against a person under
section  309Z2 , it must—

1.309Z4.1.a

give the person a warning notice, and

1.309Z4.1.b

in the case of proposed action under section  309Z2 (2)(c) ,  (d)  or  (e) ,
give each of the other interested parties a warning notice.

1.309Z4.2

A warning notice under this section about a proposal to publish a statement of
a person’s misconduct must set out the terms of the statement.

1.309Z4.3

A warning notice under this section about a proposal to impose a penalty must
state the amount of the penalty.

1.309Z4.4

A warning notice under this section about—

1.309Z4.4.a

a proposal to suspend an approval given under section  309G , or

1.309Z4.4.b

a proposal to impose a condition in relation to such an approval,

must state the period for which the suspension or condition is to have effect.

1.309Z4.5

A warning notice under this section about a proposal to limit the period for
which an approval under section  309G  is to have effect must state the length
of that period.

1.309Z4.6

If the appropriate regulator decides to take action against a person under
section  309Z2 , it must—

1.309Z4.6.a

give the person a decision notice, and

1.309Z4.6.b

in the case of proposed action under section  309Z2 (2)(c) ,  (d)  or  (e) ,
give each of the other interested parties a copy of the decision notice.

1.309Z4.7

A decision notice under this section about the publication of a statement of a
person’s misconduct must set out the terms of the statement.

1.309Z4.8

A decision notice under this section about the imposition of a penalty must
state the amount of the penalty.

1.309Z4.9

A decision notice under this section about—

1.309Z4.9.a

the suspension of an approval given under section  309G , or

1.309Z4.9.b

the imposition of a condition in relation to such an approval,

must state the period for which the suspension or condition is to have effect.

1.309Z4.10

A decision notice under this section about limiting the period for which an
approval under section  309G  is to have effect must state the length of that
period.

1.309Z4.11

If the appropriate regulator decides to take action against a person under
section  309Z2 —

1.309Z4.11.a

the person may refer the matter to the Tribunal, and

1.309Z4.11.b

in the case of proposed action under section  309Z2 (2)(c) ,  (d)  or  (e) ,
each of the other interested parties may also refer the matter to the
Tribunal.

1.309Z4.12

After a statement of a person’s misconduct is published under section  309Z2 ,
the appropriate regulator must send a copy of it to—

1.309Z4.12.a

the person concerned, and

1.309Z4.12.b

any person to whom a copy of the decision notice was given.

1.309Z4.13

In this section—

“ Part 18 approved person ”, in relation to a relevant recognised body, has
the meaning given by section  309Z3 (5) ; “ the other interested parties ”, in
relation to a Part 18 approved person in relation to a relevant recognised
body, are— the relevant recognised body, and the person by whom the Part 18
approved person’s services are retained, if different from the relevant
recognised body.

########### Statement of policy about disciplinary action

1.309Z5

1.309Z5.1

The appropriate regulator must prepare and issue a statement of its policy
with respect to—

1.309Z5.1.a

the imposition of penalties, suspensions, conditions or limitations under
section  309Z2 ,

1.309Z5.1.b

the amount of penalties under that section,

1.309Z5.1.c

the period for which suspensions or conditions under that section are to have
effect, and

1.309Z5.1.d

the period for which approvals under section  309G  are to have effect as a
result of a limitation under section  309Z2 .

1.309Z5.2

The appropriate regulator’s policy in determining what the amount of a penalty
should be, or what the period for which a suspension or restriction is to have
effect should be, must include having regard to—

1.309Z5.2.a

the seriousness of the misconduct in question,

1.309Z5.2.b

the extent to which that misconduct was deliberate or reckless, and

1.309Z5.2.c

whether the person against whom action is to be taken is an individual.

1.309Z5.3

The appropriate regulator—

1.309Z5.3.a

may alter or replace a statement issued under this section, and

1.309Z5.3.b

if it does so, must issue the altered or replacement statement.

1.309Z5.4

In exercising, or deciding whether to exercise, its power under section  309Z2
in the case of particular misconduct, the appropriate regulator must have
regard to any statement of policy published under this section and in force at
the time when the misconduct in question occurred.

########### Procedure for statement of policy about disciplinary action

1.309Z6

1.309Z6.1

Before the appropriate regulator issues a statement under section  309Z5 (1)
or  (3) , it must publish a draft of the proposed statement in the way
appearing to it to be best calculated to bring it to the attention of the
public.

1.309Z6.2

The draft statement must be accompanied by a notice stating that
representations about the proposal may be made to the appropriate regulator
within a period specified in the notice.

1.309Z6.3

Before issuing the proposed statement, the appropriate regulator must have
regard to any representations made to it in accordance with subsection  (2) .

1.309Z6.4

If the appropriate regulator issues the proposed statement it must publish the
following in the way appearing to the appropriate regulator to be best
calculated to bring it to the attention of the public—

1.309Z6.4.a

the statement,

1.309Z6.4.b

an account, in general terms, of the representations made to the appropriate
regulator in accordance with subsection  (2)  and the appropriate regulator’s
response to them, and

1.309Z6.4.c

if the statement differs from the draft published under subsection  (1)  in a
way which the appropriate regulator considers significant, details of the
difference.

1.309Z6.5

The appropriate regulator may charge a reasonable fee for providing a person
with—

1.309Z6.5.a

a copy of a draft statement published under subsection  (1) , or

1.309Z6.5.b

a copy of a statement published under subsection  (4)(a) .

1.309Z6.6

The appropriate regulator must, without delay, give the Treasury a copy of any
statement which it publishes under subsection  (4)(a) .

########## Interpretation

########### Interpretation of Chapter 2A

1.309Z7

1.309Z7.1

In this Chapter—

“ director ”, in relation to a relevant recognised body, means a member of the
board of directors of the body or, if there is no such board, the equivalent
body responsible for the management of the body; “ employee ”, in relation to
a relevant recognised body, includes a person who— personally provides, or is
under an obligation personally to provide, services to the body under an
arrangement made between the body and the person providing the services or
another person, and is subject to, or to the right of, supervision, direction
or control by the body as to the manner in which those services are provided;
“ relevant recognised body ” has the meaning given in section  309A ; “senior
management function” and “designated senior management function” have the
meanings given in section  309G  (see subsections  (3)  and  (5)  of that
section).

1.309Z7.2

In this Chapter, references to performing a designated senior management
function without approval have the meaning given in section  309U (3) .

########## Application of this Chapter to credit rating agencies

########### Power to apply this Chapter to credit rating agencies

1.309Z8

1.309Z8.1

The Treasury may by regulations provide for this Chapter, or any provision of
this Chapter, to apply (with or without modifications) in relation to—

1.309Z8.1.a

registered credit rating agencies, or

1.309Z8.1.b

registered credit rating agencies of descriptions specified in the
regulations.

1.309Z8.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  must provide for the FCA to be the
appropriate regulator in relation to a registered credit rating agency to
which any provision of this Chapter is applied by the regulations.

1.309Z8.3

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may modify legislation (including any
provision of, or made under, this Act).

1.309Z8.4

Before making regulations under subsection  (1) , the Treasury must consult—

1.309Z8.4.a

the FCA, and

1.309Z8.4.b

such other persons who appear to the Treasury to be representative of persons
likely to be affected by the application of this Chapter to registered credit
rating agencies, or registered credit rating agencies of descriptions
specified in the regulations.

1.309Z8.5

In this section—

“ legislation ” means primary legislation, subordinate legislation (within the
meaning of the Interpretation Act 1978) and retained direct EU legislation,
but does not include rules or other instruments made by any regulator; “
modify ” includes amend, repeal or revoke; “ registered credit rating agency ”
means a credit rating agency registered in accordance with Regulation  (EC) No
1060/2009  of the European Parliament and the Council of 16 September 2009 on
credit rating agencies.

##### Related amendments

###### Amendments to FSMA 2000

2

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

3

3.1

Section 56 (prohibition orders) is amended as follows—

3.2

After subsection (7C) insert—

3.2.7D

If—

3.2.7D.a

the FCA proposes to vary or revoke a prohibition order which makes provision
in relation to a recognised body, and

3.2.7D.b

the FCA is not the appropriate regulator in relation to recognised bodies of
that type,

the FCA must consult the appropriate regulator.

3.2.7E

If the PRA proposes to vary or revoke a prohibition order which makes
provision in relation to a recognised body, the PRA must consult the
appropriate regulator in relation to recognised bodies of that type.

3.3

For subsection (9) substitute—

3.3.9

In this section—

“ the appropriate regulator ”, in relation to a recognised body, has the
meaning given by section 285A; “ recognised body ” has the meaning given by
section 313; “ specified ” means specified in the prohibition order.

4

4.1

Section 57 (prohibition orders: procedure and right to refer to Tribunal) is
amended as follows.

4.2

After subsection (8) insert—

4.2.9

If—

4.2.9.a

the FCA proposes to make a prohibition order which makes provision in relation
to a recognised body, and

4.2.9.b

the FCA is not the appropriate regulator in relation to recognised bodies of
that type,

the FCA must consult the appropriate regulator before giving a warning notice
under this section.

4.2.10

If the PRA proposes to make a prohibition order which makes provision in
relation to a recognised body, the PRA must consult the appropriate regulator
in relation to recognised bodies of that type before giving a warning notice
under this section.

4.2.11

In this section—

“ the appropriate regulator ”, in relation to a recognised body, has the
meaning given by section 285A; “ recognised body ” has the meaning given by
section 313;

.

5

In section 59AB(1) (specifying functions as controlled functions: transitional
provision), after “this Part”, in both places, insert  “or Chapter 2A of Part
18” .

6

In section 133(7A) (proceedings before Tribunal: general provision), after
paragraph (l) insert—

6.la

a decision to impose a penalty under section  309U ;

6.lb

a decision to take action under section  309Z2 ;

.

7

In section 138A (modification or waiver of rules), in subsection (2), after
paragraph (b) insert—

7.c

rules made by the FCA under section  309Z1  (rules of conduct).

8

8.1

Section 168 (appointment of persons to carry out investigations in particular
cases) is amended as follows.

8.2

After subsection (4) insert—

8.2.4A

Subsection (5) applies if it appears to the investigating authority that there
are circumstances suggesting that—

8.2.4A.a

an individual may not be a fit and proper person to perform functions in
relation to an activity carried on by a relevant recognised body;

8.2.4A.b

an individual may have performed, or agreed to perform, a function in breach
of a Part 18 prohibition order;

8.2.4A.c

a person may have failed to comply with section  309F (1) ;

8.2.4A.d

a relevant recognised body may have failed to comply with section  309G (1) ;

8.2.4A.e

a person in relation to whom the FCA has given approval under section  309G
may not be a fit and proper person to perform the function to which that
approval relates;

8.2.4A.f

a person may have performed a designated senior management function without
approval under section  309G  (see section  309U (3) );

8.2.4A.g

a person may be guilty of misconduct for the purposes of section  309Z2 .

8.3

In subsection (6), after paragraph (b) insert—

8.3.c

in subsection  (4A) , the FCA.

8.4

After subsection (6), insert—

8.4.7

“ Relevant recognised body ” has the same meaning as in Chapter 2A of Part 18
(see section  309A ).

9

In the heading of Chapter 3B of Part 18, at the end insert  “in respect of
recognised bodies” .

10

Section 312FA is omitted.

11

In section 313 (interpretation of Part 18), in subsection (1)—

11.a

omit the definition of “application”;

11.b

omit the definition of “applicant”.

12

12.1

Section 347 (the record of authorised persons etc) is amended as follows.

12.2

In subsection (1)—

12.2.a

in paragraph (g), for “or Part 9C prohibition order” substitute  “, Part 9C
prohibition order or Part 18 prohibition order” ;

12.2.b

after paragraph (h), insert—

12.2.b.hza

Part 18 approved person;

.

12.3

In subsection (2)—

12.3.a

in paragraph (f), after “prohibition order” insert  “, Part 9C prohibition
order or Part 18 prohibition order” ;

12.3.b

after paragraph (h) insert—

12.3.b.ha

in the case of a person who is a Part 18 approved person—

12.3.b.ha.i

the person’s name;

12.3.b.ha.ii

the name of the relevant recognised body concerned;

12.3.b.ha.iii

if the Part 18 approved person is performing a designated senior management
function under an arrangement with a contractor of the relevant recognised
body concerned, the name of the contractor;

12.3.b.ha.iv

whether a final notice has been given to the person under section 390;

12.3.b.ha.v

if so, any information about the matter to which the notice relates which has
been published under section 391(4);

.

12.4

In subsection (8), after ““Approved person”” insert  “(except in the
expression “ Part 18 approved person ”)” .

12.5

After subsection (8) insert—

12.5.8ZA

“ Part 18 approved person ” means a person in relation to whom the FCA has
given its approval under section  309G .

12.6

In subsection (8A)—

12.6.a

in the definition of “designated senior management function”, for the words
after “function”” substitute

—

in relation to an authorised person, has the meaning given by section 59ZB; in
relation to a relevant recognised body, has the meaning given by section  309G
(3) ;

.

12.6.b

at the end insert—

“ relevant recognised body ” has the same meaning as in Chapter 2A of Part 18
(see section  309A ).

12.7

In subsection (9), after “approval” insert  “under section 59” .

12.8

After subsection (9) insert—

12.8.10

“ The relevant recognised body concerned ”, in relation to a Part 18 approved
person, means the relevant recognised body on whose application approval under
section  309G  was given.

13

In section 391 (publication of notices), in subsection (1ZB), after paragraph
(k) insert—

13.ka

section  309V ;

13.kb

section  309Z4 ;

.

14

14.1

Section 392 (application of sections 393 and 394) is amended as follows.

14.2

In paragraph (a) (warning notices), after “282B(3),” insert  “ 309C (1)(b) ,
309P (1)(b) ,  309V (1) ,  309Z4 (1) ,” .

14.3

In paragraph (b) (decision notices), after “282B(4),” insert  “ 309C (3) ,
309P (2) ,  309V (3) ,  309Z4 (6) ,” .

15

In section 395 (the FCA’s and PRA’s procedures), in subsection (13), after
paragraph (fa) insert—

15.fb

309R (5) ,  (8)  or  (10) (b) ;

.

16

16.1

Section 417(1) (interpretation) is amended as follows.

16.2

In the appropriate place insert—

“ Part 18 prohibition order ” has the meaning given in section  309B ;

.

16.3

In the definition of “prohibition order”, after ““Part 9C prohibition order””
insert “or  ““Part 18C prohibition order”” .

17

In section 429 (Parliamentary control of statutory instruments)

17.a

in subsection (2), in the list of sections beginning with “90B” insert at the
appropriate place  “ 309Z8 ,” ;

17.b

in subsection (2B), after paragraph (ba) insert—

17.b.bb

provision made under section  309H (2)  which modifies, excludes or applies
with modifications any provision of primary legislation;

.

18

18.1

Schedule 1ZA (the Financial Conduct Authority) is amended as follows.

18.2

In paragraph 20(4), after paragraph (ba) insert—

18.2.bb

its powers under section  309B  (Part 18 prohibition orders),

.

18.3

In paragraph 24, after paragraph (b) insert—

18.3.c

a fee to be paid by any person whose application under section  309I  for
approval under section  309G  has been granted.

19

In Schedule 2A (Gibraltar-based persons carrying on activities in the UK), in
paragraph 19 (power to reject: prohibition order in respect of senior
manager), in sub-paragraph (2)(b)—

19.a

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (ii) and insert—

19.a.iia

an order under section  309B , or

;

19.b

in paragraph (iii) for “or 143S” substitute  “, 143S or  309B ” .

20

20.1

Schedule 17A (further provision in relation to exercise of Part 18 functions
by Bank of England) is amended as follows.

20.2

After paragraph 6 insert—

20.2.6A

20.2.6A.1

If the Bank makes a Part 18 prohibition order relating to an individual, the
Bank must—

20.2.6A.1.a

provide the FCA with information falling within section 347(2)(f) in relation
to the order, and

20.2.6A.1.b

where the FCA has notified the Bank that it considers it appropriate to
include in the record maintained under section 347 information of a certain
description, disclose to the FCA such information of that description relating
to the order or the individual as the Bank has in its possession.

20.2.6A.2

The duty to provide information under sub-paragraph  (1) —

20.2.6A.2.a

does not apply to information which the Bank reasonably believes is in the
possession of the FCA;

20.2.6A.2.b

does not require or authorise the disclosure of information whose disclosure
is prohibited by or under section 348;

20.2.6A.2.c

is without prejudice to any other power of the Bank to disclose information.

20.3

In paragraph 14(2) (investigations)—

20.3.a

in paragraph (b), for “clearing house or central securities depository”
substitute  “person” ;

20.3.b

at the end insert—

20.3.b.i

an individual may not be a fit and proper person to perform functions in
relation to an activity carried on by a relevant recognised body;

20.3.b.j

an individual may have performed, or agreed to perform, a function in breach
of a Part 18 prohibition order;

20.3.b.k

a relevant recognised body may have failed to comply with section  309F (1) ;

20.3.b.l

a relevant recognised body may have failed to comply with section  309G (1) ;

20.3.b.m

a person in relation to whom the Bank has given approval under section  309G
may not be a fit and proper person to perform the function to which that
approval relates;

20.3.b.n

a person may have performed a designated senior management function without
approval under section  309G  (see section  309U (3) );

20.3.b.o

a person may be guilty of misconduct for the purposes of section  309Z2 .

20.4

In paragraph 22 (application of section 347 to the Bank)—

20.4.a

the words after “etc)” become paragraph (a);

20.4.b

after that paragraph insert—

20.4.b.b

so far as it relates to approved persons, applies in relation to the Bank as
if references in that section to an approved person were to a person in
relation to whom the Bank has given approval under section  309G .

20.5

In paragraph 29 (notices)—

20.5.a

the words after “(notices) apply” become paragraph (a);

20.5.b

in that paragraph, after “192L,” insert  “ 309C ,  309D ,  309M ,  309P ,
309V ,  309Z4 ,” ;

20.5.c

after that paragraph insert—

20.5.c.b

in relation to a notice under section  309R (5) ,  (8)  or  (10) (b)  as they
apply in relation to such a notice given by the FCA under those provisions.

20.6

In paragraph 31(1) (proceedings for an offence), after paragraph (c) insert—

20.6.ca

an offence under section  309E ;

.

20.7

In paragraph 36 (fees), after sub-paragraph (4) insert—

20.7.5

The power conferred by this paragraph may not be used to require a fee to be
paid by any person whose application under section  309I  for approval under
section  309G  has been granted.

###### Financial Services Act 2012

21

21.1

Section 110 of the Financial Services Act 2012 (payment to Treasury of
penalties received by Bank of England) is amended as follows.

21.2

In subsection (2)(a), after “192K” insert  “,  309U ,  309Z2 ” .

21.3

In subsection (5), after paragraph (a) insert—

21.3.aa

sections  309B ,  309U  and  309Z2  of that Act (Part 18 prohibition orders),

.

  Central counterparties

Section 57

##### Introductory

###### Overview

1

1.1

The purpose of the special resolution regime for CCPs (see Part 5 of this
Schedule) is to address the situation where all or part of the business of a
CCP has encountered, or is likely to encounter, financial difficulties.

1.2

The special resolution regime consists of the eight stabilisation options.

1.3

The eight stabilisation options are—

1.3.a

transfer to a private sector purchaser (paragraph  27 ),

1.3.b

transfer to a bridge central counterparty (paragraph  29 ),

1.3.c

transfer of ownership (paragraph  30 ),

1.3.d

terminating clearing member contracts (paragraph  31 ),

1.3.e

making a cash call (paragraph  32 ),

1.3.f

reducing variation margin payments (paragraph  33 ),

1.3.g

writing down liabilities (paragraphs  34  and  35 ), and

1.3.h

taking control of the CCP (paragraph  38 ).

1.4

The stabilisation options are achieved through the exercise of one or more of
the “stabilisation powers” which are—

1.4.a

the share transfer powers (paragraphs  41  and  49  to  53 ),

1.4.b

the property transfer powers (paragraphs  54  and  67  to  74 ), and

1.4.c

the other resolution powers (paragraphs  31  to  35  and  38 ).

1.5

Each of the following has a role in the operation of the special resolution
regime—

1.5.a

the Bank,

1.5.b

the Treasury,

1.5.c

the PRA, and

1.5.d

the FCA.

1.6

Other Parts of this Schedule deal with the following matters—

1.6.a

powers and requirements in relation to CCPs which are exercisable by the Bank
in advance of reliance on the special resolution regime (see Parts 2 to 4);

1.6.b

powers relating to information, investigation and enforcement in relation to
requirements under this Schedule (see Part 6);

1.6.c

third-country resolution action (see Part 7);

1.6.d

other general provision, financial provision and consequential amendments (see
Parts 8 to 10).

##### Pre-resolution powers of the Bank of England

###### Removal of impediments to the exercise of stabilisation powers etc

2

2.1

The Bank may give directions to a CCP to take measures which the Bank
considers are required to address impediments to the effective exercise of the
stabilisation powers.

2.2

The power conferred by sub-paragraph  (1)  includes (but is not limited to) a
power to direct the CCP—

2.2.a

to enter into or revise an agreement for the provision of services relating to
the provision of critical clearing services;

2.2.b

to limit its maximum individual and aggregate exposures to loss;

2.2.c

to produce information which is relevant to the exercise of the stabilisation
powers, and to provide that information to the Bank;

2.2.d

to dispose of specified assets;

2.2.e

to cease carrying out specified activities, or observe restrictions in
relation to the carrying out of specified activities;

2.2.f

to cease the development of new or existing business operations, or observe
restrictions in relation to the development of such operations;

2.2.g

to make specified changes to its recovery plan, rules or contractual
arrangements;

2.2.h

in order to ensure that it is possible for the performance of critical
clearing services to be legally or operationally separated from the
performance of other functions—

2.2.h.i

to change its legal or operational structure, or

2.2.h.ii

so far as it is able to do so, to change the legal or operational structure of
a subsidiary;

2.2.i

to change its operational and financial arrangements so as to separate
specified classes of assets from other specified classes of assets;

2.2.j

to restrict netting sets in relation to specified classes of assets;

2.2.k

to establish a parent company in the United Kingdom.

2.3

Where a CCP is a subsidiary of a company incorporated in the United Kingdom,
the Bank may give directions to its parent company requiring the parent
company to establish a separate holding company as a parent of the subsidiary
for the purpose of—

2.3.a

facilitating the exercise of the stabilisation powers, or

2.3.b

ensuring that the exercise of a stabilisation power does not have an adverse
effect on any other entities in the group.

2.4

Before giving directions under this paragraph the Bank must have regard to the
potential impact of the direction on—

2.4.a

the CCP or entity in question,

2.4.b

the market for financial services within the United Kingdom, and

2.4.c

the financial stability of the United Kingdom.

2.5

Where the CCP in question is a PRA-authorised person, the Bank must consult
the PRA before giving directions under this paragraph.

2.6

Directions under this paragraph—

2.6.a

must be in writing,

2.6.b

may be given with general effect or with respect to a particular CCP or class
of CCPs, and

2.6.c

may be varied or revoked.

2.7

Nothing in this paragraph limits the powers of the Bank under section 296 or
296A of, or paragraph 9B of Schedule 17A to, FSMA 2000.

2.8

In this paragraph, “ recovery plan ” in relation to a CCP, means a plan
required under paragraph 29B of the Schedule to the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (Recognition Requirements for Investment Exchanges, Clearing
Houses and Central Securities Depositories) Regulations 2001 ( S.I. 2001/995
).

###### Safeguards relating to directions under paragraph 

3

3.1

A direction given to a relevant person under paragraph  2  must be accompanied
by a notice which—

3.1.a

states when the direction takes effect (see sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) ),

3.1.b

gives the Bank’s reasons for giving the direction, and

3.1.c

specifies a reasonable period within which the person may make representations
to the Bank about the direction.

3.2

The direction may, if the Bank considers it necessary, take effect—

3.2.a

immediately it is given to the relevant person, or

3.2.b

on a later date specified in the direction.

3.3

In any other case the direction takes effect when—

3.3.a

it has been confirmed by a notice under sub-paragraph  (5) , and

3.3.b

the period during which the direction may be referred to the Upper Tribunal
(under sub-paragraph  (6) ) has expired and, if the matter was so referred,
the reference and any appeal against the Tribunal’s determination, has been
finally disposed of.

3.4

Where representations are made by the relevant person within the period
specified under sub-paragraph  (1)(c) , the Bank must, within a reasonable
period, consider those representations and decide—

3.4.a

whether to confirm or revoke the direction, and

3.4.b

if the direction is revoked, whether to give a different direction.

3.5

The Bank must—

3.5.a

if no representations are made within that specified period, give the relevant
person written notice that the direction is confirmed, and

3.5.b

if representations are made, give the relevant person written notice of its
decision under sub-paragraph  (4) .

3.6

If the relevant person is aggrieved by the confirmation of the direction, the
person may refer the matter to the Upper Tribunal.

3.7

A notice under sub-paragraph  (5)(a)  or  (b)  confirming the direction must—

3.7.a

inform the relevant person of the right to refer the matter to the Upper
Tribunal, and

3.7.b

indicate the procedure on such a reference.

3.8

A notice given under sub-paragraph  (5)(b)  of a decision by the Bank to give
a different direction must comply with sub-paragraph  (1) .

3.9

The Bank must prepare and publish a statement of its policy with respect to
the giving of directions under paragraph  2 .

3.10

The Bank may alter or replace a statement of policy published under this
paragraph.

3.11

The Bank must publish a statement as altered or replaced under sub-paragraph
(10) .

3.12

No directions may be given under paragraph  2  before the statement of policy
under sub-paragraph  (9)  has been published.

3.13

In this paragraph “ relevant person ” means—

3.13.a

a CCP, or

3.13.b

a parent of a CCP.

##### Resolution plans

###### Resolution plans

4

4.1

The Treasury may by regulations make provision requiring the Bank to create
and maintain a resolution plan for each CCP.

4.2

The following are examples of provision that regulations under sub-paragraph
(1)  may make—

4.2.a

provision specifying the information that must be contained in a resolution
plan (including provision enabling the Bank to specify such information);

4.2.b

provision requiring CCPs to give specified information to the Bank for the
purpose of the Bank creating and maintaining a resolution plan (including
provision enabling the Bank to specify the way in which such information is to
be given);

4.2.c

provision specifying the form of resolution plans (including provision
enabling the Bank to specify the form);

4.2.d

provision requiring the Bank to review resolution plans at specified
intervals;

4.2.e

provision requiring the Bank to provide specified information relating to a
review to specified persons;

4.2.f

provision requiring the Bank to give specified persons a copy of the
resolution plan and any revised plans (including provision about the way in
which a copy of a plan is to be given).

4.3

Regulations under this paragraph may provide for exemptions.

4.4

Regulations under this paragraph are subject to the negative procedure.

4.5

In this paragraph “ resolution plan ”, in relation to a CCP, means a document
setting out the actions that the Bank proposes to take in the event that the
CCP meets the conditions under paragraph  17  for the exercise of the
stabilisation powers.

##### Removal of directors and senior managers

###### Removal of directors and senior managers

5

5.1

If the Bank is satisfied that the conditions in paragraph  7 (1) and (2) are
met in relation to a CCP, the Bank may require the CCP to remove—

5.1.a

any person who is a director of the CCP;

5.1.b

any person who is a senior manager of the CCP.

5.2

If the Bank imposes a requirement under sub-paragraph  (1) , the Bank may also
require the CCP—

5.2.a

to replace a director or senior manager who has been removed, and

5.2.b

to take any step needed to give effect to the replacement, including, where
necessary, calling a general meeting of the CCP’s shareholders or, if the CCP
is an unincorporated association, its members.

5.3

If the Bank is satisfied that the condition in paragraph  7(5)  is met in
relation to a person who is a director of a CCP, the Bank may require that CCP
to remove that person from the board of directors.

5.4

Nothing in this Schedule affects the powers under Article 31 of EMIR or
paragraphs  45  and  58 .

###### Temporary manager

6

6.1

If the Bank is satisfied that the conditions in paragraph  7 (1), (2) and (4)
are met in relation to a CCP, the Bank may appoint a person to act (or more
than one persons to act jointly) as a temporary manager of that CCP.

6.2

A temporary manager may be appointed under sub-paragraph  (1) —

6.2.a

to replace the directors of a CCP where they have been removed in compliance
with a requirement imposed under paragraph  5 , or

6.2.b

to work with the directors of a CCP.

6.3

A temporary manager has the functions specified in the instrument of
appointment (see paragraph  9 ).

6.4

The functions which may be specified include (amongst other things)—

6.4.a

ascertaining the financial position of the CCP;

6.4.b

managing the business or part of the business of the CCP in order to preserve
or restore the financial position of the CCP;

6.4.c

taking measures to restore the prudent management of the CCP;

6.4.d

any functions of the directors.

6.5

The temporary manager may, with the consent of the Bank—

6.5.a

require the directors to call a general meeting of the shareholders, or in the
case of an unincorporated association, the members of the CCP, or

6.5.b

in the case where all of the directors have been removed in compliance with a
requirement imposed under paragraph  5 , call a general meeting of the
shareholders of the CCP or, if the CCP is an unincorporated association, the
members of the CCP.

6.6

The temporary manager may propose business for consideration at the general
meeting.

6.7

If the temporary manager is being appointed to work with the directors, the
Bank—

6.7.a

may require the directors not to exercise specified functions during the
period of appointment;

6.7.b

may require the directors to consult the temporary manager, or obtain the
consent of the temporary manager, before taking such decisions or actions as
may be specified in the requirement.

###### Paragraphs 

7

7.1

The condition in this sub-paragraph is met if—

7.1.a

there is a significant deterioration in the financial situation of the CCP, or

7.1.b

there is a serious infringement by the CCP of—

7.1.b.i

a relevant requirement, or

7.1.b.ii

its rules.

7.2

The condition in this sub-paragraph is met if it is not reasonably likely that
the deterioration would be reversed or the infringement would be brought to an
end by any measure which could be taken by the Bank under the provisions
listed in sub-paragraph  (3) .

7.3

The provisions mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2)  are—

7.3.a

section 296 or 296A of FSMA 2000 (power to direct CCPs);

7.3.b

paragraph  13  (power to impose stay on distributions).

7.4

The condition in this sub-paragraph is met if the imposition of one or more
requirements under paragraph  5  (removal and replacement of directors and
senior managers) would not be sufficient to reverse the deterioration or bring
the infringement to an end.

7.5

The condition in this sub-paragraph is met in relation to a director of a CCP,
if the director—

7.5.a

is no longer of sufficiently good repute to perform their duties,

7.5.b

no longer possesses sufficient knowledge, skills, experience, honesty,
integrity or independence of mind to perform their duties, or

7.5.c

is no longer able to commit sufficient time to perform their duties.

7.6

For the purposes of this paragraph—

7.6.a

“ relevant requirement ” means a requirement imposed by or under—

7.6.a.i

FSMA 2000;

7.6.a.ii

EMIR;

7.6.a.iii

another enactment (or provision of an enactment) specified in regulations made
by the Treasury;

7.6.b

a deterioration in the financial situation of a CCP is significant if the
deterioration places the CCP at risk of meeting condition 1 under paragraph
17 .

7.7

Regulations under this paragraph are subject to the negative procedure.

###### Temporary manager: further provisions in relation to the appointment

8

8.1

Before appointing a person to act as a temporary manager, the Bank must be
satisfied that the person—

8.1.a

has the qualifications, ability and knowledge to carry out the functions to be
given to the temporary manager, and

8.1.b

would not be subject to a conflict of interest as a result of the appointment.

8.2

A person may not be appointed to act as a temporary manager for a period
longer than one year, but is eligible for re-appointment (or further re-
appointment) if paragraph  6 (1) continues to apply in relation to the CCP.

8.3

The Bank may vary the terms of the appointment of a temporary manager, or
remove the temporary manager, at any time.

8.4

A temporary manager is not liable for damages in respect of anything done in
good faith for the purposes of or in connection with the functions of the
appointment (subject to section 8 of the Human Rights Act 1998).

###### Temporary manager: instrument of appointment

9

9.1

The power in paragraph 6(1) is to be exercised by an instrument of
appointment.

9.2

The instrument of appointment must—

9.2.a

specify the functions of the temporary manager,

9.2.b

specify the date on which the appointment of the temporary manager has effect,

9.2.c

specify the period for which the temporary manager is appointed, and

9.2.d

make provision for the resignation and replacement of the person who is
appointed as the temporary manager.

9.3

The instrument of appointment may—

9.3.a

require the temporary manager to consult the Bank or other specified person
before exercising specified functions,

9.3.b

specify particular matters on which the Bank or other specified person must be
consulted, and

9.3.c

provide that the temporary manager is not to exercise specified functions
without the consent of the Bank or other specified person.

9.4

The instrument of appointment may require the temporary manager to make
reports to the Bank, at specified times or intervals, on—

9.4.a

the financial position of the CCP,

9.4.b

the actions taken by the temporary manager during the course of the temporary
manager‘s appointment, and

9.4.c

any other specified matters.

9.5

The instrument of appointment may provide for the payment of remuneration and
allowances to a temporary manager.

9.6

Provision under sub-paragraph  (5)  may provide that the amounts are—

9.6.a

to be paid by the Bank, or

9.6.b

to be determined by the Bank and paid by the CCP.

9.7

If a temporary manager—

9.7.a

is appointed to replace the directors of the CCP, or

9.7.b

is appointed to work with the directors of the CCP and has the power to
represent the CCP,

the Bank must publish the instrument of appointment on its website.

###### Right to refer matters to the Tribunal

10

10.1

A CCP which is aggrieved by one of the following may refer the matter to the
Tribunal—

10.1.a

the imposition of a requirement on that CCP under paragraph  5 , or

10.1.b

the appointment, or the terms of the appointment, of a person to act as a
temporary manager of that CCP under paragraph  6 .

10.2

A director or senior manager (or a former director or senior manager) of a CCP
who is aggrieved by the imposition of a requirement on that CCP under
paragraph  5  may refer the matter to the Tribunal.

10.3

A director (or a former director) of a CCP who is aggrieved by the imposition
of a requirement on that director under paragraph  6(7)  may refer the matter
to the Tribunal.

###### Removal of directors and senior managers and appointment of temporary manager: procedure

11

11.1

A requirement under paragraph  5  or  6(7)  or the appointment of a temporary
manager under paragraph  6(1)  may be expressed to take effect immediately or
on a specified date only if the Bank, having regard to the grounds for
imposing the requirement or making the appointment, reasonably considers that
it is necessary for the requirement or the appointment to take effect
immediately or on that date.

11.2

If the Bank proposes to impose a requirement on a CCP under paragraph  5  or
imposes such a requirement with immediate effect, it must give written notice—

11.2.a

to that CCP, and

11.2.b

to each of the directors or senior managers to whom the requirement relates.

11.3

If the Bank—

11.3.a

proposes to appoint a person to act as a temporary manager under paragraph  6
or to vary the terms on which such a person is appointed, or

11.3.b

makes such an appointment or variation with immediate effect,

the Bank must give written notice to the CCP.

11.4

If the Bank proposes to impose a requirement on the directors under paragraph
6(7) , or imposes such a requirement with immediate effect, the Bank must give
written notice to each director.

11.5

If, having considered any representations made by a person to whom notice (the
“original notice”) has been given (see paragraph  12 ), the Bank decides—

11.5.a

to impose the requirement, make the appointment or vary the terms of an
appointment in accordance with the original notice, or

11.5.b

not to rescind the imposition of any such requirement or the making of any
such appointment or variation which has already taken effect,

the Bank must give written notice to each person to whom the original notice
was given.

11.6

A written notice under sub-paragraph  (5)  must inform the person to whom it
is given of the right of that person to refer the matter to the Tribunal and
give an indication of the procedure on such a reference.

11.7

If, having considered any representations made by a person to whom the
original notice has been given (see paragraph  12 ), the Bank decides—

11.7.a

to impose a requirement, make an appointment or vary the terms of an
appointment in a way that is different from the requirement, appointment or
variation described in the original notice,

11.7.b

not to impose the requirement, make the appointment or vary the terms of an
appointment in accordance with the original notice, or

11.7.c

to rescind the imposition of any such requirement, or the making of any such
appointment or variation that has already taken effect,

the Bank must give written notice to each person to whom the original notice
was given.

###### Removal of directors and senior managers and appointment of temporary manager: notice requirements

12

12.1

A notice under paragraph  11(2)  must—

12.1.a

give details of the requirement,

12.1.b

identify each of the directors or senior managers to whom the requirement
relates (“the interested parties”),

12.1.c

give the Bank’s reasons for imposing the requirement—

12.1.c.i

in the case of a notice given to the CCP, in relation to each interested
party;

12.1.c.ii

in the case of a notice given to an interested party, in relation to that
interested party,

12.1.d

inform the CCP and the interested parties that each of them may make
representations to the Bank within such period as may be specified in the
notice (whether or not the matter has been referred to the Tribunal),

12.1.e

state when the requirement takes effect, and

12.1.f

inform the CCP and each of the interested parties of their right to refer the
matter to the Tribunal.

12.2

A notice given under paragraph  11(3)  must—

12.2.a

state when the appointment or variation takes effect, and be accompanied by
the instrument, or revised instrument, of appointment,

12.2.b

give the Bank’s reasons for making the appointment or variation,

12.2.c

inform the CCP that it may make representations to the Bank within such period
as may be specified in the notice (whether or not the matter has been referred
to the Tribunal), and

12.2.d

inform the CCP of its right to refer the matter to the Tribunal.

12.3

A notice given under paragraph  11(4)  must—

12.3.a

give details of the requirement,

12.3.b

give the Bank’s reasons for imposing the requirement,

12.3.c

state when the requirement takes effect,

12.3.d

inform the director that the director may make representations to the Bank
within such period as may be specified in the notice (whether or not the
matter has been referred to the Tribunal), and

12.3.e

inform the director of the director’s right to refer the matter to the
Tribunal.

12.4

The Bank may extend the period allowed by the notice given under paragraph
11(2) ,  (3)  or  (4)  for making representations.

12.5

A notice under paragraph  11(7)(a)  about the imposition of a requirement
under paragraph  5  must comply with sub-paragraph  (1) .

12.6

A notice under paragraph  11(7)(a)  about the appointment of a person as a
temporary manager or the variation of the terms of the appointment of a person
as a temporary manager must comply with sub-paragraph  (2) .

12.7

A notice under paragraph  11(7)(a)  about the imposition of a requirement
under paragraph  6(7)  must comply with sub-paragraph  (3) .

12.8

In this paragraph, any reference to “ appointment ” includes re-appointment.

###### Temporary restriction on remuneration

13

13.1

The Bank may by direction restrict or prohibit for a specified period
discretionary payments to specified employees of a CCP or specified
shareholders of a CCP.

13.2

The power under sub-paragraph  (1)  may be exercised only if—

13.2.a

a stabilisation power is not being exercised in relation to the CCP,

13.2.b

at least one of the conditions in sub-paragraph  (3)  is met, and

13.2.c

the condition in sub-paragraph  (4)  is met.

13.3

The conditions in this sub-paragraph are—

13.3.a

there is or is likely soon to be a significant deterioration in the financial
situation of the CCP (within the meaning given by paragraph  7(6) );

13.3.b

there is a material risk of a threat to the ability of the CCP to maintain
critical clearing services;

13.3.c

there is a risk of a significant disruption to the operation of the CCP;

13.3.d

the operation of the CCP poses a risk to the financial stability of the United
Kingdom.

13.4

The condition in this sub-paragraph is that the exercise of the power is
necessary or desirable having regard to the public interest in—

13.4.a

the stability of the UK financial system, or

13.4.b

the continuity of critical clearing services.

13.5

The Bank must prepare and publish a statement of its policy with respect to
the giving of directions under this paragraph.

13.6

The Bank may alter or replace a statement of policy published under this
paragraph.

13.7

The Bank must publish a statement as altered or replaced under sub-paragraph
(6) .

13.8

No directions may be given under this paragraph before the statement of policy
under sub-paragraph  (5)  has been published.

13.9

The specified period for the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1)  must not exceed 5
years.

13.10

Directions under this paragraph—

13.10.a

must be given in writing to the employees or shareholders that the directions
apply to;

13.10.b

may be varied or revoked.

13.11

In this paragraph “ discretionary payments ” means payments, made otherwise
than under a contractual obligation, of any of the following—

13.11.a

equity remuneration;

13.11.b

dividend payments;

13.11.c

share buy-backs;

13.11.d

variable remuneration including, where an employee is a senior manager,
bonuses, discretionary pension benefits and severance payments.

###### Restriction on remuneration: review and revocation

14

14.1

This paragraph applies where a direction has been given under paragraph  13(1)
in relation to a CCP.

14.2

The Bank must, at least once every 3 months after giving the direction, carry
out a review of whether the requirements for the exercise of the power
continue to be met.

14.3

If at any time the Bank becomes aware that the requirements for the exercise
of the power cease to be met, the Bank must revoke the direction with
immediate effect.

14.4

The direction ceases to have effect if a stabilisation power is exercised in
respect of the CCP.

##### Special resolution action

###### Special resolution objectives

15

15.1

This paragraph sets out the special resolution objectives.

15.2

The Bank must have regard to the special resolution objectives in using, or
considering the use of, the stabilisation powers.

15.3

Objective 1 is to protect and enhance the stability of the UK financial
system, including in particular by—

15.3.a

preventing contagion (including contagion to market infrastructures), and

15.3.b

maintaining market discipline.

15.4

Objective 2 is to protect and enhance public confidence in the stability of
the UK financial system.

15.5

Objective 3 is to maintain the continuity of central counterparty clearing
services.

15.6

Objective 4 is to protect public funds.

15.7

Objective 5 is to avoid interfering with property rights in contravention of a
Convention right (within the meaning of the Human Rights Act 1998).

15.8

The order in which the objectives are listed in this paragraph is not
significant; they are to be balanced as appropriate in each case.

15.9

In this paragraph, “market infrastructures” include recognised investment
exchanges, recognised clearing houses and recognised CSDs, within the meaning
of section 285 of FSMA 2000.

###### Code of Practice

16

16.1

The Treasury must issue a code of practice about the use of the stabilisation
powers.

16.2

The code may, in particular, provide guidance on—

16.2.a

how the special resolution objectives are to be understood and achieved,

16.2.b

the choice between different options,

16.2.c

the information to be provided in the course of a consultation under this
Schedule,

16.2.d

how to determine whether Condition 2 in paragraph  17  is met,

16.2.e

how to determine whether the test for the use of stabilisation powers under
paragraph  19  is satisfied,

16.2.f

paragraphs  89  and  92 , and

16.2.g

compensation, including how the Treasury intend to satisfy the requirement
under paragraph  87(3) .

16.3

See also paragraph  29  which requires the inclusion in the code of certain
matters about bridge central counterparties.

16.4

The Treasury may revise and re-issue the code of practice.

16.5

Before issuing or re-issuing the code of practice the Treasury must consult
the Bank, the FCA and the PRA.

16.6

The Bank must have regard to the code of practice.

16.7

As soon as is reasonably practicable after issuing or re-issuing the code of
practice the Treasury must lay a copy before Parliament.

###### General conditions

17

17.1

A stabilisation power may be exercised in respect of a CCP only if the Bank is
satisfied that each of the following conditions is met.

17.2

Condition 1 is that the CCP is failing or likely to fail.

17.3

Condition 2 is that—

17.3.a

having regard to timing and other relevant circumstances, it is not reasonably
likely that (ignoring the stabilisation powers) action will be taken by or in
respect of the CCP that will result in Condition 1 ceasing to be met, or

17.3.b

in the Bank’s assessment, the action that may be taken by or in respect of the
CCP for the purpose of ensuring that Condition 1 is no longer met might have
an adverse impact on the stability of the UK financial system.

17.4

Condition 3 is that the exercise of the power is necessary having regard to
the public interest in the advancement of one or more of the special
resolution objectives.

17.5

Condition 4 is that one or more of the special resolution objectives would not
be met to the same extent by the winding up of the CCP.

17.6

For the purposes of Condition 1, a CCP is failing or likely to fail if one or
more of the following apply—

17.6.a

the CCP is failing or is likely to fail to meet the recognition requirements
(within the meaning of section 286 of FSMA 2000);

17.6.b

the value of the assets of the CCP is less than the amount of its liabilities;

17.6.c

the CCP is unable to pay its debts or other liabilities as they fall due;

17.6.d

any of paragraphs  (a)  to  (c)  will, in the near future, apply to the CCP;

17.6.e

extraordinary public financial support is required in respect of the CCP and
sub-paragraph  (9)  does not apply to that support.

17.7

The Bank may treat Condition 1 as met if satisfied that it would be met but
for the withdrawal or possible withdrawal of critical clearing services by the
CCP.

17.8

The Bank must treat Conditions 1 and 2(a) as met if satisfied that those
conditions would be met but for financial assistance provided by—

17.8.a

the Treasury, or

17.8.b

the Bank (disregarding ordinary market assistance offered by the Bank on its
usual terms).

17.9

This sub-paragraph applies where, in order to remedy a serious disturbance in
the economy of the United Kingdom and preserve financial stability, the
extraordinary public financial support takes either of the following forms—

17.9.a

a State guarantee to back liquidity facilities provided by the Bank, or

17.9.b

a State guarantee of newly issued liabilities.

17.10

Before determining that Conditions 2, 3 and 4 are met the Bank must consult—

17.10.a

if the CCP is a PRA-authorised person, the PRA,

17.10.b

the FCA, and

17.10.c

the Treasury.

###### Effect on other group members

18

Where the Bank is considering the exercise of a stabilisation power in respect
of a CCP which is a member of a group, the Bank must have regard to—

18.a

the need to minimise the effect of the exercise of the power on other
undertakings in the same group, and

18.b

the potential effect of the exercise of the power on the financial stability
of countries other than the United Kingdom (particularly those countries in
which any member of that group is operating).

###### Specific conditions: financial assistance cases

19

19.1

In a financial assistance case, the Bank may exercise a stabilisation power in
respect of the CCP concerned in accordance with paragraph  27 ,  29  or  30
only if satisfied that the condition in sub-paragraph  (3)  is met.

19.2

“ Financial assistance case ” means a case where the Treasury notify the Bank
that they have provided financial assistance in respect of a CCP for the
purpose of resolving or reducing a serious threat to the stability of the UK
financial system.

19.3

The condition is that—

19.3.a

the Treasury have given a recommendation to the Bank to exercise the
stabilisation power on the grounds that it is necessary in order to protect
the public interest, and

19.3.b

the Bank considers that the exercise of the stabilisation power is an
appropriate way to provide that protection.

19.4

The condition in this paragraph is in addition to the conditions in paragraph
17 .

###### Resolution liaison panel

20

20.1

The Treasury must make arrangements for a panel to advise the Treasury about
the effect of the special resolution regime on—

20.1.a

CCPs,

20.1.b

persons with whom CCPs do business, and

20.1.c

the financial markets.

20.2

In particular, the panel may advise the Treasury about—

20.2.a

the exercise of powers to make statutory instruments under or by virtue of
this Schedule, (excluding the stabilisation powers and regulations under
paragraphs  87  and  153 ),

20.2.b

the code of practice under paragraph  16 , and

20.2.c

anything else referred to the panel by the Treasury.

20.3

The Treasury must ensure that the panel includes—

20.3.a

a member appointed by the Treasury,

20.3.b

a member appointed by the Bank,

20.3.c

a member appointed by the PRA,

20.3.d

a member appointed by the FCA,

20.3.e

one or more persons who in the Treasury’s opinion represent the interests of
CCPs,

20.3.f

one or more persons who in the Treasury’s opinion represent the interests of
clearing members of CCPs,

20.3.g

one or more persons who in the Treasury’s opinion have expertise in law
relating to the UK financial system, and

20.3.h

one or more persons who in the Treasury’s opinion have expertise in insolvency
law and practice.

###### Restrictions on use of certain resolution powers

21

21.1

Where the Bank has exercised the first stabilisation option (private sector
purchaser) in respect of a CCP it may only exercise the relevant resolution
powers in relation to the residual CCP.

21.2

Where the Bank has exercised the third stabilisation option (transfer of
ownership) in respect of a CCP it may only exercise the relevant resolution
powers in respect of the CCP where the transferee under paragraph  30  is—

21.2.a

the Bank,

21.2.b

a company wholly owned by the Bank or the Treasury, or

21.2.c

a nominee of the Treasury.

21.3

In this paragraph—

      “ relevant resolution powers ” means any of the resolution powers under
paragraphs  27  to  38 ;           the “ residual CCP ” means the CCP all or
part of whose business has been transferred in accordance with paragraph
27(2) .

###### Pre-resolution valuation

22

22.1

Before the Bank exercises a stabilisation power in respect of a CCP, it must
ensure that the assets and liabilities of the CCP are valued.

22.2

The purpose of a valuation carried out under sub-paragraph  (1)  is to—

22.2.a

inform the decision as to—

22.2.a.i

whether the conditions for the exercise of a stabilisation power are
satisfied,

22.2.a.ii

which stabilisation option should be employed,

22.2.a.iii

the extent to which any liabilities should be cancelled, modified, converted
or deferred through the use of a write-down instrument,

22.2.a.iv

the extent to which any securities should be cancelled, diluted, modified,
converted or deferred through the use of a write-down instrument,

22.2.a.v

what assets, liabilities or securities (if any) are to be transferred by a
property transfer instrument, share transfer instrument or write-down
instrument, and

22.2.a.vi

the value of any consideration to be paid to the CCP or the owners of the
securities for any assets, liabilities or securities so transferred, and

22.2.b

ensure that the full extent of any losses on the assets of that CCP are
appreciated at the time that the Bank exercises a stabilisation power.

22.3

Unless sub-paragraph  (4)  applies, the Bank must arrange for the appointment
of an independent valuer in accordance with paragraph  24  to carry out a
valuation for the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) .

22.4

Where the Bank considers that the urgency of the case makes it appropriate to
exercise the stabilisation power before a valuation can be carried out by a
person appointed in accordance with sub-paragraph  (3) , the Bank may carry
out a provisional valuation of the assets and liabilities of the CCP for the
purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) .

22.5

In carrying out a valuation required under sub-paragraph  (1) , the person
carrying out the valuation must—

22.5.a

make prudent assumptions as to possible rates of default and the severity of
losses suffered by the CCP,

22.5.b

disregard potential financial assistance which may be provided by the Bank or
the Treasury after the Bank has exercised the stabilisation power (except for
ordinary market assistance offered by the Bank on its usual terms),

22.5.c

take account of the fact that the Bank and the Treasury may charge interest or
fees in respect of any loans or guarantees provided to the CCP after the Bank
has exercised the stabilisation power,

22.5.d

apply any relevant methodology specified in regulations made under this
paragraph.

22.6

A provisional valuation carried out under sub-paragraph  (4)  must in
particular make provision in respect of additional losses by the CCP in
accordance with any regulations made under this paragraph.

22.7

A valuation under sub-paragraph  (1)  must be accompanied by—

22.7.a

a balance sheet of the CCP as at the date of the valuation,

22.7.b

a report on the financial position of the CCP,

22.7.c

an analysis and an estimate of the accounting value of the assets of the CCP,

22.7.d

a list of the outstanding liabilities of the CCP (including any off-balance
sheet liabilities), with the creditors subdivided into classes according to
the priority their claims would receive in insolvency proceedings, and

22.7.e

an estimate of the amount that each class of creditors and shareholders might
be expected to receive if the CCP went into insolvent liquidation.

22.8

Where appropriate, the information in sub-paragraph  (7)(c)  may be
supplemented by an analysis and estimate of the value of the assets and
liabilities of the CCP on a market value basis.

22.9

Where a provisional valuation is carried out under sub-paragraph  (4) , the
Bank need only comply with sub-paragraph  (7)  as far as it is reasonable to
do so in the circumstances.

22.10

The Treasury may by regulations make provision for the purposes of a valuation
under this paragraph specifying—

22.10.a

the methodology for assessing the value of the assets and liabilities of a
CCP;

22.10.b

the methodology for calculating and including a buffer for additional losses
in the provisional valuation.

22.11

Before making regulations under sub-paragraph  (10)  the Treasury must consult
the Bank.

22.12

Regulations under this paragraph are subject to the negative procedure.

###### Replacement of Bank’s provisional valuation

23

23.1

Where the Bank has carried out a provisional valuation under paragraph  22
before exercising a stabilisation power, the Bank must arrange for the
appointment of an independent valuer in accordance with paragraph  24  to
carry out a full valuation in accordance with this paragraph as soon as
reasonably practicable.

23.2

The purpose of the valuation carried out under sub-paragraph  (1)  is to—

23.2.a

ensure the full extent of any losses on the assets of the CCP is recognised in
the accounting records of the CCP, and

23.2.b

inform a decision by the Bank as to whether—

23.2.b.i

additional consideration should be paid by a bridge central counterparty for
any property, rights or liabilities transferred by a property transfer
instrument, or securities transferred by a share transfer instrument, or

23.2.b.ii

the Bank should exercise the power under paragraph  26  to increase or
reinstate any liability which has been reduced, cancelled or deferred by a
write-down instrument.

23.3

A valuation carried out under sub-paragraph  (1)  must comply with sub-
paragraph  (5)  of paragraph  22  and be accompanied by the information
required in sub-paragraph  (7)  of that paragraph.

###### Independent valuer: valuation under paragraph 

24

24.1

The Bank must make arrangements for the appointment of a person to act as an
independent valuer for the purposes of a valuation to be conducted under
paragraph  22  or  23 .

24.2

The Bank may require the CCP to which the valuation relates to reimburse the
Bank for costs it incurs in relation to the independent valuer (including
remuneration and allowances paid to the valuer and the valuer’s staff).

24.3

A person may not be appointed as an independent valuer under sub-paragraph
(1)  unless the Bank is satisfied that the person is independent from the Bank
and the CCP to which the valuation relates.

24.4

An independent valuer is to hold and vacate office in accordance with the
terms of the appointment.

24.5

An independent valuer may be removed from office only on the grounds of
incapacity or serious misconduct.

24.6

In the event of the death of an independent valuer, or an independent valuer
being removed from office or resigning, a new independent valuer must be
appointed by the Bank in accordance with this paragraph.

###### Independent valuer: supplemental

25

25.1

An independent valuer may do anything necessary or desirable for the purposes
of or in connection with the performance of the functions of the office.

25.2

The Treasury may by regulations confer specific functions on independent
valuers; in particular, the regulations may—

25.2.a

enable an independent valuer to apply to a court or tribunal for an order
requiring the provision of information or the giving of oral or written
evidence;

25.2.b

enable or require independent valuers to publish, disclose or withhold
information.

25.3

Provision under sub-paragraph  (2)  may—

25.3.a

confer a discretion on independent valuers;

25.3.b

confer jurisdiction on a court or tribunal;

25.3.c

make provision about oaths, expenses and other procedural matters relating to
the giving of evidence or the provision of information;

25.3.d

make provision about enforcement.

25.4

An independent valuer may appoint staff.

25.5

The Treasury may by regulations make provision about the procedure to be
followed by independent valuers.

25.6

Independent valuers (and their staff) are neither servants nor agents of the
Crown (and, in particular, are not civil servants).

25.7

Records of an independent valuer are public records for the purposes of the
Public Records Act 1958.

25.8

Regulations under this paragraph are subject to the negative procedure.

###### Consequences of a replacement valuation

26

26.1

Where the independent valuation carried out under paragraph  23(1)  produces a
higher valuation of the net asset value of the CCP than a provisional
valuation carried out under paragraph  22(4) , the Bank may—

26.1.a

modify any liability of the CCP which has been reduced, deferred or cancelled
by a write-down instrument so as to increase or reinstate that liability, or

26.1.b

instruct a bridge central counterparty to pay additional consideration—

26.1.b.i

to the CCP for any property, rights or liabilities transferred to the bridge
central counterparty by a property transfer instrument, or

26.1.b.ii

to the previous holders of securities issued by the CCP for any securities
transferred to the bridge central counterparty by a share transfer instrument.

26.2

The power in sub-paragraph  (1) (a)—

26.2.a

may not be exercised so as to increase the value of the liability beyond the
value it would have had if the write-down instrument which reduced, cancelled
or deferred it had not been made, and

26.2.b

must be exercised by a resolution instrument (whether or not that instrument
contains any other provision authorised by this Schedule).

###### Private sector purchaser

27

27.1

The first stabilisation option is to sell all or part of the business of the
CCP to a commercial purchaser.

27.2

For that purpose the Bank may make—

27.2.a

one or more share transfer instruments;

27.2.b

one or more property transfer instruments.

###### Private sector purchaser: marketing

28

28.1

Subject to sub-paragraph  (4)  and  (5) , the Bank must make arrangements for
marketing—

28.1.a

any securities issued by the CCP which the Bank intends to transfer by a share
transfer instrument under paragraph  27(2)(a) , or

28.1.b

any property, rights or liabilities of the CCP which the Bank intends to
transfer by a property transfer instrument under paragraph  27(2)(b) .

28.2

The arrangements under sub-paragraph  (1)  must—

28.2.a

be as transparent as possible having regard to the circumstances and the need
to maintain financial stability;

28.2.b

ensure there is no conflict of interest;

28.2.c

take account of the need for the Bank to act quickly to address the situation
where a CCP is failing or likely to fail;

28.2.d

aim at maximising, as far as possible, the sale price for the property, rights
or liabilities involved.

28.3

The arrangements under sub-paragraph  (1)  must not—

28.3.a

materially misrepresent the securities, property, rights or liabilities which
the Bank intends to transfer;

28.3.b

favour or discriminate between potential purchasers or grant an unfair
advantage to a potential purchaser.

28.4

Sub-paragraph  (1)  does not apply if the Bank considers that complying with
that sub-paragraph would undermine one or more of the special resolution
objectives.

28.5

In particular sub-paragraph  (1)  does not apply if the Bank considers that—

28.5.a

there is a material threat to financial stability in the United Kingdom
arising from or aggravated by the failure or likely failure of the CCP, and

28.5.b

complying with sub-paragraph  (1)  would undermine the effectiveness of the
first stabilisation option in addressing that threat or achieving the
objective in paragraph  15(4) .

###### Bridge central counterparty

29

29.1

The second stabilisation option is to transfer all or part of the business of
the CCP to a company which meets the requirements of sub-paragraph  (2)  (a
“bridge central counterparty”).

29.2

Those requirements are that the company—

29.2.a

is wholly or partially owned by the Bank,

29.2.b

is controlled by the Bank, and

29.2.c

is created for the purposes of receiving a transfer by virtue of this
paragraph with a view to maintaining access to critical clearing services and
(in due course) selling the CCP or its business.

29.3

For that purpose the Bank may make—

29.3.a

one or more property transfer instruments;

29.3.b

one or more share transfer instruments.

29.4

The code of practice under paragraph  16  must include provision about the
management and control of bridge central counterparties including, in
particular, provision about—

29.4.a

setting objectives,

29.4.b

the content of the articles of association,

29.4.c

the content of reports under paragraph  114 ,

29.4.d

different arrangements for management and control at different stages, and

29.4.e

eventual disposal.

29.5

The Bank must, without delay, take all necessary steps to wind up the bridge
central counterparty if—

29.5.a

all or substantially all of the bridge central counterparty’s assets, rights
and liabilities have been transferred to a third party, or

29.5.b

following a transfer to the bridge central counterparty under this paragraph,
no further transfer to the bridge central counterparty is made under this
paragraph during the relevant post-transfer period.

29.6

Sub-paragraph  (5)  does not apply if the bridge central counterparty—

29.6.a

has merged with another entity,

29.6.b

has ceased to meet the requirements of sub-paragraph  (2)(a)  or  (b) , or

29.6.c

has already been wound up.

29.7

“ The relevant post-transfer period ” means the period of two years beginning
with the day of the transfer mentioned in sub-paragraph  (5)(a) , subject to
any extension under sub-paragraph  (8) .

29.8

The Bank may extend (or further extend) the relevant post-transfer period by
one year if it is satisfied that the extension—

29.8.a

would support one or more of the outcomes mentioned in sub-paragraph  (5)(a)
or  (6)(a) ,  (b)  or  (c) , or

29.8.b

is necessary to ensure the continuity of critical clearing services.

29.9

Where property, rights or liabilities are first transferred by property
transfer instrument to a bridge central counterparty and later transferred
(whether or not by the exercise of a power under this Schedule) to another
company which is wholly owned by the Bank, that other company is an “onward
bridge central counterparty”.

29.10

An onward bridge central counterparty—

29.10.a

is a bridge central counterparty for the purposes of—

29.10.a.i

sub-paragraphs  (4)  to  (6) ,

29.10.a.ii

paragraph 34(6)(d),

29.10.a.iii

paragraph  110 ,

29.10.a.iv

paragraph  112 , and

29.10.a.v

paragraph  114(5) , but

29.10.b

is not a bridge central counterparty for the purposes of—

29.10.b.i

paragraph  52 ,

29.10.b.ii

paragraph  69 , and

29.10.b.iii

paragraph  114(1) .

###### Transfer of ownership

30

30.1

The third stabilisation option is to transfer ownership of the CCP to any
person other than a bridge central counterparty or a commercial purchaser.

30.2

For that purpose the Bank may make one or more share transfer instruments.

###### Tear-up power

31

31.1

The fourth stabilisation option is to make one or more tear-up instruments for
the purpose of ensuring that the CCP has a matched book.

31.2

A tear-up instrument is an instrument that makes provision terminating one or
more contracts held by the CCP with clearing members.

31.3

Where the Bank exercises the power under sub-paragraph  (1) , it must as soon
as reasonably practicable determine the value of the terminated contract.

31.4

On the basis of the determination under sub-paragraph  (3)  the Bank must as
soon as reasonably practicable either—

31.4.a

require the CCP to make a commercially reasonable payment, representing the
value of the terminated contract, to the clearing member who is a party to the
contract, or

31.4.b

require the clearing member who is a party to the contract to make a
commercially reasonable payment, representing the value of the terminated
contract, to the CCP.

31.5

The Bank must within 12 months of this paragraph coming into force publish a
statement of policy as to how it determines what a commercially reasonable
payment is for the purpose of complying with sub-paragraph  (4) .

31.6

The Bank may alter or replace a statement of policy published under this
paragraph.

31.7

The Bank must publish a statement as altered or replaced under sub-paragraph
(6) .

31.8

For the purposes of this paragraph, a CCP has a matched book when the sum of
the financial obligations owed by the CCP to its clearing members is equal to
the sum of the financial obligations owed to the CCP by its clearing members.

###### Cash call power

32

32.1

The fifth stabilisation option is to make one or more cash call instruments.

32.2

A cash call instrument is an instrument that makes provision requiring one or
more clearing members of the CCP to pay an amount in cash specified in the
instrument to the CCP.

32.3

The Treasury may by regulations—

32.3.a

make provision for calculating the maximum cash amount that may be specified
for the purposes of sub-paragraph  (2) ;

32.3.b

specify circumstances in which the Bank may require a CCP to use specified
funds of specified clearing members to satisfy all or part of that member’s
obligations under sub-paragraph  (2) .

32.4

The power under sub-paragraph  (1)  does not apply to a clearing member—

32.4.a

which is an interoperable CCP,

32.4.b

which falls within Article 1(4) or (5) of EMIR, or

32.4.c

in relation to which a direction under regulation 3(1)(f) of the Equivalence
Determinations for Financial Services and Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment
etc) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/541 ) is in force.

32.5

Regulations under this paragraph are subject to the negative procedure.

###### Power to reduce variation margin payments

33

33.1

The sixth stabilisation option is to make one or more variation instruments.

33.2

A variation instrument is an instrument that makes provision to reduce or
cancel a variation margin payment that a CCP would have otherwise paid to a
clearing member of the CCP.

33.3

The power under this paragraph may be exercised only for the purpose of
recovering losses arising as a result of a clearing member defaulting on the
member’s obligations to the CCP.

33.4

The power under sub-paragraph  (1)  does not apply to a clearing member—

33.4.a

which falls within Article 1(4) or (5) of EMIR, or

33.4.b

in relation to which a direction under regulation 3(1)(f) of the Equivalence
Determinations for Financial Services and Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment
etc) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/541 ) is in force.

33.5

In this paragraph, a “ variation margin payment ” means a payment reflecting
an increase in the market value of a clearing member’s position in the market.

###### Write-down power

34

34.1

The seventh stabilisation option is for the Bank to make one or more write-
down instruments.

34.2

A write-down instrument is an instrument that makes any of the following
provision (or any combination of the following)—

34.2.a

provision cancelling an unsecured liability owed by the CCP;

34.2.b

provision modifying or changing the form of an unsecured liability owed by the
CCP;

34.2.c

provision that a contract under which the CCP has an unsecured liability is to
have effect as if a specified right had been exercised under it;

34.2.d

provision under paragraph  35(1) .

34.3

The power under this paragraph may be exercised only for the purpose of
recovering losses arising otherwise than as a result of a clearing member
defaulting on the member’s obligations to the CCP.

34.4

The power under sub-paragraph  (2)  may not be exercised so as to affect the
following liabilities—

34.4.a

liabilities to employees or workers, including liabilities owed to a pension
scheme in respect of those persons;

34.4.b

liabilities to commercial or trade creditors arising from the provision to the
CCP of goods or services that are critical to the continuity of the CCP’s
critical clearing services;

34.4.c

HMRC debts which are preferential debts within the meaning of section 386 of
the Insolvency Act 1986;

34.4.d

liabilities to designated systems, operators of designated systems, or
participants in such systems to the extent that the liabilities arise from
their participation in the system;

34.4.e

liabilities to interoperable CCPs;

34.4.f

liabilities to central banks;

34.4.g

liabilities to clearing members so far as these relate to initial margin
requirements;

34.4.h

liabilities to small enterprises.

34.5

The reference to modifying a liability owed by the CCP includes a reference to
modifying the terms (or the effect of the terms) of a contract under which the
CCP has a liability.

34.6

The reference to changing the form of a liability owed by the CCP includes,
for example—

34.6.a

converting an instrument under which a CCP owes a liability from one form or
class to another,

34.6.b

replacing such an instrument with another instrument of a different form or
class,

34.6.c

creating a new security (of any form or class) in connection with the
modification of such an instrument, or

34.6.d

converting those liabilities into securities issued by the CCP or a bridge
central counterparty or UK parent of the CCP.

34.7

The Treasury may by regulations amend sub-paragraph (4) by—

34.7.a

adding to the list of liabilities;

34.7.b

amending or omitting any liability listed.

34.8

Regulations under this paragraph are subject to the affirmative procedure.

34.9

In this paragraph—

      “ designated system ” has the meaning given by regulation 2 of the
Financial Markets and Insolvency (Settlement Finality) Regulations 1999 ( S.I.
1999/2979 ) as amended from time to time;           “ initial margin
requirements ” means margins provided by clearing members to a CCP to cover
the CCP’s potential future exposure in the event of default by those members;
“ small enterprise ” means an enterprise which employs fewer than 50 people
and whose annual turnover or annual balance sheet total does not exceed £10
million.

###### Powers in relation to securities

35

35.1

A write-down instrument may—

35.a

cancel, transfer, dilute or modify any securities to which this sub-paragraph
applies;

35.b

convert any such securities from one form or class into another.

35.2

Sub-paragraph  (1)  applies to securities issued by the CCP that fall within
class 1 in paragraph  40 .

35.3

A write-down instrument may—

35.3.a

make provision with respect to rights attaching to securities issued by the
CCP;

35.3.b

provide for the listing of securities issued by the CCP to be discontinued or
suspended;

35.3.c

provide for the listing or admission to trading on a regulated market of
securities in class 1 (and related class 3 securities) created in accordance
with that or any other write-down instrument;

35.3.d

provide for the listing or admission to trading on a regulated market of
existing securities in class 2 modified by that or any other write-down
instrument  ....

35.4

The reference in sub-paragraph  (1)  to converting securities from one form or
class into another includes creating a new security in connection with the
modification of an existing security.

35.5

In sub-paragraph  (3)  any reference to a class of securities is to be
construed in accordance with paragraph  40 .

35.6

The provision that may be made under sub-paragraph  (3)(a)  includes, for
example—

35.6.a

provision that specified rights attaching to securities are to be treated as
having been exercised;

35.6.b

provision that the Bank is to be treated as authorised to exercise specified
rights attaching to securities;

35.6.c

provision that specified rights attaching to securities may not be exercised
for a period specified in the instrument.

35.7

In sub-paragraph  (3) —

35.7.a

the reference to “listing” is to listing under section 74 of FSMA 2000, and

35.7.b

“ regulated market ” has the meaning given in section 103(1) of FSMA 2000.

35.8

Where the listing of securities is suspended in accordance with a write-down
instrument, those securities are to be treated for the purposes of section 96
of, and paragraph 23(6) of Schedule 1ZA to, FSMA 2000 as still being listed.

35.9

The provision that may be made under this paragraph in relation to any
securities is in addition to any provision that the Bank may have power to
make in relation to them under paragraph  34 .

###### Report on provisions in write-down instrument

36

36.1

This paragraph applies to a relevant provision in a write-down instrument.

36.2

The Bank must report to the Chancellor of the Exchequer stating the reasons
why that provision has been made in the case of the securities or liabilities
concerned.

36.3

If the provision departs from the insolvency treatment principles, the report
must state the reasons why it does so.

36.4

The insolvency treatment principles are that where an instrument includes a
relevant provision—

36.4.a

the provision made by the instrument must be consistent with treating existing
claims in respect of the CCP’s shares and all the liabilities of the CCP in
accordance with the priority they would enjoy on a liquidation, and

36.4.b

any creditors who would have equal priority on a liquidation are to bear
losses on an equal footing with each other.

36.5

A report must comply with any other requirements as to content that may be
specified by the Treasury.

36.6

A report must be made as soon as reasonably practicable after the making of
the instrument to which it relates.

36.7

The Chancellor of the Exchequer must lay a copy of each report under sub-
paragraph  (2)  before Parliament.

36.8

In this paragraph a “ relevant provision ” means a provision falling within
paragraph  34(2) .

###### Priority between creditors

37

37.1

The Treasury may, for the purpose of ensuring that the treatment of any claims
in respect of a CCP’s shares or any liabilities in any write-down instrument
is aligned to an appropriate degree with the treatment of claims and
liabilities on an insolvency, by regulations specify matters or principles to
which the Bank is to be required to have regard in making any such instrument.

37.2

Regulations under this paragraph may for example—

37.2.a

specify the insolvency treatment principles (as defined in paragraph  36(4) )
or alternative principles;

37.2.b

specify the meaning of “insolvency” for one or more purposes of the
regulations.

37.3

Regulations under this paragraph may amend paragraph  36(4) .

37.4

Regulations under this paragraph are subject to the affirmative procedure.

###### Power to take control

38

38.1

The eighth stabilisation option is for the Bank to make one or more
instruments of control.

38.2

An instrument of control is an instrument that makes any of the following
provision —

38.2.a

provision transferring any voting rights exercisable by shareholders of the
CCP or, if the CCP is an unincorporated association, members of the CCP to the
Bank for a specified period;

38.2.b

provision transferring specified powers, rights, duties or liabilities of the
directors or senior managers of the CCP to the Bank for a specified period.

38.3

Provision made under sub-paragraph  (2)  may for example include—

38.3.a

provision for exemptions or applying modifications in relation to any powers,
rights, duties or liabilities transferred;

38.3.b

provision for the Bank to exercise such powers, rights, duties or liabilities
under the CCP’s rules as may be specified in the instrument;

38.3.c

provision for the Bank to exercise such powers, rights, duties or liabilities
in relation to any contracts that the CCP is a party to as may be specified in
the instrument.

###### Shadow directors etc

39

39.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank uses one or more of the stabilisation
options mentioned in paragraph 1(3) in respect of a CCP unless the CCP has
ceased to be subject to the exercise of any stabilisation power mentioned in
paragraph 1(4).

39.2

A relevant person is not to be treated in relation to the CCP—

39.2.a

as a shadow director for the purposes of the relevant enactments,

39.2.b

as a person who discharges managerial responsibilities for the purposes of
those enactments (unless that person has been appointed as a director or a
senior manager), or

39.2.c

as a director within the meaning of section 417(1)(b) of FSMA 2000 (a person
in accordance with whose directions or instructions the directors of a body
corporate are accustomed to act).

39.3

In this paragraph—

      “ relevant enactment ” means—         the Companies Act 2006;
the Insolvency Act 1986;           the Company Directors Disqualification Act
1986;           FSMA 2000;           the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order
1989 ( S.I. 1989/2405 (N.I. 19) );           the Company Directors
Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order 2002 ( S.I. 2002/3150 (N.I. 4) );
“ relevant person ” means—         the Bank,           persons who are
employed by, or act on behalf of, the Bank, and           a temporary manager
appointed under paragraph 6 of this Schedule.

###### Interpretation: “securities”

40

40.1

In this Schedule “ securities ” includes anything falling within any of the
following classes.

40.2

Class 1: shares and stock.

40.3

Class 2: debentures, including—

40.3.a

debenture stock,

40.3.b

loan stock,

40.3.c

bonds,

40.3.d

certificates of deposit, and

40.3.e

any other instrument creating or acknowledging a debt.

40.4

Class 3: warrants or other instruments that entitle the holder to acquire
anything in Class 1 or 2.

###### Share transfer instrument

41

41.1

A share transfer instrument is for purposes of this Schedule an instrument
which—

41.1.a

provides for securities issued by a specified CCP to be transferred;

41.1.b

makes other provision for the purposes of, or in connection with, the transfer
of securities issued by a specified CCP (whether or not the transfer has been
or is to be effected by that instrument, by another share transfer instrument
or otherwise).

41.2

A share transfer instrument may relate to—

41.2.a

specified securities, or

41.2.b

securities of a specified description.

###### Effect

42

42.1

In this paragraph “ transfer ” means a transfer provided for by a share
transfer instrument.

42.2

A transfer takes effect by virtue of the instrument (and in accordance with
its provisions as to timing or other ancillary matters).

42.3

A transfer takes effect despite any restriction arising by virtue of contract
or legislation or in any other way.

42.4

In sub-paragraph  (3)  “ restriction ” includes—

42.4.a

any restriction, inability or incapacity affecting what can or cannot be
assigned or transferred (whether generally or by a particular person), and

42.4.b

a requirement for consent (by any name).

42.5

A share transfer instrument may provide for a transfer to take effect free
from any trust, liability or other encumbrance (and may include provision
about their extinguishment).

42.6

A share transfer instrument may extinguish rights to acquire securities
falling within Class 1 or 2 in paragraph  40 .

###### Continuity

43

43.1

A share transfer instrument may provide for a transferee to be treated for any
purpose connected with the transfer as the same person as the transferor.

43.2

A share transfer instrument may provide for agreements made or other things
done by or in relation to a transferor to be treated as made or done by or in
relation to the transferee.

43.3

A share transfer instrument may provide for anything (including legal
proceedings) that relates to anything transferred and is in the process of
being done by or in relation to the transferor immediately before the transfer
date, to be continued by or in relation to the transferee.

43.4

A share transfer instrument may modify references (express or implied) in an
instrument or document to a transferor.

43.5

A share transfer instrument may require or permit—

43.5.a

a transferor to provide a transferee with information and assistance;

43.5.b

a transferee to provide a transferor with information and assistance.

###### Conversion and delisting

44

44.1

A share transfer instrument may provide for securities to be converted from
one form or class to another.

44.2

A share transfer instrument may provide for the listing of securities, under
section 74 of FSMA 2000, to be discontinued or suspended.

44.3

Where the listing of securities is suspended in accordance with a share
transfer instrument, those securities are to be treated for the purposes of
section 96 of, and paragraph 23(6) of Schedule 1ZA to, FSMA 2000 as still
being listed.

###### Directors and senior managers

45

45.1

A share transfer instrument may enable the Bank—

45.1.a

to remove a director or senior manager of a specified CCP;

45.1.b

to vary the service contract of a director or senior manager of a specified
CCP;

45.1.c

to terminate the service contract of a director or senior manager of a
specified CCP;

45.1.d

to appoint a director or a senior manager of a specified CCP.

45.2

Sub-paragraph  (1)  also applies to a director or senior manager of a relevant
CCP group company of the specified CCP.

45.3

A “ relevant CCP group company ” means a CCP group company that is
incorporated in, or formed under the law of any part of, the United Kingdom.

45.4

Appointments under sub-paragraph  (1)(d)  are to be on terms and conditions
agreed with the Bank.

###### Ancillary instruments: production, registration, etc

46

46.1

A share transfer instrument may permit or require the execution, issue or
delivery of an instrument.

46.2

A share transfer instrument may provide for a transfer to have effect
irrespective of —

46.2.a

whether an instrument has been produced, delivered, transferred or otherwise
dealt with;

46.2.b

registration.

46.3

A share transfer instrument may provide for the effect of an instrument
executed, issued or delivered, in accordance with the instrument.

46.4

A share transfer instrument may modify or annul the effect of an instrument.

46.5

A share transfer instrument may—

46.5.a

entitle a transferee to be registered in respect of transferred securities;

46.5.b

require a person to effect registration.

###### Incidental provision

47

47.1

A share transfer instrument may include incidental, consequential or
transitional provision.

47.2

In relying on sub-paragraph  (1)  a share transfer instrument—

47.2.a

may make provision generally or only for specified purposes, cases or
circumstances, and

47.2.b

may make different provision for different purposes, cases or circumstances.

###### Procedure: instruments

48

48.1

As soon as is reasonably practicable after making a share transfer instrument
in respect of a CCP, the Bank must send a copy to—

48.1.a

the CCP,

48.1.b

the Treasury,

48.1.c

if the CCP is a PRA-authorised person, the PRA,

48.1.d

the FCA, and

48.1.e

any other person specified in the code of practice under paragraph  16 .

48.2

As soon as is reasonably practicable after making share transfer instrument
the Bank must publish a copy—

48.2.a

on the Bank’s website,

48.2.b

in at least one other medium chosen by the Bank to maximise the likelihood of
the instrument coming to the attention of persons likely to be affected by it,
and

48.2.c

if securities of the CCP have been admitted to trading on a regulated market
(within the meaning of section 103(1) of FSMA 2000), by means of a regulatory
information service (within the meaning of section 313D of that Act),

and arrange for the publication of a copy on the website of the CCP in respect
of which the instrument was made.

48.3

Where the Treasury receive a copy of a share transfer instrument under sub-
paragraph  (1)  they must lay a copy before Parliament.

###### Supplemental instruments

49

49.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank has made a share transfer instrument, in
respect of securities issued by a CCP, in accordance with paragraph  27(2) ,
29(3)  or  30(2)  (“the original instrument”).

49.2

The Bank may make one or more supplemental share transfer instruments.

49.3

A supplemental share transfer instrument is a share transfer instrument which—

49.3.a

provides for the transfer of securities which were issued by the CCP before
the original instrument and have not been transferred by the original
instrument or another supplemental share transfer instrument;

49.3.b

makes provision of a kind that a share transfer instrument may make under
paragraph  41(1)(b)  (whether or not in connection with a transfer under the
original instrument).

49.4

Paragraphs  17  and  19  do not apply to a supplemental share transfer
instrument (but it is to be treated in the same way as any other share
transfer instrument for all other purposes, including for the purposes of the
application of a power under this Schedule).

49.5

Before making a supplemental share transfer instrument the Bank must consult—

49.5.a

if the CCP is a PRA-authorised person, the PRA,

49.5.b

the FCA, and

49.5.c

the Treasury.

49.6

The possibility of making a supplemental share transfer instrument in reliance
on sub-paragraph  (2)  is without prejudice to the possibility of making a new
instrument in accordance with paragraphs  27(2) ,  29(3)  and  30(2)  (and not
in reliance on sub-paragraph  (2)  above).

49.7

Paragraph  48  applies where the Bank has made a supplemental share transfer
instrument.

###### Onward transfer

50

50.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank has made a share transfer instrument, in
respect of securities issued by a CCP, in accordance with paragraph  27(2) ,
29(3)  or  30(2)  (“the original instrument”).

50.2

The Bank may make one or more onward share transfer instruments.

50.3

An onward share transfer instrument is a share transfer instrument which—

50.3.a

provides for the transfer of—

50.3.a.i

securities which were issued by the CCP before the original instrument and
have been transferred by the original instrument or a supplemental share
transfer instrument, or

50.3.a.ii

securities which were issued by the CCP after the original instrument;

50.3.b

makes other provision for the purposes of, or in connection with, the transfer
of securities issued by the CCP (whether the transfer has been or is to be
effected by that instrument, by another share transfer instrument or
otherwise).

50.4

An onward share transfer instrument may not transfer securities to the
transferor under the original instrument.

50.5

The Bank may not make an onward share transfer instrument unless the
transferee under the original instrument is—

50.5.a

the Bank,

50.5.b

a nominee of the Treasury, or

50.5.c

a company wholly owned by the Bank or the Treasury.

50.6

Paragraphs  17  and  19  do not apply to an onward share transfer instrument
(but it is to be treated in the same way as any other share transfer
instrument for all other purposes, including for the purposes of the
application of a power under this Schedule).

50.7

Before making an onward share transfer instrument the Bank must consult—

50.7.a

if the CCP is a PRA-authorised person, the PRA, and

50.7.b

the FCA.

50.8

Paragraph  48  applies where the Bank has made an onward share transfer
instrument.

###### Reverse share transfer

51

51.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank has made a share transfer instrument in
accordance with paragraph  27(2) ,  29(3)  or  30(2)  (“the original
instrument”) providing for the transfer of securities issued by a CCP to a
person (“the original transferee”).

51.2

The Bank may make one or more reverse share transfer instruments in respect of
securities issued by the CCP and held by the original transferee (whether or
not they were transferred by the original instrument).

51.3

If the Bank makes an onward share transfer instrument in respect of securities
transferred by the original instrument, the Bank may make one or more reverse
share transfer instruments in respect of securities issued by the CCP and held
by a transferee under the onward share transfer instrument (“the onward
transferee”).

51.4

A reverse share transfer instrument is a share transfer instrument which—

51.4.a

provides for transfer to the transferor under the original instrument (where
sub-paragraph  (2)  applies);

51.4.b

provides for transfer to the original transferee (where sub-paragraph  (3)
applies);

51.4.c

makes other provision for the purposes of, or in connection with, the transfer
of securities which are, could be or could have been transferred under
paragraph (a) or (b).

51.5

The Bank may not make a reverse share transfer instrument under sub-paragraph
(2)  unless—

51.5.a

the original transferee is—

51.5.a.i

the Bank,

51.5.a.ii

a company wholly owned by the Bank or the Treasury, or

51.5.a.iii

a nominee of the Treasury, or

51.5.b

the reverse share transfer instrument is made with the written consent of the
original transferee.

51.6

The Bank may not make a reverse share transfer instrument under sub-paragraph
(3)  unless—

51.6.a

the onward transferee is—

51.6.a.i

the Bank,

51.6.a.ii

a company wholly owned by the Bank or the Treasury, or

51.6.a.iii

a nominee of the Treasury, or

51.6.b

the reverse share transfer instrument is made with the written consent of the
onward transferee.

51.7

Paragraphs  17  and  19  do not apply to a reverse share transfer instrument
(but it is to be treated in the same way as any other share transfer
instrument for all other purposes including for the purposes of the
application of a power under this Schedule).

51.8

Before making a reverse share transfer instrument the Bank must consult—

51.8.a

if the CCP is a PRA-authorised person, the PRA, and

51.8.b

the FCA.

51.9

Paragraph  48  applies where the Bank has made a reverse share transfer
instrument.

###### Bridge central counterparties: share transfers

52

52.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank has made a property transfer instrument
or share transfer instrument in respect of a bridge central counterparty in
accordance with paragraph  29(3)  (“the original instrument”).

52.2

The Bank may make one or more bridge central counterparty share transfer
instruments.

52.3

A bridge central counterparty share transfer instrument is a share transfer
instrument which—

52.3.a

provides for securities issued by the bridge central counterparty to be
transferred;

52.3.b

makes other provision for the purposes of, or in connection with, the transfer
of securities issued by the bridge central counterparty (whether the transfer
has been or is to be effected by that instrument, by another share transfer
instrument or otherwise).

52.4

Paragraphs  17  and  19  do not apply to a bridge central counterparty share
transfer instrument (but it is to be treated in the same way as any other
share transfer instrument for all other purposes, including for the purposes
of the application of a power under this Schedule).

52.5

Before making a bridge central counterparty share transfer instrument the Bank
must consult—

52.5.a

if the CCP is a PRA-authorised person, the PRA,

52.5.b

the FCA, and

52.5.c

the Treasury.

52.6

Paragraph  48  applies where the Bank has made a bridge central counterparty
share transfer instrument.

###### Bridge central counterparties: reverse share transfer

53

53.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank has made a bridge central counterparty
share transfer instrument in accordance with paragraph  52(2)  (“the original
instrument”).

53.2

The Bank may make one or more bridge central counterparty reverse share
transfer instruments in respect of securities issued by the bridge central
counterparty and held by a transferee under the original instrument.

53.3

A bridge central counterparty reverse share transfer instrument is a share
transfer instrument which—

53.3.a

provides for transfer to the transferor under the original instrument;

53.3.b

makes other provision for the purposes of, or in connection with, the transfer
of securities which are, could be or could have been transferred under
paragraph  (a) .

53.4

The Bank must not make a bridge central counterparty reverse share transfer
instrument unless—

53.4.a

the transferee under the original instrument is—

53.4.a.i

a company wholly owned by the Bank,

53.4.a.ii

a company wholly owned by the Treasury, or

53.4.a.iii

a nominee of the Treasury, or

53.4.b

the bridge central counterparty reverse share transfer instrument is made with
the written consent of the transferee under the original instrument.

53.5

Paragraphs  17  and  19  do not apply to a bridge central counterparty reverse
share transfer instrument (but it is to be treated in the same way as any
other share transfer instrument for all other purposes including for the
purposes of the application of a power under this Schedule).

53.6

Before making a bridge central counterparty reverse share transfer instrument
the Bank must consult—

53.6.a

if the CCP is a PRA-authorised person, the PRA,

53.6.b

the FCA, and

53.6.c

the Treasury.

53.7

Paragraph  48  applies where the Bank has made a bridge central counterparty
reverse share transfer instrument.

###### Property transfer instrument

54

54.1

A property transfer instrument is an instrument which—

54.1.a

provides for property, rights or liabilities of a specified CCP to be
transferred;

54.1.b

makes other provision for the purposes of, or in connection with, the transfer
of property, rights or liabilities of a specified CCP (whether the transfer
has been or is to be effected by that instrument, by another property transfer
instrument or otherwise).

54.2

A property transfer instrument may relate to—

54.2.a

all property, rights and liabilities of the specified CCP,

54.2.b

all its property, rights and liabilities subject to specified exceptions,

54.2.c

specified property, rights or liabilities, or

54.2.d

property, rights or liabilities of a specified description.

###### Effect

55

55.1

In this paragraph “ transfer ” means a transfer provided for by a property
transfer instrument.

55.2

A transfer takes effect by virtue of the instrument (and in accordance with
its provisions as to timing or other ancillary matters).

55.3

A transfer takes effect despite any restriction arising by virtue of contract
or legislation or in any other way.

55.4

In sub-paragraph  (3)  “ restriction ” includes—

55.4.a

any restriction, inability or incapacity affecting what can and cannot be
assigned or transferred (whether generally or by a particular person), and

55.4.b

a requirement for consent (by any name).

55.5

A property transfer instrument may provide for a transfer to be conditional
upon a specified event or situation—

55.5.a

occurring or arising, or

55.5.b

not occurring or arising.

55.6

A property transfer instrument may include provision dealing with the
consequences of breach of a condition imposed under sub-paragraph  (5) ; and
the consequences may include—

55.6.a

automatic vesting in the original transferor;

55.6.b

an obligation to effect a transfer back to the original transferor, with
specified consequences for failure to comply (which may include provision
conferring a discretion on a court or tribunal);

55.6.c

provision making a transfer or anything done in connection with a transfer
void or voidable.

55.7

Where a property transfer instrument makes provision in respect of property
held on trust (however arising) it may also make provision about—

55.7.a

the terms on which the property is to be held after the instrument takes
effect, and

55.7.b

how any powers, rights or obligations in respect of the property are to be
exercisable or have effect after the instrument takes effect.

55.8

Provision under sub-paragraph  (7)(a)  may remove or alter the terms of the
trust on which the property is held only to the extent that the Bank thinks it
necessary or expedient for the purpose of transferring—

55.8.a

the legal or beneficial interest of the transferor in the property;

55.8.b

any powers, rights or obligations of the transferor in respect of the
property.

55.9

In sub-paragraph  (8)  references to the transferor are references to the
transferor under the property transfer instrument.

###### Transferable property

56

A property transfer instrument may transfer any property, rights or
liabilities including, in particular—

56.a

property, rights and liabilities acquired or arising between the making of the
instrument and the transfer date,

56.b

rights and liabilities arising on or after the transfer date in respect of
matters occurring before that date,

56.c

property outside the United Kingdom,

56.d

rights and liabilities under the law of a country or territory outside the
United Kingdom, and

56.e

rights and liabilities under an enactment.

###### Continuity

57

57.1

A property transfer instrument may provide—

57.1.a

for a transfer to be, or to be treated as, a succession;

57.1.b

for a transferee to be treated for any purpose connected with the transfer as
the same person as the transferor.

57.2

A property transfer instrument may provide for agreements made or other things
done by or in relation to a transferor to be treated as made or done by or in
relation to the transferee.

57.3

A property transfer instrument may provide for anything (including legal
proceedings) that relates to anything transferred and is in the process of
being done by or in relation to the transferor immediately before the transfer
date, to be continued by or in relation to the transferee.

57.4

A property transfer instrument which transfers or enables the transfer of a
contract of employment may include provision about continuity of employment.

57.5

A property transfer instrument may modify references (express or implied) in
an instrument or document to a transferor.

57.6

In so far as rights and liabilities in respect of anything transferred are
enforceable after transfer, a property transfer instrument may provide for
apportionment between transferor and transferee to a specified extent and in
specified ways.

57.7

A property transfer instrument may enable the transferor and transferee by
agreement to modify a provision of the instrument; but a modification—

57.7.a

must achieve a result that could have been achieved by the instrument, and

57.7.b

may not transfer (or arrange for the transfer of) property, rights or
liabilities.

57.8

A property transfer instrument may require or permit—

57.8.a

a transferor to provide a transferee with information and assistance;

57.8.b

a transferee to provide a transferor with information and assistance.

###### Directors and senior managers

58

58.1

A property transfer instrument may enable the Bank—

58.1.a

to remove a director or senior manager of a specified CCP;

58.1.b

to vary the service contract of a director or senior manager of a specified
CCP;

58.1.c

to terminate the service contract of a director or senior manager of a
specified CCP;

58.1.d

to appoint a director or senior manager of a specified CCP.

58.2

Sub-paragraph  (1)  also applies to a director or senior manager of a relevant
CCP group company of the specified CCP.

58.3

A “ relevant CCP group company ” means a CCP group company incorporated in, or
formed under the law of any part of, the United Kingdom.

58.4

Appointments under sub-paragraph  (1)(d)  are to be on terms and conditions
agreed with the Bank.

###### Recognised central counterparty rules

59

59.1

A property transfer instrument made in respect of a CCP may make provision
about the consequences of a transfer for the rules of the CCP.

59.2

In particular, an instrument may—

59.2.a

modify or amend the rules of a CCP;

59.2.b

in a case where some, but not all, of the business of a CCP is transferred,
make provision as to the application of the rules in relation to the parts of
the business that are, and are not, transferred.

59.3

Provision by virtue of this paragraph may (but need not) be limited so as to
have effect—

59.3.a

for a specified period, or

59.3.b

until a specified event occurs or does not occur.

###### Recognised central counterparty membership

60

60.1

A property transfer instrument made in respect of a CCP may make provision
about the consequences of a transfer for membership of the CCP.

60.2

In particular, an instrument may—

60.2.a

make provision modifying the terms on which a person is a clearing member of a
CCP;

60.2.b

in a case where some, but not all, of the business of a CCP is transferred,
provide for a person who was a clearing member of the transferor to remain a
clearing member of the transferor while also becoming a clearing member of the
transferee.

###### Licences

61

61.1

A licence in respect of anything transferred by a property transfer instrument
continues to have effect despite the transfer.

61.2

A property transfer instrument may disapply sub-paragraph  (1)  to a specified
extent.

61.3

Where a licence imposes rights or obligations, a property transfer instrument
may apportion responsibility for exercise or compliance between transferor and
transferee.

61.4

In this paragraph “ licence ” includes permission and approval and any other
permissive document in respect of anything transferred.

###### Foreign property

62

62.1

This paragraph applies where a property transfer instrument transfers foreign
property.

62.2

In sub-paragraph  (1)  “ foreign property ” means—

62.2.a

property outside the United Kingdom, or

62.2.b

rights and liabilities under foreign law.

62.3

The transferor and the transferee must each take any necessary steps to ensure
that the transfer is effective as a matter of foreign law (if it is not wholly
effective by virtue of the property transfer instrument).

62.4

Until the transfer is effective as a matter of foreign law, the transferor
must—

62.4.a

hold the property or right for the benefit of the transferee (together with
any additional property or right accruing by virtue of the original property
or right), or

62.4.b

discharge the liability on behalf of the transferee.

62.5

If the Bank determines that, in spite of any action taken by the transferee or
the transferor, it is not possible for the transfer of certain property to be
effective under the law of the jurisdiction where the property is located or
(where the property consists of rights or liabilities) the law under which it
arises—

62.5.a

sub-paragraph  (4)  ceases to apply, and

62.5.b

the provisions of the property transfer instrument relating to that property
are void.

62.6

The Bank must give notice of any determination under sub-paragraph  (5)  to
the transferor and the transferee.

62.7

The transferor must meet any expenses of the transferee in complying with this
paragraph.

62.8

An obligation imposed by this paragraph is enforceable as if created by
contract between the transferor and transferee.

62.9

The transferor must comply with any directions of the Bank in respect of the
obligations under sub-paragraphs  (3)  and  (4) ; and—

62.9.a

a direction may disapply sub-paragraphs  (3)  and  (4)  to a specified extent,
and

62.9.b

obligations imposed by direction are enforceable as if created by contract
between the transferor and the Bank.

62.10

In this paragraph “ foreign law ” means the law of a country or territory
outside the United Kingdom.

###### Incidental provision

63

63.1

A property transfer instrument may include incidental, consequential or
transitional provision.

63.2

In relying on sub-paragraph  (1)  an instrument—

63.2.a

may make provision generally or only for specified purposes, cases or
circumstances, and

63.2.b

may make different provision for different purposes, cases or circumstances.

###### Procedure

64

64.1

As soon as is reasonably practicable after making a property transfer
instrument in respect of a CCP, the Bank must send a copy to—

64.1.a

the CCP,

64.1.b

the Treasury,

64.1.c

if the CCP is a PRA-authorised person, the PRA,

64.1.d

the FCA, and

64.1.e

any other person specified in the code of practice under paragraph  16 .

64.2

As soon as is reasonably practicable after making a property transfer
instrument the Bank must publish a copy—

64.2.a

on the Bank’s website,

64.2.b

in at least one other medium chosen by the Bank to maximise the likelihood of
the instrument coming to the attention of persons likely to be affected, and

64.2.c

if securities of the CCP have been admitted to trading on a regulated market
(within the meaning of section 103(1) of FSMA 2000), by means of a regulatory
information service (within the meaning of section 313D of that Act),

and arrange for the publication of a copy on the website of the CCP in respect
of which the instrument was made.

64.3

Where the Treasury receive a copy of a property transfer instrument under sub-
paragraph  (1)  they must lay a copy before Parliament.

###### Property transfer instrument: delisting

65

65.1

A property transfer instrument may provide for the listing of securities,
under section 74 of FSMA 2000, to be discontinued or suspended.

65.2

Where the listing of securities is suspended in accordance with a property
transfer instrument, those securities are to be treated for the purposes of
section 96 of, and paragraph 23(6) of Schedule 1ZA to, FSMA 2000 as still
being listed.

###### Transfer of property subsequent to resolution instrument

66

66.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank has made a resolution instrument.

66.2

The Bank may make one or more property transfer instruments in respect of
property, rights or liabilities of the CCP.

66.3

Paragraph  17  does not apply to a property transfer instrument under sub-
paragraph  (2) .

66.4

Before making a property transfer instrument under sub-paragraph  (2)  the
Bank must consult—

66.4.a

if the CCP is a PRA-authorised person, the PRA,

66.4.b

the FCA, and

66.4.c

the Treasury.

###### Supplemental instruments

67

67.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank has made a property transfer instrument
in accordance with paragraph  27(2)  or  29(3)  (“the original instrument”).

67.2

The Bank may make one or more supplemental property transfer instruments.

67.3

A supplemental property transfer instrument is a property transfer instrument
which—

67.3.a

provides for property, rights or liabilities to be transferred from the
transferor under the original instrument (whether accruing or arising before
or after the original instrument);

67.3.b

makes other provision of a kind that an original property transfer instrument
may make under paragraph  54(1)(b)  (whether in connection with a transfer
under the original instrument or in connection with a transfer under that or
another supplemental instrument).

67.4

Paragraphs  17  and  19  do not apply to a supplemental property transfer
instrument (but it is to be treated in the same way as any other property
transfer instrument for all other purposes, including for the purposes of the
application of a power under this Schedule).

67.5

Before making a supplemental property transfer instrument the Bank must
consult—

67.5.a

if the CCP is a PRA-authorised person, the PRA,

67.5.b

the FCA, and

67.5.c

the Treasury.

67.6

The possibility of making a supplemental property transfer instrument in
reliance on sub-paragraph  (2)  is without prejudice to the possibility of
making a new instrument in accordance with paragraph  27(2)  or  29(3)  (and
not in reliance on sub-paragraph  (2)  above).

67.7

Paragraph  64  applies where the Bank has made a supplemental property
transfer instrument.

###### Private sector purchaser: reverse property transfer

68

68.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank has made a property transfer instrument
in accordance with paragraph  27(2)  (“the original instrument”) providing for
the transfer of property, rights or liabilities of a CCP to a person (“the
original transferee”).

68.2

The Bank may make one or more private sector reverse property transfer
instruments in respect of property, rights or liabilities of the original
transferee.

68.3

A private sector reverse property transfer instrument is a property transfer
instrument which—

68.3.a

provides for transfer to the transferor under the original instrument;

68.3.b

makes other provision for the purposes of, or in connection with, the transfer
of property, rights or liabilities that are, could be or could have been
transferred under paragraph  (a)  (whether the transfer has been or is to be
effected by that instrument or otherwise).

68.4

The Bank must not make a private sector reverse property transfer instrument
without the written consent of the original transferee.

68.5

Paragraphs  17  and  19  do not apply to a private sector reverse property
transfer instrument (but it is to be treated in the same way as any other
property transfer instrument for all other purposes including for the purposes
of the application of a power under this Schedule).

68.6

Before making a private sector reverse property transfer instrument the Bank
must consult—

68.6.a

if the CCP is a PRA-authorised person, the PRA,

68.6.b

the FCA, and

68.6.c

the Treasury.

68.7

Paragraph  64  applies where the Bank has made a private sector reverse
property transfer instrument.

###### Onward transfer

69

69.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank has made a property transfer instrument
in respect of a bridge central counterparty in accordance with paragraph
29(3)  (“the original instrument”).

69.2

The Bank may make one or more onward property transfer instruments.

69.3

An onward property transfer instrument is a property transfer instrument
which—

69.3.a

provides for property, rights or liabilities of the bridge central
counterparty to be transferred (whether accruing or arising before or after
the original instrument);

69.3.b

makes other provision for the purposes of, or in connection with, the transfer
of property, rights or liabilities of the bridge central counterparty (whether
the transfer has been or is to be effected by that instrument, by another
property transfer instrument or otherwise).

69.4

An onward property transfer instrument may relate to property, rights or
liabilities of the bridge central counterparty whether or not they were
transferred under the original instrument.

69.5

An onward property transfer instrument may not transfer property, rights or
liabilities to the transferor under the original instrument.

69.6

Paragraphs  17  and  19  do not apply to an onward property transfer
instrument (but for other purposes it is to be treated in the same way as any
other property transfer instrument, including for the purposes of the
application of a power under this Schedule).

69.7

Before making an onward property transfer instrument the Bank must consult—

69.7.a

if the CCP is a PRA-authorised person, the PRA

69.7.b

the FCA, and

69.7.c

the Treasury.

69.8

Paragraph  64  applies where the Bank of England has made an onward property
transfer instrument.

###### Bridge central counterparties: reverse property transfer

70

70.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank has made a property transfer instrument
in accordance with paragraph  29(3)  (“the original instrument”) providing for
the transfer of property, rights or liabilities to a bridge central
counterparty.

70.2

The Bank may make one or more bridge central counterparty reverse property
transfer instruments in respect of property, rights or liabilities of the
bridge central counterparty.

70.3

If the Bank makes an onward property transfer instrument under paragraph  69
the Bank may make one or more reverse property transfer instruments in respect
of property, rights or liabilities of a transferee under the onward property
transfer instrument (“the onward transferee”).

70.4

A bridge central counterparty reverse property transfer instrument is a
property transfer instrument which—

70.4.a

provides for transfer to the transferor under the original instrument (where
sub-paragraph  (2)  applies);

70.4.b

provides for transfer to the bridge central counterparty (where sub-paragraph
(3)  applies);

70.4.c

makes other provision for the purposes of, or in connection with, the transfer
of property, rights or liabilities that are, could be or could have been
transferred under paragraph  (a)  or  (b)  (whether the transfer has been or
is to be effected by that instrument or otherwise).

70.5

The Bank must not make a bridge central counterparty reverse property transfer
instrument unless—

70.5.a

the onward transferee is—

70.5.a.i

a company wholly owned by the Bank,

70.5.a.ii

a company wholly owned by the Treasury, or

70.5.a.iii

a company wholly owned by a nominee of the Treasury, or

70.5.b

the bridge central counterparty reverse property transfer is made with the
written consent of the onward transferee.

70.6

Paragraphs  17  and  19  do not apply to a bridge central counterparty reverse
property transfer instrument (but it is to be treated in the same way as any
other property transfer instrument for all other purposes including for the
purposes of the application of a power under this Schedule).

70.7

Before making a bridge central counterparty reverse property transfer
instrument the Bank must consult—

70.7.a

if the CCP is a PRA-authorised person, the PRA,

70.7.b

the FCA, and

70.7.c

the Treasury.

70.8

Paragraph  64  applies where the Bank has made a bridge central counterparty
reverse property transfer instrument.

###### Transfer of ownership and private sector purchaser: property transfer

71

71.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank has made a share transfer instrument, in
respect of securities issued by a CCP, in accordance with paragraph  27(2)  or
30(2)  (“the original instrument”).

71.2

The Bank may make one or more property transfer instruments.

71.3

A property transfer instrument is an instrument which—

71.3.a

provides for property, rights or liabilities of the CCP to be transferred
(whether accruing or arising before or after the original instrument);

71.3.b

makes other provision for the purposes of, or in connection with, the transfer
of property, rights or liabilities of the CCP (whether the transfer has been
or is to be effected by the instrument or otherwise).

71.4

The Bank may not make a property transfer instrument in accordance with this
paragraph unless the original instrument transferred securities to—

71.4.a

the Bank,

71.4.b

a company wholly owned by the Bank or the Treasury, or

71.4.c

a nominee of the Treasury.

71.5

Paragraphs  17  and  19  do not apply to a property transfer instrument made
in accordance with this paragraph.

71.6

Before making a property transfer instrument in accordance with this
paragraph, the Bank must consult—

71.6.a

if the CCP is a PRA-authorised person, the PRA, and

71.6.b

the FCA.

71.7

Paragraph  64  applies where the Bank has made a property transfer instrument
in accordance with this paragraph.

###### Transfer of ownership: reverse property transfer

72

72.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank has made a property transfer instrument
in accordance with paragraph  71(2)  (“the original instrument”).

72.2

The Bank may make one or more reverse property transfer instruments in respect
of property, rights and liabilities of the transferee under the original
instrument.

72.3

A reverse property transfer instrument is a property transfer instrument
which—

72.3.a

provides for transfer to the transferor under the original instrument;

72.3.b

makes other provision for the purposes of, or in connection with, the transfer
of property, rights or liabilities which are, could be or could have been
transferred.

72.4

The Bank must not make a reverse property transfer instrument unless—

72.4.a

the transferee under the original instrument is—

72.4.a.i

the Bank,

72.4.a.ii

a company wholly owned by the Bank or the Treasury, or

72.4.a.iii

a nominee of the Treasury, or

72.4.b

the reverse property transfer instrument is made with the written consent of
the transferee under the original instrument.

72.5

Paragraphs  17  and  19  do not apply to a reverse property transfer
instrument made in accordance with this paragraph.

72.6

Before making a reverse property transfer instrument in accordance with this
paragraph, the Bank must consult—

72.6.a

if the CCP is a PRA-authorised person, the PRA, and

72.6.b

the FCA.

72.7

Paragraph  64  applies where the Bank has made a reverse property transfer
instrument in accordance with this paragraph.

###### Bridge central counterparty: supplemental property transfer powers

73

73.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank has made a share transfer instrument in
accordance with paragraph  29(3)  (“the original instrument”) providing for
the transfer of securities issued by a CCP (“the CCP”) to a bridge central
counterparty.

73.2

The Bank may make one or more property transfer instruments in relation to the
CCP (“bridge central counterparty supplemental property transfer
instruments”).

73.3

A bridge central counterparty supplemental property transfer instrument is an
instrument which—

73.3.a

provides for property, rights or liabilities of the CCP to be transferred
(whether accruing or arising before or after the original instrument);

73.3.b

makes other provision for the purposes of, or in connection with, the transfer
of property, rights or liabilities of the CCP (whether the transfer has been
or is to be effected by the instrument or otherwise).

73.4

Paragraphs  17  and  19  do not apply to a bridge central counterparty
supplemental property transfer instrument (but it is to be treated in the same
way as any other property transfer instrument for all other purposes including
for the purposes of the application of a power under this Schedule).

73.5

Before making a bridge central counterparty supplemental property transfer
instrument the Bank must consult—

73.5.a

if the CCP is a PRA-authorised person, the PRA,

73.5.b

the FCA, and

73.5.c

the Treasury.

73.6

The possibility of making a bridge central counterparty supplemental property
transfer instrument in reliance on sub-paragraph  (2)  is without prejudice to
the possibility of making a property transfer instrument in accordance with
paragraph  29(3)  (and not in reliance on sub-paragraph  (2)  above).

73.7

Paragraph  64  applies where the Bank has made a bridge central counterparty
supplemental property transfer instrument.

###### Bridge central counterparty: supplemental reverse property transfer powers

74

74.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank has made a bridge central counterparty
supplemental property transfer instrument in accordance with paragraph  73
(“the original instrument”).

74.2

The Bank may make one or more reverse property transfer instruments (“bridge
central counterparty supplemental reverse property transfer instruments”) in
respect of property, rights or liabilities of the transferee under the
original instrument.

74.3

A bridge central counterparty supplemental reverse property transfer
instrument is an instrument which—

74.3.a

provides for transfer to the transferor under the original instrument;

74.3.b

makes other provision for the purposes of, or in connection with, the transfer
of property, rights or liabilities which are, could be or could have been
transferred under paragraph (a) (whether the transfer has been or is to be
effected by that instrument or otherwise).

74.4

Paragraphs  17  and  19  do not apply to a bridge central counterparty
supplemental reverse property transfer instrument (but it is to be treated in
the same way as any other property transfer instrument for all other purposes
including for the purposes of the application of a power under this Schedule).

74.5

The Bank must not make a bridge central counterparty supplemental reverse
property transfer instrument unless—

74.5.a

the transferee under the original instrument is—

74.5.a.i

a company wholly owned by the Bank of England,

74.5.a.ii

a company wholly owned by the Treasury, or

74.5.a.iii

a nominee of the Treasury, or

74.5.b

it is made with the written consent of the transferee under the original
instrument.

74.6

Before making a bridge central counterparty supplemental reverse property
transfer instrument the Bank must consult—

74.6.a

if the CCP is a PRA-authorised person, the PRA,

74.6.b

the FCA, and

74.6.c

the Treasury.

74.7

Paragraph  64  applies where the Bank has made a bridge central counterparty
supplemental property transfer instrument.

###### Restriction of partial transfers

75

75.1

In this Schedule, “ partial property transfer ” means a property transfer
instrument which provides for the transfer of some, but not all of the
property, rights and liabilities of a CCP.

75.2

The Treasury may by regulations—

75.2.a

restrict the making of partial property transfers;

75.2.b

impose conditions on the making of partial property transfers;

75.2.c

require partial property transfers to include specified provision or provision
to a specified effect;

75.2.d

provide for a partial property transfer to be void or voidable, or for other
consequences (including automatic transfer of other property, rights or
liabilities) to arise, if or in so far as the partial property transfer is
made or purported to be made in contravention of a provision of the
regulations.

75.3

Regulations under this paragraph may apply to partial property transfers
generally or only to partial property transfers—

75.3.a

of a specified kind, or

75.3.b

made or applying in specified circumstances.

75.4

Provision under sub-paragraph  (2)  may, in particular, refer to particular
classes of liabilities.

75.5

Regulations under this paragraph are subject to the affirmative procedure.

###### Power to protect certain interests

76

76.1

In this paragraph—

76.1.a

“ security interests ” means arrangements under which one person acquires, by
way of security, an actual or contingent interest in the property of another,

76.1.b

“title transfer collateral arrangements” are arrangements under which Person 1
transfers assets to Person 2 on terms providing for Person 2 to transfer
assets if specified obligations are discharged,

76.1.c

“set-off arrangements” are arrangements under which two or more debts, claims
or obligations can be set off against each other,

76.1.d

“netting arrangements” are arrangements under which a number of claims or
obligations can be converted into a net claim or obligation and include, in
particular, “close-out” netting arrangements, under which actual or
theoretical debts are calculated during the course of a contract for the
purpose of enabling them to be set off against each other or to be converted
into a net debt, and

76.1.e

“ protected arrangements ” means security interests, title transfer collateral
arrangements, set-off arrangements and netting arrangements.

76.2

The Treasury may by regulations —

76.2.a

restrict the making of partial property transfers in cases that involve, or
where they might affect, protected arrangements;

76.2.b

impose conditions on the making of partial property transfers in cases that
involve, or where they might affect, protected arrangements;

76.2.c

require partial property transfers to include specified provision, or
provision to a specified effect, in respect of or for purposes connected with
protected arrangements;

76.2.d

provide for a partial property transfer to be void or voidable, or for other
consequences (including automatic transfer of other property, rights or
liabilities) to arise, if or in so far as the partial property transfer is
made or purported to be made in contravention of a provision of the
regulations.

76.3

Regulations under this paragraph may apply to protected arrangements generally
or only to arrangements—

76.3.a

of a specified kind, or

76.3.b

made or applying in specified circumstances.

76.4

Regulations under this paragraph may include provision for determining which
arrangements are to be, or not to be, treated as protected arrangements; in
particular, regulations may provide for arrangements to be classified not
according to their description by the parties but according to one or more
indications of how they are treated, or are intended to be treated, in
commercial practice.

76.5

In this paragraph “ arrangements ” includes arrangements which—

76.5.a

are formed wholly or partly by one or more contracts or trusts;

76.5.b

arise under or are wholly or partly governed by the law of a country or
territory outside the United Kingdom;

76.5.c

wholly or partly arise automatically as a matter of law;

76.5.d

involve any number of parties;

76.5.e

operate partly by reference to other arrangements between other parties.

76.6

Regulations under this paragraph are subject to the affirmative procedure.

###### Creation of liabilities

77

77.1

The provision that may be made by a property transfer instrument in reliance
on paragraph  54(1)(b) ,  67(3)(b) ,  68(3)(b) ,  69(3)(b) ,  70(4)(c) ,
71(3)(b) ,  72(3)(b) ,  73(3)(b) , or  74(3)(b)  includes provision for the
creation of liabilities.

77.2

The provision may be framed by reference to an agreement which has been or is
to be entered into, or anything else which has been or is to be done, by any
person (including a person other than the person making the instrument).

###### Regulations for safeguarding certain financial arrangements: write-down instruments

78

78.1

In this paragraph “ protected arrangements ” means security interests, title
transfer collateral arrangements, set-off arrangements and netting
arrangements.

78.2

In sub-paragraph  (1) —

78.2.a

“ security interests ” means arrangements under which one person acquires, by
way of security, an actual or contingent interest in the property of another,

78.2.b

“title transfer collateral arrangements” are arrangements under which Person 1
transfers assets to Person 2 on terms providing for Person 2 to transfer
assets if specified obligations are discharged,

78.2.c

“set-off arrangements” are arrangements under which two or more debts, claims
or obligations can be set off against each other, and

78.2.d

“netting arrangements” are arrangements under which a number of claims or
obligations can be converted into a net claim or obligation and include, in
particular, “close-out” netting arrangements, under which actual or
theoretical debts are calculated during the course of a contract for the
purpose of enabling them to be set off against each other or to be converted
into a net debt.

78.3

The Treasury may by regulations —

78.3.a

restrict the making of a write-down instrument in cases that involve, or where
they might affect, protected arrangements;

78.3.b

impose conditions on the making of write-down instruments in cases that
involve, or where they might affect, protected arrangements;

78.3.c

require write-down instruments to include specified provision, or provision to
a specified effect, in respect of or for purposes connected with protected
arrangements;

78.3.d

provide for a write-down instrument to be void or voidable, or for other
consequences to arise, if or in so far as the write-down instrument is made or
purported to be made in contravention of a provision of the regulations;

78.3.e

specify principles to which the Bank is to be required to have regard in
making a write-down instrument—

78.3.e.i

that involves protected arrangements, or

78.3.e.ii

where the making of the instrument might affect protected arrangements.

78.4

Regulations under this paragraph may apply to protected arrangements generally
or only to arrangements—

78.4.a

of a specified kind, or

78.4.b

made or applying in specified circumstances.

78.5

Regulations under this paragraph may include provision for determining which
arrangements are to be, or not to be, treated as protected arrangements; in
particular, regulations may provide for arrangements to be classified not
according to their description by the parties but according to one or more
indications of how they are treated, or are intended to be treated, in
commercial practice.

78.6

In this paragraph “ arrangements ” includes arrangements which—

78.6.a

are formed wholly or partly by one or more contracts or trusts;

78.6.b

arise under or are wholly or partly governed by the law of a country or
territory outside the United Kingdom;

78.6.c

wholly or partly arise automatically as a matter of law;

78.6.d

involve any number of parties;

78.6.e

operate partly by reference to other arrangements between other parties.

78.7

Regulations under this paragraph are subject to the affirmative procedure.

###### Resolution instruments: effect and supplementary matters

79

79.1

In this Schedule “ resolution instrument ” means—

79.1.a

a cash call instrument;

79.1.b

a tear-up instrument;

79.1.c

a variation instrument;

79.1.d

a write-down instrument;

79.1.e

an instrument of control.

79.2

A resolution instrument must be made in writing.

79.3

A resolution instrument in respect of a CCP ceases to have effect on whichever
of the following occurs first—

79.3.a

such date as may be specified in the instrument,

79.3.b

the making of a share transfer instrument or a property transfer instrument in
relation to the CCP, or

79.3.c

any of the conditions under paragraph  17  ceasing to be met in relation to
the CCP.

79.4

The Bank may at any time amend a resolution instrument to specify or amend a
date for the purposes of sub-paragraph  (3)(a) .

79.5

Before amending a resolution instrument in accordance with sub-paragraph  (4)
the Bank must consult the Treasury.

79.6

Provision made in a resolution instrument takes effect despite any restriction
arising by virtue of contract or legislation or in any other way.

79.7

A resolution instrument may provide for anything (including legal proceedings)
that relates to anything affected by the instrument and is in the process of
being done immediately before the instrument takes effect to be continued from
the time the instrument takes effect.

79.8

A resolution instrument may modify references (express or implied) in an
instrument or document.

79.9

A resolution instrument may require or permit any person to provide
information and assistance to the Bank or another person, for the purposes of
or in connection with provision made or to be made in that or another
resolution instrument.

79.10

A resolution instrument—

79.10.a

may include supplemental, incidental, consequential or transitional provision,

79.10.b

may make provision generally or only for specified purposes, cases or
circumstances,

79.10.c

may make different provision for different purposes, cases or circumstances,
and

79.10.d

may make provision for exemptions.

79.11

A resolution instrument ceasing to have effect does not affect the validity of
anything previously done in accordance with it.

###### Write-down instruments: supplementary

80

80.1

A write-down instrument may permit or require the execution, issue or delivery
of an instrument.

80.2

A write-down instrument may provide for any provision in the instrument to
have effect irrespective of—

80.2.a

whether an instrument has been produced, delivered, transferred or otherwise
dealt with;

80.2.b

registration.

80.3

A write-down instrument may provide for the effect of an instrument executed,
issued or delivered in accordance with the instrument.

80.4

A write-down instrument may—

80.4.a

entitle a person to be registered in respect of a security;

80.4.b

require a person to effect registration.

###### Resolution instruments: procedure

81

81.1

As soon as is reasonably practicable after making a resolution instrument in
respect of a CCP, the Bank must send a copy of the instrument to—

81.1.a

the CCP,

81.1.b

the Treasury,

81.1.c

if the CCP is a PRA-authorised person, the PRA,

81.1.d

the FCA, and

81.1.e

any other person specified in the code of practice under paragraph  16 .

81.2

As soon as is reasonably practicable after making a resolution instrument the
Bank must publish a copy—

81.2.a

on the Bank’s website,

81.2.b

in at least one other medium chosen by the Bank to maximise the likelihood of
the instrument coming to the attention of persons likely to be affected, and

81.2.c

if securities of the CCP have been admitted to trading on a regulated market
(within the meaning of section 103(1) of FSMA 2000), by means of a regulatory
information service (within the meaning of section 313D of that Act),

and arrange for the publication of a copy on the website of the CCP in respect
of which the instrument was made.

81.3

Where the Treasury receive a copy of a resolution instrument under sub-
paragraph  (1)  they must lay a copy before Parliament.

###### Supplemental resolution instruments

82

82.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank has made a resolution instrument (“the
original instrument”) with respect to a CCP.

82.2

The Bank may make, with respect to the CCP, one or more resolution instruments
designated by the Bank as supplemental resolution instruments.

82.3

Paragraphs  17 ,  22  and  79(3)(c)  do not apply to a supplemental resolution
instrument (but it is to be treated in the same way as a resolution instrument
for all other purposes, including for the purposes of the application of a
power under this Schedule).

82.4

Before making a supplemental resolution instrument, the Bank must consult—

82.4.a

if the CCP is a PRA-authorised person, the PRA,

82.4.b

the FCA, and

82.4.c

the Treasury.

82.5

The possibility of making a supplemental resolution instrument in reliance on
sub-paragraph  (2)  is without prejudice to the possibility of making a new
resolution instrument in accordance with paragraphs  31(1) ,  32(1) , 33(1),
34(1) and  38(1)  (and not in reliance on sub-paragraph  (2)  above).

###### Directors and senior managers

83

83.1

A resolution instrument may enable the Bank—

83.1.a

to remove a director or senior manager of a specified CCP;

83.1.b

to vary the service contract of a director or senior manager of a specified
CCP;

83.1.c

to terminate the service contract of a director or senior manager of a
specified CCP;

83.1.d

to appoint a director or a senior manager of a specified CCP.

83.2

Sub-paragraph  (1)  also applies to a director or senior manager of a relevant
CCP group company of the specified CCP.

83.3

A “relevant CCP group company” is a CCP group company incorporated in, or
formed under the law of any part of, the United Kingdom.

83.4

Appointments under sub-paragraph  (1)(d)  are to be on terms and conditions
agreed with the Bank.

###### Termination rights etc

84

84.1

In this paragraph—

      “ resolution measure ” means—         the making by the Bank of a
stabilisation instrument in relation to a CCP,           where an instrument
of control under paragraph  38  is in place in relation to a CCP, the exercise
by the Bank of any relevant rules of the CCP,           a measure taken by a
CCP as a result of directions given under paragraph  2 ,           the removal
by a CCP of a director or senior manager as a result of a requirement imposed
under paragraph  5 ,           the appointment of a temporary manager in
relation to a CCP under paragraph  6 ,           a restriction or prohibition
on payments under paragraph  13  or  102 ,           the recognition by the
Bank of third-country resolution action (or part of such action) in accordance
with Part 7 of this Schedule, or           the exercise by the Bank of a
stabilisation power by virtue of paragraph  146(3) ;                 “ default
event provision ” means a Type 1 or Type 2 default event provision (see sub-
paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) );           “ relevant rules ”, in relation to a
CCP, mean rules ensuring that the requirements under paragraph 29A or 36 of
the Schedule to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Recognition
Requirements for Investment Exchanges, Clearing Houses and Central Securities
Depositories) Regulations 2001 ( S.I. 2001/995 ) are met;           “
stabilisation instrument ” means—         a share transfer instrument,
a property transfer instrument, or           a resolution instrument.

84.2

A Type 1 default event provision is a provision of a contract or other
agreement that has the effect that if a specified event occurs or situation
arises—

84.2.a

the agreement is terminated, modified or replaced,

84.2.b

rights or duties under the agreement are terminated, modified or replaced,

84.2.c

a right accrues to terminate, modify or replace the agreement,

84.2.d

a right accrues to terminate, modify or replace rights or duties under the
agreement,

84.2.e

a sum becomes payable or ceases to be payable,

84.2.f

delivery of anything becomes due or ceases to be due,

84.2.g

a right to claim a payment or delivery accrues, changes or lapses,

84.2.h

any other right accrues, changes or lapses,

84.2.i

a right to accelerate, close out, set-off or net obligations accrues, changes
or lapses, or

84.2.j

an interest is created, changes or lapses.

84.3

A Type 2 default event provision is a provision of a contract or other
agreement that has the effect that a provision of the contract or agreement—

84.3.a

takes effect only if a specified event occurs or does not occur,

84.3.b

takes effect only if a specified situation arises or does not arise,

84.3.c

has effect only for so long as a specified event does not occur,

84.3.d

has effect only while a specified situation lasts,

84.3.e

applies differently if a specified event occurs,

84.3.f

applies differently if a specified situation arises, or

84.3.g

applies differently while a specified situation lasts.

84.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3)  it is the effect of a
provision that matters, not how it is described (nor, for example, whether it
is presented in a positive or a negative form).

84.5

Subject to sub-paragraph  (7) , sub-paragraph  (6)  applies where—

84.5.a

a contract or agreement is entered into by a CCP, and

84.5.b

the substantive obligations provided for in the contract or agreement
(including payment and delivery obligations and provision of collateral)
continue to be performed.

84.6

The following are to be disregarded in determining whether a default event
provision applies—

84.6.a

a resolution measure, and

84.6.b

the occurrence of any event directly linked to the application of such a
measure.

84.7

A stabilisation instrument may provide for sub-paragraph  (6) —

84.7.a

not to apply in relation to a contract or other agreement, or

84.7.b

to apply in relation to a contract or other agreement only to the extent
specified by the Bank in the instrument.

84.8

Provision may be made under sub-paragraph  (7)  only if the Bank considers
that such provision would advance one or more of the special resolution
objectives.

84.9

A stabilisation instrument may provide for sub-paragraph  (10)  or  (11)  to
apply (but need not apply either) in circumstances where sub-paragraph  (6)
would not apply.

84.10

If this sub-paragraph applies, the stabilisation instrument is to be
disregarded in determining whether a default event provision applies.

84.11

If this sub-paragraph applies, the stabilisation instrument is to be
disregarded in determining whether a default event provision applies except so
far as the instrument provides otherwise.

84.12

In sub-paragraphs  (9) ,  (10)  and  (11)  a reference to a stabilisation
instrument is a reference to—

84.12.a

the making of the instrument,

84.12.b

anything that is done by the instrument or is to be, or may be, done under or
by virtue of the instrument, and

84.12.c

any action or decision taken or made under this or another enactment in so far
as it resulted in, or was connected to, the making of the instrument.

84.13

Provision under sub-paragraph  (9)  may apply sub-paragraph  (10)  or  (11) —

84.13.a

generally or only for specified purposes, cases or circumstances, or

84.13.b

differently for different purposes, cases or circumstances.

84.14

A thing is not done by virtue of a stabilisation instrument for the purposes
of sub-paragraph  (12)(b)  merely by virtue of being done under a contract or
other agreement rights or obligations under which have been affected by the
instrument.

###### Deferment

85

85.1

The Treasury may by regulations make provision for and in connection with the
suspension or waiver of provisions made under a resolution instrument.

85.2

The following are examples of provision that may be made by regulations under
this paragraph—

85.2.a

provision specifying matters to which the Bank must have regard before
suspending or waiving provisions under a resolution instrument;

85.2.b

provision specifying the procedure for suspending or waiving such provisions;

85.2.c

provision specifying the maximum time period for which a suspension under the
regulations may take effect;

85.2.d

provision for review of any suspension or waiver of provisions under a
resolution instrument.

85.3

Regulations under this paragraph are subject to the negative procedure.

###### Recovery of expenses

86

86.1

The Bank may, in making a resolution instrument, share transfer instrument or
property transfer instrument in relation to a CCP, direct that CCP to pay the
Bank a specified fee to cover expenses reasonably incurred by the Bank in
connection with exercising that option.

86.2

The Treasury may direct a CCP in relation to which the Bank has made a
resolution instrument, share transfer instrument or property transfer
instrument to pay the Treasury a specified fee to cover expenses reasonably
incurred by the Treasury in connection with the exercise by the Bank of that
power in relation to the CCP.

###### Compensation scheme

87

87.1

The Treasury may by regulations make provision for protecting the financial
interests of relevant persons in connection with the making of a stabilisation
instrument in respect of a CCP.

87.2

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1) regulations may make provision
establishing a scheme, which may for example include provision—

87.2.a

for determining whether relevant persons should be paid compensation or
providing for relevant persons to be paid compensation;

87.2.b

for paying any compensation (including payments in instalment or subject to
terms and conditions);

87.2.c

under which specified relevant persons become entitled to the proceeds of
disposal of things transferred under a share transfer instrument or property
transfer instrument.

87.3

In making regulations under this paragraph the Treasury must have regard
(among other matters) to the desirability of ensuring that any person who is a
relevant person before the making of a stabilisation instrument does not
receive less favourable treatment than they would have received had—

87.3.a

the CCP entered insolvency immediately before the stabilisation instrument was
made, and

87.3.b

all the relevant rules of the CCP been applied in the period leading up to the
insolvency.

87.4

The regulations may provide for the amount of compensation payable to relevant
persons to be determined by a person appointed in accordance with the
regulations (an “independent valuer”).

87.5

The regulations may make such further provision about independent valuers as
the Treasury consider to be appropriate, including (among other things)—

87.5.a

provision about appointment and tenure,

87.5.b

provision for remuneration of independent valuers and their staff,

87.5.c

provision conferring functions on independent valuers (including conferring a
discretion),

87.5.d

provision specifying principles to be applied by independent valuers to
determine the amount of compensation,

87.5.e

provision about the procedure to be followed by independent valuers,

87.5.f

provision about the liability of independent valuers, and

87.5.g

provision about appeals against decisions by independent valuers (including
conferring jurisdiction on a court or tribunal).

87.6

The regulations may provide for compensation or other payments to be made by—

87.6.a

the Treasury, or

87.6.b

any other specified persons.

87.7

In this paragraph—

      references to “insolvency” include a reference to—         liquidation,
administration,           receivership,           a composition with
creditors, and           a scheme of arrangement;                 “ relevant
person ”, in relation to a CCP, means—         clearing members of the CCP;
creditors of the CCP;           shareholders of the CCP;           clients
within the meaning of Article 2 of EMIR where they have a contractual
relationship as principal with the CCP.

87.8

Regulations under this paragraph are subject to the affirmative procedure.

###### Instruments: notification of members and creditors

88

88.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank has applied one or more of the
stabilisation options in respect of a CCP.

88.2

Except where securities issued by the CCP have been admitted to trading on a
regulated market (within the meaning given in section 103(1) of FSMA 2000),
the Bank must send a copy of any property transfer instrument, share transfer
instrument or resolution instrument made in respect of the CCP to each of the
following persons who are known to the Bank—

88.2.a

the CCP’s shareholders or, if the CCP is an unincorporated association, its
members, and

88.2.b

creditors of the CCP.

###### General continuity obligation: property transfers

89

89.1

In this paragraph—

89.1.a

“ residual CCP ” means a CCP all or part of whose business has been
transferred under a property transfer instrument in accordance with paragraph
27(2) , 29(3), 66(2) or 73(2),

89.1.b

“ group company ” means anything which is, or was immediately before the
transfer, a group undertaking in relation to a residual CCP,

89.1.c

“ group undertaking ” has the meaning given by section 1161(5) of the
Companies Act 2006,

89.1.d

“ the transferred business ” means the part of the CCP’s business that has
been transferred, and

89.1.e

“ transferee ” means a commercial purchaser or bridge central counterparty to
whom all or part of the transferred business has been transferred.

89.2

In this paragraph a reference to insolvency includes a reference to
liquidation, administration, receivership, composition with creditors and a
scheme of arrangement.

89.3

The residual CCP and each group company must provide such services and
facilities as are required to enable a transferee to operate the transferred
business, or part of it, effectively.

89.4

The duty under sub-paragraph  (3)  (the “continuity obligation”) may be
enforced as if created by contract between the residual CCP or group company
and the transferee.

89.5

The continuity obligation continues to apply despite the residual CCP or group
company entering insolvency, and may not be disclaimed by a liquidator under
section 178(2) of the Insolvency Act 1986 or Article 152(1) of the Insolvency
(Northern Ireland) Order 1989.

89.6

The duty to provide services and facilities in pursuance of the continuity
obligation is subject to a right to receive reasonable consideration.

89.7

But if the services and facilities provided in pursuance of the continuity
obligation were provided to the CCP whose business has been transferred, under
an agreement with that CCP, before the property transfer instrument providing
for the transfer was made, they are to continue for the duration of that
agreement to be provided on the terms set out in that agreement (and sub-
paragraph  (6)  does not apply).

89.8

The continuity obligation is not limited to the provision of services or
facilities directly to a transferee.

89.9

The Bank may, with the consent of the Treasury, by notice to the residual CCP
or a group company state that in the Bank’s opinion—

89.9.a

specified activities are required to be undertaken in accordance with the
continuity obligation;

89.9.b

activities are required to be undertaken in accordance with the continuity
obligation on specified terms.

89.10

A notice under sub-paragraph  (9)  is to be determinative of the nature and
extent of the continuity obligation as from the time when the notice is given.

###### Special continuity obligations: property transfers

90

90.1

Expressions in this paragraph have the same meaning as in paragraph  89 .

90.2

The Bank may—

90.2.a

cancel a contract or other arrangement between the residual CCP and a group
company or a third party (whether or not rights or obligations under it have
been transferred to a transferee);

90.2.b

modify the terms of a contract or other arrangement between the residual CCP
and a group company or a third party (whether or not rights or obligations
under it have been transferred to a transferee);

90.2.c

add or substitute a transferee as a party to a contract or other arrangement
between the residual CCP and a group company or a third party;

90.2.d

confer and impose rights and obligations on a group company or third party and
a transferee, which must have effect as if created by contract between them;

90.2.e

confer and impose rights and obligations on the residual CCP and a transferee
which must have effect as if created by contract between them.

90.3

In modifying or setting terms under sub-paragraph  (2)  the Bank must aim, so
far as is reasonably practicable, to preserve or include—

90.3.a

provision for reasonable consideration, and

90.3.b

any other provision that would be expected in arrangements concluded between
parties dealing at arm’s length.

90.4

The power under sub-paragraph  (2) —

90.4.a

may be exercised only in so far as the Bank thinks it necessary to ensure the
provision of such services and facilities as are required to enable the
transferee to operate the transferred business, or part of it, effectively,

90.4.b

may be exercised only with the consent of the Treasury, and

90.4.c

must be exercised by way of provision in a property transfer instrument.

90.5

An obligation imposed on the residual CCP or a group company under sub-
paragraph (2)(d) or (e) continues to apply despite the residual CCP or group
company entering insolvency, and may not be disclaimed by a liquidator under
section 178(2) of the Insolvency Act 1986 or Article 152(1) of the Insolvency
(Northern Ireland) Order 1989.

###### Continuity obligations: onward property transfers

91

91.1

In this paragraph—

91.1.a

“ onward transfer ” means a transfer of property, rights or liabilities
(whether or not under a power in this Schedule) from—

91.1.a.i

a person who is a transferee under a property transfer instrument under
paragraph  29(3)  (an “original transferee”), or

91.1.a.ii

a CCP, securities issued by which were earlier transferred by a share transfer
instrument under paragraph  29(3)  or  30(2) , and

91.1.b

the person to whom the onward transfer is made is referred to as an “ onward
transferee ”.

91.2

The Bank may—

91.2.a

provide for an obligation under paragraph  89  to apply in respect of an
onward transferee;

91.2.b

extend paragraph  90  so as to permit action to be taken under paragraph
90(2)  for the purpose of enabling an onward transferee to operate the
transferred business, or part of it, effectively.

91.3

Sub-paragraph  (2)  may be relied on to impose obligations on—

91.3.a

an original transferee (where the original transfer was a property transfer),

91.3.b

a residual CCP within the meaning of paragraph  89  (where the original
transfer was a property transfer),

91.3.c

the CCP (where the original transfer was a share transfer),

91.3.d

anything which is or was a group undertaking (within the meaning of section
1161(5) of the Companies Act 2006) of anything within paragraphs  (a)  to  (c)
, or

91.3.e

any combination of the above.

91.4

Sub-paragraph  (2)  may be used to impose obligations—

91.4.a

in addition to obligations under or by virtue of paragraph  89  or  90 , or

91.4.b

replacing obligations under or by virtue of either of those paragraphs to a
specified extent.

91.5

A power under sub-paragraph  (2)  is exercisable by giving a notice to each
person—

91.5.a

on whom a continuity obligation is to be imposed under the power, or

91.5.b

who is expected to benefit from a continuity obligation under the power.

91.6

Paragraphs  89(3)  to  (10)  and  90(3)  and  (4)  apply to an obligation as
applied under sub-paragraph  (2) —

91.6.a

construing “transferred business” as the business transferred by means of the
onward transfer, and

91.6.b

with any other necessary modification.

91.7

The Bank may act under or by virtue of sub-paragraph  (2)  only with the
consent of the Treasury.

###### General continuity obligation: share transfers

92

92.1

In this paragraph and paragraph  93 —

92.1.a

“ transferred CCP ” means a CCP all or part of the ownership of which has been
transferred in accordance with paragraph  27(2) ,  29(3) , or  30(2) ,

92.1.b

“ former group company ” means anything which was a group undertaking in
relation to the transferred CCP immediately before the transfer (whether or
not it is also a group undertaking in relation to the transferred CCP
immediately after the transfer),

92.1.c

“ group undertaking ” has the meaning given by section 1161(5) of the
Companies Act 2006.

92.2

In this paragraph a reference to insolvency includes a reference to
liquidation, administration, receivership, composition with creditors and a
scheme of arrangement.

92.3

Each former group company must provide such services and facilities as are
required to enable the transferred CCP to operate effectively.

92.4

The duty under sub-paragraph  (3)  (the “continuity obligation”) may be
enforced as if created by contract between the transferred CCP and the former
group company.

92.5

The continuity obligation continues to apply despite the former group company
entering insolvency, and may not be disclaimed by a liquidator under section
178(2) of the Insolvency Act 1986 or Article 152(1) of the Insolvency
(Northern Ireland) Order 1989.

92.6

The duty to provide services and facilities in pursuance of the continuity
obligation is subject to a right to receive reasonable consideration.

92.7

But if the services and facilities provided in pursuance of the continuity
obligation were provided to the transferred CCP, under an agreement with that
CCP, before the share transfer instrument providing for the transfer was made,
they are to continue for the duration of that agreement to be provided on the
terms set out in that agreement (and sub-paragraph  (6)  does not apply).

92.8

The continuity obligation is not limited to the provision of services or
facilities directly to the transferred CCP.

92.9

The Bank may by notice to a former group company state that in the Bank’s
opinion—

92.9.a

specified activities are required to be undertaken in accordance with the
continuity obligation;

92.9.b

activities are required to be undertaken in accordance with the continuity
obligation on specified terms.

92.10

A notice under sub-paragraph  (9)  is to be determinative of the nature and
extent of the continuity obligation as from the time when the notice is given.

92.11

The Bank may act under or by virtue of sub-paragraph  (9)  only with the
consent of the Treasury.

###### Special continuity obligations: share transfers

93

93.1

Expressions in this paragraph have the same meaning as in paragraph  92 .

93.2

The Bank may—

93.2.a

cancel a contract or other arrangement between the transferred CCP and a
former group company or a third party;

93.2.b

modify the terms of a contract or other arrangement between the transferred
CCP and a former group company or a third party;

93.2.c

confer and impose rights and obligations on a former group company or a third
party and the transferred CCP, which has effect as if created by contract
between them.

93.3

In modifying or setting terms under sub-paragraph  (2)  the Bank must aim, so
far as is reasonably practicable, to preserve or include—

93.3.a

a provision for reasonable consideration, and

93.3.b

any other provision that would be expected in arrangements concluded between
parties dealing at arm’s length.

93.4

The power under sub-paragraph  (2) —

93.4.a

may be exercised only in so far as the Bank thinks it necessary to ensure the
provision of such services and facilities as are required to enable the
transferred CCP to operate effectively,

93.4.b

may be exercised by the Bank only with the consent of the Treasury, and

93.4.c

must be exercised by way of provision in a share transfer instrument.

93.5

An obligation imposed on the transferred CCP or a former group company under
sub-paragraph (2)(b) or (c) continues to apply despite the transferred CCP or
former group company entering insolvency, and may not be disclaimed by a
liquidator under section 178(2) of the Insolvency Act 1986 or Article 152(1)
of the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989.

###### Continuity obligations: onward share transfers

94

94.1

In this paragraph “ onward transfer ” means a transfer (whether or not under a
power in this Schedule) of securities issued by a CCP where—

94.1.a

securities issued by the CCP were earlier transferred by a share transfer
instrument under paragraph  29(3)  or  30(2) , or

94.1.b

the CCP was the transferee under a property transfer instrument under
paragraph  29(3) .

94.2

The Bank may—

94.2.a

provide for an obligation under paragraph  92  to apply in respect of the CCP
after the onward transfer;

94.2.b

extend paragraph  93  so as to permit action to be taken under paragraph
93(2)  to enable the CCP to operate effectively after the onward transfer.

94.3

Sub-paragraph  (2)  may be relied on to impose obligations on—

94.3.a

the CCP,

94.3.b

anything which is or was a group undertaking (within the meaning of section
1161(5) of the Companies Act 2006) of the CCP,

94.3.c

anything which is or was a group undertaking of the residual CCP (in a case to
which sub-paragraph  (1)(b)  applies), or

94.3.d

any combination of the above.

94.4

Sub-paragraph  (2)  may be used to impose obligations—

94.4.a

in addition to obligations under or by virtue of paragraph  92  or  93 , or

94.4.b

replacing obligations under or by virtue of either of those paragraphs to a
specified extent.

94.5

A power under sub-paragraph  (2)  is exercisable by giving a notice to each
person—

94.5.a

on whom a continuity obligation is to be imposed under the power, or

94.5.b

who is expected to benefit from a continuity obligation under the power.

94.6

Paragraphs  92(4)  to  (10)  and 94(3) and (4) apply to an obligation as
applied under sub-paragraph  (2)  with any necessary modification.

94.7

The Bank may act under or by virtue of sub-paragraph  (2)  only with the
consent of the Treasury.

###### Continuity obligations: consideration and terms

95

95.1

The Treasury may by regulations specify matters which are to be or not to be
considered in determining—

95.1.a

what amounts to reasonable consideration for the purpose of paragraphs  89  to
94 ;

95.1.b

what provisions to include in accordance with paragraph  90(3)(b)  or
93(3)(b) .

95.2

The Bank may give guarantees or indemnities in respect of consideration for
services or facilities provided or to be provided in pursuance of a continuity
obligation.

95.3

Regulations under this paragraph are subject to the negative procedure.

###### Continuity obligations: termination

96

96.1

The Bank may by notice terminate an obligation arising under paragraph  89  or
92 .

96.2

The power under sub-paragraph  (1)  is exercisable by giving a notice to each
person—

96.2.a

on whom the obligation is imposed, or

96.2.b

who has benefited or might have expected to benefit from the obligation.

96.3

A reference in sub-paragraph  (1)  to obligations under a paragraph includes a
reference to obligations under that paragraph as applied under paragraph  91
or  94 .

###### Suspension of obligations

97

97.1

Where the Bank is exercising a stabilisation power in respect of a CCP (a “CCP
under resolution”) the Bank may suspend obligations to make a payment, or
delivery, under a contract where one of the parties to the contract is the CCP
under resolution.

97.2

A suspension imposed under sub-paragraph  (1)  does not apply to—

97.2.a

payments of eligible claims, or

97.2.b

payments or deliveries to excluded persons (see paragraph  100 ).

97.3

A suspension imposed under sub-paragraph  (1) —

97.3.a

begins when the instrument providing for the suspension is first published,

97.3.b

must end no later than midnight at the end of the first business day following
the day on which the instrument providing for the suspension is published, and

97.3.c

subject to sub-paragraph  (2) , suspends all obligations to make a payment or
delivery under the contract in question, whether the obligation concerned is
that of the CCP under resolution or of any other party to the contract.

97.4

Where a payment or delivery under the contract concerned first fell due within
the period of the suspension, that payment or delivery is treated as being due
immediately on the expiry of the suspension.

97.5

The power under sub-paragraph  (1)  must be exercised by way of provision in a
share transfer instrument, property transfer instrument, resolution instrument
or third-country instrument.

97.6

The Bank must have regard to the impact a suspension might have on the orderly
functioning of the financial markets before exercising the power in sub-
paragraph  (1) .

97.7

In this paragraph, “ eligible claim ” means a claim in respect of which
compensation is payable under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.

###### Restriction of security interests

98

98.1

Where the Bank is exercising a stabilisation power in respect of a CCP (a “CCP
under resolution”) the Bank may suspend the rights of a secured creditor of
the CCP to enforce any security interest the creditor has in relation to any
assets of the CCP.

98.2

A suspension under sub-paragraph  (1) —

98.2.a

begins when the instrument providing for the suspension is first published,
and

98.2.b

must end no later than midnight at the end of the first business day following
the day on which that instrument is published.

98.3

But the Bank may not suspend the rights of an excluded person to enforce any
security interest that person may have in relation to any asset of the CCP
under resolution which has been pledged or provided to the excluded person in
question as collateral or as cover for margin.

98.4

The power under sub-paragraph  (1)  must be exercised by way of provision in a
share transfer instrument, property transfer instrument, resolution instrument
or third-country instrument.

98.5

Where the power in sub-paragraph  (1)  is being exercised in a partial
property transfer, the Bank must ensure that any restrictions on the
enforcement of security interests which it imposes under that sub-paragraph
are applied consistently for all CCP group companies in respect of which the
Bank is exercising a stabilisation power.

98.6

The Bank must have regard to the impact a suspension might have on the orderly
functioning of the financial markets before exercising the power in sub-
paragraph  (1) .

98.7

For the purposes of this paragraph, a “ security interest ” means an interest
or right held for the purpose of securing the payment of money or the
performance of any other obligation.

###### Suspension of termination rights

99

99.1

The Bank may suspend the termination right of any party to a qualifying
contract (other than a party who is an excluded person).

99.2

A contract is a “qualifying contract” for the purpose of this paragraph if—

99.2.a

one of the parties to the contract is a CCP in respect of which the Bank is
exercising a stabilisation power (a “CCP under resolution”) and all the
obligations under the contract to make a payment, make delivery or provide
collateral continue to be performed, or

99.2.b

one of the parties to the contract is a subsidiary of a CCP under resolution
and the condition in sub-paragraph  (3)  is met.

99.3

The condition is that—

99.3.a

the obligations of the subsidiary are guaranteed or otherwise supported by the
CCP under resolution,

99.3.b

the termination rights under the contract are triggered by the insolvency or
the financial condition of the CCP under resolution, and

99.3.c

if a property transfer instrument has been made in relation to the CCP under
resolution—

99.3.c.i

all the assets and liabilities relating to the contract have been or are being
transferred to, or assumed by, a single transferee, or

99.3.c.ii

the Bank is providing adequate protection for the performance of the
obligations of the subsidiary under the contract in any other way.

99.4

The Bank must have regard to the impact a suspension might have on the orderly
functioning of the financial markets before exercising the power in sub-
paragraph  (1) .

99.5

The power under sub-paragraph  (1)  must be exercised by way of provision in a
share transfer instrument, property transfer instrument, resolution instrument
or third-country instrument.

99.6

A suspension imposed under sub-paragraph  (1) —

99.6.a

begins when the instrument providing for the suspension is first published,
and

99.6.b

must end no later than midnight at the end of the first business day following
the day on which that instrument is published.

99.7

A person may exercise a termination right under a contract before the expiry
of the suspension if that person is given notice by the Bank that the rights
and liabilities of the CCP under resolution covered by the contract are not—

99.7.a

to be transferred to another undertaking through the exercise of a
stabilisation power, or

99.7.b

to be made subject to a share transfer instrument, property transfer
instrument, resolution instrument or third-country instrument.

99.8

If—

99.8.a

no notice has been given by the Bank under sub-paragraph  (7) , and

99.8.b

a termination right has been triggered otherwise than through the exercise of
a stabilisation power or the imposition of a suspension under sub-paragraph
(1) (or the occurrence of an event directly linked to the exercise of a
stabilisation power),

a person may, on the expiry of the suspension, exercise the termination right
in accordance with the terms of the contract.

99.9

But, where the rights and liabilities of the CCP under resolution or the
subsidiary under the contract have been transferred to another undertaking,
sub-paragraph  (8)  applies only if the event giving rise to the termination
right has been triggered by that undertaking.

99.10

For the purposes of this paragraph, “ termination right ” means—

99.10.a

a right to terminate a contract,

99.10.b

a right to accelerate, close out, set-off or net obligations, or any similar
provision that suspends, modifies or extinguishes an obligation of a party to
the contract, or

99.10.c

a provision that prevents an obligation from arising under the contract.

###### Suspension: general provision

100

For the purposes of paragraphs  97  to  99 —

      “ business day ” means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday, or a day
which is a bank holiday under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971 in
any part of the United Kingdom;           “ excluded person ” means—         a
person who has been declared to be, or who is an operator of, a designated
system under regulation 4 of the Financial Markets and Insolvency (Settlement
Finality) Regulations 1999 ( S.I. 1999/2979 ),           a CCP,           a
third-country central counterparty (within the meaning given by section 285 of
FSMA 2000), or           a central bank.

###### Stay on terminating membership

101

101.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank has made a resolution instrument, share
transfer instrument or a property transfer instrument in relation to a CCP.

101.2

A clearing member of the CCP may not at any time during the relevant period
terminate their membership of the CCP.

101.3

The “ relevant period ” for the purposes of sub-paragraph  (2)  is the period
of 48 hours beginning with the time the instrument in question comes into
force.

101.4

A resolution instrument, share transfer instrument or property transfer
instrument in relation to a CCP may provide for sub-paragraph  (2) —

101.4.a

not to apply in relation to clearing members of the CCP, or

101.4.b

to apply in relation to clearing members of the CCP only to the extent
specified by the Bank in the instrument.

101.5

Provision may be made under sub-paragraph  (4)  only if the Bank considers
that such provision would advance one or more of the special resolution
objectives.

###### Restriction on remuneration

102

102.1

The Bank may restrict or prohibit for a specified period discretionary
payments to specified employees or specified shareholders of a CCP.

102.2

The power under sub-paragraph  (1)  must be exercised by way of provision in a
share transfer instrument, property transfer instrument or resolution
instrument.

102.3

The specified period for the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1)  must not exceed 5
years (but this is subject to sub-paragraph  (4) ).

102.4

A provision under sub-paragraph  (1)  restricting or prohibiting discretionary
payments in relation to a CCP ceases to have effect if—

102.4.a

any of the conditions under paragraph  17  cease to be met in relation to the
CCP, and

102.4.b

the Bank is satisfied that following the exercise of any of the stabilisation
powers in relation to the CCP, the CCP has sufficient resources to pay
compensation and repay any public funds in connection with the exercise of
those powers.

102.5

In this paragraph—

      “ discretionary payments ” has the meaning given in paragraph  13 ;
“ specified ” means specified in the instrument under sub-paragraph  (2) .

###### Pensions

103

103.1

This paragraph applies to—

103.1.a

share transfer instruments, and

103.1.b

property transfer instruments.

103.2

An instrument may make provision—

103.2.a

about the consequences of a transfer for a pension scheme;

103.2.b

about property, rights and liabilities of any pension scheme of the CCP.

103.3

In particular, an instrument may—

103.3.a

modify any rights and liabilities,

103.3.b

apportion rights and liabilities, or

103.3.c

transfer property of, or accrued rights in, one pension scheme to another
(with or without consent).

103.4

Provision by virtue of this paragraph may (but need not) amend the terms of a
pension scheme.

103.5

A share or property transfer instrument may make provision in reliance on this
paragraph only with the consent of the Treasury.

103.6

In this paragraph—

103.6.a

“ pension scheme ” includes any arrangement for the payment of pension,
allowances and gratuities, and

103.6.b

a reference to a pension scheme of a CCP is a reference to a scheme in respect
of which the CCP, or a CCP group company, is or was an employer.

###### Disputes

104

104.1

This paragraph applies to—

104.1.a

share transfer instruments,

104.1.b

property transfer instruments,

104.1.c

resolution instruments, and

104.1.d

third-country instruments.

104.2

An instrument may include provision for disputes to be determined in a
specified manner.

104.3

Provision by virtue of sub-paragraph  (2)  may, in particular—

104.3.a

confer jurisdiction on a court or tribunal;

104.3.b

confer discretion on a specified person.

###### Tax

105

105.1

The Treasury may by regulations make provision about the fiscal consequences
of the exercise of a stabilisation power.

105.2

Regulations may relate to—

105.2.a

capital gains tax,

105.2.b

corporation tax,

105.2.c

income tax,

105.2.d

inheritance tax,

105.2.e

stamp duty,

105.2.f

stamp duty land tax, or

105.2.g

stamp duty reserve tax.

105.3

Regulations may apply to—

105.3.a

anything done in connection with an instrument,

105.3.b

things transferred or otherwise affected by virtue of an instrument,

105.3.c

a transferor or transferee under an instrument, and

105.3.d

persons otherwise affected by an instrument.

105.4

Regulations may—

105.4.a

modify or disapply an enactment;

105.4.b

provide for an action to have or not have specified consequences;

105.4.c

provide for specified classes of property (including securities), rights or
liabilities to be treated, or not treated, in a specified way;

105.4.d

withdraw or restrict a relief;

105.4.e

extend, restrict or otherwise modify a charge to tax;

105.4.f

provide for matters to be determined by the Treasury in accordance with
provision made by or in accordance with the regulations.

105.5

Regulations may make provision for the fiscal consequences of the exercise of
a stabilisation power in respect of things done—

105.5.a

during the period of three months before the date on which the stabilisation
power is exercised, or

105.5.b

on or after that date.

105.6

In relation to the exercise of a supplemental, onward, bridge or subsequent
instrument under paragraph  49 ,  50 , 52, 66,  67 ,  69 ,  71 ,  73  or  82 ,
in sub-paragraph  (5)(a)  above “ the stabilisation power ” is a reference to
the first stabilisation power in connection with which the supplemental,
onward, bridge or subsequent instrument is made.

105.7

The Treasury may by regulations amend sub-paragraph  (2)  so as to—

105.7.a

add an entry, or

105.7.b

remove an entry.

105.8

Regulations under this paragraph are subject to the affirmative procedure.

###### Stay or sist of legal proceedings

106

106.1

This paragraph applies where—

106.1.a

the Bank has exercised a stabilisation power in relation to a CCP or a CCP
group company, and

106.1.b

the CCP or CCP group company is a party to legal proceedings before a court in
the United Kingdom.

106.2

The Bank may apply to that court for a stay or sist of proceedings where the
Bank reasonably considers that a stay or sist of those proceedings is
necessary for an effective application of the stabilisation options or the
stabilisation powers.

###### Insolvency proceedings

107

107.1

This paragraph applies to a CCP if—

107.1.a

a stabilisation power has been exercised in respect of the CCP, or

107.1.b

the conditions in paragraph  17  are met in relation to the CCP.

107.2

Insolvency proceedings may not be commenced in relation to the CCP except by,
or with the consent of, the Bank.

107.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (2) , the commencement of insolvency
proceedings means—

107.3.a

making an application for an administration order,

107.3.b

presenting a petition for winding up,

107.3.c

proposing a resolution for voluntary winding up, or

107.3.d

appointing an administrator.

###### Recognition of transferee company

108

108.1

The Bank may provide for a company to which the business of a CCP is
transferred in accordance with paragraph  29(3)  to be treated as a CCP for
the purposes of FSMA 2000—

108.1.a

for a specified period, or

108.1.b

until a specified event occurs.

108.2

The provision may have effect—

108.2.a

for a period specified in the instrument, or

108.2.b

until the occurrence of an event specified or described in the instrument.

108.3

The power under this paragraph—

108.3.a

may be exercised only with the consent of the Treasury, and

108.3.b

must be exercised by way of provision in a property transfer instrument.

###### International obligation notice: general

109

109.1

The Bank may not exercise a stabilisation power in respect of a CCP if the
Treasury notify the Bank that the exercise would be likely to contravene an
international obligation of the United Kingdom.

109.2

A notice under sub-paragraph  (1) —

109.2.a

must be in writing, and

109.2.b

may be withdrawn (generally, partially or conditionally).

109.3

If the Treasury give a notice under sub-paragraph  (1)  the Bank must consider
other exercises of the stabilisation powers with a view to—

109.3.a

pursuing the special resolution objectives, and

109.3.b

avoiding the objections on which the Treasury’s notice was based.

109.4

The Treasury may by notice to the Bank disapply sub-paragraph  (3)  in respect
of a CCP and a notice may be revoked by further notice.

###### International obligation notice: bridge central counterparty

110

110.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank has transferred all or part of a CCP’s
business to a bridge central counterparty.

110.2

The Bank must comply with any notice of the Treasury requiring the Bank, for
the purpose of ensuring compliance by the United Kingdom with its
international obligations—

110.2.a

to take specified action under this Schedule in respect of the bridge central
counterparty, or

110.2.b

not to take specified action under this Schedule in respect of the bridge
central counterparty.

110.3

A notice under sub-paragraph  (2) —

110.3.a

must be in writing, and

110.3.b

may be withdrawn (generally, partially or conditionally).

110.4

A notice may include requirements about timing.

###### Public funds: general

111

111.1

The Bank may not exercise a stabilisation power in respect of a CCP without
the Treasury’s consent if the exercise of that power would be likely to have
implications for public funds.

111.2

In sub-paragraph  (1) —

111.2.a

“ public funds ” means the Consolidated Fund and any other account or source
of money which cannot be drawn or spent other than by, or with the authority
of, the Treasury, and

111.2.b

action has implications for public funds if it would or might involve or lead
to a need for the application of public funds.

111.3

The Treasury may by regulations specify considerations which are to be, or not
to be, taken into account in determining whether action has implications for
public funds for the purpose of sub-paragraph  (1) .

111.4

If the Treasury refuse consent under sub-paragraph  (1) , the Bank must
consider other exercises of the stabilisation powers with a view to—

111.4.a

pursuing the special resolution objectives, and

111.4.b

avoiding the objections on which the Treasury’s refusal was based.

111.5

The Treasury may by notice to the Bank disapply sub-paragraph  (4)  in respect
of a CCP; and a notice may be revoked by further notice.

111.6

Regulations under this paragraph are subject to the negative procedure.

###### Public funds: bridge central counterparty

112

112.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank has transferred all or part of a CCP’s
business to a bridge central counterparty.

112.2

The Bank may not take action in respect of the bridge central counterparty
without the Treasury’s consent if the action would be likely to have
implications for public funds.

112.3

Paragraph  111 (2)  and  (3)  have effect for the purposes of this paragraph.

###### Private sector purchaser: report

113

113.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank sells all or part of a CCP’s business to
a commercial purchaser.

113.2

The Bank must report to the Chancellor of the Exchequer about the exercise of
the power to make share transfer instruments and property transfer instruments
under paragraph  27(2) .

113.3

The report must comply with any requirements as to content specified by the
Treasury.

113.4

The report must be made as soon as is reasonably practicable after the end of
one year beginning with the date of the first transfer instrument made under
paragraph  27(2) .

###### Bridge central counterparty: report

114

114.1

Where the Bank transfers all or part of a CCP’s business to a bridge central
counterparty, the Bank must report to the Chancellor of the Exchequer about
the activities of the bridge central counterparty.

114.2

The first report must be made as soon as is reasonably practicable after the
end of one year beginning with the date of the first transfer to the bridge
central counterparty.

114.3

A report must be made as soon as is reasonably practicable after the end of
each subsequent year.

114.4

The Chancellor of the Exchequer must lay a copy of each report under sub-
paragraph  (2)  or  (3)  before Parliament.

114.5

The Bank must comply with any request of the Treasury for a report dealing
with specified matters in relation to a bridge central counterparty.

114.6

A request under sub-paragraph  (5)  may include provision about—

114.6.a

the content of the report;

114.6.b

timing.

###### Resolution instruments: report

115

115.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank makes one or more resolution instruments
in respect of a CCP.

115.2

The Bank must, on request by the Treasury, report to the Chancellor of the
Exchequer about—

115.2.a

the exercise of the power to make the resolution instrument, and

115.2.b

any other matters in relation to the CCP that the Treasury may specify.

115.3

In relation to the matter specified in sub-paragraph  (2)(a) , the report must
comply with any requirements that the Treasury may specify.

115.4

The Chancellor of the Exchequer must lay a copy of each report under sub-
paragraph  (2)  before Parliament.

###### Transfer of ownership: report

116

116.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank makes one or more share transfer
instruments in respect of a CCP under paragraph  30(2) .

116.2

The Bank must report to the Chancellor of the Exchequer about the exercise of
the power to make share transfer instruments under that paragraph.

116.3

The report must comply with any requirements as to content specified by the
Treasury.

116.4

The report must be made as soon as is reasonably practicable after the end of
one year beginning with the date of the first transfer instrument made under
paragraph  30(2) .

###### Sale to commercial purchaser, transfer to bridge central counterparty and transfer of ownership: conditions for group companies

117

117.1

The Bank may exercise a stabilisation power in respect of a CCP group company
in accordance with paragraph  27(2) ,  29(3)  or  30(2)  if each of the
following conditions is met.

117.2

Condition 1 is that the Bank is satisfied that the general conditions for the
exercise of a stabilisation power set out in paragraph  17  are met in respect
of a CCP in the same group.

117.3

Condition 2 (which does not apply in a financial assistance case) is that the
Bank is satisfied that the exercise of the power in respect of the CCP group
company is necessary, having regard to the public interest in—

117.3.a

the stability of the UK financial system, and

117.3.b

the maintenance of public confidence in the stability of that system.

117.4

Condition 3 (which applies only in a financial assistance case) is that—

117.4.a

the Treasury have recommended the Bank to exercise a stabilisation power on
the grounds that it is necessary to protect the public interest, and

117.4.b

in the Bank’s opinion, exercise of the power in respect of the CCP group
company is an appropriate way to provide that protection.

117.5

Condition 4 is that the CCP group company is an undertaking incorporated in,
or formed under the law of any part of, the United Kingdom.

117.6

Before determining whether Condition 2 or 3 (as appropriate) is met, the Bank
must consult—

117.6.a

the Treasury,

117.6.b

if the CCP is a PRA-authorised person, the PRA, and

117.6.c

the FCA.

117.7

In exercising a stabilisation power in reliance on this paragraph the Bank
must have regard to the need to minimise the effect of the exercise of the
power on other undertakings in the same group.

117.8

In this paragraph “ financial assistance case ” means a case in which the
Treasury notify the Bank that they have provided financial assistance in
respect of a CCP in the same group for the purpose of resolving or reducing a
serious threat to the stability of the UK financial system.

###### Paragraph 

118

118.1

In paragraph  117  references to CCPs includes references to CCP group
companies.

118.2

Where the Bank exercises a stabilisation power in respect of a CCP group
company in reliance on paragraph  117 , the provisions relating to the
stabilisation powers contained in this Schedule (except paragraphs  17  and
19 ) and any other enactment apply (with any necessary modifications) as if
the CCP group company were a CCP.

##### Information, investigation and enforcement

###### Information

119

119.1

This paragraph applies only to information and documents reasonably required
in connection with the exercise by the Bank of functions conferred by or under
this Schedule.

119.2

The Bank may, by notice in writing given to a CCP or CCP group company,
require the CCP or CCP group company—

119.2.a

to provide specified information or information of a specified description, or

119.2.b

to produce specified documents or documents of a specified description.

119.3

The information or documents must be provided or produced—

119.3.a

before the end of such reasonable period as may be specified, and

119.3.b

at such place as may be specified.

119.4

An officer who has written authorisation from the Bank to do so may require a
CCP or CCP group company without delay—

119.4.a

to provide the officer with specified information or information of a
specified description, or

119.4.b

to produce to the officer specified documents or documents of a specified
description.

119.5

The Bank may require any information provided under this paragraph to be
provided in such form as it may reasonably require.

119.6

The Bank may require—

119.6.a

any information provided, whether in a document or otherwise, to be verified
in such manner, or

119.6.b

any document produced to be authenticated in such manner,

as it may reasonably require.

119.7

The powers conferred by sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (4)  may also be exercised
by the Bank to impose requirements on a person who is connected with a CCP.

119.8

“ Officer ” means an officer of the Bank, and includes a member of the Bank’s
staff or an agent of the Bank.

119.9

“ Specified ” means—

119.9.a

in sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) , specified in the notice, and

119.9.b

in sub-paragraph  (4) , specified in the authorisation.

119.10

For the purposes of this paragraph, a person is connected with a CCP if that
person is or has at any relevant time been—

119.10.a

a member of that CCP’s group,

119.10.b

a controller of that CCP (within the meaning of section 422 of FSMA 2000), or

119.10.c

in relation to that CCP, a person mentioned in Part 1 of Schedule 15 to FSMA
2000 (reading references in that Part to the authorised person as references
to the CCP).

###### Reports by skilled persons

120

120.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank has required or could require a person
to whom sub-paragraph  (2)  applies (“ the person concerned ”) to provide
information or produce documents with respect to any matter (“the matter
concerned”) under paragraph  119 .

120.2

This sub-paragraph applies to—

120.2.a

a CCP,

120.2.b

a member of a CCP’s group, or

120.2.c

a person who has at any relevant time been a person falling within paragraph
(a)  or  (b) ,

who is, or was at the relevant time, carrying on a business.

120.3

The Bank may either—

120.3.a

by notice in writing given to the person concerned, require that person to
provide the Bank with a report on the matter concerned, or

120.3.b

itself appoint a person to provide the Bank with a report on the matter
concerned.

120.4

When acting under sub-paragraph  (3)(a) , the Bank may require the report to
be in such form as may be specified in the notice.

120.5

The Bank must give notice of an appointment under sub-paragraph  (3)(b)  to
the person concerned.

120.6

The person appointed to make a report—

120.6.a

must be a person appearing to the Bank to have the skills necessary to make a
report on the matter concerned, and

120.6.b

where the appointment is to be made by the person concerned, must be a person
nominated or approved by the Bank.

120.7

It is the duty of—

120.7.a

the person concerned, and

120.7.b

any person who is providing (or who has at any time provided) services to the
person concerned in relation to the matter concerned,

to give the person appointed to prepare a report all such assistance as the
appointed person may reasonably require.

120.8

The obligation imposed by sub-paragraph  (7)  is enforceable, on the
application of the Bank, by an injunction or, in Scotland, by an order for
specific performance under section 45 of the Court of Session Act 1988.

120.9

The Bank may, in relation to an appointment under sub-paragraph  (3)(b) ,
require a CCP to pay to the Bank a fee to cover the expenses incurred by the
Bank in relation to the appointment.

###### Appointment of persons to carry out general investigations

121

121.1

This paragraph applies only for the purposes of the functions of the Bank
conferred by or under this Schedule.

121.2

If it appears to the Bank that there is a good reason for doing so, the Bank
may appoint one or more competent persons to conduct an investigation on its
behalf into—

121.2.a

the nature, conduct or state of the business of a CCP,

121.2.b

a particular aspect of that business, or

121.2.c

the ownership or control of a CCP.

121.3

If a person appointed under sub-paragraph  (2)  thinks it necessary for the
purposes of the investigation, that person may also investigate the business
of a person who is or has at any relevant time been a member of a group of
which the CCP under investigation is part.

121.4

A person appointed under sub-paragraph  (2)  who decides to investigate the
business of any person under sub-paragraph  (3)  must give that person written
notice of that decision.

121.5

In this paragraph, “ business ” includes any part of a business.

###### Appointment of person to carry out investigations in particular cases

122

122.1

This paragraph applies if it appears to the Bank that there are circumstances
suggesting that a person may have failed to comply with any relevant
requirement.

122.2

The Bank may appoint one or more competent persons to conduct an investigation
on its behalf.

122.3

In this paragraph “ relevant requirement ” means a requirement imposed by or
under this Schedule.

###### Investigations etc in support of foreign resolution authorities

123

123.1

On receiving a request to which sub-paragraph  (3)  applies from a foreign
resolution authority, the Bank may—

123.1.a

exercise the power conferred by paragraph  119 , or

123.1.b

appoint one or more competent persons to investigate any matter.

123.2

Accordingly, for the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1)(a) , paragraph  119  has
effect as if it also referred to information and documents reasonably required
by the Bank to meet such a request.

123.3

This sub-paragraph applies to a request if the request is made by a foreign
resolution authority in connection with the exercise by that authority of
functions in relation to third-country resolution action (within the meaning
of paragraph  145 ) corresponding to the stabilisation powers of the Bank
under this Schedule.

123.4

An investigator appointed under sub-paragraph  (1)(b)  has the same powers as
an investigator appointed under paragraph  122 .

123.5

In deciding whether or not to exercise its investigative power, the Bank may
take into account in particular—

123.5.a

whether, in the territory of the foreign resolution authority concerned,
corresponding assistance would be given to the Bank,

123.5.b

whether the case concerns the breach of a law, or other requirement, which has
no close parallel in the United Kingdom or involves the assertion of a
jurisdiction not recognised by the United Kingdom,

123.5.c

the seriousness of the case and its importance to persons in the United
Kingdom, and

123.5.d

whether it is otherwise appropriate in the public interest to give the
assistance sought.

123.6

The Bank may decide that it will not exercise its investigative power unless
the foreign resolution authority undertakes to make such contribution towards
the cost of its exercise as the Bank considers appropriate.

123.7

“ Foreign resolution authority ” means an authority, in a country or territory
outside the United Kingdom, which exercises functions referred to in sub-
paragraph  (3) .

123.8

“ Investigative power ” means one of the powers mentioned in sub-paragraph
(1) .

###### Investigations: general

124

124.1

This paragraph applies if the Bank appoints one or more competent persons
(“investigators”) under paragraph  121  or  122  to conduct an investigation
on its behalf.

124.2

The Bank must give written notice of the appointment of an investigator to the
person who is the subject of the investigation (“the person under
investigation”).

124.3

A notice under sub-paragraph  (2)  must—

124.3.a

specify the provisions under which, and as a result of which, the investigator
was appointed, and

124.3.b

state the reason for the investigator’s appointment.

124.4

Nothing prevents the Bank from appointing a person who is a member of its
staff as an investigator.

124.5

An investigator must make a report of the investigation to the Bank.

124.6

The Bank may, by a direction to an investigator, control—

124.6.a

the scope of the investigation,

124.6.b

the period during which the investigation is to be conducted,

124.6.c

the conduct of the investigation, and

124.6.d

the reporting of the investigation.

124.7

A direction may, in particular—

124.7.a

confine the investigation to particular matters;

124.7.b

extend the investigation to additional matters;

124.7.c

require the investigator to discontinue the investigation or to take only such
steps as are specified in the direction;

124.7.d

require the investigator to make such interim reports as are so specified.

124.8

If there is a change in the scope or conduct of the investigation and, in the
opinion of the Bank, the person under investigation is likely to be
significantly prejudiced by not being made aware of it, that person must be
given written notice of the change.

124.9

If the appointment is under paragraph  122 , sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (8)  do
not apply if the Bank believes that the notice required by the sub-paragraph
in question would be likely to result in the investigation being frustrated.

###### Powers of persons appointed under paragraph 

125

125.1

This paragraph applies to an investigator appointed under paragraph  121  to
conduct an investigation on behalf of the Bank.

125.2

The investigator may require the person who is the subject of the
investigation (“the person under investigation”) or any person connected with
the person under investigation—

125.2.a

to attend before the investigator at a specified time and place and answer
questions, or

125.2.b

otherwise to provide such information as the investigator may require for the
purposes of the investigation.

125.3

The investigator may also require any person to produce at a specified time
and place any specified documents or documents of a specified description.

125.4

A requirement under sub-paragraph  (2)  or  (3)  may be imposed only so far as
the investigator reasonably considers the question, provision of information
or production of the document to be relevant to the purposes of the
investigation.

125.5

For the purposes of this paragraph, a person (“ B ”) is connected with the
person under investigation (“ A ”) if B is or has at any relevant time been—

125.5.a

a member of A’s group;

125.5.b

a controller of A;

125.5.c

in relation to A, a person mentioned in Part 1 or 2 of Schedule 15 to FSMA
2000 (reading references in those Parts to the authorised person or the person
under investigation as references to A).

125.6

In this paragraph—

      “ controller ” has the meaning given in section 422 of FSMA 2000;
“ specified ” means specified in a notice in writing.

###### Powers of persons appointed as a result of paragraph 

126

126.1

This paragraph applies to an investigator appointed under paragraph  122  to
conduct an investigation on behalf of the Bank.

126.2

The investigator has—

126.2.a

the powers conferred by paragraph  125  on an investigator appointed under
paragraph  121 , and

126.2.b

the powers conferred by sub-paragraphs  (3)  and  (4) .

126.3

The investigator may require the person who is the subject of the
investigation (“the person under investigation”) to give the investigator all
assistance in connection with the investigation which that person is
reasonably able to give.

126.4

The investigator may require a person who is neither the person under
investigation nor a person connected with the person under investigation—

126.4.a

to attend before the investigator at a specified time and place and answer
questions, or

126.4.b

otherwise to provide such information as the investigator may require for the
purposes of the investigation.

126.5

A requirement may only be imposed under sub-paragraph  (4)  if the
investigator is satisfied that the requirement is necessary or expedient for
the purposes of the investigation.

126.6

Paragraph  125 (5)  and  (6)  applies for the purposes of this paragraph.

###### Admissibility of statements made to investigators

127

127.1

A statement made to an investigator appointed under paragraph  121  or  122
by a person in compliance with an information requirement is admissible in
evidence in any proceedings, so long as it also complies with any requirement
governing the admissibility of evidence in the circumstances in question.

127.2

But in criminal proceedings in which that person is charged with an offence to
which this sub-paragraph applies—

127.2.a

no evidence relating to the statement may be adduced, and

127.2.b

no question relating to it may be asked—

by or on behalf of the prosecution, or the Bank (as the case may be), unless
evidence relating to it is adduced, or a question relating to it is asked, in
the proceedings by or on behalf of that person.

127.3

Sub-paragraph  (2)  applies to any offence other than one under—

127.3.a

paragraph  132 ,

127.3.b

section 398 of FSMA 2000 (misleading FCA or PRA: residual cases),

127.3.c

section 5 of the Perjury Act 1911 (false statements made otherwise than on
oath),

127.3.d

section 44(2) of the Criminal Law (Consolidation) (Scotland) Act 1995 (false
statements made otherwise than on oath), or

127.3.e

Article 10 of the Perjury (Northern Ireland) Order 1979 (false declarations
etc).

127.4

“ Information requirement ” means a requirement imposed by an investigator
under paragraph  125 ,  126  or  128 .

###### Information and documents: supplemental provision

128

128.1

If the Bank has power under this Schedule to require a person to produce a
document but if it appears that the document is in the possession of a third
person, that power may be exercised in relation to the third person.

128.2

If a document is produced in response to a requirement imposed under this
Schedule, the person to whom it is produced may—

128.2.a

take copies or extracts from the document, or

128.2.b

require the person producing the document, or any relevant person to provide
an explanation of the document.

128.3

A document so produced may be retained for so long as the person to whom it is
produced considers that it is necessary to retain it (rather than copies of
it) for the purposes for which the document was requested.

128.4

If the person to whom a document is so produced has reasonable grounds for
believing—

128.4.a

that the document may have to be produced for the purposes of any legal
proceedings, and

128.4.b

that it might otherwise be unavailable for those purposes,

it may be retained until the proceedings are concluded.

128.5

If a person who is required under this Schedule to produce a document fails to
do so, the Bank or an investigator may require that person to state, to the
best of that person’s knowledge and belief, where the document is.

128.6

A lawyer may be required under this Schedule to furnish the name and address
of the lawyer’s client.

128.7

No person may be required under this Schedule to disclose information or
produce a document in respect of which the person (“ A ”) owes an obligation
of confidence unless—

128.7.a

A is the person under investigation or a member of that person’s group,

128.7.b

the person to whom the obligation of confidence is owed is the person under
investigation or a member of that person’s group,

128.7.c

the person to whom the obligation of confidence is owed consents to the
disclosure or production, or

128.7.d

the imposing on A of a requirement with respect to such information or
document has been specifically authorised by the Bank.

128.8

If a person claims a lien on a document, its production under this Schedule
does not affect the lien.

128.9

In this paragraph—

      “ controller ” has the meaning given by section 422 of FSMA 2000;
“ investigator ” means a person appointed under paragraph  121  or  122 ;
“ relevant person ”, in relation to a person who is required to produce a
document, means a person who—         has been or is or is proposed to be a
director or controller of that person,           has been or is an auditor of
that person,           has been or is an actuary, accountant or lawyer
appointed or instructed by that person, or           has been or is an
employee of that person.

###### Protected items

129

129.1

A person may not be required under this Schedule to produce, disclose or
permit the inspection of protected items.

129.2

“ Protected items ” means—

129.2.a

communications between a professional legal adviser and that adviser’s client
or any person representing such a client which fall within sub-paragraph  (3)
,

129.2.b

communications between a professional legal adviser, that adviser’s client or
any person representing such a client and any other person which fall within
sub-paragraph  (3)  (as a result of paragraph  (b)  of that sub-paragraph),
and

129.2.c

items which—

129.2.c.i

are enclosed with, or referred to in, such communications,

129.2.c.ii

fall within sub-paragraph  (3) , and

129.2.c.iii

are in the possession of a person entitled to be in possession of them.

129.3

A communication or item falls within this sub-paragraph if it is made—

129.3.a

in connection with the giving of legal advice to the client, or

129.3.b

in connection with, or in contemplation of, legal proceedings and for the
purposes of those proceedings.

129.4

A communication or item is not a protected item if it is held with the
intention of furthering a criminal purpose.

###### Entry of premises under warrant

130

130.1

A justice of the peace may issue a warrant under this paragraph if satisfied
on information on oath given by or on behalf of the Secretary of State, the
Bank or an investigator that there are reasonable grounds for believing that
the first, second or third set of conditions is satisfied.

130.2

The first set of conditions is—

130.2.a

that a person on whom an information requirement has been imposed has failed
(wholly or in part) to comply with it, and

130.2.b

that on the premises specified in the warrant—

130.2.b.i

there are documents which have been required, or

130.2.b.ii

there is information which has been required.

130.3

The second set of conditions is—

130.3.a

that the premises specified in the warrant are premises of a CCP or a member
of the same group as a CCP,

130.3.b

that there are on the premises documents or information in relation to which
an information requirement could be imposed, and

130.3.c

that if such a requirement were to be imposed—

130.3.c.i

it would not be complied with, or

130.3.c.ii

the documents or information to which it related would be removed, tampered
with or destroyed.

130.4

The third set of conditions is—

130.4.a

that an offence mentioned in paragraph  132  has been (or is being) committed
by any person,

130.4.b

that there are on the premises specified in the warrant documents or
information relevant to whether that offence has been (or is being) committed,

130.4.c

that an information requirement could be imposed in relation to those
documents or that information, and

130.4.d

that if such a requirement were to be imposed—

130.4.d.i

it would not be complied with, or

130.4.d.ii

the documents or information to which it related would be removed, tampered
with or destroyed.

130.5

A warrant under this paragraph authorises a constable—

130.5.a

to enter the premises specified in the warrant,

130.5.b

to search the premises and take possession of any documents or information
appearing to be documents or information of a kind in respect of which a
warrant under this paragraph was issued (“ the relevant kind ”) or to take, in
relation to any such documents or information, any such steps which may appear
to be necessary for preserving them or preventing interference with them,

130.5.c

to take copies of, or extracts from, any documents or information appearing to
be of the relevant kind,

130.5.d

to require any person on the premises to provide an explanation of any
document or information appearing to be of the relevant kind or to state where
it may be found, and

130.5.e

to use such force as may be reasonably necessary.

130.6

A warrant under this paragraph may be executed by any constable.

130.7

The warrant may authorise persons to accompany any constable who is executing
it.

130.8

The powers in sub-paragraph  (5)  may be exercised by a person authorised by
the warrant to accompany a constable; but that person may exercise those
powers only in the company of, and under the supervision of, a constable.

130.9

In England and Wales, sections 15(5) to (8) and 16(3) to (12) of the Police
and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (execution of search warrants and safeguards)
apply to warrants issued under this paragraph.

130.10

In Northern Ireland, Articles 17(5) to (8) and 18(3) to (12) of the Police and
Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 apply to warrants issued under
this paragraph.

130.11

In the application of this paragraph to Northern Ireland the reference to a
justice of the peace is a reference to a lay magistrate.

130.12

In the application of this paragraph to Scotland—

130.12.a

for the reference to a justice of the peace substitute references to a justice
of the peace or a sheriff, and

130.12.b

for the references to information on oath substitute references to evidence on
oath.

130.13

“ Investigator ” means an investigator appointed under paragraph  121  or  122
.

130.14

“ Information requirement ” means a requirement imposed—

130.14.a

by the Bank under paragraph  119  or  128 , or

130.14.b

by an investigator under paragraph  125 ,  126  or  128 .

###### Retention of documents obtained under paragraph 

131

131.1

Any document of which possession is taken under paragraph  130  (“a seized
document”) may be retained for so long as it is necessary to retain it (rather
than copies of it) in the circumstances.

131.2

A person claiming to be the owner of a seized document may apply to a
magistrates’ court, or in Scotland the sheriff, for an order for the delivery
of the document to the person appearing to the court or sheriff to be the
owner.

131.3

If on an application under sub-paragraph  (2)  the court, or in Scotland the
sheriff, cannot ascertain who is the owner of the seized document the court or
sheriff (as the case may be) may make such order as the court or sheriff
thinks fit.

131.4

An order under sub-paragraph  (2)  or  (3)  does not affect the right of any
person to take legal proceedings against any person in possession of a seized
document for the recovery of the document.

131.5

Any right to bring proceedings (as described in sub-paragraph  (4) ) may only
be exercised within 6 months of the date of the order made under sub-paragraph
(2)  or  (3) .

###### Offences etc

132

132.1

If a person other than the investigator (“ the defaulter ”) fails to comply
with a requirement imposed on the defaulter under paragraph  125 ,  126  or
128 , the person imposing the requirement may certify that fact in writing to
the court.

132.2

If the court is satisfied that the defaulter has failed without reasonable
excuse to comply with the requirement, it may deal with the defaulter (and, in
the case of a body corporate, any director or other officer) as if that person
were in contempt.

132.3

“ Officer ”, in relation to a limited liability partnership, means a member of
the limited liability partnership.

132.4

A person who knows or suspects that an investigation is being or is likely to
be conducted under paragraph  121 ,  122  or  123  is guilty of an offence if—

132.4.a

that person falsifies, conceals, destroys or otherwise disposes of a document
which that person knows or suspects is or would be relevant to such an
investigation, or

132.4.b

that person causes or permits the falsification, concealment, destruction or
disposal of such a document,

unless that person shows that that person had no intention of concealing facts
disclosed by the document from the investigator.

132.5

A person who, in purported compliance with a requirement imposed on that
person by any relevant requirement—

132.5.a

provides information which that person knows to be false or misleading in a
material particular, or

132.5.b

recklessly provides information which is false or misleading in a material
particular,

is guilty of an offence.

132.6

Any person who intentionally obstructs the exercise of any rights conferred by
a warrant under paragraph  130  is guilty of an offence.

132.7

A person guilty of an offence under sub-paragraph  (4) ,  (5)  or  (6)  is
liable, on summary conviction—

132.7.a

in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or a
fine, or both;

132.7.b

In Scotland and Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3
months or a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale, or both.

132.8

In this paragraph—

      “ court ” means—         the High Court,           in Scotland, the
Court of Session;                 “ relevant requirement ” has the meaning
given in paragraph  122 .

###### Prosecution of offences under paragraph 

133

133.1

Proceedings for an offence under paragraph  132  may be instituted—

133.1.a

in England and Wales, only by the Bank or by or with the consent of the
Director of Public Prosecutions, and

133.1.b

in Northern Ireland, only by the Bank or by or with the consent of the
Director of Public Prosecutions for Northern Ireland.

133.2

In exercising its power to institute proceedings for an offence under
paragraph  132 , the Bank must comply with any conditions or restrictions
imposed in writing by the Treasury.

133.3

Conditions or restrictions may be imposed under sub-paragraph  (2)  in
relation to proceedings generally, or such proceedings or categories of
proceedings as the Treasury may direct.

###### Offences under paragraph 

134

134.1

If an offence under paragraph  132  committed by a body corporate is shown—

134.1.a

to have been committed with the consent or connivance of an officer, or

134.1.b

to be attributable to any neglect on the part of an officer,

the officer as well as the body corporate is guilty of the offence and liable
to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

134.2

If the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its members, sub-paragraph
(1)  applies in relation to the acts and defaults of a member in connection
with that member’s functions of management as if that member were a director
of the body.

134.3

If an offence under paragraph  132  committed by a partnership is shown—

134.3.a

to have been committed with the consent or connivance of a partner, or

134.3.b

to be attributable to any neglect on the part of a partner,

the partner as well as the body corporate is guilty of the offence and liable
to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

134.4

In sub-paragraph  (3)  “ partner ” includes a person purporting to act as
partner.

134.5

“ Officer ” in relation to a body corporate means—

134.5.a

a director, member of the committee of management, chief executive, manager,
secretary or other similar officer of the body, or a person purporting to act
in any such capacity, and

134.5.b

an individual who is a controller of the body (and for these purposes, “
controller ” has the meaning given in section 422 of FSMA 2000).

134.6

If an offence under paragraph  132  committed by an unincorporated association
(other than a partnership) is shown—

134.6.a

to have been committed with the consent or connivance of an officer of the
association or a member of its governing body, or

134.6.b

to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such an officer or member,

the officer or member as well as the association is guilty of the offence and
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

###### Injunctions to prevent failure to comply with relevant requirement

135

135.1

If, on the application of the Bank, the court is satisfied that there is a
reasonable likelihood that any person will contravene a relevant requirement,
the court may make an order restraining, or in Scotland an interdict
prohibiting, the contravention.

135.2

The jurisdiction conferred by this paragraph is exercisable—

135.2.a

in England and Wales, and Northern Ireland, by the High Court, and

135.2.b

in Scotland, by the Court of Session.

135.3

In this paragraph “ relevant requirement ” has the meaning given in paragraph
122 .

###### Regulatory sanctions

136

136.1

If the Bank considers that a person has failed to comply with a relevant
requirement imposed on the person, it may do one or more of the following—

136.1.a

publish a statement to that effect;

136.1.b

impose on that person a penalty, in respect of the failure, of such amount as
it considers appropriate;

136.1.c

with a view to ensuring that the failure ceases or is not repeated or the
consequences of the failure are mitigated, direct that person to refrain from
any conduct;

136.1.d

prohibit that person from holding an office or position involving
responsibility for taking decisions about the management of—

136.1.d.i

a named CCP,

136.1.d.ii

a CCP of a specified description, or

136.1.d.iii

any CCP.

136.2

A prohibition under sub-paragraph  (1)(d) may apply—

136.2.a

for a specified period,

136.2.b

until further notice, or

136.2.c

permanently.

136.3

If the Bank considers that a failure by a person to comply with a relevant
requirement occurred with the consent or connivance of, or was attributable to
any neglect on the part of, an officer of that person, it may do one or more
of the following—

136.3.a

publish a statement to that effect;

136.3.b

impose on that officer a penalty, in respect of the failure, of such amount as
it considers appropriate;

136.3.c

with a view to ensuring that the failure ceases or is not repeated or the
consequences of the failure are mitigated, direct that person to refrain from
any conduct specified in the direction.

136.4

A penalty under this paragraph—

136.4.a

must be paid to the Bank, and

136.4.b

may be enforced by the Bank as a debt.

136.5

In this paragraph “ relevant requirement ” has the meaning given in paragraph
122 .

###### Determination of sanctions

137

When determining the type of sanction, and level of any penalty, to be imposed
on a person under paragraph  136 , the Bank must take into account all
relevant circumstances, including where appropriate—

137.a

the gravity and the duration of the failure,

137.b

the degree of responsibility of the person,

137.c

the financial strength of the person,

137.d

the amount of profits gained or losses avoided by the person,

137.e

the losses for third parties caused by the failure,

137.f

the level of co-operation of the person with the Bank,

137.g

previous failures by the person, and

137.h

any potential systemic consequences of the failure.

###### Procedure: warning notice

138

138.1

If the Bank proposes to impose a sanction on a person under paragraph  136(1)
or  (3)  it must give that person a warning notice.

138.2

Section 387 of FSMA 2000 applies in relation to a warning notice given under
sub-paragraph  (1)  and to the Bank as it applies in relation to a warning
notice given under that Act and to the regulator which gave that notice,
subject to sub-paragraphs  (3)  and  (4) .

138.3

In complying with section 387(1)(a) of that Act, a warning notice must in
particular—

138.3.a

if it is about a proposal to publish a statement, set out the terms of the
statement,

138.3.b

if it is about a proposal to impose a penalty, specify the amount of the
penalty,

138.3.c

if it is about a proposal to direct a person to refrain from certain conduct,
specify the conduct, and

138.3.d

if it is about a proposal to impose a prohibition on holding an office or
other position, specify the extent of the prohibition.

138.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (2) , section 387 of that Act has effect as
if subsections (1A) and (3A) were omitted.

###### Procedure: decision notice

139

139.1

If the Bank decides to impose a sanction on a person under paragraph  136(1)
or  (3)  it must without delay give that person a decision notice.

139.2

If the decision is to publish a statement, the decision notice must set out
the terms of the statement.

139.3

If the decision is to impose a penalty, the decision notice must specify the
amount of the penalty.

139.4

If the decision is to refrain from certain conduct, the decision notice must
specify the conduct.

139.5

If the decision is to impose a prohibition on holding an office or other
position, the decision notice must specify the extent of the prohibition.

139.6

Section 388 of FSMA 2000 applies in relation to a decision notice given under
sub-paragraph  (1)  and the Bank as it applies in relation to a decision
notice given under that Act and the regulator which gave that notice, subject
to sub-paragraph  (7) .

139.7

Section 388 of that Act has effect for the purposes of sub-paragraph  (6)  as
if—

139.7.a

in subsection (1)(e)(i) for “this Act” there were substituted  “paragraph  141
of Schedule 11 to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023” , and

139.7.b

subsections (1A) and (2) were omitted.

###### Procedure: general

140

140.1

Sections 389, 390 and 392 to 394 of FSMA 2000 apply in relation to a warning
notice given under paragraph  138 , a decision notice given under paragraph
139  and the Bank as they apply in relation to a warning notice or decision
notice given under that Act and the regulator which gave that notice, subject
to sub-paragraphs  (2)  to  (4) .

140.2

Section 389 of that Act has effect as if subsection (2) were omitted.

140.3

Section 390 has effect as if—

140.3.a

in subsection (2A), in paragraph (a), for “133(6)(b)” there were substituted
“133(5)(b)” ,

140.3.b

in that paragraph, for “133(6)” there were substituted  “133(5)” ,

140.3.c

for subsection (4) there were substituted—

140.3.c.4

A final notice about a direction under paragraph  136(1)(c)  or  (3)(c)  of
Schedule 11 to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 or a prohibition
under paragraph  136(1)(d)  of that Schedule must—

140.3.c.4.a

specify the conduct to which the direction relates or the extent of the
prohibition, and

140.3.c.4.b

give details of the date on which the direction or prohibition has effect.

140.4

Section 392 has effect as if for paragraphs (a) and (b) there were
substituted—

140.4.a

a warning notice given under paragraph  138  of Schedule 11 to the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2023;

140.4.b

a decision notice given under paragraph  139  of Schedule 11 to the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2023.

###### Appeals

141

141.1

If the Bank decides to impose a sanction on a person under paragraph  136 ,
the person may appeal to the Upper Tribunal.

141.2

The Bank may not impose a sanction while an appeal under this paragraph could
be brought or is pending.

###### Injunctions: failure to comply with certain paragraph 

142

142.1

If, on the application of the Bank, the court is satisfied—

142.1.a

that there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a compliance failure,
or

142.1.b

that there has been a compliance failure and there is a reasonable likelihood
that it will continue or be repeated,

the court may make an order restraining the conduct constituting the failure.

142.2

If, on the application of the Bank, the court is satisfied—

142.2.a

that there has been a compliance failure, and

142.2.b

that there are steps which could be taken for remedying the failure,

the court may make an order requiring anyone who appears to have been
knowingly concerned in the failure to take such steps as the court may direct
to remedy it.

142.3

If, on the application of the Bank, the court is satisfied—

142.3.a

that there may have been a compliance failure by any person, or

142.3.b

that a person may have been knowingly concerned in a compliance failure,

the court may make an order restraining that person from dealing with any
assets which it is satisfied the person is reasonably likely to deal with.

142.4

“ Compliance failure ” means—

142.4.a

a failure to comply with a direction under paragraph  136(1)(c)  or  (3)(c) ,
or

142.4.b

a breach of a prohibition imposed under paragraph  136(1)(d) .

142.5

The jurisdiction conferred by this paragraph is exercisable—

142.5.a

in England and Wales and Northern Ireland, by the High Court, and

142.5.b

in Scotland, by the Court of Session.

142.6

In this paragraph—

142.6.a

references to an order restraining anything are, in Scotland, to be read as
references to an interdict prohibiting that thing,

142.6.b

references to an order requiring steps to be taken are, in Scotland, to be
read as references to an order for specific performance under section 45 of
the Court of Session Act 1988,

142.6.c

references to remedying a failure include mitigating its effect, and

142.6.d

references to dealing with assets include disposing of them.

###### Publication

143

143.1

In the case of a warning notice under paragraph  138 —

143.1.a

neither the Bank nor a person to whom it is given or copied may publish the
notice,

143.1.b

a person to whom the notice is given or copied may not publish any details
concerning the notice unless the Bank has published those details, and

143.1.c

after consulting the persons to whom the notice is given or copied, the Bank
may publish such information about the matter to which the notice relates as
it considers appropriate.

143.2

A person to whom a decision notice under paragraph  139  is given or copied
may not publish the notice or any details concerning it unless the Bank has
published the notice or those details.

143.3

A notice of discontinuance must state that, if the person to whom the notice
is given consents, the Bank may publish such information as it considers
appropriate about the matter to which the discontinued proceedings related.

143.4

A copy of a notice of discontinuance must be accompanied by a statement that,
if the person to whom the notice is copied consents, the Bank may publish such
information as it considers appropriate about the matter to which the
discontinued proceedings related, so far as relevant to that person.

143.5

Subject to sub-paragraph  (8) , where the Bank gives a decision notice it may
publish such information about the matter to which the notice relates as it
considers appropriate.

143.6

Where the Bank publishes information under sub-paragraph  (5)  and the person
to whom the decision notice is given refers the matter to the Upper Tribunal,
the Bank must, without undue delay, publish on its website information about
the status of the appeal and its outcome.

143.7

Subject to sub-paragraph  (8) , where the Bank gives a final notice—

143.7.a

it must, without undue delay, publish details of any sanction to which the
notice relates on its website, and

143.7.b

it may publish such other information about the matter to which the notice
relates as it considers appropriate.

143.8

Information about a matter to which a decision notice or a final notice
relates must be published anonymously where—

143.8.a

the sanction is imposed (or proposed to be imposed) on an individual and
following an obligatory prior assessment publication of personal data is found
to be disproportionate, or

143.8.b

were it not published anonymously, publication would—

143.8.b.i

jeopardise the stability of financial markets or an ongoing criminal
investigation, or

143.8.b.ii

cause, in so far as it can be determined, disproportionate damage to the
persons involved.

143.9

Where sub-paragraph  (8)  applies, the person publishing the information may
make such arrangements as to the publication of information (including as to
the timing of publication) as are necessary to preserve the anonymity of the
person on whom the sanction is imposed.

143.10

Where the Bank publishes information in accordance with sub-paragraphs  (6)
to  (9) , it must ensure the information remains on its website for at least
five years, unless the information is personal data and the data protection
legislation requires the information to be retained for a different period.

143.11

In this paragraph—

      “ the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act);           “ notice of
discontinuance ” and “ final notice ” have the same meaning as in sections 389
and 390 of FSMA 2000 (which are applied (with modifications) by paragraph  140
).

###### Co-operation

144

In connection with the exercise of its powers to impose sanctions under
paragraph  136 , the Bank must take such steps as it considers appropriate to
co-operate with—

144.a

the FCA, and

144.b

any person who exercises functions outside the United Kingdom equivalent to
those exercisable by the Bank under this Schedule.

##### Third-country resolution actions

###### Third-country resolution actions

145

145.1

This paragraph applies where the Bank is notified of third-country resolution
action in respect of a third-country central counterparty.

145.2

The Bank must make an instrument which—

145.2.a

recognises the action,

145.2.b

refuses to recognise the action, or

145.2.c

recognises part of the action and refuses to recognise the remainder.

An instrument within paragraph  (a) ,  (b)  or  (c)  is a “ third-country
instrument ” (as is an instrument under paragraph  146 ).

145.3

The Bank may only make a decision under sub-paragraph  (2)  with the approval
of the Treasury.

145.4

Recognition of the action (or a part of it) may be refused only if the Bank
and the Treasury are satisfied that one or more of the following conditions
are satisfied—

145.4.a

recognition would have an adverse effect on financial stability in the United
Kingdom;

145.4.b

under the third-country resolution action creditors (including in particular
clearing members) located or payable in the United Kingdom would not, by
reason of being located or payable in the United Kingdom, receive the same
treatment as creditors who are located or payable in the country concerned and
have similar legal rights;

145.4.c

recognition of, and taking action in support of, the third-country resolution
action (or the part) would have material fiscal implications for the United
Kingdom;

145.4.d

recognition would be unlawful under section 6 of the Human Rights Act 1998
(public authority not to act contrary to Human Rights Convention).

145.5

The recognition of a third-country resolution action (or any part of it) is
without prejudice to any normal insolvency proceedings.

145.6

In this paragraph—

      “ third-country central counterparty ” has the meaning given by section
285 of FSMA 2000;           “ third-country resolution action ” means action
under the law of a country or territory outside the United Kingdom to manage
the failure or likely failure of a third-country central counterparty—
the anticipated results of which are, in relation to a third-country central
counterparty, broadly comparable to results which could have been anticipated
from the exercise of a stabilisation option in relation to an entity in the
United Kingdom corresponding to the third-country central counterparty, and
the objectives of which are broadly comparable, in relation to the country or
territory concerned, to the special resolution objectives in paragraph  15  as
they apply in relation to the United Kingdom.

###### Effects of recognition on third-country resolution action

146

146.1

This paragraph applies where an instrument under paragraph  145  recognises
any third-country resolution action (or a part of it).

146.2

The third-country resolution action (or part) produces the same legal effects
in any part of the United Kingdom as it would have produced had it been made
(with due authority) under the law of that part of the United Kingdom.

146.3

For the purposes of supporting, or giving full effect to, the third-county
resolution action (or the part), the Bank may exercise, in relation to a
third-country central counterparty, one or more of the stabilisation options,
or one or more of the stabilisation powers, available to the Bank in relation
to a similar entity in the United Kingdom.

146.4

But, for the purposes of exercising a power by virtue of sub-paragraph  (3) ,
provision which could otherwise be made under this Schedule in a share
transfer instrument, property transfer instrument or resolution instrument may
instead be made in—

146.4.a

the instrument made under paragraph  145  recognising the third-country
resolution action (or part), or

146.4.b

a further instrument made by the Bank under this paragraph.

An instrument under paragraph  (b)  is a “ third-country instrument ” (as is
an instrument under paragraph  145(2)(a) ,  (b)  or  (c) ).

146.5

This Schedule (other than this paragraph) applies in relation to the exercise
of any power by virtue of sub-paragraph  (3) , subject to sub-paragraphs  (6)
and  (7)  and any other necessary modifications.

146.6

Paragraph  15  (special resolution objectives) has effect as if after sub-
paragraph (7) there were inserted—

146.6.7A

Objective 6 is to support third-country resolution action with a view to
promoting objectives which, in relation to the country or territory concerned,
correspond to Objectives 1 to 5 in relation to the United Kingdom.

146.7

Paragraphs  17  to  19  do not apply.

146.8

Paragraph  145(6)  applies for the purposes of this paragraph.

###### Third-country instruments: supplementary provision

147

147.1

Paragraph  47  (incidental provision) applies to a third-country instrument as
it applies to a share transfer instrument.

147.2

Paragraph  48  (procedure: instruments) applies to a third-country instrument
as it applies to a share transfer instrument, except that references in that
paragraph to the CCP are to be read as references to the third-country central
counterparty to which the third-country instrument relates.

147.3

Paragraph  109  (international obligation notice: general) applies in relation
to the making of a third-country instrument under paragraph  145  or  146  as
it applies in relation to the exercise of a stabilisation power, except that—

147.3.a

for the purposes of paragraph  109(3) , paragraph 15 is to be read subject to
the modification in paragraph  146(6) , and

147.3.b

in sub-paragraph (4), the reference to a CCP is to be read as a reference to a
third-country central counterparty in respect of which a third-country
instrument is made.

147.4

Paragraph  110  (international obligation notice: bridge central counterparty)
applies where the Bank has, by virtue of paragraph  146 , transferred all or
part of the business of a third-country central counterparty to a bridge
central counterparty as it applies where the Bank has transferred all or part
of the business of a CCP to a bridge central counterparty.

147.5

Paragraph  145(6)  applies for the purposes of this paragraph.

##### General

###### Information

148

148.1

The Bank may disclose information that it thinks relevant to the financial
stability of—

148.1.a

individual CCPs, or

148.1.b

one or more aspects of the UK financial system.

148.2

Information about the business or other affairs of a specified or identifiable
person may be disclosed under sub-paragraph  (1)  only to—

148.2.a

the Treasury;

148.2.b

the FCA;

148.2.c

the scheme manager of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (established
under Part 15 of FSMA 2000);

148.2.d

the Payment Systems Regulator (established under section 40 of the Financial
Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013);

148.2.e

an authority in a country or territory outside the United Kingdom which
exercises functions similar to those of the Treasury, the Bank, the PRA or the
FCA in relation to financial stability.

148.3

Except as provided by sub-paragraph  (4) , the disclosure of information under
this paragraph does not breach—

148.3.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

148.3.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

148.4

This paragraph does not authorise a disclosure of information if the
disclosure would contravene the data protection legislation (but in
determining whether a disclosure would do so, take into account the duties
imposed by this paragraph).

148.5

In this paragraph “ the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as
in the Data Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act).

###### Restrictions on disclosure of confidential information

149

149.1

Sections 348, 349, 352 and 353 of FSMA 2000 (disclosure of information) apply
for the purposes of this Schedule with the following modifications.

149.2

Section 348 of that Act has effect as if —

149.2.a

in subsection (2)(b), after “Act” there were inserted  “or of the Bank of
England under Schedule 11 to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023” ,

149.2.b

in subsection (3)(a), at the end there were inserted “or the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2023”,

149.2.c

in subsection (5)—

149.2.c.i

after paragraph (c) there were inserted—

149.2.c.i.ca

a person appointed to make a report under paragraph  120  of Schedule 11 to
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 (reports by skilled persons);

149.2.c.i.cb

a person appointed to act as a temporary manager under paragraph  6  of
Schedule 11 to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023,

149.2.c.ii

in paragraph (e) for “to (c)” there were substituted  “to (cb)” , and

149.2.d

after subsection (6)(b) there were inserted—

149.2.d.c

a competent person appointed by the Bank of England under Part 6 of Schedule
11 to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023.

149.3

Section 349 of that Act has effect as if, in subsection (2)(c), for “or the
PRA” there were substituted  “the PRA or the Bank of England” .

149.4

Section 353 of that Act has effect as if in subsection (1)—

149.4.a

in paragraph (a)—

149.4.a.i

after “under this Act” there were inserted  “or the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2023” , and

149.4.a.ii

for “it” there were substituted  “those Acts” ;

149.4.b

in paragraph (b) after “to the” there were inserted  “Bank of England, the” .

###### Remedies on judicial review

150

150.1

Where an application is made for judicial review of a decision of the Bank to
exercise the stabilisation powers in relation to a CCP or CCP group company
(“relevant proceedings”)—

150.1.a

a ruling by the court that the decision is unlawful does not affect a relevant
transfer or a relevant provision in a stabilisation instrument made by the
Bank pursuant to that decision, and

150.1.b

the court may not quash any provision in a stabilisation instrument made by
the Bank if that provision makes a relevant transfer or a relevant provision.

150.2

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) —

150.2.a

“ stabilisation instrument ” means—

150.2.a.i

a share transfer instrument,

150.2.a.ii

a property transfer instrument, or

150.2.a.iii

a resolution instrument;

150.2.b

a “relevant provision” in a stabilisation instrument means—

150.2.b.i

in relation to a tear-up instrument, provision under paragraph  31(2) ,

150.2.b.ii

in relation to a cash call instrument, provision under paragraph  32(2) ,

150.2.b.iii

in relation to a variation instrument, provision under paragraph  33(2) ,

150.2.b.iv

in relation to a write-down instrument, provision under paragraph  34(2)  or
35 , and

150.2.b.v

in relation to an instrument of control, provision under paragraph  38(2) ;

150.2.c

a transfer is a “relevant transfer” if it transfers to any person—

150.2.c.i

property, rights or liabilities of the CCP or CCP group company, or of a
bridge central counterparty, or

150.2.c.ii

securities issued by the CCP, or CCP group company, or of a bridge central
counterparty.

150.3

Sub-paragraph  (1)  does not affect the power of the court, subject to section
244 of the Banking Act 2009 (immunity), to award damages as a remedy in
relevant proceedings.

###### Giving of notices, documents etc under this Schedule

151

Regulations under section 414 of FSMA 2000 (service of notices), and
subsection (4) of that section, apply in relation to any notice, direction or
document of any kind required to be given under any provision of this Schedule
(however that requirement is expressed) as if those provisions were provisions
of that Act.

###### “Financial assistance”

152

152.1

In this Schedule “ financial assistance ” includes giving guarantees or
indemnities and any other kind of financial assistance (actual or contingent).

152.2

The Treasury may by regulations provide that a specified activity or
transaction, or class of activity or transaction, is to be or not to be
treated as financial assistance for a specified purpose of this Schedule; and
sub-paragraph  (1)  is subject to this sub-paragraph.

152.3

Regulations under this paragraph are subject to the negative procedure.

###### Modifications to the law

153

153.1

The Treasury may by regulations modify the law for the purpose of enabling the
powers under this Schedule to be used effectively, having regard to the
special resolution objectives.

153.2

Regulations may be made—

153.2.a

for the general purpose of the exercise of powers under this Schedule,

153.2.b

to facilitate a particular proposed or possible use of a power, or

153.2.c

in connection with a particular exercise of a power.

153.3

Regulations under sub-paragraph  (2)(c)  may make provision which has
retrospective effect in so far as the Treasury consider it necessary or
desirable for giving effect to the particular exercise of a power under this
Schedule in connection with which the regulations are made (but in relying on
this sub-paragraph the Treasury must have regard to the fact that it is in the
public interest to avoid retrospective legislation).

153.4

In sub-paragraph  (1)  “ modify the law ” means—

153.4.a

disapply or modify the effect of a provision of an enactment (other than a
provision made by or under this Act),

153.4.b

disapply or modify the effect of a rule of law not set out in legislation, or

153.4.c

amend any provision of an instrument or regulations made in the exercise of a
stabilisation power.

153.5

Specific powers under this Schedule are without prejudice to the generality of
this paragraph.

153.6

Regulations under this paragraph are—

153.6.a

subject to the affirmative procedure, or

153.6.b

if the Treasury consider it necessary for the regulations to come into force
without delay, subject to the made affirmative procedure.

153.7

Where regulations under this paragraph are subject to the made affirmative
procedure the statutory instrument containing the regulations must be laid
before Parliament after being made.

153.8

Regulations contained in a statutory instrument laid before Parliament under
sub-paragraph  (7)  cease to have effect at the end of the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the instrument is made unless, during that
period, the instrument is approved by a resolution of each House of
Parliament.

153.9

In calculating the period of 28 days, no account is to be taken of any whole
days that fall within a period during which—

153.9.a

Parliament is dissolved or prorogued, or

153.9.b

either House of Parliament is adjourned for more than four days.

153.10

If regulations cease to have effect as a result of sub-paragraph  (8) , that
does not—

153.10.a

affect the validity of anything previously done under the regulations, or

153.10.b

prevent the making of new regulations.

###### Interpretation

154

In this Schedule—

      “ Bank ” means the Bank of England;           “ bridge central
counterparty ” has the meaning given by paragraph  29(1) ;           “ cash
call instrument ” has the meaning given by paragraph  32 ;           “ CCP ”
means a recognised central counterparty (see paragraph  155 );           “ CCP
group company ” has the meaning given by paragraph  156 ;           “ central
counterparty ” means a body corporate or an unincorporated association which
interposes itself between the counterparties to the contracts traded on one or
more financial markets, becoming the buyer to every seller and the seller to
every buyer;           “ clearing member ” has the meaning given in Article 2
of EMIR and, unless otherwise provided, includes an interoperable CCP;
“clearing” and “ clearing services ”, in relation to a CCP, have the meaning
given by section 313 of FSMA 2000;           “ critical clearing services ”
means clearing services the withdrawal of which the Bank considers may
threaten the stability of the UK financial system;           “ director ”
includes, in relation to a CCP which has no board of directors, a member of
the equivalent management body responsible for the management of the CCP
concerned;           “ EMIR ” means  Regulation (EU) No 648/2012  of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on OTC derivatives,
central counterparties and trade repositories;           “ employee ” includes
the holder of an office;           “ extraordinary public financial support ”
means financial assistance that is provided by the Treasury or the Bank in
order to preserve or restore the viability, liquidity or solvency of a CCP, a
CCP group company or a group which includes a CCP, other than—
ordinary market assistance offered by the Bank on its usual terms, or
a liquidity facility which is provided—         to a CCP that is facing
temporary liquidity problems but is solvent, and           by the Bank on its
own initiative and on its own terms;                       “ financial
assistance ” has the meaning given by paragraph  152 ;           “ group ” has
the meaning given by section 474 of the Companies Act 2006;           “
instrument of control ” has the meaning given by paragraph  38 ;           “
interoperable CCP ” means a CCP with which an interoperability arrangement
(within the meaning of Article 2 of EMIR) has been established;           “
parent ” means a parent undertaking within the meaning given by section 1162
of the Companies Act 2006;           “ partial property transfer ” has the
meaning given by paragraph  75(1) ;           “ PRA-authorised person ” has
the meaning given by section 2B(5) of FSMA 2000;           “ recognition
requirements ” means the requirements resulting from section 286 of FSMA 2000;
“ resolution instrument ” has the meaning given by paragraph  79 ;           “
securities ” has the meaning given by paragraph  40 ;           “ service
contract ” has the meaning given by section 227 of the Companies Act 2006;
“ senior manager ”, in relation to a CCP, means a person who—
exercises executive functions within that CCP, and           is responsible,
and directly accountable to the directors, for the day to day management of
that CCP;                 “ special resolution objectives ” means the
objectives set out in paragraph  15 ;           “ stabilisation instrument ”
has the meaning given by paragraph  84 ;           “ stabilisation options ”
means the options described in paragraph  1(3) ;           “ stabilisation
powers ” means the powers described in paragraph  1(4) ;           “
subsidiary ” means a subsidiary undertaking within the meaning given by
section 1162 of the Companies Act 2006.           “ tear-up instrument ” has
the meaning given by paragraph  31 ;           “ third-country instrument ”
has the meaning given by paragraph  145 ;           “ third-country resolution
action ” has the meaning given by paragraph  145 ;           “transfer date”—
in relation to a share transfer instrument, means the date on or at which a
share transfer instrument (or the relevant part of it) takes effect, or
in relation to a property transfer instrument, means the date on or at which a
property transfer instrument (or the relevant part of it) takes effect;
“ UK financial system ” has the meaning given by section 1I of FSMA 2000;
“ variation instrument ” has the meaning given by paragraph  33 ;           “
write-down instrument ” has the meaning given by paragraph  34 .

###### Recognised central counterparty

155

155.1

In this Schedule “ recognised central counterparty ” has the meaning given by
section 285 of FSMA 2000.

155.2

But “ recognised central counterparty ” does not include a recognised clearing
house (within the meaning of section 285 of FSMA 2000) which is also—

155.2.a

a bank,

155.2.b

a building society (within the meaning of section 119 of the Building
Societies Act 1986),

155.2.c

a credit union (within the meaning of section 31 of the Credit Unions Act 1979
or Article 2(2) of the Credit Unions (Northern Ireland) Order 1985), or

155.2.d

an investment firm.

155.3

Where a stabilisation power is exercised in respect of a recognised central
counterparty, the body does not cease to be a recognised central counterparty
for the purposes of this Schedule if the recognition order under Part 18 of
FSMA 2000 is later revoked.

###### Interpretation: “CCP group company”, etc

156

156.1

In this Schedule “ CCP group company ” means an undertaking—

156.1.a

which is (or, but for the exercise of a stabilisation power, would be) in the
same group as a CCP, and

156.1.b

in respect of which any conditions specified in regulations made by the
Treasury are met.

156.2

Regulations under this paragraph may require the Bank to consult specified
persons before determining whether the conditions are met.

156.3

Regulations under this paragraph are subject to the affirmative procedure.

156.4

Undertakings are in the same group for the purposes of paragraph  117  and
this paragraph if they are group undertakings in respect of each other.

156.5

Expressions defined in the Companies Act 2006 have the same meaning in
paragraph  117  and this paragraph as in that Act.

##### Treasury support for CCPs

###### Consolidated Fund

157

157.1

There is to be paid out of money provided by Parliament expenditure incurred—

157.1.a

by the Treasury, or by the Secretary of State with the consent of the
Treasury, in respect of, or in connection with giving, financial assistance to
or in respect of a CCP (other than in respect of loans made in accordance with
paragraph  158 ), or

157.1.b

by the Treasury in respect of financial assistance to the Bank in connection
with this Schedule.

157.2

For the purpose of sub-paragraph  (1)(a)  expenditure is incurred in respect
of financial assistance in respect of CCPs if it is incurred in respect of an
activity, transaction or arrangement, or class of activity, transaction or
arrangement, which is expected to facilitate any part of the business of one
or more CCPs; and for that purpose it does not matter—

157.2.a

whether or not that is the sole or principal expected effect of the activity,
transaction or arrangement, or

157.2.b

whether the sole or principal motive for the activity, transaction or
arrangement is—

157.2.b.i

its effect on CCPs,

157.2.b.ii

its effect on the economy as a whole,

157.2.b.iii

its effect on a particular industry or sector of the economy, or

157.2.b.iv

its effect on clearing members of CCPs.

157.3

In this paragraph “ financial assistance ” has the meaning given by paragraph
152  (and regulations under that paragraph may restrict or expand the effect
of sub-paragraph  (2) )

157.4

Expenditure which could be paid out of money provided by Parliament under sub-
paragraph  (1)  may be charged on and paid out of the Consolidated Fund if the
Treasury are satisfied that the need for the expenditure is too urgent to
permit arrangements to be made for the provision of money by Parliament.

157.5

Where money is paid in reliance on sub-paragraph  (4)  the Treasury must as
soon as is reasonably practicable lay a report before Parliament specifying
the amount paid (but not the identity of the CCP or other institution to or in
respect of which it is paid).

157.6

If the Treasury think it necessary on public interest grounds, they may delay
or dispense with a report under sub-paragraph (5).

###### National Loans Fund

158

158.1

Where the Treasury propose to make a loan to or in respect of a CCP, they may
arrange for money to be paid out of the National Loans Fund.

158.2

The Treasury may make arrangements under sub-paragraph  (1)  only where they
think it necessary to make the loan urgently in order to protect the stability
of the UK financial system

158.3

The Treasury may determine—

158.3.a

the rate of interest on a loan, and

158.3.b

other terms and conditions.

158.4

Sums received by the Treasury in respect of loans by virtue of this paragraph
must be paid into the National Loans Fund.

158.5

Neither section 16 of the Banking (Special Provisions) Act 2008 (finance) nor
any other enactment restricts the breadth of application of this paragraph.

158.6

Where money is paid in reliance on sub-paragraph  (1)  the Treasury must as
soon as is reasonably practicable lay a report before Parliament specifying
the amount paid (but not the identity of the CCP or other institution to or in
respect of which it is paid).

158.7

If the Treasury think it necessary on public interest grounds, they may delay
or dispense with a report under sub-paragraph (6).

##### Consequential etc provision

###### Bank of England Act 1998

159

In section 7D of the Bank of England Act 1998 (examination by Comptroller and
Auditor General), in subsection (10)—

159.a

in the definition of “resolution functions” after paragraph (b) insert—

      Schedule 11 to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023,

;

159.b

for the definition of “stabilisation powers” substitute—

      “ stabilisation powers ” means a stabilisation power within the meaning
given by section 1(4) of the Banking Act 2009 or paragraph 1(4) of Schedule 11
to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023.

###### Financial Services and Markets Act 2000

160

160.1

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

160.2

In section 77 (discontinuance and suspension of listing), in subsection (3A),
after “2009” insert  “or paragraph  44  or  65  of Schedule 11 to the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2023” .

160.3

In section 78 (discontinuance or suspension: procedure)—

160.3.a

in subsection (10)(a), after “2009,” insert  “or paragraph  44  or  65  of
Schedule 11 to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023” ;

160.3.b

in subsection (14), after “2009” insert  “or paragraph  44  or  65  of
Schedule 11 to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023” .

160.4

In section 133 (proceedings before Tribunal: general provision), in subsection
(1)(c) for “or the Banking Act 2009” substitute  “, the Banking Act 2009 or
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023” .

160.5

In section 133B (offences), in subsection (1)(c) for “or the Banking Act 2009”
substitute  “, the Banking Act 2009 or the Financial Services and Markets Act
2023” .

###### Companies Act 2006

161

161.1

The Companies Act 2006 is amended as follows.

161.2

In Part 2 of Schedule 2 (specified descriptions of disclosures for the
purposes of section 948), in paragraph 49(c) for “or the Banking Act 2009”
substitute  “, the Banking Act 2009 or the Financial Services and Markets Act
2023” .

161.3

In Part 2 of Schedule 11A (specified descriptions of disclosures for the
purposes of section 1224A), in paragraph 71(c) for “or the Banking Act 2009”
substitute  “, the Banking Act 2009 or the Financial Services and Markets Act
2023” .

###### Banking Act 2009

162

162.1

The Banking Act 2009 is amended as follows.

162.2

In section 1 (overview), in the table in subsection (6), omit the entry
relating to sections 89B to 89G.

162.3

In section 2 (interpretation: bank), omit subsection (9).

162.4

In section 39A (banks which are recognised central counterparties)—

162.4.a

for “Sections 89C to 89E” substitute  “Paragraphs  59 ,  60  and  108  of
Schedule 11 to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023” ;

162.4.b

for “section 89G(2)” substitute  “paragraph  155(2)  of Schedule 11 to that
Act” .

162.5

In section 75 (power to change law), in subsection (5) omit paragraph (cb).

162.6

Omit sections 89B to 89G and the cross-heading preceding section 89B.

162.7

In section 259 (statutory instruments), in Part 1 of the Table, omit the entry
relating to section 89F.

162.8

In section 261 (index), in the Table, omit the following entries—

162.8.a

“PRA-authorised person”, and

162.8.b

“recognised central counterparty”.

###### Financial Services Act 2012

163

163.1

The Financial Services Act 2012 is amended as follows.

163.2

In section 57A (duty of Bank to provide information required by Treasury)—

163.2.a

in subsection (2) after “credit union” insert  “, recognised central
counterparty” ;

163.2.b

in subsection (5) after “credit union” insert  “, recognised central
counterparty” ;

163.2.c

in subsection (5)(b), after “2009” insert  “or in Schedule 11 to the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2023” ;

163.2.d

in subsection (7), after the definition of “public funds” insert—

      “ recognised central counterparty ” has the meaning given by section 285
of FSMA 2000,

163.3

In section 58 (duty of Bank to notify Treasury of possible need for public
funds)—

163.3.a

in subsection (4) after “2009” insert  “or under Schedule 11 to the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2023” ;

163.3.b

in subsection (5)—

163.3.b.i

in the opening words, after “Scheme” insert  “or any scheme established under
paragraph  87  of Schedule 11 to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023”
;

163.3.b.ii

in the closing words, after “Scheme” insert  “or any scheme established under
paragraph  87  of Schedule 11 to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023”
.

163.4

In section 61 (Treasury power of direction), in subsection (2)(b)—

163.4.a

after “2009” insert  “or paragraph 1(4) of Schedule 11 to the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2023” ;

163.4.b

for “that Act” substitute  “the Banking Act 2009” .

163.5

Omit section 102.

###### Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013

164

164.1

The Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013 is amended as follows.

164.2

In Schedule 2 omit paragraph 9.

164.3

In Schedule 10 omit paragraph 7.

###### Modified application of corporate law to CCPs in resolution

165

165.1

The Treasury may by regulations provide for a relevant enactment to apply for
the purposes of this Schedule with or without modifications.

165.2

In this paragraph “ relevant enactment ” means any provision made by or under—

165.2.a

the Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986;

165.2.b

the Insolvency Act 1986;

165.2.c

FSMA 2000;

165.2.d

the Companies Act 2006;

165.2.e

the Banking Act 2009;

165.2.f

the Bank Recovery and Resolution (No.2) Order 2014 ( S.I. 2014/3348 );

165.2.g

the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/2405 (N.I. 19) );

165.2.h

the Company Directors Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order 2002 ( S.I.
2002/3150 (N.I. 4) ).

165.3

Regulations under this paragraph are subject to the affirmative procedure.

Write-down orders

Section 58

##### Write-down orders: main provisions

1

1.1

Part 24 of FSMA 2000 (insolvency) is amended as follows.

1.2

In section 360 (application of Part 2 of 1986 Act or Part 3 of 1989 Order
(administration) to insurers), at the end insert—

1.2.4

Subsection  (5)  applies where, by virtue of an order under this section, a
person may be appointed as administrator of an insurer.

1.2.5

While a write-down order under section  377A  has effect in relation to an
insurer, a person may not be appointed as administrator of the insurer without
the consent of the PRA.

1.3

Omit section 377 (reducing the value of contracts instead of winding up).

1.4

Before section 378 (treatment of assets on winding up) insert—

########### Write-down orders

1.4.377A

1.4.377A.1

A “write-down order” is an order of the court directing that the value of one
or more of an insurer’s liabilities is reduced on such terms as may be
specified in the order.

1.4.377A.2

The court may make a write-down order in relation to an insurer if it is
satisfied that—

1.4.377A.2.a

the insurer is, or is likely to become, unable to pay its debts (within the
meaning given to that expression by section 123 of the 1986 Act or Article 103
of the 1989 Order), and

1.4.377A.2.b

making the order is reasonably likely to lead to a better outcome for the
insurer’s policyholders and other creditors (taken as a whole) than not making
the order.

1.4.377A.3

A write-down order—

1.4.377A.3.a

takes effect on the later of—

1.4.377A.3.a.i

the date specified in the order, and

1.4.377A.3.a.ii

the date on which the appointment of a person to act as the manager of the
order first takes effect (see section  377G (7) );

1.4.377A.3.b

ceases to have effect in accordance with section  377H ;

1.4.377A.3.c

may be revoked or varied in accordance with section  377I .

1.4.377A.4

A write-down order may not be made in relation to an insurer—

1.4.377A.4.a

which is in administration (within the meaning of Schedule B1 to the 1986 Act
or Schedule B1 to the 1989 Order), or

1.4.377A.4.b

which is in liquidation by virtue of—

1.4.377A.4.b.i

a resolution for voluntary winding up, or

1.4.377A.4.b.ii

a winding-up order under section 125 of the 1986 Act or Article 105 of the
1989 Order.

1.4.377A.5

A write-down order may not reduce the value of an excluded liability (within
the meaning given by section  377B ).

1.4.377A.6

A liability, to the extent of its reduction by a write-down order under this
section, is to be treated as extinguished unless and until revived by section
377H or 377I.

1.4.377A.7

In this section, “ creditor ” includes a contingent or prospective creditor.

########### Excluded liabilities

1.4.377B

1.4.377B.1

Each of the following is an “excluded liability”—

1.4.377B.1.a

a liability with an original maturity of less than 7 days;

1.4.377B.1.b

an amount payable in respect of goods delivered, or a service provided, on or
after the date on which the write-down order is made;

1.4.377B.1.c

an amount in respect of remuneration or expenses of a person appointed under
section  377G  to act as the manager of the write-down order (including
amounts incurred before, as well as after, the person’s appointment in
connection with the order or the application for the order);

1.4.377B.1.d

an amount secured on property of any kind, other than an amount secured by a
charge which, as created, was a floating charge;

1.4.377B.1.e

an amount payable in respect of wages or salary arising under a contract of
employment;

1.4.377B.1.f

a contribution or other sum payable in respect of an occupational pension
scheme;

1.4.377B.1.g

an amount payable in respect of redundancy payments;

1.4.377B.1.h

an amount payable under a contract or other instrument involving financial
services.

1.4.377B.2

In this section—

“ contract or other instrument involving financial services ” has the meaning
given by Schedule ZA2 to the 1986 Act, but does not include an agreement which
is, or forms part of, an arrangement involving the issue of a capital market
investment (see paragraph 6 of that Schedule); “ floating charge ” has the
meaning given by section 251 of the 1986 Act or paragraph (1) of Article 5 of
the 1989 Order; “ redundancy payment ” means— a redundancy payment under Part
11 of the Employment Rights Act 1996 or Part 12 of the Employment Rights
(Northern Ireland) Order 1996 ( S.I. 1996/1919 (N.I. 16) ), or a payment made
to a person who agrees to the termination of their employment in circumstances
where they would have been entitled to a redundancy payment under that Part if
dismissed; “ wages or salary ” includes— a sum payable in respect of a period
of holiday; a sum payable in respect of a period of absence through illness or
other good cause; a sum payable in lieu of holiday.

########### Application for a write-down order

1.4.377C

1.4.377C.1

An application to the court for a write-down order in relation to an insurer
may be made only by—

1.4.377C.1.a

the Treasury;

1.4.377C.1.b

the PRA;

1.4.377C.1.c

the insurer;

1.4.377C.1.d

a shareholder of the insurer;

1.4.377C.1.e

a policyholder or other creditor (including a contingent or prospective
creditor) of the insurer.

1.4.377C.2

An application for a write-down order may not be withdrawn without the
permission of the court.

1.4.377C.3

A person other than the PRA or the Treasury—

1.4.377C.3.a

must obtain the consent of the PRA before making an application for a write-
down order;

1.4.377C.3.b

must notify the PRA before seeking the court’s permission to withdraw an
application for a write-down order.

1.4.377C.4

Consent under subsection  (3) —

1.4.377C.4.a

must be in writing, and

1.4.377C.4.b

must be filed with the court with the relevant application.

1.4.377C.5

The PRA must consult the FCA before—

1.4.377C.5.a

making an application for a write-down order, or

1.4.377C.5.b

giving or refusing consent for a person to make an application for a write-
down order.

########### Powers of the FCA and PRA to participate in proceedings

1.4.377D

1.4.377D.1

This section applies if an application is made to the court for a write-down
order.

1.4.377D.2

The FCA and the PRA are entitled to be heard—

1.4.377D.2.a

at any hearing relating to the application, and

1.4.377D.2.b

if an order is made, at any hearing relating to the order.

1.4.377D.3

Any notice or other document required to be sent to a creditor of the insurer—

1.4.377D.3.a

in relation to the application, or

1.4.377D.3.b

if an order is made, in relation to the order,

must also be sent to the FCA and the PRA.

########### Powers of the court

1.4.377E

On an application for a write-down order, the court may—

1.4.377E.a

if, on hearing the application, it is satisfied of the matters in section
377A (2) , make a write-down order in the terms sought, or in such other terms
as the court thinks appropriate;

1.4.377E.b

dismiss the application;

1.4.377E.c

adjourn the hearing conditionally or unconditionally;

1.4.377E.d

make any other order which the court thinks appropriate.

########### Duty to notify creditors

1.4.377F

1.4.377F.1

This section applies where a write-down order is made in relation to an
insurer.

1.4.377F.2

As soon as reasonably practicable after the order is made, the insurer must
notify the FCA, the PRA and each affected person that the order has been made.

1.4.377F.3

An “affected person” is a person of a description specified in rules made by
the PRA for the purposes of this section.

1.4.377F.4

Notification under this section—

1.4.377F.4.a

must include such other information as may be specified in rules made by the
PRA for the purposes of this section, and

1.4.377F.4.b

must be given in such form and manner as may be specified in rules made by the
PRA for the purposes of this section.

1.4.377F.5

Failure to notify an affected person in accordance with this section, or rules
made by the PRA for the purposes of this section, does not affect the validity
of the write-down order in relation to that person or any other person.

########### The manager

1.4.377G

1.4.377G.1

The court may by order appoint one or more eligible persons to act as the
manager of a write-down order (“the manager”).

1.4.377G.2

An order under subsection  (1)  may—

1.4.377G.2.a

be made at the same time as the write-down order or at a later date (but see
section  377A (3)(a) );

1.4.377G.2.b

appoint a person in addition to or instead of a person who is for the time
being appointed;

1.4.377G.2.c

give such directions about the carrying out of the person’s functions as the
manager as the court thinks appropriate.

1.4.377G.3

The court may by order terminate the appointment of a person who is for the
time being appointed to act as the manager of a write-down order.

1.4.377G.4

Sections  377C  and 377D apply to an application to the court for an order
under subsection  (1)  or  (3)  as they apply to an application for a write-
down order but—

1.4.377G.4.a

if the application is for the appointment of a person in addition to, or
instead of, a person for the time being appointed, section  377C (1)  applies
as if the persons mentioned included a person for the time being appointed;

1.4.377G.4.b

section  377C (2)  does not apply.

1.4.377G.5

The court may appoint a person to act as the manager of a write-down order
only if—

1.4.377G.5.a

the PRA has provided the court with a statement that the person is suitably
qualified, and

1.4.377G.5.b

the person has provided the court with a statement that the person consents so
to act.

1.4.377G.6

Where it is proposed that more than one person should act as the manager, the
statement under subsection  (5)(b)  must specify—

1.4.377G.6.a

which of the functions of the manager (if any) are to be exercised by the
persons acting jointly, and

1.4.377G.6.b

which of the functions of the manager (if any) are to be exercised by any or
all of the persons.

1.4.377G.7

The appointment of a person to act as the manager—

1.4.377G.7.a

takes effect at the time specified in the order by which the person is
appointed, and

1.4.377G.7.b

ceases to have effect at the time specified in the order by which the person’s
appointment is terminated (whether by being replaced by another person or
otherwise).

1.4.377G.8

Schedule 19A makes further provision about the manager of a write-down order.

########### Write-down order ceasing to have effect

1.4.377H

1.4.377H.1

A reduction in the value of a liability of an insurer under a write-down order
ceases to have effect—

1.4.377H.1.a

on such date as may be specified in the order (and different dates may be
specified in relation to different liabilities or liabilities of different
types), or

1.4.377H.1.b

if earlier, or if no such date is specified, the date on which a termination
event happens (or, if more than one termination event happens, the earliest of
those dates).

1.4.377H.2

In the following table—

1.4.377H.2.a

the first column specifies each event which is a termination event for the
purposes of this section, and

1.4.377H.2.b

the second column specifies, in relation to each termination event, the date
on which the event happens for the purposes of this section.

Event Date event happens The write-down order being— revoked, or varied so as
to remove the liability in question from its scope, by an order under section
377I The date specified in the order under section  377I  as the date on which
the revocation or variation is to take effect, or if no date is specified, the
date on which the order under section  377I  is made The insurer ceasing to
have permission under Part 4A to carry out contracts of insurance The date on
which the withdrawal of permission takes effect The transfer of the liability
in question pursuant to an insurance business transfer scheme which has effect
in accordance with an order under section 111(1) The date on which the
transfer takes effect The making of a winding-up order against the insurer The
date on which the order is made The voluntary winding up of the insurer The
date on which the liquidator is appointed The coming into force of a voluntary
arrangement (under Part 1 of the 1986 Act or Part 2 of the 1989 Order) in
relation to the insurer The date on which the voluntary arrangement comes into
force The insurer entering administration The date on which the appointment of
an administrator takes effect.

1.4.377H.3

Where a write-down order is varied, this section applies as if references to
the write-down order were to the order as varied.

########### Variation or revocation of a write-down order

1.4.377I

1.4.377I.1

The court may, by order—

1.4.377I.1.a

revoke a write-down order, or

1.4.377I.1.b

vary (or further vary) a write-down order.

1.4.377I.2

Section  377A (2)(b)  applies to the making of an order under this section as
it applies to the making of the write-down order.

1.4.377I.3

In varying (or further varying) a write-down order the court may, in
particular—

1.4.377I.3.a

remove one or more of the insurer’s liabilities from the scope of the order
(but removing all such liabilities from the scope of the order takes effect as
a termination of the order);

1.4.377I.3.b

bring one or more of the insurer’s liabilities within the scope of the order
(on such terms as the court may specify);

1.4.377I.3.c

further reduce the value of one or more of the insurer’s liabilities;

1.4.377I.3.d

increase the value of one or more of the insurer’s liabilities to any amount
less than the value the liability had before the write-down order took effect;

1.4.377I.3.e

vary any term specified in the order, including the period for which a
reduction in the value of a liability has effect;

1.4.377I.3.f

make any other order that the court thinks appropriate.

1.4.377I.4

Sections  377C  to  377F  apply to an application for an order under this
section as they apply to an application for a write-down order but with the
following modifications—

1.4.377I.4.a

section  377C (1)  applies as if the list of persons entitled to make an
application included—

1.4.377I.4.a.i

the FCA;

1.4.377I.4.a.ii

the scheme manager of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (see section
212(1));

1.4.377I.4.a.iii

a person appointed under section  377G  to act as the manager of the write-
down order;

1.4.377I.4.b

if the person making the application is the scheme manager of the Financial
Services Compensation Scheme, section  377C (3)  does not apply.

1.4.377I.5

The scheme manager of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme must consult
the FCA and the PRA before making an application to vary or revoke a write-
down order.

1.4.377I.6

Where a provisional liquidator of the insurer has been appointed under section
135 of the 1986 Act or Article 115 of the 1989 Order, a person appointed to
act as the manager of a write-down order must obtain the consent of the
provisional liquidator before making an application for an order under this
section.

########### Further provision about write-down orders

1.4.377J

In Schedule  19B—

1.4.377J.a

Part  1  makes provision about the enforcement of a liability of an insurer
while a write-down order has effect;

1.4.377J.b

Part  2  makes provision about the disposal of an insurer’s assets and the
making of certain payments by an insurer while a write-down order has effect;

1.4.377J.c

Part 3 makes provision about the treatment of an insurer’s liabilities for the
purposes of certain provisions relating to insolvency while a write-down order
has effect;

1.4.377J.d

Part 4 makes provision about interest payable in respect of liabilities
reduced under a write-down order or prevented from being enforced while a
write-down order has effect.

##### The manager of a write-down order

2

After Schedule 19 to FSMA 2000 (competition information), insert—

The manager of a write-down order

Section 377G

########### Application of Schedule

2.1

2.1.1

This Schedule applies where—

2.1.1.a

a write-down order has been made under section  377A  in relation to an
insurer, and

2.1.1.b

one or more persons have been appointed under section  377G  to act as the
manager of the order.

2.1.2

Where only one person acts as the manager, a reference in this Schedule to
“the manager” is to that person.

2.1.3

Where two or more persons act jointly as the manager—

2.1.3.a

a reference in this Schedule to the manager is a reference to those persons
acting jointly;

2.1.3.b

where an offence of omission is committed by the manager, each of the persons
appointed to act jointly—

2.1.3.b.i

commits the offence, and

2.1.3.b.ii

may be proceeded against and punished individually.

2.1.4

Where persons act jointly in respect of only some of the functions of the
manager, sub-paragraph  (3)  applies only in relation to those functions.

2.1.5

Where two or more persons act concurrently as the manager, a reference in this
Schedule to the manager is a reference to any of the persons appointed (or any
combination of them).

2.1.6

In this Schedule, “ creditor ” includes a contingent or prospective creditor.

########### Status of the manager

2.2

The manager is an officer of the court.

########### Monitoring the insurer’s affairs

2.3

2.3.1

The manager must monitor the insurer’s affairs for the purpose of forming a
view as to whether—

2.3.1.a

it remains the case that the write-down order is reasonably likely to lead to
a better outcome for the insurer’s policyholders and other creditors (taken as
a whole) than if the write-down order were not in effect, or

2.3.1.b

that will remain the case, or once again be the case, if the directors of the
insurer were to take certain action or refrain from taking certain action.

2.3.2

If the manager forms the view mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1)(b) , the manager
may make such recommendations to the directors of the insurer as the manager
thinks appropriate.

2.3.3

In forming a view mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1) , the manager is entitled to
rely on information provided by the insurer, unless the manager has reason to
doubt its accuracy.

2.3.4

If directed to do so by the FCA or the PRA, the manager must provide a report
to that regulator on such matters relating to the insurer’s affairs, and at
such intervals, as that regulator may specify.

########### Application by manager to revoke or vary a write-down order

2.4

2.4.1

This paragraph applies if the manager forms the view that it is in the
interests of the insurer’s policyholders and other creditors (taken as a
whole) for the write-down order to be—

2.4.1.a

revoked, or

2.4.1.b

varied in one or more respects.

2.4.2

The manager must apply to the court for such orders (whether under section
377I  or otherwise) as the manager thinks likely to achieve the best outcome
for the insurer’s policyholders and other creditors (taken as a whole).

2.4.3

In forming the view mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1) , the manager may have
regard, among other things—

2.4.3.a

to whether recommendations under paragraph  3(2)  have been made (and if so,
whether they have been acted upon);

2.4.3.b

to whether recommendations, or further recommendations, under paragraph  3(2)
could be made (and if so, the likelihood that they will be acted upon).

########### Provision of information and assistance to the manager

2.5

2.5.1

The manager may require a relevant person to provide such information or
assistance as the manager may reasonably require for the purpose of carrying
out the manager’s functions.

2.5.2

Each of the following is a “relevant person” for these purposes—

2.5.2.a

a director of the insurer, or of a body corporate in the same group as the
insurer;

2.5.2.b

an employee of the insurer, or of a body corporate in the same group as the
insurer;

2.5.2.c

a person providing a service to the insurer, or to a body corporate in the
same group as the insurer;

2.5.2.d

a person who has at any relevant time been a person falling within paragraph
(a) ,  (b)  or  (c) .

2.5.3

A relevant person must comply with a requirement under this paragraph to
provide information as soon as is practicable.

2.5.4

The obligation imposed by sub-paragraph  (3)  is enforceable, on the
application of the manager—

2.5.4.a

by an injunction, or

2.5.4.b

in Scotland, by an order for specific performance under section 45 of the
Court of Session Act 1988.

########### Application by manager for directions

2.6

The manager may apply to the court for directions about the carrying out of
the manager’s functions.

########### Challenges to the manager’s actions

2.7

2.7.1

Any of the following persons may apply to the court on the ground that an act,
omission or decision of the manager has unfairly harmed the interests of the
applicant—

2.7.1.a

a director of the insurer;

2.7.1.b

a shareholder of the insurer;

2.7.1.c

a policyholder or other creditor of the insurer;

2.7.1.d

any other person affected by the write-down order.

2.7.2

Any of the following persons may apply to the court on the ground that an act,
omission or decision of the manager is not in the interests of the insurer’s
policyholders and other creditors (taken as a whole)—

2.7.2.a

the FCA;

2.7.2.b

the PRA;

2.7.2.c

the scheme manager of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (see section
212(1));

2.7.2.d

a provisional liquidator of the insurer.

2.7.3

Before making an application under sub-paragraph  (2) —

2.7.3.a

the FCA must consult the PRA;

2.7.3.b

the PRA must consult the FCA;

2.7.3.c

the scheme manager of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme must notify
the FCA and the PRA.

2.7.4

On an application under this paragraph the court may—

2.7.4.a

confirm, reverse or modify any act or decision of the manager,

2.7.4.b

give the manager directions, or

2.7.4.c

make such other order as the court thinks appropriate (but may not, under this
paragraph, order the manager to pay any compensation).

2.7.5

Where an application under this paragraph relates to a failure by the manager
to apply to the court for the variation or termination of the write-down
order, the court may treat the application as an application for an order
under section  377I  made by a person entitled to apply for an order under
that section.

##### Further provision about write-down orders

3

After Schedule 19A to FSMA 2000 (the manager of a write-down order), inserted
by Part 2 of this Schedule, insert—

Further provision about write-down orders

Section 377J

########### Restrictions on enforcement

############ Application of this Part of this Schedule

3.1

3.1.1

This Part of this Schedule applies in relation to an insurer—

3.1.1.a

during the period—

3.1.1.a.i

beginning with the date on which an application is made for a write-down order
in relation to the insurer, and

3.1.1.a.ii

ending with the date on which the order is made or the application is
withdrawn or dismissed;

3.1.1.b

during the period—

3.1.1.b.i

beginning with the date on which a write-down order is made in relation to the
insurer, and

3.1.1.b.ii

ending with the last day of the period of six months beginning with the day on
which the write-down order takes effect (see section  377A (3)(a) );

3.1.1.c

during such further period as the court may order.

3.1.2

This Part of this Schedule ceases to apply—

3.1.2.a

where the court orders that it should cease to apply (and in accordance with
the terms of the order), or

3.1.2.b

where the write-down order ceases to have effect (because, in accordance with
section  377H , each reduction in the value of a liability of the insurer
ceases to have effect).

3.1.3

The court—

3.1.3.a

may make an order under sub-paragraph (1)(c) or  (2)(a)  only on an
application by a person mentioned in sub-paragraph  (4) ;

3.1.3.b

may not specify in an order under sub-paragraph (1)(c) a period longer than
six months (but may make one or more further such orders).

3.1.4

The persons are—

3.1.4.a

a person entitled to make an application for a write-down order in relation to
the insurer (see section  377C (1) );

3.1.4.b

a person appointed under section  377G  to act as the manager of the write-
down order;

3.1.4.c

a provisional liquidator of the insurer;

3.1.4.d

the FCA.

3.1.5

Before making an application for an order under this Part of this Schedule—

3.1.5.a

a person other than the PRA or the Treasury must consult the PRA;

3.1.5.b

the PRA must consult the FCA.

############ Moratorium on proceedings

3.2

3.2.1

Where this Part of this Schedule applies in relation to an insurer, except
with the permission of the court—

3.2.1.a

no step may be taken to enforce security over the insurer’s property;

3.2.1.b

no step may be taken to repossess goods in the insurer’s possession under a
hire-purchase agreement;

3.2.1.c

a landlord may not exercise a right of forfeiture by peaceable re-entry in
relation to premises let to the insurer;

3.2.1.d

in Scotland, a landlord may not exercise a right of irritancy in relation to
premises let to the insurer;

3.2.1.e

no legal process (including legal proceedings, execution, distress or
diligence) may be instituted, carried out or continued against the insurer or
its property.

3.2.2

Where the court gives permission for something to be done that would otherwise
be prevented by this paragraph, it may impose a condition on, or a requirement
in connection with, the permission.

3.2.3

In this paragraph, “ landlord ” includes a person to whom rent is payable.

############ Exceptions

3.3

3.3.1

This Part of this Schedule does not apply in relation to—

3.3.1.a

arrangements entered into after the date on which this Part of this Schedule
first applied in relation to the insurer;

3.3.1.b

employment tribunal proceedings or any legal process arising out of such
proceedings;

3.3.1.c

proceedings, not within paragraph  (b) , involving a claim between an employer
and a worker.

3.3.2

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule—

3.3.2.a

prevents the FCA or the PRA from exercising a function it has in relation to
the insurer or any other person;

3.3.2.b

prevents a consumer from taking steps to enforce a money award or direction
under section 229 or 404B.

3.3.3

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the operation of—

3.3.3.a

Part 7 of the Companies Act 1989 (financial markets and insolvency);

3.3.3.b

the Financial Markets and Insolvency Regulations 1996 ( S.I. 1996/1469 );

3.3.3.c

the Financial Markets and Insolvency (Settlement Finality) Regulations 1999 (
S.I. 1999/2979 );

3.3.3.d

the Financial Collateral Arrangements (No.2) Regulations 2003 ( S.I. 2003/3226
).

3.3.4

The Treasury may by regulations amend sub-paragraph (3).

3.3.5

In this paragraph—

“ agency worker ” has the meaning given by section 13(2) of the Employment
Relations Act 1999; “ arrangements ” includes any agreement, understanding,
scheme, transaction or series of transactions; “employer”— in relation to an
agency worker, has the meaning given by section 13(2) of the Employment
Relations Act 1999; otherwise, has the meaning given by section 230(4) of the
Employment Rights Act 1996; “ worker ” means an individual who is— a worker
within the meaning of section 230(3) of the Employment Rights Act 1996, or an
agency worker.

########### Dealing with assets etc

############ Application of this Part of this Schedule

3.4

This Part of this Schedule applies while a write-down order has effect in
relation to one or more liabilities of an insurer.

############ Dealing with assets

3.5

The insurer may not dispose of, or otherwise deal with, any of its assets
(whether in the United Kingdom or elsewhere) except—

3.5.a

in the ordinary way of the insurer’s business, or

3.5.b

with the consent of the PRA.

############ Paying variable remuneration

3.6

The insurer may not pay variable remuneration that is not regulated by a
collective bargaining agreement, except with the consent of the PRA.

############ Distributions

3.7

The insurer may not make a distribution, within the meaning of Part 23 of the
Companies Act 2006, except with the consent of the PRA.

########### Treatment of written-down liabilities for certain purposes

############ Application of this Part of this Schedule

3.8

3.8.1

This Part of this Schedule applies in relation to a liability of an insurer
while the value of the liability is reduced under a write-down order.

3.8.2

Where the write-down order is varied, this Part of this Schedule applies as if
references to the write-down order were to the order as varied.

############ Relevant insolvency provisions

3.9

3.9.1

In determining the value of the liability for the purposes of a relevant
insolvency provision, no account is to be taken of the contingent or
prospective value of the liability, or interest on the liability, arising from
any expectation that the write-down order will be varied, further varied or
cease to have effect (whether in relation to the liability or generally).

3.9.2

The relevant insolvency provisions are—

3.9.2.a

section 123 of the 1986 Act or Article 103 of the 1989 Order, or any statutory
provision which applies that section or that Article;

3.9.2.b

Article 11 of  Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/35  of 10 October
2014 supplementing  Directive 2009/138/EC  of the European Parliament and of
the Council on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of Insurance and
Reinsurance (Solvency 2);

3.9.2.c

PRA rules applicable to non-directive insurers, within the meaning given by
the Rulebook made by the PRA under this Act (as that Rulebook has effect from
time to time).

3.9.3

The Treasury may by regulations amend sub-paragraph  (2) .

############ Reinsurance contracts

3.10

3.10.1

This paragraph applies where—

3.10.1.a

the liability is a liability under a contract of insurance the insurer carries
out as principal (“contract A”), and

3.10.1.b

the insurer enters into a reinsurance contract under which contract A, or any
liability under contract A, is reinsured (“contract B”).

3.10.2

In determining the value of the liability for the purposes of contract B, no
account is to be taken of the reduction in value of the liability under the
write-down order.

########### Interest

3.11

3.11.1

This Part of this Schedule applies where—

3.11.1.a

the value of a liability of an insurer is reduced under a write-down order,

3.11.1.b

while the write-down order has effect in relation to the liability, an amount
of the liability is due and payable (or would be due and payable but for the
write-down order), and

3.11.1.c

the amount remains due and payable after the reduction ceases to have effect.

3.11.2

The amount carries statutory interest, within the meaning of the Late Payment
of Commercial Debts (Interest) Act 1998, for the period—

3.11.2.a

beginning with the date on which the write-down order took effect or, if
later, the date on which the amount became due and payable (or would have
become due and payable but for the write-down order), and

3.11.2.b

ending with the day on which the amount is paid.

3.11.3

Where a write-down order is varied, this section applies as if references to
the write-down order were to the order as varied.

##### Write-down orders: financial services compensation scheme

4

Part 15 of FSMA 2000 (the Financial Services Compensation Scheme) is amended
as follows.

5

After section 217 (insurers in financial difficulties) insert—

######### Insurers subject to write-down orders

5.217ZA

5.217ZA.1

The compensation scheme must include provision requiring the scheme manager to
take specified measures for safeguarding policyholders affected by write-down
orders.

5.217ZA.2

A person (“ P ”) is a policyholder affected by a write-down order if—

5.217ZA.2.a

P is a policyholder of an insurer in respect of whom a write-down order has
effect, and

5.217ZA.2.b

the value of any thing to which P is (or may become) entitled, in P’s capacity
as a policyholder of the insurer, is reduced under the write-down order.

5.217ZA.3

Measures specified by virtue of subsection  (1)  must, in particular, require
financial assistance to be given to insurers subject to write-down orders for
the purpose mentioned in subsection  (4) .

5.217ZA.4

The purpose is to enable payments to be made to affected policyholders in
respect of the reduction in value of their entitlements (or contingent
entitlements), as mentioned in subsection  (2)(b) .

5.217ZA.5

Financial assistance given under this section—

5.217ZA.5.a

must not be used for any purpose other than the purpose mentioned in
subsection  (4) ;

5.217ZA.5.b

is not to be taken into account, to any extent, in valuing the assets of the
insurer for any purpose.

5.217ZA.6

Measures taken by the scheme manager by virtue of this section are in addition
to any measures the scheme manager may take under powers provided by virtue of
section 217(1).

5.217ZA.7

In this section and section  217ZB —

“ insurer ” means a relevant person who has permission to carry out contracts
of insurance; “ write-down order ” means an order under section 377A (as it
has effect in accordance with section 377H).

######### Recovery of financial assistance under section 

5.217ZB

5.217ZB.1

The compensation scheme may make provision giving the scheme manager a right
of recovery in respect of financial assistance given to an insurer by virtue
of section  217ZA .

5.217ZB.2

Any right of recovery the scheme manager has in respect of financial
assistance given to an insurer by virtue of subsection  (1)  must not be
exercised against a policyholder of the insurer.

5.217ZB.3

Subsection  (4)  applies where, by virtue of subsection  (1) , the scheme
manager has a right of recovery in respect of financial assistance given to an
insurer.

5.217ZB.4

In valuing the insurer’s liabilities for the purposes of a relevant insolvency
provision, no account is to be taken of any expectation that the right will be
exercised.

5.217ZB.5

In subsection  (4) , “ relevant insolvency provision ” has the same meaning as
in paragraph  9  of Schedule 19B (treatment of written-down liabilities for
purposes of relevant insolvency provisions).

6

In section 219 (scheme manager’s power to require information), in subsection
(1A), after paragraph (b) insert—

6.ba

on a person (P) who is an insurer who has been given financial assistance
under section  217ZA ,

.

7

After section 220 (scheme manager’s power to inspect information held by
liquidator etc), insert—

######### Power to inspect information held by write-down manager

7.220A

7.220A.1

For the purpose of assisting the scheme manager to discharge its functions
under section  217ZA  or  217ZB  in relation to an insurer, a person to whom
this section applies must permit a person authorised by the scheme manager to
inspect relevant documents.

7.220A.2

This section applies to a person appointed under section  377G  to act as the
manager of a write-down order which has effect in relation to the insurer.

7.220A.3

A person inspecting a document under this section may take copies of, or
extracts from, the document.

##### Consequential amendments

###### FSMA 2000

8

FSMA 2000 is amended as follows.

9

9.1

Section 348 (restrictions on disclosure of confidential information by FCA,
PRA etc) is amended as follows.

9.2

After subsection (2) insert—

9.2.2A

Where the primary recipient is a person appointed under section  377G  to act
as the manager of a write-down order, subsection (2)(b) has effect as if the
reference to the discharge of functions of the FCA, PRA or Secretary of State
were to the functions of that person.

9.3

In subsection (5), after paragraph (d) insert—

9.3.da

a person appointed under section  377G  to act as the manager of a write-down
order;

.

10

In section 429 (Parliamentary control of statutory instruments), in subsection
(2B), after paragraph (c) insert—

10.d

provision made under paragraph 3(4) or  9(3)  of Schedule 19B;

.

11

In Schedule 1ZB (the PRA), in paragraph 33(2) (exemption from liability in
damages), for “and 284” insert  “, 284 and  377G ” .

###### Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Disclosure of Confidential Information) Regulations 2001

12

In Part 1 of Schedule 1 to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
(Disclosure of Confidential Information) Regulations 2001 ( S.I. 2001/2188 )
(disclosure of confidential information whether or not subject to retained EU
law restrictions), at the end of the table insert—

A person appointed under section  377G  of the Act to act as the manager of a
write-down order  That person’s functions in relation to the write-down order

.

  Insurers in financial difficulties: enforcement of contracts

Section 58

##### New Schedule 19C to FSMA 2000

1

1.1

Part 24 of FSMA 2000 (insolvency) is amended as follows.

1.2

After section 377J (further provision about write-down orders), inserted by
Part 1 of Schedule 12 to this Act, insert—

########### Insurers in financial difficulties: enforcement of contracts

1.2.377K

Schedule 19C makes provision about the enforcement of certain contracts to
which an insurer is a party while the insurer is in financial difficulties
(within the meaning given by the Schedule).

1.3

After Schedule 19B (further provision about write-down orders), inserted by
Part 3 of Schedule 12 to this Act, insert—

  Insurers in financial difficulties: enforcement of contracts

Section 377K

############# Introductory

############## Application of this Schedule

1.3.1

This Schedule applies in relation to an insurer while the insurer is in
financial difficulties.

############## “Financial difficulties”

1.3.2

1.3.2.1

An insurer is in “ financial difficulties ” for the purposes of this Schedule
if—

1.3.2.1.a

Part 1 of Schedule 19B (write-down orders: restrictions on enforcement) has
effect in relation to the insurer (see paragraph 1(1) and  (2)  of that
Schedule);

1.3.2.1.b

the insurer is in administration, within the meaning of Schedule B1 to the
1986 Act or Schedule B1 to the 1989 Order, or awaiting administration;

1.3.2.1.c

a petition for the winding up of the insurer has been presented and has not
been withdrawn or determined.

1.3.2.2

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1)(b) , an insurer is awaiting
administration while an application for an administration order in respect of
the insurer has been made to the court and—

1.3.2.2.a

the application has not yet been granted or dismissed, or

1.3.2.2.b

the application has been granted but the administration order has not yet
taken effect.

1.3.2.3

For the purposes of this Schedule, an insurer “enters into financial
difficulties”—

1.3.2.3.a

in a case to which sub-paragraph  (1)(a)  applies, on the date on which Part 1
of Schedule 19B first has effect in relation to the insurer;

1.3.2.3.b

in a case to which sub-paragraph  (1)(b)  applies, on the date on which the
application for the administration order is made to the court;

1.3.2.3.c

in a case to which sub-paragraph  (1)(c)  applies, on the date on which the
winding-up petition is presented.

############# Policyholder surrender rights

############## Restriction on policyholder surrender rights

1.3.3

1.3.3.1

Where this Schedule applies in relation to an insurer, the total value of a
policyholder’s rights under a relevant contract of insurance which the
policyholder may surrender in a relevant period must not exceed the surrender
limit for that period.

1.3.3.2

For these purposes—

      “ relevant contract of insurance ” means a contract of long-term
insurance which is not a contract in respect of which the following conditions
are met—         the benefits under the contract are payable only on death or
in respect of incapacity due to injury, sickness or infirmity;           the
contract has no surrender value, or the consideration consists of a single
premium and the surrender value does not exceed that premium;           the
contract makes no provision for its conversion or extension in a manner which
would result in it ceasing to comply with either of the above conditions;
“ relevant period ” means—         the period of 12 months beginning with the
date on which the insurer entered into financial difficulties, and
each subsequent period of 12 months;                 “ surrender limit ”, in
relation to a relevant contract of insurance and relevant period, is an amount
equal to 5% of the total surrender value of the contract on the day on which
the relevant period began.

############## Switching rights

1.3.4

1.3.4.1

This paragraph applies where the value of a right under a relevant contract of
insurance is wholly or partly determined by reference to property of any
description.

1.3.4.2

The reference in paragraph  3 (1)  to the surrender of rights by a
policyholder includes the exercise by the policyholder of a contractual right
to change the property by reference to which the value of a right is (wholly
or partly) determined.

############## Consent to exceed surrender limit

1.3.5

1.3.5.1

Paragraph  3 (1)  does not apply if, or to the extent that, consent for the
surrender of an amount that would exceed the surrender limit for the relevant
period has been given by—

1.3.5.1.a

the court,

1.3.5.1.b

a relevant office-holder, or

1.3.5.1.c

where there is no relevant office-holder, the insurer.

1.3.5.2

For these purposes, “ relevant office-holder ” means—

1.3.5.2.a

a provisional liquidator of the insurer;

1.3.5.2.b

an administrator of the insurer;

1.3.5.2.c

a person appointed to act as the manager of a write-down order that has effect
in relation to the insurer.

1.3.5.3

The court, a relevant office-holder or the insurer (as the case may be) may
give consent under sub-paragraph  (1)  only if satisfied that not doing so
would cause the policyholder hardship.

1.3.5.4

Where a provisional liquidator of an insurer has been appointed, the manager
of a write-down order that has effect in relation to the insurer must obtain
the consent of the provisional liquidator before giving consent under sub-
paragraph  (1) .

1.3.5.5

As soon as reasonably practicable after giving consent under sub-paragraph
(1) , a relevant office-holder or the insurer must notify the PRA.

############# Termination etc of relevant contracts

############## Relevant contracts

1.3.6

1.3.6.1

For the purposes of this Part of this Schedule, a contract to which an insurer
is a party is a “relevant contract” if it is—

1.3.6.1.a

a contract for the supply of goods or services to the insurer,

1.3.6.1.b

a financial contract, or

1.3.6.1.c

a reinsurance contract under which contracts of insurance the insurer carries
out as principal are reinsured.

1.3.6.2

“ Financial contract ” means—

1.3.6.2.a

a contract for the provision of financial services consisting of—

1.3.6.2.a.i

lending (including the factoring and financing of commercial transactions),

1.3.6.2.a.ii

financial leasing, or

1.3.6.2.a.iii

providing guarantees or commitments;

1.3.6.2.b

a securities contract, including—

1.3.6.2.b.i

a contract for the purchase, sale or loan of a security or group or index of
securities;

1.3.6.2.b.ii

an option on a security or group or index of securities;

1.3.6.2.b.iii

a repurchase or reverse repurchase transaction on any such security, group or
index;

1.3.6.2.c

a commodities contract, including—

1.3.6.2.c.i

a contract for the purchase, sale or loan of a commodity or group or index of
commodities for future delivery;

1.3.6.2.c.ii

an option on a commodity or group or index of commodities;

1.3.6.2.c.iii

a repurchase or reverse repurchase transaction on any such commodity, group or
index;

1.3.6.2.d

a futures or forwards contract, including a contract (other than a commodities
contract) for the purchase, sale or transfer of a commodity or property of any
other description, service, right or interest for a specified price at a
future date;

1.3.6.2.e

a swap agreement, including—

1.3.6.2.e.i

a swap or option relating to interest rates, spot or other foreign exchange
agreements, currency, an equity index or equity, a debt index or debt,
commodity indexes or commodities, weather, emissions or inflation;

1.3.6.2.e.ii

a total return, credit spread or credit swap;

1.3.6.2.e.iii

any agreement or transaction similar to an agreement that is referred to in
sub-paragraph (i) or (ii) and is the subject of recurrent dealing in the swaps
or derivatives markets.

1.3.6.3

But a master agreement for any contract or agreement referred to in sub-
paragraph  (2)  is not a relevant contract for the purposes of this Part of
this Schedule.

1.3.6.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (2) , “ commodities ” includes—

1.3.6.4.a

units recognised for compliance with the requirements of  EU Directive
2003/87/EC  establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance
trading,

1.3.6.4.b

allowances under paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 to the Climate Change Act 2008
relating to a trading scheme dealt with under Part 1 of that Schedule (schemes
limiting activities relating to emissions of greenhouse gas), and

1.3.6.4.c

renewables obligation certificates issued—

1.3.6.4.c.i

by the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority under an order made under section
32B of the Electricity Act 1989, or

1.3.6.4.c.ii

by the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation under the Energy
(Northern Ireland) Order 2003 ( S.I. 2003/419 (N.I. 6) ) and pursuant to an
order made under Articles 52 to 55F of that Order.

############## Restriction on termination etc

1.3.7

1.3.7.1

Where this Schedule applies in relation to an insurer, a provision of a
relevant contract, entered into by the insurer before the insurer first enters
into financial difficulties, ceases to have effect if, and to the extent that,
under the provision—

1.3.7.1.a

the contract would terminate, a supply would cease, or any other thing would
occur, because the insurer is in financial difficulties, or

1.3.7.1.b

another party to the contract would be entitled to terminate the contract,
cease a supply, or do any other thing, because the insurer is in financial
difficulties.

1.3.7.2

Where—

1.3.7.2.a

under a provision of a relevant contract, another party to the contract is
entitled to terminate the contract, cease a supply, or do any other thing
because of an event occurring before the insurer was in financial
difficulties, and

1.3.7.2.b

the entitlement arises before the insurer was in financial difficulties,

the entitlement may not be exercised while the insurer is in financial
difficulties.

1.3.7.3

A supplier of goods or services to an insurer must not—

1.3.7.3.a

make it a condition of a supply of goods or services, while the insurer is in
financial difficulties, that any outstanding charges in respect of a supply
made to the insurer before the insurer is in financial difficulties are paid,
or

1.3.7.3.b

do anything which has that effect.

############## Consent to terminate relevant contracts

1.3.8

1.3.8.1

Sub-paragraph  (2)  applies where—

1.3.8.1.a

a provision of a relevant contract ceases to have effect under paragraph  7
(1) , or

1.3.8.1.b

an entitlement under a provision of a relevant contract is not exercisable
under paragraph  7 (2) .

1.3.8.2

A party to the contract (other than the insurer) may terminate the contract,
or do another thing in relation to the contract, if consent to terminate the
contract or do that other thing (as the case may be) has been given by—

1.3.8.2.a

the court,

1.3.8.2.b

a relevant office holder, or

1.3.8.2.c

where there is no relevant office-holder, the insurer.

1.3.8.3

For these purposes, “ relevant office-holder ” means an administrator or
provisional liquidator of the insurer (but does not include a person appointed
to act as the manager of a write-down order that has effect in relation to the
insurer).

1.3.8.4

The court, a relevant office-holder or the insurer (as the case may be) may
give consent under sub-paragraph  (2)  only if satisfied that not doing so
would cause hardship to any person.

1.3.8.5

As soon as reasonably practicable after giving consent under sub-paragraph
(2) , a relevant office-holder or the insurer must notify the PRA.

############# Exclusions and disapplication of this Schedule

############## Exclusions

1.3.9

1.3.9.1

Nothing in this Schedule affects the operation of—

1.3.9.1.a

Part 7 of the Companies Act 1989 (financial markets and insolvency);

1.3.9.1.b

the Financial Markets and Insolvency Regulations 1996 ( S.I. 1996/1469 );

1.3.9.1.c

the Financial Markets and Insolvency (Settlement Finality) Regulations 1999 (
S.I. 1999/2979 );

1.3.9.1.d

the Financial Collateral Arrangements (No.2) Regulations 2003 ( S.I. 2003/3226
).

1.3.9.2

Nothing in this Schedule affects any protected arrangements within the meaning
of section 48P of the Banking Act 2009.

############## Disapplication of this Schedule by the court

1.3.10

1.3.10.1

The court may order that this Schedule, or a specified provision of this
Schedule—

1.3.10.a

does not apply (insofar as it would otherwise) in relation to one or more
contracts to which the insurer is a party, or

1.3.10.b

applies with specified modifications in relation to one or more such
contracts.

1.3.10.2

An order under this paragraph—

1.3.10.2.a

must specify the contracts to which it applies;

1.3.10.2.b

may specify all of the contracts to which the insurer is a party (and to which
one or more provisions of this Schedule would otherwise apply).

1.3.10.3

For the purposes of an order under this paragraph—

      “ contract ” includes a contract of insurance;           “ specified ”
means specified or described in the order.

1.3.10.4

The court may make an order under this paragraph only if satisfied that one or
more of the following grounds is made out—

1.3.10.4.a

not making the order would be likely to cause hardship to any person (other
than the insurer);

1.3.10.4.b

where the insurer is in financial difficulties by virtue of paragraph  2(1)(a)
(write-down order), making the order is reasonably likely to lead to a better
outcome for the insurer’s policyholders and other creditors (taken as a whole)
than not making the order;

1.3.10.4.c

where the insurer is in financial difficulties by virtue of paragraph  2(1)(b)
(administration), making the order is reasonably likely to promote the purpose
of administration.

1.3.10.5

The “ purpose of administration ” means—

1.3.10.5.a

where the insurer is in, or is awaiting, administration under Part 2 of the
1986 Act (as modified, in relation to insurers, by the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (Administration Orders Relating to Insurers) Order 2010 (
S.I. 2010/3023 )), an objective specified in paragraph 3 or 3A of Schedule B1
to the 1986 Act;

1.3.10.5.b

where the insurer is in, or is awaiting, administration under Part 3 of the
1989 Order (as modified, in relation to insurers, by the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 (Administration Orders Relating to Insurers) (Northern
Ireland) Order 2007 ( S.I. 2007/846 )), an objective specified in paragraph 4
of Schedule B1 to the 1989 Order.

############## Procedure

1.3.11

1.3.11.1

An order under paragraph  10  may be made on the court’s own motion or on an
application by—

1.3.11.1.a

where the insurer is in financial difficulties by virtue of paragraph  2(1)(a)
(write-down order), a person mentioned in paragraph  1(4)  of Schedule 19B;

1.3.11.1.b

where the insurer is in financial difficulties by virtue of paragraph  2(1)(b)
(administration), a person mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2) ;

1.3.11.1.c

where the insurer is in financial difficulties by virtue of paragraph  2(1)(c)
(winding up), a person entitled to petition for the winding up of the insurer;

1.3.11.1.d

a provisional liquidator of the insurer;

1.3.11.1.e

the FCA.

1.3.11.2

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1)(b) , the persons are—

1.3.11.2.a

where an administrator has been appointed, the administrator;

1.3.11.2.b

where the insurer is in, or is awaiting, administration under Part 2 of the
1986 Act, a person mentioned in paragraph 12(1) of Schedule B1 to that Act;

1.3.11.2.c

where the insurer is in, or is awaiting, administration under Part 3 of the
1989 Order, a person mentioned in paragraph 13(1) of Schedule B1 to that
Order.

1.3.11.3

Before making an application for an order under paragraph  10 —

1.3.11.3.a

a person other than a person mentioned in sub-paragraph  (4)  must obtain the
consent of the PRA;

1.3.11.3.b

a person mentioned in sub-paragraph  (4)  must consult the PRA.

1.3.11.4

The persons mentioned in this sub-paragraph are—

1.3.11.4.a

the FCA;

1.3.11.4.b

an administrator of the insurer;

1.3.11.4.c

a provisional liquidator of the insurer;

1.3.11.4.d

a person appointed to act as the manager of the write-down order by virtue of
which the insurer is in financial difficulties for the purposes of this
Schedule.

1.3.11.5

Consent under sub-paragraph  (3)(a) —

1.3.11.5.a

must be in writing, and

1.3.11.5.b

must be filed with the court with the relevant application.

1.3.11.6

The PRA must consult the FCA before giving or refusing consent under sub-
paragraph  (3)(a) .

############# Powers to amend this Schedule

1.3.12

The Treasury may by regulations amend this Schedule so as to—

1.3.12.a

vary or omit any of paragraphs  (a) ,  (b)  and  (c)  of paragraph  2(1) ;

1.3.12.b

change the percentage figure specified in the definition of “surrender limit”
in paragraph  3(2) ;

1.3.12.c

amend paragraph  6  (meaning of “ relevant contract ”);

1.3.12.d

amend paragraph  9  (exclusions from the operation of this Schedule).

##### Consequential amendments

2

In section 429 of FSMA 2000 (Parliamentary control of statutory instruments),
in subsection (2B), at the end insert—

2.e

provision made under paragraph  12  of Schedule 19C.

Credit unions

Section 73

##### Introductory

1

The Credit Unions Act 1979 is amended as follows.

##### Specified financial activities

2

2.1

Section 1 (registration) is amended as follows.

2.2

After subsection (2) insert—

2.2.2A

The objects of a credit union are—

2.2.2A.a

each of the mandatory objects specified in subsection (3), or

2.2.2A.b

each of those mandatory objects together with the optional object specified in
subsection  (3ZZA) .

2.3

In subsection (3), in the words before paragraph (a), before “objects” insert
“mandatory” .

2.4

After subsection (3) insert—

2.4.3ZZA

The optional object of a credit union is to carry on one or more of the
financial activities specified in section  1ZA (1)  for the benefit of the
members of the society.

2.5

In subsection (3ZA), for “subsection (3)” substitute  “subsections (3) and
(3ZZA) ” .

3

After section 1 insert—

######### Specified financial activities

3.1ZA

3.1ZA.1

The financial activities specified for the purposes of the optional object of
a credit union (see section 1 (3ZZA) ) are—

3.1ZA.1.a

entering into conditional sale agreements, as the seller;

3.1ZA.1.b

entering into hire purchase agreements, as the person from whom goods are
bailed or (in Scotland) hired;

3.1ZA.1.c

insurance distribution activities.

3.1ZA.2

The Treasury may by regulations specify requirements or restrictions in
relation to the carrying on by a credit union of a financial activity
specified in subsection  (1) .

######### Power to specify further financial activities

3.1ZB

3.1ZB.1

The Treasury may by regulations—

3.1ZB.1.a

amend section  1ZA  so as to specify further financial activities for the
purposes of the optional object of a credit union;

3.1ZB.1.b

make such amendments of this Act, or any other enactment, as appear to them to
be appropriate in consequence of any provision made under paragraph  (a) .

3.1ZB.2

Amendments made by regulations under subsection  (1)  may, in particular,
provide that a credit union may carry on a financial activity specified in the
regulations if the credit union has the optional object specified in section 1
(3ZZA) .

3.1ZB.3

Regulations under section  1ZA (2)  made in relation to a financial activity
specified in regulations under subsection  (1)  may, in particular, make
provision about fees or other charges payable in respect of the activity or
activities that are ancillary to the activity.

3.1ZB.4

Before making regulations under this section, the Treasury must consult such
persons as appear to them to be appropriate.

3.1ZB.5

A statutory instrument containing (whether alone or with other provision)
regulations under this section may not be made unless a draft of the
instrument has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each House
of Parliament.

4

In section 2 (supplementary and transitional provisions as to registration),
in subsection (3)—

4.a

for “those” substitute  “the mandatory objects” ;

4.b

after “section 1(3) above” insert  “(whether or not the society also has the
optional object specified in section 1 (3ZZA)  above)” .

##### Shares

5

In section 7 (shares), in subsection (5)—

5.a

at the beginning insert  “Subsection (5A) applies” ;

5.b

the words from “made a loan” to “secured loan” become paragraph (a);

5.c

at the end of that paragraph insert

, or

5.c.b

entered into an agreement mentioned in section  11E (1)  with a member, which
is treated by virtue of section  11F (2)  as a secured agreement.

;

5.d

the words from “the member” to the end become subsection (5A).

##### Ancillary services

6

6.1

Section 9A (power to charge for ancillary services) is amended as follows.

6.2

In subsection (2), in the words before paragraph (a), for “the activity of
accepting a deposit or making a loan” substitute  “an activity mentioned in
subsection (3)” .

6.3

After subsection (2) insert—

6.3.3

The activities mentioned in this subsection are—

6.3.3.a

accepting a deposit;

6.3.3.b

making a loan;

6.3.3.c

entering into a conditional sale agreement, as the seller;

6.3.3.d

entering into a hire purchase agreement, as the person from whom goods are
bailed or (in Scotland) hired.

##### Loans

7

7.1

Section 11 (loans) is amended as follows.

7.2

In subsection (1)—

7.2.a

omit “to a member”;

7.2.b

at the end insert

, to—

7.2.b.a

a member, or

7.2.b.b

another credit union (whether or not a member).

7.3

After subsection (1) insert—

7.3.1ZA

Where a loan is made under subsection (1)(b) to a credit union that is not a
member of the lending credit union, the maximum period within which the loan
must be repaid is six months.

7.4

After subsection (7) insert—

7.4.8

An order under subsection (5) may make different provision in relation to—

7.4.8.a

loans made to a member;

7.4.8.b

loans made to a credit union that is not a member of the lending credit union.

##### Conditional sale and hire purchase agreements

8

Before section 12 (power to hold land for limited purposes) insert—

######### Conditional sale and hire purchase agreements

8.11E

8.11E.1

If the objects of a credit union include the optional object specified in
section 1 (3ZZA)  it may (subject to such terms, including as to security, as
its rules may provide)—

8.11E.1.a

enter into a conditional sale agreement, as the seller, with a member of the
credit union, or

8.11E.1.b

enter into a hire purchase agreement, as the person from whom goods are bailed
or (in Scotland) hired, with a member of the credit union.

8.11E.2

A credit union may only enter into an agreement mentioned in subsection  (1)
with a corporate member if—

8.11E.2.a

the credit union’s rules provide that it may do so, and

8.11E.2.b

entering into the agreement would not result in the aggregate of the
outstanding balances under all such agreements made by the credit union with
corporate members exceeding 10% of the aggregate of the outstanding balances
under all such agreements made by the credit union with members, or such
higher percentage as may be specified in regulations made by the Treasury.

8.11E.3

Subsection  (4)  applies where—

8.11E.3.a

an agreement mentioned in subsection  (1)  is entered into by a credit union
with a member, and

8.11E.3.b

the agreement is not a secured agreement within the meaning of section  11F .

8.11E.4

The terms of the agreement must include provision as to whether, for the
duration of the agreement, the member is permitted to withdraw shares where
the member’s paid-up shareholding in the credit union is, or following the
withdrawal would be, less than the member’s total liability (including
contingent liability) to the credit union.

8.11E.5

Any interest charged under an agreement mentioned in subsection  (1) —

8.11E.5.a

must not exceed the rate specified in subsection  (7) , and

8.11E.5.b

must be inclusive of all administrative and other expenses incurred in
connection with the making of the agreement.

8.11E.6

The rate specified in this subsection is 3% per month on the sum outstanding
under the agreement.

8.11E.7

The Treasury may by regulations amend subsection  (7)  to substitute a
different rate for the rate that is for the time being specified.

######### Agreements to be treated as secured

8.11F

8.11F.1

This section applies where—

8.11F.1.a

a credit union enters into an agreement mentioned in section  11E (1)  with a
member of the credit union, and

8.11F.1.b

at the time the agreement is entered into, the member’s paid-up shareholding
in the credit union is equal to or greater than the member’s total liability
(including contingent liability) to the credit union.

8.11F.2

On the application of the member to the credit union, the agreement is to be
treated for the purposes of this Act as a secured agreement.

##### Insurance distribution activities

9

After section  11F  (inserted by paragraph  8 ) insert—

######### Insurance distribution activities

9.11G

If the objects of a credit union include the optional object specified in
section 1 (3ZZA) , it may (subject to such terms as the rules of the credit
union may provide)—

9.11G.a

carry on an insurance distribution activity which constitutes or involves the
provision of a service to a member, and

9.11G.b

charge such fee as it considers appropriate for providing the service.

##### Minor and consequential amendments

10

In section 12 (power to hold land for limited purposes), in subsection (3)—

10.a

the words from “making loans” to the end become paragraph (a);

10.b

at the end of that paragraph insert

, or

10.b.b

entering into agreements mentioned in section  11E (1)  with members on the
security of an interest in land and of enforcing any such security.

11

In section 23A (power to make provision corresponding to provision applying to
building societies), omit subsection (5).

12

In section 29 (orders and regulations), in subsection (2) for “section”
substitute  “sections  1ZB (5)  and” .

13

13.1

Section 31 (interpretation, etc.) is amended as follows.

13.2

In subsection (1), at the appropriate places insert—

“ conditional sale agreement ” means an agreement for the sale of goods under
which— the purchase price or part of it is payable by instalments, and the
property in the goods is to remain with the seller (notwithstanding that the
buyer is to be in possession of the goods) until such conditions as to the
payment of instalments or otherwise as may be specified in the agreement are
fulfilled;

;

“ enactment ” includes— an enactment contained in subordinate legislation
within the meaning of the Interpretation Act 1978; an enactment contained in,
or in an instrument made under, an Act of the Scottish Parliament; an
enactment contained in, or in an instrument made under, Northern Ireland
legislation within the meaning of the Interpretation Act 1978; an enactment
contained in, or in an instrument made under, a Measure or Act of the National
Assembly for Wales;

;

“ hire purchase agreement ” means an agreement— which is not a conditional
sale agreement, under which goods are bailed or (in Scotland) hired to a
person (“ P ”) in return for periodical payments by P, and the property in the
goods will pass to P if the terms of the agreement are complied with and one
or more of the following occurs— the exercise by P of an option to purchase
the goods; the doing by any party to the agreement of any other act specified
in the agreement; the happening of any event specified in the agreement;

.

13.3

After subsection (1A) insert—

13.3.1B

In this Act, “ insurance distribution activity ” means any of the following
activities—

13.3.1B.a

dealing in rights under a contract of insurance as agent;

13.3.1B.b

arranging deals in rights under a contract of insurance;

13.3.1B.c

assisting in the administration and performance of a contract of insurance;

13.3.1B.d

advising on buying or selling rights under a contract of insurance;

13.3.1B.e

agreeing to do any of the activities specified in paragraphs  (a)  to  (d) .

13.3.1C

Subsection  (1B)  must be read with—

13.3.1C.a

section 22 of the 2000 Act;

13.3.1C.b

any relevant order under that section; and

13.3.1C.c

Schedule 2 to that Act.

13.4

In subsection (4)—

13.4.a

in the words before paragraph (a), omit “(which are replaced by, or are
inconsistent with, provisions of the 2000 Act)”;

13.4.b

omit paragraph (b);

13.4.c

omit paragraph (d).

14

In Schedule 1 (matters to be provided for in rules of credit union), in
paragraph 9, after “members”, in both places, insert  “or other credit unions”
.

##### Transitional provision

15

The amendments made by paragraphs  7(3)  and  14  do not apply in relation to
a loan made by a credit union to another credit union before the earliest date
on which either of those amendments comes into force (whether or not any
amount of the loan remains outstanding on or after that date).

16

The amendment made by paragraph  13(4)(b)  does not apply in relation to a
year of account of a credit union beginning before the date on which that
amendment comes in force (and accordingly, sections 77 and 78 of the Co-
operative and Community Benefit Societies Act 2014 do not apply in relation to
any such year of account).

