Title: Finance (No. 2) Act 2023
Date: 2024-06-25
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/30

## Finance (No. 2) Act 2023

                                    Most Gracious Sovereign
W e  , Your Majesty’s most dutiful and loyal subjects, the Commons of the
United Kingdom in Parliament assembled, towards raising the necessary supplies
to defray Your Majesty’s public expenses, and making an addition to the public
revenue, have freely and voluntarily resolved to give and to grant unto Your
Majesty the several duties hereinafter mentioned; and do therefore most humbly
beseech Your Majesty that it may be enacted, and be it enacted by the King’s
most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords
Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and
by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Income tax, corporation tax and capital gains tax

#### Income tax charge, rates etc

##### Income tax charge for tax year 2023-24

1

Income tax is charged for the tax year 2023-24.

##### Main rates of income tax for tax year 2023-24

2

For the tax year 2023-24 the main rates of income tax are as follows—

2.a

the basic rate is 20%,

2.b

the higher rate is 40%, and

2.c

the additional rate is 45%.

##### Default and savings rates of income tax for tax year 2023-24

3

3.1

For the tax year 2023-24 the default rates of income tax are as follows—

3.1.a

the default basic rate is 20%,

3.1.b

the default higher rate is 40%, and

3.1.c

the default additional rate is 45%.

3.2

For the tax year 2023-24 the savings rates of income tax are as follows—

3.2.a

the savings basic rate is 20%,

3.2.b

the savings higher rate is 40%, and

3.2.c

the savings additional rate is 45%.

##### Freezing starting rate limit for savings for tax year 2023-24

4

4.1

For the tax year 2023-24 the amount specified in section 12(3) of ITA 2007
(the starting rate limit for savings) is “£5,000”.

4.2

Accordingly, section 21 of that Act (indexation) does not apply in relation to
the starting rate limit for savings for that tax year.

#### Corporation tax charge and rates

##### Charge and main rate for financial year 2024

5

5.1

Corporation tax is charged for the financial year 2024.

5.2

The main rate of corporation tax for that year is 25%.

##### Standard small profits rate and fraction for financial year 2024

6

6.1

For the purposes of Part 3A of CTA 2010, for the financial year 2024—

6.1.a

the standard small profits rate is 19%, and

6.1.b

the standard marginal relief fraction is 3/200ths.

#### Capital allowances

##### Temporary full expensing etc for expenditure on plant or machinery

7

7.1

Part 2 of CAA 2001 (plant and machinery allowances)   is amended as follows .

7.2

Section 39 (first-year allowances available for certain types of qualifying
expenditure only) has effect as if after the entry relating to section 45O
there were inserted—

section 45S expenditure on plant or machinery in other cases

.

7.3

Chapter 4 has effect as if after section 45R there were inserted—

########### Expenditure on plant or machinery in other cases

7.3.45S

Expenditure is first-year qualifying expenditure if—

7.3.45S.a

it is incurred on or after 1 April 2023  ...,

7.3.45S.b

it is incurred by a company within the charge to corporation tax,

7.3.45S.c

it is expenditure on plant or machinery which is unused and not second-hand,
and

7.3.45S.d

it is not excluded by section 45T (exclusion of expenditure under
disqualifying arrangements) or 46 (general exclusions).

########### Exclusion of expenditure incurred under disqualifying arrangements

7.3.45T

7.3.45T.1

Expenditure is not first-year qualifying expenditure under section 45S if the
expenditure is incurred directly or indirectly in consequence of, or otherwise
in connection with, disqualifying arrangements.

7.3.45T.2

Arrangements are “ disqualifying arrangements ” for the purposes of this
section if—

7.3.45T.2.a

the main purpose, or one of the main purposes, of the arrangements is to
secure a tax advantage connected with expenditure being first-year qualifying
expenditure under section 45S (including securing the advantage by avoiding a
balancing charge under section 59A or 59B or reducing the amount or timing of
such a charge), and

7.3.45T.2.b

it is reasonable, taking account of all the relevant circumstances—

7.3.45T.2.b.i

to conclude that the arrangements are, or include steps that are, contrived,
abnormal or lacking a genuine commercial purpose, or

7.3.45T.2.b.ii

to regard the arrangements as circumventing the intended limits of relief
under this Act or otherwise exploiting shortcomings in this Act.

7.3.45T.3

In this section “arrangements” include any agreement, understanding, scheme,
transaction or series of transactions (whether or not legally enforceable).

7.4

Section 46 (general exclusions) has effect as if—

7.4.a

in subsection (1), after the entry relating to section 45O there were
inserted—

section 45S expenditure on plant or machinery in other cases

, and

7.4.b

after subsection (4) there were inserted—

7.4.b.4A

General exclusion 6 does not prevent expenditure being first-year qualifying
expenditure under  section 45S  if the plant or machinery is provided for
leasing under an excluded lease of background plant or machinery for a
building.

7.5

Section 52 (first-year allowances) has effect as if in subsection (3), in the
table, at the end there were inserted—

Expenditure qualifying under  section 45S  (expenditure on plant or machinery
in other cases) which is not special rate expenditure 100% Expenditure
qualifying under  section 45S  (expenditure on plant or machinery in other
cases) which is special rate expenditure 50%

.

7.6

Chapter 5 has effect as if after section 59 there were inserted—

########### Special balancing charge in cases of 

############ Disposal of assets where first-year allowance made under section 45S for expenditure which is not special rate expenditure

7.6.59A

7.6.59A.1

This section applies if a first-year allowance has been made to a company in
respect of first-year qualifying expenditure under  section 45S  which is not
special rate expenditure.

7.6.59A.2

If the company is required to bring a disposal value into account for an
accounting period by reference to the plant or machinery on which the
expenditure is incurred, the company is liable to a balancing charge for that
period (whether or not it is also liable to any other balancing charge for
that period).

7.6.59A.3

The amount of the balancing charge is the relevant proportion of the disposal
value; and the relevant proportion is determined by dividing—

7.6.59A.3.a

the amount of the expenditure that was the subject of the allowance, by

7.6.59A.3.b

the total amount of expenditure that has been the subject of that or any other
first-year allowance or has been allocated to a pool for that or any other
accounting period.

7.6.59A.4

In relation to the accounting period for which the disposal value is brought
into account, TDR (see section 55(1)(b)) for the pool to which the expenditure
that was the subject of the allowance was allocated is to be reduced by the
amount of the balancing charge.

############ Disposal of assets where first-year allowance made under section 45S for expenditure which is special rate expenditure

7.6.59B

7.6.59B.1

This section applies if a first-year allowance has been made to a company in
respect of first-year qualifying expenditure under  section 45S  which is
special rate expenditure.

7.6.59B.2

If the company is required to bring a disposal value into account for an
accounting period by reference to the plant or machinery on which the
expenditure is incurred, the company is liable to a balancing charge for that
period (whether or not it is also liable to any other balancing charge for
that period).

7.6.59B.3

The amount of the balancing charge is the relevant proportion of the disposal
value; and the relevant proportion is determined by—

7.6.59B.3.a

dividing the amount of the expenditure that was the subject of the allowance
by two, and

7.6.59B.3.b

dividing the result of that division by the total amount of expenditure that
has been the subject of that or any other first-year allowance or has been
allocated to a pool for that or any other accounting period.

7.6.59B.4

In relation to the accounting period for which the disposal value is brought
into account, TDR (see section 55(1)(b)) for the pool to which the expenditure
that was the subject of the allowance was allocated is to be reduced by the
amount of the balancing charge.

############ Sections 

7.6.59C

7.6.59C.1

This section applies if arrangements are entered into the main purpose, or one
of the main purposes, of which is—

7.6.59C.1.a

to secure that a balancing charge under section  59A  or  59B  is not
chargeable on a company, or

7.6.59C.1.b

to secure a reduction in the amount, or a change in the timing, of a balancing
charge under section  59A  or  59B   which is chargeable on a company.

7.6.59C.2

Sections  59A  and  59B  are to have effect as if the arrangements had not
been entered into.

7.6.59C.3

In this section “arrangements” include any agreement, understanding, scheme,
transaction or series of transactions (whether or not legally enforceable).

##### Annual investment allowance to remain at £1M beyond temporary period

8

8.1

The amount of £1,000,000 which is specified in section 51A(5) of CAA 2001 as
the maximum allowance in relation to expenditure incurred in the period
beginning with 1 January 2019 and ending with 31 March 2023 is to be the
amount of the maximum allowance in relation to expenditure incurred on or
after 1 April 2023 (as well as in relation to expenditure incurred in that
period).

8.2

Accordingly—

8.2.a

in section 51A of CAA 2001, for the amount specified in subsection (5) as the
maximum allowance (which in the absence of this section would be £200,000 in
relation to expenditure incurred on or after 1 April 2023) substitute
“£1,000,000” , and

8.2.b

the temporary AIA transitional provisions cease to have effect in relation to
chargeable periods beginning before 1 April 2023 and ending on or after that
date.

8.3

For this purpose “ the temporary AIA transitional provisions ” means—

8.3.a

paragraphs 2 and 3 of Schedule 13 to FA 2019, and

8.3.b

section 32 of FA 2019, section 15 of FA 2021 and section 12 of FA 2022 so far
as relating to those paragraphs.

##### First-year allowance for expenditure on electric vehicle charge points

9

In section 45EA of CAA 2001 (expenditure on plant or machinery for electric
vehicle charging point), in subsection (3) (the relevant period), in
paragraphs (a) and (b), for “2023” substitute  “2025” .

#### Other reliefs relating to businesses

##### Relief for research and development

10

Schedule 1  makes provision in relation to the corporation tax relief
contained in Chapter 6A of Part 3 of CTA 2009 (trade profits: R&D expenditure
credits) and Part 13 of CTA 2009 (additional relief for expenditure on
research and development)—

10.a

conferring relief in respect of expenditure on data and cloud computing
services,

10.b

about the administration and management of claims for relief,

10.c

about the circumstances in which an enterprise counts as a small or medium-
sized enterprise and in which accounts are to be treated as prepared on a
going concern basis, and

10.d

limiting relief for expenditure incurred on payments to expenditure incurred
on payments made before the making of a claim for the relief.

##### Treatment of profits from patents etc: small profits rate of corporation tax

11

11.1

In section 357A of CTA 2010 (election for special treatment of profits from
patents etc), in subsection (3)—

11.1.a

in the formula, in both places it occurs, for “MR” substitute  “AR” ;

11.1.b

for the definition of “MR” substitute—

                                                               “ AR ” means,
in relation to a company—
in a case where corporation tax is charged at the standard small profits rate
on the company’s taxable total profits of the accounting period mentioned in
subsection (1) which are not ring fence profits, that rate, or
in any other case, the main rate of corporation tax.

11.2

The amendments made by  subsection (1)  have effect in relation to accounting
periods beginning on or after 1 April 2023.

##### Energy (oil and gas) profits levy: de-carbonisation allowance

12

12.1

The Energy (Oil and Gas) Profits Levy Act 2022 is amended as follows.

12.2

In section 2 (additional expenditure treated as incurred for purposes of
section 1), for subsection (3) substitute—

12.2.3

For the purposes of section 1 the company is to be treated as if, in addition
to the investment expenditure (“the IE”) incurred by it in the accounting
period, it had incurred in that period—

12.2.3.a

expenditure of an amount equal to 80% of the amount of the IE, in a case where
the expenditure is capital expenditure on the de-carbonisation of its upstream
petroleum production, and

12.2.3.b

expenditure of an amount equal to 29% of the amount of the IE, in any other
case.

12.3

In that section, after subsection (4) insert—

12.3.4A

For the purposes of this section, where a company incurs expenditure part of
which is capital expenditure on the de-carbonisation of its upstream petroleum
production and part of which is not, the expenditure is to be apportioned on a
just and reasonable basis.

12.4

After that section insert—

########### Section 2: meaning of expenditure on “de-carbonisation of upstream petroleum production”

12.4.2A

12.4.2A.1

Expenditure incurred by a company is expenditure on the “ de-carbonisation of
its upstream petroleum production ” for the purposes of section 2 if—

12.4.2A.1.a

the expenditure is incurred in qualifying circumstances, and

12.4.2A.1.b

the main purpose, or one of the main purposes, in incurring the expenditure is
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the carrying on by the company of its
ring fence trade.

12.4.2A.2

For this purpose expenditure is incurred in qualifying circumstances if—

12.4.2A.2.a

it is incurred on the provision of an alternative energy asset which is to be
used for the purpose of generating or storing power for use by the company in
its upstream petroleum facilities,

12.4.2A.2.b

it is incurred on the modification of an asset so that it becomes an
alternative energy asset which is to be used for that purpose,

12.4.2A.2.c

it is incurred on the provision of an asset (such as a cable or substation)
where the asset is to be used to make a connection to the electric grid or to
an alternative energy asset so that (in either case) the company can use the
power generated in its upstream petroleum facilities,

12.4.2A.2.d

it is incurred for the purpose of reducing or eliminating flaring or venting,

12.4.2A.2.e

it is incurred for the purpose of capturing greenhouse gas emissions, or

12.4.2A.2.f

it is incurred for the purpose of monitoring or measuring greenhouse gas
emissions (including with a view to detecting leaks of greenhouse gas
emissions from the company’s upstream petroleum facilities).

12.4.2A.3

For the purposes of this section an asset is an alternative energy asset if
the asset generates or stores power (wholly or mainly) from sources of energy
other than fossil fuels.

12.4.2A.4

For the purposes of this section references to a company’s upstream petroleum
facilities are to any facility used by the company for the purposes of its oil
extraction activities.

12.4.2A.5

In this section—

            “ the electric grid ” means—
in Great Britain, anything which is a transmission system, or a distribution
system connected to a transmission system, for the purposes of Part 1 of the
Electricity Act 1989, or
in Northern Ireland, anything which is a transmission system, or a
distribution system connected to a transmission system, for the purposes of
Part 2 of the Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order 1992,
“ emissions ” has the same meaning as it has in the Climate Change Act 2008
(see section 97),
“ fossil fuel ” has the meaning given by section 32M of the Electricity Act
1989, and
“ greenhouse gas ” has the same meaning as it has in the Climate Change Act
2008 (see section 92).

12.5

In section 3 (section 2: meaning of “operating expenditure”), for subsection
(5) substitute—

12.5.5

In this section “ tariff receipts ” has the meaning given by section 291A of
CTA 2010.

12.6

In section 18(1) (interpretation)—

12.6.a

after the definition of “energy (oil and gas) profits levy” insert—

                                                               “ facility ”
means a platform, an oil well, a platform well, an oil well head or upstream
petroleum infrastructure,

, and

12.6.b

omit the “and” before the definition of “ring fence trade” and after that
definition insert—

                                                               “ upstream
petroleum infrastructure ” means any upstream petroleum pipeline, oil
processing facility or gas processing facility (as those expressions are
defined by section 90 of the Energy Act 2011 but as if that section also
applied (with the appropriate modifications) to Northern Ireland).

12.7

The amendments made by subsections (2) to (4) have effect in relation to
expenditure incurred on or after 1 January 2023 and the amendments made by
subsections (5) and (6) have effect in relation to expenditure incurred on or
after 26 May 2022.

##### Museums and galleries exhibition tax relief: extension of sunset date

13

In section 1218ZCG(1)(c) of CTA 2009 (date before which qualifying expenditure
must be incurred), for “2024” substitute  “2026” .

##### Extension of the temporary increase in theatre tax credit etc

14

14.1

In each of the following provisions of FA 2022—

14.1.a

section 17(2) (temporary increase in amount of theatre tax credit),

14.1.b

section 19(2) (corresponding provision for orchestra tax credit), and

14.1.c

section 21(2) (corresponding provision for museums and galleries exhibition
tax credit),

for “2023” substitute  “2025” .

14.2

In each of the following provisions of that Act (which provide for an increase
in the amount of those credits for a further year but at a lower rate than
that provided for by sections 17(2), 19(2) and 21(2))—

14.2.a

section 17(3),

14.2.b

section 19(3), and

14.2.c

section 21(3),

for “2023” substitute  “2025”  and for “2024” substitute  “2026” .

14.3

In each of the following provisions of that Act (which deal with straddling
periods for those credits)—

14.3.a

section 17(4),

14.3.b

section 19(4), and

14.3.c

section 21(4),

for “2023” substitute  “2025”  and for “2024” substitute  “2026” .

##### Seed enterprise investment scheme: increase of limits etc.

15

15.1

Part 5A of ITA 2007 (seed enterprise investment scheme) is amended in
accordance with subsections  (2)  to  (5) .

15.2

In section 257AB (form and amount of SEIS relief), in subsection (2)(b), for
“£100,000” substitute  “£200,000” .

15.3

In section 257DI (the gross assets requirement)—

15.3.a

in subsection (1), for “£200,000” substitute  “£350,000” ;

15.3.b

in subsection (2), for “£200,000” substitute  “£350,000” .

15.4

In section 257DL (the amount raised through the SEIS), in each of the
following provisions, for “£150,000” substitute  “£250,000” —

15.4.a

subsection (1);

15.4.b

subsection (4)(a);

15.4.c

subsection (4)(b);

15.4.d

in subsection (6), the definition of “A”.

15.5

In section 257HF (meaning of “ new qualifying trade ”)—

15.5.a

in subsection (1)(a), for “two” substitute  “three” ;

15.5.b

in subsection (2), for the definition of “two year pre-investment period”
substitute—

                                                               “ three year
pre-investment period ” means the period of 3 years ending immediately before
the day on which the relevant shares are issued.

15.6

In Schedule 5BB to TCGA 1992 (seed enterprise investment scheme: re-
investment), in paragraph 2—

15.6.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for “£100,000” substitute  “£200,000” ;

15.6.b

in sub-paragraph (2), in the formula, for “£100,000” substitute  “£200,000” .

15.7

The amendments made by this section have effect in relation to shares issued
on or after 6 April 2023.

#### Reliefs for employees

##### CSOP schemes: share value limit and share class

16

16.1

Schedule 4 to ITEPA 2003 (CSOP schemes) is amended as follows.

16.2

In paragraph 6 (limit on value of shares subject to options)—

16.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1), in the words after paragraph (b), for “£30,000”
substitute  “£60,000” ;

16.2.b

after sub-paragraph (4) insert—

16.2.b.5

The Treasury may by regulations amend sub-paragraph (1) by substituting a
different sum of money for the sum for the time being specified there.

16.3

In paragraph 15 (requirements relating to shares that may be subject to share
options: introduction), in sub-paragraph (1)—

16.3.a

after the entry for paragraph 17 insert  “, and” ;

16.3.b

omit the entry for paragraph 20 and the “, and” before it.

16.4

Omit paragraph 20 (requirements as to other shareholdings).

16.5

In paragraph 27 (requirement about share options granted in exchange), in sub-
paragraph (4)(a), for “20” substitute  “18” .

16.6

The amendments made by  subsection (2)  have effect for the purposes of
determining whether a share option may be granted to an individual on or after
6 April 2023 (“ the commencement day ”).

16.7

The amendments made by subsections  (3)  and  (4)  have effect in relation to—

16.7.a

share options granted on or after the commencement day, and

16.7.b

shares acquired by the exercise of share options on or after the commencement
day (regardless of when those share options were granted).

16.8

The amendment made by subsection  (5)  has effect in relation to share options
granted on or after the commencement day.

16.9

A CSOP scheme which was approved by, or notified to, His Majesty’s Revenue and
Customs before the commencement day has effect on and after the commencement
day with any modifications needed to reflect the amendments made by this
section.

16.10

In particular, such a CSOP scheme has effect from the commencement day with—

16.10.a

the substitution of  “£60,000”  for “£30,000” in any provision required by
paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to ITEPA 2003;

16.10.b

the omission of any provision that (before the amendments made by this
section) was required by paragraph 20 of that Schedule by virtue of paragraph
15(1) of that Schedule.

16.11

In this section, “ CSOP scheme ” and “ share option ” have the same meaning as
in the CSOP code (see paragraph 37 of Schedule 4 to ITEPA 2003).

##### Enterprise management incentives: restricted shares and declarations

17

17.1

Schedule 5 to ITEPA 2003 (enterprise management incentives) is amended as
follows.

17.2

In Part 5 (requirements relating to options), in paragraph 37 (terms of option
to be agreed in writing) omit sub-paragraphs (4) and (5).

17.3

In Part 7 (notification of option to HMRC), in paragraph 44 (notice of option
to be given to HMRC)—

17.3.a

in sub-paragraph (5)—

17.3.a.i

after paragraph (a) insert  “and” ;

17.3.a.ii

omit paragraph (c) and the “, and” immediately before it;

17.3.b

omit sub-paragraphs (5A) and (6).

17.4

In Part 8 (supplementary provisions) omit paragraph 57A (penalty for non-
compliance with paragraph 44(5A)).

17.5

The amendments made by this section have effect in relation to—

17.5.a

share options granted on or after 6 April 2023, or

17.5.b

share options granted before 6 April 2023 which are capable of being exercised
on or after that date (“relevant options”).

17.6

But if—

17.6.a

an employer company has granted relevant options to persons by reason of their
employment with the company, and

17.6.b

the effect of  subsection (5) (b)  would otherwise be that a relevant
requirement would not be met in relation to one or more share options granted
before 6 April 2023,

the employer company must, on or before the relevant day, make arrangements
for determining which of the relevant options, or the extent to which those
options, are to take the benefit of  subsection (5) (b)  without a relevant
requirement not being met in relation to any share options granted before 6
April 2023.

17.7

The arrangements must—

17.7.a

set out the criteria by reference to which the determination will be made, and

17.7.b

be made available to persons who may be affected by the determination.

17.8

If the employer company fails to make arrangements in accordance with
subsection (7)  in a case where it is required to do so by  subsection (6) ,
which relevant options, or the extent to which those options, take the benefit
of  subsection (5) (b)  is to be determined in the chronological order in
which those options were granted (and where two or more relevant options were
granted at the same time, the extent to which those options take the benefit
of  subsection (5) (b)  is, where necessary, to be apportioned between those
options).

17.9

In this section—

                                    “ relevant day ” means 6 July following
the end of the first tax year in which a relevant option granted by the
employer company is exercised;
“ relevant options ” has the meaning given in  subsection (5) (b) ;
“ relevant requirement ” means any of the requirements in paragraphs 5(1),
6(2) or (4) or 7(1) of Schedule 5 to ITEPA 2003;
“ share option ” and “ employer company ” have the same meaning as in the EMI
code (see paragraph 59 of Schedule 5 to ITEPA 2003).

#### Pensions

##### Lifetime allowance charge abolished

18

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### Certain lump sums to be taxed at marginal rate

19

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### Annual allowance increased

20

20.1

In Part 4 of FA 2004 (pension schemes etc), section 228 (annual allowance) is
amended as follows.

20.2

For subsection (1) substitute—

20.2.1

The annual allowance for the tax year 2023-24 and, subject to subsection (2),
each subsequent tax year is £60,000.

20.3

In subsection (2) for “2014-15” substitute  “2023-24” .

##### Money purchase annual allowance

21

21.1

Part 4 of FA 2004 (pension schemes etc) is amended as follows.

21.2

In the following provisions, for “£4,000” substitute  “£10,000” —

21.2.a

section 227ZA(1)(b);

21.2.b

section 227B(1)(b) and (2);

21.2.c

in section 227D(4), Steps 4 and 5.

21.3

In consequence of the amendments made by this section, in F(No.2)A 2017, omit
section 7.

21.4

The amendments made by this section have effect for the tax year 2023-24 and
subsequent tax years.

##### Annual allowance: tapering

22

22.1

In Part 4 of FA 2004 (pension schemes etc), section 228ZA (tapered reduction
of annual allowance) is amended as follows.

22.2

In subsection (1)—

22.2.a

for “£4,000” substitute  “£10,000” ;

22.2.b

for “£240,000” substitute  “£260,000” .

22.3

In subsection (3)(a) and (b), for “£240,000” substitute  “£260,000” .

22.4

The amendments made by this section have effect for the tax year 2023-24 and
subsequent tax years.

##### Modification of certain existing transitional protections

23

23.1

In Part 4 of FA 2004 (pension schemes etc), Schedule 36 (transitional
provisions) is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)  and  (3) .

23.2

In paragraph 12 (enhanced protection), in sub-paragraph (2), after “ceases to
apply if” insert  “the notice under sub-paragraph (1) is given on or after 15
March 2023 and” .

23.3

In paragraph 27 (enhanced protection: modifications of paragraph 2 of Schedule
29), in sub-paragraph (3), in the substituted sub-paragraph (5) of paragraph
2, for the words after  “the permitted maximum is”  substitute

the lower of—

23.3.a

the applicable amount calculated in accordance with paragraph 3, and

23.3.b

the amount that would have been the applicable amount calculated in accordance
with paragraph 3 if the lump sum had been paid on 5 April 2023.

23.4

In the Taxation of Pension Schemes (Transitional Provisions) Order 2006 ( S.I.
2006/572 ), in article 25C (payment of stand-alone lump sums: tax
consequences), for paragraph (3) substitute—

23.4.3A

Section 636A of ITEPA 2003 (exemptions and liabilities for certain lump sums
under registered pension schemes) is to be read as if, after subsection (1C),
there were inserted—

23.4.3A.1D

In the case of a stand-alone lump sum paid under a registered pension scheme—

23.4.3A.1D.a

no liability to income tax arises on so much of the sum as does not exceed the
5 April 2023 maximum, and

23.4.3A.1D.b

section 579A applies in relation to the remainder (if any) of the sum as that
section applies to any pension under a registered pension scheme.

23.4.3A.1E

In subsection (1D) and this subsection—

23.4.3A.1E.a

“ stand-alone lump sum ” has the meaning given by paragraph (3) of article 25
of the Taxation of Pension Schemes (Transitional Provisions) Order 2006 ( S.I.
2006/572 );

23.4.3A.1E.b

“ the 5 April 2023 maximum ” means the maximum amount that, on 5 April 2023,
could have been paid to the member under the registered pension scheme by way
of a stand-alone lump sum.

23.4.3A.1F

For the purposes of determining the maximum amount mentioned in paragraph  (b)
of  subsection (1E) , condition C in article 25A of the order mentioned in
paragraph  (a)  of that subsection (condition that member has reached normal
minimum pension age etc) is treated as met.

23.5

In FA 2011, in Schedule 18, in paragraph 14 (fixed protection 2012) in sub-
paragraph (4), after “ceases to apply if” insert  “the notice under sub-
paragraph (1) or (as the case may be) sub-paragraph (1A) is given on or after
15 March 2023 and,” .

23.6

In FA 2013, in Schedule 22, in paragraph 1 (fixed protection 2014), in sub-
paragraph (3), after “ceases to apply if” insert  “the notice under sub-
paragraph (1) is given on or after 15 March 2023 and,” .

23.7

In FA 2016, in Schedule 4, in Part 1 (fixed protection 2016), in paragraph 3,
after “There is a protection-cessation event if” insert  “the reference number
for the purposes of paragraph 1(2) was issued pursuant to an application made
on or after 15 March 2023 and” .

23.8

The amendments made by this section have effect for the tax year 2023-24 and
subsequent tax years.

##### Collective money purchase arrangements

24

24.1

Part 4 of FA 2004 (pension schemes) is amended in accordance with  subsections
(2)  to  (8) .

24.2

In section 152 (meaning of arrangement), in subsection (5A)—

24.2.a

the words after “means benefits that are” become paragraph (a);

24.2.b

at the end of that paragraph insert  “, or” ;

24.2.c

after that paragraph insert—

24.2.c.b

payments of CMP periodic income.

24.3

In section 169 (recognised transfers), after subsection (1E) insert—

24.3.1F

The Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs may by regulations
make provision as to the treatment for the purposes of any provision of this
Part of a CMP-derived drawdown pension.

24.3.1G

The provision that may be made under subsection (1F) includes provision for
treating sums or assets held for the purposes of a CMP-derived drawdown
pension as remaining, to such extent as is prescribed by the regulations and
for such of the purposes of this Part as are so prescribed, held for the
purposes of the collective money purchase arrangement under the pension scheme
from which they were transferred.

24.4

In section 279 (other definitions), after subsection (1E) insert—

24.4.1F

For the purposes of this Part a “ CMP-derived drawdown pension ” means a
drawdown pension (within the meaning given by paragraph 4 of Schedule 28)
where—

24.4.1F.a

the sums or assets constituting the fund from which the pension is payable
were transferred from another pension scheme, and

24.4.1F.b

before the transfer, those sums or assets were held for the purposes of paying
CMP periodic income.

24.4.1G

For the purposes of this Part “ CMP periodic income ” means income payable by
virtue of section 36(7)(b) or 87(7)(b) of the Pension Schemes Act 2021
(periodic income paid under collective money purchase arrangement while
pursuing continuity option 1).

24.5

In section 280 (abbreviations and general index), in subsection (2) at the
appropriate places insert—

                                                                         CMP-
derived drawdown pension section 279 (1F) ”

                                                                         CMP
periodic income section 279 (1G)

.

24.6

In Schedule 28 (registered pension schemes: authorised pensions -
supplementary), in Part 2 (pension death benefit rules), in paragraph 16A
(limit on dependant’s scheme pension), after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

24.6.3

Where, immediately before the member’s death, the member is actually or
prospectively entitled to CMP periodic income, any CMP periodic income that is
at any later time payable to a dependant of the member is to be ignored for
the purposes of paragraphs 16AA to 16B.

24.7

In Schedule 29 (authorised lump sums - supplementary), in Part 1 (lump sum
rule), in paragraph 1, for sub-paragraph (4A) substitute—

24.7.4A

A lump sum is an excluded lump sum if the pension in connection with which the
member becomes entitled to it is a CMP-derived drawdown pension.

24.8

In Schedule 32 (benefit crystallisation events - supplementary), for paragraph
2B substitute—

24.8.2B

24.8.2B.1

This paragraph applies for the purposes of benefit crystallisation event 1
where the sums or assets designated are, after the designation, held for the
purposes of a CMP-derived drawdown pension.

24.8.2B.2

The amount crystallised by the event is to be reduced by the amount (or an
appropriate proportion of the amount) crystallised on the individual becoming
entitled to a scheme pension under the collective money purchase arrangement
for the purposes of which the sums or assets were previously held.

24.9

In consequence of the amendments made by the preceding provisions of  this
section , the following provisions of Schedule 5 to FA 2021 are omitted—

24.9.a

paragraph 21(2)(b);

24.9.b

paragraph 22(2).

24.10

The Registered Pension Schemes (Transfer of Sums and Assets) Regulations 2006
( S.I. 2006/499 ) are amended in accordance with subsections  (11)  and  (12)
.

24.11

In regulation 3 (scheme pension payable by registered pension scheme -
recognised transfers), at the end insert—

24.11.3

Paragraphs (1) and (2) do not apply in relation to a transfer within section
169(1) or (1A) of sums or assets which, before the transfer, were held for the
purposes of paying CMP periodic income.

24.11.4

Such a transfer is not a recognised transfer unless the sums and assets
transferred are, after the transfer, applied towards the provision of a
drawdown pension (within the meaning given by paragraph 4 of Schedule 28).

24.12

In regulation 5 (term and reduction in rate of scheme pension), in paragraph
(1), in the opening words, for “3 or 4” substitute  “3(1) or (2) or regulation
4,” .

##### Relief relating to net pay arrangements

25

In FA 2004, in Part 4 (pension schemes etc), in Chapter 4 (certain tax reliefs
and exemptions), after section 193 (relief under net pay arrangements) insert—

######### Net pay arrangements: relief where no income tax liability

25.193A

25.193A.1

This section applies where—

25.193A.1.a

an individual is entitled to be given relief in accordance with section 193 in
respect of the payment of a contribution under a pension scheme,

25.193A.1.b

the individual is entitled to a personal allowance, in accordance with section
35(1) of ITA 2007 (personal allowance), for the tax year in which the payment
is made (“the relevant tax year”), and

25.193A.1.c

the amount of the individual’s total income for the relevant tax year does not
exceed the personal allowance specified in section 35(1) of ITA 2007 for the
relevant tax year.

25.193A.2

The Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs must make arrangements
to secure that, so far as reasonably practicable and subject to provision made
under subsection  (5) , they pay to the individual the appropriate amount in
relation to the contribution.

25.193A.3

The appropriate amount is—

25.193A.3.a

where the individual’s total income for the relevant tax year plus the
contribution does not exceed the personal allowance specified in section 35(1)
of ITA 2007 for the relevant tax year, an amount equal to income tax at the
relevant rate on the whole of the contribution, and

25.193A.3.b

where the individual’s total income for the relevant tax year plus the
contribution does exceed the personal allowance specified in section 35(1) of
ITA 2007 for the relevant tax year, an amount equal to income tax at the
relevant rate on an amount calculated in accordance with this formula—

  C - E       where—
C equals the whole of the contribution, and
E equals the amount by which the personal allowance is exceeded by the
individual’s total income for the relevant tax year plus the contribution.

25.193A.4

The arrangements must secure that an amount which the Commissioners are
required to pay in relation to a contribution is paid as soon as reasonably
practicable after the tax year in which the contribution is paid.

25.193A.5

The arrangements must include a procedure for the purposes of allowing an
individual to whom an amount would otherwise have to be paid under subsection
(2)  to decline to receive that amount.

25.193A.6

For the purposes of income tax, apart from determining whether this section
applies or calculating the appropriate amount in accordance with  subsection
(3) , an amount paid to an individual in accordance with the arrangements is
to be treated as if it were earnings within Chapter 1 of Part 3 of ITEPA 2003—

25.193A.6.a

from an employment in the relevant tax year, and

25.193A.6.b

in respect of duties performed in the United Kingdom.

25.193A.7

In  subsection (3) , “the relevant rate” is—

25.193A.7.a

where the individual is a Scottish taxpayer for the relevant tax year, the
Scottish basic rate for that year,

25.193A.7.b

where the individual is a Welsh taxpayer for the relevant tax year, the Welsh
basic rate for that year, and

25.193A.7.c

in all other cases, the basic rate for that tax year.

25.193A.8

In this section, “ total income ” has the meaning given by section 23 of ITA
2007 (the calculation of income tax liability).

25.193A.9

The Treasury may by regulations amend or otherwise modify this section.

25.193A.10

Regulations under  subsection (9)  may make different provision for different
purposes.

#### Social security

##### Payments under Jobs Growth Wales Plus

26

26.1

After section 776 of ITTOIA 2005 insert—

########### Payments under Jobs Growth Wales Plus

26.1.776A

26.1.776A.1

No liability to income tax arises in respect of a payment that is made—

26.1.776A.1.a

by way of training allowance under the Jobs Growth Wales Plus scheme, and

26.1.776A.1.b

to a person as a participant in that scheme.

26.1.776A.2

For this purpose the “ Jobs Growth Wales Plus scheme ” means the scheme under
section 14 of the Education Act 2002 known as Jobs Growth Wales Plus.

26.2

The amendment made by this section has effect in relation to payments made on
or after 1 April 2022.

##### Power to clarify tax treatment of devolved social security benefits

27

27.1

The Treasury may by regulations amend Chapter 3 of Part 10 of ITEPA 2003
(taxable UK social security benefits) so as to provide that a specified
devolved social security benefit is chargeable to income tax.

27.2

A “ specified devolved social security benefit ” means a social security
benefit which is—

27.2.a

payable under or by virtue of a post-commencement devolved enactment, and

27.2.b

specified in regulations under this section.

27.3

A “ post-commencement devolved enactment ” means an enactment which is—

27.3.a

contained in, or in an instrument made under—

27.3.a.i

an Act of the Scottish Parliament;

27.3.a.ii

an Act of Senedd Cymru;

27.3.a.iii

Northern Ireland legislation, and

27.3.b

passed or made on or after the day on which this Act is passed.

27.4

Regulations under this section may make—

27.4.a

different provision for different cases;

27.4.b

incidental, supplementary or consequential provision (which may include
provision amending any provision made by or under the Income Tax Acts).

27.5

In section 655 of ITEPA 2003 (structure of Part 10), in subsection (2), at the
end insert

;

      section 27  of F(No. 2)A 2023 (power to clarify tax treatment of
devolved social security benefits).

#### Foster carers etc

##### Qualifying care relief: increase in individual’s limit

28

28.1

Chapter 2 of Part 7 of ITTOIA 2005 (qualifying care relief) is amended as
follows.

28.2

In section 808 (the individual’s limit)—

28.2.a

in subsection (2), for “£10,000” substitute  “£18,140” , and

28.2.b

omit subsection (3) (which confers a power to amend that amount).

28.3

In section 811 (the amount per adult or child)—

28.3.a

in subsection (1A) (weekly amount for adult), for “£250” substitute  “£450” ,

28.3.b

in subsection (2)(a) (weekly amount for children under 11 years old), for
“£200” substitute  “£375” ,

28.3.c

in subsection (2)(b) (weekly amount for older children), for “£250” substitute
“£450” , and

28.3.d

omit subsection (3) (which confers a power to amend those amounts).

28.4

After section 828 insert—

########### Indexation of the fixed amount and the amount per adult and child

28.4.828A

28.4.828A.1

This section provides for increases in the amounts specified in—

28.4.828A.1.a

section 808(2) (the fixed amount), and

28.4.828A.1.b

section 811(1A) and (2)(a) and (b) (the amount per adult or child),

if the consumer prices index for the September before the start of a tax year
is higher than it was for the previous September.

28.4.828A.2

The amount specified in section 808(2) for the tax year is found as follows—

      Step 1 : multiply the amount for the previous tax year by the same
percentage as the percentage increase in the consumer prices index.
Step 2 : if the result of Step 1 is a multiple of £10, it is the increase for
the tax year.                                                   If the result
of Step 1 is not a multiple of £10, round it up to the nearest amount which is
a multiple of £10 and that amount is the increase for the tax year.
Step 3 : add the increase for the tax year to the amount for the previous tax
year and the result is the amount for the tax year.

28.4.828A.3

The amounts specified in section 811(1A) and (2)(a) and (b) for the tax year
are found as follows—

      Step 1 : multiply the amount for the previous tax year by the same
percentage as the percentage increase in the consumer prices index.
Step 2 : if the result of Step 1 is a multiple of £5, it is the increase for
the tax year.                                                   If the result
of Step 1 is not a multiple of £5, round it up to the nearest amount which is
a multiple of £5 and that amount is the increase for the tax year.
Step 3 : add the increase for the tax year to the amount for the previous tax
year and the result is the amount for the tax year.

28.4.828A.4

Before the start of the tax year the Treasury must make an order replacing the
amounts specified in the provisions listed in subsection (1) with the amounts
which, as a result of this section, are the amounts for the tax year.

28.4.828A.5

In this section “ consumer prices index ” means the all items consumer prices
index published by the Statistics Board.

28.5

In section 873(3) (orders made by Treasury etc not subject to negative
resolution procedure), after paragraph (c) (but before the “or” at the end)
insert—

28.5.ca

section 828A (qualifying care relief: indexation of amounts),

.

28.6

The amendments made by this section have effect for the tax year 2023-24 and
subsequent tax years.

#### Estates in administration and trusts

##### Estates in administration and trusts

29

Schedule 2  contains amendments relating to estates in administration and
trusts.

#### Provisions relating to insurance

##### Transfer of basic life assurance and general annuity business

30

30.1

In Part 2 of FA 2012 (insurance companies carrying on long-term business),
after section 130 insert—

########### Re-insurance in the course of transfer of BLAGAB

30.1.130A

30.1.130A.1

This section applies to a re-insurer in relation to the re-insurance of the
whole, or part of, a cedant’s basic life assurance and general annuity
business, if—

30.1.130A.1.a

the business is not excluded business for the purposes of section 57(2)(e),
and

30.1.130A.1.b

it is reasonable to suppose that the arrangements for the re-insurance are
made, or are operated, in connection with an insurance business transfer
scheme under which the business will be transferred to the re-insurer or a
person connected with the re-insurer.

30.1.130A.2

Where the arrangements are operated, but were not made, in connection with the
insurance business transfer scheme, this section is to apply to the re-insurer
from the later of—

30.1.130A.2.a

the beginning of the accounting period in which it is reasonable to suppose
that the arrangements were first operated in connection with the transfer, and

30.1.130A.2.b

15 December 2022.

30.1.130A.3

Where this section applies in relation to re-insurance, that re-insurance (so
far as it is of basic life assurance and general annuity business) is to be
treated as excluded business for the purposes of section 57(2)(e) (and that
business is referred to in this section as “ the re-insured business ”).

30.1.130A.4

Accordingly—

30.1.130A.4.a

the re-insured business is, or forms part of, the separate basic life
assurance and general annuity business of the re-insurer (see section 66(2)),
and

30.1.130A.4.b

accounting profit or loss and the tax adjustments (within the meaning of
section 114(4)) referable to the re-insured business are, for the purposes of
provision made by or under this Part or Schedule 5 to FA 2022, to be allocated
to the basic life assurance and general annuity business.

30.1.130A.5

But, subject to  subsection (6) , no amount referable to the re-insured
business is to be included in the determination of the I-E profit of the re-
insurer for an accounting period (and accordingly, subject to that subsection,
the I-E profit referable to that business for the accounting period will be
nil).

30.1.130A.6

Any BLAGAB trade loss relieved for an accounting period (see section 78(5))
that is referable to the re-insured business is to be included (as a deduction
in Step 4 in section 76) in determining the adjusted BLAGAB management
expenses of the re-insurer for the accounting period (which, accordingly, may
result in the I-E profit referable to that business for the accounting period
being greater than nil).

30.1.130A.7

Nothing in this section is to be taken to affect the liability of the cedant
to corporation tax.

30.1.130A.8

For the purposes of this section “ arrangements ” includes any agreement,
scheme, transaction or understanding (whether or not legally enforceable).

30.1.130A.9

Section 1122 of CTA 2010 (connected persons) has effect for the purposes of
this section.

30.2

The amendment made by  this section  is treated as having come into force on
15 December 2022 and applies to the re-insurance of basic life assurance and
general annuity business whenever the arrangements for that re-insurance were
made.

30.3

Where, on or after 15 December 2022, a re-insurer adopts IFRS 17 in relation
to one or more accounting periods that commence before that date, the
amendment made by  this section  has effect, in relation to that re-insurer,
for those accounting periods.

30.4

In  subsection (3)  “ IFRS 17 ” means International Financial Reporting
Standard 17 (insurance contracts) issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board.

##### Certain re-insurance sums not to count as deemed I-E receipts

31

31.1

Section 92 of FA 2012 (certain BLAGAB trading receipts to count as deemed I-E
receipts) is amended as follows.

31.2

In subsection (5)—

31.2.a

after paragraph (a) insert—

31.2.a.aa

sums paid to the company under re-insurance arrangements under which the re-
insurer assumes substantially all of the insurance risks relating to the
business that is re-insured,

, and

31.2.b

in paragraph (b), after “sums” insert  “, other than sums falling within
paragraph (aa) ,” .

31.3

In subsection (6), in the words before paragraph (a), after “contract” insert
“, other than a sum falling within  paragraph (aa) ,” .

31.4

The amendments made by this section have effect for accounting periods ending
on or after 15 December 2022.

##### Insurers in difficulties: write-down orders for corporation tax purposes

32

32.1

In Part 3 of CTA 2009 (trading income), after section 130 insert—

########### Insurers in financial difficulties: write-down orders

32.1.130A

32.1.130A.1

A receipt or expense that is attributable to the operation of a write-down
order, or to a write-down order ceasing to have effect, is not brought into
account in calculating the profits of a trade.

32.1.130A.2

In this section “ write-down order ” means an order under section 377A of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (court order writing down liabilities
of insurer).

32.2

Part 5 of CTA 2009 (loan relationships) is amended as follows.

32.3

After section 323A insert—

########### Insurers in financial difficulties: write-down orders

32.3.323B

32.3.323B.1

Subsection  (2)  applies if a debtor relationship of a company is modified by
a write-down order.

32.3.323B.2

The company is not required to bring into account for the purposes of this
Part a credit in respect of any change in the carrying value of the liability
representing the modified debtor relationship.

32.3.323B.3

If as a result of subsection  (2)  no credit was brought into account in
respect of a change in the carrying value of a liability representing a debtor
relationship, the company may not bring into account a debit for the purposes
of this Part in respect of a change in the carrying value of that liability,
to the extent that the change represents a reversal of the change in carrying
value to which subsection  (2)  applied.

32.3.323B.4

In this section “ write-down order ” means an order under section 377A of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (court order writing down liabilities
of insurer).

32.4

In section 465B (“tax-adjusted carrying value”), in subsection (9), after
paragraph (d) insert—

32.4.da

section  323B  (insurers in financial difficulties: write-down orders),

.

##### Insurers in difficulties: write-down orders in case of pension schemes

33

33.1

In Part 4 of FA 2004 (pension schemes), Schedule 28 (registered pension
schemes: authorised pensions - supplementary) is amended as follows.

33.2

In paragraph 3 (definition of “lifetime annuity”), in sub-paragraph (2A)—

33.2.a

the words after “by reason of the operation of” become paragraph (a);

33.2.b

at the end of that paragraph insert  “, or” ;

33.2.c

after that paragraph insert—

33.2.c.b

an order under section 377A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
(court order writing down liabilities of insurer).

33.3

In paragraph 17 (definition of “dependants’ annuity”), in sub-paragraph (2)—

33.3.a

the words after “by reason of the operation of” become paragraph (a);

33.3.b

at the end of that paragraph insert  “, or” ;

33.3.c

after that paragraph insert—

33.3.c.b

an order under section 377A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
(court order writing down liabilities of insurer).

#### Miscellaneous corporation tax matters

##### Corporate interest restriction

34

Schedule 3  makes provision about corporate interest restriction and the tax
treatment of financing costs and income.

##### Investment vehicles

35

Schedule 4  makes amendments to—

35.a

Schedule 5AAA to TCGA 1992 (UK property rich collective investment vehicles
etc),

35.b

Part 12 of CTA 2010 (Real Estate Investment Trusts) and the Real Estate
Investment Trusts (Assessment and Recovery of Tax) Regulations 2006 ( S.I.
2006/2867 ), and

35.c

Schedule 2 to FA 2022 (qualifying asset holding companies).

#### International matters

##### Share exchanges involving non-UK incorporated close companies

36

36.1

TCGA 1992 is amended in accordance with  subsections (2)  and  (3) .

36.2

After section 138 (exchange of securities and schemes of reconstruction:
procedure for clearance in advance) insert—

########### Share exchanges involving non-UK incorporated close companies

36.2.138ZA

36.2.138ZA.1

Section  138ZB  applies where—

36.2.138ZA.1.a

section 135 or 136 applies to an issue by a company (“ company B ”) of shares
in or debentures of that company (“the exchanged shares or debentures”) in
exchange for or in respect of shares in or debentures of another company (“
company A ”),

36.2.138ZA.1.b

immediately before the issue is made, company A is a close company which is
incorporated in the United Kingdom (whether or not it is resident in the
United Kingdom),

36.2.138ZA.1.c

immediately after the issue is made, company B is a close company which is not
incorporated in the United Kingdom (whether or not it is resident in the
United Kingdom), and

36.2.138ZA.1.d

the person to whom the exchanged shares or debentures are issued (“ P ”) is an
individual who meets the conditions in  subsection (2) .

36.2.138ZA.2

Those conditions are that—

36.2.138ZA.2.a

immediately before the issue is made, P—

36.2.138ZA.2.a.i

has a material interest in company A, and

36.2.138ZA.2.a.ii

is a participator in company A, and

36.2.138ZA.2.b

immediately after the issue is made, P—

36.2.138ZA.2.b.i

has a material interest in company B, and

36.2.138ZA.2.b.ii

is a participator in company B.

36.2.138ZA.3

A person has a material interest in a company for the purposes of this section
if condition A or B is met.

36.2.138ZA.4

Condition A is that the person, an associate of the person, or the person or
an associate of the person together with one or more associates is—

36.2.138ZA.4.a

the beneficial owner of, or

36.2.138ZA.4.b

directly or indirectly able to control,

more than 5% of the ordinary share capital of the company.

36.2.138ZA.5

Condition B is that the person, an associate of the person, or the person or
an associate of the person together with one or more associates possesses or
is entitled to acquire such rights as would—

36.2.138ZA.5.a

in the event of the winding up of the company, or

36.2.138ZA.5.b

in any other circumstances,

give an entitlement to receive more than 5% of the assets which would then be
available for distribution among the participators.

36.2.138ZA.6

Chapter 2 of Part 10 of CTA 2010 (meaning of “close company” and related
terms) applies for the purposes of this section but with the omission of
section 442(a) (exclusion of non-UK resident companies).

36.2.138ZA.7

In relation to a company that has no share capital, this section applies as
if—

36.2.138ZA.7.a

references to shares in, or debentures of, the company included any interests
of the company possessed by members of the company, and

36.2.138ZA.7.b

the reference in  subsection (4)  to the ordinary share capital of the company
were to all such interests.

36.2.138ZA.8

In this section “ ordinary share capital ” has the meaning it has in the
Corporation Tax Acts (see section 1119 of CTA 2010).

########### Treatment of securities connected with such exchanges

36.2.138ZB

36.2.138ZB.1

Where this section applies (see  section 138ZA ), a security falling within
subsection (2)  is to be treated for the purposes of this Act as situated in
the United Kingdom (whether or not it would otherwise be so treated) if—

36.2.138ZB.1.a

it is held by P, other than as a result of a disposal of the security by P’s
spouse or civil partner (“ S ”) to P to which section 58 (no loss or gain on
disposals between spouses or civil partners) did not apply, or

36.2.138ZB.1.b

is held by S, other than as a result of a disposal of the security by P to S
to which that section did not apply.

36.2.138ZB.2

Those securities are as follows—

36.2.138ZB.2.a

the exchanged shares or debentures;

36.2.138ZB.2.b

a security of company B acquired by P on or after the day on which the
exchanged shares or debentures are issued;

36.2.138ZB.2.c

where—

36.2.138ZB.2.c.i

there is a repo (within the meaning of section 263A) in respect of a security,
and

36.2.138ZB.2.c.ii

that security falls within any of the paragraphs of this subsection (including
this paragraph),

any similar security (see section 263AA(5) and (6)) that P, or a person
connected with P, buys back under the repo;

36.2.138ZB.2.d

where—

36.2.138ZB.2.d.i

P transfers a security to another person under a stock lending arrangement
(within the meaning of section 263B), and

36.2.138ZB.2.d.ii

that security falls within any of the paragraphs of this subsection (including
this paragraph),

any security of a similar description (see section 263B(6)) transferred back
to P under the arrangement;

36.2.138ZB.2.e

a security of a company issued to P where—

36.2.138ZB.2.e.i

the security is issued in exchange for, or in respect of, another security,

36.2.138ZB.2.e.ii

section 135 or 136 applies to that issue,

36.2.138ZB.2.e.iii

the other security falls within any of the paragraphs of this subsection
(including this paragraph), and

36.2.138ZB.2.e.iv

P has a material interest in the company (within the meaning of  section 138ZA
(3) );

36.2.138ZB.2.f

where a security of a company, other than company B, falls within paragraph
(e) , a security of that company acquired by P on or after the first day on
which a security of that company fell within that paragraph.

36.2.138ZB.3

For the purposes of paragraphs  (b) ,  (f)  and  (e)  of  subsection (2) , it
does not matter whether or not—

36.2.138ZB.3.a

consideration was given for the security acquired by P, or

36.2.138ZB.3.b

the security acquired by P is of a different class from the exchanged shares
or debentures.

36.2.138ZB.4

If S acquires a security falling within  subsection (2)  as a result of a
disposal by P to which section 58 applies, subsections  (2)  and  (3)  have
effect, from the time of its acquisition by S (whether or not S continues to
hold it), as if every reference to “P” were to “P or S”.

36.2.138ZB.5

In this section—

            “ company B ”, “ P ”, and “ the exchanged shares or debentures ”
are to be construed in accordance with section  138ZA ;
“ security ” means—
shares in, or debentures of, a company, or
interests of a company that has no share capital that are possessed by members
of the company.

########### Election to disapply section 135 or 136

36.2.138ZC

36.2.138ZC.1

This section applies where section 138ZB would, but for an election under this
section, apply in relation to the issue by a company of shares in or
debentures of that company in exchange for, or in respect of, shares in or
debentures of another company.

36.2.138ZC.2

The person to whom the shares or debentures are issued may elect for section
135 or 136 not to apply to the issue, and accordingly—

36.2.138ZC.2.a

the exchange or scheme of reconstruction in question will not be treated as a
reorganisation within the meaning of section 126, and

36.2.138ZC.2.b

section  138ZB  will not apply in relation to the issue.

36.2.138ZC.3

An election under this section must be made on or before the first anniversary
of the 31 January following the tax year in which the shares or debentures are
issued.

36.3

In section 288 (interpretation), in the definition of “close company”, at the
end insert  “(subject to  section 138ZA (6) )” .

36.4

The amendments made by  subsections (2)  and  (3)  have effect in relation to
an issue of shares or debentures made on or after 17 November 2022.

36.5

In section 830 of ITTOIA 2005 (meaning of “ relevant foreign income ”), after
subsection (3) insert—

36.5.3A

“ Relevant foreign income ” does not include income paid in respect of a
security, within the meaning of section  138ZB  of TCGA 1992, if—

36.5.3A.a

the security is treated, for the purposes of that Act, as situated in the
United Kingdom as a result of section  138ZB  of that Act, and

36.5.3A.b

that section applies in respect of the security as a result of an issue of
shares in or debentures of a company in exchange for, or in respect of, shares
in or debentures of another company that is incorporated, and is resident, in
the United Kingdom.

36.6

The amendment made by  subsection (5)  is treated as having come into force on
17 November 2022.

##### Records relating to transfer pricing

37

Schedule 5  makes provision about the keeping of records for the purposes of
Part 4 of TIOPA 2010.

##### Double taxation relief: foreign nominal rates

38

38.1

No extended time limit claim may be made on or after 20 July 2022 for a credit
calculated by reference to a foreign nominal rate of tax unless  subsection
(2)  or  (3)  applies in relation to the claim.

38.2

This subsection  applies in relation to an extended time limit claim if the
adjustment in the amount of tax payable that gives rise to the claim—

38.2.a

is not calculated by reference to a foreign nominal rate of tax, and

38.2.b

occurred on or after 21 July 2016 but before 20 July 2022.

38.3

This subsection  applies in relation to an extended time limit claim if the
claim relates to an accounting period that ended before 20 July 2022 (“ the
relevant accounting period ”) and as at that date—

38.3.a

an appeal under section 31 of TMA 1970 against an assessment to tax in
relation to the relevant accounting period has been brought but has not been
finally determined or withdrawn,

38.3.b

an enquiry under paragraph 5 of Schedule 1A to TMA 1970 into a claim in
relation to the relevant accounting period could be opened or is in progress,

38.3.c

an appeal against a conclusion stated in respect of such a claim, or an
amendment of such a claim, as a result of an enquiry under that paragraph—

38.3.c.i

could be brought, or

38.3.c.ii

has been brought but has not been finally determined or withdrawn,

38.3.d

an enquiry under Part 4 of Schedule 18 to FA 1998 into the company tax return
for the relevant accounting period could be opened or is in progress, or

38.3.e

an appeal against an amendment of that return as a result of an enquiry under
that Part—

38.3.e.i

could be brought, or

38.3.e.ii

has been brought but has not been finally determined or withdrawn.

38.4

An “extended time limit claim” is a claim under—

38.4.a

section 79 of TIOPA 2010 (extended time limits for certain claims), or

38.4.b

section 806(2) of ICTA (extended time limits for certain claims in relation to
accounting periods to which section 79 of TIOPA 2010 does not apply).

#### Chargeable gains

##### Payments to farmers under the lump sum exit scheme etc

39

39.1

An amount paid to a person (“ P ”) under the lump sum exit scheme is—

39.1.a

in a case where P satisfied the eligibility conditions when the payment was
made, to be treated as an amount of capital nature that is treated as a
chargeable gain accruing to P on the disposal of an asset for the purposes of
TCGA 1992;

39.1.b

in a case where P did not satisfy the eligibility conditions when the payment
was made, to be treated as an amount of a revenue nature.

39.2

Where—

39.2.a

a person (“ P ”) makes an application for a lump sum under the lump sum exit
scheme,

39.2.b

P satisfies the eligibility conditions at any time during the interim period,
and

39.2.c

during the interim period, an amount is paid to P under the basic payment
scheme,

the amount is to be treated as an amount of capital nature that is treated as
a chargeable gain accruing to P on the disposal of an asset for the purposes
of TCGA 1992.

39.3

Where—

39.3.a

a person (“ P ”) makes an application for a lump sum under the lump sum exit
scheme,

39.3.b

P does not satisfy the eligibility conditions at any time during the interim
period, and

39.3.c

during the interim period, an amount is paid to P under the basic payment
scheme,

the amount is to be treated as an amount of a revenue nature.

39.4

For the purposes of this section—

                                    the “ lump sum exit scheme ” means the
Agriculture (Lump Sum Payment) (England) Regulations 2022 ( S.I. 2022/390 );
the “ basic payment scheme ” means  Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013  of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 establishing rules
for direct payments to farmers under support schemes within the framework of
the common agricultural policy and repealing  Council Regulation (EC) No
637/2008  and  Council Regulation (EC) No 73/2009 ;
“ eligibility conditions ” means the conditions in regulation 5 of the lump
sum exit scheme;
the “ interim period ”, in relation to P, means the period—
beginning with the day on which the lump sum exit scheme came into force (see
regulation 1(1) of that scheme), and
ending with the scheme end date;
the “ scheme end date ” has the same meaning as in the lump sum exit scheme
(see regulation 2(1) of that scheme).

39.5

This section has effect in relation to amounts whether paid before or after
the coming into force of this Act.

##### Contracts completed after ordinary notification period

40

40.1

In TCGA 1992, after section 28 (time of disposal and acquisition where asset
disposed of under contract) insert—

########### Contracts completed after ordinary notification period

40.1.28A

40.1.28A.1

This section applies in relation to chargeable gains or allowable losses
accruing on the disposal and acquisition of an asset under a contract where
the asset is conveyed or transferred after the ordinary notification period
relating to the chargeable period in which the asset was disposed of and
acquired in accordance with section 28.

40.1.28A.2

The following references are to be read as references to the chargeable period
in which the conveyance or transfer takes place—

40.1.28A.2.a

the references in section 7(1C) of the Management Act (income tax and capital
gains tax: period for giving notice of chargeability) to the year of
assessment;

40.1.28A.2.b

the references in sections 34(1) and 36(1) and (1A) of the Management Act
(income tax and capital gains tax: time limits for assessments) to the year of
assessment to which an assessment relates;

40.1.28A.2.c

the reference in section 43(1) of the Management Act (income tax and capital
gains tax: time limit for making claims) to the year of assessment to which a
claim relates;

40.1.28A.2.d

the reference in paragraph 2(2) of Schedule 18 to the Finance Act 1998
(corporation tax: period for giving notice of chargeability) to the accounting
period;

40.1.28A.2.e

the references in paragraph 46(1), (2) and (2A) of Schedule 18 to the Finance
Act 1998 (corporation tax: time limits for assessments) to the accounting
period to which an assessment relates;

40.1.28A.2.f

the reference in paragraph 55 of Schedule 18 to the Finance Act 1998 (general
time limit for making claims) to the accounting period to which a claim for
relief relates.

40.1.28A.3

For the purposes of  subsection (1) , the “ ordinary notification period ”
relating to a chargeable period is—

40.1.28A.3.a

in the case of capital gains tax, the period of 6 months from the end of the
chargeable period, and

40.1.28A.3.b

in the case of corporation tax, the period of 12 months from the end of the
chargeable period.

40.1.28A.4

Where a claim, election, application or notice is made, given, revoked or
varied by virtue of this section, all such adjustments shall be made, whether
by way of discharge or repayment of tax or the making of amendments,
assessments or otherwise, as are required to take account of the effect of the
taking of that action on any person’s liability to tax for any chargeable
period.

40.2

The amendment made by  subsection (1)  has effect—

40.2.a

for the purposes of corporation tax, in relation to any disposal and
acquisition of an asset under a contract that is entered into on or after 1
April 2023, and

40.2.b

for all other purposes, in relation to any disposal and acquisition of an
asset under a contract that is entered into on or after 6 April 2023.

##### Separated spouses and civil partners

41

41.1

TCGA 1992 is amended in accordance with  subsections (2)  to  (5) .

41.2

In Part 3 (individuals, partnerships, trusts and collective investment
schemes), in Chapter 1 (miscellaneous provisions), in section 58 (spouses and
civil partnerships), for subsection (1) substitute—

41.2.1A

If an individual (“ A ”) disposes of an asset to another individual (“ B ”) in
circumstances where any of subsections (1B) to (1D) applies, A and B are to be
treated as if B acquired the asset from A for a consideration of such amount
as would secure that on the disposal neither a gain nor a loss would accrue to
A.

41.2.1B

This subsection applies where the disposal is made while A and B—

41.2.1B.a

are married to, or are civil partners of, each other, and

41.2.1B.b

are living together.

41.2.1C

This subsection applies where the disposal is made—

41.2.1C.a

while A and B are married to, or are civil partners of, each other,

41.2.1C.b

at a time when A and B have ceased to live together, and

41.2.1C.c

on or before the earlier of—

41.2.1C.c.i

the last day of the third tax year after the tax year in which A and B ceased
to live together, or

41.2.1C.c.ii

the day on which a court grants an order or decree for A and B’s divorce, the
annulment of their marriage, the dissolution or annulment of their civil
partnership, their judicial separation or, as the case may be, their
separation in accordance with a separation order.

41.2.1D

This subsection applies where—

41.2.1D.a

A and B have ceased to be, or are in the process of ceasing to be, married to,
or civil partners of, each other, and

41.2.1D.b

the disposal of the asset is in accordance with an agreement or order within
subsection (2)(a) or (b) of section 225B (disposals in connection with divorce
etc), but as if, in subsection (2)(a), after “partner” there were inserted  “,
or former spouse or civil partner,” .

41.3

In section 225B (disposals in connection with divorce etc)—

41.3.a

in subsection (1)(b), after “to” insert  “someone other than” ;

41.3.b

in subsection (3), after “disposal to” insert  “someone other than” .

41.4

After section 225B insert—

########### Deferred payments on disposals in connection with divorce etc

41.4.225BA

41.4.225BA.1

This section applies where—

41.4.225BA.1.a

an individual (“ A ”) ceases to live with A’s spouse or civil partner (“ B ”)
in a dwelling-house or part of a dwelling-house,

41.4.225BA.1.b

immediately before A ceases to live with B, the dwelling-house or part is A’s
only or main residence,

41.4.225BA.1.c

A disposes of, or of an interest in, that dwelling-house or part to B (“the
initial disposal”), and

41.4.225BA.1.d

the initial disposal is in accordance with a deferred sale agreement or order.

41.4.225BA.2

If—

41.4.225BA.2.a

in accordance with the deferred sale agreement or order A receives a sum in
respect of a share of any profit made by B upon B’s disposal of, or of an
interest in, the dwelling-house or part, and

41.4.225BA.2.b

the receipt of that sum would be treated (apart from this section) as a
disposal falling with section 22 (disposal where capital sums derived from
assets),

that receipt is to be treated for the purposes of this Act as a gain
attributable to the initial disposal but accruing to A at the time the sum is
received.

41.4.225BA.3

In this section, a “deferred sale agreement or order” is an agreement or order
of a court which—

41.4.225BA.3.a

is within paragraph (a) or (b), as the case may be, of section 225B(2)
(agreements and orders of the court in relation to divorce etc), and

41.4.225BA.3.b

includes a term entitling A to receive a share of any profit made by B as
mentioned in subsection (2)(a).

41.5

In Part 8 (supplemental), in section 288 (interpretation), in subsection (3),
after “partner” insert  “(however expressed)” .

41.6

The amendments made by  this section  apply in relation to disposals made on
or after 6 April 2023.

##### Carried interest: election to pay tax as scheme profits arise

42

42.1

TCGA 1992 is amended as follows.

42.2

After section 103KF insert—

########### Election for carried interest gains to be chargeable as scheme profits arise

42.2.103KFA

42.2.103KFA.1

An individual (“ A ”) may make an election under this section in respect of an
investment scheme (“ the relevant scheme ”) if—

42.2.103KFA.1.a

section 103KA applies in relation to A and the relevant scheme, or

42.2.103KFA.1.b

it is reasonable to expect that it will apply in relation to A and the
relevant scheme.

42.2.103KFA.2

Subsection  (3)  applies for a tax year (“the relevant tax year”) where an
election made under this section has effect for that tax year.

42.2.103KFA.3

A chargeable gain is deemed to arise to A in the relevant tax year and is to
be treated as accruing to A immediately before the end of the relevant tax
year.

42.2.103KFA.4

The amount of the gain is the amount given by reducing—

42.2.103KFA.4.a

the amount of carried interest that would arise to A in the relevant tax year
in the circumstances mentioned in subsection  (5) , by

42.2.103KFA.4.b

the sum of chargeable gains deemed to arise to A under this section in respect
of the relevant scheme in previous tax years.

42.2.103KFA.5

Those circumstances are that—

42.2.103KFA.5.a

all of the investments held by the relevant scheme in the relevant tax year,
and previously held by the scheme, whose disposal would be relevant to A’s
entitlement to carried interest, were disposed of in the relevant tax year,

42.2.103KFA.5.b

the amount realised on the disposal of each investment that was not actually
disposed of in, or before, the relevant tax year were the amount of the costs
to the relevant scheme in acquiring that investment,

42.2.103KFA.5.c

all income that was received by the scheme (whether before or during the
relevant tax year) and that would be relevant to A’s entitlement to carried
interest, were received in the relevant tax year, and

42.2.103KFA.5.d

all profits realised by the scheme as a result of those disposals and the
receipt of that income were distributed to its investors in the relevant tax
year.

42.2.103KFA.6

Where—

42.2.103KFA.6.a

distributions were made by the scheme to external investors before the
relevant tax year, and

42.2.103KFA.6.b

the timing of those distributions affects the amount of carried interest that
actually arises to A,

the amount of carried interest to be presumed to arise in the circumstances
mentioned in  subsection (5)  is to reflect the fact those distributions were
made before the relevant tax year.

42.2.103KFA.7

But if reflecting that fact would lead to a presumption that an amount of
carried interest had arisen before the relevant tax year, any such amount is
to be presumed to arise in the relevant tax year.

42.2.103KFA.8

A chargeable gain treated as accruing to an individual under subsection  (3)
is a chargeable gain accruing on the disposal of an asset situated outside the
United Kingdom only to the extent that the individual performs investment
management services in respect of the relevant scheme outside the United
Kingdom.

42.2.103KFA.9

An election under this section—

42.2.103KFA.9.a

must be made by notice given to an officer of Revenue and Customs, and

42.2.103KFA.9.b

may not be revoked.

42.2.103KFA.10

A notice making an election—

42.2.103KFA.10.a

must state the first tax year for which it is to have effect, and

42.2.103KFA.10.b

may not be given after 31 January following the end of that tax year.

########### Election in relation to scheme to apply to associated schemes

42.2.103KFB

42.2.103KFB.1

Where an election has been made under section  103KFA  in relation to an
investment scheme (“ S ”) that is associated with another investment scheme,
the election applies in respect of the other scheme (whether or not the
conditions for an election to be made in respect of the other scheme were met
at that time).

42.2.103KFB.2

“ Associated ”, in relation to two or more investments schemes, is to be
construed in accordance with section 809FZZ of ITA 2007.

########### Interaction with other charges

42.2.103KFC

42.2.103KFC.1

The accrual of a chargeable gain treated as accruing to an individual under
section  103KFA (3)  does not prevent the individual or any other person being
charged to tax (whether income tax, capital gains tax or any other tax, and
including as a result of section 103KA) in relation to carried interest that
arises to the individual under arrangements with the relevant scheme.

42.2.103KFC.2

But  subsection (3)  applies where an individual—

42.2.103KFC.2.a

has made an election under section  103KFA ,

42.2.103KFC.2.b

has accrued a chargeable gain treated as accruing under section  103KFA (3) ,

42.2.103KFC.2.c

has paid (and has not been repaid) an amount of capital gains tax that is
attributable to that chargeable gain, and

42.2.103KFC.2.d

is charged to tax (whether income tax, capital gains tax or another tax) in
relation to carried interest that—

42.2.103KFC.2.d.i

arises to the individual under arrangements with the relevant scheme, and

42.2.103KFC.2.d.ii

arises in or after the tax year in which a gain first accrued under that
section.

42.2.103KFC.3

The individual may make a claim for one or more consequential adjustments to
be made reducing the tax mentioned in subsection  (2) (d) .

42.2.103KFC.4

On a claim under subsection  (3)  an officer of Revenue and Customs must make
such of the consequential adjustments claimed (if any) as are just and
reasonable.

42.2.103KFC.5

The value of any consequential adjustments made must not exceed the lesser of—

42.2.103KFC.5.a

the amount of capital gains tax paid as mentioned in subsection  (2) (c) , and

42.2.103KFC.5.b

the tax charged as mentioned in subsection  (2) (d) .

42.2.103KFC.6

Consequential adjustments may be made—

42.2.103KFC.6.a

in respect of any period, and

42.2.103KFC.6.b

by way of an assessment, the modification of an assessment, the amendment of a
claim, or otherwise.

42.2.103KFC.7

No claim may be made under section 103KE (carried interest: avoidance of
double taxation) in respect of tax charged as a result of the accrual of a
chargeable gain treated as accruing to an individual under section  103KFA (3)
.

########### Deemed accrual of loss where carried interest never arises

42.2.103KFD

42.2.103KFD.1

Subsection  (3)  applies where—

42.2.103KFD.1.a

an individual has made an election under section  103KFA ,

42.2.103KFD.1.b

the individual has accrued a chargeable gain treated as accruing under section
103KFA (3) , and

42.2.103KFD.1.c

the conditions in subsection  (2)  are met.

42.2.103KFD.2

Those conditions are that—

42.2.103KFD.2.a

all, or substantially all, of the investments of the relevant scheme have been
disposed of,

42.2.103KFD.2.b

the amount of carried interest that has arisen to the individual in respect of
the relevant scheme since the beginning of the first tax year in which a gain
is treated as accruing under section  103KFA (3)  is less than the sum of
chargeable gains treated as accruing to the individual under that section, and

42.2.103KFD.2.c

no further amount of carried interest can reasonably be expected to arise to
the individual under arrangements with the relevant scheme.

42.2.103KFD.3

The individual is to be treated as accruing a loss immediately before the end
of the tax year in which the conditions in subsection  (2)  are first met.

42.2.103KFD.4

The amount of that loss is the amount given by subtracting—

42.2.103KFD.4.a

the amount of carried interest that arose to the individual in respect of the
relevant scheme since the beginning of the first tax year in which a gain is
treated as accruing under section  103KFA (3) , from

42.2.103KFD.4.b

the sum of the chargeable gains that have accrued under section  103KFA (3)
(including any gain that accrues in respect of the tax year in which the loss
accrues).

42.2.103KFD.5

Where a loss has accrued to an individual as a result of  subsection (3) —

42.2.103KFD.5.a

section 103KFA (3)  does not apply (in relation to the individual and the
relevant scheme) for any tax year after the tax year in which the loss
accrued, and

42.2.103KFD.5.b

if carried interest arises to the individual in respect of the relevant scheme
after the loss accrued, the individual may not make a claim under  section
103KFC (3)  in respect of tax charged in relation to it.

########### Anti-avoidance

42.2.103KFE

42.2.103KFE.1

This section applies where an election was made by an individual under section
103KFA  and the main purpose, or one of the main purposes, of making the
election is to cause a loss to be treated as accruing to the individual under
subsection  (3)  of section  103KFD .

42.2.103KFE.2

Any such loss that would (in the absence of this section) accrue to the
individual under that subsection is to be counteracted by the making of such
adjustments as are just and reasonable.

42.2.103KFE.3

Any adjustments required to be made under this section (whether or not by an
officer of Revenue and Customs) may be made by way of—

42.2.103KFE.3.a

an assessment,

42.2.103KFE.3.b

the modification of an assessment, or

42.2.103KFE.3.c

amendment or disallowance of a claim, or otherwise.

42.3

In section 1H (the main rates of CGT), in subsection (9)—

42.3.a

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (a), and

42.3.b

after that paragraph insert—

42.3.b.aa

under section  103KFA (3)  (gains on deemed carried interest where election
made), or

.

42.4

The amendments made by this section have effect for the tax year 2022-23 and
subsequent tax years.

##### Relief on disposal of joint interests in land

43

43.1

In section 248A of TCGA 1992 (roll-over relief on disposal of joint interests
in land: conditions), at end insert—

43.1.8

Section 248B applies in relation to cases where, immediately before the
disposal, the land is held by a partnership comprising the landowner and the
co-owner or co-owners (whether the partnership is formed in Scotland or
elsewhere) as it applies in relation to other cases (and the partners are
regarded as the landowner and the co-owner or co-owners for the purposes of
this section and section 248B).

43.2

In section 248E of TCGA 1992 (relief on disposal of joint interests in private
residence), at end insert—

43.2.9

This section applies in relation to cases where, immediately before the
disposal, the land is held by a partnership comprising the landowner and the
co-owner or co-owners (whether the partnership is formed in Scotland or
elsewhere) as it applies in relation to other cases (and the partners are
regarded as the landowner and the co-owner or co-owners for the purposes of
this section).

43.3

The amendments made by  this section  have effect in relation to disposals
made on or after 6 April 2023.

### Alcohol Duty

#### Charge to alcohol duty

##### Alcoholic products

###### Meaning of “alcoholic product”

44

44.1

In  this Part , “ alcoholic product ” means any of the following—

44.1.a

spirits,

44.1.b

beer,

44.1.c

cider,

44.1.d

wine, and

44.1.e

any other fermented product.

44.2

But a product listed in  subsection (1)  is not an alcoholic product if it is
of an alcoholic strength of 1.2% or less.

44.3

Schedule 6  defines each category of alcoholic product (and makes further
provision in connection with the definitions).

###### Alcoholic strength

45

45.1

The “alcoholic strength” of an alcoholic product is the ratio, expressed as a
percentage, of—

45.1.a

the volume of the alcohol contained in the product, to

45.1.b

the volume of the product (inclusive of the alcohol contained in it).

45.2

The alcoholic strength of any alcoholic product is to be determined by
reference to the product as at 20°C.

45.3

The Commissioners may by regulations make provision about the means of
ascertaining the alcoholic strength, weight or volume of any alcoholic product
or other substance (including products or substances that are not in liquid
form at 20°C) for the purposes of  this Part .

45.4

Regulations under  subsection (3)  may, in particular, include provision for
ascertaining the alcoholic strength, weight or volume of anything contained in
a bottle or container by reference to information given on the bottle or
container or in documents relating to it.

45.5

In  this Part , “ alcohol ” means ethanol.

###### Categories of alcoholic products: regulations

46

The Treasury may by regulations—

46.a

amend  Schedule 6 ;

46.b

provide that a beverage of an alcoholic strength exceeding 1.2%, of a
description specified by or under the regulations, is to be treated as being
an alcoholic product of a particular category listed in  section 44  (whether
or not it would otherwise fall within another category listed in that
section).

##### Charge and rates

###### Alcohol duty: charge

47

47.1

An excise duty (“alcohol duty”) is charged on alcoholic products that are
produced in, or imported into, the United Kingdom.

47.2

But  subsection (1)  is subject to the exemptions in  Chapters 4  and  6 .

###### Rates

48

48.1

Alcohol duty is charged at the rates shown in  Schedule 7 .

48.2

But  subsection (1)  is subject to—

48.2.a

section 50  (draught relief), and

48.2.b

section 54  (small producer relief).

###### Excise duty point and payment

49

49.1

Alcohol duty is to be paid, and the amount chargeable is to be determined and
become due, in accordance with provision made by or under—

49.1.a

section 88 ;

49.1.b

section 1 of F(No. 2)A 1992.

49.2

In  this Part , “ excise duty point ” has the meaning given by section 1 of
F(No. 2)A 1992.

#### Draught relief

##### Qualifying draught products: reduced rates

50

50.1

Alcohol duty is charged on qualifying draught products at the reduced rates
shown in  Schedule 8  (instead of at the rates shown in  Schedule 7  (the
“full rates”)).

50.2

But a person liable to pay alcohol duty on qualifying draught products may,
for the purposes of  section 52 (2) , elect for duty to be charged at the full
rates.

##### Alcoholic products qualifying for draught relief

51

51.1

“ Qualifying draught products ” means alcoholic products that—

51.1.a

are of an alcoholic strength of less than 8.5%, and

51.1.b

at the excise duty point are contained in, or are being transported to a place
in the United Kingdom for the purpose of being transferred to, a large draught
container.

51.2

But alcoholic products that are produced in the United Kingdom by a person
otherwise than in accordance with an approval under  section 82  are not
qualifying draught products.

51.3

A “ large draught container ” means a container which—

51.3.a

is of a capacity of at least 20 litres, and

51.3.b

incorporates, or is designed to connect to, a qualifying system for dispensing
individual drinks.

51.4

For the purposes of  subsection (3) (b) , “ qualifying system ” means—

51.4.a

a pressurised gas delivery system, or

51.4.b

a pump delivery system.

51.5

The Commissioners may by regulations—

51.5.a

amend  subsection (3) (a)  so as to specify a different capacity;

51.5.b

amend  subsection (4)  so as to add or remove, or to vary the description of,
a qualifying system.

##### Repackaging qualifying draught products

52

52.1

For the purposes of  this section , qualifying draught products are
“repackaged” if—

52.1.a

they are transferred to containers that are not large draught containers, but

52.1.b

are not transferred in the course of serving a beverage for immediate
consumption.

52.2

A person may not repackage qualifying draught products on any premises in the
United Kingdom unless—

52.2.a

the repackaging is authorised, or

52.2.b

alcohol duty was charged on the products at the full rates, in accordance with
an election under  section 50 (2) .

52.3

Repackaging is “authorised” if it is carried out by a person who is—

52.3.a

approved and registered under section 100G of CEMA 1979 by virtue of
regulation 3 of the Warehousekeepers and Owners of Warehoused Goods
Regulations 1999 ( S.I. 1999/1278 ), or

52.3.b

approved under  section 82  (producers of alcoholic products).

52.4

Where the repackaging of qualifying draught products is authorised, an amount
equal to the duty shortfall is treated, for the purposes of  this Part , as an
amount of alcohol duty charged on the repackaged products.

52.5

In  this section  and in  section 53 , the “ duty shortfall ” in relation to
repackaged qualifying draught products is the difference between—

52.5.a

the alcohol duty payable on the alcoholic products under  section 50 (1)
(draught products: reduced rates), and

52.5.b

the alcohol duty that would have been payable on the alcoholic products under
section 48  (rates) if they had not, at the excise duty point, been qualifying
draught products.

52.6

For the purposes of subsection (2), the Commissioners may by regulations
require a person to provide, on the supply to another person of qualifying
draught products in respect of which an election under  section 50 (2)  has
been made, information or documents, of a description specified by or under
the regulations, as evidence that duty has been charged at the full rates.

##### Repackaging in contravention of 

53

53.1

This section  applies if a person repackages qualifying draught products in
contravention of  section 52 (2) .

53.2

The Commissioners may—

53.2.a

assess as alcohol duty due from the person mentioned in  subsection (1)  an
amount equal to the duty shortfall, and

53.2.b

notify that person or that person’s representative of any assessment under
paragraph (a) .

53.3

The conduct mentioned in  subsection (1)  attracts a penalty under section 9
of FA 1994, calculated by reference to the amount of duty referred to in
section 52 (5) (b) .

53.4

Any alcoholic products, articles (including packaging or equipment) or
substances in the person's possession, used (or which may be used) for or in
connection with the repackaging, are liable to forfeiture.

#### Small producer relief

##### Main provisions

###### Small producer relief: discounted rates

54

54.1

Alcohol duty is charged at the discounted rate on small producer alcoholic
products produced in a particular production year (the “current year”).

54.2

The discounted rate, in relation to small producer alcoholic products, is
equal to—

54.2.a

the standard rate, less

54.2.b

the duty discount for those products (determined in accordance with  section
59  and  Schedule 9 ).

54.3

In  subsection (2) (a) , the “ standard rate ”, in relation to alcoholic
products, means—

54.3.a

the rate shown for products of that kind in  Schedule 7 , or

54.3.b

if  Schedule 8  applies (and no election has been made under  section 50 (2) )
in relation to the products) the rate shown for products of that kind in that
Schedule.

54.4

For the purposes of this Chapter—

54.4.a

a “production year” is a period of 12 months beginning with 1 February;

54.4.b

the “ previous year ”, in relation to alcoholic products, is the production
year immediately preceding the current year in relation to those products.

###### Small producer alcoholic products

55

55.1

“Small producer alcoholic products” are alcoholic products that—

55.1.a

are of an alcoholic strength of less than 8.5%,

55.1.b

are produced on premises that are small production premises,

55.1.c

are not produced under licence, and

55.1.d

meet such other conditions (if any) as are specified by regulations made by
the Commissioners.

55.2

Subsection (1)  is subject to  section 58  (exclusions).

###### Small production premises

56

56.1

Production premises are “small production premises” in the current year in
relation to alcoholic products if—

56.1.a

the production limit condition is met, and

56.1.b

the unlicensed product condition is met.

56.2

The “production limit condition” is met in relation to non-group premises if,
in relation to those premises, neither of the following amounts exceeds the
small production limit—

56.2.a

the alcohol production amount for the previous year;

56.2.b

the estimated alcohol production amount for the current year,

56.3

The “production limit condition” is met in relation to group premises if
neither of the following amounts exceeds the small production limit—

56.3.a

the aggregate of the alcohol production amount, in relation to every set of
premises in the production group, for the previous year;

56.3.b

the aggregate of the estimated alcohol production amount, in relation to every
set of premises in the production group, for the current year.

56.4

The “small production limit” is 4500 hectolitres.

56.5

The “unlicensed product condition” is met—

56.5.a

in relation to non-group premises if the condition in  subsection (6)  is met
in relation to those premises;

56.5.b

in relation to group premises if the condition in  subsection (6)  is met in
relation to every set of premises in the production group.

56.6

The condition is that—

56.6.a

less than half of the alcohol production amount (if any), in relation to the
premises, for the previous year was contained in alcoholic products produced
under licence, and

56.6.b

the producer reasonably estimates that less than half of the alcohol
production amount, in relation to the premises, for the current year will be
contained in alcoholic products produced under licence.

###### “Alcohol production amount” etc

57

57.1

In relation to production premises—

57.1.a

the “alcohol production amount” for a production year is the total amount of
alcohol contained in alcoholic products produced on those premises in that
year, and

57.1.b

the “estimated alcohol production amount” for a production year is the
producer’s reasonable estimate of the alcohol production amount for those
premises in that year.

57.2

Subsection (1)  is subject to  subsections (3)  to  (6) .

57.3

The reference in  subsection (1)  to the alcoholic products produced on a set
of premises does not include a reference to any alcoholic products that are—

57.3.a

spoilt or destroyed before the excise duty point, or

57.3.b

produced in the course of producing a different alcoholic product on those
premises or on any set of connected premises.

57.4

Subsection (5)  applies where premises are in use for the purposes of the
production of alcoholic products for part only (the “relevant part”) of a
production year (including where premises begin to be used for those purposes
part-way through a production year).

57.5

The alcohol production amount or (as the case may be) the estimated alcohol
production amount is treated, for the purposes of  this Part , as being the
amount given by—

57.5.a

dividing the actual alcohol production amount, or (as the case may be) the
estimate of that amount, by the number of days in the relevant part of the
production year, and

57.5.b

multiplying the amount given by  paragraph (a)  by the number of days in the
production year.

57.6

The Commissioners may, if satisfied that the circumstances are exceptional,
agree with a producer that certain alcoholic products, or a certain quantity
of alcoholic products, may be disregarded for the purposes of determining—

57.6.a

the alcohol production amount, or

57.6.b

the estimated alcohol production amount,

in relation to production premises for any production year.

###### Exclusions

58

Alcoholic products produced on any premises are not “small producer alcoholic
products” if—

58.a

they are exempt from duty under any of  sections 72 ,  76  or  77 ,

58.b

they are produced in the United Kingdom by a person otherwise than in
accordance with an approval under  section 82 ,

58.c

at the time they are produced, the alcohol production amount attributable to
the premises (in the case of non-group premises) or the production group (in
the case of group premises) for the current year has exceeded the small
production limit, or

58.d

they are produced—

58.d.i

in the case of non-group premises, before the producer has estimated (for the
purposes of  section 57 ) the alcohol production amount attributable to the
premises for the current year, or

58.d.ii

in the case of group premises, before the producer in relation to those
premises or any connected premises has estimated (for the purposes of  section
57 ) the alcohol production amount attributable to those premises or any
connected premises for that year.

###### Duty discount for small producer alcoholic products

59

59.1

The duty discount, in relation to small producer alcoholic products in a
discount band, is the amount (in £ per litre of alcohol) given by the formula
in subsection (2) and rounded up to the nearest penny.

59.2

The formula is—

C + ( M ( A - S ) ) A where— C is the cumulative discount for the discount
band (in £); M is the marginal discount for the discount band (in £); A is the
relevant production amount (in hectolitres); S is the start threshold for the
discount band (in hectolitres).

59.3

Where the alcoholic products are produced on non-group premises, the “relevant
production amount” is—

59.3.a

the alcohol production amount, in relation to those premises, for the previous
year, or

59.3.b

if that amount would be nil, the estimated alcohol production amount in
relation to those premises for the current year.

59.4

Where the alcoholic products are produced on group premises, the “relevant
production amount” is —

59.4.a

the aggregate of the alcohol production amount for the previous year, in
relation to every set of premises in the production group on which alcoholic
products were produced in that year, or

59.4.b

if there are no premises in the production group on which alcoholic products
were produced in the previous year, the aggregate of the estimated alcoholic
production amount, in relation to every set of premises in the production
group, for the current year.

59.5

Small producer alcoholic products are in a particular discount band if the
relevant production amount in relation to those products—

59.5.a

exceeds the start threshold for that band, but

59.5.b

does not exceed the end threshold for that band.

59.6

The start and end thresholds, cumulative discount and marginal discount for a
discount band are the figures shown—

59.6.a

in relation to alcoholic products (other than qualifying draught products
referred to in paragraph (b)) of a particular description, in the tables in
Part 1 of  Schedule 9 , and

59.6.b

in relation to qualifying draught products (in respect of which no election
has been made under section 50(2)) of a particular description, in the tables
in Part 2 of  Schedule 9 .

###### Assessments where incorrectly low rate of alcohol duty applied

60

60.1

This section  applies if—

60.1.a

alcohol duty is charged on alcoholic products,

60.1.b

it appears at the excise duty point that the alcoholic products are small
producer alcoholic products, and

60.1.c

it turns out that the alcoholic products were not small producer alcoholic
products (including where circumstances were not as they appeared at the
excise duty point or where circumstances subsequently changed).

60.2

This section  also applies if—

60.2.a

alcohol duty is charged on small producer alcoholic products, and

60.2.b

the discounted rate that at the excise duty point appeared to be the correct
rate turns out to be lower than the correct rate (including where
circumstances were not as they appeared at the excise duty point or where
circumstances subsequently changed).

60.3

The Commissioners—

60.3.a

may assess as being alcohol duty due from the liable person an amount equal to
the duty shortfall, and

60.3.b

must notify that person or that person’s representative of any assessment
under  paragraph (a) .

60.4

In  this section  “ duty shortfall ” means the difference between—

60.4.a

the actual amount of alcohol duty chargeable on the alcoholic products, and

60.4.b

the lower amount that, at the excise duty point, appeared to be the amount
chargeable.

60.5

The reference in  subsection (3)  to the “ liable person ” is a reference to
the person liable to pay the alcohol duty on the alcoholic products.

##### Mergers and demergers

###### Mergers: general provisions

61

61.1

This section  and  sections 62  to  67  apply where a small producer (“SP1”)
becomes connected with another small producer ( “SP2” ).

61.2

“ Post-merger production group ” means the production group that consists of—

61.2.a

every set of premises on which SP1 or SP2 produces alcoholic products, and

61.2.b

every set of connected premises,

and references to “post-merger production group premises” are to premises
within  paragraph (a)  or  (b) .

61.3

In relation to the post-merger production group—

61.3.a

“ Year 1 ” means the production year in which SP1 and SP2 become connected
with one another,

61.3.b

“ Year 2 ” means the production year immediately following Year 1,

61.3.c

“ Year 3 ” means the production year immediately following Year 2, and

61.3.d

the “ pre-merger year ” means the production year immediately preceding Year
1.

61.4

Each of Year 1, Year 2 and Year 3 is a “ merger transition year ” in relation
to the post-merger production group, unless any of the following apply—

61.4.a

section 65  (early termination of merger transition period),

61.4.b

section 66  (subsequent mergers), or

61.4.c

section 68 (8)  (demergers in a merger transition year).

###### Modified “small production premises” test

62

62.1

This section  (instead of  section 56 ) applies in relation to a post-merger
production group in a merger transition year.

62.2

Post-merger production group premises are “small production premises” in the
current year in relation to alcoholic products if—

62.2.a

the adjusted post-merger amount, determined in accordance with  section 64
does not exceed the small production limit (within the meaning of  section 56
(4) ), and

62.2.b

in relation to each set of post-merger production group premises, less than
half of the alcohol production amount (if any), in relation to those premises,
for the previous year was contained in alcoholic products produced under
licence.

###### Modified duty discount

63

63.1

This section  applies in relation to alcoholic products that are produced—

63.1.a

on post-merger production group premises, and

63.1.b

in a merger transition year.

63.2

For the purposes of  section 59 , references to the “ relevant production
amount ” are references to the adjusted post-merger amount (and subsections
(3) and (4) of that section do not apply).

63.3

Section 58 (c)  does not apply for the purposes of the application of  section
55  or  59  in a merger transition year.

###### Adjusted post-merger amount

64

64.1

In Year 1, the adjusted post-merger amount is the alcohol production amount in
relation to the larger producer’s premises for the pre-merger year, determined
in accordance with  section 57  (and the alcohol production amount
attributable to the smaller producer for the pre-merger year is disregarded).

64.2

In Year 2, the adjusted post-merger amount is the total of—

64.2.a

the adjusted post-merger amount in Year 1, and

64.2.b

one-third of the production difference for Year 2.

64.3

In Year 3, the adjusted post-merger amount is the total of—

64.3.a

the adjusted post-merger amount in Year 1, and

64.3.b

two-thirds of the production difference for Year 3.

64.4

The amount of the “production difference” for a merger transition year is the
difference between—

64.4.a

the aggregate of the alcohol production amount, in relation to every set of
post-merger production group premises, for the previous year (determined in
accordance with  section 57 ), and

64.4.b

the adjusted post-merger amount in Year 1.

64.5

If the alcohol production amount attributable to SP1’s premises for the pre-
merger year is greater than the alcohol production amount attributable to
SP2’s premises for that year—

64.5.a

SP1 is the “larger producer”, and

64.5.b

SP2 is the “smaller producer”,

and vice versa.

64.6

If the amount mentioned in  subsection (5)  is equal in relation to both SP1’s
premises and SP2’s premises, either SP1 or SP2 may be treated as the “ larger
producer ” for the purposes of  this section .

64.7

In  subsections (1) ,  (5)  and  (6) , references to a person’s premises are
references to—

64.7.a

the premises on which the person produces alcoholic products immediately
before becoming connected with the other person mentioned in  section 61 (1) ,
if those premises are (at that time) non-group premises, or

64.7.b

if those premises are group premises, the production group which, at that
time, includes those premises (and the reference in  subsection (1)  to the
alcohol production amount in relation to those premises is a reference to the
aggregate of the alcohol production amount in relation to those premises and
every set of connected premises).

###### Early termination of merger transition period

65

65.1

This section  applies in relation to a post-merger production group if, in a
relevant year, Amount A is less than Amount B.

65.2

“Amount A” is the aggregate of the alcohol production amount, in relation to
every set of premises in the group, for the production year immediately
preceding the relevant year (determined in accordance with  section 57 ).

65.3

“Amount B” is the adjusted post-merger amount in the relevant year.

65.4

Neither the relevant year, nor any subsequent production year, is a merger
transition year in relation to the group.

65.5

Each of Year 1, 2 and 3 is a “ relevant year ” for the purposes of  this
section .

###### Subsequent mergers

66

66.1

This section  applies if—

66.1.a

a person who produces alcoholic products on group premises which are included
in a post-merger production group (the “first post-merger group”) becomes
connected with another person who produces alcoholic products (that are not
exempt from duty under any of  sections 72 ,  76  or  77 ), and

66.1.b

the producers mentioned in  paragraph (a)  become connected with one another
in Year 1, 2 or 3 in relation to the first post-merger group.

66.2

Neither the production year in which the producers mentioned in  subsection
(1) (a)  become connected with one another, nor any subsequent year, is a
merger transition year in relation to the first post-merger group.

66.3

But  subsection (2)  does not prevent the application of  sections 61  to  67
in relation to the post-merger production group that includes both of the
producers mentioned in  subsection (1) (a) .

###### Simultaneous mergers

67

67.1

Subsections (2)  to  (4)  apply if, at the same time as SP1 becomes connected
with SP2, SP1 also becomes connected with one or more other small producers
(who are not already connected with one another).

67.2

References in  sections 61  and  64  to SP2  include references to the other
small producers becoming connected with SP1.

67.3

For the purposes of  section 64 —

67.3.a

the “larger producer” is the producer with a greater alcohol production amount
attributable to the producer’s premises for the pre-merger year than any of
the other producers mentioned in  subsection (1) , and

67.3.b

each of the other producers is a “smaller producer”,

(and  this subsection  applies instead of  section 64 (5) ).

67.4

If the amount mentioned in  subsection (3) (a)  is equal in relation to any
two or more of the producers mentioned in  subsection (1) , any one of them
may be treated as the “ larger producer ” for the purposes of  section 64 .

###### Demergers

68

68.1

This section  applies if a demerger event occurs in relation to a production
group.

68.2

A “demerger event” occurs, in relation to a production group, if a group
producer (the “demerging producer”) ceases to be connected with at least one
other group producer.

68.3

A “ group producer ” in relation to a production group means a person who
produces alcoholic products on premises that are (immediately before the
demerger event) included in the production group.

68.4

For the purposes of the application of  sections 56  and  59  in relation to
the demerger year, the alcohol production amount for the immediately preceding
production year, in relation to production premises that were (immediately
before the demerger event) included in the group, is treated as being nil.

68.5

If, before the end of the restricted period, the demerging producer becomes
connected again with another group producer, none of  sections 61  to  67
apply by reference to that connection.

68.6

For the purposes of  subsection (5) , the “restricted period” is the period of
7 years beginning with the date on which the demerger event occurs.

68.7

Subsection (8)  applies if the demerger event occurs in Year 1, 2 or 3 in
relation to a post-merger production group (the “relevant group”).

68.8

Neither the production year in which the event occurs, nor any subsequent
year, is a merger transition year in relation to the relevant group.

68.9

References in  this section  to the “demerger year” are references to the
production year in which the demerger event occurs.

##### Interpretation of Chapter 3

###### “Producer”, “production premises”, “group premises” etc

69

69.1

This section  applies for the purposes of  this Chapter .

69.2

“ Production premises ” means premises (whether or not in the United Kingdom)
on which alcoholic products are produced.

69.3

Production premises are “group premises” at a time in a production year (the
“reference time”) if—

69.3.a

a person (“ P ”) who produces alcoholic products on the premises at the
reference time or at any earlier time in that year, or

69.3.b

a person connected with P,

also produces alcoholic products on any other premises at the reference time
or any earlier time in that year.

69.4

“ Connected premises ”, in relation to group premises, means premises on which
alcoholic products are produced at the reference time or at any earlier time
in the current year, by—

69.4.a

P, or

69.4.b

a person connected with P.

69.5

References to “ the production group ”, in relation to group premises, are
references to the group consisting of—

69.5.a

the group premises, and

69.5.b

every set of connected premises.

69.6

Production premises are “non-group premises” at a time in a production year
if, at that time, they are not group premises.

69.7

In  this Chapter —

69.7.a

references to the “ producer ”, in relation to a set of premises, are
references to the person who produces alcoholic products on those premises,
and

69.7.b

references to a “small producer” are references to a person who produces small
producer alcoholic products.

###### Connected persons

70

70.1

References in  this Chapter  to a person being or becoming connected with
another person are to be construed in accordance with section 1122 of CTA
2010.

70.2

But the Commissioners may, if they think it appropriate, treat two connected
persons as if they were not connected with one another for the purposes of
this Chapter .

###### Index of defined expressions: 

71

The following Table sets out expressions defined or explained for the purposes
of  this Chapter —

Expression Provision adjusted post-merger amount section 64 (1)  to  (3)
alcohol production amount section 57 (1) (a) connected premises section 69 (4)
current year section 54 (1) duty discount section 59 (1) estimated alcohol
production amount section 57 (1) (b) group premises section 69 (3) merger
transition year section 61 (4) non-group premises section 69 (6) post-merger
production group section 61 (3) post-merger production group premises section
61 (2) previous year section 54 (4) (b) producer (in  Chapter 3 ) section 69
(7) (a) production group section 69 (5) production premises section 69 (2)
production year section 54 (4) (a) small producer section 69 (7) (b) small
producer alcoholic products section 55 small production limit section 56 (4)
small production premises section 56  (for general purposes);  section 62  (in
relation to a post-merger production group) SP1 and SP2 section 61 (1) Year 1,
Year 2 and Year 3 section 61 (3)

#### Other reliefs and exemptions

##### General

###### Exemption: production for personal consumption

72

Alcohol duty is not charged on alcoholic products which—

72.a

are produced, in the United Kingdom, by a person who produces alcoholic
products only for the person’s own domestic use, and

72.b

are not spirits.

###### Research and experiments

73

73.1

This section  applies where—

73.1.a

alcohol duty is chargeable on alcoholic products produced in the United
Kingdom, and

73.1.b

the Commissioners are satisfied that the alcoholic products are to be used
only for the purposes of research into, or experiments in, the production of
alcoholic products.

73.2

The Commissioners may remit or repay the alcohol duty.

###### Spoilt alcoholic products

74

74.1

This section  applies where—

74.1.a

alcohol duty is chargeable on alcoholic products, and

74.1.b

the Commissioners are satisfied that the alcoholic products have become spoilt
or unfit for use.

74.2

The Commissioners may remit or repay the alcohol duty.

###### Alcoholic ingredients

75

75.1

  Subsection (2)  applies where a person proves to the satisfaction of the
Commissioners that—

75.1.a

alcohol duty is chargeable, and has been paid, on alcoholic products, and

75.1.b

the alcoholic products have been used as an ingredient in the production or
manufacture of—

75.1.b.i

a qualifying food product, or

75.1.b.ii

a beverage of an alcoholic strength of 1.2% or less.

75.2

The person is entitled to repayment of the alcohol duty, on making a claim in
accordance with  this section  (subject to  subsection (7) ).

75.3

In  this section  “ qualifying food product ” means—

75.3.a

vinegar,

75.3.b

chocolates containing alcohol, where 100 kilograms of the chocolates would not
contain more than 8.5 litres of alcohol, or

75.3.c

any other food (for human consumption) which contains alcohol, where 100
kilograms of the food would not contain more than 5 litres of alcohol.

75.4

Alcoholic products that are converted into vinegar are treated, for the
purposes of  this section , as being used as an ingredient in the production
or manufacture of vinegar.

75.5

Neither of the following is a qualifying food product for the purposes of this
section—

75.5.a

a beverage, including a beverage produced or intended for consumption in
frozen form;

75.5.b

a product that is intended for consumption as a substitute for a beverage.

75.6

A claim for repayment under  this section —

75.6.a

must be in the form and manner, and contain the information, required by the
Commissioners (either generally or in a particular case), and

75.6.b

except so far as the Commissioners otherwise allow, relate to duty paid on
alcoholic products used as an ingredient during a period of 3 months ending
not more than 3 years before the claim is made.

75.7

No repayment of duty may be made unless the Commissioners are satisfied that
the repayment claimed does not relate to any duty which has been repaid or
drawn back prior to the making of the claim.

75.8

The Commissioners may remit any alcohol duty chargeable—

75.8.a

on alcoholic products imported into the United Kingdom at a time when they are
contained as an ingredient in a qualifying food product within  subsection (3)
(b)  or  (c) , or

75.8.b

on alcoholic products used as an ingredient in the manufacture or production
in an excise warehouse of a qualifying food product within  subsection (3) (b)
or  (c) .

##### Spirits

###### Imported medical articles

76

76.1

Alcohol duty is not charged on spirits contained in medical articles imported
into the United Kingdom.

76.2

“ Medical article ” means an article recognised by the Commissioners as being
an article used for medical purposes.

###### Flavourings

77

77.1

Alcohol duty is not charged on spirits contained in food and drink
flavourings.

77.2

In  this section —

“ food and drink flavourings ” means any qualifying flavourings which are for
use in— the preparation of food for human consumption, or the preparation of
any beverage of an alcoholic strength not exceeding 1.2%; “ qualifying
flavourings ” means any products falling within commodity code 3302 of the
customs tariff established by regulations made under section 8 of TCTA 2018.

###### Authorised use for certain purposes

78

78.1

This section  applies where a person proposes to use spirits, on which alcohol
duty is chargeable, either—

78.1.a

in the manufacture or preparation of medical articles, or

78.1.b

for scientific purposes.

78.2

This section  also applies where—

78.2.a

a person proposes to use spirits, on which alcohol duty is chargeable, for the
purposes of art or manufacture (other than the manufacture of medical
articles), and

78.2.b

the Commissioners are satisfied that denatured alcohol would not be suitable
for that use.

78.3

The Commissioners may authorise the person to receive the spirits, and permit
the delivery of the spirits from relevant premises to that person, without
payment of the alcohol duty.

78.4

In  subsection (3) , “ relevant premises ” means—

78.4.a

an excise warehouse, or

78.4.b

premises in respect of which a person is approved (including premises on which
a person is authorised to hold alcoholic products without payment of duty)
under  section 82 .

78.5

An authorisation under  this section  may be given subject to the conditions
(if any)—

78.5.a

specified by the Commissioners in a notice published by them;

78.5.b

imposed by them in a particular case.

78.6

If a person fails to comply with a condition in respect of an authorisation,
the failure attracts a penalty under section 9 of FA 1994.

78.7

Subsection (8)  applies if—

78.7.a

the spirits are delivered to the person mentioned in  subsection (3) , and

78.7.b

the spirits are used otherwise than for the purpose in respect of which the
authorisation was given.

78.8

The Commissioners—

78.8.a

may assess as being alcohol duty due from the person an amount equal to the
alcohol duty that would have been charged on the spirits if, at the time of
delivery, no authorisation under  this section  had been given, and

78.8.b

must notify that person or the person’s representative of the assessment.

78.9

In  this section  “ medical article ” has the same meaning as in  section 76 .

###### Imported goods not for human consumption

79

79.1

The Commissioners may remit any alcohol duty chargeable on spirits imported
into the United Kingdom at a time when the spirits are contained in goods that
are not for human consumption.

79.2

If it turns out that the goods containing spirits are for human consumption,
the Commissioners—

79.2.a

may assess as being alcohol duty due from the relevant person an amount equal
to the alcohol duty that would (apart from  subsection (1) ) have been charged
on the goods, and

79.2.b

must notify the relevant person or that person’s representative of the
assessment.

79.3

For the purposes of  subsection (2) , references to “ the relevant person ”
are references to the importer.

###### Restrictions on use of certain articles

80

80.1

If a person makes unauthorised use of an article to which  this section
applies—

80.1.a

that conduct attracts a penalty under section 9 of FA 1994, and

80.1.b

the article is liable to forfeiture.

80.2

This section  applies to—

80.2.a

an article containing spirits which are exempt under  section 76  from the
charge to alcohol duty;

80.2.b

an article in respect of which spirits were used in the manufacture or
preparation, where remission of alcohol duty on the spirits was obtained under
section 78 .

80.3

A person makes “unauthorised use” of an article for the purposes of  this
section  if—

80.3.a

the person uses the article other than for medical or scientific purposes, and

80.3.b

the person has not complied with the requirements under  subsection (4) .

80.4

The requirements are that—

80.4.a

the person must obtain the written consent of the Commissioners to the use of
the article other than for medical or scientific purposes, and

80.4.b

the person must pay to the Commissioners an amount equal to the duty
shortfall.

80.5

In  this section , the “ duty shortfall ” means—

80.5.a

the difference between the duty charged on the spirits contained in, or used
in the manufacture or preparation of, the article, and

80.5.b

the duty which would have been chargeable had the article not been exempt
under  section 76  or the duty had not been remitted under  section 78 .

80.6

The Commissioners may make regulations for the purpose of enforcing  this
section .

80.7

Regulations under  subsection (6)  may, in particular, require a person
carrying on any trade in which spirits or articles containing, manufactured or
prepared with spirits are, in the opinion of the Commissioners, likely to be
or have been used—

80.7.a

to give and verify particulars of the materials which the person is using or
has used, or the articles the person has sold;

80.7.b

to produce any documents (of whatever nature) relating to such materials or
articles.

80.8

If a person contravenes or fails to comply with any regulation made under
subsection (6) , the contravention or failure attracts a penalty under section
9 of FA 1994.

80.9

In  this section , a reference to an article includes a reference to any part
of that article.

##### Remission and repayment

###### Further provision about remission and repayment

81

81.1

The remission or repayment of alcohol duty under any provision of  this
Chapter  is subject to the conditions (if any)—

81.1.a

specified by the Commissioners in a notice published by them;

81.1.b

specified by or under regulations made by them;

81.1.c

imposed by them in a particular case.

81.2

If a person fails to comply with a condition in respect of the remission or
repayment, the failure attracts a penalty under section 9 of FA 1994.

#### Regulated activities and approvals

##### Approval requirement: producers

82

82.1

A person may not produce alcoholic products on any premises unless—

82.1.a

the production on those premises is in accordance with an approval given under
this section  by the Commissioners to the person, or

82.1.b

the person is exempt from the approval requirement under  section 84  or  85 .

82.2

The Commissioners may approve a person under  this section  only if they are
satisfied that the person is a fit and proper person to produce alcoholic
products.

82.3

An approval under  this section  may authorise the approved person to hold
alcoholic products (including alcoholic products produced by another person
in, or imported into, the United Kingdom) on certain premises without payment
of alcohol duty.

82.4

A person may not carry out other activities on those premises in relation to
those alcoholic products, without payment of alcohol duty, except in
accordance with an approval under this section.

82.5

The reference in subsection (4) to “ activities ” includes, in particular,
packaging and processing, or carrying out other operations on or in relation
to, the alcoholic products.

##### Supplementary provision about approvals

83

83.1

An approval under  section 82  may be given to a person—

83.1.a

in respect of—

83.1.a.i

more than one category of alcoholic product;

83.1.a.ii

more than one set of premises;

83.1.b

for such period as the Commissioners think fit.

83.2

An approval is subject to the conditions or restrictions (if any)—

83.2.a

specified by the Commissioners in a notice published by them;

83.2.b

specified by or under regulations made by them;

83.2.c

imposed by them in a particular case.

83.3

The Commissioners may, at any time, revoke or vary the terms of an approval.

83.4

An application for approval must be in the form and manner, and contain the
information, specified by or under regulations made by the Commissioners.

##### Exemption: production for personal consumption

84

For the purposes of  section 82 (1) (b) , a person is exempt from the approval
requirement if—

84.a

the person produces alcoholic products only for the person’s own domestic use,
and

84.b

the alcoholic products are not spirits.

##### Exemption: research and experiments

85

For the purposes of  section 82 (1) (b) , a person is exempt from the approval
requirement if—

85.a

the person produces alcoholic products only for the purposes of research into,
or experiments in, the production of alcoholic products, and

85.b

the person complies with, and the alcoholic products are produced in
accordance with, the requirements specified—

85.b.i

by the Commissioners in a notice published by them, or

85.b.ii

by or under regulations made by the Commissioners.

##### Mixing alcoholic products

86

86.1

A person may not mix two or more alcoholic products unless one of the
following exemptions applies.

86.2

The first exemption applies if the products are mixed—

86.2.a

either—

86.2.a.i

in accordance with an approval under  section 82 , or

86.2.a.ii

in an excise warehouse, and

86.2.b

the mixing takes place before the excise duty point.

86.3

The second exemption applies if all of the alcoholic products being mixed—

86.3.a

fall within the same paragraph of  section 44 (1) , and

86.3.b

are of the same alcoholic strength.

86.4

The third exemption applies if—

86.4.a

the alcohol duty on each of the alcoholic products being mixed has been paid,
and

86.4.b

that amount is equal to or exceeds the amount of alcohol duty that would (if
the mixing had taken place before the excise duty point) have been chargeable
on the resulting mix.

86.5

The fourth exemption applies if—

86.5.a

the alcohol duty on each of the alcoholic products being mixed has been paid,

86.5.b

the resulting mix is intended for consumption on the premises on which the
mixing takes place, and

86.5.c

the method of mixing is of a description specified in a notice published by
the Commissioners.

##### Post-duty point dilution of alcoholic products

87

87.1

A person may not mix water or any other substance with alcoholic products on
which alcohol duty is chargeable if—

87.1.a

the mixing takes places after the excise duty point in relation to that
charge,

87.1.b

the resulting product is intended for sale, and

87.1.c

if the mixing had taken place immediately before the excise duty point, the
amount of alcohol duty would have been greater than the amount actually
payable.

87.2

This section  has effect, despite section 8 of the Isle of Man Act 1979, as if
a removal of relevant alcoholic products to the United Kingdom from the Isle
of Man constituted their importation into the United Kingdom (and references
to the charge to alcohol duty and to the excise duty point are to be read
accordingly).

##### Alcoholic products regulations

88

88.1

The Commissioners may by regulations (“ alcoholic products regulations ”) make
provision—

88.1.a

regulating the production, packaging, keeping and storage of alcoholic
products produced in, or imported into, the United Kingdom;

88.1.b

for determining when the production of any alcoholic product begins and when
it is completed;

88.1.c

for securing and collecting alcohol duty;

88.1.d

for determining alcohol duty, the rate and the method of charging the duty;

88.1.e

for charging alcohol duty, in specified circumstances, by reference to an
alcoholic strength which any alcoholic product might reasonably be expected to
have, or the rate of duty in force, at a time other than that at which the
alcoholic product becomes chargeable;

88.1.f

for determining the alcohol production amount in relation to a set of premises
(for the purposes of Chapter 3 of this Part), in specified circumstances, by
reference to an alcoholic strength which any alcoholic product might
reasonably be expected to have at a time other than that at which the
alcoholic product is produced;

88.1.g

for full or partial relief from alcohol duty in specified circumstances (and
whether or not subject to conditions);

88.1.h

regulating or prohibiting the addition of substances to, the mixing of, or the
carrying out of other operations on or in relation to, any alcoholic product;

88.1.i

regulating the approval of persons under this Chapter, including the variation
or revocation of the approval or of any condition or restriction to which it
is subject;

88.1.j

permitting, in specified circumstances, the removal of alcoholic products from
certain premises without payment of duty (whether or not subject to
conditions);

88.1.k

make provision in respect of alcoholic products permitted to be removed from
premises without payment of duty or on which alcohol duty has been remitted;

88.1.l

regulating the transportation of alcoholic products;

88.1.m

requiring the production of certificates as to matters relating to alcoholic
products imported into the United Kingdom, and the production and producer of
those products, as evidence that conditions for charging the duty at a
particular rate are satisfied.

88.2

Alcoholic products regulations may, in particular, include provision—

88.2.a

requiring the making of returns;

88.2.b

for notifications and other communications with the Commissioners to be made
electronically;

88.2.c

requiring persons to keep, and make available for inspection, specified
records relating to alcoholic products;

88.2.d

for the imposition under the regulations of requirements as to documents to
accompany, or be provided with, alcohol products at any time during a
specified period or in specified circumstances, and requiring production of
those documents;

88.2.e

conferring powers on an officer of Revenue and Customs to inspect, copy or
remove for a reasonable period records or documents relating to alcoholic
products;

88.2.f

for assessing an amount as alcohol duty due from a person in specified
circumstances;

88.2.g

for the imposition under the regulations of conditions and restrictions (which
may include a requirement to give a guarantee or other security).

88.3

The reference in  subsection (1) (k)  to alcoholic products permitted to be
removed from premises without payment of duty is treated as including a
reference to alcoholic products that are—

88.3.a

treated for the purposes of alcohol duty, by provision made (or having effect
as if made) under section 12 of the Customs and Excise Duties (General
Reliefs) Act 1979 (supply of duty-free goods to His Majesty’s ships), as
exported,

88.3.b

supplied to persons on whom relief from payment of alcohol duty is conferred
by provision made under section 13A of that Act (reliefs from duties and taxes
for persons enjoying certain immunities and privileges), or

88.3.c

supplied for use on a ship, aircraft or railway vehicle as stores, in
accordance with provision made under section 60A of CEMA 1979 (power to make
regulations about stores).

88.4

In this section, “ specified ” means specified by or under alcoholic products
regulations.

##### Penalties and forfeiture

89

89.1

This section  applies if a person contravenes or fails to comply with—

89.1.a

section 82 ,

89.1.b

section 86 (1) ,

89.1.c

section 87 (1) , or

89.1.d

any provision made by or under alcoholic products regulations.

89.2

The person’s conduct attracts a penalty under section 9 of FA 1994.

89.3

Any alcoholic products, articles (including packaging or equipment) or
substances in the person's possession, used (or which may be used) for or in
connection with an action to which the contravention or failure relates, are
liable to forfeiture.

#### Denatured alcohol

##### Denatured alcohol

90

90.1

Alcohol duty is not charged on denatured alcohol.

90.2

“ Denatured alcohol ” means an alcoholic product which has been mixed with a
substance, and in a manner, specified by or under regulations made by the
Commissioners (and references, however expressed, to “denaturing” alcoholic
products are to be construed accordingly).

90.3

Provision made under  subsection (2)  may include provision specifying a
substance, or a manner of mixing, by reference to particular circumstances or
other factors, or to the approval or opinion of specified persons.

90.4

Where—

90.4.a

alcohol duty is chargeable on alcoholic products, and

90.4.b

the Commissioners are satisfied that the alcoholic products are to be
converted into denatured alcohol before the duty is required to be paid,

the duty is to be remitted.

##### Licence to manufacture and deal wholesale in denatured alcohol

91

91.1

A person may not denature any alcoholic products, or deal wholesale in
denatured alcohol, unless the person holds an excise licence as a denaturer
under  this section .

91.2

For the purposes of  this section , a person deals wholesale in denatured
alcohol if the person sells, at any one time to any one person—

91.2.a

a quantity of at least 20 litres of denatured alcohol, or

91.2.b

a smaller quantity, specified by or under regulations made by the
Commissioners, of denatured alcohol.

91.3

The Commissioners may, at any time, revoke or suspend an excise licence under
this section .

91.4

An application for an excise licence as a denaturer must be in the form and
manner, and contain the information, specified by the Commissioners in a
notice published by them.

##### Regulations relating to denatured alcohol

92

92.1

The Commissioners may, with a view to the protection of the revenue, by
regulations make provision—

92.1.a

regulating the denaturing of alcoholic products;

92.1.b

regulating the supply, storage, removal, sale, delivery, receipt, use, export
or shipment as stores of denatured alcohol;

92.1.c

permitting alcoholic products to be denatured in a warehouse;

92.1.d

permitting dealing wholesale (within the meaning of  section 91 ) in denatured
alcohol of a specified description, in specified circumstances, without an
excise licence;

92.1.e

regulating the import, receipt, removal, storage and use of alcoholic products
for denaturing;

92.1.f

regulating the storage and removal of substances to be used in denaturing
alcoholic products;

92.1.g

about the manner in which account is to be kept of stocks of denatured alcohol
in the possession of persons licensed as denaturers under  section 91  and of
retailers of denatured alcohol.

92.2

Regulations under  this section  may, in particular, include provision—

92.2.a

for applications and other communications with the Commissioners to be made
electronically;

92.2.b

requiring persons licensed as denaturers under  section 91  and retailers of
denatured alcohol to keep, and make available for inspection, specified
records relating to denaturing;

92.2.c

conferring powers on an officer of Revenue and Customs to inspect, copy or
remove for a reasonable period those records;

92.2.d

for the imposition under the regulations of conditions and restrictions (which
may include a requirement to give a guarantee or other security).

92.3

In this section, “ specified ” means specified by or under regulations under
this section.

##### Penalties and forfeiture

93

93.1

This section  applies if a person—

93.1.a

fails to comply with  section 91 (1)  (denaturing alcoholic products, or
dealing wholesale in denatured alcohol, otherwise than in accordance with an
excise licence), or

93.1.b

contravenes or fails to comply with any provision made by or under regulations
under  section 92 .

93.2

Conduct mentioned in  subsection (1) (a)  or  (b)  attracts a penalty under
section 9 of FA 1994.

93.3

Any alcoholic product or denatured alcohol, article (including packaging or
equipment) or substance in the person’s possession, used (or which may be
used) for or in connection with an action to which the contravention or
failure relates is liable to forfeiture.

##### Defaults in respect of denatured alcohol: possession of excess alcoholic products

94

94.1

This section  applies if, in relation to a person who holds an excise licence
under  section 91  (the “denaturer”), at a time when an account is taken of
the quantity of denatured alcohol in the denaturer’s possession—

94.1.a

there is a difference between the actual amount and the proper amount, and

94.1.b

either—

94.1.b.i

where the actual amount exceeds the proper amount, the amount of the excess is
more than 1% of the permitted amount, or

94.1.b.ii

where the proper amount exceeds the actual amount, the amount of the excess is
more than 2% of the permitted amount.

94.2

For the purposes of  subsection (1) —

94.2.a

the “actual amount” is the quantity of alcoholic products of any description
in the denatured alcohol in the denaturer’s possession;

94.2.b

the “proper amount” is the quantity of alcoholic products of the same
description which, according to any accounts that are required to be kept by
or under any regulations under  section 92 , ought to be in the denatured
alcohol in the denaturer’s possession.

94.3

Where there is a difference between the actual amount and the proper amount,
in relation to alcoholic products of a particular description, the “permitted
amount” is the aggregate of—

94.3.a

the quantity of alcoholic products of that description when an account was
last taken, and

94.3.b

the quantity of alcoholic products of that description that have since been
lawfully added to the denaturer’s stock.

94.4

In a case within  subsection (1) (b) (i) , the relevant amount of any
alcoholic products of the description to which the difference relates in the
denaturer’s possession is liable to forfeiture.

94.5

The “ relevant amount ” for the purposes of  subsection (4)  is the amount
corresponding to the amount of the excess mentioned in  subsection (1) (b) (i)
, or such smaller amount as the Commissioners consider appropriate.

94.6

In a case within  subsection (1) (b) (ii) , the denaturer must, on demand by
the Commissioners, pay alcohol duty—

94.6.a

on the amount of alcoholic products (of the same description) equal to the
amount of the difference, or

94.6.b

if the Commissioners specify a smaller amount of alcoholic products (of the
same description) in the demand, on that amount.

94.7

A demand made for the purposes of  this section  is to be combined, as if
there had been a default of a kind mentioned in section 12 of FA 1994
(assessments to excise duty) with an assessment and notification under that
section of the amount of duty due in consequence of the demand.

##### Defaults in respect of denatured alcohol: supply and use of denatured alcohol

95

95.1

This section  applies if a person, in contravention of regulations under
section 92 , uses or supplies denatured alcohol containing alcoholic products
of any description.

95.2

The person must, on demand by the Commissioners, pay alcohol duty—

95.2.a

on the amount of alcoholic products contained, at the time of supply or use,
in the denatured alcohol, or

95.2.b

if the Commissioners specify a smaller amount of alcoholic products (of the
same description) in the demand, on that amount.

95.3

For the purposes of  this section , a supply of denatured alcohol to a person
who—

95.3.a

by reason of regulations under  section 92  is prohibited from receiving it
unless authorised to do so by or under the regulations, but

95.3.b

is not so authorised,

is treated as being a supply in contravention of those regulations.

95.4

A demand made for the purposes of  this section  is to be combined, as if
there had been a default of a kind mentioned in section 12 of FA 1994
(assessments to excise duty) with an assessment and notification under that
section of the amount of duty due in consequence of the demand.

##### Inspection of premises etc

96

96.1

An officer of Revenue and Customs may, at any reasonable time—

96.1.a

enter and inspect the premises of a person authorised by regulations under
section 92  to receive denatured alcohol,

96.1.b

inspect and examine any denatured alcohol on the premises, and

96.1.c

take samples of any denatured alcohol or of any goods containing denatured
alcohol (paying a reasonable price for each sample).

96.2

Subsection (1)  does not affect any other power conferred by the customs and
excise Acts.

##### Prohibition of use of denatured alcohol etc as beverage or medicine

97

97.1

It is an offence for a person—

97.1.a

to prepare, or attempt to prepare, denatured alcohol for use as a beverage or
as a mixture with a beverage;

97.1.b

to sell denatured alcohol (whether or not prepared as described in  paragraph
(a) ) as a beverage or mixed with a beverage;

97.1.c

to use any denatured alcohol or a derivative of it in the preparation of any
article capable of being used as a beverage;

97.1.d

to sell or possess any article capable of being used as described in
paragraph (c) , in the preparation of which denatured alcohol or any
derivative of it has been used;

97.1.e

except as permitted by the Commissioners and in accordance with any conditions
imposed by them—

97.1.e.i

to purify, or attempt to purify, denatured alcohol, or

97.1.e.ii

after denatured alcohol has once been used, to attempt to recover the spirit
or alcohol contained in it by distillation, condensation or in any other
manner.

97.2

Subsection (1)  is subject to  subsections (5)  and  (6) .

97.3

A person who commits an offence under  this section  is liable on summary
conviction to a penalty not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

97.4

Any denatured alcohol, or any article (including packaging or equipment), in
respect of which an offence under  this section  is committed is liable to
forfeiture.

97.5

No offence is committed under  this section  where a person uses denatured
alcohol or any derivative of it—

97.5.a

in the preparation for use as a medical article (as defined in  section 76 ),

97.5.b

in the making of anything sold or supplied in accordance with regulations made
by the Commissioners under  section 92 , or

97.5.c

in art or manufacture.

97.6

No offence is committed under  this section  where a person sells or possesses
anything that—

97.6.a

is permitted to be prepared or made, by reference to  paragraph (a)  or  (b)
of  subsection (5) , for a use described in that paragraph, and

97.6.b

is sold or possessed for that use.

97.7

In  this section , references to denatured alcohol include references to—

97.7.a

methanol, and

97.7.b

any mixture containing denatured alcohol or methanol.

#### Wholesaling of controlled alcoholic products

##### Definitions

98

98.1

This section  defines certain expressions used in  this Chapter .

98.2

A sale is of “controlled alcoholic products” if—

98.2.a

it is a sale of alcoholic products on which alcohol duty is charged under
this Part  at a rate greater than nil, and

98.2.b

the excise duty point for the alcoholic products falls at or before the time
of the sale.

98.3

Controlled alcoholic products are sold “wholesale” if—

98.3.a

the sale is of any quantity of the alcoholic products,

98.3.b

the seller is carrying on a trade or business and the sale is made in the
course of that trade or business,

98.3.c

the sale is to a buyer carrying on a trade or business, for sale or supply in
the course of that trade or business, and

98.3.d

the sale is not an incidental sale, a group sale or an excluded sale,

and a reference to buying controlled alcoholic products wholesale is to be
read accordingly.

98.4

A sale is an “incidental sale” if—

98.4.a

the seller makes authorised retail sales of alcoholic products of any
description, and

98.4.b

the sale is incidental to those sales.

98.5

A sale is an “authorised retail sale” if it is made by retail under and in
accordance with a licence or other authorisation under an enactment regulating
the sale and supply of alcohol.

98.6

A sale is a “group sale” if the seller and the buyer are both bodies corporate
which are members of the same group (see  section 106 ).

98.7

A sale is an “excluded sale” if it is of a description specified by or under
regulations made by the Commissioners.

98.8

“ Controlled activity ” means—

98.8.a

selling controlled alcoholic products wholesale,

98.8.b

offering or exposing controlled alcoholic products for sale in circumstances
in which the sale (if made) would be a wholesale sale, or

98.8.c

arranging in the course of a trade or business for controlled alcoholic
products to be sold wholesale, or offered or exposed for sale in circumstances
in which the sale (if made) would be a wholesale sale.

98.9

“ UK person ” means a person who is UK-established for the purposes of value
added tax (see paragraph 1(10) of Schedule 1 to VATA 1994).

98.10

“ Enactment ” includes an enactment contained in—

98.10.a

an Act of the Scottish Parliament;

98.10.b

an Act or Measure of Senedd Cymru;

98.10.c

Northern Ireland legislation.

98.11

References in  this Chapter  to the “alcohol wholesaling provisions” are
references to  this section  and  sections 99  to  106 , and  Schedule 10 .

##### Further provision relating to definitions

99

99.1

The Commissioners may by regulations make provision as to the cases in which
sales are, or are not, to be treated for the purposes of  this Chapter  as—

99.1.a

wholesale sales,

99.1.b

sales of controlled alcoholic products,

99.1.c

incidental sales,

99.1.d

authorised retail sales, or

99.1.e

group sales.

99.2

The Commissioners may by regulations make provision as to the cases in which a
person is, or is not, to be treated for the purposes of  this Chapter  as
carrying on a controlled activity by virtue of  section 98 (8) (b)  or  (c) .

##### Approval to carry on controlled activity

100

100.1

A UK person may not carry on a controlled activity otherwise than in
accordance with an approval given by the Commissioners under  this section .

100.2

The Commissioners may approve a person under  this section  to carry on a
controlled activity only if they are satisfied that the person is a fit and
proper person to carry on the activity.

100.3

The Commissioners may approve a person under  this section  to carry on a
controlled activity for such period as they think fit.

100.4

An approval may be given subject to the conditions or restrictions (if any)—

100.4.a

specified by the Commissioners in a notice published by them;

100.4.b

specified by or under regulations made by them;

100.4.c

imposed by them in a particular case.

100.5

The conditions or restrictions may include conditions or restrictions
requiring the controlled activity to be carried on only at or from premises
specified or approved by the Commissioners.

100.6

The Commissioners may at any time revoke or vary the terms of an approval
under  this section .

100.7

In  this Chapter  “ approved wholesaler ” means a person approved under  this
section  to carry on a controlled activity.

##### The register of approved wholesalers

101

101.1

The Commissioners must maintain a register of approved wholesalers.

101.2

The register is to contain such information relating to approved wholesalers
as the Commissioners consider appropriate.

101.3

The Commissioners may make publicly available such information contained in
the register as they consider necessary to enable those who deal with a person
who carries on a controlled activity to determine whether the person in
question is an approved wholesaler for the purposes of that activity.

101.4

The information may be made available by such means as the Commissioners
consider appropriate.

##### Regulations relating to approval, registration and controlled activities

102

102.1

The Commissioners may by regulations make provision—

102.1.a

regulating the approval and registration of persons under the alcohol
wholesaling provisions,

102.1.b

regulating the variation or revocation of any such approval or registration or
of any condition or restriction to which such an approval or registration is
subject,

102.1.c

about the register maintained under  section 101 ,

102.1.d

regulating the carrying on of controlled activities, and

102.1.e

imposing obligations on approved wholesalers.

102.2

The regulations may, in particular, make provision—

102.2.a

requiring applications, and other communications with the Commissioners, to be
made electronically;

102.2.b

as to the procedure for the approval and registration of bodies corporate
which are members of the same group and for members of such a group to be
jointly and severally liable for any penalties imposed under—

102.2.b.i

the regulations, or

102.2.b.ii

Schedule 10 ;

102.2.c

requiring approved wholesalers to keep and make available for inspection such
records relating to controlled activities as may be specified by or under the
regulations;

102.2.d

conferring powers on an officer of Revenue and Customs to inspect, copy or
remove for a reasonable period those records;

102.2.e

imposing a penalty of an amount specified by the regulations (which must not
exceed £1,000) for a contravention of—

102.2.e.i

the regulations, or

102.2.e.ii

any condition or restriction imposed under the alcohol wholesaling provisions;

102.2.f

for the assessment and recovery of such a penalty;

102.2.g

for alcoholic products (whether or not charged with any duty and whether or
not that duty has been paid) to be subject to forfeiture for a contravention
of—

102.2.g.i

the alcohol wholesaling provisions or the regulations made under  this section
, or

102.2.g.ii

any condition or restriction imposed under the alcohol wholesaling provisions.

##### Restriction on buying controlled alcoholic products wholesale

103

103.1

A person may not—

103.1.a

buy controlled alcoholic products wholesale from a UK person, unless the
person is an approved wholesaler in relation to the sale, or

103.1.b

buy relevant alcoholic products from an Isle of Man person, unless the person
is an Isle of Man approved wholesaler.

103.2

In  this section  and in  section 104 (4) —

103.2.a

“ Isle of Man person ” means a person who is established in the Isle of Man
for the purposes of value added tax under any provision of the law in force in
the Isle of Man corresponding to paragraph 1(10) of Schedule 1 to VATA 1994;

103.2.b

“ Isle of Man approved wholesaler ” means an Isle of Man person who is
approved under any provision of the law in force in the Isle of Man
corresponding to  section 100 ;

103.2.c

“ relevant alcoholic products ” means alcoholic products which, if they had
been produced in the United Kingdom, would have been charged with alcohol duty
under  this Part  at a rate greater than nil.

##### Offences

104

104.1

A person who contravenes  section 100 (1)  by selling controlled alcoholic
products wholesale commits an offence if the person knows or has reasonable
grounds to suspect that—

104.1.a

the buyer is carrying on a trade or business, and

104.1.b

the alcoholic products are for sale or supply in the course of that trade or
business.

104.2

A person who contravenes  section 100 (1)  by offering or exposing controlled
alcoholic products for sale in circumstances in which the sale (if made) would
be a wholesale sale commits an offence if the person intends to make a
wholesale sale of the alcoholic products.

104.3

A person who contravenes  section 100 (1)  by arranging in the course of a
trade or business for controlled alcoholic products to be sold wholesale, or
offered or exposed for sale in circumstances in which the sale (if made) would
be a wholesale sale, commits an offence if the person intends to arrange for
the alcoholic products to be sold wholesale.

104.4

A person who contravenes  section 103  commits an offence if the person knows
or has reasonable grounds to suspect that—

104.4.a

the UK person from whom the controlled alcoholic products are bought is not an
approved wholesaler in relation to the sale, or

104.4.b

the Isle of Man person from whom the relevant alcoholic products are bought is
not an Isle of Man approved wholesaler in relation to the sale.

104.5

A person who commits an offence under  this section  is liable on summary
conviction—

104.5.a

in England and Wales to—

104.5.a.i

imprisonment for a term not exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’
court,

104.5.a.ii

a fine, or

104.5.a.iii

both,

104.5.b

in Scotland to—

104.5.b.i

imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months,

104.5.b.ii

a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum, or

104.5.b.iii

both, and

104.5.c

in Northern Ireland to—

104.5.c.i

imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months,

104.5.c.ii

a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum, or

104.5.c.iii

both.

104.6

A person who commits an offence under  this section  is liable on conviction
on indictment to—

104.6.a

imprisonment for a period not exceeding 7 years,

104.6.b

a fine, or

104.6.c

both.

##### Penalties

105

Schedule 10  contains provision about penalties for contraventions of the
alcohol wholesaling provisions.

##### Groups

106

106.1

Two or more bodies corporate are members of a group for the purposes of the
alcohol wholesaling provisions if each is established or has a fixed
establishment in the United Kingdom and—

106.1.a

one of them controls each of the others,

106.1.b

one person (whether a body corporate or an individual) controls all of them,
or

106.1.c

two or more individuals carrying on a business in partnership control all of
them.

106.2

For the purposes of  this section , a body corporate is to be taken to control
another body corporate if—

106.2.a

it is empowered by or under an enactment to control that body’s activities, or

106.2.b

it is that body’s holding company within the meaning of section 1159 of, and
Schedule 6 to, the Companies Act 2006.

106.3

For the purposes of  this section —

106.3.a

an individual or individuals are to be taken to control a body corporate if
the individual or individuals (were the individual or individuals a company)
would be that body’s holding company within the meaning of section 1159 of,
and Schedule 6 to, the Companies Act 2006 (meaning of “subsidiary” etc), and

106.3.b

a body corporate is established or has a fixed establishment in the United
Kingdom if it is so established or has such an establishment for the purposes
of value added tax.

##### Index of defined expressions: 

107

The following Table sets out expressions defined or explained for the purposes
of  this Chapter —

Expression Provision alcohol wholesaling provisions section 98 (11) approved
wholesaler section 100 (7) authorised retail sale section 98 (5) controlled
activity section 98 (8) enactment section 98 (10) group (in relation to bodies
corporate) section 106 (1) group sale section 98 (6) incidental sale section
98 (4) Isle of Man person and Isle of Man approved wholesaler section 103 (2)
(a)  and  (b) relevant alcoholic products (for the purposes of  sections 103
and  104 (4) ) section 103 (2) (c) sale of controlled alcoholic products
section 98 (2) UK person section 98 (9) wholesale section 98 (3)

#### Supplementary

##### Reviews and appeals

108

Schedule 11  makes provision about reviews and appeals.

##### Forfeiture: supplementary provision

109

109.1

An officer of Revenue and Customs may destroy, break up or spill anything
seized as liable to forfeiture under any provision of this Part.

109.2

Subsection (1) does not affect any other provision of, or power conferred by,
the customs and excise Acts.

##### Removal of goods: application of section 95 of CEMA 1979

110

110.1

Section 95 of CEMA 1979 (deficiency in goods occurring in course of removal
from warehouse without payment of duty) is amended as follows.

110.2

After subsection (1) insert—

110.2.1A

Subsection (1) applies in relation to goods that are alcoholic products as if
references, in that subsection and in section 94, to a “warehouse” included
references to premises in respect of which a person is authorised, under
section 82 of the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023, to hold alcoholic products without
payment of duty (and references to “warehoused” are to be construed
accordingly).

110.2.1B

Subsection (1) applies (as modified by subsection (1A)) in relation to
alcoholic products on which alcohol duty has been remitted as it applies to
alcoholic products lawfully permitted to be taken from premises as mentioned
in that subsection.

110.3

In subsection (2), in the words before paragraph (a), after “subsection (1)”
insert  “, (1A) or (1B)” .

##### Drawback

111

111.1

This section  applies where drawback of alcohol duty is allowable, under
regulations made under section 60A of CEMA 1979 (power to make regulations
about stores) or section 2 of F(No. 2)A 1992 (power to provide for drawback of
excise duty), to a person who produces alcoholic products in accordance with
an approval under  section 82  (“the producer”).

111.2

Subject to the conditions (if any) that the Commissioners impose, drawback of
alcohol duty may be set against any amount to which the producer is chargeable
in respect of alcohol duty (and any reference in CEMA 1979 to drawback payable
is to be construed in accordance with  this section ).

##### Duty stamps

112

Schedule 12  makes provision about duty stamps.

#### repeals, further amendments and transitional provisions

##### Repeals and further amendments

###### Repeals

113

113.1

The Alcoholic Liquor Duties Act 1979 is repealed.

113.2

The following sections of FA 1995 are repealed—

113.2.a

section 4 (alcoholic ingredients relief);

113.2.b

section 5 (denatured alcohol).

###### Minor and consequential amendments

114

Schedule 13  makes minor and consequential amendments relating to  this Part .

##### Transitional provision

###### Temporary provision: wine

115

115.1

Wine of an alcoholic strength of at least 11.5% but not exceeding 14.5% is
treated, for the purposes of the charge to alcohol duty, as if it were of an
alcoholic strength of 12.5%.

115.2

This section expires at the end of the period of 18 months beginning with the
day on which  section 48  (rates) comes into force.

###### Temporary provision: cider

116

Alcohol duty is not charged on cider which is produced—

116.a

at a time before  section 82  (approvals) comes into force, and

116.b

by a person who, at that time, is exempt from the requirement to register
under section 62 of ALDA 1979 by reason of an order made (or having effect as
if made) under subsection (3) of that section.

#### Final provisions

##### Interpretation of 

117

117.1

The following Table sets out expressions defined or explained in  this Part
for general purposes—

Expression Provision alcohol section 45 (5) alcoholic products section 44 (1)
and  (2) alcoholic strength section 45 (1) beer Schedule 6 , paragraph 3 cider
Schedule 6 ,  paragraph 5 denatured alcohol section 90 excise duty point
section 49 other fermented product Schedule 6 ,  paragraph 12 qualifying
draught product section 51 (1) spirits Schedule 6 ,  paragraph 1 wine Schedule
6 ,  paragraph 11

117.2

This Part  is to be construed as one with the Customs and Excise Acts 1979.

117.3

Any expression used in this Act or in any instrument made under this Act to
which a meaning is given by any other Act included in the Customs and Excise
Acts 1979 has, except where the context otherwise requires, the same meaning
in this Act or any such instrument as in that Act.

##### Regulations: supplementary and general

118

118.1

The Commissioners may by regulations make provision supplementing provision
made in relation to alcohol duty by or under this Part or any other enactment.

118.2

A power to make regulations under any provision of  this Part  may be
exercised so as to make different provision for different purposes or areas.

118.3

A power to make regulations under any provision of  this Part  includes power
to make—

118.3.a

provision which applies generally or only for specified cases or purposes;

118.3.b

provision conferring a discretion on a specified person to do anything under,
or for the purposes of, the regulations;

118.3.c

provision by reference to things specified in a notice published in accordance
with the regulations;

118.3.d

consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional or saving provision.

118.4

Regulations under  this Part  are to be made by statutory instrument.

118.5

This section does not apply to regulations under  section 120 .

##### Regulations: procedure

119

119.1

A statutory instrument containing any regulations made under  section 46 (a)
or section  51 (5)  must be laid before the House of Commons, and, unless
approved by that House before the end of the period of 28 days beginning with
the date on which the instrument is made, ceases to have effect at the end of
that period.

119.2

The fact that a statutory instrument ceases to have effect as a result of
subsection (1)  does not affect—

119.2.a

anything previously done under the instrument, or

119.2.b

the making of a new statutory instrument.

119.3

In calculating the period for the purposes of  subsection (1) , no account is
to be taken of any time—

119.3.a

during which Parliament is dissolved or prorogued, or

119.3.b

during which the House of Commons is adjourned for more than 4 days.

119.4

A statutory instrument containing (whether alone or with other provision) any
regulations made under  paragraph 2  of  Schedule 12  may not be made unless a
draft of the instrument has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of,
the House of Commons.

119.5

A statutory instrument containing regulations made under  this Part , other
than regulations in respect of which  subsection (1)  or  subsection (4)
applies, is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of the House of
Commons.

119.6

A statutory instrument containing regulations to which  subsection (1)
applies may also include regulations relating to alcohol duty under any other
provision of the customs and excise Acts (including any provision of  this
Part ) if the Parliamentary procedure applicable to a statutory instrument
containing regulations under the other provision does not require House of
Commons approval.

119.7

Where regulations are included as mentioned in  subsection (6) , the procedure
applicable to the statutory instrument is the procedure mentioned in
subsection (1)  (and not the procedure mentioned in  subsection (6) ).

119.8

If—

119.8.a

a statutory instrument contains regulations under any provision of  this Part
(other than regulations in respect of which  subsection (1)  or  subsection
(4)  applies) and regulations relating to alcohol duty under any other
provision of the customs and excise Acts, and

119.8.b

the Parliamentary procedure applicable to a statutory instrument containing
provision under the other provision does not require House of Commons
approval,

the only Parliamentary procedure applicable to a statutory instrument
mentioned in  paragraph (a)  is that given by  this section .

119.9

For the purposes of  subsection (6)  and  subsection (8)  the Parliamentary
procedure applicable to a statutory instrument requires House of Commons
approval if, as a condition of its continuing to have effect or its making,
the House of Commons has to approve the statutory instrument or a draft of it.

119.10

This section  does not apply to regulations under  section 120 .

##### Commencement

120

120.1

The following provisions of  this Part  come into force on the day on which
this Act is passed—

120.1.a

this Chapter , and

120.1.b

any other provision of  this Part  so far as it confers a power to make
regulations.

120.2

The other provisions of  this Part  (so far as not brought into force by
subsection (1) ) come into force on such day or days as the Commissioners may
by regulations appoint.

120.3

Different days may be appointed for different purposes or different areas.

120.4

The Commissioners may by regulations make consequential, supplementary,
incidental, transitional or saving provision in connection with the coming
into force of any provision of  this Part .

120.5

The power to make regulations under  subsection (4) —

120.5.a

may be exercised so as to make different provision for different purposes or
areas, and

120.5.b

includes power to make provision of a kind described in  section 118 (3) (a)
to  (c) .

120.6

Regulations under  this section  are to be made by statutory instrument.

### Multinational top-up tax

#### Introduction and charge

##### Introduction to multinational top-up tax

121

121.1

The purpose of  this Part  is to implement the provisions of the Pillar Two
rules relating to top-up tax under the IIR (within the meaning of those
rules).

121.2

For that purpose,  this Part  makes provision for a tax payable in respect of
members of multinational groups who are located in territories (outside the
United Kingdom) where their rate of tax (as determined in accordance with
this Part ) is less than 15%.

121.3

The tax is to be known as “ multinational top-up tax ”.

121.4

Sections 122  to  124  set out the charge to multinational top-up tax and
describe how it is to be calculated.

121.5

Chapter 2  of  this Part —

121.5.a

sets out the meaning of “multinational group”;

121.5.b

describes who the members of such a group are;

121.5.c

identifies the ultimate parent of such a group;

121.5.d

limits the application of  this Part  to multinational groups with an annual
revenue of at least 750 million euros and that have at least one member in the
United Kingdom (such a group is referred to in  this Part  as “qualifying”);

121.5.e

sets out how to determine which members of a multinational group (“responsible
members”) are responsible for paying the tax and which members they are
responsible for.

##### Chargeable persons

122

122.1

A person is chargeable to multinational top-up tax for an accounting period of
a multinational group if the group is a qualifying multinational group in that
period and—

122.1.a

the person—

122.1.a.i

is a responsible member of the multinational group at any time in that period,

122.1.a.ii

is a body corporate or a partnership  ..., and

122.1.a.iii

is located in the United Kingdom, or

122.1.b

the person is chargeable to tax in respect of an entity that is a responsible
member of the multinational group at any time in that period.

122.2

A person is chargeable to tax in respect of a responsible member of a
multinational group if—

122.2.a

the profits of the responsible member would, on the relevant assumptions, be
the profits of the person for the purposes of income tax or corporation tax,

122.2.b

the responsible member is located in the United Kingdom, and

122.2.c

the responsible member is not—

122.2.c.i

a body corporate, or

122.2.c.ii

a partnership  ....

122.3

The relevant assumptions are—

122.3.a

that the responsible member has profits that are chargeable to income tax or
corporation tax, and

122.3.b

that the person is resident in the United Kingdom for the purposes of that
tax.

122.4

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

122.5

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

122.6

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

122.7

Where more than one person is chargeable to tax in relation to the same
responsible member of a qualifying multinational group as a result of the
application of  subsection (2) , each of those persons is jointly and
severally liable to multinational top-up tax.

##### Amount charged by reference to “top-up amounts”

123

Where a person is chargeable to multinational top-up tax for an accounting
period as a responsible member of a qualifying multinational group or in
respect of a responsible member of a qualifying multinational group, the
amount (if any) the person must pay is determined as follows—

Step 1 Determine which, if any, of the multinational group’s members that the
responsible member is responsible for have top-up amounts or additional top-up
amounts for that period and the extent of those amounts. Step 2 Determine how
much of each of those amounts is to be attributed to the responsible member.
Step 3 Add together the amounts attributed to the responsible member. Step 4
Convert the result of Step 3 (which in accordance with section 254 will be
expressed in the CFS currency) to sterling using the average exchange rate for
the accounting period (if the CFS currency is not sterling).

##### How to calculate top-up amounts and attribute them

124

124.1

Generally, a member of a multinational group in a territory will have a top-up
amount for an accounting period if—

124.1.a

the effective tax rate of the members of the group in that territory for that
period is less than 15%, and

124.1.b

that member has profits for that period.

124.2

Chapter 3  of  this Part  sets out how to determine the effective tax rate of
the members of a multinational group in a territory by reference to the
profits of, and the taxes payable by, those members in that territory.

124.3

Chapter 4  of  this Part  sets out how to calculate the profits of members of
a multinational group.

124.4

Chapter 5  of  this Part  sets out—

124.4.a

which taxes (referred to in  this Part  as “covered taxes”) are to be
considered in determining the effective tax rate of those members, and

124.4.b

how to determine the amount of covered taxes allocated to those members.

124.5

Chapter 6  of  this Part  sets out how to use the effective tax rate and
profits of the members of a multinational group to determine the top-up
amounts of those members.

124.6

Chapter 7  of  this Part  sets out how to attribute those top-up amounts to a
responsible member of the group.

124.7

Chapter 8  of  this Part  contains provisions about—

124.7.a

additional top-up amounts, and

124.7.b

further adjustments that may need to be made (including provision about
adjustments for restructuring of multinational groups).

124.8

Chapter 9  of  this Part  sets out special provision for investment entities,
joint venture groups and minority owned members (including provision that
applies to those entities instead of provision in the previous Chapters).

124.9

Chapter 10  of  this Part  contains definitions and other provisions relevant
to the calculations and other determinations to be made for the purposes of
multinational top-up tax and  Chapter 11  contains general provision.

##### Administration of multinational top-up tax

125

Schedule 14  makes provision for—

125.a

information returns which must be made in respect of multinational groups,

125.b

assessments to multinational top-up tax,

125.c

penalties, and

125.d

other administrative matters.

#### Qualifying multinational groups and their members

##### Multinational groups

###### Meaning of “multinational group” and “ultimate parent”

126

126.1

References in  this Part  to a multinational group are to a consolidated group
where at least one of the members of that group is not located in the same
territory as the others.

126.2

A “ consolidated group ” means the following entities (which are its members)—

126.2.a

an entity (the “ultimate parent”)—

126.2.a.i

in which no other entity has a controlling interest, and

126.2.a.ii

which has a controlling interest in other entities, and

126.2.b

the entities whose assets, liabilities, income, expenses and cash flows—

126.2.b.i

are included in the consolidated financial statements of the ultimate parent,
or

126.2.b.ii

are not included in those statements only because of an exclusion on size or
materiality grounds or on the grounds that the entity in question is held for
sale.

###### Excluded entities

127

127.1

For the purposes of  this Part , excluded entities are to be treated as not
being members of a multinational group.

127.2

But  subsection (1)  does not apply for the purposes of the following
provisions—

127.2.a

section 126  (and accordingly an excluded entity that is the ultimate parent
of multinational group remains the ultimate parent of that group),

127.2.b

this section , and

127.2.c

section 129  (determining whether a multinational group is qualifying).

127.3

The following are excluded entities—

127.3.a

a governmental entity;

127.3.b

an international organisation;

127.3.c

a pension fund;

127.3.d

a non-profit organisation;

127.3.e

a qualifying non-profit subsidiary;

127.3.f

a qualifying service entity;

127.3.g

a qualifying exempt income entity.

127.4

The following are also excluded entities if they are the ultimate parent of a
multinational group, or would be but for the fact they do not produce
consolidated financial statements that include assets, liabilities, income
expenses and cash flows of entities in which they have ownership interests—

127.4.a

an investment fund,

127.4.b

a UK REIT, or

127.4.c

an overseas REIT equivalent.

127.5

An entity is a qualifying non-profit subsidiary in an accounting period if—

127.5.a

it is 100% owned by one or more entities that are non-profit organisations,

127.5.b

the revenue (see section 129(5)) of the multinational group of which the
entity is a member, excluding the revenues of each member that is a non-profit
organisation, a qualifying service entity or a qualifying exempt income
entity—

127.5.b.i

would not exceed the threshold set out in section 129(4), and

127.5.b.ii

is less than 25% of the total revenue of the group, and

127.5.c

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

127.5.d

no election under  subsection (8)  is in force in relation to the entity.

127.6

An entity is a qualifying service entity if—

127.6.a

it is 95% owned by one or more qualifying excluded entities,

127.6.b

either—

127.6.b.i

the entity only carries out activities that are ancillary to the activities of
those owners, or

127.6.b.ii

all, or almost all, of its activities, ignoring activities falling within
sub-paragraph (i) , consist of the holding of assets or the investment of
funds for the benefit of those owners, and

127.6.c

no election under  subsection (8)  is in force in relation to the entity.

127.7

An entity is a qualifying exempt income entity if—

127.7.a

it is 85% owned by one or more qualifying excluded entities,

127.7.b

almost all of the entity’s income is excluded dividends or excluded equity
gains (or a mixture of both), and

127.7.c

no election under  subsection (8)  is in force in relation to the entity.

127.8

The filing member of a multinational group (see  paragraph 2  of  Schedule 14
) may make an election that a member of that group that would otherwise be an
excluded entity as a result of  subsection (5) ,  (6)  or  (7)  is not to be
an excluded entity.

127.9

Schedule 15  makes provision about elections under  this Part .

127.10

Paragraph  1  of that Schedule (long term elections) applies to an election
under  subsection (8) .

127.11

For the purposes of  subsection (5) , the reference to an entity being 100%
owned by one or more entities that are non-profit organisations is to those
entities together having that percentage of ownership interest in that entity.

127.12

For the purposes of  subsections (6)  and  (7) —

127.12.a

despite  section 232 (3)  (permanent establishments treated as distinct from
main entity), the conditions in  subsection (6) (b)  and  (7) (b)  are only
met in relation to a permanent establishment or a main entity if the
conditions are met by the main entity and all of its permanent establishments
taken together as if they were a single entity;

127.12.b

an excluded entity is “qualifying” if it is not a   pension services   entity,
and

127.12.c

references to an entity being 95% or 85% owned by qualifying excluded entities
are to those entities together having at least that percentage of the
ownership interests in that entity (see  section 245  for how to calculate
ownership interests in excluded entities).

##### Responsible members

###### Responsible members

128

128.1

The ultimate parent of a multinational group is a responsible member of that
group if it is subject to Pillar Two IIR tax.

128.2

An ultimate parent that is a responsible member of a multinational group is
responsible for all of   the members of the group   that are not located in
the territory   the ultimate parent   is located in.

128.3

An intermediate parent member of a multinational group (see  section 237 (2) )
that is located in a Pillar Two territory is a responsible member of that
group if it is subject to Pillar Two IIR tax and—

128.3.a

no intermediate parent member of that group that is subject to Pillar Two IIR
tax has a controlling interest in it,

128.3.b

the ultimate parent is not subject to Pillar Two IIR tax, and

128.3.c

at least one member of the group in which it has an ownership interest, or a
permanent establishment for which it is the main entity, has a top-up amount
or an additional top-up amount.

128.4

Such an intermediate parent member is responsible for   —

128.4.a

every permanent establishment for which it is the main entity, and

128.4.b

all of the members of the group it has an ownership interest in that are not
located in the territory it is located in.

128.5

A partially-owned parent member of a multinational group (see  section 237 (1)
) that is located in a Pillar Two territory is a responsible member if it is
subject to Pillar Two IIR tax and—

128.5.a

it is not wholly owned by another partially-owned parent member of that group
that is subject to Pillar Two IIR tax, and

128.5.b

at least one member of the group in which it has an ownership interest, or a
permanent establishment for which it is the main entity, has a top-up amount
or an additional top-up amount.

128.6

Such a partially owned parent member is responsible for   —

128.6.a

every permanent establishment for which it is the main entity, and

128.6.b

all of the members of the group it has an ownership interest in that are not
located in the same territory it is located in.

128.7

For the purposes of  this Part  an entity is subject to Pillar Two IIR tax
for an accounting period  if—

128.7.a

  the period commences on or after 31 December 2023 and  the entity is located
in the United Kingdom and is not an excluded entity, or

128.7.b

the entity—

128.7.b.i

is located in another Pillar Two territory in which a tax equivalent to
multinational top-up tax is in force  for the period , and

128.7.b.ii

is not excluded from the application of that tax as a result of provision
equivalent to  section 127 .

##### Qualifying multinational groups

###### Qualifying multinational groups

129

129.1

For the purposes of  this Part , a multinational group is “qualifying” in an
accounting period if conditions A and B are met.

129.2

Condition A is that the group’s members have revenue that exceeds the
threshold set out in  subsection (4)  in at least 2 accounting periods of the
previous 4 accounting periods.

129.3

Condition B is that at least one of the group’s members is located in the
United Kingdom.

129.4

The threshold for an accounting period is the amount given by multiplying 750
million euros by the amount given by dividing the number of days in the
accounting period by 365.

129.5

For the purposes of  this section , and  section 127 (5) , the revenue of the
members of a multinational group for a period is to be determined by reference
to the consolidated financial statements of the ultimate parent for that
period.

###### Change in composition of multinational group

130

130.1

This section  applies for the purpose of determining whether condition A in
section 129 (2)  is met by a multinational group in an accounting period (“
the qualifying period ”) where its composition has changed—

130.1.a

in that period, or

130.1.b

during the previous 4 accounting periods (“the testing period”).

130.2

Reference in  subsection (1)  to a change in the composition of a
multinational group includes its formation as a result of the acquisition by
one entity of ownership interests in another.

130.3

Where a member of the multinational group was not a member of any consolidated
group in one or more of the accounting periods in the testing period—

130.3.a

its revenues for those accounting periods are to be determined by reference to
its financial statements or any consolidated financial statements in which its
revenue is included (and, if necessary, apportioned on a just and reasonable
basis to those accounting periods), and

130.3.b

those revenues are to be treated as forming part of the revenues of the
multinational group in those periods (whether or not the group existed in
those periods).

130.4

Where a multinational group is the result of a merger of two or more
consolidated groups in the qualifying period or the testing period, for each
accounting period of those periods in which they were separate groups, add
together the revenues of each consolidated group for that period (determined
by reference to the consolidated financial statements of the ultimate parent
of each group and if necessary, apportioned on a just and reasonable basis to
the accounting period of the merged group) to determine whether the threshold
in  section 129 (4)  is met for that period.

130.5

For the purposes of  this section  “ merger ” means any arrangement that
results in   all, or substantially all, of the members of  two or more
consolidated groups becoming   members of  a single consolidated group.

###### Whether de-merged groups meet the revenue threshold

131

131.1

Where a multinational group is the result of a qualifying de-merger (“a de-
merged group”), section 129 has effect in relation to that group for its first
accounting period that ends after the de-merger, and in the 3 accounting
periods that follow it as if for subsection (2) there were substituted—

131.1.2

A de-merged group meets condition A  ...—

131.1.2.a

in its first accounting period that ends after the de-merger, if its members
have revenue for that period that exceeds the threshold set out in  section
129 (4) , and

131.1.2.b

in any of the second to fourth accounting periods ending after the de-merger,
if its members have revenue that exceeds the threshold set out in that section
in any two of the following periods—

131.1.2.b.i

that period;

131.1.2.b.ii

any of the accounting periods that precede that period and end after the de-
merger.

131.2

In this section “ qualifying de-merger ” means the separation of members of a
relevant multinational group into two or more consolidated groups in an
accounting period of the relevant multinational group, such that those members
cease to all be consolidated by the same ultimate parent.

131.3

A multinational group is relevant in an accounting period if—

131.3.a

it meets condition A in section 129(2) for that period (revenue threshold
exceeded in at least 2 of previous 4 accounting periods), and

131.3.b

Pillar Two rules apply to any member of the group for that period.

#### Effective tax rate of members of a multinational group in a territory

##### Effective tax rate

132

132.1

The effective tax rate of the standard members of a multinational group in a
territory for an accounting period is determined as follows—

Step 1 Determine, in accordance with  Chapter 4 , the adjusted profits for
that period of each standard member of that group in that territory. Step 2
Subtract the sum of the losses of those members of the group that made a loss
in that period from the sum of the profits of those members of the group that
made a profit in that period. Step 3 If the result of Step 2 is nil or less,
the effective tax rate is to be treated as 15%. Otherwise, proceed to Step 4.
Step 4 Determine the combined covered tax balance for the standard members of
the group in that territory (which may be negative). Step 5 If that balance is
nil the effective tax rate is 0%. Otherwise, proceed to Step 6. Step 6 Divide
the combined covered tax balance by the result of Step 2. Step 7 Except where
Step 3 or 5 applies, the effective tax rate of the standard members of that
group is X% where X (which will be negative if the combined covered tax
balance is negative) is the result of Step 6 multiplied by 100.

132.2

The combined covered tax balance for standard members of a multinational group
in a territory is—

132.2.a

where those members only have positive covered tax balances (see  Chapter 5 ),
the sum of those balances,

132.2.b

where those members only have negative covered tax balances (see that
Chapter), the sum of those balances expressed as a negative number, or

132.2.c

where those members have a mixture of positive covered tax balances and
negative covered tax balances, the amount (which may be positive or negative)
given by subtracting the sum of those negative covered tax balances from the
sum of those positive covered tax balances.

Section   174   contains provision about the determination of covered tax
balances of members of multinational groups.

132.3

For the purposes of  this Part —

132.3.a

a member of a multinational group is a “standard member” if it is not—

132.3.a.i

an investment entity, or

132.3.a.ii

a minority owned member, and

132.3.b

a stateless member of a multinational group is to be treated as being the sole
member of the group located in a nominal territory.

#### Calculation of adjusted profits of members of a multinational group

##### Adjusted profits of a member of a multinational group

###### Adjusted profits of a member of a multinational group

133

133.1

For the purposes of  this Part , references to the adjusted profits of a
member of a multinational group are to the underlying profits of that member
adjusted in accordance with this Chapter and (to the extent applicable)
Chapter 8 .

133.2

Sections 134  to  137  set out how to determine the underlying profits.

133.3

Sections 138  to  158  set out various adjustments that may need to be made to
those profits.

133.4

Sections 159  and  160  set out adjustments to be made in relation to members
that are permanent establishments.

133.5

Sections 161  to  164  make provision for elections for certain matters to be
calculated in an alternative manner.

133.6

Sections  167  to  171  set out adjustments in relation to transparent and
hybrid entities and entities subject to a “qualifying dividend regime”.

133.7

Other provisions of  this Part  may require further adjustments of underlying
profits, including provision in—

133.7.a

Chapter 9  (investment entities), and

133.7.b

Schedule 16  (transitional provision).

###### Underlying profits as determined for statements of ultimate parent

134

134.1

The normal rule is that the underlying profits of a member of a multinational
group, other than a member that is a permanent establishment, are the member’s
profits as they would be determined for that member in preparing consolidated
financial statements for the ultimate parent.

134.2

But those profits may instead be determined on the basis of an alternative
accounting standard, and information in the separate financial accounts of the
member, if all of the conditions in  subsection (3)  are met.

134.3

Those conditions are that—

134.3.a

it is not reasonably practicable to determine those profits on the basis of
the accounting standard used in the preparation of the consolidated financial
statements of the ultimate parent,

134.3.b

the alternative accounting standard is an acceptable accounting standard or an
authorised accounting standard,

134.3.c

the alternative accounting standard is that used for the financial accounts of
the member, and

134.3.d

the information in those accounts is reliable.

134.4

Where an alternative accounting standard is used and an amount relevant to the
underlying profits of a member of a multinational group is recorded in a
currency other than the currency used for the consolidated financial
statements of the ultimate parent, that amount is to be converted to that
currency for the purposes of  this Part .

134.5

Subsection (6)  applies where the application of a particular policy of the
alternative accounting standard in the determination of the profits of the
member results in a significant accounting standard difference that would not
arise if the accounting standard of the ultimate parent had been applied.

134.6

The underlying profits are to be adjusted to eliminate that difference (as if
the accounting standard of the ultimate parent had been applied).

134.7

Information in the financial accounts of the member is “reliable” if an
auditor applying the generally accepted auditing standards of a relevant
territory would reasonably conclude the member has in place such processes
relating to their preparation as are likely to make the information in the
financial accounts a fair and accurate description of the income, expenses,
assets and liabilities of that member.

134.8

For the purposes of  subsection (7) , the following are relevant territories—

134.8.a

the territory in which the member is located;

134.8.b

the territory in which the ultimate parent is located;

134.8.c

if the member is a flow-through entity (see  section 168 (2) ) that is a
stateless entity, the territory in which it was created.

134.9

For the purposes of this section, reference to a “significant accounting
standard difference” is to a difference of more than 1 million euros between
the treatment of an amount in the financial accounts of a member of a
multinational group and the consolidated financial statements of the ultimate
parent that is not eliminated over time.

###### Underlying profits of permanent establishments

135

135.1

The underlying profits of a member of a multinational group that is a
permanent establishment are the member’s profits—

135.1.a

if the member has separate financial accounts, as reflected in those accounts,
and

135.1.b

if not, as reflected in the underlying profits accounts of the main entity,
attributed between the permanent establishment and the main entity in
accordance with  section 159 .

135.2

If the member is a permanent establishment falling within  paragraph (d)  of
section 232 (2)  (income of permanent establishment exempt from tax in
territory of main entity) the member’s underlying profits are determined only
by reference to its relevant income and relevant expenses.

135.3

For the purposes of  subsection (2) —

135.3.a

the relevant income of the member is the income of the member that is exempted
from tax in the territory where the main entity is located that is
attributable to operations carried out outside the territory the main entity
is located in, and

135.3.b

the relevant expenses of the member are such of its expenses as are
attributable to those operations and are not deducted for tax purposes in the
territory of the main entity.

135.4

Profits (as determined in accordance with this Part) of a permanent
establishment are not to be taken into account in determining the adjusted
profits of the main entity, and vice versa.

135.5

But  subsection (4) —

135.5.a

does not apply to profits of a permanent establishment that are excluded from
its profits as a result of an adjustment under  section 159 , and

135.5.b

is subject to  section 160  (attribution of losses between permanent
establishment and main entity).

###### Underlying profits accounts

136

In this Part, reference to the “ underlying profits accounts ” of a member of
a multinational group is to the statements or accounts (which may in some
circumstances be hypothetical) that are the basis of the determination of the
member’s underlying profits for the purposes of this Part.

###### No amounts outside of profit and loss account to be included

137

Except as required by any other provision of this Part, amounts that are
recognised outside the profit and loss account in the underlying profits
accounts of a member of a multinational group are not to be reflected in the
underlying profits of that member.

##### Adjustments of underlying profits

###### Profits adjusted to be before tax

138

138.1

The underlying profits of a member of a multinational group for an accounting
period are to be adjusted by adding back any debit, and excluding any credit,
for tax expense amounts reflected in  ... those profits.

138.2

In  this Part  “ tax expense amount ” means an amount of tax expense
(including a deferred tax expense) in respect of—

138.2.a

a covered tax (whether or not the income to which the tax relates are excluded
from adjusted profits for the purposes of  this Part );

138.2.b

multinational top-up tax, or any tax equivalent to multinational top-up tax;

138.2.c

a qualifying domestic top-up tax (see  section 256 );

138.2.d

a qualifying undertaxed profits tax (see  section 257 );

138.2.e

taxes accrued by an insurance company in respect of returns to policyholders
to the extent that  section 152 (2)  applies in relation to those taxes;

138.2.f

a disqualified refundable imputation tax (see  section 253 ).

###### Profits adjusted to be profits before consolidation adjustments to eliminate intragroup transactions

139

139.1

The underlying profits of a member of a multinational group are to be adjusted
so that they include income, expenses, gains and losses arising from
transactions between that member and other members of that group.

139.2

Subsection (1)  is subject to—

139.2.a

section 137  (amounts outside profit and loss excluded), and

139.2.b

section 164  (where an election is made under that section to exclude profits
from intra-group transactions).

###### Profits adjusted to be profits before certain purchase accounting adjustments

140

140.1

The underlying profits of a member of a multinational group for an accounting
period are to be adjusted so that they do not reflect relevant share
acquisition adjustments.

140.2

“ Relevant share acquisition adjustment ” means a purchase accounting
adjustment to the consolidated financial statements of an ultimate parent of a
multinational group arising as a result of an entity becoming a member of the
group as a result of the acquisition of   ownership interests   in the entity
by an existing member of the group.

140.3

This section does not apply to a relevant share acquisition adjustment
resulting from an acquisition of   ownership interests   before 1 December
2021 if   the members of the group do not have sufficient records to identify
the adjustment made with reasonable accuracy.

###### General exclusion of dividends

141

141.1

The underlying profits of a member of a multinational group are to be adjusted
so as to exclude any excluded dividends received or accrued by that member.

141.2

“ Excluded dividends ” means—

141.2.a

a dividend or other distribution arising as a result of a qualifying interest
in a flow-through entity (see  section 168 ), or

141.2.b

any other dividend or other distribution arising as a result of a qualifying
interest in an entity, other than a dividend or other distribution falling
within  subsection (3) .

141.3

The following fall within  this subsection —

141.3.a

a dividend or other distribution arising as a result of a qualifying interest
that is a short-term portfolio holding;

141.3.b

a dividend or other distribution arising as a result of a qualifying interest
in an investment entity that is subject to an election under  section 214
(taxable distribution method election);

141.3.c

a dividend or other distribution made by a member of a multinational group if—

141.3.c.i

its recipient is a member of the same group, and

141.3.c.ii

payments in respect of the distribution (whether or not the distribution was
accounted for as a distribution at the time of payment) are treated as an
expense of the member that made it for the purposes of determining the
member’s underlying profits, or

141.3.d

any other dividend or other distribution to the extent it reflects debt rather
than a qualifying interest.

141.4

For the purposes of  subsection (2)  a qualifying interest in an entity held
by a member of a multinational group is a portfolio holding if, on the vesting
date of the distribution, the members of that group do not, between them, have
qualifying interests that entitle them to 10% or more of the entity’s—

141.4.a

profits,

141.4.b

capital,

141.4.c

reserves, and

141.4.d

voting rights.

141.5

A portfolio holding held by a member of a multinational group is a short-term
portfolio holding if it was held for less than 1 year before the vesting date
of the distribution.

141.6

The vesting date of a distribution is the earlier of—

141.6.a

the day on which it is made, and

141.6.b

the day on which the person to whom it arises is entitled to have it made.

141.7

The filing member of a multinational group may elect that all portfolio
holdings held by a member of the group specified in the election are to be
treated for the purposes of  this section  as short-term portfolio holdings.

141.8

Paragraph 1  of  Schedule 15  (long term elections) applies to an election
under  subsection (7) .

141.9

In  this section , and in  section 142 , “qualifying interest” in an entity
means—

141.9.a

a direct ownership interest in it, or

141.9.b

an entitlement to exercise voting rights in relation to it.

###### Excluded equity gain or loss

142

142.1

The underlying profits of a member of a multinational group are to be adjusted
so as to exclude any excluded equity gain or loss.

142.2

“ Excluded equity gain or loss ” means any gain, profit or loss arising from—

142.2.a

gains and losses from changes in fair value of a qualifying interest or the
impairment of such an interest, other than an interest to which  subsection
(3)  applies,

142.2.b

profit or loss in respect of a qualifying interest included in underlying
profits under the equity method of accounting,  ...  or

142.2.c

gains and losses from a disposition of a qualifying interest, other than an
interest to which  subsection (3)  applies.

142.3

This subsection  applies to a qualifying interest in an entity if the members
of the multinational group do not, at the relevant time, have qualifying
interests between them that entitle them to 10% or more of that entity’s—

142.3.a

profits,

142.3.b

capital,

142.3.c

reserves, and

142.3.d

voting rights.

142.4

The “ relevant time ” means—

142.4.a

for the purposes of testing whether  subsection (3)  applies to an interest
for the purposes of  subsection (2) (a)  or  (b) , the end of the accounting
period in which the gain, profit or loss arose, and

142.4.b

for the purposes of testing whether  subsection (3)  applies to an interest
for the purpose of  subsection (2) (c) , immediately before the disposition.

142.5

See also  section 165  which provides for an election to treat certain gains
or losses as not being excluded equity gains or losses.

###### Included revaluation method gain or loss

143

143.1

The underlying profits of a member of a multinational group are to be adjusted
so as to include any relevant revaluation method gain or loss.

143.2

“ Relevant revaluation method gain or loss ” means a gain or loss, before
making any adjustment to reflect tax expense amounts, arising as a result of
the use of an accounting method or practice that—

143.2.a

periodically adjusts the carrying value of the member’s property, plant and
equipment to its fair value,

143.2.b

records the changes in value in other comprehensive income, and

143.2.c

does not subsequently report the gains or losses through the profit and loss
account.

143.3

In  this Part —

“ other comprehensive income ”, in relation to a member of a multinational
group, means items of income and expense that are recognised, in the
underlying profits accounts, outside the profit and loss account; “ property,
plant and equipment ” has the meaning given, for the time being, by
International Accounting Standard 16.

###### Adjustments for asymmetric foreign currency income and losses

144

144.1

This section only applies in relation to a member of a multinational group
where its accounting currency and its tax currency are different.

144.2

Where—

144.2.a

the member has a gain or a loss as a result of fluctuations in the exchange
rate between its accounting currency and its tax currency, and

144.2.b

the gain or loss is reflected differently in its taxable income and in the
determination of its underlying profits (including where it is not reflected
at all in one of those),

the member’s underlying profits are to be adjusted so that the gain or loss is
reflected in those profits on the same basis it is reflected in its taxable
income.

144.3

Where—

144.3.a

the member has a gain or a loss as a result of fluctuations in the exchange
rate between its accounting currency and a third currency,

144.3.b

the gain or loss is reflected in its underlying profits, and

144.3.c

the gain or loss is not reflected, or is reflected to a different extent, in
its taxable income,

the member’s underlying profits are to be adjusted to exclude that gain or
loss.

144.4

Where—

144.4.a

the member has a gain or a loss as a result of fluctuations in the exchange
rate between its tax currency and a third currency, and

144.4.b

the income or loss is not reflected, or is reflected to a different extent, in
its underlying profits,

the member’s underlying profits are to be adjusted so that the gain or loss is
fully reflected in those profits (whether or not it is reflected in its
taxable income).

144.5

In this Part—

“ accounting currency ” means the currency of the main economic environment in
which a member of a multinational group operates; “ tax currency ” means the
currency in which the profits of that member are determined for the purposes
of determining its liability to covered taxes in the territory in which it is
located; “ third currency ” means any currency which is neither the accounting
currency nor the tax currency of the member; “ taxable income ” means income
subject to, and determined for the purposes of, covered taxes.

###### Exclusion of expenses for illegal payments, fines and penalties

145

145.1

Where the underlying profits of a member of a multinational group reflects—

145.1.a

expenses accrued for illegal payments (for example, bribes or kickbacks), or

145.1.b

expenses accrued for fines or penalties of 50,000 euros or more,

those profits are to be adjusted to exclude those expenses.

145.2

For the purposes of  subsection (1) (a) , a payment is illegal if the making
of that payment is, or forms part of conduct which is, an offence under the
law of—

145.2.a

the United Kingdom,

145.2.b

the territory of the member, or

145.2.c

the territory of the ultimate parent.

145.3

For the purposes of  subsection (1) (b) , where more than one fine or penalty
is accrued in respect of the same conduct, or for continuing conduct, those
fines or penalties are to be aggregated.

###### Adjustment for changes in accounting policies and prior period errors

146

Where there has been a change to the net assets and liabilities of a member of
a multinational group at the start of an accounting period, the underlying
profits of that member for that period are to be adjusted to include the
amount of that change if the change is attributable to—

146.a

a change in accounting policy that affects income or expenses included in
determining the member’s adjusted profits, or

146.b

a correction of an error reflected in the determination, for the purposes of
this Part, of the adjusted profits of the member for a previous accounting
period, except to the extent the   error results in a recalculation under
section 217(5) (post filing adjustments of covered taxes) .

###### Accrued pension expense

147

147.1

This section applies in an accounting period where a member of a multinational
group—

147.1.a

has made contributions to a pension fund in the period,

147.1.b

has received amounts from the pension fund in the period, or

147.1.c

otherwise has amounts of income or expense relating to the pension fund
reflected in its underlying profits.

147.2

Take the amount of income or expense (expressed as a negative number where
expense) that has arisen directly in respect of the fund as reflected in the
member’s underlying profits and—

147.2.a

add the sum of contributions made to the fund by the member in the period, and

147.2.b

subtract any amount received by the member from the fund in the period.

147.3

If the result of subsection (2)—

147.3.a

is more than nil, reduce the underlying profits by that result, or

147.3.b

is less than nil, increase the underlying profits by that result (as expressed
a positive number).

###### Treatment of tax credits

147A

147A.1

The underlying profits of a member of a multinational group, and the covered
tax balance of that member (see Chapter 5), are to be adjusted (if necessary)
to secure that—

147A.1.a

qualifying refundable tax credits are accounted for as income rather than as
tax expense,

147A.1.b

tax credits that are marketable transferable tax credits in relation to the
member are accounted for as income rather than as tax expense, and

147A.1.c

other tax credits are accounted for as tax expense rather than as income.

147A.2

Section 148 sets out when tax credits are qualifying refundable tax credits.

147A.3

Section 148A sets out the meaning of “transferable tax credit” and “marketable
transferable tax credit”.

147A.4

Sections 148B and 148C set out rules about the value of marketable
transferable tax credits.

147A.5

Sections 176A to 176C (in Chapter 5) set out rules about the value of tax
credits that are not marketable transferable tax credits but which are
transferable or were transferred (and which as a result of subsection (1)(c)
are generally to be accounted for as tax expense).

147A.6

See also sections 176D to 176F which contain special rules for tax credits
received in under a tax equity partnership arrangement.

######  

148

148.1

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

148.2

A refundable tax credit is “qualifying” to the extent that, under the law of
the territory in which it is given, it entitles a person to receive (by way of
payment or discharge of liability) the amount of the refundable tax credit
within 4 years of meeting the conditions for receiving it.

148.3

But a refundable tax credit is never qualifying if it is creditable or
refundable pursuant to a qualified refundable imputation tax or a disqualified
refundable imputation tax (see  section 253 ).

148.4

In this Part “ refundable tax credit ” means a tax credit which—

148.4.a

after any liability to covered taxes has been reduced or discharged by it, or

148.4.b

in the absence of any  ... liability to covered taxes,

is payable in cash or cash equivalents (which for these purposes includes by
way of discharge against a liability to a tax which is not a covered tax).

###### Transferable tax credits

148A

148A.1

A tax credit is a transferable tax credit in relation to a member of a
multinational group if—

148A.1.a

the member is—

148A.1.a.i

the person to whom the credit was originally granted (“the originator”), or

148A.1.a.ii

a person (“a purchaser”) who has acquired the credit (whether from the
originator or anyone else), and

148A.1.b

the transferability condition is met in relation to the member.

148A.2

A transferable tax credit is a marketable transferable tax credit in relation
to a member of a multinational group if—

148A.2.a

it is a transferable tax credit, and

148A.2.b

the marketable condition is met in relation to the member.

148A.3

Those conditions are met differently depending on whether the member is the
originator or a purchaser.

148A.4

The transferability condition is met—

148A.4.a

in relation to the originator if, under the law of the territory in which the
credit was granted, credits of that type may be transferred to a person or
entity that is not connected with originator before the end of 15 months after
the end of the accounting period in which the credit is granted, and

148A.4.b

in relation to a purchaser if, under the law of that territory, credits of
that type may be transferred to a person or entity that is not connected with
the purchaser—

148A.4.b.i

under the same or similar conditions as would apply to the originator, and

148A.4.b.ii

before the end of the accounting period in which it was transferred to the
purchaser.

148A.5

The marketable condition is met—

148A.5.a

in relation to the originator, if—

148A.5.a.i

the credit is transferred to a person or entity that is not connected with the
originator before the end of 15 months of the accounting period in which the
credit was granted at a price equal to or in excess of 80% of its net present
value, or

148A.5.a.ii

similar credits are traded between persons or entities that are not connected
to each other before the end of 15 months of the accounting period in which
they are granted, and are typically traded at a price equal to or in excess of
80% of their net present value, and

148A.5.b

in relation to a purchaser, if the purchaser acquired the credit from a person
or entity that is not connected to the purchaser at a price equal to or in
excess of 80% of its net present value.

148A.6

Subsections (7) and (8) apply for the purposes of determining the net present
value of a tax credit.

148A.7

In making that determination, assume that the entity that holds it will be
able to use it in the accounting periods in which it may be used.

148A.8

The discount rate to be used in making that determination is to be determined
by reference to the return on debt instruments that are issued by the
government of the territory in which the credit was granted—

148A.8.a

that have—

148A.8.a.i

the same, or a similar, maturity to the period over which the credit is to be
used, or

148A.8.a.ii

in a case in which the credit is to be used over a period exceeding 5 years, a
maturity of 5 years, and

148A.8.b

that are issued—

148A.8.b.i

in relation to a credit that has been transferred, in the accounting period in
which the credit was transferred, or

148A.8.b.ii

in relation to a credit held that has not been transferred, in the accounting
period in which it was granted.

148A.9

References in subsections (6) and (8) to an accounting period are—

148A.9.a

in relation to determining net present value in connection with determining
whether the marketable condition is met by the originator, an accounting
period of the originator, and

148A.9.b

in relation to determining net present value in connection with determining
whether the marketable condition is met by a purchaser, an accounting period
of the purchaser.

148A.10

Where a transferable tax credit is also a qualifying refundable tax credit, it
is to be treated as not being a transferable tax credit for the purposes of
this Part.

###### Value of marketable transferable tax credits: originator

148B

148B.1

The underlying profits of a member of a multinational group that is the
originator in relation to a marketable transferable tax credit are to be
adjusted to secure that the value of marketable transferable tax credits it
holds, and has held, as originator are reflected as follows.

148B.2

Where the credit is not transferred before the end of 15 months after the end
of the accounting period in which it was granted, the full value of the credit
is to be recognised as income.

148B.3

Where the credit is subsequently transferred for consideration which is less
than the value of the credit, the difference between the value of the credit
and the consideration received for its transfer is to be recognised as a loss
in the accounting period in which it is transferred.

148B.4

Where the credit is transferred before the end of 15 months after the end of
the accounting period in which the credit is granted, the consideration for
the transfer (rather than the value of the credit) is to be recognised as
income.

148B.5

Where the credit has not been transferred, and was not fully used, before its
expiry, the value of so much of the credit as has not been used is to be
reflected as a loss in the accounting period in which the credit expired.

###### Value of marketable transferable tax credits: purchaser

148C

148C.1

The underlying profits of a member of a multinational group that is the
purchaser in relation to a marketable transferable tax credit are to be
adjusted to secure that the value of marketable transferable tax credits it
holds, and has held, as purchaser are reflected as follows.

148C.2

On using an amount of the credit in an accounting period, the amount given by
subsection (3) is to be recognised as income.

148C.3

That amount is the amount given by multiplying—

148C.3.a

the amount used divided by the full value of the credit, by

148C.3.b

the amount given by subtracting the purchase price of the credit from the full
value of the credit.

148C.4

On transferring the credit, the amount in subsection (5) is to be reflected in
the underlying profits for the accounting period in which the transfer
occurred—

148C.4.a

if positive, as a gain, or

148C.4.b

if negative, as a loss.

148C.5

That amount is the amount given by subtracting—

148C.5.a

the sum of—

148C.5.a.i

the purchase price of the credit, and

148C.5.a.ii

any amounts recognised as income in accordance with subsection (2) (whether in
that accounting period or a previous accounting period), from

148C.5.b

the sum of—

148C.5.b.i

the amount of the credit that has been used, and

148C.5.b.ii

the consideration for the transfer.

148C.6

Where the credit has not been transferred, and was not fully used, before its
expiry, the amount in subsection (7) is to be reflected as a loss in the
accounting period in which the credit expired.

148C.7

That amount is the amount given by subtracting—

148C.7.a

the amount of the credit that was used, from

148C.7.b

the sum of the purchase price of the credit and any amounts recognised in
accordance with subsection (2).

###### Arm’s length requirement for certain transactions

149

149.1

Subsection (6)  applies to a member of a multinational group if any of
Conditions A to D are met.

149.2

Condition A is that—

149.2.a

a debit is recorded in the underlying profits accounts of the member that
arises from a transaction (“the relevant transaction”) comprising a transfer
of an asset between the member and another member of that group,

149.2.b

both members are located in the same territory, and

149.2.c

the relevant transaction is not recorded on an arm’s length basis.

149.3

Condition B is that—

149.3.a

the member is party to a transaction (“the relevant transaction”) with another
member of that group,

149.3.b

both members are located in the same territory,

149.3.c

one of the members is a minority owned member and the other is not, and

149.3.d

the relevant transaction is not recorded in the member’s underlying profits
accounts on an arm’s length basis.

149.4

Condition C is that—

149.4.a

the member is party to a transaction (“the relevant transaction”) with another
member of that group,

149.4.b

both members are located in the same territory,

149.4.c

one of the members is an investment entity and the other is not, and

149.4.d

the relevant transaction is not recorded in the member’s underlying profits
accounts on an arm’s length basis.

149.5

Condition D is that—

149.5.a

the member is party to a transaction (“the relevant transaction”) with another
member of that group,

149.5.b

both members are located in the same territory, and

149.5.c

the recorded value of the relevant transaction is not the same in each
member’s underlying profits accounts.

149.6

Where  this subsection  applies to a member of a multinational group, the
underlying profits of   both that member and the other member   are to be
adjusted to secure that the relevant transaction is reflected on an arm’s
length basis.

149.7

In  this Part  “ arm’s length basis ”, in relation to a transaction between
members of the same multinational group, means reflecting the conditions of
the transaction as would have been obtained had the transaction been conducted
between independent enterprises in a comparable transaction under comparable
circumstances.

###### Transactions between members of a multinational group: differences with accounting for tax

150

150.1

This section  applies if—

150.1.a

a transaction between two members of a multinational group located in
different territories is not recorded in the same amount, or is not recorded
on an arm’s length basis (or is not recorded at all), in the underlying
profits accounts of both of those members, and

150.1.b

there is a permanent difference in respect of the transaction in relation to
one or both of those members as a result of adjustments to the taxable income
of the member made in connection with transfer pricing.

150.2

Subsection (3)  applies if—

150.2.a

for each member there is a permanent difference in respect of the transaction
which arises as a result of adjustments made in connection with transfer
pricing, and

150.2.b

the permanent difference for each member corresponds to the permanent
difference for the other.

150.3

Where  this subsection  applies, the underlying profits of each of the members
are to be adjusted so that the amount of the transaction reflects the amount
reflected in the member’s taxable income.

150.4

Subsection (5)  applies if—

150.4.a

one of the members (“ A ”) is a high tax member,

150.4.b

there is a permanent difference for A in respect of the transaction which
arises as a result of adjustments made in connection with transfer pricing,
and

150.4.c

there is no permanent difference for the other member (“ B ”) in respect of
the transaction arising as a result of adjustments made in connection with
transfer pricing.

150.5

Where  this subsection  applies—

150.5.a

the underlying profits of A are to be adjusted so that the amount of the
transaction reflects the amount reflected in the member’s taxable income, and

150.5.b

an adjustment is to be made to the underlying profits of B which corresponds
with the amount of the adjustment made to the profits of A.

150.6

For the purposes of  this section , a member of a multinational group is a
high tax member for an accounting period (“ the relevant period ”) if—

150.6.a

the nominal tax rate   that applies to the member   is, or exceeds, 15% in the
relevant period, and

150.6.b

the effective tax rate of the standard members of that group in   the
territory in which the member is located   is, or exceeds, 15% in either, or
both, of the accounting period that immediately preceded the relevant period
and the accounting period immediately before that one.

150.6A

But—

150.6A.a

for the purposes of subsection (6)(b), ignore any accounting period in which
there was no standard member of the group in that territory to which the
Pillar Two rules applied, and

150.6A.b

a standard member of a multinational group is always to be regarded as a high
tax member for an accounting period if a transitional safe harbour election
applies to it for that period.

150.7

In this section reference to a “permanent difference” is to a difference
between the treatment of an amount for the purposes of covered taxes and for
accounting purposes that is not eliminated over time (and accordingly does not
give rise to deferred tax).

###### Adjustments for companies in distress

151

151.1

This section  applies to a member of a multinational group   for an accounting
period  where—

151.1.a

it is released from an obligation to pay a debt (however that obligation
arises),  ...

151.1.aa

that release is reflected in the underlying profits of the member for that
period,

151.1.b

at the time of that release, one or more of the circumstances mentioned in
paragraphs (a)  to  (c)  of  subsection (2)  applied to it  , and

151.1.c

the filing member of the group elects that this section should apply to the
member for that period.

151.2

Those circumstances are—

151.2.a

that the member meets an insolvency condition mentioned in paragraphs (a) to
(e) of section 322(6) of CTA 2009 (release of debts);

151.2.b

that—

151.2.b.i

it is reasonable to suppose that within 12 months, ignoring any debts owed to
persons and entities that are connected to the member, the member will be
unable to meet its debts to persons and entities it is not connected to as
they fall due, and

151.2.b.ii

the member has obtained an independent expert opinion confirming that is the
case;

151.2.c

that the member’s liabilities exceed its assets.

151.3

Where the circumstance in  subsection (2) (a)  applies to the member, its
underlying profits are to be adjusted to exclude any profits arising as a
result of the release of the debt obligation.

151.4

Where—

151.4.a

the circumstance in  subsection (2) (b)  applies to the member,

151.4.b

the circumstance in (2)(a) does not, and

151.4.c

the debt—

151.4.c.i

is not a debt owed to a person or entity that is connected to the member, or

151.4.c.ii

the debt is owed to a person or entity that is connected to the member, but
the release of the debt obligation can reasonably be regarded as part of
arrangements to secure the solvency of the member that involve the release of
debt owed to a person that is not connected to the member,

the member’s underlying profits are to be adjusted to exclude any profits
arising as a result of the release of the debt obligation.

151.5

Subsection (6)  applies where—

151.5.a

the circumstance in  subsection (2) (c)  applies to the member,

151.5.b

neither the circumstance in  subsection (2) (a)  nor  (2) (b)  applies to the
member, and

151.5.c

the debt is not a debt owed to a person or entity that is connected to the
member.

151.6

Where  this subsection  applies, the underlying profits of the member are to
be adjusted to exclude the lesser of—

151.6.a

the amount of any profits arising as a result of the release of the debt
obligation,

151.6.b

if, as a result of the release of the debt obligation, the member’s assets
exceed its liabilities, the amount by which its liabilities exceeded its
assets immediately before the release, and

151.6.c

if, in determining the member’s liability to tax, some or all of the profits
arising as a result of the release of the debt obligation are offset by
local tax attributes , the amount of those profits that are offset.

151.6A

For the purposes of subsection (6)(c) “ local tax attributes ” means any tax
attributes (which may include foreign tax credits) of the member that are
recognised under the law of the territory in which the member is located
(whether or not such tax attributes are excluded from the member’s covered tax
balance).

151.7

Where more than one debt is released at the same time, the debts released are
to be treated as a single aggregate amount for the purpose of assessing
whether conditions in this section are met (for example, whether the member’s
assets exceed its liabilities at any time).

151.8

Paragraph 2 of Schedule 15 (annual elections) applies to an election under
subsection (1)(c).

###### Adjustments where life assurance business carried on

152

152.1

This section applies to a member of a multinational group that carries on a
life assurance business.

152.2

Where amounts charged to the member’s policyholders for taxes payable by the
member are reflected in its underlying profits, those profits are to be
adjusted to exclude such of those amounts as would (had they not been charged
to the policyholders) have   been included in the member’s covered tax balance
.

152.3

Where returns to the member’s policyholders are not reflected in the member’s
underlying profits but corresponding increases or decreases in the liability
of the member to the policyholders are so reflected, those profits are to be
adjusted so as to reflect those returns to the extent they correspond with
those increases or decreases in liability.

152.4

In this section “ life assurance business ” means—

152.4.a

a life assurance business within the meaning of section 56 of FA 2012, or

152.4.b

a business regulated as a life assurance business under the law of a territory
outside the United Kingdom.

###### Exclusion of certain insurance reserve movement expense

153

153.1

The underlying profits of a member of a multinational group that is an
insurance company are to be adjusted so as to exclude any expense resulting
from the movement of its insurance reserves where the movement is economically
matched by excluded dividends  falling within section 141(2)(b)   (ignoring
the extent to which those dividends also reflect any investment management
fees).

153.2

The underlying profits of a member of a multinational group that is an
insurance company are to be adjusted so as to exclude any expense resulting
from the movement of its insurance reserves where the movement is economically
matched by an excluded equity gain or loss.

###### Exclusion of qualifying intra-group financing arrangement expenses

154

154.1

Where—

154.1.a

the underlying profits of the member of a multinational group for an
accounting period reflect expenses attributable to a qualifying intra-group
financing arrangement that could be reasonably expected, over the expected
duration of the arrangement, to—

154.1.a.i

increase the amount of expenses taken into account in calculating the member’s
underlying profits, and

154.1.a.ii

not result in a corresponding increase in the taxable income of a member of
the group that is a high tax member for that period,

154.1.b

the member is a low tax member for that period, and

154.1.c

the expenses are not required to be included as a result of  section 155 ,

the member’s underlying profits for that period are to be adjusted to exclude
those expenses.

154.2

In  this section —

“ intra-group financing arrangement ” means an arrangement between two or more
members of a multinational group under which a member (member A) directly or
indirectly provides credit or otherwise makes an investment in another member
(member B); an intra-group financing arrangement is “ qualifying ” if member A
is a high tax member and member B is a low tax member; a member of a
multinational group is a “ low tax member ” in an accounting period if the
effective tax rate for the standard members of the group located in the
member’s territory for that period would, ignoring intra-group financing
arrangements, be less than 15%; a member of a multinational group is a “ high
tax member ” in an accounting period if the effective tax rate for the
standard members of the group located in the member’s territory would,
ignoring intra-group financing arrangements, be 15% or more.

###### Qualifying tier one capital

155

155.1

Where amounts recognised by a member of a multinational group as a decrease to
its equity in an accounting period that is attributable to distributions paid
or payable in respect of qualifying tier one capital issued by the member are
not reflected in its underlying profits for that period as expenses, those
profits are to be adjusted to reflect those amounts as expenses.

155.2

Where amounts recognised by a member of a multinational group as an increase
to its equity in an accounting period that is attributable to distributions
received or receivable in respect of qualifying tier one capital held by the
member are not reflected in its underlying profits for that period as income,
those profits are to be adjusted to reflect those amounts as income.

155.3

In this section “ qualifying tier one capital ” means an instrument issued by
an entity pursuant to regulatory requirements applicable to the banking or
insurance sector that is convertible to equity or written down if a pre-
specified trigger event occurs and that has other features which are designed
to aid loss absorbency in the event of a financial crisis.

###### Exclusion of international shipping profits

156

156.1

Where the underlying profits of a member of a multinational group for an
accounting period reflect the inclusion of international shipping profits, the
member’s underlying profits for that period are to be adjusted to exclude
those profits.

156.2

The member’s international shipping profits for the period are the sum of the
member’s—

156.2.a

core international shipping profits (see section  157 ), and

156.2.b

ancillary international shipping profits (see section  158 ).

156.3

Subsection  (1)  does not apply if, in the period, the strategic and
commercial management of any ship used in international shipping giving rise
to those profits is not effectively carried on within the territory in which
the member is located.

156.4

In this section, and in sections  157  and  158 —

“ international shipping ” means the transportation of passengers or cargo by
ship between different territories; “ transportation ” does not include towing
or dredging.

###### Core international shipping profits

157

157.1

A member’s core international shipping profits for a period are the member’s
core international shipping revenue for the period less the member’s core
international shipping costs for the period.

157.2

A member’s core international shipping revenue is all revenue earned by the
member in consideration for the member’s performance of core international
shipping activities.

157.3

A member’s core international shipping costs are the sum of—

157.3.a

all costs incurred by the member that are directly attributable to the
member’s performance of core international shipping activities, and

157.3.b

all costs incurred by the member that are indirectly attributable to the
member’s performance of core international shipping activities multiplied by
the core international shipping factor.

157.4

The core international shipping factor is the member’s core international
shipping revenue divided by all revenue earned by the member from any source.

157.5

An activity is a core international shipping activity if it is of a type
referred to in subsection  (6) .

157.6

The types of activity are—

157.6.a

carrying out international shipping, whether alone or in conjunction with
another person;

157.6.b

leasing as lessor a ship to be used for international shipping, where—

157.6.b.i

the ship is leased fully equipped, crewed and supplied, or

157.6.b.ii

the lessee is a member of the same multinational group and the purpose of the
lease is to allow that member to carry out a core international shipping
activity;

157.6.c

arranging for another person to carry out international shipping under slot-
chartering arrangements;

157.6.d

the sale of a ship used in international shipping, where the ship has been
held for use by the member for at least one year.

###### Ancillary international shipping profits

158

158.1

A member’s ancillary international shipping profits for a period are the
member’s ancillary international shipping revenue for the period, less—

158.1.a

the member’s ancillary international shipping costs for the period, and

158.1.b

the member’s ancillary international shipping profit cap adjustment for the
period.

158.2

A member’s ancillary international shipping revenue is all revenue earned by
the member in consideration for the member’s performance of ancillary
international shipping activities.

158.3

A member’s ancillary international shipping costs are the sum of—

158.3.a

all costs incurred by the member that are directly attributable to the
member’s performance of ancillary international shipping activities, and

158.3.b

all costs incurred by the member that are indirectly attributable to the
member’s performance of ancillary international shipping activities multiplied
by the ancillary international shipping factor.

158.4

The ancillary international shipping factor is the ancillary international
shipping revenue divided by all revenue earned by the member from any source.

158.5

An activity is an ancillary international shipping activity if—

158.5.a

it is of a type referred to in subsection  (6) , and

158.5.b

it is performed primarily in connection with international shipping.

158.6

The types of activity are—

158.6.a

leasing as lessor a ship to be used for international shipping, where—

158.6.a.i

the ship is not leased fully equipped, crewed and supplied,

158.6.a.ii

the lessee is a third party, and

158.6.a.iii

the lease has not been in effect for a period exceeding three years, or
entered into on terms that would result in the lease being in effect for such
a period;

158.6.b

selling tickets for a domestic leg of an international voyage carried out by a
third party;

158.6.c

leasing as lessor a container of a kind used for international shipping;

158.6.d

storing such a container for a short period, including by leasing as lessor
space for the storage of such a container by another person;

158.6.e

providing support services (see subsection  (7) (e) ) to persons engaged in
international shipping;

158.6.f

holding assets necessary for the member to carry out a core international
shipping activity;

158.6.g

the disposal of emissions allowances it is necessary for the member to hold in
order to carry out international shipping.

158.7

For the purposes of subsection  (6) —

158.7.a

“ third party ”, in relation to a member of a multinational group, means a
person that is not—

158.7.a.i

the member, or

158.7.a.ii

a member of the same multinational group;

158.7.b

“ domestic leg of an international voyage ” means the transportation of
passengers or cargo by ship between two locations in a single territory in
circumstances where the ship’s overall voyage has proceeded from or will
continue to a different territory;

158.7.c

a lease of a ship is in effect for the period in which the practical effect of
that lease and any associated arrangements (including any other lease) is that
a person is in the position of a lessee of the ship, whether or not the lease
or any other document expressly provides that the person is a lessee of the
ship for the whole of that period;

158.7.d

“ lessee ”, in relation to a ship, means the person referred to in paragraph
(c) ;

158.7.e

“ support services ” means engineering, maintenance, cargo handling, catering
and customer relations services.

158.8

The member’s ancillary international shipping profit cap adjustment is to be
calculated by taking the following steps—

Step 1 Determine the “cap threshold” in accordance with Steps 2 to 5. Step 2
Calculate the core international shipping profits for each member of the group
in the territory. Step 3 Add together the amounts calculated at Step 2. Step 4
If the result of Step 3 is nil or less, the cap threshold is nil. Otherwise,
proceed to Step 5. Step 5 Divide the result of Step 3 by two. This is the cap
threshold. Step 6 Calculate the ancillary international shipping profits for
each member of the group in the territory (ignoring the requirement to
subtract the ancillary international shipping profit cap adjustment). Step 7
Add together the amounts calculated at Step 6. Step 8 Subtract the cap
threshold from the result of Step 7. If the result is nil or less, the
member’s ancillary international shipping profit cap adjustment is nil.
Otherwise, proceed to Step 9. Step 9 If the ancillary international shipping
profits for the member calculated at Step 6 are nil or less, the member’s
ancillary international shipping profit cap adjustment is nil. Otherwise,
proceed to Step 10. Step 10 Add together any positive ancillary international
shipping profits calculated at Step 6. Step 11 Divide the ancillary
international shipping profits for the member calculated at Step 6 by the
result of Step 10. Step 12 Multiply the result of Step 8 by the result of Step
11. This is the member’s ancillary international shipping profit cap
adjustment.

##### Adjustments only applicable to permanent establishments

###### Permanent establishment income and expense attribution

159

159.1

Where a member of a multinational group is a permanent establishment falling
within  paragraph (a)  of  section 232 (2)  (entity treated as permanent
establishment in accordance with tax treaty), its underlying profits are to be
adjusted so that they  —

159.1.a

reflect all amounts of income and expense that are attributable to it in
accordance with the tax treaty under which it is treated as a permanent
establishment, and

159.1.b

do not reflect amounts attributable to its main entity in accordance with that
treaty.

159.2

Where a member of a multinational group is a permanent establishment falling
within  paragraph (b)  of  section 232 (2)  (permanent establishment taxed on
similar basis to residents in absence of tax treaty), its underlying profits
are to be adjusted so that they  —

159.2.a

reflect all amounts of income and expense that are attributable to it in
accordance with the law of the territory in which the member is located, and

159.2.b

do not reflect amounts attributable to its main entity in accordance with the
law of that territory.

159.3

Where a member of a multinational group is a permanent establishment falling
within  paragraph (c)  of  section 232 (2)  (permanent establishment located
in territory without corporate income tax), its underlying profits are to be
adjusted so that they  —

159.3.a

reflect all amounts of income and expense that would be attributed to it in
accordance with Article 7 of the OECD tax model, and

159.3.b

do not reflect amounts that would be attributed to its main entity in
accordance with the OECD tax model.

159.4

Amounts are to be reflected (or, as the case may be, not reflected) in the
underlying profits of a permanent establishment in accordance with subsections
(1) to (3) whether or not—

159.4.a

in the case of an amount of income, it is subject to tax or not, or

159.4.b

in the case of an amount of expense, it is deductible or not.

###### Attribution of losses between permanent establishment and main entity

160

160.1

Subsection (2)  applies where, on determining (ignoring this section) the
adjusted profits of a member of a multinational group that is a permanent
establishment for an accounting period (“ the relevant period ”), that member
has a loss.

160.2

So much of that loss as—

160.2.a

is treated as an allowable expense of the main entity for the purposes of the
computation of tax in the territory in which the main entity is located, and

160.2.b

is not set off against an item of income that is subject to tax under the laws
of both the territory of the permanent establishment and the territory of the
main entity,

is to be treated as an expense of the main entity for the purposes of
determining the adjusted profits of the main entity for the relevant period.

160.3

Subsections (4)  and  (5)  apply where an amount (“ the relevant amount ”) is
treated as an expense of the main entity for the purposes of determining its
adjusted profits for the relevant period as a result of  subsection (2) .

160.4

The relevant amount is to be excluded from the adjusted profits of the
permanent establishment for the relevant period.

160.5

Where, on determining (ignoring this section) the adjusted profits of the
permanent establishment for an accounting period after the relevant period,
the permanent establishment has made a profit for that period, those profits
are to be treated as income of the main entity for the purpose of determining
that entity’s adjusted profits for that period.

160.6

But  subsection (5)  only applies until the total amount treated as income of
the main entity as a result of that subsection is equal to the relevant
amount.

160.7

Where profits of the permanent establishment for an accounting period are
treated as income of the main entity as a result of  subsection (5) , those
profits are to be excluded from the adjusted profits of the permanent
establishment for that period.

##### Elections to treat certain amounts differently

###### Election to use realisation principle

161

161.1

The filing member of a multinational group may elect that all of the group’s
members in a territory, or all of the group’s members in that territory that
are investment entities, are to use the realisation principle in determining
gains and losses in relation to—

161.1.a

all assets and liabilities that are subject to fair value or impairment
accounting, or

161.1.b

tangible assets that are subject to fair value accounting or impairment
accounting.

161.2

Where such an election is in force in relation to members of multinational
group in a territory—

161.2.a

the underlying profits of each of the group’s members for each of the
accounting periods in respect of which the election is in force are to be
adjusted so as to exclude gains and losses in respect of assets or liabilities
to which the election applies that are attributable to fair value or
impairment accounting;

161.2.b

the carrying value of an asset or liability to which the election applies to
be used for the purposes of determining gains or losses in respect of that
asset or liability, is to be its carrying value at the later of—

161.2.b.i

the commencement of the first accounting period of the multinational group to
which the election applied, or

161.2.b.ii

the time the asset was acquired or the liability was incurred.

161.3

Paragraph 1  of  Schedule 15  (long term elections) applies to an election
under this section.

161.4

Where an election under this section has been revoked, the underlying profits
of each member of a multinational group in respect of which the election was
in force are to be adjusted in the first accounting period in respect of which
the election no longer applies (“the revocation period”) by adjusting for the
change in treatment of the assets and liabilities that were subject to the
election and that remain held by the member at the commencement of the
revocation period.

161.5

To adjust the underlying profits of a member of a multinational group for the
change in treatment of an asset or liability subject to an election under this
section, subtract the carrying value of that asset or liability as determined
in accordance with  subsection (2) (b)  from the fair value of the asset or
liability at the commencement of the revocation period and—

161.5.a

if the amount given is positive, add it to those profits, or

161.5.b

if the amount is negative, subtract it from those profits.

###### Election to reflect deductions for stock-based compensation

162

162.1

The filing member of a multinational group may make an election under  this
section  for the members of the group located in a territory to adjust their
underlying profits in accordance with  subsection (2) .

162.2

Where such an election has effect—

162.2.a

the underlying profits of each such member is adjusted by substituting, for
the amount of any expense for stock-based compensation, the amount that was
allowed as a deduction for the same expense when calculating the member’s
taxable income, and

162.2.b

where such a member has an expense for stock-based compensation that arises in
connection with an option that expires without exercise, the underlying
profits of that member for the accounting period in which the option expires
are to be increased by such amount of that expense as was an expense in
determining the member’s adjusted profits for a previous accounting period.

162.3

Where—

162.3.a

the underlying profits of a member of a multinational group are adjusted in
accordance with  subsection (2)  in respect of an amount of stock-based
compensation,

162.3.b

some expenses in respect of that compensation were recorded in the underlying
profits of the member in one or more accounting periods before the election
had effect, and

162.3.c

the sum of the expenses recorded in those periods exceeds the sum of what
those expenses would have been had the election been in effect for those
periods,

the member’s adjusted profits are to be adjusted to include the amount of that
excess as if it were income.

162.4

Paragraph 1  of  Schedule 15  (long term elections) applies to an election
under  this section .

162.5

Where—

162.5.a

the underlying profits of a member of a multinational group are adjusted in
accordance with  subsection (2) ,

162.5.b

the election is revoked before all of the stock-based compensation has been
paid, and

162.5.c

the sum of amounts deducted in accordance with subsection (2) exceeds the sum
of the financial account expense accrued that has been paid,

the member’s adjusted profits are to be adjusted to include the amount of that
excess as if it were income.

###### Election to spread certain capital gains over five years

163

163.1

The filing member of a multinational group may elect that the net gain in
respect of the disposal of local tangible assets by standard members of the
group in a territory in an accounting period (“the election period”) is to be
spread across that period and the preceding 4 accounting periods ( and those
preceding periods are referred to collectively as   “ the look-back period ”)
in accordance with  subsection (2) .

163.2

To spread the net gain across those periods take the following steps—

Step 1  For each standard member of the group in the territory in the first
accounting period of the look-back period (“the carry-back period”), determine
whether it has net losses in respect of the disposal of local tangible assets
(ignoring any losses in relation to which these steps have previously been
carried out).   Step 2 Allocate the proportion of the net gain in the election
period to each standard member with such losses in the carry-back period that
is equal to the proportion those losses represent of the total losses in
respect of the disposal of local tangible assets of all such members of the
group in the carry-back period. Step 3 Adjust the underlying profits of each
such member by reducing the member’s losses (but not below nil) by the amount
allocated to it under Step 2. Step 4 If there remains an amount of the net
gain which was not used to reduce members’ losses in accordance with Step 3,
carry out Steps 1 to 3 again, but as if— the reference in Step 2 to the net
gain were to that amount, and the reference to the first accounting period of
the look-back period were to the second accounting period of the look-back
period. Step 5 If there still remains an amount of the net gain which was not
used to reduce the members’ losses, carry out Steps 1 to 3 again but as if—
the reference in Step 2 to the net gain were to that amount, and the reference
to the first accounting period of the look-back period were to the third
accounting period of the look-back period. Step 6 If there still remains an
amount of the net gain which was not used to reduce the members’ losses, carry
out Steps 1 to 3 again but as if— the reference in Step 2 to the net gain were
to that amount, and the reference to the first accounting period of the look-
back period were to the fourth accounting period of the look-back period. Step
7 If there still remains an amount of the net gain which was not used to
reduce the members’ losses, carry out Steps 1 to 3 again but as if— the
reference in Step 2 to the net gain were to that amount, and the reference to
the first accounting period of the look-back period were to the election
period. Step 8 If there still remains an amount of the net gain which was not
used to reduced the members’ losses, divide the amount remaining by 5. Step 9
Determine which of the standard members of the group (“current gain members”)
located in the territory have net gains from the disposal of local tangible
assets in the election period. A current gain member is not to be regarded as
a current gain member in any accounting period in which— it is not a standard
member of the group, or it is not located in the territory.  Step 10 For the
election period and each accounting period that is in the look-back period,
adjust the underlying profits for that period (“the adjustment period”) of
each current gain member by adding the amount given by multiplying— the result
of Step 8, by the amount given by dividing— the net gains of the current gain
member from the disposal of local tangible assets in the election period, by
the sum of net gains from the disposal of local tangible assets in the
election period of all current gain members in the adjustment period. Step 11
Where there are no current gain members in an accounting period in the look-
back period, adjust the underlying profits for that period of each standard
member located in the territory for that period by adding the amount given by
multiplying— the result of Step 8, by the amount given by dividing 1 by the
number of standard members of the group in the territory in that accounting
period. Step 12 Where there are no standard members of the group in the
territory in one or more accounting periods in the look-back period, further
adjust the underlying profits for the election period of each current gain
member by adding the amount given by multiplying— the result of Step 8
multiplied by the number of accounting periods in the look-back period in
which no standard members of the group were located in the territory, by the
amount given by dividing— the net gains of the current gain member from the
disposal of local tangible assets in the election period, by the sum of net
gains from the disposal of local tangible assets in the election period of all
current gain members.

163.3

For the purposes of  this section  any gain or loss arising from the transfer
of assets between  ... members of a multinational group is to be ignored.

163.4

Where, as a result of an election under  this section , the underlying profits
of a member of a multinational group in an accounting period is adjusted, the
following are to be recalculated for that period—

163.4.a

the effective tax rate for the member and the other members of that group
located in the same territory, and

163.4.b

the top-up amounts that those members would have.

163.5

Section 206 —

163.5.a

makes provision about the consequences of a recalculation (which may include
the generation of an additional top-up amount), and

163.5.b

applies to recalculations under  subsection (4) .

163.6

Where an election under  this section  has effect in relation to a member of a
multinational group, any amount of tax with respect to any gains or loss in
respect of the disposal of local tangible assets in the election year is to be
excluded from the calculation of the member’s covered tax balance.

163.7

Paragraph 2  of  Schedule 15  (annual elections) applies to an election under
this section .

163.8

In  this section  “ local tangible asset ” means immovable property in the
same territory as the member disposing of it is located.

###### Election to exclude intra-group transactions

164

164.1

The filing member of a multinational group may elect that standard members of
the group that are located in the same territory and are included in a tax
consolidation group are to apply the consolidated accounting treatment of the
ultimate parent to eliminate income, expenses, gains and losses arising from
transactions between those members.

164.2

Where an election under  this section  has effect—

164.2.a

the underlying profits of those members are to be adjusted accordingly in the
accounting periods for which the election has effect, and

164.2.b

the underlying profits of those members are to be adjusted for the first
accounting period for which the election has effect so as to ensure that there
are no duplications or omissions of items of income, expenses, gains or losses
arising from the making of the election.

164.3

Paragraph 1  of  Schedule 15  (long term elections) applies to an election
under  this section .

164.4

Where an election under  this section  is revoked, the underlying profits of
the members to whom the election applied are to be adjusted in the first
accounting period in which the revocation has effect so as to ensure that
there are no duplications or omissions of items of income, expenses, gains or
losses arising from the revocation of the election.

164.5

For the purposes of this section, members of a multinational group in a
territory are included in a “tax consolidation group” if under the law of that
territory the income, expenses, gains or losses of those members may for tax
purposes be aggregated, surrendered to each other or otherwise shared or
transferred between them as a result of a connection between those members.

###### Election to have excluded equity gains and losses included

165

165.1

The filing member of a multinational group may elect that qualifying excluded
equity gains or losses of the standard members of the group in a territory are
to be treated as not being excluded equity gains or losses for the purposes of
section 142 .

165.2

Excluded equity gains or losses are “qualifying” if

165.2.a

either—

165.2.a.i

those gains or losses are subject to covered taxes (as taxable gains or
allowable losses) in that territory, or

165.2.a.ii

in the case of gains or losses falling within  section 142 (2) (a)  that are
not subject to covered taxes in that territory, gains or losses on the
disposal of the qualifying interest in question are subject to covered taxes
in that territory  , and

165.2.b

in the case of gains or losses falling within section 142(2)(b), the gains or
losses are not in respect of an interest to which section 142(3) applies.

165.3

Paragraph  1  of  Schedule 15  (long term elections) applies to an election
under  subsection (1) .

165.4

But a revocation of the election under that paragraph does not have effect in
relation to equity gains or losses in respect of an ownership interest if—

165.4.a

any member’s adjusted profits have included a loss in respect of that
ownership interest as a result of  subsection (1) , and

165.4.b

that loss would otherwise have been excluded from those profits as a result of
section 142 (1) .

Accordingly,  subsection (1)  will apply to equity gains and losses in respect
of that ownership interest even after the election is revoked.

###### Election in relation to hedging currency risk in ownership interests

166

166.1

The filing member of a multinational group may elect that the underlying
profits of a member of the group specified in the election are to be adjusted
to exclude qualifying gains or losses arising from fluctuations in exchange
rates.

166.2

A gain or loss arising from fluctuations in exchange rates is “qualifying” to
the extent—

166.2.a

the gain or loss is attributable to an instrument intended to act as a hedge
against currency risk in ownership interests held by the member or another
member of the group, other than an ownership interest in an entity falling
within  subsection (3) ,

166.2.b

the gain or loss is recognised in other comprehensive income in the
consolidated financial statements of the ultimate parent,

166.2.c

the instrument is considered an effective net investment hedge under the
authorised accounting standard upon which those statements are prepared,

166.2.d

where the instrument is held by the member, the economic and accounting effect
of the hedge has not been transferred to any other entity, and

166.2.e

where the instrument is not held by the member, the economic and accounting
effect of the hedge has been transferred to the member.

166.3

An ownership interest in an entity held by a member of a multinational group
falls within  this subsection  if the members of that group do not, between
them, have qualifying interests that entitle them to 10% or more of the
entity’s —

166.3.a

profits,

166.3.b

capital,

166.3.c

reserves, and

166.3.d

voting rights.

166.4

Paragraph  1  of  Schedule 15  (long term elections) applies to an election
under  this section .

##### Dealing with transparency and entities subject to qualifying dividend regime

###### Underlying profits of hybrids

167

167.1

This section applies where a member of a multinational group (“ M ”)—

167.1.a

is not regarded as tax transparent in the territory in which it is located,
and

167.1.b

is regarded as tax transparent in a territory in which a member of the group
with an ownership interest in it (“ G ”) is located.

167.2

Where—

167.2.a

the adjusted profits of G reflect profits of M, and

167.2.b

the basis for the profits of M being so reflected is that M (along with any
other entities through which G holds that interest) is regarded as tax
transparent in the territory in which G is located,

such profits as are reflected on that basis are to be allocated to M (and
included in the adjusted profits of M to the extent not already included) and
excluded from the adjusted profits of G.

###### Underlying profits of transparent and reverse hybrid entities

168

168.1

This section  applies where a member of a multinational group (“ M ”) is a
flow-through entity.

168.2

An entity is a flow-through entity if—

168.2.a

it is regarded as tax transparent in the territory in which it is created, and

168.2.b

it is not subject to a covered tax on its profits in another territory  as a
result of being tax resident in that territory .

168.3

A proportion of the underlying profits of M is to be allocated to each entity
or individual   (“ O ”) with an ownership interest in M in relation to which
condition A or B is met.

168.4

The proportion to be allocated to O is equal to the proportional ownership
interest O has in M in relation to which condition A or B is met (subject to
subsection  (7) ).

168.5

Condition A is that—

168.5.a

O is not regarded as tax transparent in the territory in which O is located,

168.5.b

M is regarded as tax transparent in the territory in which O is located, and

168.5.c

if O’s ownership interest in M is an indirect ownership interest in M—

168.5.c.i

each entity through which O holds that interest is regarded as tax transparent
in the territory in which O is located, and

168.5.c.ii

this condition is not met in relation to any other entity through which O’s
indirect ownership interest in M is held.

168.6

Condition B is that—

168.6.a

O is   an entity that is  a reverse hybrid entity,

168.6.b

M is regarded as tax transparent in the territory in which O is located, and

168.6.c

if O’s ownership interest in M is an indirect ownership interest—

168.6.c.i

each entity through which it is held is regarded as tax transparent in the
territory in which O is located, and

168.6.c.ii

neither condition A nor this condition is met in relation to any other entity
through which O’s indirect ownership interest in M is held.

168.7

Where—

168.7.a

underlying profits of M are allocated to an entity (“ H ”) as a result of it
meeting condition B, and

168.7.b

underlying profits of M are allocated to an entity (“ J ”) as a result of it
meeting condition A in relation to an ownership interest it holds through H,

the underlying profits to be allocated to H are to be reduced by the profits
allocated to J.

168.8

Where underlying profits of M are allocated to a member of the group of which
M is a member, those profits are to be included in the member’s adjusted
profits and excluded from the adjusted profits of M.

168.9

Where underlying profits of M—

168.9.a

are allocated to an individual or an entity that is not a member of the group
of which M is a member, or

168.9.b

would be allocated to such an individual or entity if M were regarded as tax
transparent in the territory in which the individual or entity is located,

those profits are to be excluded from the adjusted profits of M.

168.10

Any amount of M’s underlying profits not allocated to an entity  or an
individual   in accordance with this section is to be included in the adjusted
profits of M.

168.11

For the purposes of  this section , an entity (“ R ”) is a “reverse hybrid
entity” if R is regarded as tax transparent in the territory in which it   was
created, R is not tax resident in any territory   and there is a territory—

168.11.a

in which an entity with a direct ownership interest in R is located, and R is
regarded in that territory as not being tax transparent, or

168.11.b

in which an entity with an indirect ownership interest in R is located, and—

168.11.b.i

R is regarded in that territory as not being tax transparent, and

168.11.b.ii

each entity through which that ownership interest is held is regarded in that
territory as tax transparent.

168.12

For the purposes of applying this section in relation to a multinational group
whose ultimate parent is a flow-through entity, the ultimate parent is to be
treated as if it were not regarded as tax transparent in the territory in
which it is located.

###### Certain non tax resident entities to be treated as flow-through entities

169

169.1

This section applies to a member of a multinational group that—

169.1.a

is not tax resident in any territory,

169.1.b

is not subject to covered taxes,

169.1.c

does not have a place of business in the territory where it is created, and

169.1.d

is not regarded as tax transparent in the territory in which it is created.

169.2

A member of a multinational group to which this section applies is to be
treated as being regarded as tax transparent in the territory it is created to
the extent that—

169.2.a

it is tax transparent in the territory in which its owners are located, and

169.2.b

its income, expenditure, profits and losses are not attributable to a
permanent establishment.

169.3

Accordingly, such a member is to be treated as a flow-through entity.

###### Adjustments for ultimate parent that is a flow-through entity

170

170.1

Where—

170.1.a

the ultimate parent of a multinational group is a flow-through entity, and

170.1.b

on determining its adjusted profits for an accounting period (ignoring this
section), it has made a profit for that period,

those profits are to be further adjusted so as to exclude any amount of its
profits that is qualifying.

170.2

An amount of profits is qualifying if—

170.2.a

it represents an amount of the ultimate parent’s profits to which the holder
of   a direct ownership interest   in the ultimate parent is entitled as a
result of that interest, and

170.2.b

condition A, B or C is met.

170.2A

Where profits are allocated to the ultimate parent as a result of section 168
(underlying profits of transparent and reverse hybrid entities), those profits
are to be regarded, for the purposes of this section, as profits to which
holders of ownership interests in the ultimate parent are entitled (to each in
proportion to the proportion of those profits to which they would have been
entitled had those profits actually accrued to the ultimate parent).

170.3

Condition A is that the holder of the ownership interest is subject to tax on
the amount for a taxable period that ends within 12 months of the accounting
period of the group and—

170.3.a

the holder is subject to tax on the full amount of the ultimate parent’s
profits to which it is entitled at a nominal rate equal to, or in excess of,
15%, or

170.3.b

it is reasonable to expect that the sum of—

170.3.b.i

the covered taxes payable by the ultimate parent in respect of the amount of
the ultimate parent’s profits to which the holder is entitled, and

170.3.b.ii

taxes payable by the holder of the ownership interest in respect of the amount
of the ultimate parent’s profits to which the holder is entitled,

is equal to, or more than, 15% of the amount of the profits of the ultimate
parent to which the holder of the interest is entitled.

170.4

Condition B is that the holder of the ownership interest is an individual
that—

170.4.a

is tax resident in the territory of the ultimate parent, and

170.4.b

does not hold ownership interests that together entitle the person to more
than 5% of the profits and assets of the ultimate parent.

170.5

Condition C is that the holder of the ownership interest is a governmental
entity, an international organisation, a non-profit organisation or a pension
fund that—

170.5.a

is located in the territory of the ultimate parent, and

170.5.b

does not hold ownership interests that together entitle that entity to more
than 5% of the profits and assets of the ultimate parent.

170.6

Where the adjusted profits of the ultimate parent of a multinational group for
an accounting period are reduced as a result of  subsection (1) , its covered
tax balance (see  section 174 ) is—

170.6.a

in the case of a positive covered tax balance, to be reduced by the same
proportion that the underlying profits were reduced, or

170.6.b

in the case of a negative covered tax balance, to be increased by that same
proportion.

170.7

Where—

170.7.a

the ultimate parent of a multinational group is a flow-through entity,

170.7.b

on determining its adjusted profits for an accounting period (ignoring this
section), it has made a loss for that period,

those profits are to be further adjusted so as to exclude any disqualified
amount of that loss.

170.8

An amount of that loss is disqualified if the holder of an ownership interest
in the ultimate parent is allowed to use that amount in computing the holder’s
taxable income.

170.9

This section  applies to a member of a multinational group as it applies to
the ultimate parent if the member is—

170.9.a

a permanent establishment through which the ultimate parent wholly or partly
carries out its business, if the ultimate parent is a flow-through entity, or

170.9.b

a permanent establishment through which the business of a flow-through entity
is carried out, if the ultimate parent’s interest in that entity is held
directly or through one or more entities all of which are regarded as tax
transparent in the territory in which the ultimate parent is located.

###### Ultimate parent subject to qualifying dividend regime

171

171.1

Where—

171.1.a

the ultimate parent of a multinational group that is subject to a qualifying
dividend regime distributes a qualifying dividend within 12 months of the end
of its accounting period, and

171.1.b

on determination of its adjusted profits for the period, it has made a profit,

its adjusted profits for that period are to be reduced (but not below nil) by
the amount of that dividend if any one of conditions A to C is met.

171.2

Condition A is that the qualifying dividend is subject to tax in the hands of
the dividend recipient for a taxable period that ends within 12 months of the
end of the ultimate parent’s accounting period and—

171.2.a

its recipient is subject to tax on the full amount of the dividend at a
nominal rate equal to, or in excess of, 15%,

171.2.b

it is reasonable to expect that the sum of the adjusted covered taxes payable
by the ultimate parent in respect of the profits represented by the dividend
and taxes payable by the dividend recipient in respect of the dividend income
is at least the amount given by multiplying the amount of that income by 15%,
or

171.2.c

the ultimate parent is a supply cooperative and the recipient is an
individual.

171.3

For the purposes of  subsection (2)  patronage dividends made by a supply
cooperative are subject to tax to the extent they reduce an expense or cost
that is deductible in the computation of the recipient’s taxable income.

171.4

Condition B is that the recipient of the qualifying dividend is an individual
that—

171.4.a

is tax resident in the territory of the ultimate parent, and

171.4.b

does not hold ownership interests in the ultimate parent held directly, or
through entities that are regarded as tax transparent in the territory in
which the individual is tax resident, that together entitle the individual to
more than 5% of the profits and assets of the ultimate parent.

171.5

Condition C is that the recipient of the qualifying dividend is located in the
territory of the ultimate parent and is—

171.5.a

a governmental entity,

171.5.b

an international organisation,

171.5.c

a non-profit organisation, or

171.5.d

a pension fund that is not a pension services entity.

171.6

Where the underlying profits of the ultimate parent of a multinational group
for an accounting period are reduced as a result of  subsection (1) —

171.6.a

its covered tax balance, excluding any tax in respect of which a deduction for
the dividend was allowed, is—

171.6.a.i

in the case of a positive covered tax balance, to be reduced by the same
proportion that underlying profits were reduced, or

171.6.a.ii

in the case of a negative covered tax balance, to be increased by that same
proportion, and

171.6.b

its adjusted profits are to be further reduced by an amount equal to the
amount by which its covered tax balance was adjusted under  paragraph (a) .

171.7

References in  this section  to “the recipient” of a qualifying dividend
means—

171.7.a

the direct recipient of the qualifying dividend, or

171.7.b

an entity or individual with ownership interests in the direct recipient if—

171.7.b.i

in the case of an entity, it is located in a territory in which the direct
recipient, and every entity through which that ownership interest is held, is
regarded as tax transparent, or

171.7.b.ii

in the case of an individual, they are tax resident in a territory in which
the direct recipient, and every entity through which that ownership interest
is held, is regarded as tax transparent.

171.8

Where there is more than one recipient of a dividend as a result of  paragraph
(b)  of  subsection (7) —

171.8.a

this section  is to be applied separately in relation to each recipient,

171.8.b

where a recipient falls within that paragraph, references to the dividend is
to so much of the dividend to which that recipient is entitled to as a result
of its ownership interests in the direct recipient.

But a reduction of adjusted profits may not be made more than once in respect
of a dividend or a part of it (where more than one individual or entity can be
regarded as a recipient of the whole dividend or a part of it).

171.9

For the purposes of  this section  and  section 172 —

                                             “ qualifying dividend regime ”
means a tax regime designed to result in a single level of taxation on the
owners of an entity through—
a deduction from the income of the entity for distributions of profits to the
owners,
a regime where certain of the profits (“the relevant profits”) of a UK REIT or
overseas REIT equivalent are not taxed provided a sufficient proportion of the
relevant profits is distributed, or
a regime applicable to a supply cooperative that exempts the cooperative from
taxation on profits in connection with its distribution of patronage
dividends;
“ qualifying dividend ” means—
in the case of a qualifying dividend regime falling within paragraph (a) of
the definition of qualifying dividend regime, a dividend or other distribution
made to an owner of the entity,
in the case of a qualifying dividend regime falling within paragraph (b) of
the definition of qualifying dividend regime, a dividend or other distribution
which would count towards satisfying the condition that a sufficient
proportion of the relevant profits of the UK REIT or overseas REIT equivalent
have been distributed (assuming that condition had not already been met), or
in the case of a qualifying dividend regime falling within paragraph (c) of
the definition of qualifying dividend regime, a patronage dividend;
“ supply cooperative ” means a cooperative that acquires goods or services and
sells them to its members or patrons;
“ cooperative ” means an entity that collectively markets or acquires goods or
services on behalf of its members and that is subject to a tax regime in the
territory in which it is located that is designed to ensure tax neutrality in
respect of—
property or services of the members sold through the cooperative, or
property or services acquired by members through the cooperative;
“ patronage dividend ” means a distribution by a cooperative to its members.

###### Application of 

172

172.1

Subsection (2)  applies to a distribution of a qualifying dividend by a member
of a multinational group where conditions X and Y are met.

172.2

Where  this subsection  applies,  subsections (1)  and  (6)  of  section 171
apply to the distribution made by the member as it applies to a distribution
by the ultimate parent in relation to which one of conditions A to C in that
section apply.

172.3

Condition X is that the member—

172.3.a

is located in the same territory as the ultimate parent,

172.3.b

the member and the ultimate parent are subject to the same qualifying dividend
regime,

172.3.c

all of the ultimate parent’s ownership interests in the member are—

172.3.c.i

direct, or

172.3.c.ii

held solely through other members of the group who are located in that
territory and subject to the regime.

172.4

Condition Y is that—

172.4.a

the distribution of the qualifying dividend is made—

172.4.a.i

to the ultimate parent, or

172.4.a.ii

to one of the members referred to in  subsection (3) (c) (ii) ,

172.4.b

in the case of a distribution made to the ultimate parent, the whole of the
qualifying dividend is distributed by the ultimate parent and one of the
conditions A to C in  section 171  applies to each of the distributions made
from the qualifying dividend, and

172.4.c

in the case of a distribution made to one of the members referred to in
subsection (3) (c) (ii) —

172.4.c.i

the whole of the dividend is distributed to the ultimate parent, or to one of
the members referred to in that subsection provided the whole amount is
eventually distributed to the ultimate parent via one or more further
distributions to members referred to in that subsection, and

172.4.c.ii

the ultimate parent distributes the whole of the dividend and one of
conditions A to C in  section 171  applies to each of the distributions made
from the qualifying dividend.

172.5

For the purposes of this section, it is to be assumed that —

172.5.a

where the ultimate parent, or a member referred to in  subsection (3) (c) (ii)
, has received the whole of the qualifying dividend, but has also received
other distributions or has other income, any subsequent distribution by the
ultimate parent or member is funded first by the qualifying dividend and then
by any other amounts, and

172.5.b

where the ultimate parent receives amounts from members referred to in
subsection (3) (c) (ii) , those amounts fund distributions that meet one of
conditions A to C in  section 171  before distributions that do not.

#### Covered tax balance

##### Amount of covered taxes

###### Covered taxes

173

173.1

The following are covered taxes in relation to a member of a multinational
group—

173.1.a

taxes on profits of that member (including, where it has direct or indirect
ownership interests in another member of the group, taxes on its share of the
income or profits of that other member),

173.1.b

taxes imposed on the member under an eligible distribution tax system,

173.1.c

taxes imposed on the member as a substitute for a tax on profits that
generally applies in the territory   in which the tax is imposed , and

173.1.d

taxes charged by reference to the capital of a company, or by reference to its
capital and profits.

173.2

But none of the following are to be regarded as covered taxes—

173.2.a

multinational top-up tax, or any tax equivalent to multinational top-up tax;

173.2.b

a qualifying domestic top-up tax (see  section 256 );

173.2.c

a qualifying undertaxed profits tax (see  section 257 );

173.2.d

a disqualified refundable imputation tax (see  section 253 );

173.2.e

where the member carries on a life assurance business, taxes in respect of
which amounts were charged to the member’s policyholders.

###### Amount of covered tax balance

174

174.1

To determine the covered tax balance of a member of a multinational group for
an accounting period—

Step 1 Determine the amount of the qualifying current tax expense accrued by
the member for that period. Step 2 Determine whether any amounts need to be
excluded from that expense under  section 175  (and adjust it accordingly).
Step 3 Determine whether any amounts need to be reflected in that expense
under  section 176  (and adjust it accordingly). Step 4 If any amount of
covered taxes is taken into account more than once in the covered tax balance
expense, adjust it so that the amount is only taken into account once.

174.2

For the purposes of  this Part , current tax expense is to be expressed—

174.2.a

as a positive number where it represents an expense, and

174.2.b

as a negative number where it represents a credit.

174.3

If the result of  subsection (1)  is a negative amount that amount (expressed
as a positive number) is a “negative covered tax balance”.

174.4

If the result of  subsection (1)  is a positive amount, or nil, that amount is
a “positive covered tax balance”.

174.5

In  this Part —

references to the “ covered tax balance ” of a member of a multinational group
are to a positive covered tax balance or a negative covered tax balance; “
qualifying current tax expense ” means the amount of the current tax expense
as reflected in the member’s underlying profits to the extent the expense
relates to covered taxes.

###### Amounts excluded from covered tax balance

175

175.1

The amounts referred to in  subsection (2)  are to be excluded from a member
of a multinational group’s qualifying current tax expense (to the extent they
would otherwise be included).

175.2

Those amounts are as follows—

175.2.a

any amount that relates to income or gains that are not included in the
member’s adjusted profits;

175.2.b

any amount that relates to an uncertain tax position;

175.2.c

any amount of credit or refund in respect of a qualifying refundable tax
credit   , or in respect of a marketable transferable tax credit,  that is
recorded as a reduction of qualifying current tax expense;

175.2.d

any amount that is not expected to be paid before the end of the period of
three years commencing with the first day after the end of the accounting
period;

175.2.e

any amount allocated to another member of the multinational group in
accordance with this Part;

175.2.f

any amount excluded under  section 180 (3) (b)  (blended CFC regime).

###### Amounts to be reflected in covered tax balance

176

176.1

The amounts referred to in  subsection (2)  are to be reflected in a member of
a multinational group’s qualifying current tax expense (to the extent they
were not already reflected).

176.2

Those amounts are as follows—

176.2.a

any amount of covered taxes reflected in the member’s underlying profits but
which (ignoring  this paragraph ) is not reflected in the qualifying current
tax expense;

176.2.b

the total deferred tax adjustment amount (see  section 182 );

176.2.c

any amount of covered taxes paid, or refunded, in the current accounting
period that relates to an uncertain tax position where the amount was excluded
under  section 175 (2) (b)  for a previous accounting period;

176.2.d

any amount of credit or refund in respect of a tax credit (whether refundable
or not) that—

176.2.d.i

is not a qualifying refundable tax credit  or a marketable transferable tax
credit , and

176.2.d.ii

has not been reflected in its qualifying current tax expense in the current
accounting period or a previous accounting period (see  section 148 );

176.2.e

any amount of covered taxes refunded or credited to the member, other than a
qualifying refundable tax credit  or a marketable transferable tax credit ;

176.2.f

where  section 187 (5)  applies in relation to the member, the amount of
special loss deferred tax assets used, in accordance with  section 187 (7) ,
by the member for the current accounting period;

176.2.g

any amount of covered taxes recorded in other comprehensive income of the
member relating to amounts included in determining its adjusted profits that
are subject to covered taxes under the law of the territory in which the
member is located;

176.2.h

any amount of covered taxes relating to an amount reflected in the member’s
adjusted profits as a result of  section 146  (adjustment for changes in
accounting polices and prior period errors);

176.2.i

any amount allocated to the member from another member of the multinational
group.

176.3

For the purposes of  this Part —

176.3.a

an amount of tax paid or tax expense is to be expressed as a positive number,
and

176.3.b

an amount of tax credit or refund is to be expressed as a negative number.

##### Transferable tax credits

###### Meaning of “non-marketable transferable tax credits”

176A

176A.1

Sections 176B and 176C make provision about “non-marketable transferable tax
credits”.

176A.2

A tax credit held by a member of a multinational group that is the originator
of the credit is a non-marketable transferable tax credit if—

176A.2.a

it may be transferred to another person or entity, and

176A.2.b

it is neither a marketable transferable tax credit nor a qualifying refundable
tax credit.

176A.3

A tax credit held by a member of a multinational group as a purchaser of the
credit is a non-marketable transferable tax credit if it is neither a
marketable transferable tax credit nor a qualifying refundable tax credit.

176A.4

In this section and in sections 176B and 176C “originator” and “purchaser” are
to be construed in accordance with section 148A(1)(a).

###### Value of non-marketable transferable tax credits: originator

176B

176B.1

The covered tax balance of a member of a multinational group that holds a non-
marketable transferable tax credit as originator is to be adjusted to secure
that the value of the credit is reflected as follows.

176B.2

The value of the tax credit is to be reflected as it is used.

176B.3

If the credit is transferred (after the end of the period of 15 months after
the accounting period in which the credit is granted), the consideration for
the transfer is to be reflected as a credit in the accounting period in which
the transfer occurred.

###### Value of non-marketable transferable tax credits: purchaser

176C

176C.1

The covered tax balance of a member of a multinational group that holds a non-
marketable transferable tax credit as purchaser is to be adjusted to secure
that the value the credit is reflected as follows.

176C.2

On using an amount of the credit, the amount given by subsection (3) is to be
reflected as a credit in the covered tax balance for the accounting period in
which it is used.

176C.3

That amount is the amount given by multiplying—

176C.3.a

the amount used divided by the full value of the credit, by

176C.3.b

the amount given by subtracting the purchase price of the credit from the full
value of the credit.

176C.4

On transferring the credit, the amount in subsection (5) is—

176C.4.a

if positive, to be reflected as a credit in the covered tax balance for the
accounting period in which the transfer occurred, or

176C.4.b

if negative, to be reflected as a loss in the underlying profits of the member
for that period.

176C.5

That amount is the amount given by subtracting—

176C.5.a

the sum of—

176C.5.a.i

the purchase price of the credit, and

176C.5.a.ii

any amounts recognised reflected in the covered tax balance in accordance with
subsection (2) (whether in that accounting period or a previous accounting
period), from

176C.5.b

the sum of—

176C.5.b.i

the amount of the credit that has been used, and

176C.5.b.ii

the consideration for the transfer.

176C.6

Where the credit has not been transferred, and was not fully used, before its
expiry, the amount in subsection (7) is to be reflected as a loss in the
underlying profits of the member for the accounting period in which the credit
expired.

176C.7

That amount is the amount given by subtracting—

176C.7.a

the amount of the credit that was used, from

176C.7.b

the sum of the purchase price of the credit and any amounts recognised in
accordance with subsection (2).

##### Tax equity partnerships

###### Tax credits etc allocated under tax equity partnerships

176D

176D.1

Where—

176D.1.a

a member of a multinational group is an investor in a tax equity partnership
arrangement, and

176D.1.b

an election under section 165 (excluded equity gains and losses included)
applies in relation to the member for an accounting period,

qualifying flow-through tax benefits provided to the member under that
arrangement in that period are to be excluded from the covered tax balance of
that member for that period.

176D.2

“ Flow-through tax benefits ” means tax credits, other than qualifying
refundable tax credits, and the value of amounts of tax deductible losses made
available to be used by an investor in a tax equity partnership arrangement
under that arrangement (whether or not those credits or losses are used by the
investor).

176D.3

Section 176E (proportional amortisation method) applies for the purposes of
determining the extent to which flow-through tax benefits are “qualifying”
where—

176D.3.a

in determining the underlying profits of the investor, the proportional
amortisation method is used to account for the arrangement, or

176D.3.b

the filing member of the multinational group of which the investor is a member
has elected that section 176D should apply for those purposes in relation to
the member.

176D.4

Otherwise, section 176F (subtraction method) applies for those purposes.

176D.5

For the purposes of this Part, a member of a multinational group is an
investor in a tax equity partnership arrangement if—

176D.5.a

the member has made an investment in an entity that is tax transparent in the
territory in which the member is located,

176D.5.b

the investment is treated as an equity interest for tax purposes in the
territory in which the member is located,

176D.5.c

the investment would, under an authorised accounting standard of the territory
in which the entity operates, be treated as an equity interest,

176D.5.d

the entity is not a member of the multinational group, and

176D.5.e

it is reasonable to expect, at the time of making the investment, that the
return on the investment would be negative in the absence of the provision of
flow-through tax benefits.

176D.6

But a member of a multinational group is not to be regarded as an investor in
a tax equity partnership arrangement if—

176D.6.a

the investment in the entity does not represent a genuine economic interest in
that entity such that the member is exposed to the possibility of a loss on
the investment, or

176D.6.b

the territory in which the member is located limits the use of tax equity
partnership arrangements to arrangements that involve a multinational group
subject to multinational top-up tax or its equivalent under the law of a
territory outside the United Kingdom.

176D.7

Flow-through tax benefits provided to a member of a multinational group in an
accounting period that are not qualifying are to be reflected as a credit in
the covered tax balance for that period.

176D.8

Flow-through tax benefits (whether qualifying or not) provided to a member of
a multinational group are not to be reflected in the underlying profits of
that member, even if that would be the effect of the election under section
165.

176D.9

For the purposes of subsection (3)(a), the “ proportional amortisation method
” means a method of accounting under which—

176D.9.a

the initial capital investment in the arrangement is amortised over the term
of the investment with the amortisation expense for an accounting period based
on the proportion of the flow-through tax benefits expected to be provided
over the term of the arrangement that are expected to be provided in that
period, and

176D.9.b

the difference between the flow-through tax benefits received in an accounting
period and that amortisation expense for that period is reflected as tax
expense.

176D.10

For the purposes of this section and sections 176E and 176F, the value of an
amount of tax deductible losses made available to be used by an investor is
given by multiplying the amount multiplied by the tax rate that applies to the
investor.

176D.11

Paragraph 2 of Schedule 15 (annual elections) applies to an election under
subsection (3)(b).

###### Flow-through tax benefits: proportional amortisation method

176E

176E.1

Where this section applies, to determine the extent to which flow-through tax
benefits provided to an investor in an accounting period under a tax equity
partnership arrangement are qualifying, take the following steps—

Step 1 Determine the amount of capital investment provided by the investor to
the arrangement at its commencement. Step 2 Divide the flow-through through
tax benefits provided under the arrangement in the accounting period by the
total flow-through tax benefits expected to be provided over the whole term of
the arrangement. Step 3 Multiply the result of Step 1 by the result of Step 2.
Step 4 Add the following together— the amounts, if any, of tax credits made
available to be used by the investor under the arrangement in the accounting
period; the value of the amounts, if any, of tax deductible losses made
available to be used by the investor under the arrangement in the accounting
period; the amounts, if any, of distributions made to the investor in the
accounting period; the amounts, if any, received by the investor for the sale
of any part of its investment in the arrangement in the accounting period.
Step 5 If the result of Step 3 is equal to or greater than the result of Step
4, all of the flow-through tax benefits provided under the arrangement in the
accounting period are qualifying. Otherwise proceed to Step 6. Step 6 Subtract
the result of Step 3 from the result of Step 4. Step 7 The amount of the flow-
through benefits provided under the arrangement in the accounting period that
is qualifying is the amount given by reducing the amount of those benefits
(but not below nil) by the result of Step 6.

176E.2

Accordingly, the amount by which those benefits are reduced in accordance with
Step 7 represents non-qualifying flow-through tax benefits which are to be
reflected as a credit in the investor’s covered tax balance.

###### Flow-through tax benefits: subtraction method

176F

Where this section applies, to determine the extent to which flow-through tax
benefits provided to an investor in an accounting period under a tax equity
partnership arrangement are qualifying, take the following steps—

Step 1 Determine the amount of capital investment provided by the investor to
the arrangement at its commencement. Step 2 Subtract the following from that
amount— the amounts, if any, of tax credits made available to be used by the
investor under the arrangement since the commencement of the arrangement,
other than tax credits that are not qualifying refundable tax credits that
were made available in the accounting period; the value of the amounts, if
any, of tax deductible losses made available to be used by the investor under
the arrangement since its commencement, other than losses made available in
the accounting period; the amounts, if any, of distributions made to the
investor since the arrangement’s commencement; the amounts, if any, received
by the investor for the sale of any part of its investment in the arrangement.
Step 3 If the result of Step 2 is nil or less, no flow-through tax benefits
provided under arrangement in the accounting period are qualifying. If the
result of that step is more than nil, proceed to Step 4. Step 4 Subtract the
flow-through tax benefits provided to the investor in the accounting period
under the arrangement from the result of Step 2. Step 5 If the result of Step
4 is nil or greater, all of the flow-through tax benefits provided under the
arrangement in the accounting period are qualifying. Otherwise, the amount of
those benefits that is qualifying is the amount of those benefits that when
subtracted from the result of Step 2 would give a result of nil.

##### Allocation of covered taxes

###### Permanent establishments

177

177.1

Any amount of qualifying current tax expense included in the underlying
profits accounts of a member of a multinational group that is in respect of
profits of a permanent establishment is to be allocated to the permanent
establishment  (and is to be regarded as qualifying current tax expense of the
permanent establishment for the purposes of applying section 175(2)(a)) .

177.2

Where profits of a permanent establishment are treated as income of the main
entity as a result of  section 160 (5) , covered taxes on those profits are to
be allocated to the main entity.

177.3

But the amount allocated in accordance with  subsection (2)  is not to exceed
the amount given by multiplying the amount of those profits by the highest
corporate tax rate on ordinary income in the territory where the main entity
is located.

177.4

Any deferred tax asset with respect to a loss arising in the territory of a
permanent establishment that is treated as an expense of the main entity as a
result of section  160 (2)  is to be ignored in determining the covered tax
balance of either the main entity or the permanent establishment.

###### Reallocation of tax expense

178

178.1

Where—

178.1.a

profits have been allocated to a member of a multinational group (“ O ”) under
section 167  or  168  (allocation of profits of hybrid, transparent and
reverse hybrid entities), and

178.1.b

the member from whom the profits have been allocated has an amount of
qualifying current tax expense in respect of those profits,

that qualifying   current  tax expense is to be allocated to O.

178.1A

Where—

178.1A.a

a member of a multinational group has an amount of qualifying current tax
expense,

178.1A.b

that amount is in respect of profits not included in the member’s underlying
profits, and

178.1A.c

if those profits had been included in the member’s underlying profits, a
corresponding amount of adjusted profits would have been allocated to another
member of the group (“ O ”) under section 167 or 168,

that qualifying current tax expense is to be allocated to O (and is to be
regarded as qualifying current tax expense of O for the purposes of applying
section 175(2)(a)).

178.1B

Section 175(2)(a) (exclusion of amounts relating to income or gains not
included in adjusted profits) applies to an amount of qualifying current tax
expense allocated in accordance with subsection (1) as if—

178.1B.a

the reference to the member’s adjusted profits were to the adjusted profits of
the member from whom the amount of qualifying current tax expense was
allocated, and

178.1B.b

profits allocated from that member to O under section 167 or 168 were not
excluded from the adjusted profits of that member.

178.2

But the amount of qualifying current tax expense in respect of mobile income
allocated to O  (under subsections (1) and (1A))   is not to exceed the amount
given by taking the following steps—

Step 1 Determine the effective tax rate of the members of the multinational
group in the territory of O for the accounting period to which the qualifying
current tax expense relates, ignoring that expense. Step 2 Subtract the result
of Step 1 from 15%. Step 3 Multiply the result of Step 2 by the amount of
mobile income to which the qualifying tax expense relates.

178.3

For the purposes of  this section  and  section 179 , “ mobile income ” means
income of a type mentioned in  subsection (4)  in respect of which a member of
a multinational group is subject to tax—

178.3.a

under a controlled foreign company tax regime (see  section 179 (4) ), or

178.3.b

as a result of an ownership interest in an entity regarded as tax transparent
in the territory the member is located in but not so regarded in the territory
in which that entity is located.

178.4

Those types of income are—

178.4.a

dividends or dividend equivalents,

178.4.b

interest or interest equivalent,

178.4.c

rent,

178.4.d

a royalty,

178.4.e

an annuity, or

178.4.f

net gains from property of a type that produces income described in
paragraphs (a)  to  (e) .

178.5

Where an amount of qualifying current tax expense would have been allocated to
O, but the amount allocated is limited as a result of subsection (2) the
amount not allocated remains with the member from whom it otherwise would have
been allocated.

178.6

But if an amount would, ignoring this subsection, remain with the member from
whom it would have otherwise been allocated, and that amount relates to income
or gains that are not included in the adjusted profits of O, that amount is to
be excluded from the covered tax balance of both the member and O.

###### Controlled foreign company tax regimes

179

179.1

Where—

179.1.a

a member of a multinational group (“ C ”) is subject to a controlled foreign
company tax regime, and

179.1.b

C has an ownership interest in another member of the group (“ F ”) that is a
CFC entity   in relation to C,

any amount of qualifying current tax expense included in C’s underlying
profits accounts with respect to tax on C’s share of the profits of F are to
be allocated to F (to the extent it has not already been allocated as a result
of another provision of this Part).

179.1A

Qualifying current tax expense allocated to F is to be regarded as qualifying
current tax expense of F for the purposes of applying section 175(2)(a).

179.2

But the amount of qualifying current tax expense in respect of mobile income
allocated to F is not to exceed the amount given by taking the following
steps—

Step 1 Determine the effective tax rate of the members of the multinational
group in the territory of F for the accounting period to which the qualifying
current tax expense relates, ignoring that expense. Step 2 Subtract the result
of Step 1 from 15%. Step 3 Multiply the result of Step 2 by the amount of
mobile income to which the qualifying current tax expense relates.

179.3

Subsection (1)  does not apply to a controlled foreign company tax regime that
is a blended CFC regime in accounting periods commencing on or before 31
December 2025 that end on or before 30 June 2027.

179.3A

Where an amount of qualifying current tax expense would have been allocated to
F but the amount allocated is limited as a result of subsection (2), the
amount not allocated remains with C.

179.3B

But if an amount would, ignoring this subsection, remain with C and that
amount relates to income or gains that are not included in the adjusted
profits of F, that amount is to be excluded from the covered tax balance of
both C and F.

179.4

In this Part—

“ controlled foreign company tax regime ” means a set of tax rules (other than
multinational top-up tax or any tax equivalent to multinational top-up tax)
under which an entity with an ownership interest in another entity located in
a different territory (“the controlled foreign company”) is subject to current
taxation on its share of part or all of the income earned by the controlled
foreign company, irrespective of whether that income is distributed currently
to it;   “ CFC entity ”, in relation to a member of a multinational group who
is subject to a controlled foreign company tax regime, means— a controlled
foreign company in relation to that member, a permanent establishment of such
a controlled foreign company, or an entity whose profits are treated, for the
purposes of the regime, as the profits of such a controlled foreign company;
“ blended CFC regime ” means a controlled foreign company tax regime— under
which the income, losses and creditable taxes of all of the controlled foreign
companies of the entity with ownership interests in them are aggregated for
the purposes of calculating the entity’s tax liability under the regime, that
does not take into account the income of the entity, or members of a
consolidated group of which the entity is a member, that arises in the
location of the entity, apart from to the extent the entity may use its losses
arising in that location to reduce its liability under the regime, and which
operates by reference to a rate which reflects a threshold for low taxation.

###### Blended CFC regimes

180

180.1

This section  applies to accounting periods commencing on or before 31
December 2025 that end on or before 30 June 2027.

180.2

Subsection (3)  applies where—

180.2.a

a member of a multinational group (“ C ”) is subject to a blended CFC regime
in an accounting period (“ the relevant period ”),

180.2.b

C has an ownership interest in an entity (“ F ”) that is a  ... CFC entity in
relation to C, and

180.2.c

the blended CFC allocation key of F is greater than nil.

180.3

The appropriate proportion of tax charged to C under that regime (after all
deductions and use of any losses) is—

180.3.a

where F is a member of the same multinational group as C, to be allocated to
F, or

180.3.b

where F is not a member of that group, to be excluded from the covered tax
balance of C.

180.4

The appropriate proportion is the proportion given by dividing the blended CFC
allocation key for F for the relevant period by the sum of all blended CFC
allocation keys for that period of  ... CFC entities in which C has an
ownership interest.

180.5

The blended CFC allocation key for the relevant period of a  ... CFC entity
that C has an ownership interest in is the amount given by multiplying—

180.5.a

the attributable income of C  in relation to the CFC entity , by

180.5.b

the percentage given by subtracting the applicable effective tax rate of the
... CFC entity for the relevant period from the applicable CFC rate for that
period.

180.6

But where—

180.6.a

the result of  subsection (5) (b)  in relation to a  ... CFC entity is less
than nil, or

180.6.b

the applicable effective tax rate of that entity is greater than 15%,

the blended CFC allocation key for that entity is to be treated as nil.

180.7

The attributable income of C   in relation to a CFC entity in which C has an
ownership interest  means C’s share of the income of   the entity   for the
relevant period determined as it would be determined for the purposes of
the blended CFC regime.

180.8

The applicable effective tax rate of a  ... CFC entity for the relevant period
is—

180.8.a

where it is located in a territory in which the effective tax rate of members
of the multinational group of which C is a member is calculated for that
period, that effective tax rate as it would be calculated if—

180.8.a.i

any tax arising under a blended CFC regime were ignored, and

180.8.a.ii

where the blended CFC regime permits foreign tax credit in respect of a
qualifying domestic top-up tax on the same basis it would be permitted for
covered taxes, that qualifying domestic top-up tax were a covered tax, or

180.8.b

where it is not located in such a territory, the effective tax rate that would
be calculated for the relevant period for the  ... CFC entities located in
that territory in which C has an ownership interest if—

180.8.b.i

those entities were members of a multinational group whose ultimate parent’s
accounting period is the same as the relevant period,

180.8.b.ii

the result of Step 2 in section 132(1) for those entities were the aggregate
of their profits (and losses) before tax as shown in their financial accounts,

180.8.b.iia

the combined covered tax balance for those entities were the aggregate of the
taxes shown in their financial accounts,

180.8.b.iii

any tax arising under a blended CFC regime were ignored, and

180.8.b.iv

where the blended CFC regime permits foreign tax credit in respect of a
qualifying domestic top-up tax on the same basis it would be permitted for
covered taxes, that qualifying domestic top-up tax were a covered tax.

180.9

The applicable CFC rate for the relevant period means the rate which reflects
the threshold for low taxation by reference to which the blended CFC regime is
generally operated, taking into account any credit for foreign taxes available
under the regime.

180.10

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

###### Distributions from other members of a group

181

181.1

Where qualifying current tax expense in respect of covered taxes accrued in an
accounting period in the underlying profits accounts of a member of a
multinational group (“ R ”) is in respect of a distribution received from
another member of the group (“ D ”) in which R has a direct ownership
interest, that expense is to be allocated to D.

181.2

Reference in  subsection (1)  to a distribution received is to be treated as
including deemed distributions taken account of for the purposes of taxes on a
shareholder of an entity in respect of undistributed earnings or capital of
the entity.

##### Dealing with deferred tax assets etc

###### Total deferred tax adjustment amount

182

182.1

The total deferred tax adjustment amount for a member of a multinational group
for an accounting period is the deferred tax expense relating to covered taxes
reflected in the member’s underlying profits, adjusted as follows.

182.2

The deferred tax expense is to be adjusted to exclude the following—

182.2.a

any amount of that expense that reflects items not reflected in the member’s
adjusted profits;

182.2.b

any amount of that expense that reflects disallowed accruals or unclaimed
accruals;

182.2.c

the impact of a valuation adjustment or accounting recognition adjustment with
respect to a deferred tax asset;

182.2.d

any amount of that expense arising from a re-measurement with respect to a
change in the rate of tax;

182.2.e

any amount of that expense that reflects the generation or use of tax credits
(but see  section 183  which permits the inclusion of qualifying foreign tax
credits).

182.3

Where a deferred tax liability is reversed in an accounting period, and that
deferred tax liability was treated as an unclaimed accrual in a previous
accounting period, the deferred tax expense is to be increased by the amount
of the deferred tax liability that has reversed.

182.4

Where a deferred tax asset is not reflected in the deferred tax expense only
as a result of the recognition criteria not being met, that deferred tax asset
is to be reflected in the total deferred tax adjustment amount.

182.5

Where the amount of a deferred tax asset is adjusted as a result of  section
186 , an amount equal to that adjustment is to be reflected in the total
deferred tax adjustment amount.

182.6

Where an amount of recaptured deferred tax liability (see  section 184 ) that
was determined for a previous accounting period is reversed during the
accounting period, that amount is to be reflected in the total deferred tax
adjustment amount.

182.7

Where the deferred tax expense relates to covered taxes where the rate is
greater than 15%, the amount of that expense (after adjustment under
subsections (2)  to  (6) ) is to be adjusted so that it reflects the amount it
would have been had the rate been 15%.

182.8

For the purposes of  this section —

“ disallowed accrual ” means— any movement in deferred tax expense reflected
in the member’s underlying profits which relates to an uncertain tax position,
or any movement in deferred tax expense reflected in those profits which
relates to distributions from another member of that group; “ unclaimed
accrual ” means an increase in a deferred tax liability reflected in the
member’s underlying profits for an accounting period— that is not expected to
be reversed before the end of the fifth accounting period after that period,
and in respect of which the filing member has elected not to include in the
total deferred tax adjustment amount for that period. Paragraph 2  of
Schedule 15  (annual elections) applies to an election not to include an
unclaimed accrual in the total deferred tax adjustment amount.

###### Qualifying foreign tax credits (substitute loss carry forward assets)

183

183.1

A qualifying foreign tax credit of a member of a multinational group is to be
included in the member’s total deferred tax adjustment amount.

183.2

A foreign tax credit is qualifying if—

183.2.a

the territory in which the member is located—

183.2.a.i

requires that domestic losses are offset against relevant foreign income
before foreign tax credits can be applied against tax on foreign income, and

183.2.a.ii

permits foreign tax credits to be used to offset tax on domestic profits to
the extent to which domestic losses have been offset against relevant foreign
income in a previous taxable period,

183.2.b

the member has used a domestic loss to offset (in whole or in part) relevant
foreign income, and

183.2.c

the foreign tax credit is in respect of tax imposed by another territory on
that foreign income.

183.3

The amount that may be included in the total deferred tax adjustment amount of
the member is the lesser of—

183.3.a

the foreign tax paid, and

183.3.b

the amount of domestic loss used to offset the relevant foreign income,
multiplied by the tax rate   in the territory in which the member is located .

183.4

Section 182 (7)  (adjustment where rate of tax exceeds 15%) applies to a
qualifying   foreign  tax credit included in the member’s total deferred tax
adjustment amount as it applies to the member’s deferred tax expense.

183.5

In  this section   and in section 183A   “ relevant foreign income ”, in
relation to a member of a multinational group, means income of a controlled
foreign company of the member on which the member is taxed as a result of a
controlled foreign company tax regime.

###### Alternative to section 183 where carry forward of credits not permitted

183A

183A.1

A special foreign tax asset of a member of a multinational group is to be used
to increase its covered tax balance in accordance with this section.

183A.2

Subsection (3) applies where—

183A.2.a

the territory in which a member of a multinational group is located requires
that domestic losses are offset against relevant foreign income before foreign
tax credits can be applied against tax on foreign income,

183A.2.b

the territory limits the extent to which foreign tax credits can be applied
against tax in a taxable period,

183A.2.c

the territory allows foreign tax credits to be used to a greater extent where
a domestic loss has been used to offset (in whole or in part) relevant foreign
income in a prior period, and

183A.2.d

the member has used a domestic loss to offset (in whole or in part) relevant
foreign income.

183A.3

Where this subsection applies, the member has a special foreign tax asset
arising in the accounting period in which the loss was used.

183A.4

The amount of that special foreign tax asset is the amount of the domestic
loss used to offset relevant foreign income multiplied by the lesser of—

183A.4.a

the nominal rate of tax in the member’s territory for the taxable period in
which it was used, and

183A.4.b

15%.

183A.5

Where a member of a multinational group has a special foreign tax asset that
arose in any previous accounting period, the member is to use that amount to
increase its covered tax balance.

183A.6

The amount of the special foreign tax asset that is to be used in an
accounting period is the lesser of—

183A.6.a

the amount of the asset, and

183A.6.b

so much of the amount of foreign tax credits credited against tax in the
taxable period corresponding to that accounting period as is capable of being
credited only as a result of the prior use of the domestic loss.

Any remainder continues to be a special foreign tax asset (and is available
for use in subsequent account periods where subsection (5) applies).

###### Recaptured deferred tax liabilities

184

184.1

A member of a multinational group has a recaptured deferred tax liability if
it has a deferred tax liability, other than an excluded liability, taken into
account in its total deferred tax adjustment amount for an accounting period
(“the initial period”) that is not reversed before the end of the fifth
accounting period after the initial period.

184.2

Where a member of a multinational group has a recaptured deferred tax
liability—

184.2.a

the amount included in the total deferred tax adjustment amount for the
initial period in relation to that recaptured deferred tax liability is to be
excluded from its covered tax balance for that period, and

184.2.b

the following are to be accordingly recalculated for the initial period—

184.2.b.i

the effective tax rate for the member and the other members of that group
located in the same territory, and

184.2.b.ii

the top-up amounts that those members would have.

184.3

Section 206  applies to recalculations under  subsection (2) .

184.4

For the purposes of  subsection (1)  “ excluded liability ” means a tax
expense attributable to changes in associated deferred tax liabilities in
respect of—

184.4.a

cost recovery allowances on tangible assets,

184.4.b

the cost of a licence or similar arrangement from the government for the use
of immovable property or exploitation of natural resources that entails
significant investment in tangible assets,

184.4.c

research and development expenses,

184.4.d

de-commissioning and remediation expenses,

184.4.e

fair value accounting on unrealised net gains,

184.4.f

foreign currency exchange net gains,

184.4.g

insurance reserves and insurance policy deferred acquisition costs,

184.4.h

gains from the sale of tangible property located in the same territory as the
member that are reinvested in tangible property in the same territory, or

184.4.i

additional amounts accrued as a result of accounting principle changes with
respect to things falling within any of  paragraphs (a)  to  (h) .

###### Inclusion of existing deferred tax assets and liabilities on entry into regime

185

185.1

This section  applies to deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities of a
member of a multinational group as at the beginning of the first accounting
period for which Pillar Two rules apply to it that is reflected in its
underlying profits accounts (and the adjustments set out in  this section
apply instead of those set out in  section 182 (2)  to  (7) ).

185.2

Each such asset and liability is to be taken into account in determining the
member’s deferred tax expense—

185.2.a

if the nominal tax rate in relation to the asset  or liability —

185.2.a.i

is less than 15% and  subsection (3)  does not apply, at its nominal tax rate,

185.2.a.ii

is 15% or more, as if the rate of tax to which the asset or liability related
was 15%,

185.2.b

in the case of a deferred tax asset, excluding the impact of a valuation
adjustment or accounting recognition adjustment with respect to it.

185.3

But where—

185.3.a

the nominal tax rate in relation to the asset is less than 15%, and

185.3.b

the member can demonstrate that a deferred tax asset is attributable to the
fact of the member having a loss which would have been taken account of in
determining adjusted profits had those profits been determined under  this
Part ,

that asset is to be taken into account in determining the member’s deferred
tax expense as if the rate of tax to which the asset related was 15%.

185.4

Where a deferred tax asset relates to a tax credit neither  subsection (2) (a)
nor  (3)  applies.

185.5

If the nominal tax rate that applies on the reversal of such a tax asset
exceeds 15%, the amount of the reversal is to be treated as if it were the
amount given by multiplying—

185.5.a

the amount given by dividing—

185.5.a.i

the amount of the deferred tax expense in the underlying profits accounts in
respect of that deferred tax asset, by

185.5.a.ii

the nominal tax rate that applied on the reversal, by

185.5.b

15%.

185.6

Subsection (7)  applies to a deferred tax asset of a member of a qualifying
multinational group that arises—

185.6.a

as a result of a transaction made after 30 November 2021 and before the
commencement of the first accounting period for which Pillar Two rules apply
to it, and

185.6.b

in relation to an item that either—

185.6.b.i

is included in the member’s taxable income but which would not be included in
the member’s adjusted profits (had those profits been determined under  this
Part ), or

185.6.b.ii

is not included in the member’s taxable income but which would be included in
the member’s adjusted profits (had those profits been determined under  this
Part ).

185.7

A deferred tax asset to which  this subsection  applies is to be ignored in
determining the member’s deferred tax expense.

###### Deferred tax assets recorded at less than minimum rate

186

186.1

This section  applies where the value of a deferred tax asset of a member of a
multinational group—

186.1.a

is calculated on the basis of a tax rate of less than 15%, and

186.1.b

is attributable to an accounting period in which the member’s adjusted profits
were a loss.

186.2

But this section only applies in relation to a deferred tax asset of the
member falling within subsection (1) if the filing member accounts for all
such assets of the member in accordance with this section in an information
return submitted to HMRC or a qualifying authority (see paragraph 10(5) of
Schedule 14).

186.3

Subsection (4)  applies where the loss for the accounting period upon which
the value of that asset was calculated does not exceed the loss established on
determining the member’s adjusted profits for that period.

186.4

Where  this subsection  applies, the asset is to be treated as having the
value it would have if the tax rate upon which it was calculated were 15%.

186.5

Subsection (6)  applies where the loss for the accounting period upon which
the value of that asset was calculated exceeds the loss established on
determining the member’s adjusted profits for that period.

186.6

The relevant part of the asset is to be treated as having the value of a
deferred tax asset generated on the loss established on determining the
member’s adjusted profits on the basis of a tax rate of 15%.

186.7

The “relevant part” of the asset means so much of the asset derived from an
amount of loss that does not exceed the loss established on determining the
member’s adjusted profits.

186.8

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

###### Election for losses to be treated as special loss deferred tax assets

187

187.1

The filing member of a multinational group may elect that  this section
applies to all of the standard members of the group in a particular territory
(“the relevant territory”).

187.2

An election under  subsection (1) —

187.2.a

must be made having effect for the first accounting period in which the Pillar
Two rules apply to any standard member in the relevant territory,

187.2.b

may not otherwise be made (and accordingly if the election is revoked it
cannot be made again), and

187.2.c

may not be made for a territory that has an eligible distribution tax system.

187.3

Where  this section  applies to the standard members of a multinational group
for an accounting period—

187.3.a

none of those members has a total deferred tax adjustment amount for that
period, and

187.3.b

if the result of Step 2 in  section 132 (1)  in relation to those members is
nil or less (those members between them have made a loss), the amount of that
result (expressed as a positive number) multiplied by 15% is a special loss
deferred tax asset of those members.

187.4

Subsection (5)  applies where—

187.4.a

this section  applies in relation to the standard members of a multinational
group in a territory for an accounting period,

187.4.b

the result of Step 2 in  section 132 (1)  in relation to those members is
greater than nil, and

187.4.c

those members have one or more special loss deferred tax assets.

187.5

Where  this subsection  applies, the standard members of the group that have
made a profit in that accounting period are to use those assets in that period
to increase their covered tax balances in accordance with  subsections (6)
and  (7) .

187.6

The amount of the special loss deferred tax assets that is to be used is the
lesser of—

187.6.a

the amount of the assets, and

187.6.b

the result of Step 2 in section 132(1) multiplied by 15%.

Any remainder continues to be a special loss deferred tax asset of the
relevant members of the group (and is available for use in subsequent
accounting periods   in which the election has effect ).

187.7

Each of the standard members that made a profit in that period is to use the
proportion of the amount to be used in accordance with  subsection (6)  that
is equal to the proportion the adjusted profits of the member bears to the
total adjusted profits of all of the standard members that made a profit.

###### Further provision about elections under 

188

188.1

Paragraph 1  of  Schedule 15  (long term elections) applies to an election
under section 187.

188.2

But that paragraph has effect for the purposes of such an election as if—

188.2.a

sub-paragraph (4) were omitted (so that there is no restriction on revoking
the election), and

188.2.b

sub-paragraph (5) were omitted (as an election under  this section  cannot be
made again once revoked).

##### Eligible distribution tax systems: deemed taxes

###### Deemed distribution tax election

189

189.1

The filing member of a multinational group may make an election that  section
190  (deemed distribution tax) applies to all of the standard members of the
group in a particular territory for an accounting period.

189.2

An election under  subsection (1)  may only be made in relation to a territory
if that territory has an eligible distribution tax system.

189.3

In  this Part  “ eligible distribution tax system ” means a system of tax on
company profits that—

189.3.a

is generally only payable when a company distributes, or is deemed to
distribute, those profits to its members, or when it incurs certain non-
business expenses,

189.3.b

is charged at a rate of at least 15%, and

189.3.c

was in force on or before 1 July 2021.

189.4

Paragraph 2  of  Schedule 15  (annual elections) applies to an election under
this section .

###### Deemed distribution tax amount

190

190.1

Where  this section  applies to the standard members of a multinational group
in a territory for an accounting period, those members have a deemed
distribution tax amount for that period.

190.2

The deemed distribution tax amount is the lesser of—

190.2.a

the amount that, when added to the result of Step 4 in  section 132 (1) ,
would result in the effective tax rate of those members for that period being
15%, and

190.2.b

the amount of tax that would have been due in that territory if all of those
members had distributed all of their profits of that period.

190.3

The combined covered tax balance of those members for that period, as
determined under Step 4 in  section 132 (1) , is to be increased by adding
that deemed distribution tax amount.

190.4

In the following accounting period, those members have a “recapture amount” in
respect of the previous accounting period that is (initially) equal to the
deemed distribution tax amount for that period.

190.5

Those members continue to have a recapture amount in respect of an accounting
period until the earlier of—

190.5.a

the end of the fourth accounting period after the period in which the
recapture amount first arose, and

190.5.b

the time when the recapture amount has reduced to nil.

190.6

Section 191  sets out how recapture amounts reduce.

190.7

If the recapture amount in respect of an accounting period has not reduced to
nil by the end of the fourth accounting period after that period the following
are to be recalculated for the period in which the recapture amount arose,
with the amount of the recapture amount remaining subtracted from the combined
covered tax balance (after the addition of the deemed distribution tax
amount)—

190.7.a

the effective tax rate for those members, and

190.7.b

the top-up amounts that those members would have following that recalculation.

###### Reduction of recapture amount

191

191.1

Where standard members of a multinational group in a territory have a
recapture amount in an accounting period (“ the relevant period ”) in respect
of a previous accounting period that amount is to be reduced in accordance
with  subsections (3)  to  (5) .

191.2

If those members have more than one recapture amount in the relevant period,
those reductions are to be applied first to the recapture amount in respect of
the earliest accounting period, then the next earliest and so on.

191.3

First, if any of the members have accrued qualifying taxes in the relevant
period reduce the recapture amount (but not below nil) by the amount of
qualifying taxes accrued by the members in that period that is available.

191.4

Then, if the members have a collective loss for the relevant period (and if
the recapture amount has not been reduced to nil) reduce the recapture amount
(but not below nil) by the amount of that loss that is available multiplied by
15%.

191.5

Finally, if the members have a qualifying carried forward loss (and if the
recapture amount has not been reduced to nil) reduce the recapture amount (but
not below nil) by the amount of the qualifying carried forward loss that is
available.

191.6

An amount is “available” to the extent it has not been used to reduce another
recapture amount (in the case of a qualifying carried forward loss, whether in
that period or a previous period).

191.7

For the purposes of  subsections (3)  to  (6) —

“ qualifying taxes ” means taxes accrued in the relevant period on actual or
deemed distributions of profits; members of the group have a “ collective loss
” for an accounting period if the result of Step 2 in  section 132 (1)  is
less than nil, and the amount of that loss is that result expressed as a
positive number, members of the group have a “ qualifying carried forward loss
” if — they had a collective loss in a period, and after making reductions in
accordance with  subsections (2)  to  (5)  an amount of that collective loss
remains available, and the amount of that qualifying carried forward loss is
the amount of the collective loss that remained available.

191.8

Any amount of qualifying taxes accrued by a member of the group that is used
to reduce a recapture amount is excluded from that member’s covered tax
balance.

###### Recalculation where member leaves the group

192

192.1

This section  applies where—

192.1.a

in an accounting period (“ the relevant period ”), a standard member of a
multinational group (“ D ”) in a territory (“the relevant territory”)—

192.1.a.i

leaves the group,

192.1.a.ii

transfers all, or substantially all, of its assets to an entity who is not a
member of the group or to an individual, or

192.1.a.iii

transfers all, or substantially all, of its assets to a member of the group
that is not located in the relevant territory, and

192.1.b

the standard members (including D) of the group in the relevant territory
(“the relevant members”) had, in previous accounting periods, one or more
recapture amounts (each a “recapture period”).

192.2

Where  this section  applies, the following are to be recalculated for each
recapture period—

192.2.a

the effective tax rate for the relevant members, and

192.2.b

the top-up amounts that those members would have in accordance with that
recalculation.

192.3

In recalculating that rate and those amounts for each of those periods, deduct
the amount of each recapture amount that was outstanding in the period (after
any reduction under  section 191  in that period) from the combined covered
tax balance of those members for the period.

192.4

The relevant members have a special additional top-up tax amount under  this
section  for the relevant period that is equal to the sum of the amounts given
by—

192.4.a

subtracting the amount of top-up amounts those members had for each recapture
period from the sum of the top-up amounts those members would have for that
period as recalculated under  subsection (2) (b) , and

192.4.b

multiplying the result of  paragraph (a)  for each recapture period by the
disposition recapture ratio for that period.

192.5

Subject to  subsections (6)  and  (7) , the disposition recapture ratio for an
accounting period is the amount given by dividing—

192.5.a

the adjusted profits of D in that period, by

192.5.b

the result of Step 2 in  section 132 (1)  for the relevant members for that
period.

192.6

If either of the amounts described in  paragraph (a)  or  (b)  of  subsection
(5)  is nil or less, the disposition recapture ratio is nil.

192.7

If (ignoring  this subsection ) the disposition recapture ratio would be
greater than 1, it is to be treated as 1.

192.8

Sections 206  and  207  include further provision about special additional
top-up tax amounts under  this section .

192.9

Each of the amounts mentioned in  subsection (10)  for each affected period is
to be treated, for the purposes of  this Part , as the amount given by
multiplying—

192.9.a

that amount, by

192.9.b

the amount given by subtracting the disposition recapture ratio for that
period from 1.

192.10

Those amounts are—

192.10.a

the result of Step 2 in  section 132 (1)  for those members for that period;

192.10.b

the combined covered tax balance of the standard members of the group in the
relevant territory;

192.10.c

any recapture amount those members have in that affected period;

192.10.d

the substance based income exclusion for that period for that territory.

192.11

An accounting period is an affected period if it is—

192.11.a

a recapture period, or

192.11.b

the relevant period and the standard members of the group in the territory
have one or more recapture amounts in that period.

#### Calculation of top-up amounts

##### Calculation of top-up amounts

193

Take the following steps to determine if a standard member of a multinational
group (“the member in question”) has a top-up amount for an accounting period
and, if it does, the extent of it—

Step 1 Determine, under  section 194 , the total top-up amount for the
accounting period for the territory the member in question is located in. Step
2 If the total top-up amount for that territory is nil, the member in question
does not have a top-up amount. Otherwise, proceed to Step 3. Step 3 Determine
the adjusted profits of the member in question for the period (in accordance
with  Chapter 4 ). Step 4 If the member has not made a profit for the period
(as determined by reference to its adjusted profits), the member in question
does not have a top-up amount. Otherwise, proceed to Step 5. Step 5 If there
are no other standard members of the multinational group located in the same
territory as the member in question, the member’s top-up amount is equal to
the total top-up amount for that territory for the period. Otherwise, proceed
to Step 6. Step 6 Determine (in accordance with  Chapter 4 ) the adjusted
profits for the period of all of the other standard members of the group that
are located in same territory as the member in question. Step 7 Add together
the adjusted profits of all standard members of the group in that territory
that have profits (including those of the member in question). Step 8 Divide
the member in question’s adjusted profits by the result of Step 7. Step 9 The
member’s top-up amount is the result of multiplying the total top-up amount
for the territory by the result of Step 8.

##### Total top-up amount for a territory

194

194.1

Take the following steps to determine the total top-up amount for an
accounting period for a territory—

Step 1 Subtract the effective tax rate of the standard members of the group in
that territory for that period (as determined in accordance with  section 132
) from 15%. Step 2 If the result of Step 1 is nil or less, the total top-up
amount for that territory is nil. Otherwise, proceed to Step 3. Step 3
Subtract the sum of the losses of those members of the group that made a loss
for the period (as determined by reference to their adjusted profits) from the
sum of the profits of those members of the group that made a profit in that
period (as determined by reference to their adjusted profits). Step 4 Subtract
the substance based income exclusion for that period for that territory (if
any) from the result of Step 3. Step 5 If the result of Step 4 is nil or less,
the total top-up amount for that territory is nil. Otherwise, proceed to Step
6. Step 6 Multiply the result of Step 1 (which will be a percentage) by the
result of Step 4.

194.2

But where those members have a QDT credit for that territory for the
accounting period, the total top-up amount is to be reduced in accordance with
subsections (4)  to  (7) .

194.3

For the purposes of  this Part , standard members of a multinational group in
a territory have a “QDT credit” for a territory for an accounting period if
qualifying domestic top-up tax (see   sections 256 and 256A ) is accrued by
one or more of those members in that territory   for   that period.

194.4

Where—

194.4.a

the standard members do not have a collective additional amount under  section
206  for the period, and

194.4.b

the result of Step 6 in  subsection (1)  is equal to or greater than the sum
of amounts of qualifying domestic top-up tax accrued by those members in that
period,

the total top-up amount is to be reduced by the sum of those amounts.

194.5

Where—

194.5.a

the standard members do not have a collective additional amount under  section
206  for the period, and

194.5.b

the result of Step 6 in  subsection (1)  is less than the sum of amounts of
qualifying domestic top-up tax accrued by those members in the period,

the total top-up amount is to be reduced to nil.

194.6

Where—

194.6.a

the standard members have a collective additional amount under  section 206
for the period, and

194.6.b

the sum of the result of Step 6 in  subsection (1)  and that collective
additional amount is less than the sum of amounts of qualifying domestic top-
up tax accrued by those members in the period,

the total top-up amount is to be reduced to nil.

194.7

Where—

194.7.a

the standard members have a collective additional amount under  section 206 ,
and

194.7.b

the sum of the result of Step 6 in  subsection (1)  and that collective
additional amount is equal to or greater than the sum of amounts of qualifying
domestic top-up tax accrued by those members in the period,

the total top-up amount is to be reduced by the amount given by multiplying
the sum of those amounts of qualifying domestic top-up tax by the amount given
by dividing the result of Step 6 in  subsection (1)  by the sum of the result
of that step and that collective additional amount.

##### Substance based income exclusion

195

195.1

The substance based income exclusion for a period for a territory is
calculated by taking the following steps—

Step 1 Determine the payroll carve-out amount for that period for each
standard member of the group in that territory. Step 2 Determine the tangible
asset carve-out amount for that period for each standard member of the group
in that territory. Step 3 Add together the amounts determined at steps 1 and
2.

195.2

But if the filing member for the group elects not to calculate the substance
based income exclusion for the period, the exclusion is nil.

195.3

Paragraph  2  of  Schedule 15  (annual elections) applies to an election under
subsection  (2) .

195.4

The payroll carve-out amount for a member is 5% of the eligible payroll costs
incurred by the member in the period.

195.5

The tangible asset carve-out amount for a member is 5% of the eligible
tangible asset amount of the member in the period.

195.6

Section  196  sets out how to calculate the eligible payroll costs of a
member.

195.7

Section  197  sets out how to calculate the eligible tangible asset amount of
a member.

195.7A

Section 197A sets out the treatment of operating leases.

195.8

Section  198  sets out special rules on calculating the eligible payroll costs
and eligible tangible asset amount of a member that is a permanent
establishment or a flow-through entity.

##### Eligible payroll costs

196

196.1

The eligible payroll costs of a member for a period are all costs incurred by
the member in the period in connection with the employment of an employee of
that member, provided that—

196.1.a

the employee is an individual,

196.1.b

the costs are payable primarily in respect of work done in the course of the
ordinary operating activities of the member or the group,

196.1.c

  at least some of the work is carried out   in the territory in which the
member is located,  ...

196.1.d

the costs are not excluded costs  , and

196.1.e

the filing member chooses to include those costs in calculating the substance
based income exclusion for the period.

196.1A

But where—

196.1A.a

an employee carries out the work in the period both in the territory in which
the member is located and outside that territory, and

196.1A.b

the proportion of the time spent carrying out the work in that territory in
the period is 50% or less,

the payroll costs in respect of the employee are to be multiplied by that
proportion to determine how much of those costs are eligible payroll costs.

196.2

The costs may include in particular—

196.2.a

salaries, wages and other expenditures that provide a direct and personal
benefit to the employee,

196.2.b

payroll and other employment taxes payable by the member, and

196.2.c

social security contributions payable by the member.

196.3

  In this section “employee”   means—

196.3.a

a person regarded as an employee under the law of the territory in which the
member is located, and

196.3.b

any other person while they are acting exclusively under the direction or
control of the member or the group (including on a part-time basis),

and “ employment ” is to be construed accordingly.

196.4

“Excluded costs” are the following—

196.4.a

costs taken into account in determining the underlying profits of a permanent
establishment of the member;

196.4.b

costs taken into account in a carrying value used to calculate the eligible
tangible asset amount (see section  197 );

196.4.c

costs that are core international shipping costs (see section  157 );

196.4.d

costs that are ancillary international shipping costs (see section  158 ),
subject to subsections  (5)  and  (6) .

196.5

Where the member has an ancillary international shipping profit cap adjustment
of more than nil for the period, only the eligible proportion of costs that
are ancillary international shipping costs are excluded costs.

196.6

The eligible proportion is the proportion given by dividing—

196.6.a

the member’s ancillary international shipping profits for the period, by

196.6.b

the amount given by subtracting the member’s ancillary international shipping
costs from the member’s ancillary international shipping revenue for the
period.

##### Eligible tangible asset amount

197

197.1

To determine the eligible tangible asset amount of a member of a multinational
group for an accounting period—

197.1.a

add together—

197.1.a.i

the sum of the recorded carrying values of each eligible tangible asset held
by the member at the start of the period, and

197.1.a.ii

the sum of the recorded carrying values of each eligible tangible asset held
by the member at the end of the period, and

197.1.b

divide the result of paragraph (a) by 2.

197.2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

197.3

“ Recorded ” means recorded for the purposes of preparing the consolidated
financial statements of the ultimate parent.

197.4

For the purposes of this section “ carrying value ” means the carrying value
of the asset including—

197.4.a

accumulated depreciation, amortisation or depletion,

197.4.b

amounts attributable to the capitalisation of eligible payroll costs and costs
that would be eligible payroll costs were they not excluded costs under
section  196 (4) ,  ...

197.4.c

amounts attributable to any purchase accounting adjustment relating to the
asset,

197.4.d

any impairment loss, and

197.4.e

so much of the reversal of a previous impairment loss as does not cause the
carrying value to exceed the value it would have been had the impairment loss
not been recognised,

but not including any positive difference between the value of an asset
recorded from time to time and the value of an asset when it was acquired by
the member, where that difference is solely attributable to a revaluation.

197.5

An asset is an eligible tangible asset if  ...—

197.5.a

  it is  of a type referred to in subsection  (6) ,  ...

197.5.b

  it is  not an excluded asset  and,

197.5.c

the filing member chooses to include the asset in calculating the substance
based income exclusion for the period.

197.6

The types of asset are—

197.6.a

property, plant or equipment located in the same territory as the member;

197.6.b

natural resources located in that territory;

197.6.c

a right to use a tangible asset located in that territory under a lease;

197.6.d

a license or similar right to use a tangible asset located in that territory,
provided that—

197.6.d.i

the right is granted by a government of that territory, and

197.6.d.ii

it is expected in granting the right that the member will, in using that
right, incur significant expenditure in enhancing the value of tangible assets
in that territory (whether or not those assets are subject to the right).

197.6A

Where an asset falling within paragraph (a), (c) or (d) of subsection (6) is
only located in the same territory as the member for part of the period—

197.6A.a

it is to be regarded for the purposes of this section as located in that
territory for the whole period, but

197.6A.b

where the proportion of the period in which the asset (or in the case of a
right, the asset to which the right relates) is located in the territory is
50% or less, the carrying values for the purposes of subsection (1)(a) and (b)
are to be multiplied by that proportion.

197.7

An asset is an excluded asset if it is of one of the following types—

197.7.a

property (including land or buildings) that is held for sale, lease or
investment (whether such sale, lease or investment is to be carried out in the
period or not);

197.7.b

an asset used in the course of core international shipping activity (see
section  157 );

197.7.c

an asset used in the course of ancillary international shipping activity (see
section  158 ), subject to subsections  (8)  and  (9) .

197.7A

Where part of an asset comprising property is held by a member of a
multinational group for lease, but another part of that property is retained
for use by the member—

197.7A.a

the parts are to be treated as separate assets for the purposes of this
section and section 197A, and

197.7A.b

the carrying value of the asset is to be allocated between the separate parts
on a just and reasonable basis.

197.8

Where the member has an ancillary international shipping profit cap adjustment
of more than nil for the period, only the eligible proportion of an asset used
in the course of ancillary international shipping activity is to be treated as
an excluded asset.

197.9

The eligible proportion is the proportion given by dividing—

197.9.a

the member’s ancillary international shipping profits for the period, by

197.9.b

the amount given by subtracting the member’s ancillary international shipping
costs from the member’s ancillary international shipping revenue for the
period.

##### Operating leases

197A

197A.1

Subsection (2) applies where—

197A.1.a

a member of a multinational group holds property located in the same territory
as the member in an accounting period,

197A.1.b

that property is held for lease by the member, and

197A.1.c

the lease is accounted for in the underlying profits accounts of the member as
an operating lease for that period.

197A.2

The operating lease is to be regarded as an eligible tangible asset of the
member for that period (despite the exclusion in section 197(7)(a)).

197A.3

But where the property is not a short-term rental asset for that period, any
carrying value of the operating lease recorded at the start or the end of the
period is to be reduced by the right-of-use amount for the property at that
time for the purposes of carrying out the calculation in section 197(1).

197A.4

In a case where the lessee is a member of the same multinational group as the
lessor, the right-of-use amount in relation to the property at the start or
the end of the period is the carrying value of the lessee’s right-of-use asset
in relation to the property recorded at that time.

197A.5

Where the lessee is not a member of the same multinational group as the
lessor, the right-of-use amount in relation to the property at the start or
end of the period is the undiscounted value of any outstanding payments under
the lease at that time.

197A.6

In determining the value of those outstanding payments—

197A.6.a

apply the accounting standard used in determining the underlying profits of
the member,

197A.6.b

include the value of any outstanding payments that would be due under any
extension to the lease that would fall to be accounted for in accordance with
that standard.

197A.7

For the purposes of this section, property held for lease is a short-term
rental asset in an accounting period if—

197A.7.a

the property was leased regularly during that period to different lessees, and

197A.7.b

the average length of the periods for which it was leased does not exceed 30
days.

##### Eligible payroll costs and eligible tangible asset amount: permanent establishments and flow-through entities

198

198.1

In calculating the eligible payroll costs and eligible tangible asset amount
of a permanent establishment, the only amounts to be taken into account are
amounts that would be taken into account in determining the adjusted profits
of the establishment.

198.2

But if, following the application of subsection  (1) , the value of an
eligible tangible asset used in the business of the establishment has not been
taken into account in calculating the eligible tangible asset amount of the
establishment, the value of that asset is to be taken into account as well.

198.3

In calculating the eligible payroll costs and eligible tangible asset amount
of a flow-through entity, the only amounts to be taken into account are
amounts that would be taken into account in determining the adjusted profits
of the entity.

##### Power to make provision about treatment of payroll costs and assets

198A

198A.1

The Treasury may by regulations make provision about the treatment of payroll
costs and tangible assets in specified circumstances.

198A.2

Regulations may, in particular, provide that in determining the substance
based income exclusion for a territory—

198A.2.a

specified eligible tangible assets or eligible payroll costs are to be treated
as having a different value;

198A.2.b

specified eligible tangible assets or eligible payroll costs are to be
attributed to a different member of a multinational group or to a different
territory;

198A.2.c

specified eligible tangible assets or eligible payroll costs are to be
excluded from that determination;

198A.2.d

specified assets that are not eligible tangible assets are to be treated as
eligible tangible assets;

198A.2.e

specified costs that are not eligible payroll costs are to be treated as
eligible payroll costs.

198A.3

In this section “ specified ” means specified or described in regulations.

##### Election to treat total top-up amount as nil

199

199.1

The filing member of a multinational group may elect that the total top-up
amount for an accounting period (“ the current period ”) for a territory is to
be treated as nil.

199.2

An election under  this section  may be made only if—

199.2.a

the average revenue for an accounting period of the standard members of the
group in that territory is less than 10 million euros, and

199.2.b

the average of the adjusted profits of those members for an accounting period
is less than 1 million euros.

199.3

The average revenue for an accounting period of the standard members of a
multinational group in a territory is determined by adding together all of the
revenue of those members in each qualifying accounting period, and dividing
the result by the number of qualifying accounting periods.

199.4

The average of the sum of the adjusted profits of the standard members of a
multinational group in a territory is determined by taking the following
steps—

Step 1 Determine the sum of the adjusted profits of each of those members for
each qualifying accounting period. Step 2 Add together the results of Step 1.
Step 3 Divide the result of Step 2 by the number of qualifying accounting
periods.

199.5

The current period is a qualifying accounting period.

199.6

Each of the previous two accounting periods is a qualifying period unless—

199.6.a

none of the standard members of the group in the territory had revenue in that
period, and

199.6.b

none of the standard members of the group in the territory made a loss in that
period.

199.7

Where a qualifying period is longer or shorter than a year, the adjusted
profits and revenue of the members are to be treated for the purposes of  this
section  as the amounts given by multiplying the profits and revenue by the
amount given by dividing 365 by the number of days in the period.

199.8

An election under  this section  may not be made in respect of the nominal
territory of a stateless member of a multinational group.

199.9

Paragraph 2  of  Schedule 15  (annual elections) applies to an election under
this section .

#### Allocating top-up amounts to responsible members

##### Top-up amounts multiplied by inclusion ratio

200

200.1

The amount of a top-up amount of a member of a multinational group that is
attributed to a responsible member (see  section 128 ) is found by multiplying
the top-up amount by the responsible member’s inclusion ratio for the member
whose top-up amount it is.

200.2

Where the responsible member’s (“the first responsible member”) interest in
the member is through another responsible member, the first responsible
member’s top-up amount is to be reduced (but not below nil) by the amount
attributed under  this section  to that other responsible member.

##### Inclusion ratio

201

201.1

A responsible member’s inclusion ratio for a member with a top-up amount (“the
relevant member”) is found as follows—

Step 1 Determine the adjusted profits of the relevant member with the top-up
amount (in accordance with  Chapter 4 ). Step 2 Determine how much of those
profits are attributable to ownership interests held by   individuals and
entities other than the responsible member. Step 3 Subtract the amount
determined under Step 2 from the amount determined under Step 1. Step 4 The
inclusion ratio is given by dividing the amount determined under Step 3 by the
amount determined under Step 1.

201.2

The amount of profits of the relevant member attributable to ownership
interests held by   individuals and  entities other than the responsible
member is the amount that would, in hypothetical consolidated financial
statements prepared by the responsible member (whether or not it actually
prepared consolidated financial statements), have been treated in those
statements as attributable to such   individuals and  entities under the
principles of the authorised accounting standard used, or treated as used (see
section 249 (1) (d) ), in the ultimate parent’s consolidated financial
statements.

201.3

For the purposes of determining what that amount would be in those
hypothetical consolidated financial statements of the responsible member, use
the following assumptions—

201.3.a

the relevant member’s profits were its adjusted profits as determined in
accordance with  Chapter 4 ;

201.3.b

the responsible member had a controlling interest in the relevant member such
that all of its income and expenses were consolidated on a line-by-line basis
with those of the responsible member;

201.3.c

all of the profits of the relevant member were attributable to transactions
with persons who are not members of the multinational group;

201.3.d

all ownership interests that are not directly or indirectly held by the
responsible member were held by persons other than members of the
multinational group.

201.4

Where the relevant member is a flow-through entity, none of the adjusted
profits of the relevant member are to be regarded as attributable to ownership
interests held by entities that are not members of the group (and any such
entity is to be ignored for the purposes of this section).

#### Further adjustments

##### Covered taxes less than nil

###### Covered taxes balance less than nil when members in a territory have a profit

202

202.1

This section  applies to the standard members of a multinational group in a
territory (“the relevant territory”) in an accounting period (“ the current
period ”) if—

202.1.a

those members do not have a collective loss for the current period, and

202.1.b

the combined covered tax balance for those members for the current period is
less than nil (including as a result of  this section  or  section 205  having
applied in a previous accounting period).

202.2

Where  this section  applies—

202.2.a

the amount of the combined covered tax balance for the current period is to be
added to the combined covered tax balance for the standard members in the
relevant territory in the next accounting period in which those members do not
have a collective loss (which as the balance for the current period is
negative will reduce the combined covered tax balance for that next period),
and

202.2.b

the combined covered tax balance for those members for the current period is
to be treated as nil (and as a result of Step 5 in  section 132 (1)  their
effective tax rate for the current period will be 0%).

202.3

For the purposes of  this section  and  sections 203  to  205 , the standard
members of a multinational group in a territory have a collective loss for a
period if the result of Step 2 in  section 132 (1)  is nil or less for those
members for that period.

###### Additional top-up amounts where covered taxes less than expected

203

203.1

This section  applies in an accounting period in relation to standard members
of a multinational group in a territory where—

203.1.a

those members have a collective loss for that period, and

203.1.b

the combined covered tax balance for those members for the current period is
less than nil, and

203.1.c

the collective negative covered tax balance expressed as a positive number is
greater than the amount given by multiplying the collective loss expressed as
a positive number by 15% (“the expected covered tax amount”).

203.2

Where  this section  applies, those members in that territory collectively
have an additional top-up amount (a “collective additional amount”) equal to
the difference between the expected covered tax amount and the combined
covered tax balance.

203.3

Where those members have a QDT credit for the accounting period, the
collective additional amount under  this section  is to be reduced in
accordance with  subsections (4)  to  (7) .

203.4

Where—

203.4.a

the standard members do not have a collective additional amount under  section
206  for the period, and

203.4.b

the collective additional amount under  this section  (before reduction by
relevant QDT credit) is equal to or greater than the sum of amounts of
qualifying domestic top-up tax accrued by those members in that period,

the collective additional amount under  this section  is to be reduced by the
sum of those accrued amounts.

203.5

Where—

203.5.a

the standard members do not have a collective additional amount under  section
206  for the period, and

203.5.b

the collective additional amount under  this section  (before reduction by
relevant QDT credit) is less than the sum of amounts of qualifying domestic
top-up tax accrued by those members in that period,

the collective additional amount under  this section  is to be reduced to nil.

203.6

Where—

203.6.a

the standard members have a collective additional amount under  section 206
for the period, and

203.6.b

the sum of the collective additional amount under  this section  (before
reduction by relevant QDT credit) and the collective additional amount under
section 206  is less than the sum of amounts of qualifying domestic top-up tax
accrued by those members in that period,

the collective additional amount under  this section  is to be reduced to nil.

203.7

Where—

203.7.a

the standard members have a collective additional amount under  section 206
for the period, and

203.7.b

the sum of the collective additional amount under  this section  (before
reduction by relevant QDT credit) and the collective additional amount under
section 206  is equal to or greater than the sum of amounts of qualifying
domestic top-up tax accrued by those members in that period,

the collective additional amount under  this section  is to be reduced by the
amount given by multiplying the sum of those amounts of qualifying domestic
top-up tax by the amount given by dividing the collective additional amount
under this section by the sum of that collective additional amount and the
collective additional amount under  section 206 .

###### Allocation of collective additional amount under 

204

204.1

Where the standard members of a multinational group in a territory have a
collective additional amount under  section 203 , an amount of that amount is
to be allocated to each member that has a negative covered tax balance,
expressed as a negative number, which is less than the adjusted profits of
that member (which may be positive or negative) multiplied by 15%.

204.2

To determine the amount of the collective additional amount to be allocated to
each such member, take the following steps—

      Step 1                                 For each such member determine
the amount given by subtracting the member’s negative covered tax balance,
expressed as a negative number, from its adjusted profits multiplied by 15%.
Step 2                                 Add together the amounts determined
under Step 1.
Step 3                                 For each such member, divide the amount
determined for that member under Step 1 by the result of Step 2.
Step 4                                 Allocate to each member the amount
given by multiplying the result of Step 3 for that member by the collective
additional amount.

204.3

For the purposes of  this Part , an amount of a collective additional amount
allocated to a member of a multinational group under  this section  is an
additional top-up amount.

204.4

Chapter 7  (allocation of top-up amounts to responsible members) applies to an
additional top-up amount allocated to a member of a multinational group under
this section  as it applies to a top-up amount of that member as if the
adjusted profits of that member were the amount given by dividing the
additional top-up amount by 15%.

###### Election to carry forward and reduce collective additional amount

205

205.1

This section  applies where the standard members of a multinational group in a
territory (“the relevant territory”) have a collective additional amount
under section 203  for an accounting period (“ the current period ”) and the
filing member of the group has elected for this section to apply for that
period.

205.2

Where  this section  applies—

205.2.a

the qualifying amount of the collective additional amount   under section 203
for the current period is to be subtracted from the combined covered tax
balance for the standard members of the group in the relevant territory in the
next accounting period in which   the members of the group in the relevant
territory   do not have a collective loss, and

205.2.b

the collective additional amount   under section 203  for the current period
is to be reduced by the qualifying amount of that collective additional amount
(including to nil where the whole amount is qualifying).

205.3

The amount of the collective additional amount   under section 203  that is
“qualifying” is the amount given by subtracting the amount of any deferred tax
asset deemed to arise under  section 217 (7)  for the period.

205.4

Paragraph 2  of  Schedule 15  (annual elections) applies to an election under
this section .

##### Additional top-up amounts on recalculations

###### Additional top-up amounts where recalculations required

206

206.1

This section  applies to the standard members of a multinational group in an
accounting period (“ the current period ”) in a territory where—

206.1.a

a recalculation is required in the current period in relation to one or more
previous accounting periods (each a “prior period”) as a result of any of the
following sections—

206.1.a.i

section 163 (4) ;

206.1.a.ii

section 184 (2) ;

206.1.a.iii

section 217 (5) ;

206.1.a.iv

section 219 (1) , or

206.1.b

the members have a special additional top-up tax amount under  section 192
for the current period.

206.2

Where—

206.2.a

the sum of the top-up amounts that those members would have for a prior
period, determined in accordance with a recalculation required under one of
the sections mentioned in  subsection (1) (a) , is greater than the sum of the
top-up amounts those members had for that prior period, or

206.2.b

this section  applies as a result of  subsection (1) (b)  (whether or not it
also applies as a result of  subsection (1) (a) ),

the members collectively have an additional top-up amount (a “collective
additional amount”) under  this section  for the current period.

206.3

Take the following steps to determine the collective additional amount under
this section —

      Step 1                                 Where one or more recalculations
are required in accordance with any of the sections mentioned in  subsection
(1) (a) , for each prior period carry out the recalculation or recalculations
required in respect of that period to establish the top-up amounts those
members would have had for the prior period (taking account of all
recalculations required for that period).
Step 2                                 For each prior period, subtract the sum
of the top-up amounts those members had for that prior period from the sum of
top-up amounts that those members would have for that period.
Step 3                                 Add together all of the results of Step
2 that are greater than nil.
Step 4                                 Where the members have a special
additional top-up tax amount under  section 192  for the current period, add
that amount to the result of Step 2 (which may be nil).

206.4

Where those members have a QDT credit for the accounting period, the
collective additional amount under  this section  is to be reduced in
accordance with  subsections (5)  to  (8) .

206.5

Where—

206.5.a

the standard members do not have a collective additional amount under  section
203  for the period,

206.5.b

the total top-up amount for the current period for the members for the
members’ territory is nil, and

206.5.c

the collective additional amount under  this section  (before reduction by
relevant QDT credit) is equal to or greater than the sum of amounts of
qualifying domestic top-up tax accrued by those members in that period,

the collective additional amount under  this section  is to be reduced by the
sum of those accrued amounts.

206.6

Where—

206.6.a

the standard members do not have a collective additional amount under  section
203  for the period,

206.6.b

the total top-up amount for the current period for the standard members in the
territory is nil, and

206.6.c

the collective additional amount under  this section  (before reduction by
relevant QDT credit) is less than the sum of amounts of qualifying domestic
top-up tax accrued by those members in that period,

the collective additional amount under  this section  is to be reduced to nil.

206.7

Where—

206.7.a

the standard members have a collective additional amount under  section 203
for the period or the total top-up amount for the current period for members
for the members’ territory is greater than nil, and

206.7.b

the sum of the collective additional amount under  this section  (before
reduction by relevant QDT credit), any collective additional amount under
section 203  and the total top-up amount for the current period for the
members for the member’s territory is less than the sum of amounts of
qualifying domestic top-up tax accrued by those members in that period,

the collective additional amount under  this section  is to be reduced to nil.

206.8

Where—

206.8.a

the standard members have a collective additional amount under  section 203
for the period or the total top-up amount for the current period for members
for the members’ territory is greater than nil, and

206.8.b

the sum of the collective additional amount under  this section  (before
reduction by relevant QDT credit), any collective additional amount under
section 203  and the total top-up amount for the current period for the
members for the member’s territory is equal to or greater than the sum of
amounts of qualifying domestic top-up tax accrued by those members in that
period,

the collective additional amount under  this section  is to be reduced by the
amount given by multiplying the sum of those amounts of qualifying domestic
top-up tax by the amount given by dividing the collective additional amount
under  this section  by the sum of that collective additional amount, any
collective additional amount under  section 203  and the total-up up amount
for the current period.

###### Allocation of collective additional amounts under 

207

207.1

Where the standard members of a multinational group in a territory have a
collective additional amount under  section 206  for an accounting period (“
the current period ”), that amount is to be allocated to those members as
follows—

      Step 1                                 Determine the sum of the top-up
amounts that those members would have (in prior accounting periods) in
accordance with the recalculation, or recalculations, that relate to that
collective additional amount.
Step 2                                 Determine the sum of the top-up amounts
that each of those members would have in accordance with the recalculation, or
recalculations, that relate to the collective additional amount.
Step 3                                 For each member where the result of
Step 2 is greater than nil, divide that result by the result of step 1.
Step 4                                 Each such member has an additional top-
up amount under  this section  equal to the amount given by multiplying the
collective additional amount by the result of Step 3 for that member.

207.2

Chapter 7  (allocation of top-up amounts to responsible members)—

207.2.a

applies to an additional top-up amount allocated to a member of a
multinational group under  this section  as it applies to a top-up amount of
that member, and

207.2.b

if the result of Step 2 in  section 132 (1)  in relation to the standard
members of the group for the current period is nil or less (those members
between them have made a loss), has effect as if the adjusted profits of that
member were the amount given by dividing the additional top-up amount by 15%.

##### Restructuring of groups

###### Member joining or leaving multinational group

208

208.1

Subsection (2)  applies to an entity where, in an accounting period (“the
transfer period”) of a multinational group, the entity—

208.1.a

becomes a member of that multinational group (including, where it was
previously a member of a different group, as a result of it becoming the
ultimate parent of a new group), or

208.1.b

ceases to be a member of that multinational group.

208.2

The entity is to be treated as a member of that group for the whole of the
transfer period (whether or not that results in it being treated as a member
of two or more groups) if any portion of its assets, liabilities, income,
expenses or cash flows are included on a line-by-line basis in the
consolidated financial statements of the ultimate parent for that period.

208.3

But in applying  this Part  in relation to the entity as a member of the
multinational group it has become or ceased to be a member of, only its
profits, covered taxes and (where applicable) eligible payroll costs that are
taken into account in the consolidated financial statements of the ultimate
parent are to be taken account of.

208.4

Any purchase accounting consolidation adjustments arising from the transfer of
the ownership interests resulting in an entity becoming a member of a
multinational group are to be ignored in determining the adjusted profits and
covered tax balance of that entity as a member of that group in the transfer
period and in subsequent accounting periods.

208.5

When (where applicable) determining the eligible tangible asset amount of an
entity that becomes a member of a multinational group as a member of that
group in the transfer period, adjust that amount by multiplying it by the
amount given by dividing the number of days in the post-transfer period by the
number of days in the transfer period.

208.6

For the purposes of  subsection (5)  the “ post-transfer period ” means the
period beginning with the day on which the member became or (as the case may
be) ceased to be a member of a multinational group and ending with the last
day of the transfer period.

208.7

When (where applicable) determining the eligible tangible asset amount of an
entity that ceased to be a member of a multinational group as a member of that
group in the transfer period, adjust that amount by multiplying it by the
amount given by dividing the number of days in the pre-transfer period by the
number of days in the transfer period.

208.8

For the purposes of  subsection (7)  the “ pre-transfer period ” means the
period beginning with the commencement of the transfer period and ending with
the day before the day on which the ownership interests were transferred.

208.9

Subsections (10)  and  (11)  apply where an entity that becomes a member of a
multinational group (“group A”) as a result of a transfer of direct or
indirect ownership interests in it was a member of another multinational group
immediately before the transfer ( “group B” ).

208.10

The amount of deferred tax assets and tax liabilities (which for these
purposes does not include a special loss deferred tax asset) of the entity
that existed immediately before the transfer to be taken into account in
relation to that entity as a member of group A is the amount that would have
been taken into account had group A had a controlling interest in the entity
at the time the assets and liabilities arose.

208.11

Where a deferred tax liability of the entity was included in the total
deferred tax adjustment amount for that member in group B—

208.11.a

that deferred tax liability is to be deemed to have reversed without the need
to reflect the reversal in any calculation made for the purposes of  this Part
in relation to group B, and

208.11.b

the deferred tax liability is to be treated as arising in the transfer period
for the purpose of determining the total deferred tax adjustment amount for
the member in group A,

208.11.c

any resulting reduction in the covered tax balance of the entity as a member
of group A (see  sections 182  and  184 ) is only to have effect in the
accounting period in which the deferred tax liability is recaptured.

###### When transfer of controlling interest treated as acquisition of assets and liabilities

209

209.1

This section  applies to the acquisition or disposal of a controlling interest
in a member of a multinational group where—

209.1.a

the acquisition or disposal of that controlling interest is treated in the
same, or a similar manner, as a transfer of assets and liabilities of the
member (rather than ownership interests in it) by—

209.1.a.i

in the case of the acquisition or disposal of a controlling interest in an
entity which is tax transparent under the law of the territory in which it was
created, the territory in which the assets are located, or

209.1.a.ii

in any other case, the territory in which the member is located, and

209.1.b

that territory imposes a covered tax on the seller based on the difference
between the tax basis and either the consideration paid in exchange for the
controlling interest or the fair value of the assets and liabilities.

209.2

Where  this section  applies to an acquisition or disposal of a controlling
interest in a member of a multinational group, that acquisition or disposal is
to be treated as an acquisition or disposal of the assets and liabilities of
the member (and accordingly,  section 208  will not apply in relation to that
transfer).

209.3

Any covered tax arising in relation to the disposal of a controlling interest
in a member of a multinational group described in subsection (1)(b) is to
included in the covered tax balance of that member.

###### Transfer of assets or liabilities from a member of a multinational group

210

210.1

Where a member of a multinational group transfers assets or liabilities to
another entity in the course of a qualifying reorganisation (see  section 212
), any gain or loss on the transfer is to be excluded from the adjusted
profits of the member, except to the extent it is a non-qualifying gain or
loss.

210.2

In  this section , and in  sections 211  and  212 , “ non-qualifying gain or
loss ” means a gain or loss of the transferee on the transfer of assets or
liabilities, and is the lesser of—

210.2.a

the amount of that gain or loss that is subject to tax in the territory the
transferee is located in, and

210.2.b

the amount of that gain or loss reflected in the underlying profits accounts
of the transferee.

###### Transfer of assets or liabilities to a member of a multinational group

211

211.1

Subsection  (1A)  applies where there has been a transfer of assets or
liabilities to a member of a multinational group and—

211.1.a

the transfer forms part of a qualifying reorganisation (see section 212), or

211.1.b

the transferor is a member of the group and—

211.1.b.i

the transferee is located in the same territory as the transferor,

211.1.b.ii

the transferee and transferor are included in the same tax consolidation group
in that territory (within the meaning of section 164(5)), and

211.1.b.iii

an election under section 164 (election to exclude intra-group transactions)
has effect in relation to those members at the time of the transfer.

211.1A

The value of the assets or liabilities is, for the purpose of determining the
adjusted profits of the member, the carrying value of the assets or
liabilities in the hands of the transferor immediately before the transfer.

211.1B

Subsection (1C) applies where there has been a transfer of assets or
liabilities to a member of a multinational group and subsection (1A) does not
apply.

211.1C

The value of the assets or liabilities is, for the purpose of determining the
adjusted profits of the member, the carrying value of the assets or
liabilities immediately after the transfer as determined under the accounting
standard used in determining the underlying profits of the member for the
purposes of this Part and subject to the adjustments to those profits made in
accordance with Chapter 4.

211.2

But  subsection (3)  applies where—

211.2.a

  subsection (1C) applies in relation   to the transfer,

211.2.b

the transfer is from another member of the group, and

211.2.c

neither a gain nor a loss is recorded in the underlying profits accounts of
the transferor in respect of that transfer.

211.3

Where  this subsection  applies the adjusted profits of both the transferor
and the transferee are to be adjusted to secure that the transfer is reflected
on an arm’s length basis (see  section 149 (7) ).

211.4

Where a member of a multinational group transfers assets or liabilities to
another entity in the course of a qualifying reorganisation, and recognises a
non-qualifying gain or loss as a result of that transfer—

211.4.a

that gain or loss, to the extent it is non-qualifying, is to be included in
the adjusted profits of the member, and

211.4.b

where the other entity is a member of a multinational group, the value of the
assets or liabilities is, for the purposes of determining the adjusted profits
of that member, to be adjusted to exclude the non-qualifying gain or loss in a
manner consistent with the tax treatment of the assets or liabilities.

###### Meaning of “qualifying reorganisation”

212

212.1

For the purposes of  sections 210  and  211 , a transfer of assets or
liabilities is made in the course of a qualifying reorganisation if the
transfer takes place as a result of a merger, de-merger, liquidation or a
change in form of an entity, or a similar event, and conditions A, B and C are
met.

212.2

Condition A is that—

212.2.a

any consideration for the transfer is, or the transfer involves, wholly or
mostly equity interests issued by the transferee, or by a person connected
with the transferee,

212.2.b

in the case of a liquidation, any consideration for the transfer is, or the
transfer involves, wholly or mostly, the cancellation of equity interests in
the entity subject to the liquidation, or

212.2.c

the reorganisation does not result in a change in the ownership of an entity.

212.3

Condition B is that any gain or loss of the transferor that arises from the
transfer is not, in whole or in part, subject to tax.

212.4

Condition C is that, under the law of the territory the transferee is located
in, the value of the assets or liabilities for the purpose of determining the
transferee’s taxable income is the tax basis value of the assets or
liabilities in the hands of the transferor, adjusted for any non-qualifying
gain or loss.

212.5

Sections 719 to 724A of CTA 2010 (change in company ownership) have effect for
the purposes of determining whether there has been a change in ownership of an
entity as if—

212.5.a

references in those sections to “company” were to “entity”;

212.5.b

references in those sections to ordinary share capital or shares (however
expressed), in relation to a company, were to ownership interests in an
entity;

212.5.c

in section 721—

212.5.c.i

in subsection (1), “for the purposes of Chapters 2 to 5A” were omitted,

212.5.c.ii

in subsection (3), for the words from “major change” to the end there were
substituted  “a change in the ownership of the company” ,

212.5.c.iii

in subsection (4), the words from “for” to “5A” were omitted,

212.5.c.iv

in that subsection, paragraph (a) were omitted, and

212.5.c.v

in that paragraph (a) of that subsection, for “share capital” there were
substituted  “ownership interests” ;

212.5.d

section 722, and references to it in those sections, were omitted;

212.5.e

in section 724—

212.5.e.i

in subsection (2) for “conditions A, B and C are met” there were substituted
“the parent entity has at least 75% of the ownership interests in the
subsidiary entity” , and

212.5.e.ii

subsections (3) to (6) were omitted;

212.5.f

in section 724A—

212.5.f.i

in subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a), “for the purposes of
Chapters 2 to 6” were omitted, and

212.5.f.ii

in that subsection, paragraphs (b) and (c) were omitted, and

212.5.f.iii

subsection (8) were omitted.

##### Elections in relation to investment entities

###### Investment entity tax transparency election

213

213.1

The filing member of a multinational group may make an investment entity tax
transparency election in relation to a member of the group that is an
investment entity (“ M ”) and a member of the group with ownership interests
in that entity (“ O ”).

213.2

For the purposes of determining whether O has ownership interests in M, only
interests that give rise to a share of profits are to be taken into account.

213.3

An investment entity tax transparency election is an election that, for the
purposes of sections  168  (underlying profits of transparent entities) and
178  (covered taxes of transparent entities)—

213.3.a

M is to be treated as a flow-through entity,

213.3.b

M is to be treated as regarded as tax transparent in the territory of O, and

213.3.c

O is to be treated as having direct ownership interests in M.

213.4

To determine the percentage of direct ownership interest O is to be treated as
having in M, section  246 (1)  applies as if paragraph  (b)  were omitted, and
for those purposes only interests that give rise in a share of profits are
relevant.

213.5

The filing member may only make such an election if—

213.5.a

an election under section  214  is not in effect in relation to M and O, and

213.5.b

either—

213.5.b.i

O is subject to tax (in the territory in which O is located) on increases in
the fair value of its ownership interests in M, and the rate of tax applicable
to such increases is equal to or exceeds 15%, or

213.5.b.ii

O is a regulated mutual insurance entity.

213.6

An entity is a “regulated mutual insurance entity” if—

213.6.a

it is regulated or authorised to carry on insurance business, and

213.6.b

it is wholly owned by persons with which it has entered into insurance
contracts.

213.6A

Where, ignoring the election, profits and amounts of qualifying tax expense
would be allocated to M in accordance with sections 168 and 178 to 181, those
profits and amounts are to be allocated—

213.6A.a

first to M, and then

213.6A.b

to O in proportion to the direct ownership interests O is treated as having in
M.

213.7

Paragraph  1  of  Schedule 15  (long term elections) applies to an election
under this section.

213.8

Subsection  (9)  applies where—

213.8.a

an election under this section has been revoked, and

213.8.b

the adjusted profits of M fall to be determined for the first accounting
period in respect of which the election no longer applies (the “revocation
period”).

213.9

In determining those profits, the value of any gain or loss from the
disposition of an asset or liability by M is to be determined by reference to
the fair value of the asset or liability as at the first day of the revocation
period.

213.10

Subsection  (11)  applies where—

213.10.a

an election under this section has been revoked, and

213.10.b

the adjusted profits of M fall to be determined for an accounting period—

213.10.b.i

after the revocation period, but

213.10.b.ii

before an accounting period for which a further election under this section
has been made.

213.11

In determining those profits, the value of any gain or loss from the
disposition of an asset or liability by M is to be determined by reference to—

213.11.a

if M’s assets and liabilities are accounted for on a realisation basis, the
fair value of the asset or liability as at the first day of the revocation
period;

213.11.b

if M’s assets and liabilities are accounted for on a fair value basis, the
fair value of the asset or liability as accounted for at the end of the
previous accounting period.

###### Taxable distribution method election

214

214.1

The filing member of a multinational group may elect that a member of the
group (an “owner”) with direct ownership interests in an investment entity
that is a member of the group is to have those interests treated in accordance
with this section.

214.2

The filing member may only make such an election if—

214.2.a

an election under section  213  is not in effect in relation to the owner,

214.2.b

the owner is not itself an investment entity, and

214.2.c

the owner can reasonably be expected to be subject to tax (in the territory in
which it is located) on distributions from the entity at a rate equal to or
exceeding 15%.

214.3

If an election is made under this section, in calculating amounts under this
Part—

214.3.a

distributions and deemed distributions from the investment entity to the owner
in an accounting period are to be included in the adjusted profits of the
owner in that period;

214.3.b

credit the owner receives to reduce the tax payable by the owner in an
accounting period to reflect tax payable or to be paid by the entity in that
period is to be included in the adjusted profits of the owner in that period;

214.3.c

if the owner receives such credit, such tax payable or to be paid by the
entity in an accounting period is to be taken into account in determining the
covered tax balance of the owner in that period.

214.4

If an election is made under this section—

214.4.a

an undistributed income amount for the entity for an accounting period is to
be determined under section  215 , and

214.4.b

any positive undistributed income amount is to be added to the top-up amount
of that entity as determined under section  220 (1)  (see section  220 (2) ).

214.5

Paragraph  1  of  Schedule 15  (long term elections) applies to an election
under this section.

214.6

Subsection  (7)  applies where—

214.6.a

an election under this section has been revoked, and

214.6.b

the adjusted profits of the investment entity fall to be determined under
section  220  for the first accounting period in respect of which the election
no longer applies.

214.7

Those profits are to include any positive undistributed income amount for the
entity for the previous accounting period.

###### Undistributed income amount

215

215.1

The undistributed income amount for an investment entity for an accounting
period is the entity’s adjusted profits for the income period less the amounts
referred to in subsection  (2) .

215.2

The amounts are—

215.2.a

the covered taxes payable by the entity (determined in accordance with
Chapter 5 ) in the income period;

215.2.b

distributions and deemed distributions paid by the entity and received by
shareholders other than other investment entities in the review period;

215.2.c

if, on determining the adjusted profits for the accounting periods in the
review period, the entity has made a loss for one or more of those periods the
made a loss, the sum of those losses;

215.2.d

the investment loss carry-forward amount for the review period.

215.3

But an amount referred to in subsection  (2)  is not to be deducted from the
undistributed income amount for an accounting period if it has already been
deducted from the undistributed income amount for a previous accounting
period.

215.4

In  this section —

215.4.a

the “income period” is the third accounting period before the accounting
period for which the undistributed income amount falls to be determined;

215.4.b

the “review period” is the period beginning with the first day of the income
period and ending with the last day of the accounting period for which the
undistributed income amount falls to be determined;

215.4.c

a “deemed distribution” is an amount arising from the transfer of an ownership
interest held by the owner to a person that is not a member of the group;

215.4.d

the amount of a deemed distribution is to be calculated as the undistributed
income amount for the accounting period in which the transfer occurs
(disregarding the deemed distribution) multiplied by the transfer factor;

215.4.e

the transfer factor is the value of the ownership interest transferred divided
by the sum of that value and the value of the remaining ownership interest
held by the owner;

215.4.f

the “investment loss carry-forward amount” for a review period is the amount
of any losses not deducted from the undistributed income amount for any
accounting period preceding the review period.

##### Other adjustments

###### Election where assets and liabilities adjusted to fair value for tax purposes

216

216.1

This section  applies to a member of a multinational group if the filing
member has made an election under  this section  in respect of a relevant tax
adjustment made in an accounting period (“the adjustment period”) in relation
to that member.

216.2

A “relevant tax adjustment” is an adjustment to the value of assets or
liabilities of a member of a multinational group for tax purposes so that they
reflect fair value that is required or permitted, under the law of the
territory the member is located in, as a result of the occurrence of an event.

216.3

But adjustments made in connection with transfer pricing, or in connection
with the sale of assets in the course of carrying on a trade, are not relevant
tax adjustments.

216.4

Where  this section  applies to the member—

216.4.a

the member has an adjustment amount in respect of each asset or liability that
is subject to the relevant adjustment, and

216.4.b

the value of an asset or liability subject to the relevant adjustment is to be
treated, for the purpose of determining the member’s adjusted profits in the
adjustment period and subsequent accounting periods, as its fair value
immediately after occurrence of the event that caused, or enabled, the
adjustment to be made.

216.5

An adjustment amount is to be—

216.5.a

included in the adjusted profits of the member for the adjustment period, or

216.5.b

split into 5 equal amounts to be included in the adjusted profits of the
member in that period and the subsequent 4 accounting periods.

216.6

But where the adjustment amount is split between those accounting periods and
the member leaves the multinational group before the end of the 4th subsequent
accounting period, any amount of the adjustment amount that has not been
included in the adjusted profits of the member for a previous accounting
period is to be included in the adjusted profits of the member for the final
accounting period in which it was a member of the group.

216.7

The adjustment amount of a member of a multinational group in respect of an
asset or liability subject to a relevant adjustment is the amount given by—

216.7.a

subtracting the carrying value of the asset or liability immediately before
the event that caused, or enabled, the adjustment to be made from the fair
value of the asset immediately after occurrence of that event, and

216.7.b

if that event resulted in a non-qualifying gain or loss (within the meaning
given by  section 210 (2) ) for the member—

216.7.b.i

in the case of a non-qualifying gain, reducing the result of paragraph (a) by
the amount of that gain, or

216.7.b.ii

in the case of a non-qualifying loss, increasing the result of paragraph (a)
by the amount of that loss.

216.8

Paragraph 2  of  Schedule 15  (annual elections) applies to an election under
this section.

###### Post filing adjustments of covered taxes

217

217.1

This section  applies where, in an accounting period (“ the current period ”),
the liability of a member of a multinational group to covered taxes for a
prior accounting period (“the prior period”) as reflected in an information
return, overseas information return or self-assessment return (see  Schedule
14 ) has increased or decreased.

217.2

Subsection (4)  applies where—

217.2.a

that liability has increased, or

217.2.b

that liability has decreased and the decrease is to be treated as
insignificant.

217.3

Subsection (5)  applies where that liability has decreased, unless the
decrease is to be treated as insignificant.

217.4

Where  this subsection  applies, the covered tax balance of the member for the
current period is to be adjusted so as to reflect the amount of that increase
or decrease if not already reflected in that balance.

217.5

Where  this subsection  applies—

217.5.a

the following are to be recalculated for the prior period to take account of
the decrease—

217.5.a.i

the effective tax rate for the member and the other members of that group
located in the same territory,

217.5.a.ii

the top-up amounts that those members would have, and

217.5.a.iii

if the liability to covered taxes has decreased because of a reduction of the
member’s profits, its adjusted profits but only to the extent necessary to
prevent the effective tax rate from decreasing,

217.5.b

the adjusted profits of those members in subsequent accounting periods are to
be adjusted in consequence of the decrease, and the matters referred to in
paragraph (a)  recalculated accordingly, and

217.5.c

if the amount of the decrease is reflected in the covered tax balance of the
member for the current period, that balance is to be adjusted to exclude it.

217.6

Section 206  applies to a recalculation under  subsection (5) .

217.7

Where  subsection (5)  applies in relation to a decrease in liability to
covered taxes that arises as a result of the member offsetting a loss in a
later accounting period against profits in the prior period, the member is
treated for the purposes of this Part—

217.7.a

as having a deferred tax asset that arises in the later period that is equal
to the amount offset multiplied by the lesser of—

217.7.a.i

15%, and

217.7.a.ii

the tax rate that applied to the profits the amount was offset against, and

217.7.b

as having used that asset in the prior accounting period.

217.8

For the purposes of  this section , a decrease of liability is to be treated
as insignificant if—

217.8.a

  the reduction of the covered tax balance of the member for the prior period
resulting from  the aggregate decrease in liability for covered taxes for the
prior period is less than 1 million euros, and

217.8.b

the filing member has made an election for decreases in the prior period to be
treated as insignificant.

Paragraph 2  of  Schedule 15  (annual elections) applies to an election under
this subsection .

###### Effect of rate changes to deferred tax expense

218

218.1

Where—

218.1.a

the rate of tax for a member of a multinational group changes in an accounting
period,

218.1.b

the change in rate is to some extent relevant, and

218.1.c

the effect of the rate change would reduce the member’s covered tax balance in
a previous accounting period if the deferred tax expense in that period were
recalculated to take account of the change in the rate,

section 217  applies to so much of that reduction as reflects the extent of
the change in rate that is relevant as it applies to a decrease in liability
to covered taxes.

218.2

Where—

218.2.a

the rate of tax for a member of a multinational group changed in a previous
accounting period,

218.2.b

the change in rate is to some extent relevant,

218.2.c

the member’s deferred tax expense for the current accounting period reflects
the reversal of deferred tax assets or liabilities that were recognised in an
accounting period prior to the rate change at a different rate, and

218.2.d

the effect of the rate change would increase the member’s covered tax balance
in a previous accounting period if the deferred tax expense in that period
were recalculated to take account of the change in the rate,

section 217  applies to so much of that increase as reflects the extent of the
change in rate that is relevant as it applies to a increase in liability to
covered taxes.

218.3

For the purposes of  subsections (1)  and  (2) , a change of a rate of tax is
relevant to the extent that—

218.3.a

in the case of a rate that is increasing, it reflects an increase from below
15% to the lesser of—

218.3.a.i

the rate it is changed to, and

218.3.a.ii

15%, and

218.3.b

in the case of a rate that is decreasing, it reflects a decrease from the
lesser of—

218.3.b.i

the previous rate, and

218.3.b.ii

15%.

###### Adjustment where covered taxes not paid

219

219.1

Where an amount of current tax expense included in the covered tax balance of
a member of a multinational group for an accounting period is not paid before
the end of the period of 3 years commencing with the last day of that
accounting period, the following are to be recalculated excluding that amount—

219.1.a

the effective tax rate for the member and the other members of that group
located in the same territory, and

219.1.b

the top-up amounts that those members would have.

219.2

But  subsection (1)  does not apply unless the total of amounts included in
the covered tax balance for that accounting period which are not paid before
the end of that 3 year period exceeds 1 million euros.

219.3

Section 206  applies to a recalculation under  subsection (1) .

#### Special provision for investment entities, joint venture groups and minority-owned members

##### Investment entities

###### Top-up amount of investment entity

220

220.1

The top-up amount for an accounting period of a member of a multinational
group that is an investment entity is, subject to subsection  (2) , determined
by taking the following steps—

Step 1 Determine the adjusted profits (if any) of the entity for the period in
accordance with Chapter 4. If the adjusted profits are nil or less, the top-up
amount is nil. Otherwise, proceed to Step 2. Step 2 Adjust the result of Step
1 in accordance with section  223  (to the extent applicable). If the adjusted
result is nil, the top-up amount is nil. Otherwise, proceed to Step 3. Step 3
Determine the substance-based income exclusion for the entity for the period
(see section  221 ). Step 4 Adjust the result of Step 3 in accordance with
section  223  (to the extent applicable). Step 5 Subtract the result of Step 4
from the result of Step 2. If the result is nil or less, the top-up amount is
nil. Otherwise, proceed to Step 6. Step 6 Determine the investment entity
effective tax rate for the territory for the period (see section  222 ). Step
7 Subtract the result of Step 6 from 15%. If the result is nil or less, the
top-up amount is nil. Otherwise, proceed to Step 8. Step 8 Multiply the result
of Step 7 by the result of Step 5. This is the top-up amount for the entity.

220.2

If an election under section  214  (taxable distribution method election) has
been made in relation to the entity, the top-up amount for an accounting
period of the entity is the top-up amount determined under subsection  (1)
added together with any positive undistributed income amount for the entity
for the period (see section  215 ).

220.3

For the purposes of applying Chapter 4 in relation to an investment entity,
the references in   that Chapter   to “standard members” of a multinational
group are instead to members of the multinational group that are investment
entities.

###### Substance based income exclusion for investment entity

221

221.1

The substance based income exclusion for an investment entity is to be
determined by adding together—

221.1.a

the payroll carve-out amount of the entity, and

221.1.b

the tangible asset carve-out amount of the entity,

221.2

Section  195 (4)  applies to the determination of the payroll carve-out amount
of the entity as it applies for members of the group that are not investment
entities.

221.3

Section  195 (5)  applies to the determination of the tangible asset carve-out
amount of the entity as it applies for members of the group that are not
investment entities.

221.4

If the filing member for the group elects not to calculate the substance based
income exclusion for the period in a self-assessment (see   Schedule 14 ), the
exclusion is nil.

221.5

Paragraph  2  of  Schedule 15  (annual elections) applies to an election under
subsection  (4) .

###### Investment entity effective tax rate

222

The investment entity effective tax rate in a territory for an accounting
period is determined by taking the following steps—

      Step 1                                 Determine the adjusted profits
made by each of the investment entities in the territory, as determined under
Chapter 4 and adjusted under section  223 .
Step 2                                 Subtract the sum of the losses of those
investment entities that made a loss in that period from the sum of the
profits of those investment entities that made a profit in that period.
Step 3                                 If the result of Step 2 is nil or less,
the investment entity effective tax rate is to be treated as 15%. Otherwise,
proceed to Step 4.
Step 4                                 Determine the covered tax balance of
each such investment entity in accordance with Chapter 5.
Step 5                                 Adjust the amounts determined in Step 4
in accordance with section  223  (to the extent applicable).
Step 6                                 Add together the amounts determined in
Step 5 that are adjusted positive covered tax balances.
Step 7                                 Add together the amounts determined in
Step 5 that are adjusted negative covered tax balances.
Step 8                                 Subtract the result of Step 7 from the
result of Step 6.
Step 9                                 Divide the result of Step 8 by the
result of Step 1. This is the investment entity effective tax rate.

###### Adjustments

223

223.1

In this section each of the following amounts is a “relevant amount”—

223.1.a

the adjusted profits of an investment entity;

223.1.b

a substance based income exclusion for an investment entity;

223.1.c

the covered tax balance of an investment entity.

223.2

An external holding adjustment is to be made to each relevant amount if a
person that is not a member of the multinational group has ownership interests
in the entity and no election under section  213  (tax transparency election)
has been made in relation to the entity.

223.3

An election adjustment is to be made to each relevant amount if an election
under section  213  (tax transparency election) or  214  (taxable distribution
method election) has been made in relation to the entity.

223.4

Where both an external holding adjustment and an election adjustment are to be
made, the election adjustment is to be made after the external holding
adjustment (and accordingly is to be an adjustment of a relevant amount as
adjusted by the external holding adjustment).

223.5

An adjustment under this section is a reduction of the relevant amount by an
adjustment amount.

223.6

An adjustment amount is the adjustment factor for the type of adjustment
multiplied by the relevant amount.

223.7

The adjustment factor for an external holding adjustment is the value obtained
by dividing—

223.7.a

the amount of profits of the entity attributable to ownership interests held
by persons that are not members of the group, by

223.7.b

the total amount of profits of the entity determined under Chapter  4 .

223.8

The adjustment factor for an election adjustment is the value obtained by
dividing—

223.8.a

the amount of profits of the entity attributable to ownership interests held
by the owners in relation to which an election has been made, by

223.8.b

the total amount of profits of the entity attributable to ownership interests
held by members of the group.

223.9

The amount of profits attributable to ownership interests is to be determined
in accordance with the method in section  201 (2)  for determining the amount
of profits attributable to the ownership interests referred to in that
section.

223.10

Where the covered tax balance of an investment entity includes an amount
allocated to it under  section 179 (1)  or  180 (3) (a)  (allocation of tax
imposed under controlled foreign company tax regimes), only so much of its
covered tax balance as is not comprised of amounts allocated under those
sections is subject to adjustment under this section.

###### Additional top-up amounts of investment entities

224

224.1

Sections  202  to  207  apply in respect of a member of a multinational group
that is an investment entity such that the member may have additional top-up
amounts.

224.2

For that purpose—

224.2.a

references in those sections to the standard members of a multinational group
in a territory apply as if they were references to the investment entities of
the group in the territory;

224.2.b

the reference in section  202 (3)  to Step 2 in section  132 (1)  applies as
if it were a reference to Step 2 in  section 222 ;

224.2.c

sections  204 (4)  and  207 (2)  do not apply.

###### Attribution of top-up amounts and additional top-up amounts to responsible member

225

225.1

In this section “ top-up amount ” includes an additional top-up amount
determined under section  224 .

225.2

Section  200  applies to the attribution of a top-up amount of a member of a
multinational group that is an investment entity (“the relevant member”) to a
responsible member as it applies to a top-up amount of any other member of the
group.

225.3

Section  201  applies for the purpose of determining the inclusion ratio of
the responsible member, but—

225.3.a

in carrying out Step 1 in section  201 (1) —

225.3.a.i

the adjusted profits of the entity determined in that Step are to be further
adjusted in accordance with section  223  (to the extent applicable);

225.3.a.ii

if an election under section  214  (taxable distribution method election) has
been made in relation to the entity, the adjusted profits of the entity are to
be treated as including the undistributed income amount for the entity
determined under section  215 , and

225.3.b

subsection  (4)  of that section applies whether or not the relevant member is
a flow-through entity (so that entities that are not members of the group are
always ignored).

##### Joint venture group

###### Joint venture group

226

226.1

For the purposes of this Part “ joint venture group ” means a joint venture
parent of a qualifying multinational group and its joint venture subsidiaries
(together its “members”).

226.2

An entity is a joint venture parent of a multinational group if—

226.2.a

the financial results of that entity are reported under the equity method in
the consolidated financial statements of the ultimate parent of that group,

226.2.b

the ultimate parent holds at least 50% of the ownership interests in the
entity,

226.2.c

the entity is not the ultimate parent of a qualifying multinational group,

226.2.d

the entity is not an excluded entity,

226.2.e

the entity is not an entity owned by an excluded entity—

226.2.e.i

that only carries out activities that are ancillary to the activities of the
excluded entity,

226.2.e.ii

whose activities consist, wholly or almost wholly, of the holding of assets or
the investment of funds for the benefit of the excluded entity, or

226.2.e.iii

whose income is, wholly or almost wholly, excluded dividends or excluded
equity gains (or a mixture of both),

226.2.f

the multinational group of which the entity is a member is not composed
exclusively of excluded entities, and

226.2.g

the entity is not a joint venture subsidiary in relation to another joint
venture parent.

226.3

An entity is a joint venture subsidiary of a joint venture parent if its
assets liabilities, income, expenses and cash flows are included in the
consolidated financial statements of the joint venture parent.

226.4

Where the main entity of a permanent establishment is a joint venture parent
of a multinational group or a joint venture subsidiary, that permanent
establishment is to be treated as a separate joint venture subsidiary of the
same multinational group joint venture group.

###### Application of Part to joint venture groups

227

227.1

This Part applies to a joint venture group as it applies to a multinational
group, but  Chapters 3  to  6  and  8  of  this Part  and   Schedules 16 and
16A   apply as if—

227.1.a

references to the ultimate parent were to the joint venture parent of that
group,

227.1.b

references to a member of a multinational group were to the members of the
joint venture group, and.

227.1.c

references to the filing member were to the filing member of the multinational
group whose ultimate parent holds at least 50% of the ownership interests in
the joint venture parent.

227.2

For the purposes of the other provisions of this Part, the members of the
joint venture group are treated as members of   each multinational group
whose ultimate parent directly or indirectly holds at least 50% of the
ownership interests in the joint venture parent.

227.3

But no member of the joint venture group is to be regarded as an intermediate
parent member or a partially owned parent member of that group.

##### Minority owned members

###### Minority owned members

228

228.1

For the purposes of this Part, a member of a multinational group is a
“minority owned member” if—

228.1.a

the ultimate parent holds no more than 30% of the ownership interests in that
member, and

228.1.b

the member is not an investment entity.

228.2

If—

228.2.a

a minority owned member (“ M ”) holds (directly or indirectly) ownership
interests in another minority owned member, and

228.2.b

no other minority owned member holds (directly or indirectly) ownership
interests in M,

M is the minority owned parent of a minority subgroup, and the minority owned
members in which M has ownership interests are also members of that group.

228.3

For the purpose of determining the effective tax rate and top-up amounts of
members of a minority subgroup, this Part applies as if references to standard
members of a multinational group were instead to members of that subgroup.

228.4

For the purposes of determining the effective tax rate and top-up amounts of a
minority owned member that is not a member of a minority subgroup, this Part
applies as if references to standard members of a multinational group were
instead to that member.

##### Application to multi-parent groups

###### Multi-parent groups

229

229.1

Where two or more consolidated groups form part of a multi-parent group—

229.1.a

those groups (“the constituent groups”) are to be treated as a single
multinational group (and accordingly multinational top-up tax will be charged
in relation to that single group), and

229.1.b

the group’s members include (as well as the members who are members as a
result of  section 126 ) entities who would not be a member of any of the
constituent groups but in which a controlling interest is held by one or more
members of the constituent groups,

229.2

This Part  has effect, in its application to a multi-parent group, as if—

229.2.a

references (however framed) to the consolidated financial statements of the
ultimate parent were to the multi-parent consolidated financial statements,

229.2.b

references to the ultimate parent were to all of the ultimate parents of the
constituent groups, other than the reference in  section 128 (3) (b)
(responsible members).

229.3

Where ownership interests in an intermediate parent member of a multi-parent
group are held by more than one of the ultimate parents of the multi-parent
group,   section 128(3)   has effect as if for paragraph (b) there were
substituted—

229.3.b

any of the ultimate parents of the constituent groups that have ownership
interest in the intermediate parent member are not subject to Pillar Two IIR
tax, and

.

229.4

Where an intermediate parent member of a multi-parent group is not a member of
any of the constituent groups,  section 128  has effect in relation to it as
if—

229.4.a

paragraph  (b)  of subsection  (3)  were omitted, and

229.4.b

for  subsection (4)  there were substituted—

229.4.b.4

Such an intermediate parent member is responsible for each member of the group
it has an ownership interest provided the conditions in subsection (4A) are
met in relation to that member (“the owned member”).

229.4.b.4A

Those conditions are that—

229.4.b.4A.a

the owned member is not located in the same territory as the intermediate
parent member, and

229.4.b.4A.b

any of the ultimate parents of the constituent groups that has an ownership
interest in the owned member is not subject to Pillar Two IIR tax.

229.5

Unless a nomination under  paragraph 2 (2)  of  Schedule 14  is in force in
relation to a multi-parent group—

229.5.a

the ultimate parents of the constituent groups are jointly the filing member
of the multi-parent group, and

229.5.b

any liability for a penalty for a failure to comply with the obligations of
the filing member is the joint and several liability of those ultimate
parents.

229.6

For the purposes of  this section —

two or more consolidated groups form part of a “ multi-parent group ” if— the
ultimate parents of those groups are party to an arrangement that is a stapled
structure or a dual-listed arrangement, and at least one of the controlled
entities of those groups is not in the same territory as another of the other
controlled entities of those groups; “ controlled entity ” in relation to two
or more consolidated groups means— a member of any of those groups, and any
entity, other than a member of any of those groups, in which a controlling
interest is held by one or more members of those groups; “ stapled structure ”
means an arrangement entered into by two or more ultimate parents of
consolidated groups where the following conditions are met— as a result of the
arrangements, 50% or more of the ownership Interests in the ultimate parents
of the consolidated groups— are by reason of form of ownership, restrictions
on transfer, or other terms or conditions combined with each other, and cannot
be transferred or traded independently; if the combined ownership Interests
are listed, they are quoted at a single price; one of those ultimate parents
prepares, or together those parents prepare, consolidated financial
statements— in which the assets, liabilities, income, expenses and cash flows
of the controlled entities of those consolidated groups are presented together
as those of a single economic unit, and that are required by a regulatory
regime to be externally audited; “ dual-listed arrangement ” means an
arrangement entered into by two or more ultimate parents of consolidated
groups to combine their businesses by contract (rather than by the holding of
ownership interests in one another) where the following conditions are met—
the arrangements provide for the ultimate parents of the groups to make
distributions (with respect to dividends and in liquidation) to their
shareholders based on a fixed ratio, the arrangements provide for the
management of those businesses as a single economic entity while retaining
their separate legal identities, ownership interests in the ultimate parents
are quoted, traded or transferred independently in different capital markets,
and one of those ultimate parents prepares, or together those parents prepare,
consolidated financial statements— in which the assets, liabilities, income,
expenses and cash flows of the controlled entities of those consolidated
groups are presented together as those of a single economic unit, and that are
required by a regulatory regime to be externally audited; “ multi-parent
consolidated financial statements ” means— in relation to a multi-parent group
that is a multi-parent group as a result of a stapled structure, the
consolidated financial statements referred to in paragraph (c) of the
definition of stapled structure, or in relation to a multi-parent group that
is a multi-parent group as a result of a dual-listed arrangement, the
consolidated financial statements referred to in paragraph (d) of the
definition of dual-listed arrangement.

#### Definitions etc

##### Introduction

###### Meaning of terms and concepts used in 

230

230.1

The provisions of  this Chapter  define or otherwise explain terms and
concepts used in  this Part .

230.2

Unless the contrary appears, those provisions have effect for the purposes of
this Part.

##### Meaning of “entity” etc

###### Meaning of entity

231

231.1

In this Part “ entity ” means—

231.1.a

a company,  or

231.1.b

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

231.1.c

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

231.1.d

any  ... arrangement that results in the preparation of separate financial
accounts in respect of the activities carried out under the arrangement  (such
as a partnership or trust) .

231.2

An entity which is, or is part of, a national, regional or local government is
not to be regarded as an entity for the purposes of this Part.

231.3

Sections 232  to  238  make further provision about entities including
provision—

231.3.a

treating permanent establishments as entities,

231.3.b

defining various particular types of entities, and

231.3.c

about when entities are “tax transparent”.

###### Permanent establishments treated as entities

232

232.1

A “permanent establishment” of an entity (“the main entity”) means a place of
business of the main entity that—

232.1.a

is located in a territory other than the territory   in which the main entity
is located , and

232.1.b

meets any of the conditions in  paragraphs (a)  to  (d)  of  subsection (2) .

232.2

Those conditions are—

232.2.a

that the place of business is situated in a territory where it is treated as a
permanent establishment in accordance with an applicable tax treaty in force
provided that such territory taxes the income attributable to it in accordance
with a provision similar to Article 7 of the OECD tax model;

232.2.b

that the place of business is in a territory where there is no applicable tax
treaty in force and the territory, under its domestic law, taxes the income
attributable to such place of business on a net basis similar to the manner in
which it taxes its own tax residents;

232.2.c

that the place of business is in a territory that has no corporate income tax
system, but would be treated as a permanent establishment in accordance with
the OECD tax model provided that such territory would have had the right to
tax the income attributable to it in accordance with Article 7 of that model;

232.2.d

that—

232.2.d.i

the place of business does not meet any of the conditions in  paragraphs (a)
to  (c) , and

232.2.d.ii

the territory of the main entity exempts the income attributable to the place
of business’s operations.

232.3

For the purposes of  this Part , a permanent establishment is to be treated as
an entity distinct from the entity it is a permanent establishment of (whether
that would otherwise be the case or not).

232.3A

But an entity with a permanent establishment is not to be taken as having
ownership interests in that permanent establishment.

232.4

In  this section  “ place of business ” means a place of business as construed
in accordance with the OECD tax model, and includes a deemed place of business
for the purpose of that model, a tax treaty or the domestic law of a
territory.

232.5

In  this Part , a reference to “ the main entity ” in relation to a permanent
establishment is to be construed in accordance with  this section .

###### Partnerships

232A

232A.1

A partnership is to be regarded for the purposes of this Part as continuing to
be the same partnership regardless of a change in membership, provided that a
person who was a member before the change remains a member after the change.

232A.2

Where—

232A.2.a

ownership interests in a partnership are transferred to more than one
individual or entity, and

232A.2.b

the result is a partnership of which none of the original partners are
members,

that new partnership is to be treated as if it were the same partnership as
the old partnership.

232A.3

Where a partnership is otherwise dissolved in an accounting period—

232A.3.a

the partnership is to be treated as a continuing entity for the purpose of
dealing with its rights and obligations under this Part in respect of that
accounting period and previous accounting periods, and

232A.3.b

for the purposes of Schedule 14 (administration) each person who was a partner
in that accounting period (before the partnership’s dissolution) is to be
treated as a partner of the continuing entity.

232A.4

The reference in subsection (2) to a transfer of ownership interests includes
any series of transactions having the effect of a transfer (including by way
of the cancellation of interests and the issue of corresponding interests).

###### Treatment of protected cell companies

233

233.1

For the purposes of this Part—

233.1.a

a protected cell company is not to be regarded as an entity, and

233.1.b

each part of a protected cell company is to be treated as an entity distinct
from the others.

233.2

Accordingly—

233.2.a

the fact an entity is a part of a protected cell company is irrelevant to
determining whether it is a member of a consolidated group, and

233.2.b

the accounts of the protected cell company are not to be regarded as
consolidated financial statements.

233.3

In this Part—

“ protected cell company ” means a protected cell company incorporated under
Part 4 of the Risk Transformation Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/1212 ); a “
part ” of a protected cell company means its core or a cell of the company; “
core ” and “ cell ” have the meaning they have in those regulations.

###### Governmental, international and non-profit entities

234

234.1

An entity is a “governmental entity” if—

234.1.a

it is wholly owned by a national, regional or local government,

234.1.b

it has the principal purpose of—

234.1.b.i

carrying on a public function of that government, or

234.1.b.ii

managing or investing the assets of that government through investment
activities (such as the making and holding of investments or asset
management),

234.1.c

it is accountable to that government on its overall performance and provides
annual information reporting to that government,

234.1.d

it does not carry on a trade or business, other than an investment business
described in  paragraph (b) (ii) ,

234.1.e

its assets vest in that government on its dissolution, and

234.1.f

it does not make distributions of its profits to, or for the benefit of, any
person other than that government.

234.2

“ International organisation ” means an intergovernmental or supranational
organisation, or an entity that acts for, is part of, or is wholly owned by
such an organisation, provided—

234.2.a

the organisation is comprised primarily of governments,

234.2.b

the organisation has a headquarters, or privileges or immunities in respect of
its establishments, in the territory in which it is established, and

234.2.c

its governing documents, or the law of that territory, preclude the
distribution of its profits for the benefit of private persons.

234.3

An entity is a “non-profit organisation” if—

234.3.a

it is established and operated in the territory it is located in—

234.3.a.i

exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, artistic, cultural,
athletic, education, or other similar purposes, or

234.3.a.ii

as a professional organisation, business league, chamber of commerce, labour
organisation, agricultural or horticultural organisation, civic league or an
organisation operated exclusively for the promotion of social welfare, and

234.3.b

it meets all of the conditions mentioned in  subsection (4) .

234.4

Those conditions are that—

234.4.a

substantially all of the income from the activities it carries out for the
purposes it was established is exempt from income tax in the territory where
it is located,

234.4.b

it has no shareholders or members who have any interest in its income or
assets,

234.4.c

the income or assets of the entity may not be distributed to, or applied for
the benefit of, a private person or non-charitable entity other than—

234.4.c.i

pursuant to the conduct of the entity in carrying out activities for the
purposes for which it was established,

234.4.c.ii

as payment of reasonable compensation for services rendered or for the use of
property or capital, or

234.4.c.iii

as payment representing the fair market value of property which the entity has
purchased,

234.4.d

upon termination, liquidation or dissolution of the entity, all of its assets
must be distributed or revert to a non-profit organisation or to a
governmental entity of the territory in which the entity is located, and

234.4.e

the entity does not carry on a trade or business that is not directly related
to the purposes for which it was established.

###### Pension funds and pension services entities

235

235.1

An entity is a “pension fund” if—

235.1.a

it is an entity that is established and operated in a territory exclusively or
almost exclusively to administer or provide retirement benefits and ancillary
or incidental benefits to individuals where—

235.1.a.i

the entity is regulated as such in that territory, or

235.1.a.ii

those benefits are secured or otherwise protected by national regulations and
funded by a pool of assets held through a fiduciary arrangement or trust to
secure the fulfilment of the corresponding pension obligations against a case
of insolvency of the entity or the group the entity is a member of, or

235.1.b

  it is  a pension services entity.

235.2

An entity is a “pension services entity” if it is an entity established and
operated exclusively or almost exclusively—

235.2.a

to invest funds for the benefit of an entity falling with the description in
subsection (1) (a) , or

235.2.b

to carry out activities that are ancillary to the regulated activities carried
out by an entity falling with that description, provided that the entities are
members of the same group.

###### Investment funds and investment entities

236

236.1

An “investment fund” is an entity that meets all of the following conditions—

236.1.a

it is designed to pool assets (which may be financial and non-financial) from
a number of investors, at least some of which are not connected;

236.1.b

it invests in accordance with a defined investment policy;

236.1.c

it operates with a view to allowing its investors to reduce transaction,
research, and analytical costs, or to spread risk collectively;

236.1.d

it is primarily designed to generate investment income or gains, or protection
against a particular or general event or outcome;

236.1.e

investors have rights to the assets of the fund, or to income earned on those
assets, based on the contributions made by those investors;

236.1.f

the entity, or its management, is subject to a regulatory regime, that
includes anti-money laundering and investor protection regulation, of—

236.1.f.i

the territory in which the entity is established or managed, or

236.1.f.ii

in the case of a permanent establishment, the territory in which the main
entity is established or managed;

236.1.g

it is managed by an investment management professional on behalf of the
investors.

236.2

An “insurance investment entity” is an entity that meets all of the following
conditions—

236.2.a

the entity is not an investment fund under subsection  (1) , but would be an
investment fund if it were designed to pool assets from more than one investor
or those investors were required not to be connected;

236.2.b

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

236.2.c

the income or gains the entity is designed to generate are intended to offset
liabilities under insurance or annuity contracts;

236.2.d

no person other than members of the group has ownership interests in the
entity;

236.2.e

regulated entities hold 100% of the ownership interests in it (see section 244
for how to calculate this).

236.2A

An entity is a regulated entity if—

236.2A.a

the entity is subject to a regulatory regime in the territory in which it is
established or managed, and

236.2A.b

that regime is specific to persons engaged in the business of entering into
insurance or annuity contracts or of performing activities ancillary to such
business.

236.3

An entity is an investment entity if it is—

236.3.a

an investment fund,

236.3.b

a UK REIT or an overseas REIT equivalent,

236.3.c

an entity—

236.3.c.i

that is 95% owned by one or more entities falling within  paragraph (a)  or
(b) , and

236.3.c.ii

whose activities consist, wholly or almost wholly, of the holding of assets or
the investment of funds for the benefit of those owners,

236.3.d

an entity—

236.3.d.i

that is 85% owned by one or more entities falling within  paragraph (a)  or
(b) , and

236.3.d.ii

whose income is wholly or almost wholly excluded dividends or excluded equity
gains (or a mixture of both), or

236.3.e

an insurance investment entity.

236.4

For the purposes of  subsection (3)  references to an entity being 95% or 85%
owned by one or entities falling within  paragraph (a)  or  (b)  of that
subsection is to those entities together having at least that percentage of
the ownership interests in that entity.

###### Intermediate and partially-owned parent members

237

237.1

A member of a multinational group is a partially-owned parent member of that
group if—

237.1.a

it is not a permanent establishment, investment entity or the ultimate parent,

237.1.b

it has (directly or indirectly) an ownership interest in another member of the
group, and

237.1.c

more than 20% of the ownership interests that represent an entitlement to a
share of the profits of the member are held by persons that are not members of
the group.

237.2

A member of a multinational group is an intermediate parent member of the
group if—

237.2.a

it is not a permanent establishment, investment entity, a partially-owned
parent member or the ultimate parent, and

237.2.b

it has (directly or indirectly) an ownership interest in another member of the
group.

###### Tax transparency of entities

238

An entity is regarded as tax transparent in a territory   to the extent that
the territory treats the income, expenditure, profits   or   losses of the
entity, for the purposes of covered taxes, as the income, expenditure, profits
or   losses of the direct owner of the entity in proportion to its interest in
the entity.

##### Provision relating to location of entities

###### Location of entities

239

239.1

The normal rule for determining, for the purposes of  this Part , the
territory in which an entity is located is that—

239.1.a

if it is tax resident in a territory based on its place of management or place
of creation, or based on similar criteria, it is located in that territory, or

239.1.b

if it is not tax resident in any territory based on such criteria, it is
located in the territory in which it was created.

239.2

But  subsection (1)  does not apply to a flow-through entity or a permanent
establishment (as to which, see  section 240 ).

239.3

Where, in an accounting period, an entity is tax resident based on its place
of management, place of creation or similar criteria in more than one
territory and—

239.3.a

all of those territories are party to a tax treaty, and

239.3.b

for the purposes of the treaty the entity is deemed resident in one of those
territories,

the entity is treated as located in that territory for that period.

239.4

Otherwise, where an entity is tax resident in an accounting period based on
its place of management, place of creation or similar criteria in more than
one territory—

239.4.a

if the entity has accrued more covered taxes in an accounting period in one of
those territories than in the others, ignoring any taxes accrued in accordance
with a controlled foreign company tax regime, it is to be treated as located
in that territory for that period,

239.4.b

if paragraph (a) does not apply and the entity has a greater qualifying
substance based income exclusion amount in one of those territories than in
the others, it is to be treated as located in that territory for that period,
or

239.4.c

if neither  paragraph (a)  nor  (b)  applies—

239.4.c.i

if the entity is the ultimate parent of a multinational group, it is to be
treated as being located in the place where it was created for that period, or

239.4.c.ii

otherwise, the entity is a stateless entity for that period.

239.5

For the purposes of  subsection (4) (b)  “the qualifying substance based
income exclusion amount” for an entity for a period in a territory is—

239.5.a

if the substance based income exclusion is calculated for that period for that
territory, the sum of the payroll carve-out amount and the tangible asset
carve-out amount as would be determined under  section 195 (1)  for the entity
for that period if the entity were located in that territory, and

239.5.b

if the substance based income exclusion is not calculated for that period for
that territory, nil.

239.6

Where—

239.6.a

an entity is not (ignoring  this subsection ) subject to Pillar Two IIR tax
within the meaning of  section 128 ,

239.6.b

it is tax resident based on its place of management, place of creation or
similar criteria in the United Kingdom,

239.6.c

as a result of the application of subsection  ...  (4)  it is treated as not
being located in the United Kingdom, and

239.6.d

if it were located in the United Kingdom, it would be a responsible member of
a multinational group,

the entity is instead to be treated as located in the United Kingdom for the
purposes of  sections 122    , 128 and 129   of  this Part  (but not
otherwise).

239.7

For the purposes of  this Part —

239.7.a

a “stateless entity” is to be treated as not being located in any territory;

239.7.b

where an entity’s location changes during an accounting period, it is to be
treated as being located in the territory it was located, or was treated as
being located, at the start of that period.

###### Location of flow-through entities and permanent establishments

240

240.1

Where a flow-through entity would be a responsible member of a multinational
group if the entity were located in the territory in which it is created, it
is located in that territory.

240.2

Any other flow-through entity is a stateless entity.

240.3

A permanent establishment that is a permanent establishment falling within
paragraph (a)  of  section 232 (2)  (entity treated as permanent establishment
in accordance with tax treaty) is located in the territory where it is treated
as a permanent establishment in accordance with the tax treaty in accordance
with which it is treated as a permanent establishment.

240.4

A permanent establishment that is a permanent establishment falling within
paragraph (b)  of  section 232 (2)  (permanent establishment taxed on similar
basis to residents in absence of tax treaty) is located in the territory where
it is subject to net basis taxation based on its business presence.

240.5

A permanent establishment that is a a permanent establishment falling within
paragraph (c)  of  section 232 (2)  (permanent establishment located in
territory without corporate income tax) is located in the territory in which
it is situated.

240.6

A permanent establishment that is a permanent establishment falling within
paragraph (d)  of  section 232 (2)  (other permanent establishments) is a
stateless entity.

###### Pillar Two territories

241

241.1

In this Part “ Pillar Two territory ” means the United Kingdom and every other
territory specified as such in regulations made by the Treasury.

241.2

Regulations may only specify a territory as a Pillar Two territory if the
Treasury consider that provisions equivalent to this Part—

241.2.a

have effect under the law of that territory, or

241.2.b

will have effect under the law of that territory on or before the
specification has effect.

241.3

Regulations under this section may provide that the specification of a
territory is to have effect from a time before the regulations are made (but
may not provide that the specification of a territory previously specified
ceases to have effect before the regulations are made).

##### Ownership of entities

###### Ownership interests and controlling interests

242

242.1

In this Part “ ownership interest ” means a direct ownership interest or an
indirect ownership interest.

242.2

An entity or an individual (“ A ”) has a direct ownership interest in an
entity (“ B ”) if—

242.2.a

A has an interest (whether by way of shares, other security or otherwise) that
gives rise to a share of the profits, capital or reserves of B or of a
permanent establishment of B (whether on the making of a distribution of
profits, winding up or otherwise), and

242.2.b

that interest would, ignoring any requirement to consolidate the assets,
liabilities, income, expenses and cash flows of B in the consolidated
financial statements of A, be accounted for as equity in those statements.

242.3

An entity or an individual (“ C ”) has an indirect ownership interest in an
entity (“ D ”) if C has a direct ownership interest in—

242.3.a

an entity that has a direct ownership interest in D, or

242.3.b

an entity that has (as a result of the single or repeated application of this
subsection) an indirect ownership interest in D.

242.4

An entity (“ R ”) has a controlling interest in another entity (“ S ”) if
condition A or B is met.

242.5

Condition A is that as a result of an ownership interest R has in S—

242.5.a

R is required to consolidate the assets, liabilities, income, expenses and
cash flows of S on a line-by-line basis in accordance with an acceptable
financial accounting standard, or

242.5.b

R would have been required to do so if R had prepared consolidated financial
statements.

242.6

Condition B is that S is a permanent establishment of R.

###### Calculating percentage ownership interests of a specific entity or individual

243

243.1

For the purpose of determining the percentage ownership interests in an entity
(“ A ”) held by a specific entity or individual (“ B ”)—

243.1.a

ignore any indirect ownership interest not held by B, and

243.1.b

where B has an indirect ownership interest in A, reduce the direct ownership
interest from which it is derived by the amount of that indirect ownership
interest.

243.2

But this section does not apply for the purpose of any provision that requires
the calculation of direct ownership interests only.

###### Calculating percentage ownership interests of a class

244

244.1

For the purpose of determining the percentage of ownership interests in an
entity (“ A ”) held by a class of entities (“ B ”)—

244.1.a

ignore any indirect ownership interest required to be ignored as described in
subsection (2) , and

244.1.b

reduce any percentage direct ownership interest required to be reduced in
accordance with  subsection (3) .

244.2

An indirect ownership interest is to be ignored if—

244.2.a

it is an indirect ownership interest held by   an individual or by  an entity
that is not a member of B, or

244.2.b

it is an indirect ownership interest held by a member of B through another
entity that is a member of B.

244.3

Where a member of B holds an indirect ownership interest in A solely through
an entity, or entities, that are not members of B, the direct ownership
interest from which it is derived is to be reduced by the amount of that
indirect ownership interest.

244.4

This section  does not apply—

244.4.a

for the purpose of any provision that requires the calculation of direct
ownership interests only, or

244.4.b

for the purposes of  section 127 (6) (a)  and  (7) (a)  (whether an entity is
95% or 85% owned by qualifying excluded entities).

###### Calculating percentage ownership interests: excluded entities

245

245.1

For the purpose of determining, under  section 127 (6) (a)  and  (7) (a) , the
percentage of ownership interests in an entity (“ A ”) held by qualifying
excluded entities—

245.1.a

ignore any indirect ownership interest apart from ownership interests held
solely through one or more qualifying service entities or qualifying exempt
income entities, and

245.1.b

ignore any direct or indirect ownership interest required to be ignored as
described in  subsection (2) .

245.2

Where   an individual or  an entity holds an indirect ownership interest in A
solely through an entity, or entities, that are qualifying service entities or
qualifying exempt income entities, each direct and indirect ownership interest
from which it is derived is to be ignored.

###### Calculating percentage direct and indirect ownership interests

246

246.1

To determine the percentage of direct ownership interest an entity or
individual (“ E ”) has in an entity (“ F ”)—

246.1.a

add together the proportional entitlement of E to the following types of
interest that are relevant—

246.1.a.i

an interest that gives rise to a share of profits of F,

246.1.a.ii

an interest that gives rise to a share of the capital of F, and

246.1.a.iii

an interest that gives rise to a share of the reserves of F, and

246.1.b

if—

246.1.b.i

F issues all of those types of interest and all of those types are relevant,
divide the result of  paragraph (a)  by 3, or

246.1.b.ii

F only issues 2 of the relevant types of interest or there are only 2 types of
interest that are relevant and   F   issues both of them, divide the result of
paragraph (a)  by 2.

246.2

For the purposes of  subsection (1) —

246.2.a

where a provision under which a percentage of ownership interests is to be
determined refers to types of interest mentioned in those sub-paragraphs, the
types referred to are “relevant”, and

246.2.b

where such a provision does not refer to types of interest mentioned in  sub-
paragraphs (i)  to  (iii)  of  subsection (1) (a) , all of those types of
interest are “relevant”.

246.3

To determine the percentage indirect ownership interest an entity or
individual (“ G ”) has in an entity (“ H ”)—

246.3.a

determine the percentage indirect ownership interest arising as a result of
each stack through which it has an indirect ownership interest in H, and

246.3.b

add those percentage indirect ownership interests for those stacks together.

246.4

For the purposes of  subsection (3)  a “ stack ” means a chain of entities
through which G has an indirect ownership interest in H which is comprised of
an entity (“ J ”) which has a direct ownership interest in H and—

246.4.a

where G has a direct ownership interest in J, G, or

246.4.b

where G does not have a direct ownership interest in J—

246.4.b.i

G,

246.4.b.ii

an entity (“ K ”) which has a direct ownership interest in J and that G has a
direct or indirect ownership interest in, and

246.4.b.iii

where G does not have a direct ownership interest in K, an entity which has a
direct ownership interest in K and that G has a direct or indirect ownership
interest in, and so on until an entity is reached that G has a direct
ownership interest in.

246.5

To determine G’s percentage indirect ownership interest in H arising as a
result of a stack—

246.5.a

determine, in accordance with  subsection (1) —

246.5.a.i

J’s percentage direct ownership interest in H, and

246.5.a.ii

the percentage direct ownership interest each other member of the stack has in
the member of the stack it has a direct ownership interest in, and

246.5.b

multiply together the percentage direct ownership interests determined under
paragraph (a) .

###### Timing of transfers of interests

247

247.1

Where ownership interests in an entity are transferred from one entity or
individual to another entity or individual, that transfer is to be treated as
effective at the earlier of—

247.1.a

the time when the obligations of the parties to the transfer necessary to
effect the transfer have been met, and

247.1.b

the time when any of the substantive consideration for the transfer has been
provided,

(instead of at any earlier time when the transfer is effective).

247.2

In  subsection (1) (b)  the reference to “ substantive consideration ” means
any amount of the consideration for the transfer other than any amount
provided before the transfer which would not be refundable if the transfer did
not take place as a result of the transferee not meeting its obligations under
the arrangements to make the transfer.

###### Exclusion of indirect interests held through ultimate parent

248

For the purposes of determining whether an entity   or individual  has an
indirect ownership interest in a member of a multinational group (other than
the ultimate parent), ignore any indirect interests arising only as a result
of an ownership interest in the ultimate parent.

##### Financial statements and accounting period

###### Consolidated financial statements

249

249.1

The consolidated financial statements of an entity are—

249.1.a

where the entity is not the ultimate parent of a consolidated group whose only
members are that entity and its permanent establishments, the financial
statements prepared by the entity in accordance with acceptable accounting
standards in which the assets, liabilities, income, expenses and cash flows of
that entity and the entities it has a controlling interest in are presented as
those of a single economic unit,

249.1.b

where the entity is the ultimate parent of a consolidated group whose only
members are that entity and its permanent establishments, the financial
accounts of that entity that are prepared in accordance with an acceptable
accounting standard,

249.1.c

where the entity has prepared statements that would fall within  paragraph (a)
or  (b)  but they were not prepared in accordance with an acceptable
accounting standard, those statements but adjusted to prevent material
competitive distortions, or

249.1.d

where no statements were prepared falling within  paragraphs (a)  to  (c) ,
the statements that would have been prepared (whether or not the entity was
required to prepare such statements) in accordance with an authorised
accounting standard that is either—

249.1.d.i

an acceptable accounting standard, or

249.1.d.ii

a financial accounting standard whose application is adjusted to prevent
material competitive distortions.

249.2

But  subsection (1) (d)  is not to be taken as imposing a requirement to
consolidate entities where that is not required, or is not permitted, by   the
authorised accounting standard  that is used as the basis for the statements
that would have been prepared .

249.3

“ Authorised accounting standard ” in relation to an entity means a set of
generally acceptable accounting principles permitted by the body responsible
for prescribing, establishing or accepting accounting standards for financial
reporting purposes in the territory the entity is located in.

249.4

There are “competitive distortions” in accounts not prepared in accordance
with an acceptable accounting standard if the result of the application of one
or more specific principles or procedures under the standard under which it
was prepared results in differences between—

249.4.a

the treatment of items in those accounts, and

249.4.b

the treatment of those items in accounts prepared in accordance with the
corresponding principles or procedures under international financial reporting
standards.

249.5

Competitive distortions are “material” if the sum of the differences between
the treatment of items in the accounts referred to in  subsection (4)  exceeds
75 million euros.

###### Acceptable accounting standards

250

250.1

In  this Part  “ acceptable accounting standards ” means—

250.1.a

UK GAAP,

250.1.b

acceptable overseas GAAP, or

250.1.c

international financial reporting standards.

250.2

“UK GAAP”—

250.2.a

means generally accepted accounting practice in relation to accounts of UK
companies (other than accounts prepared in accordance with international
accounting standards or international financial reporting standards) that are
intended to give a true and fair view, and

250.2.b

has the same meaning in relation to entities other than companies, and
companies that are not UK companies, as it has in relation to UK companies.

250.3

“ Acceptable overseas GAAP ” means the generally accepted accounting practice
and principles of any of the following—

Australia; Brazil; Canada; an EEA state; the Hong Kong Special Administrative
Region of the People‘s Republic of China; Japan; Mexico; New Zealand; the
People’s Republic of China; the Republic of India; the Republic of Korea;
Singapore; Switzerland; the United States of America.

250.4

The Treasury may by regulations amend  subsection (3)  to add or remove
territories.

250.5

In this section “ UK companies ” means companies incorporated or formed under
the law of a part of the United Kingdom.

###### Accounting periods

251

251.1

The general rule is that reference to an accounting period in relation to a
multinational group, or any member of that group, is to an accounting period
for which the ultimate parent prepares its consolidated financial statements.

251.2

Where the ultimate parent does not prepare consolidated financial statements,
references to accounting periods are to the period of a year commencing on 1
January.

251.3

But—

251.3.a

where an accounting period (“the default period”) has started as a result of
the rule in subsection (2), but the ultimate parent prepares consolidated
financial statements during the default period for a period commencing with a
date after the start of the default period, the default period is to end
immediately before that date, and

251.3.b

where the ultimate parent had previously prepared consolidated financial
statements for accounting periods, the accounting period that follows the last
period for which it had prepared consolidated financial statements begins
immediately after that last period and ends immediately before 1 January in
the following year.

###### Meaning of country-by-country report

251A

251A.1

In this Part “ country-by-country report ” means a country-by-country report
in respect of a multinational group that is prepared and filed in accordance
with legislation implementing the OECD’s guidance on country-by-country
reporting.

251A.2

But where the legislation of a territory permits the preparation and filing of
a partial country-by country report, such a partial report is not to be
regarded as country-by-country report for the purposes of this Part.

251A.3

Reference to a country-by-country report in respect of a multinational group
that is a multi-parent group is to a report in respect of all of the
constituent groups.

251A.4

“ The OECD’s guidance on country-by-country reporting ” means the guidance on
country-by-country reporting contained in the Organisation for Economic Co-
operation and Development (“ OECD ”) Guidance on Transfer Pricing
Documentation and Country-by-Country Reporting, published in 2014, as
modified, supplemented or replaced from time to time.

##### Miscellaneous

###### Application to sovereign wealth funds

252

252.1

A sovereign wealth fund that would, ignoring this subsection, be the ultimate
parent of a multinational group is not to be regarded as the ultimate parent
of that group and is to be ignored for the purposes of  this Part .

252.2

Accordingly, an entity (“ A ”) in which such a sovereign wealth fund has a
controlling interest as a result of direct ownership interests is to be
regarded as the ultimate parent of a consolidated group consisting of—

252.2.a

itself, and

252.2.b

the entities that A has a controlling interest in.

252.3

For the purposes of  this section  “ sovereign wealth fund ” means an entity
which is a   governmental   entity for the purposes of  this Part  as a result
of meeting the condition in  section 234 (1) (b) (ii) .

###### Disqualified and qualified refundable imputation taxes

253

253.1

An amount of tax payable by a member of a multinational group is “disqualified
refundable imputation tax” if—

253.1.a

it is—

253.1.a.i

  as a result of a dividend made by the member,   refundable to the beneficial
owner of the dividend,

253.1.a.ii

creditable by the beneficial owner of such a dividend against a tax liability
other than a tax liability in respect of that dividend, or

253.1.a.iii

refundable to an entity upon the distribution of a dividend, and

253.1.b

it is not qualified refundable imputation tax.

253.2

An amount of tax payable by a member of a multinational group is “qualified
refundable imputation tax” to the extent—

253.2.a

it is refundable or creditable to the beneficial owner of a dividend
distributed by—

253.2.a.i

the member, or

253.2.a.ii

where the member is a permanent establishment, the main entity, and

253.2.b

the refund is payable, or the credit is provided—

253.2.b.i

under a foreign tax credit regime by a territory other than the territory that
imposed the tax on the member,

253.2.b.ii

to a beneficial owner of the dividend subject to tax in the territory imposing
the tax payable by the member, provided the nominal rate of that tax that is
at least 15%,

253.2.b.iii

to a beneficial owner of the dividend who is an individual who is tax resident
in that territory and who is subject to tax on the dividends as ordinary
income,

253.2.b.iv

to a governmental entity or an international organisation,

253.2.b.v

to a resident non-profit organisation  or a resident pension fund    ...

253.2.b.va

a resident investment entity that is not a member of the group, or

253.2.b.vi

to a resident life insurance company to the extent the dividends are received
in connection with a pension fund business and subject to tax in a similar
manner as a dividend received by a pension fund.

253.3

For the purposes of  sub-paragraphs (v)  and  (vi)  of  subsection (2) (b) ,
an entity is a resident entity if it is resident in the territory that imposed
the tax, and for those purposes—

253.3.a

a non-profit organisation or pension fund is resident in a territory if it is
created and managed in that territory;

253.3.b

an investment entity is resident in a territory if it is created and regulated
in that territory;

253.3.c

a life insurance company is resident in a territory if it is located there
(see  section 239 ).

###### Use of currency

254

254.1

Calculations under this Part in relation to a multinational group, or any
member of such a group, are to be carried out in the currency of the
consolidated financial statements of the ultimate parent (“the CFS currency”).

254.2

Where it is necessary to convert an amount into the CFS currency, that
conversion is to be made in accordance with the authorised accounting
standard—

254.2.a

that was used in preparing the consolidated financial statements of the
ultimate parent, or

254.2.b

where no such statements were prepared, that is used as the basis for the
statements that would have been prepared.

254.3

For the purpose of comparing an amount to a figure expressed in this Part in
euros, the amount is to be converted to euros for that purpose (from the CFS
currency) by reference to the average exchange rate for the month of December
that preceded the beginning of the accounting period to which the amount
relates.

254.4

Where the European Central Bank publishes exchange rates for the CFS currency,
use those rates for the purposes of the conversion under subsection (3) and
any conversion under step 4 in section 123 (amount charged by reference to
top-up amounts).

254.5

Otherwise—

254.5.a

where the Bank of England publishes exchange rates for the CFS currency, use
those rates for the purposes of that conversion, or

254.5.b

where the Bank of England does not publish exchange rates for that currency,
use such a rate as appears, on a just and reasonable basis, to reflect the
average exchange rate for the period in question.

###### Pillar Two rules

255

255.1

In this Part references to the “ Pillar Two rules ” are to the Pillar Two
model rules as interpreted in accordance with, and supplemented by—

255.1.a

the Pillar Two commentary, and

255.1.b

any further commentaries or guidance published from time to time by the OECD
that are relevant to the implementation of the Pillar Two model rules.

255.2

In  subsection (1) —

“ Pillar Two model rules ” means the model rules published by the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development as “Tax Challenges Arising from the
Digitalisation of the Economy – Global Anti-Base Erosion Model Rules (Pillar
Two): Inclusive Framework on BEPS”; “ Pillar Two commentary ” means the
following— the commentary on the Pillar Two model rules published by the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development as “Tax Challenges
Arising from the Digitalisation of the Economy – Commentary to the Global
Anti-Base Erosion Model Rules (Pillar Two)”, and the examples illustrating the
application of the Pillar Two model rules published by the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development as “Tax Challenges Arising from the
Digitalisation of the Economy – Global Anti-Base Erosion Model Rules (Pillar
Two) Examples”.

255.2A

Pillar Two rules apply to a member of a multinational group (“the relevant
member”) in an accounting period if conditions A, B and C are met.

255.3

  Condition A is met if—

255.3.a

the group is a qualifying multinational group  for the accounting period , or

255.3.b

the group would be a qualifying multinational group  for the accounting period
but is not only as a result of Condition B in  section 129 (3)  (requirement
that at least one member located in the United Kingdom).

255.4

Condition B is that—

255.4.a

the ultimate parent is subject to Pillar Two IIR tax for the accounting period
and is not located in the same territory as the relevant member,

255.4.b

an intermediate parent member of the group is subject to Pillar Two IIR tax
for the accounting period, is not located in the same territory as the
relevant member and has an ownership interest in—

255.4.b.i

the relevant member, or

255.4.b.ii

a member of the group located in the same territory as the relevant member, or

255.4.c

any member of the group is located in a territory in which a qualifying
undertaxed profits tax is in force for the accounting period.

255.5

Condition C is that no transitional safe harbour election applies to the
relevant member for that period.

255.6

For the purposes of this Part “ transitional safe harbour election ” means—

255.6.a

an election under paragraph 3(1) (transitional safe harbour), or

255.6.b

an election corresponding to that election for the purposes of a tax imposed
by a Pillar Two territory that is equivalent to multinational top-up tax so
far as it relates to top-up tax under the IIR (within the meaning of the
Pillar Two rules).

###### Qualifying domestic top-up tax

256

256.1

For the purposes of  this Part  a tax is a “qualifying domestic top-up tax” if
it is—

256.1.a

domestic top-up tax (see  Part 4 ), or

256.1.b

specified in a regulations made by the Treasury.

256.2

A tax may only be specified in regulations if the Treasury consider that it is
equivalent in substance to domestic top-up tax (see Part 4).

256.3

A tax may be considered equivalent to domestic top-up tax despite being not
being calculated in accordance with the financial accounting standard used in
the consolidated financial statements of the ultimate parent if calculated in
accordance with an authorised accounting standard that is either—

256.3.a

an acceptable accounting standard, or

256.3.b

another financial accounting standard that is adjusted to prevent material
competitive distortions.

256.4

Regulations under this section may provide that the specification of a tax is
to have effect from a time before the regulations are made (but may not
provide that the specification of a tax previously specified ceases to have
effect before the regulations are made).

###### Qualifying domestic top-up tax treated as not accruing where contested etc

256A

256A.1

Subsection (2) applies for the purposes of sections 194(2) to (7), 203(3) to
(7) and 206(4) to (8) (application of QDT credits in determination of top-up
amounts).

256A.2

An amount of qualifying domestic tax accruing to a member of a multinational
group is to be treated as not accruing to the member where the enforceability
of the amount is in question.

256A.3

For the purposes of this section, the enforceability of an amount of
qualifying domestic top-up tax accruing to a member of a multinational group
is in question if—

256A.3.a

the member disputes its enforceability on any of the grounds set out in
subsection (4), or

256A.3.b

the tax authority of the territory in which the qualifying domestic top-up tax
is imposed considers the amount unenforceable on the basis of any of those
grounds.

256A.4

Those grounds are that—

256A.4.a

the amount is unenforceable on constitutional grounds or as a result of other
superior law applying in the territory in which the qualifying domestic top-up
tax is imposed, or

256A.4.b

the amount is unenforceable as a result of a specific agreement with the
government of that territory as to the tax liability of the member or the
group.

256A.5

Subsection (2) ceases to apply where the enforceability of an amount of
qualifying domestic top-up tax ceases to be in question.

256A.6

Where the enforceability of an amount of qualifying domestic top-up tax was in
question, it ceases to be in question where—

256A.6.a

the amount has been paid, and

256A.6.b

the enforceability of the amount may no longer be disputed as a result of—

256A.6.b.i

a settlement,

256A.6.b.ii

the time for any appeal having passed and there being no reasonable prospect
of the time being extended, or

256A.6.b.iii

the exhaustion of any rights to appeal.

###### Qualifying undertaxed profits tax

257

257.1

For the purposes of  this Part  a tax is a “qualifying undertaxed profits tax”
if it is specified in regulations made by the Treasury.

257.2

A tax may only be specified in regulations if the Treasury consider that the
tax is an appropriate means of implementing the UTPR (within the meaning of
the Pillar Two rules).

257.3

Regulations under this section may provide that the specification of a tax is
to have effect from a time before the regulations are made (but may not
provide that the specification of a tax previously specified ceases to have
effect before the regulations are made).

###### Meaning of “connected”

258

For the purposes of this Part, a person or entity is “connected” with an
entity if they are “closely related” within the meaning of Article 5(8) of the
OECD tax model.

###### Other definitions

259

259.1

In  this Part —

“ company ” means a body corporate;   “ deemed distribution ” has the meaning
given by section 215(4)(c);   “ for accounting purposes ” means for the
purposes of accounts drawn up in accordance with acceptable accounting
standards; “ held for sale ” has the meaning given by international accounting
standards; “ HMRC ” means His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs; “ international
financial reporting standards ” or “ international accounting standards ”
means those standards as issued or adopted, from time to time, by the
International Accounting Standards Board; “ OECD tax model ” means the Model
Tax Convention on Income and on Capital published (from time to time) by the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development; “ overseas REIT
equivalent ” means an entity resident in a territory outside the United
Kingdom that is the equivalent of a UK REIT;   “ partnership ” does not
include anything that is a body corporate;   “ tax treaty ” means an
international agreement for, or provision of an international agreement
concerned with,   the avoidance of double taxation with respect to taxes on
income and on capital; “ UK REIT ” means— a company UK REIT within the meaning
of Part 12 of CTA 2010 (see section 524 of that Act), or a company that is a
member of a group UK REIT within the meaning of that Part (see sections 523
and 606 of that Act); an “ uncertain tax position ”, in relation to an amount
of covered taxes, exists where the amount as reflected in the underlying
profits accounts is different to how it is, or will be, reflected in a tax
return because of uncertainty over whether the tax authority in question will
accept the basis on which it is reflected in that return.

259.2

For the purposes of this Part, an individual is “tax resident” in a territory
if—

259.2.a

in the case of the United Kingdom, the individual is resident for income tax
purposes, and

259.2.b

in any other territory, the individual is resident for the purposes of a tax
on income imposed under the law of that territory.

259.3

Where a term in this Part has a meaning for accounting purposes, unless the
context otherwise requires, it has that meaning in this Part.

259.4

Examples of such terms include—

carrying value; current tax; deferred tax; deferred tax expense; deferred tax
asset; deferred tax liability; fair value; impairment; tax expense.

#### General and miscellaneous provision

##### Transitional provision and safe harbours

260

260.1

Schedule 16 contains transitional provision and provision about a general
transitional safe harbour.

260.2

Schedule 16A contains provision about other safe harbours.

##### Index of defined expressions

261

Schedule 17  contains a table that lists terms defined for  this Part  and the
provisions that define or explain them.

##### Power to amend to ensure consistency with Pillar Two

262

262.1

Where the Treasury consider it necessary for the purpose of ensuring
consistency with the Pillar Two rules, the Treasury may by regulations—

262.1.a

make further provision about the application of provisions of  this Part    ,
Part 4 or any of Schedules 14 to 16A and 18 , or

262.1.b

amend  this Part    , Part 4 or any of Schedules 14 to 18 .

262.1A

The provision that may be made by regulations under subsection (1) includes
provision designed to secure the effective implementation of the Pillar Two
rules including—

262.1A.a

provision to ensure consistency with commentaries or guidance published by the
OECD that has effect from a time before the commentary or guidance was
published;

262.1A.b

provision that the Treasury consider necessary to secure the effective
operation of multinational top-up tax or domestic top-up tax (see Part 4)
where—

262.1A.b.i

the provision does not, at the time of making it, reflect the Pillar Two
rules, but

262.1A.b.ii

it is reasonable for the Treasury to believe that changes will be made to the
rules that are consistent with, or are similar to, the provision.

262.1B

Provision made by regulations under subsection (1) may not have effect—

262.1B.a

in the case of provision falling within subsection (1A)(a), in relation to
accounting periods ending before the commentary or guidance was published, or

262.1B.b

in the case of any other provision, in relation to accounting periods ending
before the regulations are made.

262.1C

Provision that has effect in relation to accounting periods that begin before
the regulations are made may only be made if the Treasury consider that the
provision is generally beneficial to—

262.1C.a

persons affected by the implementation of the Pillar Two rules, or

262.1C.b

persons affected by the provision.

262.1D

The reference in subsection (1C) to provision being generally beneficial
includes the provision being beneficial by reference to it—

262.1D.a

simplifying, or reducing the costs of, compliance with—

262.1D.a.i

multinational top-up tax or domestic top-up tax, or

262.1D.a.ii

taxes imposed under the law of a territory outside the United Kingdom that
correspond to multinational top-up tax or domestic top-up tax;

262.1D.b

generally (but not necessarily in every case) resulting in a reduction or
elimination of a liability to—

262.1D.b.i

multinational top-up tax or domestic top-up tax, or

262.1D.b.ii

taxes imposed under the law of a territory outside the United Kingdom that
correspond to multinational top-up tax or domestic top-up tax.

262.2

The power in this section may not be exercised after 31 December 2026.

##### Regulations

263

263.1

A power to make regulations under  this Part  includes a power to make
consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional or saving provision.

263.2

Regulations under  this Part  are to be made by statutory instrument.

263.3

A statutory instrument containing (whether alone or with other provision)
regulations made under  section 262 (1) (b)  is subject to the made
affirmative procedure.

263.4

Otherwise, a statutory instrument containing regulations under  this Part  is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of the House of Commons.

263.5

Where a statutory instrument is subject to “the made affirmative procedure”—

263.5.a

it must be laid before the House of Commons after being made, and

263.5.b

it ceases to have effect at the end of the period of 28 sitting days beginning
with the day on which the instrument is made, unless within that period the
instrument is approved by a resolution of the House of Commons.

263.6

Where regulations cease to have effect as a result of  subsection (5) , that
does not—

263.6.a

affect anything previously done under the regulations, or

263.6.b

prevent the making of new regulations.

263.7

In  this section , “ sitting day ” means a day on which the House of Commons
is sitting (and a day is only a day on which the House of Commons is sitting
if the House begins to sit on that day).

##### Multinational top-up tax to apply from 31 December 2023

264

This Part has effect in relation to accounting periods commencing on or after
31 December 2023.

### Domestic top-up tax

#### Introduction

##### Introduction to domestic top-up tax

265

265.1

The purpose of  this Part  is to make provision for a qualified domestic
minimum top-up tax within the meaning of the Pillar Two rules.

265.2

For that purpose,  this Part  makes provision for a tax payable in respect of
qualifying entities (that will be located in the United Kingdom) whose rate of
tax (as determined in accordance with  this Part ) is less than 15%.

265.3

The tax is to be known as “ domestic top-up tax ”.

265.4

This Part  applies (with modifications) many of the provisions of  Part 3
(multinational top-up tax) for the purposes of—

265.4.a

determining liability to domestic top-up tax, and

265.4.b

administering domestic top-up tax.

265.5

Except where the contrary appears, expressions used in  this Part  and in
Part 3  (multinational top-up tax) have the same meaning in  this Part  as
they have in  Part 3 .

##### Qualifying entities

266

266.1

An entity is qualifying for an accounting period if it is not a DTT excluded
entity  ..., it meets condition A for that period and—

266.1.a

if it is not a member of a group, it meets condition B for that period, or

266.1.b

if it is a member of a group, it meets condition C for that period.

266.2

Condition A is met by an entity for an accounting period if it is located in
the United Kingdom in that period (see  section 239  in  Part 3 ).

266.3

Condition B is met by an entity for an accounting period if the entity has
revenue that exceeds the threshold set out in  subsection (6)  in at least 2
previous accounting periods of the previous 4 accounting periods.

266.4

For the purposes of condition B, the revenue of an entity that is not a member
of a group is to be determined by reference to its qualifying financial
statements.

266.5

Condition C is met by a member of a group for an accounting period if the
members of the group have revenue that exceeds the threshold set out in
subsection  (6)  in at least 2 previous accounting periods of the previous 4
accounting periods.

266.6

The threshold for an accounting period is the amount given by multiplying 750
million euros by the amount given by dividing the number of days in the
accounting period by 365.

266.7

For the purposes of condition C, the revenue of the members of a group for a
period is to be determined by reference to the consolidated financial
statements of the ultimate parent for that period (see  sections 126 (2)  and
249  in  Part 3 ).

266.8

Sections 130  and  131  in  Part 3  (change in composition of multinational
groups) apply for the purpose of Condition C as if—

266.8.a

references to “multinational group” were to “group”,

266.8.b

in  section 130 —

266.8.b.i

in  subsection (1) , for “condition A in  section 129 (2) ” there were
substituted  “condition C in  section 266 (5) ” ,

266.8.b.ii

in  subsection (4) , for “ section 129 (4) ” there were substituted  “ section
266 (6) ” ,

266.8.c

in  section 131 (1) —

266.8.c.i

for “ section 129 ” there were substituted  “ section 266 ” ,

266.8.c.ii

for “ subsection (2) ” there were substituted  “ subsection (5) ” ,

266.8.c.iii

for “condition A” there were substituted  “condition C” , and

266.8.c.iv

for “ section 129 (4) ” there were substituted  “ section 266 (6) , and

266.8.d

in  section 131 (2) , for “condition A in  section 129 (2) ” there were
substituted  “condition C in  section 266 (5) ”

266.9

References in  this Part  to a “ group ” (other than in the expression
“multinational group”) means a consolidated group (see  section 126 (2)  in
Part 3 ).

266.10

For the purposes of  this Part  “ qualifying financial statements ” in
relation to an entity means—

266.10.a

financial statements of the entity prepared in accordance with acceptable
accounting standards, or

266.10.b

where no such accounts were prepared, the statements that would have been
prepared (whether or not the entity was required to prepare such statements)
in accordance with an authorised accounting standard that is either—

266.10.b.i

an acceptable accounting standard, or

266.10.b.ii

a financial accounting standard whose application is adjusted to prevent
material competitive distortions (see  section 249 (4) ).

##### DTT excluded entities

267

267.1

An entity is a DTT excluded entity if—

267.1.a

it falls within  subsection (3)  of  section 127  in  Part 3  (excluded
entities),

267.1.b

it is a member of a multinational group and falls within  subsection (4)  of
that section, or

267.1.c

it is a member of a group that is not a multinational group, but would fall
within that subsection if that group were a multinational group.

267.2

A DTT excluded entity falling within subsection (1)   or (3B)(b)  (as well as
not being a qualifying entity) is, for the purposes of the provisions of  this
Part  other than  section 266  and  this section , to be treated as not being
a member of any group.

267.3

A qualifying transformer vehicle that is not a member of a multinational group
is also a DTT excluded entity.

267.3A

A securitisation company that is not a member of a group for the purposes of
domestic top-up tax is a DTT excluded entity (and see section 267A).

267.3B

An investment entity is a DTT excluded entity if—

267.3B.a

it is not a member of a group, or

267.3B.b

it is a member of group that is comprised only of members located in the
United Kingdom.

267.3C

An investment entity that is a member of a group that is not comprised only of
members located in the United Kingdom—

267.3C.a

is not to be regarded as a qualifying entity, but

267.3C.b

top-up amounts of that entity are to be determined under sections 220 to 224
(see also section 272(8)(e) which has the effect of attributing those amounts
to standard members of the group that are qualifying entities and are located
in the same territory as the investment entity).

267.3D

An investment entity that falls within subsection (3C) is not to be regarded
as a member of any group for any purpose other than for the purposes of—

267.3D.a

determining the top-up amounts of that entity under those sections,

267.3D.b

applying Condition C in section 266 in relation to other members of the group
(revenue threshold for group), and

267.3D.c

subsections (8)(e) (9), (10) and (11) of section 272.

267.4

In this section

   “ qualifying transformer vehicle ” means—  a qualifying transformer vehicle
within the meaning of the Risk Transformation (Tax) Regulations 2017 ( S.I.
2017/1271 ), or a part of a protected cell company that is a qualifying
transformer vehicle within the meaning of those Regulations;   “
securitisation company ” has the meaning it has in the Taxation of
Securitisation Companies Regulations 2006 (see regulation 4).

##### Securitisation companies in a group treated as not consolidated

267A

267A.1

Subsection (2) applies to a securitisation company that is a member of a
group.

267A.2

The company is only to be regarded as a member of the group for the purposes
of applying Condition C in section 266 in relation to other members of the
group (revenue threshold for group).

267A.3

Otherwise, the company is to be treated as not being a member of any group for
the purposes of domestic top-up tax.

##### Permanent establishments

268

Section  232 (3)  (permanent establishment treated as distinct from entity it
is a permanent establishment of) applies for the purposes of  this Part  as it
applies for the purposes of  Part 3 .

##### Partnerships

268A

Section 232A (partnerships) applies for the purposes of this Part as it
applies for the purposes of Part 3.

#### Charge to domestic top-up tax

##### Chargeable persons

269

269.1

A person is chargeable to domestic top-up tax for an accounting period if—

269.1.a

the person is a qualifying entity for that period and is a body corporate or a
partnership  ..., or

269.1.b

the person is chargeable to tax in respect of an entity—

269.1.b.i

that is a qualifying entity for that period, and

269.1.b.ii

that is not a body corporate or a partnership  ....

269.2

A person is chargeable to tax in respect of an entity if the profits of that
entity would, on the relevant assumptions, be the profits of the person for
the purposes of income tax or corporation tax.

269.3

The relevant assumptions are that—

269.3.a

the entity has profits that are chargeable to income tax or corporation tax,
and

269.3.b

the person is resident in the United Kingdom for the purposes of that tax.

269.4

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

269.5

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

269.6

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

269.7

Where more than one person is chargeable to tax in relation to the same
qualifying entity as a result of the application of  subsection (2) , each of
those persons is jointly and severally liable to domestic top-up tax.

##### Amount charged

270

270.1

Where a person is chargeable to domestic top-up tax for an accounting period
as a qualifying entity or in respect of a qualifying entity, the amount (if
any) the person must pay is determined as follows—

Step 1 Determine whether the entity has any top-up amounts or additional top-
up amounts for that period and the extent of those amounts. Step 2 Determine
the sum of those amounts. Step 3 If the result of Step 3 is not expressed in
sterling, convert the result of that Step to sterling.

270.2

Generally, a qualifying entity will have a top-up amount for an accounting
period if it has profits for a period and its effective tax rate (or, where it
is a member of a group, that of its group) is less than 15%.

270.3

Chapter 3  of  this Part  makes provision, principally by applying (with
modifications) provisions in  Part 3 , for determining—

270.3.a

the effective tax rate of a qualifying entity by reference—

270.3.a.i

in the case of an entity that is a member of a group, to the profits of, and
the taxes payable by, members of the group that are located in the United
Kingdom, or

270.3.a.ii

in the case of an entity that is not a member of a group, to its profits and
to the taxes payable by that entity.

270.3.b

those profits,

270.3.c

which taxes (referred to as “ covered taxes ”) are to be considered in the
determining effective tax rates,

270.3.d

top-up amounts, and

270.3.e

additional top-up amounts.

##### Election to make one member of a group liable for amounts charged

271

271.1

Where multiple members of a group are chargeable to domestic top-up tax in an
accounting period, the filing member of the group may elect that only one
member of the group specified in the election (the “ elected   member”) is to
be liable to pay domestic top-up tax in that period.

271.2

Where an election under this section is made—

271.2.a

no member of the group other than the   elected   member is required to pay
any amount by way of domestic top-up tax, and

271.2.b

the   elected   member must pay any amount by way of domestic top-up tax any
other member of the group would have been required to pay if the election had
not been made.

271.3

Subsection  (2)  does not apply if the   elected   member has not consented to
the election.

271.4

Paragraph  2  of  Schedule 15  (annual elections) applies to an election under
this section, and has effect for that purpose as if references to an
information return or overseas return notification were to a self-assessment
return or below-threshold notification.

#### Application of multinational top-up tax provisions

##### Determining top-up amounts of entity that is a member of a group

272

272.1

Subject as follows,  Chapters 3  to  6 ,  8  and  9  of  Part 3  apply for the
purposes (“domestic purposes”) of determining whether a qualifying entity that
is a member of a group has top-up amounts or additional top-up amounts, and
the extent of those amounts, as they apply for the purpose of determining the
same for the purposes of multinational top-up tax.

272.2

Where the group is not a multinational group, that Part has effect for
domestic purposes as if any reference to a multinational group were to a
group.

272.3

Part 3  has effect for those purposes as if the following provisions (which
provide for reductions of top-up amounts where a qualifying domestic top-up
tax is payable) were omitted—

272.3.a

in  section 194 , subsections  (2)  to  (7) ;

272.3.b

in  section 203 , subsections  (3)  to  (7) ;

272.3.c

in  section 206 , subsections  (4)  to  (8) .

272.4

The following provisions of  Part 3  are of no practical application for
domestic purposes and accordingly that Part has effect for those purposes as
if they were omitted—

272.4.a

section 173 (1) (b)  and sections  189  to  192  (eligible distribution tax
systems);

272.4.b

section 225  (attribution of top-up amounts of investment entities).

272.5

Where—

272.5.a

an election is made under  Part 3  in relation to a member of a multinational
group (whether or not a qualifying entity) for the purposes of multinational
top-up tax, and

272.5.b

if the election had effect for domestic purposes, it would affect the
calculation of top-up amounts or additional top-up amounts,

that election has effect for domestic purposes.

272.6

For the purposes of subsection  (5) , a foreign IIR election is to be treated
as an election made under  Part 3 .

272.7

A “ foreign IIR election ” means an election—

272.7.a

made in respect of a group in connection with a tax equivalent to
multinational top-up tax in another Pillar Two territory;

272.7.b

contained in an information return—

272.7.b.i

submitted to a qualifying authority in that territory, and

272.7.b.ii

in relation to which information in the return about the election has been
shared with HMRC.

272.8

For domestic purposes—

272.8.a

section 134  (underlying profits as determined for statements of ultimate
parent) has effect as if, after subsection  (3) , there were inserted—

272.8.a.3A

The conditions in subsection  (3)  are not required to be met if—

272.8.a.3A.a

the alternative accounting standard is UK GAAP,

272.8.a.3A.b

all members of the group are located in the United Kingdom, and

272.8.a.3A.c

the filing member of the group has made an election in a self-assessment
return that the underlying profits of all members of the group are to be
determined on the basis of UK GAAP.

272.8.a.3B

Paragraph  1  of  Schedule 15  (long term elections) applies to an election
under subsection  (3A) , and has effect for that purpose as if references to
an information return or overseas return notification were to a self-
assessment return or below-threshold notification.

;

272.8.b

section 176  (amounts to be reflected in covered tax balance) has effect as
if, for subsection  (2) (i)  (amounts allocated from another member of the
group), there were substituted—

272.8.b.i

any amount allocated to the member from another member of the group under
section  178 (1)  (reallocation of tax expense).

;

272.8.c

section 178  (reallocation of tax expense) has effect as if—

272.8.c.i

  for subsection (1A) there were substituted —

272.8.c.i.1A

But qualifying tax expense in respect of tax imposed by a territory other than
the United Kingdom is not to be allocated to O as a result of the allocation
of profits under section 167 (hybrids).

;

272.8.c.ii

subsection  (2)  (restriction on allocation of tax expense in respect of
mobile income) were omitted;

272.8.d

section 179  (controlled foreign companies) has effect as if subsection  (2)
(restriction on allocation to CFC) were omitted;

272.8.da

in section 182(2)(e), after “credits”, in the first place it occurs, there
were inserted  “other than qualifying refundable tax credits” ;

272.8.e

section 193  (calculation of top-up amounts) has effect   in relation to a
qualifying entity that is a standard member of a group  as if the total top-up
amount referred to in that section included any top-up amounts or additional
top-up amounts of   qualifying  investment entities determined under sections
220  to  224 .

272.9

An investment entity is a qualifying investment entity in relation to a
qualifying entity if it is

272.9.a

a member of the same group as the qualifying entity, and

272.9.b

located in United Kingdom.

272.10

Subsection (11) applies to qualifying entities that are standard members of a
group for an accounting period where—

272.10.a

the total top-up amount referred to in section 193 for that period is greater
than nil as a result of the modification of that section set out in subsection
(8)(e), and

272.10.b

none of those members have made a profit for that period (and accordingly will
not, ignoring subsection (11), have top-up amounts).

272.11

Where this subsection applies, each of those members has a top-up amount (for
the purposes of domestic top-up tax) equal to the total top-up amount divided
by the number of qualifying entities that are standard members of the group.

##### Treatment of covered bond vehicles

272A

272A.1

This section applies where—

272A.1.a

a covered bond vehicle that is a member of a group would, ignoring this
section, have a top-up amount or an additional top-up amount for an accounting
period, and

272A.1.b

at least one of the other members of the group in that period—

272A.1.b.i

is located in the United Kingdom, and

272A.1.b.ii

is not a covered bond vehicle.

272A.2

For domestic purposes, section 193 (calculation of top-up amounts) has effect
for the purpose of determining the top-up amounts (and additional top-up
amounts) of—

272A.2.a

the covered bond vehicle, and

272A.2.b

the other members of the group that are located in the United Kingdom,

as if the adjusted profits of the covered bond vehicle were nil.

272A.3

But subsection (4) applies if none of the members of the group that are
located in the United Kingdom, and are not covered bond vehicles, have made a
profit for that period (and accordingly will not, ignoring that subsection,
have top-up amounts).

272A.4

Each of those members has a top-up amount equal to the amount given by
dividing—

272A.4.a

the sum of the top-up amounts and additional top-up amounts that, ignoring
subsection (2), each covered bond vehicle located in the United Kingdom would
otherwise have, by

272A.4.b

the number of those members.

272A.5

For the purposes of this section “ covered bond vehicle ” has the meaning
given by paragraph 53(7) of Schedule 19 to FA 2011.

##### Determining top-up amounts of entity that is not a member of a group

273

273.1

Chapters 3  to  6 ,  8  and  9  of  Part 3  apply for the purposes (“domestic
entity purposes”) of determining whether a qualifying entity that is not a
member of a group has top-up amounts or additional top-up amounts, and the
extent of those amounts, as they apply for the purpose of determining the same
for the purposes of multinational top-up tax.

273.2

Chapter 3 of that Part has effect for domestic entity purposes as if for
section 132  there were substituted—

########### Effective tax rate

273.2.132

The effective tax rate of a qualifying entity that is not a member of a group
is determined as follows—

Step 1 Determine, in accordance with Chapter 4 of  Part 3 , the adjusted
profits for that period of that member. Step 2 If, on determining those
adjusted profits, the member has not made a profit, the effective tax rate is
to be treated as 15%. Otherwise, proceed to Step 3. Step 3 Determine the
covered tax balance of the member for the period (which may be negative) in
accordance with Chapter 5 of Part 3. Step 4 If that balance is nil the
effective tax rate is 0%. Otherwise, proceed to Step 5. Step 5 Divide the
covered tax balance by the adjusted profits. Step 6 Except where Step 2 or 4
applies, the effective tax rate of the entity is X%, where X (which will be
negative if the covered tax balance is negative) is the result of Step 5
multiplied by 100.

273.3

That Part has effect for domestic entity purposes as if—

273.3.a

references to “ member of a multinational group ” (however framed and
including references to multiple members) were to “qualifying entity”;

273.3.b

any reference (however framed) to the consolidated financial statements of the
ultimate parent were to the qualifying financial statements of the entity;

273.3.ba

in section 182(2)(e), after “credits”, in the first place it occurs, there
were inserted  “other than qualifying refundable tax credits” ;

273.3.c

in  section 194  (total top-up amount), subsections  (2)  to  (7)  were
omitted;

273.3.d

in  section 203  (additional top-up amounts: covered taxes less than
expected), subsections  (3)  to  (7)  were omitted;

273.3.e

in  section 206  (additional top-up amounts: recalculations), subsections  (4)
to  (8)  were omitted.

273.4

Part 3  has effect for those purposes as if the following provisions (which
are only relevant to groups or have no relevance for domestic   entity
purposes) were omitted—

273.4.a

in  section 134  (underlying profits as determined for statements of ultimate
parent), subsections  (2)  to  (9) ;

273.4.b

section 135  (permanent establishments);

273.4.c

section 139  (consolidation adjustments);

273.4.d

section 140  (purchase accounting adjustments);

273.4.e

in  section 141  (general exclusion of dividends),   subsection (3)(c) ;

273.4.f

section 149  (arm’s length requirement);

273.4.g

section 150  (transactions between group members);

273.4.h

section 154  (exclusion of qualifying intra-group financing arrangement
expenses);

273.4.i

sections  159  and  160  (adjustments applicable to permanent establishments);

273.4.j

in  section 163  (election to spread capital gains), subsection  (3) ;

273.4.k

section 164  (election to exclude intra-group transactions);

273.4.l

section 167  (underlying profits of member of group seen as transparent);

273.4.m

in  section 168  (underlying profits of flow-through entities), subsection
(8) ;

273.4.n

section 169  (non-tax resident entities to be treated as flow-through
entities);

273.4.o

section 170  (adjustments for ultimate parent that is flow-through entity);

273.4.p

section  172  (ultimate parent subject to deductible dividend regime);

273.4.pa

in section 173 (covered taxes), subsection (1)(b);

273.4.q

section 177  (allocation of covered taxes: permanent establishments);

273.4.r

section 178  (reallocation of tax expense);

273.4.s

sections 179  and  180  (controlled foreign company tax regimes);

273.4.t

section 181  (distributions from other group members);

273.4.u

section 183  (qualifying foreign tax credits);

273.4.v

sections  189  to  192  (deemed distribution tax election);

273.4.w

sections  208  to  212  (restructuring of groups);

273.4.x

sections  213  to  215  (elections in relation to investment entities);

273.4.y

in  section 216  (election where assets and liabilities adjusted to fair
value), subsection  (6) ;

273.4.z

sections  226  to  229  (joint venture groups, minority owned members and
multi-parent groups).

##### References to Pillar Two rules

273A

273A.1

The provisions mentioned in subsection (2) apply to a qualifying entity, for
domestic or domestic entity purposes, as if the references to the first
accounting period for which the Pillar Two rules apply were to the first
accounting period for which the entity is a qualifying entity.

273A.2

Those provisions are—

273A.2.a

section 185;

273A.2.b

section 187;

273A.2.d

sub-paragraph (4) of paragraph 2 of Schedule 16 (but see also section
276(c)(iii) which omits that paragraph in the case of a qualifying entity that
is not a member of a group).

##### Effect of becoming subject to Pillar Two rules

273B

273B.1

This section applies where the Pillar Two rules did not apply to a qualifying
entity for one or more accounting periods (each a “pre-Pillar Two period”).

273B.2

Where—

273B.2.a

the entity has a recaptured deferred tax liability arising as a result of
section 184 (recaptured deferred tax liabilities),

273B.2.b

the initial period, in relation to that liability, is a pre-Pillar Two period,
and

273B.2.c

the first accounting period in which the Pillar Two rules apply to the entity
is earlier than the sixth accounting period after the initial period,

section 184(2) (recalculation in initial period taking account of recaptured
deferred tax liability) does not apply in relation to that recaptured deferred
tax liability.

273B.3

Where an election under section 187 (election for losses to be treated as
special loss deferred tax assets) applied to the entity in a pre-Pillar Two
period—

273B.3.a

the election ceases to have effect for the first accounting period in which
the Pillar Two rules apply, and

273B.3.b

subsection (2)(b) of section 187 does not apply to prevent the making of an
election under section 187 that applies to the entity and that has effect for
that period, but

273B.3.c

no remaining amount of special loss deferred tax assets that arose in a pre-
Pillar Two period may be used in that first accounting period or any
subsequent accounting period.

273B.4

Subsection (5) or (6) (as the case may be) applies where—

273B.4.a

a deferred tax asset arises to the entity in a pre-Pillar Two period,

273B.4.b

section 185(7)—

273B.4.b.i

applies to that asset for the purposes of multinational top-up tax, or

273B.4.b.ii

would, ignoring subsection (5) below, apply to that asset for those purposes,
and

273B.4.c

the asset is reflected in a collective additional amount for the purposes of
domestic top-up tax.

273B.5

Where—

273B.5.a

an election has been made under section 205 (election to carry forward) in
relation to the collective additional amount,

273B.5.b

the subtraction required by subsection (2)(a) of that section has not occurred
in a pre-Pillar Two period,

the amount to be subtracted as a result of that subsection is to be reduced by
so much of that amount as reflects the asset.

273B.6

Otherwise, section 185(7) does not apply to the asset for the purposes of
multinational top-up tax to the extent it was reflected in a collective
additional amount for the purposes domestic top-up tax.

##### Dividends from protected cell companies

273C

273C.1

This section applies to a dividend or other distribution made by a protected
cell company that is received or accrued by—

273C.1.a

a qualifying entity that is not a member of a group, or

273C.1.b

a member of a group that has no members located outside of the United Kingdom.

273C.2

A dividend or other distribution to which this section applies is to be
treated as an excluded dividend (see section 141) for domestic purposes and
domestic entity purposes.

##### Application of 

274

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### Application of 

275

Schedule 18 —

275.a

applies  Schedule 14  for the purpose of the administration of domestic top-up
tax;

275.b

makes related amendments.

##### Application of transitional provision

276

The transitional provision in  Schedule 16  applies in relation to domestic
top-up tax as it applies in relation to multinational top-up tax as if—

276.a

references in that Schedule to a multinational group were to a group;

276.aa

where a qualifying member is a member of a group, for paragraph 3(2)(c) there
were substituted—

276.aa.c

the election has been made in respect of the territory for each preceding
accounting period that commenced on or after 31 December 2023—

276.aa.c.i

in which the Pillar Two rules would, ignoring any transitional safe harbour
election, have applied to any member of the group in the territory, and

276.aa.c.ii

in which any member of the group is a qualifying entity for the purposes of
domestic top-up tax,

,

276.b

where a qualifying entity is a member of a group and all members of the group
are located in the United Kingdom, the following provisions of that Schedule
(which have no relevance in such a case) were omitted—

276.b.i

paragraph  3 (2) (b)  and  (d) , and  3 (7)    to (9)   (country-by-country
reporting);

276.b.ii

the words “that are used for preparation of the group’s country-by-country
report” in paragraph  4 (2) ;

276.b.iii

paragraph  4 (5)  (use of statements used for preparation of country-by-
country report);

276.b.iv

in  paragraph 9 (2) , the words from “ignoring” to the end.

276.c

where a qualifying entity is not a member of a group—

276.c.i

references in that Schedule to a member of a group (however framed and
including references to multiple members) were to a qualifying entity;

276.c.ii

references in that Schedule (however framed) to the consolidated financial
statements of the ultimate parent were to the qualifying financial statements
of the entity;

276.c.iii

paragraph 2  were omitted;

276.c.iiia

for paragraph 3(2)(c) there were substituted—

276.c.iiia.c

the election has been made in respect of the territory for each preceding
accounting period that commenced on or after 31 December 2023 in which the
member was a qualifying entity for the purposes of domestic top-up tax,

,

276.c.iv

the provisions mentioned in  paragraph (b) (i)  to  (iv)  were omitted.

##### Index of defined expressions

277

See the table in  Schedule 17  for a list of terms defined for Part  3 , but
which also contains some terms defined for this Part, and the provisions that
define or explain them.

##### Domestic top-up tax to apply from 31 December 2023

278

This Part has effect in relation to accounting periods commencing on or after
31 December 2023.

### Electricity generator levy

#### Introduction and charge

##### Charge on exceptional generation receipts

279

279.1

If a qualifying generating undertaking has exceptional generation receipts for
a qualifying period, that undertaking is liable to pay a charge equal to 45%
of those exceptional receipts.

279.2

The charge is referred to in  this Part  as the “electricity generator levy”.

279.3

A generating undertaking is “qualifying” in a qualifying period if generation
attributed to it under  this Part  (see  section 282 , but also  sections 294
to  297 ) for that period exceeds the levy threshold.

279.4

The levy threshold for a qualifying period is—

279.4.a

where the period is a year, 50,000 megawatt hours, or

279.4.b

where the period is shorter than a year, that number of megawatt hours
multiplied by the amount given by dividing the number of days in the period by
365.

279.5

To determine if a generating undertaking has exceptional generation receipts
for a qualifying period and (if so) the amount of those receipts, take the
following steps—

      Step 1 (attribute generation receipts)
Determine the amount of generation receipts to be attributed to the
undertaking for the period in accordance with  section 283 .
Step 2 (determine the maximum amount of receipts that would not be
exceptional)                                 Multiply the amount of
electricity generation (expressed in megawatt hours) attributed to the
undertaking for the period (see  section 282 ) by the benchmark amount (see
section 281 ).
Step 3 (determine whether undertaking has receipts that exceed that amount)
Subtract the result of Step 2 from the amount determined under Step 1.
If the result of this Step is nil or less, the undertaking does not have any
exceptional generation receipts (otherwise, carry on to Step 4).
Step 4 (subtract allowable costs)                                 Determine
the amount of allowable costs (if any) to be attributed to the undertaking for
the period (see  section 284 ) and subtract that amount from the result of
Step 3.                                       If the result of this Step is
nil or less, the undertaking does not have any exceptional generation receipts
(otherwise, carry on to Step 5).
Step 5 (apply revenue allowance)                                 Subtract the
revenue allowance for the period from the result of Step 4.
Step 6 (result of Step 5 is amount of exceptional generation receipts unless
negative)                                 If the result of Step 5 is nil or
less, the undertaking does not have any exceptional generation receipts.
Otherwise, the amount of exceptional generation receipts the undertaking has
for the period is the result of Step 5.

279.6

For the purposes of Step 5, the revenue allowance for a generating undertaking
for a qualifying period is—

279.6.a

where the period is a year, £10 million, or

279.6.b

where the period is shorter than a year, £10 million multiplied by the amount
given by dividing the number of days in the period by 365.

279.7

Other provisions in  this Part  may affect the determination of exceptional
generation receipts, including—

279.7.a

section 293 , which contains provision attributing amounts from a joint
venture to its participants,

279.7.b

sections 294  and  295 , which contain provision that attributes generation to
participants in a joint venture in certain circumstances,

279.7.c

sections 296  and  297 , which contain provision that attributes generation to
significant minority shareholders in a generating undertaking in certain
circumstances, and

279.7.d

section 308 , which contains anti-avoidance provision.

##### Key concepts (generating undertaking etc)

280

280.1

In  this Part —

“ company ” has the meaning it has in the Corporation Tax Acts (see section
1121 of CTA 2010); “ generating undertaking ” means— a company, other than a
company that is a member of a group, that operates a relevant generating
station, or a group of companies that includes at least one member who
operates a relevant generating station; a generating station is “ relevant ”—
if it generates electricity at a relevant place and is not a generating
station that mainly generates electricity— as a result of the burning of oil,
coal or natural gas, or as a result of the use of plant driven by water, where
the power is mainly a result of the hydrostatic head of the water having been
increased by pumping,  ... to the extent that it is not subject to— a contract
for difference within the meaning of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the Energy Act
2013 (contracts for difference), an investment contract within the meaning of
Schedule 2 to that Act (investment contracts), a revenue collection contract
within the meaning of Part 2 of the Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022
(revenue collection contracts), or feed-in tariff export payments  , and  to
the extent it is not comprised of qualifying new generating plant (see section
311A);   “ relevant place ” means a place in— the United Kingdom, the
territorial sea of the United Kingdom, or a Renewable Energy Zone within the
meaning of Part 2 of the Energy Act 2004 (see section 84(4) of that Act); a
generating station is “ subject ”— to a contract for difference or an
investment contract to the extent that its output may give rise to payments
under such an instrument, and to feed-in tariff export payments to the extent
its output gives rise to such payments, and to a revenue collection contract
if the station is the subject of such a contract.

280.2

References in  this Part  to a “ qualifying period ” in relation to a
generating undertaking means—

280.2.a

the period, if any, between the beginning of 1 January 2023 and the
commencement of the first accounting period of the undertaking that commences
on or after 1 January 2023,

280.2.b

the first accounting period of the undertaking commencing on or after 1
January 2023,

280.2.c

every subsequent accounting period of the undertaking that ends on or before
31 March 2028, and

280.2.d

the period, if any, between the end of the last accounting period ending on or
before 31 March 2028 and the end of 31 March 2028.

280.3

References in  this Part  to an “accounting period” are—

280.3.a

in relation to a company within the charge to corporation tax, to an
accounting period for the purposes of that tax, or

280.3.b

in relation to a company not within the charge to corporation tax, to a period
that would be an accounting period for the purposes of that tax were the
company within the charge to that tax and had first come within it on 1
January 2023.

See also  section 288 , which provides that the accounting period of a
generating undertaking that is a group is the accounting period of its lead
member.

##### Benchmark amount

281

281.1

The benchmark amount for the financial years ending in 2023 and 2024 is £75.

281.2

The benchmark amount for each subsequent financial year is the benchmark
amount for the previous financial year—

281.2.a

increased or decreased by the same percentage as the consumer prices index for
the December before the start of that subsequent financial year has increased
or decreased from that index for the previous December, and

281.2.b

rounded up to the nearest whole penny.

281.3

Before the commencement of each of the financial years ending in 2025 to 2028,
His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (referred to elsewhere in this Part as
“HMRC”) must publish the benchmark amount for that financial year in such
manner as they consider appropriate.

281.4

Subsections (5)  to  (7)  apply where 2 financial years fall within a
qualifying period.

281.5

Generation attributed to a generating undertaking for that period is to be
allocated, on a fair and reasonable basis, between those financial years.

281.6

The calculation in Step 2 of  section 279 (5)  is to be applied separately to
the generation allocated to each of those financial years by reference to the
benchmark amount for that year.

281.7

Accordingly, the result of that Step is to be the sum of those calculations.

281.8

In  this section —

                                    “ consumer prices index ” means the all
items consumer prices index published by the Statistics Board;
“ financial year ” means a period of twelve months ending with 31st March.

#### Calculation of exceptional generation receipts

##### Attribution of generation

282

282.1

The following amounts of generation, expressed in megawatt hours, are to be
attributed to a generating undertaking for a qualifying period—

282.1.a

any grid connected electricity generation of a relevant generating station of
the undertaking for the period, and

282.1.b

the amount given by multiplying—

282.1.b.i

the amount (if any) of grid connected electricity generation for the period of
a relevant generating station that is operated by a qualifying partnership in
relation to the undertaking (see  section 291 ), by

282.1.b.ii

the qualifying proportion for that period (see that section).

282.2

For the purposes of  this Part , a generating station is a generating station
of a generating undertaking if—

282.2.a

in the case of an undertaking that is a company, it is operated by that
company otherwise than in partnership with another person, and

282.2.b

in the case of an undertaking that is a group, it is operated by any member of
that group—

282.2.b.i

including where the station is operated in partnership and all of the partners
are members of the group, but

282.2.b.ii

not including where the station is operated in partnership and one or more of
the partners are not members of the group.

282.3

“Grid connected electricity generation” of a relevant generating station for a
qualifying period means—

282.3.a

electricity generated by the station in that period for the purpose of giving
a supply to any premises or enabling a supply to be so given where that supply
would involve the use of a licensed distribution system or a licensed
transmission system, and

282.3.b

electricity that was, at any time, expected to be (but was not) generated by
the station in that period for that purpose.

282.4

But for the purposes only of—

282.4.a

section 279 (3)  (application of levy threshold), and

282.4.b

Step 2 in  section 279 (5)  (determination of maximum amount of receipts that
would not be exceptional),

ignore any electricity that was expected to be, but was not, generated by a
relevant generating station unless the electricity was not generated in
connection with an accepted bid to decrease generation under a settlement
code.

##### Generation receipts

283

283.1

Where generation is attributed to a generating undertaking under  section 282
(1)  for a qualifying period, generation receipts in respect of that
generation are to be attributed to that undertaking for that period.

283.2

In  this Part  “ generation receipts ” means amounts that it is fair and
reasonable to attribute to generation attributed under  section 282 (1)
(whether or not they are received by, or otherwise arise to the operator of
the station) on the basis that the amounts reflect, directly or indirectly,
the amount realised (or to be realised) for the wholesale purchase of
electricity arising from that generation (whether or not the electricity is
actually generated).

283.3

In determining the amounts realised (or to be realised) for the wholesale
purchase of electricity the following are, amongst other things, to be taken
into account—

283.3.a

amounts received in accordance with a settlement code in connection with
accepted offers to increase generation (but not amounts in connection with
accepted bids to decrease generation);

283.3.b

imbalance charges under such a code;

283.3.c

payments and receipts under arrangements whose principal purpose is to act as
a hedge of the exposure to changes in the price of electricity where those
arrangements relate to generation attributed under  section 282 (1) .

283.4

The arrangements referred to in  subsection (3) (c)  may include arrangements
comprising, or that include the use of, options, futures and contracts for
difference (within the meaning of Part 7 of CTA 2009).

283.5

The Treasury may by regulations make provision about when amounts can (and
cannot) be fairly and reasonably attributed to generation under  subsection
(2) .

283.6

Regulations may also provide that—

283.6.a

amounts of a specified description are always to be treated as generation
receipts;

283.6.b

amounts of a specified description are never to be treated as generation
receipts.

“ Specified ” means specified in the regulations.

283.7

Subsection (8)  applies to generation attributed to a generating undertaking
under  section 282 (1)  if—

283.7.a

provision, within the meaning of Part 4 of TIOPA 2010, has been made or
imposed as between two persons by means of a transaction or series of
transactions,

283.7.b

that provision relates to that generation,

283.7.c

if instead of that provision the arm's length provision had been made or
imposed, one of those persons would have an amount that it is fair and
reasonable to attribute the generating undertaking in accordance with
subsection (2) , and

283.7.d

were that person within the charge to corporation tax, their profits and
losses would be calculated (as a result of Part 4 of TIOPA 2010) as if the
arm's length provision had been made or imposed instead of the provision
actually made or imposed.

283.8

Where  this subsection  applies to generation attributed to a generating
undertaking, generation receipts in respect of it are to be determined as if
the arm's length provision had been made or imposed instead of the provision
actually made or imposed.

283.9

In  this Part  “the arm's length provision” has the meaning it has in Part 4
of TIOPA 2010.

##### Allowable costs

284

284.1

“ Allowable costs ” means—

284.1.a

exceptional generation fuel costs of relevant generating stations (see
section 285 ),

284.1.b

exceptional revenue sharing costs in respect of relevant generating stations
(see  section 286 ), and

284.1.c

qualifying electricity purchase costs (see  subsection (6) ).

284.2

Allowable costs may only be attributed to a generating undertaking for a
qualifying period to the extent—

284.2.a

those costs are fairly and reasonably attributable to generation receipts
attributed to the undertaking for the period,

284.2.b

they reflect expenses of the undertaking (or, in the case of an undertaking
that is a group, of one or more of its members), and

284.2.c

those costs are not already reflected in the determination of the amounts of
those receipts.

284.3

Allowable costs are only to be attributed to a generating undertaking if a
claim is made for those allowable costs in a company tax return.

In  this Part  “ company tax return ” has the same meaning as in Schedule 18
to FA 1998 (see paragraph 3(1) of that Schedule).

284.4

Subsection (5)  applies to allowable costs of a person (“the cost holder”) to
be attributed to a generating undertaking if—

284.4.a

the costs arise as a result of provision made or imposed as between the cost
holder and another person by means of a transaction or series of transactions,
and

284.4.b

were the cost holder within the charge to corporation tax, the cost holder’s
profits and losses would be calculated (as a result of Part 4 of TIOPA 2010)
as if the arm's length provision had been made or imposed instead of the
provision actually made or imposed.

284.5

Where  this subsection  applies to allowable costs, the amount of those costs
is to be determined as if that arm's length provision had been made or imposed
instead of the provision it arose as a result of.

284.6

In  this section  “ qualifying electricity purchase costs ” means costs
reasonably incurred in the purchase of electricity in order to comply with the
terms of an agreement under which it was expected that a relevant generating
station will generate but does not do so.

##### Exceptional generation fuel costs

285

285.1

For the purposes of a claim for allowable costs by a generating undertaking,
the amount (if any) of “exceptional generation fuel costs” of a relevant
generating station for a qualifying period is to be determined as follows—

      Step 1                                 Determine the generation fuel
costs for the station for that period.
Step 2                                 Divide the amount of those costs by the
amount of electricity generated by the station in that period (expressed in
megawatt hours) that are attributable to a generating undertaking.
Step 3                                 Determine the baseline fuel cost of the
station.                                                              Step 4
If the result of Step 2 is the same as or less than the baseline fuel cost,
there are no exceptional generation fuel costs of the station for that period.
Step 5                                 If the result of Step 2 is greater than
the baseline fuel cost, subtract the baseline fuel cost from the result of
Step 2.                                                              Step 6
Multiply the amount of electricity generated by the station that is
attributable to a generating undertaking in that period by the result of Step
5 to give the amount of exceptional generation fuel costs of the station for
that period.

285.2

The “generation fuel costs” of a relevant generating station for a period
means costs which, on a fair and reasonable basis, can be directly attributed
to the acquisition of fuel used for generating electricity in that period
(which may include the costs of transporting such fuel) that is attributable
to a generating undertaking.

285.3

The baseline fuel cost of a relevant generating station is the lesser of—

285.3.a

the average generation fuel costs of the station per megawatt hour for the
reference period specified in the claim for allowable costs, determined on a
fair and reasonable basis (and which cannot be less than nil), and

285.3.b

£65 per megawatt hour.

285.4

Subject to  subsection (5) , the reference period that may be specified in the
claim must—

285.4.a

be a period of at least 12 months in which there is a period of 3 months where
the generating station was generating on 50% or more of the days in that 3
month period,

285.4.b

commence no earlier than 1 January 2017, and

285.4.c

end no later than 1 March 2020.

285.5

Where a reference period cannot be specified in the claim in accordance with
subsection (4)  because there is no period of at least 12 months between 1
January 2017 and 1 March 2020 in which there is a period of 3 months where the
generating station was generating on 50% or more of the days in that 3 month
period—

285.5.a

a period of 12 months commencing no earlier than 1 January 2017 and ending no
later than 1 March 2020 may be specified as the reference period,

285.5.b

the average generation fuel costs of the station for the purposes of
subsection (3) (a)  is to be determined as a fair and reasonable estimate of
what those costs would have been—

285.5.b.i

had the generating station been generating in that period, and

285.5.b.ii

had it been generating on a similar basis in that period as it had been
generating in the period of 12 months ending with the end of the qualifying
period to which the claim relates.

285.6

Where a generating station uses more than one type of fuel, a generating
undertaking making a claim for allowable costs in respect of the exceptional
fuel costs of that station may calculate the exceptional generation fuel costs
in relation to each type of fuel separately, and may specify different
reference periods for those calculations.

285.7

Where a generating undertaking makes a claim for allowable costs in respect of
exceptional generation fuel costs of two or more generating stations that use
the same type of fuel, the same reference period must be specified in relation
to the calculation of exceptional generation costs in relation to fuel of the
same type.

##### Exceptional revenue sharing costs

286

286.1

Subsection (2)  applies for the purposes of determining the amount of
allowable costs that may be claimed by a generating undertaking in respect of
exceptional revenue sharing costs.

286.2

Take the following steps to determine the amount (if any) that can be claimed
for a qualifying period—

      Step 1                                 Determine if there are any
relevant generating stations whose generation has been attributed to the
undertaking in relation to which there are qualifying arrangements under which
payments are made to a third party in relation to the undertaking by reference
to—                                       the price received for generation by
that station, or           the wholesale price of electricity.
Step 2                                 Determine the amounts paid, in respect
of each of those arrangements.
Step 3                                 In relation to each such payment,
determine the amount that would have been paid if the price received for
generation by the station in question and the wholesale price of electricity
had been the benchmark amount and subtract that amount from the amount
actually paid.
Step 4                                 Add together the results of Step 3.
If the result of Step 3 is nil or less the generating undertaking, no amount
can be claimed.                                       If the result of Step 3
is more than nil, that amount can be claimed (to the extent it is fairly and
reasonably attributable to generation receipts attributed to the undertaking).

286.3

For the purposes of  subsection (2) , arrangements are “qualifying” if they
are arrangements under which fuel for generating electricity is acquired and
the requirement to make payments under the arrangements relates to that
acquisition.

286.4

Where the arrangements provide for some or all of the cost of paying the levy
to be passed to the third party (whether by way of reduction of payments or
otherwise) no amount of allowable costs in relation to the arrangements may be
claimed unless  subsection (6)  applies.

286.5

Subsection (6)  applies where the arrangements provide for a fixed proportion
of the cost of paying the levy to be passed to the third party.

286.6

Where this subsection applies, the proportion of the amount calculated under
subsection (2)  that is equal to the proportion of the costs of paying the
levy that are not passed to the third party may be claimed.

286.7

In  this section —

                                    “ third party ”, in relation to a
generating undertaking, means a person that is not a significant equity holder
in—
where the undertaking is not a group, the undertaking, or
where the undertaking is a group, any member of the group;
a person (“ P ”), other than a member of a group of companies, is a “
significant equity holder ” in a company (“ C ”) if—
P is beneficially entitled to 20% or more of any profits available for
distribution to equity holders of C,
P would be beneficially entitled to 20% or more of any assets of C available
for distribution to its equity holders on a winding-up, or
at least 20% of C‘s ordinary share capital is owned directly or indirectly by
P;
a member of a group of companies is a “significant equity holder” in a company
(“ C ”) if—
members of the group between them are beneficially entitled to 20% or more of
any profits available for distribution to equity holders of C,
members of the group between them would be beneficially entitled to 20% or
more of any assets of C available for distribution to its equity holders on a
winding-up, or
at least 20% of C‘s ordinary share capital is owned directly or indirectly by
members of the group.

#### Groups, partnerships and joint ventures

##### Groups

287

287.1

For the purposes of  this Part , the following form a “group”—

287.1.a

a company that is not a 75% subsidiary of any other company, and

287.1.b

every company that is a 75% subsidiary—

287.1.b.i

of that company,

287.1.b.ii

of a 75% subsidiary of that company, or

287.1.b.iii

of a 75% subsidiary of a 75% subsidiary of that company, and so on.

287.2

The company in a group that is not a 75% subsidiary of any other company is
the “principal member” of the group.

287.3

Every other member of the group is a “subsidiary member”.

287.4

A company (“ B ”) is a “75% subsidiary” of another company (“ A ”) if—

287.4.a

A is beneficially entitled to 75% or more of any profits available for
distribution to equity holders of B,

287.4.b

A would be beneficially entitled to 75% or more of any assets of B available
for distribution to its equity holders on a winding-up, or

287.4.c

at least 75% of B’s ordinary share capital is owned directly or indirectly by
A.

287.5

Where as a result of the application of each of  paragraphs (a)  to  (c)  of
subsection (4)  a company would (ignoring this paragraph) be a member of more
than one group, that company is to be treated as only being a 75% subsidiary
of the first company it is a subsidiary of applying the rules in those
paragraphs in order (starting with  paragraph (a) ).

287.6

If at any time a company that is a generating undertaking becomes a member of
a group that is a generating undertaking (including a group that becomes a
generating undertaking as a result of that company becoming a member), the
final qualifying period of the company ends at that time.

287.7

If at any time a group ceases to be a group as a result of the principal
member becoming a 75% subsidiary of another group, the final qualifying period
of the group ends at that time.

##### Lead member of a group and its qualifying periods

288

288.1

For the purposes of  section 280 (2)  (meaning of qualifying period), the
reference to an accounting period of a generating undertaking that is a group
means an accounting period of its lead member.

288.2

Take the following steps in order to identify the lead member of the group
(stopping at the first step under which a member of the group is identified as
the lead member)—

      Step 1                                 If there is a member of the group
that—                                       is within the charge to
corporation tax, and           is nominated for the purposes of  this section
,         that member is the lead member of the group.
Step 2                                 If the principal member of the group is
within the charge to corporation tax, it is the lead member of the group.
Step 3                                 If—
there is a member of the group that—         is within the charge to
corporation tax, and           has no 75% parent within the charge to
corporation tax, and                 there is no other member of the group
falling within paragraph (a),         that member is the lead member of the
group.                                                              Step 4
If there is more than one member falling within paragraph (a) of Step 3, the
lead member is the member falling within that paragraph to which the greatest
amount of generation would be attributed under  section 282 (1)  in the period
of 12 months ending with the later of 31 December 2022 and the beginning of
the first qualifying period in which the group is a qualifying generating
undertaking if—                                       each such member were a
generating undertaking, and           that period of 12 months were a
qualifying period.
Step 5                                 If none of the preceding steps
identifies a lead member, the principal member of the group (who will not be
within the charge to corporation tax) is the lead member of the group.

288.3

For the purposes of  subsection (2) , a company (“ P ”) is a 75% parent of
another company if that other company is a 75% subsidiary—

288.3.a

of P,

288.3.b

of a 75% subsidiary of P, or

288.3.c

of a 75% subsidiary of a 75% subsidiary of P, and so on.

288.4

A nomination of a member of a group as the lead member of the group—

288.4.a

is to be made by the member of the group that, ignoring Step 1 in  subsection
(2) , would be the lead member of the group (“the nominating member”),

288.4.b

must be made by notice to HMRC,

288.4.c

must specify when it takes effect, which must be no earlier than the
commencement of the qualifying period in which it is made, and

288.4.d

has effect until—

288.4.d.i

a further nomination takes effect,

288.4.d.ii

it is revoked, or

288.4.d.iii

the nominated member leaves the group.

288.5

The revocation of a nomination of a member of a group as the lead member—

288.5.a

is to be made by the member of the group that, ignoring Step 1 in  subsection
(2) , would be the lead member of the group,

288.5.b

must be made by notice to HMRC, and

288.5.c

must specify when it takes effect, which must be no earlier than the
commencement of the qualifying period in which it is made.

288.6

Where a company becomes lead member of a group during a qualifying period, and
that period is not the same as an accounting period of the new lead member—

288.6.a

the qualifying period ends, and

288.6.b

a qualifying period commences that ends with the end of the current accounting
period of the new lead member.

##### Liability of members of groups

289

Where a generating undertaking that is a group is liable to an amount of
electricity generator levy—

289.a

the lead member is liable to pay that amount, and

289.b

every other member is jointly and severally liable for that amount.

##### Election for members with significant minority shareholding to pay levy

290

290.1

This section  applies where—

290.1.a

a generating undertaking that is a group is liable to an amount of electricity
generator levy for a qualifying period,

290.1.b

a subsidiary member of that group (“the relevant member”) has, at any time in
that period, at least one significant minority shareholder,

290.1.c

some, or all, of that amount is attributable, on a fair and reasonable basis,
to the activities of the relevant member and, if it has one or more relevant
subsidiaries, those relevant subsidiaries.

290.2

Where  this section  applies, the lead member of the group may elect that so
much of the amount as is attributable to the activities of the relevant member
and (where it has one or more relevant subsidiaries) its relevant subsidiaries
must be paid by that member.

290.3

But the other members of the group are jointly and severally liable for that
amount.

290.4

An election under  this section  in respect of an amount of electricity
generator levy for a qualifying period must be made no later than 9 months
after the end of that period.

290.5

For the purposes of  this Part —

290.5.a

a person (“ P ”) is a significant minority shareholder in a subsidiary member
of a group (“ S ”) if P is not a member of the group and—

290.5.a.i

P is beneficially entitled to 10% or more of any profits available for
distribution to equity holders of S,

290.5.a.ii

P would be beneficially entitled to 10% or more of any assets of S available
for distribution to its equity holders on a winding-up, or

290.5.a.iii

at least 10% of S‘s ordinary share capital is owned by P, and

290.5.b

a group of companies (other than the group S is a member of) is a significant
minority shareholder in S if—

290.5.b.i

members of the group are, between them, beneficially entitled to 10% or more
of any profits available for distribution to equity holders of S,

290.5.b.ii

members of the group between them would be beneficially entitled to 10% or
more of any assets of S available for distribution to its equity holders on a
winding-up, or

290.5.b.iii

at least 10% of S‘s ordinary share capital is owned by members of the group.

290.6

For the purposes of  this section  and  sections 296  and  297 , a company is
a relevant subsidiary of another company if it is a 75% subsidiary of—

290.6.a

that other company,

290.6.b

a 75% subsidiary of that other company, or

290.6.c

a 75% subsidiary of a 75% subsidiary of that other company, and so on.

##### Qualifying partnerships

291

291.1

A “ qualifying partnership ”, in relation to a generating undertaking, means a
partnership that operates a relevant generating station whose partners
include—

291.1.a

in the case of a generating undertaking that is a company, that company, or

291.1.b

in the case of a generating undertaking that is a group, at least one partner
who is not a member of the group and at least one partner who is a member of
the group.

291.2

For the purposes of  subsection (1)  of  section 282 , the qualifying
proportion for a qualifying period in relation to a generating undertaking
that is a company and a qualifying partnership in relation to that undertaking
is the proportion of the partnership’s profits represented by the
undertaking’s share of those profits.

291.3

For the purposes of that subsection, the qualifying proportion for a
qualifying period in relation to a generating undertaking that is a group and
a qualifying partnership in relation to that undertaking is the proportion of
the partnership’s profits represented by the sum of the shares of those
profits of each partner that is a member of the undertaking.

291.4

Part 17 of CTA 2009 (partnerships) applies for the purposes of  this section
as it applies for the purposes of corporation tax.

##### Qualifying joint ventures

292

292.1

For the purposes of  this Part  a company (“ C ”) is a “qualifying joint
venture” if—

292.1.a

C is not a member of a group other than a group of which it is the principal
member, and

292.1.b

there are five or fewer persons who between them—

292.1.b.i

hold 75% or more of C’s ordinary share capital, or

292.1.b.ii

in a case where C does not have ordinary share capital, are beneficially
entitled to 75% or more of C's profits available for distribution to equity
holders of C.

292.2

In determining whether there are five or fewer such persons as are mentioned
in  subsection (1) (b) , the members of a group are treated as if they were a
single company.

292.3

A company (“ P ”) that is not a member of a group is a participant in a
qualifying joint venture (“ V ”) if—

292.3.a

P holds 10% or more of V’s ordinary share capital, or

292.3.b

in a case where V does not have ordinary share capital, P is beneficially
entitled to 10% or more of V's profits available for distribution to equity
holders of V.

292.4

A group of companies is a participant in a qualifying joint venture (“ V ”)
if—

292.4.a

a member of that group, or two or more members between them, hold 10% or more
of V’s ordinary share capital, or

292.4.b

in a case where V does not have ordinary share capital, a member of the group
is, or two or more members between them are, beneficially entitled to 10% or
more of V's profits available for distribution to equity holders of V.

292.5

Where a participant in a qualifying joint venture is not a generating
undertaking, the participant is to be treated as a generating undertaking for
the purposes of  this Part .

#### Attribution and surrender of amounts: joint ventures and significant minority shareholders

##### Non-chargeable amounts of joint venture to be attributed to participants

293

293.1

Subsection (3)  applies where the result of Step 4 in  section 279 (5)  for a
joint venture undertaking is greater than nil for a qualifying period.

293.2

For the purposes of this Part “ joint venture undertaking ” means a generating
undertaking—

293.2.a

that is a qualifying joint venture, or

293.2.b

that is a group whose principal member is a qualifying joint venture.

293.3

The appropriate proportion of the non-chargeable amount in relation to the
joint venture undertaking is to be added to the result of Step 4 in  section
279 (5)  for each generating undertaking that is a participant in the
qualifying joint venture ( “the JV” ) that comprises, or is the principal
member of, the joint venture undertaking (and where Step 4 would not otherwise
have been reached as a result of the second sentence of Step 3, ignore that
sentence).

293.4

Where the qualifying period of the joint venture undertaking corresponds to a
qualifying period of a participant of the JV, the whole of the appropriate
proportion of the non-chargeable amount is to be added to the result of Step 4
for the participant for that period.

Otherwise, the appropriate proportion is to be apportioned, on a fair and
reasonable basis, between the qualifying periods of the participant in which
the qualifying period of the joint venture undertaking falls.

293.5

The non-chargeable amount for a qualifying period of the joint venture
undertaking is so much of the result of Step 4 in  section 279 (5)  for that
period as is reduced as a result of Step 5 of that section.

293.6

To determine the appropriate proportion of the participants in the JV for a
qualifying period of the joint venture undertaking take the following steps—

      Step 1                                 The generation receipts and
allowable costs attributed to the joint venture undertaking for the period are
to be allocated to the participants in the JV in proportion to the
proportional interest each has in the JV at the time of the generation to
which the receipts or costs relate.
Step 2                                 In respect of each participant,
subtract those allocated allowable costs from those allocated generation
receipts.                                       If the result of this Step is
less than nil for any of the participants, the appropriate proportion for that
participant is nil.
Step 3                                 The appropriate proportion for any
other participant is the amount given by dividing—
the result of Step 2 in respect of that participant, by           the result
of Step 4 in  section 279 (5)  for the joint venture undertaking—
ignoring any amounts added to the result of that Step in accordance with
subsection (3) , and           where the result of Step 2 for one or more of
the participants is less than nil, increased by the sum of those results (each
expressed as a positive number).

293.7

The proportional interest of a participant (“ P ”) in the JV at any time is—

293.7.a

the percentage of the JV’s ordinary share capital held—

293.7.a.i

where P is a generating undertaking which is a company, by P, or

293.7.a.ii

where P is a generating undertaking which is a group, by members of P, or

293.7.b

in a case where the JV does not have ordinary share capital, the percentage of
the JV’s profits available for distribution to equity holders of the JV—

293.7.b.i

where P is a generating undertaking which is a company, to which P is
beneficially entitled, or

293.7.b.ii

where P is a generating undertaking which is a group, to which members of P
are beneficially entitled.

293.8

Where the appropriate proportion of the non-chargeable amount is required to
be added to the result of Step 4 in  section 279 (5)  for a generating
undertaking that is not “ qualifying ” (see  section 279 (3) ) in the
qualifying period in which it is to be added, that undertaking is to be
treated as qualifying for that period.

##### Generation acquired and supplied by JV participants

294

294.1

Subsection (3)  applies to generation if —

294.1.a

the generation is attributed to a joint venture undertaking, other than in
accordance with  this section  or  sections 295  to  297 ,

294.1.b

it is supplied, directly or indirectly, to a generating undertaking (“ Q ”)
that is a participant in the joint venture (“the JV”) that comprises, or is
the principal member of, the joint venture undertaking, and

294.1.c

it is subsequently the subject of a wholesale purchase of electricity from Q.

294.2

Where the generation attributed to the joint venture undertaking is generation
falling within  section 282 (3) (b)  (generation expected to be generated
which was not generated), reference in  subsection (1)  to supply or purchase
is to any supply or purchase that was expected in consequence of that
generation having occurred.

294.3

Where  this subsection  applies to generation—

294.3.a

the generation is to be attributed to Q (as well as to the joint venture
undertaking),

294.3.b

in determining the amount of generation receipts to be attributed to the joint
venture undertaking under  section 283  in respect of that generation, do not
take account of the transaction described in  subsection (1) (c) ,

294.3.c

the generation attributed to Q as a result of  paragraph (a)  is to be
attributed to Q for the qualifying period of Q in which the generation
occurred,

294.3.d

subject to  paragraph (f) , the generation attributed to Q as a result of
paragraph (a)  is to be treated for the purposes of  this Part  as if it had
been attributed under  section 282 (1) ,

294.3.e

in determining the amount of generation receipts to be attributed to Q under
section 283  in respect of generation attributed as a result of  paragraph (a)
, take account of the costs of the transaction under which the generation so
attributed was acquired or was expected to be acquired, and

294.3.f

in determining the exceptional generation receipts of Q for a qualifying
period of Q under  section 279 (5) , any generation attributed to Q for that
period as a result of  paragraph (a)  is to be ignored for the purposes of
Step 2 (which may result in the result of that Step being nil).

294.4

But the amount generation that is to be attributed to Q in a qualifying period
of Q under this section is not to exceed the amount of generation attributed
to the joint venture undertaking in respect of that same period multiplied by
the relevant proportion.

294.5

The “ relevant proportion ” for the purposes of  subsection (4)  and  section
295 (3)  is—

294.5.a

the percentage of the JV’s ordinary share capital held—

294.5.a.i

where Q is a generating undertaking which is a company, by Q, or

294.5.a.ii

where Q is a generating undertaking which is a group, by members of Q, or

294.5.b

in a case where the JV does not have ordinary share capital, the percentage of
the JV’s profits available for distribution to equity holders of the JV—

294.5.b.i

where Q is a generating undertaking which is a company, to which Q is
beneficially entitled, or

294.5.b.ii

where Q is a generating undertaking which is a group, to which members of Q
are beneficially entitled.

##### Arrangements that reflect receipts (JV participants)

295

295.1

Subsection (2)  applies to generation if—

295.1.a

the generation is attributed to a joint venture undertaking, other than in
accordance with  this section  or  sections 294 ,  296  or  297 ,

295.1.b

a participant (“ Q ”) in the joint venture (“the JV”) that comprises, or is
the principal member of, the joint venture undertaking is party to
arrangements that result in amounts arising by reference to the generation,

295.1.c

those amounts would, if the joint venture undertaking, or a member of it, were
party to those arrangements, be taken into account in determining the
generation receipts of the joint venture undertaking, and

295.1.d

the generation—

295.1.d.i

is not supplied (directly or indirectly) to Q, or

295.1.d.ii

in the case of generation falling within  section 282 (3) (b)  (generation
expected to be generated which was not generated), was not expected to be
supplied (directly or indirectly) to Q.

295.2

Where  this subsection  applies to generation—

295.2.a

the generation is to be attributed to Q (as well as to the joint venture
undertaking),

295.2.b

the generation attributed to Q as a result of  paragraph (a)  is to be
attributed to Q for the qualifying period of Q in which the generation
occurred,

295.2.c

subject to  paragraph (d) , the generation attributed to Q as a result of
paragraph (a)  is to be treated for the purposes of  this Part  as if it had
been attributed under  section 282 (1) ,

295.2.d

in determining the exceptional generation receipts of Q for a qualifying
period of Q under  section 279 (5) —

295.2.e

any generation attributed to Q for that period as a result of  paragraph (a)
is to be ignored for the purposes of Step 2 (which may result in the result of
that Step being nil).

295.3

But amount of generation that is to be attributed to Q in a qualifying period
of Q under  this section  is not to exceed the amount given by subtracting—

295.3.a

the amount of generation attributed to Q in that period under  section 294 ,
from

295.3.b

the amount of generation attributed to the joint venture undertaking in
respect of that same period multiplied by the relevant proportion (see
section 294 (5) ).

##### Generation acquired and supplied by significant minority shareholders

296

296.1

Subsection (3)  applies to generation if—

296.1.a

a subsidiary member (“ A ”) of a generating undertaking that is a group (“ U
”) has a significant minority shareholder that is a company or group,

296.1.b

the generation is generation by a relevant generating station operated by A or
a relevant subsidiary of A (see  section 290 (6) ),

296.1.c

the generation is supplied, directly or indirectly, to a significant minority
shareholder (“ M ”) in A that is a company or a group, and

296.1.d

the generation is subsequently the subject of a wholesale purchase of
electricity from M.

296.2

Where the generation falls within  section 282 (3) (b)  (generation expected
to be generated which was not generated), reference in  subsection (1)  to
supply or purchase is to any supply or purchase that was expected in
consequence of that generation having occurred.

296.3

Where  this subsection  applies to generation—

296.3.a

the generation is to be attributed to M (as well as to U),

296.3.b

in determining the amount of generation receipts to be attributed to U under
section 283  in respect of the generation, do not take account of the
transaction described in  subsection (1) (d) ,

296.3.c

the generation attributed to M as a result of  paragraph (a)  is to be
attributed to M for the qualifying period of M in which the generation
occurred,

296.3.d

subject to  paragraph (f) , the generation attributed to M as a result of
paragraph (a)  is to be treated for the purposes of  this Part  as if it had
been attributed under  section 282 (1) ,

296.3.e

in determining the amount of generation receipts to be attributed to M under
section 283  in respect of generation attributed as a result of  paragraph (a)
, take account of the costs of the transaction under which the generation so
attributed was acquired or was expected to be acquired, and

296.3.f

in determining the exceptional generation receipts of M for a qualifying
period of M under  section 279 (5) , any generation attributed to M for that
period as a result of  paragraph (a)  is to be ignored for the purposes of
Step 2 (which may result in the result of that Step being nil).

296.4

Where the generation is generation by a relevant generating station operated
in partnership and at least one of the partners is neither A nor a relevant
subsidiary of A, only the qualifying proportion of that generation is to be
attributed to M under  subsection (3) (a) .

296.5

For the purposes of  this section  and  section 297 , “the qualifying
proportion” is the proportion of generation that is equal to the proportion of
the partnership’s profits represented by the sum of A’s share of the
partnership’s profits and the shares of those profits of any relevant
subsidiaries of A (and Part 17 of CTA 2009 applies for the purposes of  this
subsection  as it applies for the purposes of corporation tax).

296.6

But the generation that is to be attributed to M in a qualifying period of M
is not to exceed the amount of generation that is attributable on a fair and
reasonable basis to the activities of A and (where it has one or more relevant
subsidiaries) its relevant subsidiaries in that same period multiplied by the
relevant proportion.

296.7

The “ relevant proportion ” for the purposes of  subsection (6)  and  section
297 (4) (b)  is—

296.7.a

the percentage of A’s ordinary share capital held—

296.7.a.i

where M is a generating undertaking which is a company, by M, or

296.7.a.ii

where M is a generating undertaking which is a group, by members of M, or

296.7.b

in a case where A does not have ordinary share capital, the percentage of A’s
profits available for distribution to equity holders of A—

296.7.b.i

where M is a generating undertaking which is a company, to which M is
beneficially entitled, or

296.7.b.ii

where M is a generating undertaking which is a group, to which members of M
are beneficially entitled.

296.8

Where M is not a generating undertaking, M is to be treated as a generating
undertaking for the purposes of  this Part .

##### Arrangements that reflect receipts (significant minority shareholders)

297

297.1

Subsection (2)  applies to generation if—

297.1.a

a subsidiary member (“ A ”) of a generating undertaking that is a group (“ U
”) has a significant minority shareholder that is a company or group,

297.1.b

the generation is generation by a relevant generating station operated by A or
a relevant subsidiary of A (see  section 290 (6) ),

297.1.c

a significant minority shareholder (“ M ”) in A that is a company or a group
is party to arrangements that result in amounts arising by reference to the
generation,

297.1.d

those amounts would be taken into account in determining the generation
receipts of U if A or a relevant subsidiary of A (whichever operates the
station) were party to the arrangements, and

297.1.e

the generation—

297.1.e.i

is not supplied (directly or indirectly) to M, or

297.1.e.ii

in the case of generation falling within  section 282 (3) (b)  (generation
expected to be generated which was not generated), was not expected to be
supplied (directly or indirectly) to M.

297.2

Where  this subsection  applies to generation—

297.2.a

the generation is to be attributed to M (as well as to U),

297.2.b

the generation attributed to M as a result of  paragraph (a)  is to be
attributed to M for the qualifying period of M in which the generation
occurred,

297.2.c

subject to  paragraph (d) , the generation attributed to M as a result of
paragraph (a)  is to be treated for the purposes of  this Part  as if it had
been attributed under  section 282 (1) ,

297.2.d

in determining the exceptional generation receipts of M for a qualifying
period of M under  section 279 (5) , any generation attributed to M for that
period as a result of  paragraph (a)  is to be ignored for the purposes of
Step 2 (which may result in the result of that Step being nil).

297.3

Where the generation is generation by a relevant generating station operated
in partnership and at least one of the partners is neither A nor a relevant
subsidiary of A, only the qualifying proportion of that generation (see
section 294 (4) ) is to be attributed to M under  subsection (2) (a) .

297.4

But the amount of generation that is to be attributed to M in a qualifying
period of M is not to exceed the amount given by subtracting—

297.4.a

the amount of generation attributed to M in that period under  section 296 ,
from

297.4.b

the amount of generation that is attributable on a fair and reasonable basis
to the activities of A and (where it has one or more relevant subsidiaries)
its relevant subsidiaries multiplied by the relevant proportion (see  section
296 (7) ).

297.5

Where M is not a generating undertaking, M is to be treated as a generating
undertaking for the purposes of  this Part .

##### Surrender of shortfalls

298

298.1

This section  applies where in an overlap period for two related generating
undertakings—

298.1.a

one of those undertakings (“ A ”) has a shortfall amount for the overlap
period, and

298.1.b

the other undertaking (“ B ”) has exceptional generation receipts for the
overlap period.

298.2

To determine if an undertaking has a shortfall amount or exceptional
generation receipts for an overlap period, carry out all of the steps in
section 279 (5)  as if the period were a qualifying period, including steps
that would normally be ignored because a result of nil or less has already
been found.

298.3

If the result of Step 5 is less than nil, that result (expressed as a positive
number) is a shortfall amount.

298.4

Where  this section  applies, an amount of the shortfall amount of A may be
surrendered to B.

298.5

Section 299  sets out how much of the shortfall amount may be surrendered by A
to B.

298.6

Two generating undertakings are related generating undertakings if—

298.6.a

one is—

298.6.a.i

a joint venture undertaking, or

298.6.a.ii

a generating undertaking that is a group that has at least one subsidiary
member who has at least one significant minority shareholder, and

298.6.b

the other is a relevant shareholder in the other.

298.7

A generating undertaking (“ C ”) is a relevant shareholder in another
generating undertaking (“ D ”) if—

298.7.a

where D is a joint venture undertaking, C is a participant in the joint
venture that comprises, or is the principal member of, the joint venture
undertaking, or

298.7.b

where D is a generating undertaking that is a group that has at least one
subsidiary member who has at least one significant minority shareholder, C is
a significant minority shareholder in a subsidiary member of D.

298.8

In  this section  “ overlap period ” in relation to two generating
undertakings means—

298.8.a

where a qualifying period of one of the generating undertakings wholly
corresponds with a qualifying period of the other, such a period, and

298.8.b

where a qualifying period of one generating undertaking does not wholly
correspond with a qualifying period of the other, a period—

298.8.b.i

that commences at the same time as a qualifying period of one of them, and

298.8.b.ii

that ends with the earlier of the end of that qualifying period or the end of
the last qualifying period of the other undertaking to commence on or before
that qualifying period.

##### Amount that may be surrendered and use of that amount

299

299.1

Subject to  subsection (7) , the maximum amount of a shortfall amount that may
be surrendered by a generating undertaking (“ A ”) to another (“ B ”) where A
is a relevant shareholder in B, is the lesser of the amounts given by
subsections (2)  and  (3) .

299.2

The amount given by  this subsection  is the amount of the shortfall amount of
A that is, on a fair and reasonable basis, referable to A’s interest in the
generation attributed to B in the overlap period.

299.3

The amount given by  this subsection  is the amount of the exceptional
generation receipts of B for the shortfall period that is, on a fair and
reasonable basis, referable to A’s interest in the generation attributed to B
in the overlap period.

299.4

Subject to  subsection (7) , the maximum amount of a shortfall amount that may
be surrendered by a generating undertaking (“ C ”) to another (“ D ”) where D
is a relevant shareholder in C is the lesser of the amounts given by
subsections (5)  and  (6) .

299.5

The amount given by  this subsection  is the amount of the shortfall amount of
C that is, on a fair and reasonable basis, referable to D’s interest in the
generation attributed to C in the overlap period.

299.6

The amount given by  this subsection  is the amount of the exceptional
generation receipts of D for the shortfall period that is, on a fair and
reasonable basis, referable to D’s interest in the generation attributed to C
in the overlap period.

299.7

A generating undertaking may only surrender an amount of a shortfall amount
relating to an overlap period if the result of Step 5 in  section 279 (5)  for
the undertaking for the qualifying period in which the overlap period falls
would not exceed nil if—

299.7.a

all of the steps in  section 279 (5)  for that qualifying period were carried
out, including steps that would normally be ignored because a result of nil or
less has already been found,

299.7.b

the amount surrendered were added to the result of Step 5, and

299.7.c

all other amounts surrendered for overlap periods falling with that period
were added to the result of that Step.

299.8

Where an amount of a shortfall amount has been surrendered to a generating
undertaking, that amount is to reduce the result of Step 5 in  section 279 (5)
, but not below nil, for the qualifying period in which the overlap period to
which the shortfall amount relates falls.

299.9

A surrender of an amount of a shortfall amount is effective only if—

299.9.a

the generating undertaking which is surrendering the amount has consented to
surrender that amount to the other generating undertaking, and

299.9.b

the other generating undertaking has made a claim to that amount (see  section
305 ).

#### Treatment of company as transparent as alternative to attribution and surrender

##### Election to treat certain companies as transparent

300

300.1

A company that is, or is a member of, a generating undertaking may elect that
the company is to be treated as transparent while the election is in force.

Section 301  sets out the effect of a company being “treated as transparent”.

300.2

An election under  subsection (1) —

300.2.a

must be made by notice to HMRC;

300.2.b

must specify the first day on which the election is to have effect, which must
be no earlier than 12 months before the day on which the notice is given;

300.2.c

may only be made if conditions A and B are met.

300.3

Condition A is that—

300.3.a

the company is a qualifying joint venture that is, or is a member of, a
generating undertaking, or

300.3.b

the company—

300.3.b.i

is a subsidiary member of a group that is a generating undertaking, and

300.3.b.ii

has at least one significant minority shareholder.

300.4

Condition B is that each shareholder of the company—

300.4.a

has at least a 10% interest in it,

300.4.b

is a company, and

300.4.c

has consented to the making of the election.

300.5

Where two or more members of a group are shareholders of the company, they are
to be regarded as a single shareholder (and their interests aggregated) for
the purposes of determining whether subsection (4)(a) is met (but each must
still consent to the making of the election for condition B to be satisfied).

300.6

For the purposes of  this section  and  section 301 —

300.6.a

a person is a shareholder of a company if—

300.6.a.i

in the case of a company that has ordinary share capital, the person holds
ordinary share capital of the company, or

300.6.a.ii

in the case of a company that does not have ordinary share capital, the person
is beneficially entitled to a share of the company’s profits available for
distribution to equity holders of it, and

300.6.b

a shareholder’s interest in a company is—

300.6.b.i

in the case of a company that has ordinary share capital, the proportion of
the ordinary share capital of the company the shareholder holds, or

300.6.b.ii

in the case of a company that does not have ordinary share capital, the
proportion of the company’s profits available for distribution to equity
holders of it to which the shareholder is beneficially entitled.

300.7

An election under  this section  has effect from the date specified in
accordance with  subsection (2) (b)  until—

300.7.a

revoked by the company,

300.7.b

revoked by HMRC, or

300.7.c

a person who was not a shareholder of the company at the time the election
first took effect becomes a shareholder of the company.

Nothing in  this subsection  is to be read as preventing a subsequent election
being made that commences at any time after the first election ceased to have
effect.

300.8

An election may be revoked by the company by notice given to HMRC that
specifies the date the election is to cease to have effect, which must be no
earlier than 12 months before the day on which the notice of revocation is
given.

300.9

An election may be revoked by HMRC by notice given to the company if HMRC
considers that the company or its shareholders have not complied with any
obligation under  this Part .

300.10

A notice under  subsection (9) —

300.10.a

must specify the date from which the revocation has effect (including a date
which if specified would result in the election never having effect), and

300.10.b

must state the reasons for revocation, and

300.10.c

may be appealed by the company by notice to HMRC.

300.11

An appeal under  subsection (10) (c)  must be made during the period of 30
days beginning with the date on which the notice under  subsection (9)  was
given.

Further provision about appeals is contained in Part 5 of TMA 1970 (which
applies in relation to the electricity generator levy as a result of  section
302 ).

##### Effect of company being transparent

301

301.1

This section  applies where a company (“ C ”) is treated as transparent as a
result of an election under  section 300 .

301.2

C is to be treated for the purposes of  this Part  as if it were a
partnership.

301.3

Its shareholders are to be regarded for those purposes as its partners.

301.4

Each shareholder’s share of the profits of the partnership is equal to its
interest in C.

301.5

Where C is a generating undertaking, all generation, generation receipts and
allowable costs that would (ignoring  this section ) be attributed to C in
accordance with  this Part  are to be treated instead as if they resulted from
the operation of a generating station operated in partnership by C’s partners.

301.6

Where C is a member of a group that is a generating undertaking, the
generation, generation receipts and allowable costs that—

301.6.a

would (ignoring  this section ) be attributed to the group in accordance with
this Part , and

301.6.b

are attributable on a fair and reasonable basis to the activities of C,

are to be treated instead as if they resulted from the operation of a
generating station operated in partnership by C’s partners.

301.7

Where C is, or is treated as, the only shareholder in another company (“ D ”),
the generation, generation receipts and allowable costs that—

301.7.a

would (ignoring  this section ) be attributed, in accordance with  this Part ,
to the group of which D is a member, and

301.7.b

are attributable on a fair and reasonable basis to the activities of D,

are to be treated instead as if they resulted from the operation of a
generating station operated in partnership by C’s partners.

301.8

C is to be treated as the only shareholder in another company if—

301.8.a

the other company’s only shareholder is—

301.8.a.i

a company in which C is the only shareholder,

301.8.a.ii

a company in which the only shareholder is a company in which C is the only
shareholder, and so on, or

301.8.b

the other company has more than one shareholder, but each of its shareholders
is one of the following—

301.8.b.i

C;

301.8.b.ii

a company whose only shareholder falls within  paragraph (a) (i)  or  (ii) ;

301.8.b.iii

a company that has more than one shareholder each of which is a company
falling with  sub-paragraph (i)  or  (ii)  or this sub-paragraph.

301.9

Where a shareholder of a company, or a generating undertaking of which such a
shareholder is a member, is liable to an amount of electricity generator levy
as a result of  this section —

301.9.a

where the company is a generating undertaking, it is jointly and severally
liable to that amount (to the extent it arises as a result of  this section ),
or

301.9.b

where the company is a member of a generating undertaking that is a group,
that undertaking is jointly and severally liable to that amount (to the extent
it arises as a result of  this section ).

301.10

Where—

301.10.a

a generating undertaking is liable to an amount of electricity generator levy
as a result of  subsection (9) (a)  or  (b) , and

301.10.b

the qualifying period (“the chargeable period”) by reference to which that
amount was determined does not wholly correspond to a qualifying period of the
undertaking,

the amount is to be apportioned, on a fair and reasonable basis, between the
qualifying periods of the undertaking in which the chargeable period falls.

#### Management and administration

##### General application of corporation tax administration

302

302.1

Where a company is liable to an amount of electricity generator levy, that
amount may be charged on the company as if it were an amount of corporation
tax chargeable on it.

302.2

For the purposes of the collection and management of the electricity generator
levy, any provision made by or under an enactment that applies in relation to
corporation tax is to apply in relation to the electricity generator levy.

302.3

The following are examples of provision that, as a result of  subsection (2) ,
apply in relation to the electricity generator levy—

302.3.a

provision relating to returns of information and the supply of accounts,
statements and reports;

302.3.b

provision relating to the assessing, collecting and receiving of corporation
tax;

302.3.c

provision conferring or regulating a right of appeal;

302.3.d

provision concerning administration, penalties or interest on unpaid amounts
of corporation tax;

302.3.e

provision about the priority of amounts owed to the Commissioners for His
Majesty’s Revenue and Customs in cases of insolvency under the law of any part
of the United Kingdom.

302.4

Accordingly—

302.4.a

TMA 1970 is to have effect as if any reference to corporation tax included
amounts of electricity generator levy that a company is chargeable to, and

302.4.b

Paragraph 1 of Schedule 18 to FA 1998 (company tax returns, assessments and
related matters) has effect as if—

302.4.b.i

the “and” at the end of the paragraph beginning “section 33 of the Finance Act
2022” were omitted, and

302.4.b.ii

at the end there were inserted

and,

      section 302 (1)  of the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023.

302.5

Subsections (1)  to  (4)  are subject to—

302.5.a

any other provision made by or under  this Part , and

302.5.b

any necessary modifications.

302.6

The Treasury may by regulations make the following provision—

302.6.a

provision that disapplies any provision so far as it would otherwise, as a
result of  subsection (2) , apply in relation to the electricity generator
levy;

302.6.b

provision modifying the application of any such provision in relation to the
electricity generator levy;

302.6.c

provision about (including provision modifying) the application of any
provision of the Tax Acts (that would not otherwise apply to the electricity
generator levy as a result of  subsection (2) ) in relation to the levy.

##### Company tax returns

303

303.1

Where a generating undertaking that is a company is a qualifying generating
undertaking for a qualifying period, it must include a statement of the
matters mentioned in  subsection (4)  in its company tax return for the first
accounting period that ends on or after the day on which the qualifying period
ends (and if it would not otherwise be required to make a company tax return
for that period, it must make one).

303.2

Where a generating undertaking that is a group is a qualifying generating
undertaking for a qualifying period, the lead member in that period must
include a statement of the matters mentioned in  subsection (4)  in its
company tax return for the first accounting period that ends on or after the
day on which the qualifying period ends (and if it would not otherwise be
required to make a company tax return for that accounting period it must make
one).

303.3

But  subsections (1)  and  (2)  do not apply in relation to a qualifying
generating undertaking for a qualifying period if it is reasonable to assume
that the result of Step 5 in  section 279 (5)  for that period would be
significantly less than nil.

303.4

The matters that must be stated are as follows—

303.4.a

the amount of generation attributed to the generating undertaking for the
qualifying period under  this Part ,

303.4.b

the amount of generation receipts attributed to that undertaking for that
period under  section 283 ,

303.4.c

the amount of any allowable costs attributed to that undertaking for that
period under  section 284 ,

303.4.d

the amount of the undertaking’s revenue allowance for that period,

303.4.e

in the case of a generating undertaking that is a group, any amount of
electricity generator levy that a member of that group must pay as a result of
an election under  section 290 .

303.5

Where the lead member of a generating undertaking that is a group fails to
comply with the obligation in  subsection (2)  in relation to a qualifying
period, an officer of Revenue and Customs may by notice require another member
of the group to make or amend a company tax return that includes the matters
mentioned in  subsection (4) .

303.6

Nothing in  this section  is to be taken to limit the things which must be
included in a company tax return as a result of  section 302 (4) (b)  (which
has the effect of treating the electricity generator levy as tax for the
purposes of company tax returns).

303.7

Schedule 18 to FA 1998 (company tax returns etc.) applies in relation to a
company required to make, or amend, a company tax return as a result of this
section as if, in paragraph 8(1) of that Schedule (calculation of tax
payable), at the end there were inserted—

      Sixth step   Add any amount of electricity generator levy the company is
liable to in respect of that accounting period under Part  5  of the Finance
(No. 2) Act 2023.

303.8

For the purposes of that modification, a company is liable to an amount of
electricity generator levy in respect of an accounting period if the company
tax return for that period must, as a result of this section, include a
statement of the matters mentioned in  subsection (4)  in relation to the
qualifying period to which that amount relates.

##### Requirement to provide information about payments

304

304.1

This section  applies if—

304.1.a

an amount of electricity generator levy is chargeable on a company as if it
were an amount of corporation tax, and

304.1.b

a payment is made (whether or not by the company) that is wholly or partly in
respect of that sum.

304.2

The responsible company must give notice to an officer of Revenue and Customs,
on or before the date the payment is made, of the amount of the payment that
is in respect of that sum.

304.3

The “responsible company” is—

304.3.a

in the case of an amount of electricity generator levy to which a generating
undertaking that is a company is liable, that company, or

304.3.b

in the case of an amount of electricity generator levy to which a generating
undertaking that is a group is liable, the lead member of that group.

304.4

The requirement in  subsection (2)  is to be treated, for the purposes of Part
7 of Schedule 36 to FA 2008 (information and inspection powers: penalties), as
a requirement in an information notice.

304.5

This section  is subject to any provision to the contrary in regulations under
section 59E of TMA 1970 (further provision as to when corporation tax is due
and payable).

##### Claims to shortfall amounts

305

305.1

Part 8 of Schedule 18 to FA 1998 applies to a claim to a shortfall amount
under  section 299  as it applies to a claim for group relief under Part 5 of
CTA 2010.

305.2

That Part has effect for the purposes of a claim to a shortfall amount as if—

305.2.a

references to “relief” were to the relief from electricity generator levy
given by claiming a shortfall amount,

305.2.b

references to “accounting period” were to “qualifying period”, except where
the context otherwise requires (for example, in references to the company tax
return for the accounting period),

305.2.c

references to “ company ” (apart from in “company tax return”) were to “
generating undertaking ” (and if the context requires in the case of a
generating undertaking that is a group, references were to the lead member of
the group),

305.2.d

in paragraph 68, sub-paragraphs (3) to (8) were omitted,

305.2.e

in paragraph 69(3), in the first step, “under Part 5 or (as the case may be )
Part 5A of the Corporation Tax Act 2010” were omitted,

305.2.f

in paragraph 70—

305.2.f.i

in sub-paragraph (1), for “Requirement 1 in section 130(2), 135(2), 188CB(3)
or (as the case may be) 188CC(3) of the Corporation Tax Act 2010” there were
substituted  “ section 299 (9) (a)  of the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023” , and

305.2.f.ii

sub-paragraphs (2), (5) and (6) were omitted,

305.2.g

in paragraph 71—

305.2.g.i

in sub-paragraph (1), for paragraph (e) there were substituted—

305.2.g.i.e

the overlap period to which the shortfall amount relates.

, and

305.2.g.ii

sub-paragraph (1A) were omitted,

305.2.h

paragraphs 71A, 72, 75A, 77 and 77A were omitted, and

305.2.i

such other modifications as are necessary were made.

##### Application of Part 5A of TMA 1970 and Instalment Payments Regulations

306

306.1

Section 59E of TMA 1970 (further provision as to when corporation tax is due
and payable) has effect as if, in subsection (11) after paragraph (f) there
were inserted—

306.1.g

to any sum chargeable on a company under  section 279  of the Finance (No. 2)
Act 2023 (electricity generator levy) as if it were an amount of corporation
tax chargeable on the company.

306.2

Section 59F of that Act (arrangements for paying corporation tax on behalf of
group members) has effect as if, in subsection (6)—

306.2.a

the “and” at the end of paragraph (d) were omitted,

306.2.b

after paragraph (e) there were inserted

, and

306.2.b.f

to any sum chargeable on a company under  section 279  of the Finance (No. 2)
Act 2023 (electricity generator levy) as if it were an amount of corporation
tax chargeable on the company.

306.3

The Instalment Payment Regulations have effect as if—

306.3.a

in paragraph (2), after “company” there were inserted  “, other than a company
that is, or is a member of a group that is, a generating undertaking (within
the meaning of  Part 5  of the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023),” , and

306.3.b

after that paragraph there were inserted—

306.3.b.2ZA

References in these Regulations to profits, in any accounting period, of a
company that is, or is a member of a group that is, a generating undertaking
(within the meaning of that Part), are to the greater of—

306.3.b.2ZA.a

the company's augmented profits within the meaning given by—

306.3.b.2ZA.a.i

in the case of an accounting period beginning before 1 April 2023, section
279G of CTA 2010, or

306.3.b.2ZA.a.ii

in the case of an accounting period beginning on or after that date, sections
18L and 18M of that Act,

306.3.b.2ZA.b

where the company is a generating undertaking, its exceptional generation
receipts (within the meaning of that Part, and

306.3.b.2ZA.c

where the company is a member of a group that is a generating undertaking, the
exceptional generation receipts of the undertaking.

306.4

If—

306.4.a

electricity generator levy is chargeable on company, and

306.4.b

under the Instalment Payment Regulations one or more instalment payments in
respect of the total liability of the company for an accounting period
beginning before the day on which this Act is passed are treated as becoming
due and payable before the day on which this Act is passed 2023 (“pre-
commencement instalments”),

any amount of electricity generator levy chargeable for that period is to be
ignored for the purposes of determining the amount of any pre-commencement
instalment.

306.5

The first instalment in respect of that liability which is treated as becoming
due and payable on or after the day on which this Act is passed is to be
increased by the following amount, namely the difference between—

306.5.a

the aggregate amount of the pre-commencement instalments determined in
accordance with  subsection (4) , and

306.5.b

the aggregate amount of those instalments determined ignoring that subsection.

306.6

In the Instalment Payment Regulations—

306.6.a

in regulations 6(1)(a), 7(2), 8(1)(a) and (2)(a), 9(5), 10(1), 11(1) and 13,
references to those Regulations are to be read as including a reference to
subsections (4)  and  (5)  (and in regulation 7(2) “the regulation in
question”, and in regulation 8(2) “that regulation”, are to be read
accordingly), and

306.6.b

in regulation 9(3), the reference to those Regulations is to be read as
including a reference to those subsections.

306.7

In this section “ the Instalment Payment Regulations ” means the Corporation
Tax (Instalment Payments) Regulations 1998 ( S.I. 1998/3175 ).

#### Supplemental

##### Application of Part 5 of CTA 2010 for the purposes of determining interests

307

307.1

Chapter 6 of Part 5 of CTA 2010 (group relief: equity holders and profits or
assets available for distribution) applies for the purposes of determining the
interests of persons in companies under the following provisions (each a
“relevant provision”)—

307.1.a

section 287 (4) ;

307.1.b

section 290 (5) ;

307.1.c

section 292 (1) (b) (ii) ,  (3) (b)  and  (4) (b) ;

307.1.d

section 293 (7) (b) ;

307.1.e

section 294 (5) (b) ;

307.1.f

section 296 (7) (b) .

307.2

For those purposes that Part has effect as if—

307.2.a

references to section 151(4)(a) and (b) of that Act were references to the
relevant provision,

307.2.b

in section 158 of that Act after subsection (2) there were inserted—

307.2.b.2A

But for those purposes a person carrying on a business of banking is not
treated as a loan creditor of a company in respect of any loan capital or debt
issued or incurred by the company for money lent by the person to the company
in the ordinary course of that business.

,

307.2.c

sections 171(1)(b) and (3), 173, 174 and 176 to 178 of that Act were omitted,
and

307.2.d

in its application for the purposes of  paragraph (a)  of  section 290 (5) ,
any reference to company A were to the person referred to in that paragraph.

307.3

That Part is to be read, for the purposes mentioned in subsection (1), with
all modifications necessary to ensure that—

307.3.a

it applies to a company which does not have share capital, and to holders of
corresponding ordinary holdings in such a company, in a way which corresponds
to the way it applies to companies with ordinary share capital and holders of
ordinary shares in such companies,

307.3.b

it applies to a company which is an unincorporated association in a way which
corresponds to the way it applies to companies which are bodies corporate,

307.3.c

it applies in relation to ownership through an entity (other than a company),
or any trust or other arrangement, in a way which corresponds to the way it
applies to ownership through a company, and

307.3.d

for the purposes of achieving  paragraphs (a)  to  (c) , profits or assets are
attributed to holders of corresponding ordinary holdings in unincorporated
associations, entities, trusts or other arrangements in a manner which
corresponds to the way profits or assets are attributed to holders of ordinary
shares in a company which is a body corporate.

307.4

In  subsection (3)  “corresponding ordinary holding” in an unincorporated
association, entity, trust or other arrangement means a holding or interest
which provides the holder with economic rights corresponding to those provided
by a holding of ordinary shares in a body corporate.

##### Anti-avoidance

308

308.1

This section  applies to arrangements if the main purpose, or one of the main
purposes of the arrangements, is to—

308.1.a

reduce or avoid a charge to the electricity generator levy, or

308.1.b

otherwise avoid the effect of any of the provisions of  this Part .

308.2

Any such reduction or avoidance that would (in the absence of  this section )
arise from such arrangements is to be counteracted by the making of such
adjustments as are just and reasonable.

308.3

Where the arrangements result in a change in the composition of a generating
undertaking that is a group (including where such a group ceases to exist),
those adjustments may include adjustments to secure that the same liability to
electricity generator levy arises, and can be recovered from members of the
group, as if the composition of the group had not changed.

308.4

Any adjustments required to be made under  this section  (whether or not by an
officer of Revenue and Customs) may be made by way of—

308.4.a

an assessment,

308.4.b

the modification of an assessment,

308.4.c

amendment or disallowance of a claim,

or otherwise.

308.5

In  this section  “arrangements” include any agreement, understanding, scheme
transaction or series of transactions (whether or not legally enforceable).

##### Information sharing

309

309.1

This section  applies to information that—

309.1.a

is held by the Secretary of State, the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority
or the Northern Ireland Authority for Energy Regulation (each “a relevant
person”), and

309.1.b

is relevant to the electricity generator levy.

309.2

Information to which  this section  applies may be disclosed by a relevant
person (or anyone acting on behalf of that person) to the Commissioners for
His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs for the purposes of their functions relating
to electricity generator levy or any other tax.

309.3

Subject to  subsection (5) , no duty of confidentiality or other restriction
on disclosure (however imposed) prevents the disclosure of information in
accordance with  subsection (2) .

309.4

This section  does not limit the circumstances in which information may be
disclosed under—

309.4.a

section 105(2) to (4) of the Utilities Act 2000,

309.4.b

Article 63(2) to (4) of the Energy (Northern Ireland) Order 2003 ( S.I.
2003/419 (N.I. 6) ), or

309.4.c

any other enactment or rule of law.

309.5

Nothing in  this section  authorises the making of a disclosure which—

309.5.a

contravenes the data protection legislation (save that the power conferred by
this section  is to be taken into account in determining whether a disclosure
contravenes that legislation), or

309.5.b

is prohibited by any of Parts 1 to 7 or Chapter 1 of Part 9 of the
Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (save that the power conferred by  this section
is to be taken into account when determining whether a disclosure is
prohibited by those provisions).

##### Interaction of electricity generator levy with corporation tax

310

310.1

In calculating profits or losses for the purposes of corporation tax—

310.1.a

no deduction is allowed in respect of the electricity generator levy, and

310.1.b

no account is to be taken of any amount which is paid by a person to another
person for the purposes of meeting or reimbursing the cost of the electricity
generator levy.

310.2

Subsection (3)  applies if—

310.2.a

two related generating undertakings (within the meaning of  section 298 ) have
an agreement between them in relation to the surrender of amounts of shortfall
amounts (within the meaning of that section),

310.2.b

such an amount is surrendered between them in accordance with  section 299 ,
and

310.2.c

as a result of the agreement the undertaking to whom the amount is surrendered
makes a payment to the other undertaking that does not exceed the amount
surrendered.

310.3

The payment—

310.3.a

is not to be taken into account in determining the profits or losses of either
company for corporation tax purposes, and

310.3.b

for corporation tax purposes is not to be regarded as a distribution.

##### Regulations under 

311

311.1

Regulations under  this Part  are to be made by statutory instrument.

311.2

Regulations under  this Part  may—

311.2.a

make provision having retrospective effect, provided any such provision does
not have the effect of increasing the amount of the electricity generator levy
any generating undertaking is liable to;

311.2.b

make different provision for different purposes;

311.2.c

make supplementary, incidental and consequential provision;

311.2.d

make transitional or transitory provision and savings.

311.3

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  this Part  is subject to
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of the House of Commons.

##### Meaning of “qualifying new generating plant”

311A

311A.1

Generating plant is “qualifying new generating plant” if it is new generating
plant commissioned as part of a qualifying project that meets the new
investment condition.

311A.2

The new investment condition is met in relation to a qualifying project if on
21 November 2023 it was reasonable to conclude, having regard to all of the
circumstances, that there is a significant likelihood of the project not
proceeding.

311A.3

The Treasury may by regulations provide for cases in which qualifying projects
are to be treated as meeting the new investment condition.

311A.4

“ Qualifying project ” means a project to commission—

311A.4.a

new generating plant for—

311A.4.a.i

a new generating station, or

311A.4.a.ii

an existing generating station which (as a result of the project) is to be
wholly or substantially comprised of new generating plant, or

311A.4.b

new generating plant that increases the generating capacity of an existing
generating station.

311A.5

Subsection (6) applies where new generating plant that increases the
generating capacity of an existing generating station replaces existing
generating plant.

311A.6

Only so much of the new generating plant as represents generating capacity in
excess of the capacity of the generating plant it replaces is to be regarded
as qualifying new generating plant.

##### Minor definitions relating to electricity market

312

In this Part—

“ the Balancing and Settlement Code ” means the code for the governance of
electricity balancing and settlement in Great Britain which is maintained in
accordance with the conditions of transmission licences granted under section
6(1)(b) of the Electricity Act 1989 as that code has effect from time to time;
“ distribution system ” and “transmission system” mean anything which would be
such a system for the purposes of— Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989, or Part
2 of the Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order 1992 ( S.I. 1992/231 (N.I. 1) );
“ feed-in tariff export payments ” means export payments within the meaning of
Schedule A to Condition 33 of the standard conditions of electricity supply
licences; “ generation ” does not include the release of electricity from a
battery; “ licensed distribution system ” means a distribution system operated
by the holder of a licence under— section 6(1)(c) of the Electricity Act 1989,
or Article 10(1)(bb) of the Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order 1992; “
licensed transmission system ” means a transmission system operated by the
holder of a licence under— section 6(1)(b) of the Electricity Act 1989, or
Article 10(1)(b) of the Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order 1992; “ the SEM
Memorandum ” means the Memorandum of Understanding referred to in Article 2(3)
of the Electricity (Single Wholesale Market) (Northern Ireland) Order 2007 (
S.I. 2007/913 (N.I. 7) ). “ settlement code ” means— the Balancing and
Settlement Code, or the Trading and Settlement Code; “ the standard conditions
of electricity supply licences ” means the standard conditions incorporated in
licences under section 6(1)(d) of the Electricity Act 1989 by virtue of
section 8A of that Act; “ the Trading and Settlement Code ” means the Single
Electricity Market Trading and Settlement Code referred to in the SEM
Memorandum as that code has effect from time to time.

##### Definitions in 

313

The following table contains a list of terms used in  this Part  and the
provisions that define or explain them.

Term Provision defining or explaining accounting period (generally) section
280 (3) accounting period (of a generating undertaking that is a group)
section 288 (1) allowable costs section 284 (1) arm's length provision section
283 (9) Balancing and Settlement Code section 312 baseline fuel cost section
285 (3) company section 280 (1) company tax return section 284 (3)
distribution system section 312 electricity generator levy section 279 (2)
exceptional generation fuel costs section 285 (1) feed-in tariff export
payments section 312 generating undertaking section 280 (1) generation fuel
costs section 285 (2) generation receipts section 283 (2) grid connected
electricity generation section 282 (3) group section 287 (1) HMRC section 281
(3) joint venture undertaking section 293 (2) lead member (of a group) section
288 (2) principal member (of a group) section 287 (2) qualifying electricity
purchase costs section 284 (6) qualifying joint venture section 292 (1)
qualifying new generating plant  section 311A qualifying partnership section
291 (1) qualifying period section 280 (2) reference period (in relation to the
determination of baseline fuel cost) section 285 (4) relevant generating
station section 280 (1) relevant place section 280 (1) relevant subsidiary (in
sections 290 ,  296  and  297 ) section 290 (6) SEM Memorandum section 312
settlement code section 312 significant equity holder section 286 (7)
significant minority shareholder (that is a person) section 290 (5) (a)
significant minority shareholder (that is a group of companies) section 290
(5) (b) standard conditions of electricity supply licences section 312 subject
to a contract for difference, an investment contract, a revenue collection
contract or feed-in tariff export payments (in relation to a generating
station) section 280 (1) subsidiary member (of a group) section 287 (3)  third
party (in relation to a generating undertaking) section 286 (7) Trading and
Settlement Code section 312 transmission system section 312

### Other taxes

#### Stamp duty land tax

##### Transactions funded with the assistance of a public subsidy

314

314.1

In section 71 of FA 2003 (certain acquisitions by registered social landlord),
after subsection (4) insert—

314.1.5

In this section “public subsidy” also means any grant under section 31 of the
Local Government Act 2003 (grants towards expenditure incurred or to be
incurred by local authorities) towards expenditure incurred or to be incurred
on the provision of social housing within the meaning of Part 2 of the Housing
and Regeneration Act 2008 (see sections 68 and 72 of that Act).

314.2

The amendment made by  subsection (1)  has effect in relation to land
transactions the effective date of which falls on or after 15 March 2023.

#### Value added tax

##### Deposit schemes

315

In Part 3 of VATA 1994 (application of Act in particular cases), after section
55A insert—

######### Deposit schemes: designation

315.55B

315.55B.1

In sections 55C and 55D “ a designated deposit scheme ” means a deposit scheme
which is designated, for the purposes of this section, by regulations made by
the Commissioners.

315.55B.2

A “ deposit scheme ” means a scheme which is established—

315.55B.2.a

by regulations under Schedule 8 to the Environment Act 2021, or

315.55B.2.b

by or under any other enactment that makes similar provision for a returnable
deposit to be paid in relation to goods.

315.55B.3

In subsection (2)(b), the reference to an “ enactment ” includes a reference
to an enactment comprised in, or in an instrument made under—

315.55B.3.a

an Act of the Scottish Parliament,

315.55B.3.b

a Measure or Act of Senedd Cymru, or

315.55B.3.c

Northern Ireland legislation.

315.55B.4

Section 97(5) (statutory instruments: procedure) does not apply to a statutory
instrument containing only regulations under subsection (1).

######### Deposit schemes: value of supply

315.55C

315.55C.1

This section applies if—

315.55C.1.a

a taxable person makes a taxable (but not a zero-rated) supply of goods, and

315.55C.1.b

a deposit amount is payable in relation to the goods supplied.

315.55C.2

For the purposes of this section and section 55D, a “ deposit amount ” in
relation to goods is an amount that, in accordance with the provisions of a
designated deposit scheme—

315.55C.2.a

is added to the price payable for the goods, and

315.55C.2.b

must be repaid by a person, if the conditions for repayment under the scheme
are met.

315.55C.3

The deposit amount is to be disregarded in determining the amount of the
consideration for the purposes of calculating the value of the supply under
this Act.

######### Deposit schemes: liability to account for VAT on deposit amounts

315.55D

315.55D.1

For the purposes of this section, a person makes a “relevant deposit scheme
supply” if—

315.55D.1.a

the person makes the first supply of goods in relation to which a deposit
amount is payable (whether or not another person makes a subsequent supply of
those goods in relation to which a deposit amount is payable), and

315.55D.1.b

that supply is a taxable (but not a zero-rated) supply.

315.55D.2

A person who makes relevant deposit scheme supplies is liable to account for
and pay the VAT in respect of the deposit amount that, on the applicable
assumption, would have been charged in relation to the proportion of the
supplies that is determined, in accordance with provision made by or under
regulations under subsection (4), as being attributable to goods in respect of
which no deposit amount is repaid.

315.55D.3

The applicable assumption is that, in the case of those goods, section 55C(3)
is ignored and the deposit amount and the price payable for the goods are
regarded instead as indistinguishable parts of the consideration for the
supply of the goods.

315.55D.4

The Commissioners may by regulations make provision about accounting for VAT
in relation to designated deposit schemes including, in particular, provision—

315.55D.4.a

for the making of financial adjustments in connection with the liability to
account for and pay VAT under subsection (2);

315.55D.4.b

specifying the methods for calculating those adjustments;

315.55D.4.c

specifying the methods for determining or estimating the proportion of
supplies in respect of which deposit amounts are not repaid;

315.55D.4.d

about the manner in which, and the period within which, adjustments are to be
made (including adjustments for the correction of errors);

315.55D.4.e

specifying the conditions subject to which adjustments are to be made;

315.55D.4.f

conferring power on the Commissioners to make provision for the purposes of
paragraphs (a) to (e) by means of a notice published in accordance with the
regulations.

315.55D.5

The power to make regulations under subsection (4) includes power to make (or
to enable the Commissioners to make)—

315.55D.5.a

different provision for different purposes;

315.55D.5.b

different provision for different areas;

315.55D.5.c

consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional, transitory or saving
provision.

#### Import duty

##### Dumping, subsidisation and safeguarding remedies

316

Schedules  19  and  20  make provision for the purposes of import duty—

316.a

requiring the Trade Remedies Authority (“the TRA”) to give the Secretary of
State notice at certain points in dumping, subsidisation and safeguarding
investigations,

316.b

enabling the TRA to include more than one option in recommendations to the
Secretary of State in relation to such investigations,

316.c

authorising the Secretary of State to ask for additional advice from, and act
otherwise than in accordance with a recommendation of, the TRA in relation to
such investigations,

316.d

requiring the TRA to advise the Secretary of State on whether the economic
interest test is met in relation to remedies that it recommends in dumping,
subsidisation or safeguarding cases,

316.e

about reviews of the application of remedies in such cases,

316.f

about bilateral safeguards, and

316.g

about Part 12 of the Trade Remedies (Dumping and Subsidisation) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/450 ).

##### Rulings as to method of valuation of goods

317

317.1

Section 24 of TCTA 2018 (rulings as to application of customs tariff or place
of origin) is amended as follows.

317.2

In the heading, after “customs tariff” insert  “, valuation method” .

317.3

In subsection (1), after paragraph (a) (but before the “or”) insert—

317.3.aa

determining the value of any goods for the purposes of this Part,

.

##### Discharging goods from free-circulation procedure subject to guarantee

318

318.1

In paragraph 17 of Schedule 1 to TCTA 2018 (releasing and discharging goods to
and from Customs procedures), after sub-paragraph (5) insert—

318.1.5A

Sub-paragraph (5B) applies where—

318.1.5A.a

goods are declared for the free-circulation procedure, but

318.1.5A.b

it is impracticable to immediately ascertain the amount of import duty (if
any) payable in respect of the goods.

318.1.5B

The discharge of goods from the free-circulation procedure in accordance with
sub-paragraph (4) may, if HMRC think fit, be subject to an approved guarantee
being given in respect of any liability or potential liability to import duty
in respect of the goods.

318.2

In CEMA 1979, omit section 119 (delivery of imported goods on giving of
security for duty).

318.3

The amendments made by  subsections (1)  and  (2)  have effect in relation to
goods in respect of which a Customs declaration is accepted, for the purposes
of TCTA 2018, on or after the day on which this Act is passed (and subsection
(2)  does not affect the application of section 119 of CEMA 1979 in relation
to goods in respect of which a Customs declaration is accepted before that
day).

318.4

In Schedule 7 to TCTA 2018 (import duty: consequential amendments), omit
paragraph 90.

#### Fuel duties

##### Excepted machines etc

319

319.1

HODA 1979 is amended as follows.

319.2

Schedule 1A (excepted machines able to use rebated diesel etc) is amended in
accordance with subsections  (3)  and  (4) .

319.3

In paragraph 6 (vessels)—

319.3.a

in the heading, after “Vessels” insert  “etc” ;

319.3.b

after sub-paragraph (3) insert—

319.3.b.4

A tractor or gear owned by a charity and used by it for the purpose of
launching or hauling in a lifeboat owned by it.

319.4

In paragraph 8 (other machines or appliances)—

319.4.a

in sub-paragraph (1)—

319.4.a.i

in paragraph (a), after “pisciculture” insert  “, arboriculture” ;

319.4.a.ii

in paragraph (d), at the beginning insert  “primarily” ;

319.4.a.iii

in paragraph (e), for “of premises that are used for commercial purposes”
substitute  “for any premises” ;

319.4.b

after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

319.4.b.3

The Commissioners may publish a notice making provision for the purposes of
sub-paragraph (1)(d) about the meaning of—

319.4.b.3.a

“primarily”, and

319.4.b.3.b

“used for commercial purposes”.

319.5

In section 14B (rebate on bioblend used as fuel for excepted machines), for
subsection (6) substitute—

319.5.6

In subsection (3)—

                                                               “ HO% ” means
the percentage of the bioblend that is heavy oil, and
“ BD% ” means the percentage of the bioblend that is biodiesel,

where the percentages are by volume to the nearest 0.001%.

319.6

The amendments made by subsections  (2)  to  (4)  are to be treated as having
come into force on 15 March 2023.

#### Tobacco products duty

##### Rates of tobacco products duty

320

320.1

In Schedule 1 to TDPA 1979 (table of rates of tobacco products duty), for the
Table substitute—

                                      TABLE
1 Cigarettes                                                      An amount
equal to the higher of—
16.5% of the retail price plus £294.72 per thousand cigarettes, or
£393.45 per thousand cigarettes.
2 Cigars £367.61 per kilogram 3 Hand-rolling tobacco £351.03 per kilogram 4
Other smoking tobacco and chewing tobacco £161.62 per kilogram 5 Tobacco for
heating £302.93 per kilogram

320.2

In consequence of the provision made by  subsection (1) , in Schedule 2 to the
Travellers’ Allowances Order 1994 (which provides in certain circumstances for
a simplified calculation of excise duty on goods brought into Great Britain)—

320.2.a

in the entry relating to cigarettes, for “£347.86” substitute  “£393.45” ,

320.2.b

in the entry relating to hand rolling tobacco, for “£302.34” substitute
“£351.03” ,

320.2.c

in the entry relating to other smoking tobacco and chewing tobacco, for
“£144.17” substitute  “£161.62” ,

320.2.d

in the entry relating to cigars, for “£327.92” substitute  “£367.61” ,

320.2.e

in the entry relating to cigarillos, for “£327.92” substitute  “£367.61” , and

320.2.f

in the entry relating to tobacco for heating, for “£81.07” substitute
“£90.88” .

320.3

The amendments made by this section are treated as having come into force at
6pm on 15 March 2023.

#### Soft drinks industry levy

##### Flavour concentrates

321

Schedule 21  makes amendments of Part 2 of FA 2017 (soft drinks industry levy)
in connection with flavour concentrates.

#### Air passenger duty

##### New bands and rates

322

322.1

Section 30 of FA 1994 (air passenger duty: rates) is amended as follows.

322.2

In subsection (1A), after “long haul” insert  “and ultra-long haul” .

322.3

After subsection (1A) insert—

322.3.1B

If the passenger’s journey ends at a place in the United Kingdom—

322.3.1B.a

if the passenger’s agreement for carriage provides for standard class travel
in relation to every flight on the passenger’s journey, the rate is £6.50, and

322.3.1B.b

in any other case, the rate is £13.

322.4

In subsection (2) omit “the United Kingdom or”.

322.5

After subsection (2) insert—

322.5.2A

If the passenger’s journey ends at a place in a territory specified in Part 1A
of Schedule 5A—

322.5.2A.a

if the passenger’s agreement for carriage provides for standard class travel
in relation to every flight on the passenger’s journey, the rate is £87, and

322.5.2A.b

in any other case, the rate is £191.

322.6

In subsection (4A)—

322.6.a

in paragraph (a), for “£84” substitute  “£91” ;

322.6.b

in paragraph (b), for “£185” substitute  “£200” .

322.7

In subsection (4E)—

322.7.a

before paragraph (a) insert—

322.7.a.za

if the rate which (apart from this subsection) would apply is the rate in
subsection (1B)(a) or (b), a rate of £78 is to apply instead,

;

322.7.b

in paragraph (a), for “equal to six times the rate in subsection (2)(a)”
substitute  “of £78” ;

322.7.c

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (a);

322.7.d

after paragraph (a) insert—

322.7.d.aa

if the rate which (apart from this subsection) would apply is the rate in
subsection (2A)(a) or (b), a rate of £574 is to apply instead, and

;

322.7.e

in paragraph (d), for “equal to 6.6 times the rate in subsection (4A)(a)”
substitute  “of £601” .

322.8

In Schedule 5A to FA 1994 (air passenger duty: territories etc)—

322.8.a

in Part 1 (Part 1 territories)—

322.8.a.i

for “Czech Republic” substitute  “Czechia” ;

322.8.a.ii

for “Former Yugoslav Republic of” substitute  “North” ;

322.8.b

after Part 1 insert—

############# Part 1A territories

                         Afghanistan Cuba Kyrgyzstan Senegal Angola Curacao
Lebanon Seychelles Anguilla Djibouti Liberia Sierra Leone Antigua and Barbuda
Dominica Macau Sint Eustatius Armenia Dominican Republic Malawi Sint Maarten
Aruba Egypt Maldives Somalia Azerbaijan El Salvador Mali South Korea Bahrain
Equatorial Guinea Martinique South Sudan Bangladesh Eritrea Mauritania Sri
Lanka Barbados Ethiopia Mayotte St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha
Belize French Guiana Mongolia St Kitts and Nevis Benin Gabon Montserrat Sudan
Bermuda Georgia Namibia Suriname Bhutan Ghana Nepal Syria Bonaire Grenada
Nicaragua Tajikistan Botswana Guadeloupe Niger Tanzania Brazil Guatemala
Nigeria The Bahamas British Virgin Islands Guinea North Korea The Gambia
Burkina Faso Guinea-Bissau Oman Togo Burundi Guyana Pakistan Trinidad and
Tobago Cameroon Haiti Panama Turkmenistan Canada Honduras Qatar Turks and
Caicos Islands Cape Verde India Russian Federation, east of the Ural Mountains
Uganda Cayman Islands Iran Rwanda United Arab Emirates Central African
Republic Iraq Saba United States (including Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin
Islands) Chad Israel Saint Barthélemy Uzbekistan China Ivory Coast Saint Lucia
Venezuela Colombia Jamaica Saint Martin Yemen Comoros Jordan Saint Pierre and
Miquelon Zambia Congo Kazakhstan Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Zimbabwe
Congo (Democratic Republic) Kenya Sao Tome and Principe Costa Rica Kuwait
Saudi Arabia

.

322.9

In consequence of the amendments made by this section, in Schedule 1 to The
Aircraft Operators (Accounts and Records) Regulations 1994 ( S.I. 1994/1737 )
(particulars of an air passenger duty account), in paragraph (e)—

322.9.a

before sub-paragraph (i) insert—

322.9.a.ai

chargeable at the rates set out in section 30(1B)(a) and (b) of the Act;

;

322.9.b

after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

322.9.b.ia

chargeable at the rates set out in section 30(2A)(a) and (b) of the Act;

;

322.9.c

in sub-paragraph (viii), for “(a)” substitute  “(za), (a), (aa)” .

322.10

The amendments made by  this section  have effect in relation to the carriage
of passengers beginning on or after 1 April 2023.

##### Northern Ireland rates

323

323.1

Section 30A of FA 1994 (Northern Ireland long haul rates of duty) is amended
as follows.

323.2

In the heading, after “long haul” insert  “and ultra-long haul” .

323.3

In subsection (5A), in paragraph (c) omit sub-paragraph (ii) and the “or”
before it.

323.4

After subsection (7) insert—

323.4.7A

For the purposes of any paragraph, an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly may
set one rate for cases within section 30(2A) and a different rate for cases
within section 30(4A).

323.5

The amendments made by this section have effect in relation to the carriage of
passengers beginning on or after 1 April 2023.

#### Vehicle taxes

##### Rates of vehicle excise duty

324

324.1

Schedule 1 to VERA 1994 (annual rates of vehicle excise duty) is amended as
follows.

324.2

In paragraph 1 (general rate)—

324.2.a

in sub-paragraph (2) (vehicle not covered elsewhere in Schedule with engine
cylinder capacity exceeding 1,549cc), for “£295” substitute  “£325” , and

324.2.b

in sub-paragraph (2A) (vehicle not covered elsewhere in Schedule with engine
cylinder capacity not exceeding 1,549cc), for “£180” substitute  “£200” .

324.3

In paragraph 1B (graduated rates for light passenger vehicles registered
before 1 April 2017), for the Table substitute—

 CO2 Emissions Figure Rate                                          (1) (2)
(3) (4) Exceeding Not exceeding Reduced rate Standard Rate g/km g/km £ £ 100
110 10 20 110 120 25 35 120 130 140 150 130 140 170 180 140 150 190 200 150
165 230 240 165 175 280 290 175 185 310 320 185 200 355 365 200 225 385 395
225 255 665 675 255 — 685 695

.

324.4

In the sentence immediately following the Table in that paragraph, for
paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute—

324.4.a

in column (3), in the last two rows, “385” were substituted for “665” and
“685”, and

324.4.b

in column (4), in the last two rows, “395” were substituted for “675” and
“695”.

324.5

In paragraph 1GC (graduated rates for first licence for light passenger
vehicles registered on or after 1 April 2017), for Table 1 (vehicles other
than higher rate diesel vehicles) substitute—

 CO2 Emissions Figure Rate                                          (1) (2)
(3) (4) Exceeding Not exceeding Reduced rate Standard Rate g/km g/km £ £ 0 50
0 10 50 75 20 30 75 90 120 130 90 100 155 165 100 110 175 185 110 130 200 210
130 150 245 255 150 170 635 645 170 190 1030 1040 190 225 1555 1565 225 255
2210 2220 255 — 2595 2605

.

324.6

In that paragraph, for Table 2 (higher rate diesel vehicles) substitute—

 CO2 Emissions Figure Rate                                          (1) (2)
(3) Exceeding Not exceeding Rate g/km g/km £ 0 50 30 50 75 130 75 90 165 90
100 185 100 110 210 110 130 255 130 150 645 150 170 1040 170 190 1565 190 225
2220 225 255 2605 255 — 2605

.

324.7

In paragraph 1GD(1) (rates for any other licence for light passenger vehicles
registered on or after 1 April 2017)—

324.7.a

in paragraph (a) (reduced rate), for “£155” substitute  “£170” , and

324.7.b

in paragraph (b) (standard rate), for “£165” substitute  “£180” .

324.8

In paragraph 1GE(2) (rates for light passenger vehicles registered on or after
1 April 2017 with a price exceeding £40,000)—

324.8.a

in paragraph (a), for “£510” substitute  “£560” , and

324.8.b

in paragraph (b), for “£520” substitute  “£570” .

324.9

In paragraph 1J(a) (rates for light goods vehicles that are not pre-2007 or
post-2008 lower emission vans), for “£290” substitute  “£320” .

324.10

In paragraph 2(1) (rates for motorcycles)—

324.10.a

in paragraph (a) (engine cylinder capacity not exceeding 150cc), for “£22”
substitute  “£24” ,

324.10.b

in paragraph (b) (motorbicycles with engine cylinder capacity exceeding 150cc
but not exceeding 400cc), for “£47” substitute  “£52” ,

324.10.c

in paragraph (c) (motorbicycles with engine cylinder capacity exceeding 400cc
but not exceeding 600cc), for “£73” substitute  “£80” , and

324.10.d

in paragraph (d) (other cases), for “£101” substitute  “£111” .

324.11

The amendments made by this section have effect in relation to licences taken
out on or after 1 April 2023.

##### Reform of HGV road user levy

325

Schedule 22  makes provision (including consequential provision) about—

325.a

the charging of HGV road user levy in respect of UK-registered and non-UK
registered heavy goods vehicles,

325.b

the register of HGV road user levy paid or due to be paid, and

325.c

the rate of HGV road user levy chargeable in respect of a heavy goods vehicle
by reference to the vehicle’s revenue weight.

##### End of exempt period for HGV road user levy

326

326.1

In section 88 of FA 2020 (HGV road user levy)—

326.1.a

in the heading, at the end insert  “: exempt period” ;

326.1.b

in subsection (1), at the beginning insert  “Subject to section 88A,” ;

326.1.c

in subsection (3), at the beginning insert  “For the purposes of this section
and  section 88A ,” .

326.2

After that section insert—

########### HGV road user levy: transitional provision for end of exempt period

326.2.88A

326.2.88A.1

This section applies where—

326.2.88A.1.a

a UK heavy goods vehicle (the “charged vehicle”) is charged to vehicle excise
duty in respect of more than one period (a “charged period”) beginning within
the last 12 months of the exempt period, and

326.2.88A.1.b

the combined length of the charged periods is more than 12 months.

326.2.88A.2

Section 5(2) of the 2013 Act applies in relation to the charged vehicle in
respect of each complete month in the period (the “transitional liability
period”)—

326.2.88A.2.a

beginning with the day after the last exempt day in relation to the charged
vehicle, and

326.2.88A.2.b

ending with the end of the charged period during which that last exempt day
occurs.

326.2.88A.3

The last exempt day, in relation to a charged vehicle, is the last day of the
period of 12 months beginning with the day on which the first charged period
beginning within the last 12 months of the exempt period began.

326.2.88A.4

Subsection (5)  applies where, in relation to the charged vehicle—

326.2.88A.4.a

a notification has been made under section 7(2)(c) of the 2013 Act (an “off-
road notification”) in respect of a period beginning within the last 12 months
of the exempt period, and

326.2.88A.4.b

vehicle excise duty is charged in respect of a period beginning—

326.2.88A.4.b.i

after the day on which the off-road notification is made, and

326.2.88A.4.b.ii

within the last 12 months of the exempt period.

326.2.88A.5

In calculating the period of 12 months mentioned in  subsection (3)  ignore
the number of whole months in the period beginning with the day on which the
off-road notification is made and ending with the first day of the period
described in  subsection (4) (b) .

326.2.88A.6

The Secretary of State, and any person who may exercise powers on behalf of
the Secretary of State under section 9 of the 2013 Act (collection of levy),
may (in addition to having the powers, duties and liabilities mentioned in
that section) give a notice (a “payment notice”) to a person liable for HGV
road user levy in respect of a transitional liability period.

326.2.88A.7

A payment notice must state—

326.2.88A.7.a

the amount of HGV road user levy for which the person is liable in respect of
the transitional liability period,

326.2.88A.7.b

how the amount is to be paid, and

326.2.88A.7.c

that payment must be made within the period of 28 days beginning with the day
on which the notice is given.

326.2.88A.8

The amount in  subsection (7) (a)  is given by—

L × M 12       where—         L is the yearly rate of HGV road user levy
applicable in relation to the vehicle on the first day of the transitional
liability period, and           M is the number of whole months during the
transitional liability period.

326.2.88A.9

In relation to the transitional liability period—

326.2.88A.9.a

a person commits an offence under section 11 of the 2013 Act (offence of using
or keeping heavy goods vehicle if levy not paid) only if the person—

326.2.88A.9.a.i

has been given a payment notice, and

326.2.88A.9.a.ii

has failed to make payment in accordance with that notice, and

326.2.88A.9.b

section 7(5A) of the Vehicle Excise and Registration Act 1994 has effect as if
the reference to HGV road user levy having been paid were a reference to it
having been paid in accordance with a payment notice.

326.2.88A.10

In this section “ UK heavy goods vehicle ” has the same meaning as in the HGV
Road User Levy Act 2013 (see section 2 of that Act).

#### Environmental taxes

##### Rates of landfill tax

327

327.1

Section 42 of FA 1996 (amount of landfill tax) is amended as follows.

327.2

In subsection (1)(a) (standard rate), for “£98.60” substitute  “£102.10” .

327.3

In subsection (2) (reduced rate for certain disposals), in the words after
paragraph (b)—

327.3.a

for “£98.60” substitute  “£102.10” , and

327.3.b

for “£3.15” substitute  “£3.25” .

327.4

The amendments made by this section have effect in relation to disposals made
(or treated as made) on or after 1 April 2023.

##### Rates of climate change levy

328

328.1

Paragraph 42 of Schedule 6 to FA 2000 (climate change levy: amount payable by
way of levy) is amended as follows.

328.2

In sub-paragraph (1), for the table substitute—

                                      TABLE
Taxable commodity supplied Rate at which levy payable if supply is not a
reduced-rate supply                                          Electricity
£0.00775 per kilowatt hour Gas supplied by a gas utility or any gas supplied
in a gaseous state that is of a kind supplied by a gas utility £0.00775 per
kilowatt hour Any petroleum gas, or other gaseous hydrocarbon, supplied in a
liquid state £0.02175 per kilogram Any other taxable commodity £0.06064 per
kilogram

328.3

In sub-paragraph (1)(c) (reduced-rate supplies in respect of any taxable
commodity other than electricity or petroleum gas, or other gaseous
hydrocarbon, supplied in a liquid state), for “12” substitute  “11” .

328.4

In consequence of the amendment made by subsection  (3) , in the definition of
“r” in the Notes to paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 to the Climate Change Levy
(General) Regulations 2001 ( S.I. 2001/838 ), for “0.88” substitute  “0.89” .

328.5

The amendments made by this section have effect in relation to supplies
treated as taking place on or after 1 April 2024.

##### Rate of plastic packaging tax

329

329.1

In section 45(1) of FA 2021 (rate of plastic packaging tax), for “£200”
substitute  “£210.82” .

329.2

The amendment made by this section has effect in relation to packaging
components produced in, or imported into, the United Kingdom on or after 1
April 2023.

##### Aggregates levy: exemptions and exploitation

330

330.1

Part 2 of FA 2001 (aggregates levy) is amended as follows.

330.2

In section 17 (meanings of “aggregate” and “taxable aggregate”)—

330.2.a

in subsection (3)—

330.2.a.i

omit paragraphs (b), (d) and (da);

330.2.a.ii

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (e);

330.2.a.iii

after paragraph (f) insert

; or

330.2.a.iii.g

it consists wholly of aggregate won by being removed from the ground on the
site of any or any proposed structure, or the site of any or any proposed
infrastructure relating to transportation or utilities, in the course of
excavations lawfully carried out—

330.2.a.iii.g.i

in connection with, and necessary for, the construction, modification,
maintenance or improvement of the structure or infrastructure, and

330.2.a.iii.g.ii

not for the purpose of extracting that aggregate.

;

330.2.b

in subsection (4) omit paragraph (e);

330.2.c

in subsection (7) omit the definition of “highway”.

330.3

In section 19 (commercial exploitation)—

330.3.a

in subsection (3), in paragraph (e), for “site from which it was won”
substitute  “original site by virtue of it being used for a purpose connected
with winning aggregate or other minerals from the site” ;

330.3.b

after subsection (3A) insert—

330.3.b.3B

For the purposes of subsection (3)(e), in relation to a quantity of aggregate,
“ the original site ” means the site from which it was won.

;

330.3.c

for subsection (4) substitute—

330.3.c.4

Subsection (4A)  applies where, at the time when any aggregate is won from any
site, a person (“ P ”) is in occupation for relevant purposes of—

330.3.c.4.a

that site, or

330.3.c.4.b

that site and other land.

330.3.c.4A

Where this subsection applies, so long as the site mentioned in  subsection
(4) , or that site and the other land, continue to be occupied by P for
relevant purposes, subsection (3)(e) has effect as if—

330.3.c.4A.a

(where relevant) the reference to the land at the original site included the
other land, and

330.3.c.4A.b

the words “by virtue of it being used for a purpose connected with winning
aggregate or other minerals from the site” were omitted.

330.3.c.4B

For the purposes of subsections  (4)  and  (4A)  relevant purposes are—

330.3.c.4B.a

the purposes of the carrying on of any agricultural business, or

330.3.c.4B.b

the purposes of the carrying on of any forestry business or otherwise for the
purposes of forestry.

330.4

In consequence of the amendments made by subsection (2), in the Aggregates
Levy (Registration and Miscellaneous Provisions) Regulations 2001 ( S.I. 2001/
4027 ), in regulation 3 (unconditional exemption from registration), in
paragraph (a)—

330.4.a

in sub-paragraph (i), for “(b), (c), (d) or (da)” substitute  “(c) or  (g) ” ;

330.4.b

in sub-paragraph (ii), for “(c), (d) or (e)” substitute  “(c) or (d)” .

330.5

The amendments made by this section have effect in relation to aggregate won
on or after 1 October 2023.

### Miscellaneous and final

#### Freeports and investment zones

##### Designation of sites

331

331.1

Section 113 of FA 2021 (designation of freeport tax sites) is amended as
follows.

331.2

In subsection (2)(a) and (b), after “a freeport” insert  “or an investment
zone” .

331.3

In subsection (3), for “a “freeport tax site”” substitute  “a “special tax
site”” .

331.4

For subsection (5) substitute—

331.4.5

For the purposes of this section any reference to a freeport or an investment
zone is to an area which is identified as such in a document published by, or
with the consent of, the Treasury for the purposes of this section (and not
withdrawn).

331.5

Schedule 23  makes amendments in consequence of the provision made by this
section.

##### Sunset date for reliefs

332

332.1

In section 61A of FA 2003 (relief from stamp duty land tax in case of
transactions relating to land in designated sites), in subsection (3), for “30
September 2026” substitute  “the applicable sunset date in relation to the
special tax site concerned (as to which see  section 332 (4)  and  (5)  of the
Finance (No.2) Act 2023)” .

332.2

In section 45O of CAA 2001 (enhanced capital allowances in case of expenditure
on plant or machinery for use in designated sites), in subsection (5), for “30
September 2026” substitute  “the applicable sunset date in relation to the
special tax site concerned (as to which see  section 332 (4)  and  (5)  of
F(No.2)A 2023)” .

332.3

In Chapter 2A of Part 2A of CAA 2001 (enhanced structures and building
allowances in case of buildings or structures in designated sites)—

332.3.a

in section 270BNA—

332.3.a.i

in subsection (3)(b), for “30 September 2026” substitute  “the applicable
sunset date in relation to the special tax site concerned (as to which see
section 332 (4)  and  (5)  of F(No.2)A 2023)” , and

332.3.a.ii

in subsection (4)(b), for “30 September 2026” substitute  “the applicable
sunset date in relation to the special tax site concerned” , and

332.3.b

in section 270BNB(3), for “30 September 2026” substitute  “the applicable
sunset date in relation to the special tax site concerned” .

332.4

For the purposes of section 61A of FA 2003 and sections 45O, 270BNA and 270BNB
of CAA 2001 (“ the sunset provisions ”), the applicable sunset date in
relation to a special tax site is—

332.4.a

30 September 2026, or

332.4.b

such later date as may be specified in relation to the site by regulations
made by the Treasury.

332.5

The regulations—

332.5.a

may specify different dates for different descriptions of special tax sites,
and

332.5.b

may amend the sunset provisions.

332.6

Schedule 23  makes amendments in consequence of the provision made by  this
section .

#### Administration

##### Right to repayment of income tax to be inalienable

333

333.1

A right of an individual to a repayment of income tax from HMRC may not be
assigned.

333.2

Every assignment of a right of an individual to a repayment of income tax from
HMRC, and every agreement to assign any such right, is void.

333.3

Subsection  (2)  has effect in relation to assignments and agreements to
assign of which HMRC receives notice on or after 15 March 2023.

333.4

In the application of this section to Scotland the reference to assignment of
a right is to be read as a reference to assignation, “assign” being construed
accordingly.

333.5

In this section “ HMRC ” means His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs.

##### Late payment interest on value added tax

334

334.1

In the Finance Act 2009, Sections 101 and 102 (Value Added Tax) (Late Payment
Interest and Repayment Interest) (Exceptions and Consequential Amendments)
Order 2022 ( S.I. 2022/1298 ), in Part 2 (exceptions), before article 2
insert—

########### Exception from section 101 of the Finance Act 2009 - late payment interest

334.1.1A

334.1.1A.1

Section 101 of the Finance Act 2009 (late payment interest on sums due to
HMRC) does not apply to annual accounting scheme instalments.

334.1.1A.2

In paragraph (1) “ annual accounting scheme instalment ” means an amount
payable to HMRC by virtue of regulation 50(2)(a) of the VAT Regulations.

334.2

In Part 2 of Schedule 53 to FA 2009 (late payment interest start date), after
paragraph 11 insert—

########### VAT due after excess payment or credit from HMRC

334.2.11ZA

334.2.11ZA.1

This paragraph applies to any amount of value added tax which is due and
recoverable from a person by virtue of—

334.2.11ZA.1.a

section 73(9) of VATA 1994, in relation to an amount assessed and notified to
the person under subsection (2) of that section, or

334.2.11ZA.1.b

section 80C(1) of that Act.

334.2.11ZA.2

The late payment interest start date in respect of that amount is the date on
which HMRC paid or credited that amount to the person.

334.3

Where, ignoring this subsection, the late payment interest start date in
respect of an amount would, by virtue of paragraph 11ZA of Schedule 53 to FA
2009 (inserted by subsection  (2) ), be a date before 15 March 2023, the late
payment interest start date in respect of that amount is instead 15 March
2023.

334.4

The amendment made by subsection  (1)  is treated as having been made under
section 101(2)(c) of FA 2009 (power to specify descriptions of amounts payable
to HMRC that are not subject to late payment interest).

334.5

This section is treated as having come into force on 15 March 2023.

##### Penalties for failure to pay value added tax

335

335.1

Paragraph 1 of Schedule 26 to FA 2021 (penalties for failure to pay tax) is
amended in accordance with subsections  (2)  to  (4) .

335.2

The existing text becomes sub-paragraph (1).

335.3

In the table in that sub-paragraph relating to value added tax—

335.3.a

in item 1, in the second column, for “(except an amount within item 2, 3, 4 or
5)” substitute  “except an amount within item 3, 4 or 5, or that is an annual
accounting scheme instalment” ;

335.3.b

omit item 2.

335.4

After that sub-paragraph insert—

335.4.2

In the table relating to value added tax,  “annual accounting scheme
instalment”  means an amount payable to HMRC by virtue of regulation 50(2)(a)
of the Value Added Tax Regulations 1995 ( S.I. 1995/2518 ).

335.5

The amendments made by this section are treated as always having had effect.

##### VAT credits: repayment interest due where evidence not provided

336

336.1

Paragraph 12E of Schedule 54 to FA 2009 (special provision as to amounts
carrying repayment interest etc) is amended as follows.

336.2

In sub-paragraph (1), in paragraph (b)—

336.2.a

for “4(1) or (1A)” substitute  “4(1A)” ;

336.2.b

omit “production of evidence and”.

336.3

In sub-paragraph (2)—

336.3.a

in paragraph (a) omit “production of evidence or”;

336.3.b

in paragraph (b) omit “the required evidence or”.

336.4

The amendments made by this section are to be treated as having come into
force immediately after the coming into force of Schedule 29 to FA 2021 in
accordance with regulation 2(2)(a) of The Finance Act 2009, Finance (No. 3)
Act 2010 and Finance Act 2021 (Value Added Tax) (Interest) (Appointed Days)
Regulations 2022 ( S.I. 2022/1277 ).

##### Insurance premium tax: power to make regulations about notifications

337

In Part 3 of FA 1994 (insurance premium tax), in section 74 (orders and
regulations)—

337.a

after subsection (6) insert—

337.a.6A

Regulations under this Part making provision as to the form and manner in
which a notification is to be made, or as to the information to be contained
in or provided with a notification, may make such provision by reference to a
notice published by the Commissioners from time to time.

;

337.b

in subsection (9), for “(7) and” substitute  “(6A) to” .

##### Penalties for failure to make payments of plastic packaging tax on time

338

338.1

Schedule 56 to FA 2009 (penalty for failure to make payments on time) is
amended as follows—

338.1.a

in paragraph 3(1), after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

338.1.a.aza

a payment of tax falling within items 11AA or 11AB in the Table,

;

338.1.b

in paragraph 8A(1), for “and 11A to” substitute  “, 11A and 11B to” .

338.2

The amendments made by this section have effect in relation to amounts of
plastic packaging tax payable in respect of accounting periods commencing on
or after 1 April 2023.

#### Management of customs and excise

##### Approval of aerodromes

339

339.1

CEMA 1979 is amended as follows.

339.2

After section 20(A) insert—

########### Approval of aerodromes

339.2.20B

339.2.20B.1

The Commissioners may approve an aerodrome for the purposes of the customs and
excise Acts.

339.2.20B.2

In any case where they consider it would facilitate the administration,
collection or enforcement of any duty of customs, the Commissioners may by
regulations—

339.2.20B.2.a

specify conditions which must be met before an approval is granted, or

339.2.20B.2.b

specify other conditions which they may, in any particular case, require to be
met before an approval is granted.

339.2.20B.3

In any other case, an approval has effect subject to such conditions and
restrictions as the Commissioners think fit.

339.2.20B.4

The Commissioners may at any time for reasonable cause revoke or vary the
terms of an approval.

339.2.20B.5

This section does not apply in relation to an aerodrome which is a customs and
excise airport.

.

339.3

Section 21 (control of movement of aircraft, etc into and out of the United
Kingdom) is amended in accordance with subsections (4) to (7).

339.4

In each of subsections (1), (2), (3)(a) and (b) and (4), for “customs and
excise airport”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “regulated aerodrome” .

339.5

After subsection (5) insert—

339.5.5A

A person in control of an unregulated aerodrome must take reasonable steps to
secure that no aircraft lands at, or departs from, the aerodrome in
circumstances in which there would be a contravention of any of subsections
(1) to (3).

339.6

In subsection (6), for “this section” substitute  “subsections (1) to (4)” .

339.7

After subsection (6) insert—

339.7.6A

For the purposes of this Act each of the following is a “regulated aerodrome”—

339.7.6A.a

a customs and excise airport, and

339.7.6A.b

an aerodrome approved under section 20B,

(and any other aerodrome is an “unregulated aerodrome”).

.

339.8

In section 22 (approval of examination stations at customs and excise
airports)—

339.8.a

in the heading, for “customs and excise airports” substitute  “regulated
aerodromes” ;

339.8.b

in subsection (1), for “customs and excise airport” substitute  “regulated
aerodrome” .

339.9

In section 22A (examination stations), in each of subsections (1)(a), (1A) and
(2), for “customs and excise airport” substitute  “regulated aerodrome” .

##### Approved aerodromes: minor and consequential amendments

340

340.1

CEMA 1979 is amended in accordance with subsections (2) to (4).

340.2

In section 1 (interpretation), in subsection (1), insert at the appropriate
place—

                                             “ regulated aerodrome ” has the
meaning given by section 21(6A);

.

340.3

In each of the following provisions, for “customs and excise airport”
substitute  “regulated aerodrome” —

340.3.a

in section 5(5) (time of importation, exportation, etc);

340.3.b

in section 23(1)(a) (control of movement of hovercraft);

340.3.c

in section 30(1)(a) and (b) (control of movement of uncleared goods within or
between port or airport and other places);

340.3.d

in section 34(1)(a) and (b) (power to prevent flight of aircraft or departure
of railway vehicles);

340.3.e

in section 42(1)(a) (power to regulate unloading, removal, etc of imported
goods);

340.3.f

in section 164(4)(d) (power to search persons).

340.4

In section 172 (regulations), in subsection (3), after “20,” insert  “20B,” .

340.5

In Schedule 5 to FA 1994 (decisions subject to review and appeal), in
paragraph 2(1)—

340.5.a

in paragraph (a)—

340.5.a.i

for “section 20, 22 or 25 (approved wharf, examination station or temporary
storage facility)” substitute  “section 20, 20B, 22 or 25 (approved wharf,
approved aerodrome, examination station or temporary storage facility)” ;

340.5.a.ii

after “subsection (1A)(a) of section 20, 22 or 25” insert  “, or subsection
(2)(a) of section 20B,” ;

340.5.a.iii

for “subsection (1A)(b) of that section” substitute  “subsection (1A)(b) of
section 20, 22 or 25 or subsection (2)(b) of section 20B” ;

340.5.b

after paragraph (a) insert—

340.5.b.aa

any decision as to whether or not approval of an aerodrome under section 20B
is to be given or withdrawn, or as to the conditions or restrictions under
section 20B(3) subject to which any such approval is given;

.

340.6

In section 26 of FA 2003 (penalty for contravention of a relevant rule), in
subsection (5A), after “section 20(1A),” insert  “20B(2),” .

340.7

In section 18 of the Customs and Excise Duties (General Reliefs) Act 1979
(interpretation), in the list of expressions in subsection (2), omit—

                                             “ customs and excise airport ”

.

##### Temporary approvals etc

341

341.1

Section 16B of FA 1994 (temporary approvals etc pending review or appeal:
process) is amended as follows.

341.2

In subsection (3), for paragraph (b) substitute—

341.2.b

expires—

341.2.b.i

on the expiry day determined in accordance with subsection (4), or

341.2.b.ii

if HMRC are satisfied that it is appropriate in all the circumstances, on a
later day determined by HMRC, and

.

341.3

In subsection (4), for “The day on which a temporary approval expires is”
substitute  “For the purposes of subsection (3)(b)(i), the expiry day in
relation to a temporary approval is” .

#### Conditionality

##### Licensing authorities: requirements to give or obtain tax information

342

342.1

Schedule 33 to FA 2021 (licensing authorities: requirements to give or obtain
tax information) is amended as follows.

342.2

The table in paragraph 1(2) is amended in accordance with subsections (3) to
(8).

342.3

After the entry for a licence under section 51 of LG(MP)A 1976 insert—

 A taxi driver’s licence (including a temporary licence) under section 13 of
CG(S)A 1982 Driving a taxi (Scotland) A licensing authority (within the
meaning of CG(S)A 1982) 1 A private hire car driver’s licence (including a
temporary licence) under section 13 of CG(S)A 1982 Driving a private hire car
(Scotland) A licensing authority (within the meaning of CG(S)A 1982) 1

342.4

After the entry for a licence under section 13 of PHV(L)A 1998 insert—

 A licence under section 23 of TA(NI) 2008 Driving a taxi (Northern Ireland)
The Department for Infrastructure in Northern Ireland 1

342.5

After the entry for a licence under section 55 of LG(MP)A 1976 insert—

 A licence (including a temporary licence) under Part 1 of CG(S)A 1982 for the
activity specified in article 2(2) of LBOO 2009 Use of premises as booking
office for taxis or private hire cars (Scotland) A licensing authority (within
the meaning of CG(S)A 1982) 2

342.6

After the entry for a licence under section 3 of PHV(L)A 1998 insert—

 A metal dealer’s licence (including a temporary licence) under section 28 of
CG(S)A 1982 Carrying on business as a metal dealer (Scotland) A licensing
authority (within the meaning of CG(S)A 1982) 3

342.7

After the entry for a site licence under SMDA 2013 insert—

 An itinerant metal dealer’s licence (including a temporary licence) under
section 32 of CG(S)A 1982 Carrying on business as an itinerant metal dealer
(Scotland) A licensing authority (within the meaning of CG(S)A 1982) 4

342.8

At the end of the second column of each of the following entries insert
“(England and Wales)” —

342.8.a

the entry for a licence under section 46 of TPCA 1847;

342.8.b

the entry for a licence under section 51 of LG(MP)A 1976;

342.8.c

the entry for a licence under section 55 of LG(MP)A 1976;

342.8.d

the entry for a site licence under SMDA 2013;

342.8.e

the entry for a collector’s licence under SMDA 2013.

342.9

In paragraph 1(3), at the appropriate places, insert the following
definitions—

                                             “ CG(S)A 1982 ” means the Civic
Government (Scotland) Act 1982;

                                             “ LBOO 2009 ” means the Civic
Government (Scotland) Act 1982 (Licensing of Booking Offices) Order 2009 (
S.S.I. 2009/145 );

                                             “ TA(NI) 2008 ” means the  Taxis
Act (Northern Ireland) 2008 (c. 4 (N.I.)) ;

342.10

The amendments made by this section have effect in relation to applications
made on or after 2 October 2023.

##### Section 

343

343.1

The Civic Government (Scotland) Act 1982 is amended as follows.

343.2

In section 3 (discharge of functions of licensing authorities)—

343.2.a

in subsection (1)(a), for “date on which the application was made” substitute
“relevant date” ;

343.2.b

after subsection (1) insert—

343.2.b.1A

In subsection (1) “ the relevant date ” means—

343.2.b.1A.a

the date on which the application is made, or

343.2.b.1A.b

if, on that date, the licensing authority is prevented from considering the
application by paragraph 2(2) or 3(2) of Schedule 33 to the Finance Act 2021
(which contain requirements to be complied with before applications may be
considered), the date on which the licensing authority ceases to be so
prevented.

343.3

Paragraph 7 of Schedule 1 (temporary licenses) is amended in accordance with
subsections  (4)  and  (5) .

343.4

In sub-paragraph (6), before paragraph (a) insert—

343.4.za

where—

343.4.za.i

at any time after the application for the licence under paragraph 1 is made,
the licensing authority requests the applicant to give it further information
for the purpose of enabling it to make a request, or make a further request,
under paragraph 3(2)(a) of Schedule 33 to the Finance Act 2021 (request for
confirmation of completed tax check) in relation to the application, and

343.4.za.ii

at the end of the relevant period, the licensing authority continues to be
prevented from considering the application by paragraph 3(2) of that Schedule
to that Act,

the end of the relevant period; or

.

343.5

After sub-paragraph (6) insert—

343.5.6A

In sub-paragraph (6) (za)  “ the relevant period ” means—

343.5.6A.a

the period of 7 days beginning with the day on which the request under sub-
paragraph (6) (za) (i)  is made, or

343.5.6A.b

if the final day of that period is earlier than the day on which (disregarding
sub-paragraph (6)) the temporary licence expires, the period ending with that
later day.

343.6

Paragraph 8 of Schedule 1 (duration of licences) is amended in accordance with
subsections  (7)  and  (8) .

343.7

In sub-paragraph (6), before paragraph (a) insert—

343.7.za

where—

343.7.za.i

at any time after the application is made, the licensing authority requests
the applicant to give it further information for the purpose of enabling it to
make a request, or make a further request, under paragraph 3(2)(a) of Schedule
33 to the Finance Act 2021 (request for confirmation of completed tax check)
in relation to the application, and

343.7.za.ii

at the end of the relevant period, the licensing authority continues to be
prevented from considering the application by paragraph 3(2) of that Schedule
to that Act,

the end of the relevant period; or

.

343.8

After sub-paragraph (6) insert—

343.8.6A

In sub-paragraph (6) (za)  “ the relevant period ” means—

343.8.6A.a

the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which the request under sub-
paragraph (6) (za) (i)  is made, or

343.8.6A.b

if the final day of that period is earlier than the day on which (disregarding
sub-paragraphs (4) and (5)) the licence expires, the period ending with that
later day.

#### Charities and community amateur sports clubs

##### Definition of “charity” restricted to UK charities

344

344.1

In Part 1 of Schedule 6 to FA 2010 (definition of “charity” etc), in paragraph
2 (jurisdiction condition)—

344.1.a

in sub-paragraph (1) omit paragraph (b) (and the “or” before it);

344.1.b

omit sub-paragraphs (3) to (5).

344.2

In relation to a body of persons or trust that has asserted its status as a
charity, the amendments made by this section have effect—

344.2.a

for the purposes of income tax, for the tax year 2024-25 and subsequent tax
years;

344.2.b

for the purposes of capital gains tax, in relation to disposals made on or
after 6 April 2024;

344.2.c

for the purposes of corporation tax, in relation to accounting periods
beginning on or after 1 April 2024;

344.2.d

for the purposes of value added tax, in relation to supplies made, and
acquisitions and importations taking place, on or after 1 April 2024;

344.2.e

for the purposes of inheritance tax, in relation to transfers of value made on
or after 1 April 2024;

344.2.f

for the purposes of stamp duty, in relation to any instrument executed on or
after 1 April 2024;

344.2.g

for the purposes of stamp duty land tax, in relation to any land transaction
the effective date of which is on or after 1 April 2024;

344.2.h

for the purposes of stamp duty reserve tax, in relation to any agreement to
transfer securities in respect of which the relevant day (within the meaning
of section 87(2) of FA 1986) is or is after 1 April 2024;

344.2.i

for the purposes of annual tax on enveloped dwellings, for the chargeable
period beginning with 1 April 2024 and subsequent chargeable periods;

344.2.j

for the purposes of diverted profits tax, in relation to accounting periods
beginning on or after 1 April 2024.

344.3

Notwithstanding subsection  (2) (g) , the amendments made by this section do
not have effect for the purposes of stamp duty land tax in relation to a
transaction entered into by a body of persons or trust that has asserted its
status as a charity if—

344.3.a

the transaction is effected in pursuance of a contract entered into and
substantially performed before 1 April 2024, or

344.3.b

the transaction—

344.3.b.i

is effected in pursuance of a contract entered into before 15 March 2023, and

344.3.b.ii

is not excluded for the purposes of this paragraph by subsection  (6) .

344.4

In relation to a body of persons or trust that has not asserted its status as
a charity, the amendments made by this section have effect—

344.4.a

for the purposes of income tax—

344.4.a.i

for the tax year 2022-23 so far as it falls on or after 15 March 2023, and

344.4.a.ii

for subsequent tax years;

344.4.b

for the purposes of capital gains tax, in relation to disposals made on or
after 15 March 2023;

344.4.c

for the purposes of corporation tax, in relation to accounting periods
beginning on or after 15 March 2023;

344.4.d

for the purposes of value added tax, in relation to supplies made, and
acquisitions and importations taking place, on or after 15 March 2023;

344.4.e

for the purposes of inheritance tax, in relation to transfers of value made on
or after 15 March 2023;

344.4.f

for the purposes of stamp duty, in relation to any instrument executed on or
after 15 March 2023;

344.4.g

for the purposes of stamp duty land tax, in relation to any land transaction
the effective date of which is on or after 15 March 2023;

344.4.h

for the purposes of stamp duty reserve tax, in relation to any agreement to
transfer securities in respect of which the relevant day (within the meaning
of section 87(2) of FA 1986) is or is after 15 March 2023;

344.4.i

for the purposes of annual tax on enveloped dwellings—

344.4.i.i

for the chargeable period beginning with 1 April 2022 so far as it falls on or
after 15 March 2023, and

344.4.i.ii

for subsequent chargeable periods;

344.4.j

for the purposes of diverted profits tax, in relation to accounting periods
beginning on or after 15 March 2023.

344.5

Notwithstanding subsection  (4) (g) , the amendments made by this section do
not have effect for the purposes of stamp duty land tax in relation to a
transaction entered into by a body of persons or trust that has not asserted
its status as a charity if—

344.5.a

the transaction is effected in pursuance of a contract entered into and
substantially performed before 15 March 2023, or

344.5.b

the transaction—

344.5.b.i

is effected in pursuance of a contract entered into before that date, and

344.5.b.ii

is not excluded for the purposes of this paragraph by subsection  (6) .

344.6

A transaction is excluded for the purposes of subsection  (3) (b)  or  (5) (b)
if—

344.6.a

there is any variation of the contract, or assignment of rights under the
contract, on or after 15 March 2023,

344.6.b

the transaction is effected in consequence of the exercise on or after that
date of any option, right of pre-emption or similar right, or

344.6.c

on or after that date there is an assignment, subsale or other transaction
relating to the whole or part of the subject-matter of the contract as a
result of which a person other than the purchaser under the contract becomes
entitled to call for a conveyance.

344.7

If a company has an accounting period (“the straddling accounting period”)
that begins before a commencement date and ends on or after that date—

344.7.a

the part of the straddling accounting period that falls before that date, and

344.7.b

the part of the straddling accounting period that falls on or after that date,

are to be treated for relevant purposes as separate accounting periods.

344.8

In subsection  (7) —

                                    “ commencement date ” means the date
mentioned in subsection  (2) (c)  or  (4) (c) ;
“ relevant purposes ” means the purposes of determining the company’s
liability to any charge to a tax mentioned in subsection  (2)  or  (4) , or
eligibility for any relief relating to such a tax, that is affected by the
company’s status as a charity.

344.9

An apportionment to different periods which falls to be made as a result of
subsection  (4) (a) (i)  or  (i) (i)  is to be made on a time basis according
to the respective length of the periods.

For the corresponding rule applying to apportionments falling to be made as a
result of subsection  (7) , see section 1172 of CTA 2010.

344.10

For the purposes of this section a body of persons or trust has “asserted its
status as a charity” if—

344.10.a

immediately before 15 March 2023 it falls within the definition of “charity”
in Part 1 of Schedule 6 to FA 2010, and

344.10.b

at any time before that date, it has (under any enactment) made a valid claim
to His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs in reliance on its status as a charity.

344.11

The amendments made by this section are to be ignored in determining—

344.11.a

whether a person who, immediately before 15 March 2023, owns one or more
shares forming the ordinary share capital of a UK REIT is, at any later time,
an institutional investor in relation to those shares;

344.11.b

whether a person who, immediately before 15 March 2023, is a unit holder in an
exempt unauthorised unit trust is, at any later time, an eligible investor in
relation to those units;

344.11.c

whether a person who, immediately before 15 March 2023, holds a relevant
interest in—

344.11.c.i

a QAHC, or

344.11.c.ii

a company that has made an entry notification,

is, at any later time, a relevant qualifying investor in relation to that
interest.

344.12

In subsection  (11) —

344.12.a

expressions used in paragraph  (a)  have the same meaning as in Part 12 of CTA
2010 (real estate investment trusts);

344.12.b

expressions used in paragraph  (b)  have the same meaning as in the
Unauthorised Unit Trusts (Tax) Regulations 2013 ( S.I. 2013/2819 );

344.12.c

expressions used in paragraph  (c) , have the same meaning as in Schedule 2 to
FA 2022 (qualifying asset holding companies).

344.13

The following regulations were made under a power contained in paragraph 2(3)
to (5) of Schedule 6 to FA 2010 and are therefore revoked by virtue of
subsection  (1) (b) —

344.13.a

the Taxes (Definition of Charity) (Relevant Territories) Regulations 2010 (
S.I. 2010/1904 );

344.13.b

the Taxes (Definition of Charity) (Relevant Territories) (Amendment)
Regulations 2014 ( S.I. 2014/1807 ).

##### Definition of “community amateur sports club” restricted to UK clubs

345

345.1

In section 661A of CTA 2010 (community amateur sports clubs: the location
condition)—

345.1.a

in subsection (1)—

345.1.a.i

in paragraph (a), omit “or a relevant territory”;

345.1.a.ii

in paragraph (b), omit “or are all located in a single relevant territory”;

345.1.b

omit subsection (2).

345.2

In relation to a club that has asserted its status as a CASC, the amendments
made by this section have effect in relation to accounting periods beginning
on or after 1 April 2024.

345.3

In relation to a club that has not asserted its status as a CASC, the
amendments made by this section have effect in relation to accounting periods
beginning on or after 15 March 2023.

345.4

If a club has an accounting period (“the straddling accounting period”) that
begins before a commencement date and ends on or after that date—

345.4.a

the part of the straddling accounting period that falls before that date, and

345.4.b

the part of the straddling accounting period that falls on or after that date,

are to be treated for relevant purposes as separate accounting periods.

345.5

In subsection  (4) —

                                    “ commencement date ” means the date
mentioned in subsection  (2)  or  (3) ;
“ relevant purposes ” means the purposes of determining the club’s liability
to any charge to tax, or eligibility for any tax relief, that is affected by
the club’s status as a CASC.

345.6

For the purposes of this section a club has “asserted its status as a CASC”
if, immediately before 15 March 2023—

345.6.a

it is registered as a community amateur sports club under section 658 of CTA
2010, or

345.6.b

it is not so registered but is entitled to be so in accordance with that
section and has made an application for registration under subsection (2) of
that section.

#### Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme

##### Exemptions from tax

346

346.1

Schedule 24  makes provision about the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme in
relation to—

346.1.a

income tax

346.1.b

corporation tax;

346.1.c

annual tax on enveloped dwellings;

346.1.d

stamp duty land tax.

346.2

In  this section  and in  Schedule 24 , “ the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship
Scheme ” means the scheme contained in paragraphs UKR 11.1 to UKR 20.2 of
Appendix Ukraine Scheme to the immigration rules (within the meaning of the
Immigration Act 1971).

#### Office of Tax Simplification

##### Abolition of the Office of Tax Simplification

347

347.1

The Office of Tax Simplification is abolished.

347.2

The amendments in  subsections (3)  to  (8)  are made in consequence of
subsection (1) .

347.3

In the House of Commons Disqualification Act 1975, in Part 2 of Schedule 1
(bodies of which all members are disqualified) omit the entry for the Office
of Tax Simplification.

347.4

In the Northern Ireland Assembly Disqualification Act 1975, in Part 2 of
Schedule 1 (bodies of which all members are disqualified) omit the entry for
the Office of Tax Simplification.

347.5

In the Freedom of Information Act 2000, in Part 6 of Schedule 1 (other public
bodies and offices: general) omit the entry for the Office of Tax
Simplification.

347.6

In the Equality Act 2010, in Part 1 of Schedule 19 (public authorities:
general), under the heading “industry, business, finance etc” omit the entry
for the Office of Tax Simplification.

347.7

In FA 2016 omit Part 12 and Schedule 25 (Office of Tax Simplification).

347.8

In FA 2022 omit section 102 (increase in membership of the OTS) and the italic
heading before it.

#### The dormant assets scheme

##### Pension benefits and inheritance tax

348

348.1

In FA 2004, in Part 4 (pension schemes etc)—

348.1.a

in section 150 (meaning of “ pension scheme ”), in subsection (5A), for “274B”
substitute  “274ZA” ;

348.1.b

in section 251 (information: general requirements), after subsection (5)
insert—

348.1.b.5A

Regulations under this section may make different provision for different
cases.

;

348.1.c

section 274B (National Employment Savings Trust and Master Trust schemes)
(which appears under the italic heading “National Employment Savings Trust and
Master Trust schemes” at the beginning of Chapter 8 and before section 274A)
is renumbered section 274ZA;

348.1.d

after section 274ZA (as renumbered by paragraph (c)) insert—

############# Dormant pension benefits

############## Treatment of pension benefits reclaimed from reclaim fund etc

348.1.d.274ZB

348.1.d.274ZB.1

Subsection (2) applies where an amount is paid out of an authorised reclaim
fund in respect of transferred dormant eligible pension benefits.

348.1.d.274ZB.2

For the purposes of income tax and this Part, the amount paid out is to be
treated as having been paid as a consequence of a right that is the same as
the original rights, acquired as the original rights were acquired and having
the same characteristics as those rights.

348.1.d.274ZB.3

The Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs may make regulations
in relation to cases where—

348.1.d.274ZB.3.a

an amount is paid out of an authorised reclaim fund in respect of transferred
dormant eligible pension benefits,

348.1.d.274ZB.3.b

the registered pension scheme from which the benefits were transferred was
wound up before the payment of that amount, and

348.1.d.274ZB.3.c

the payment, or part of the payment, is treated (by virtue of subsection (2))
as being the payment by a registered pension scheme of—

348.1.d.274ZB.3.c.i

a pension protection lump sum death benefit,

348.1.d.274ZB.3.c.ii

an annuity protection lump sum death benefit,

348.1.d.274ZB.3.c.iii

a drawdown pension fund lump sum death benefit, or

348.1.d.274ZB.3.c.iv

a flexi-access drawdown fund lump sum death benefit.

348.1.d.274ZB.4

Regulations under subsection (3) may provide that a person specified in the
regulations—

348.1.d.274ZB.4.a

is to be treated as the scheme administrator for the purposes of the operation
of section 206;

348.1.d.274ZB.4.b

is responsible for the discharge of all obligations imposed on the scheme
administrator by or under this Part so far as related to the liability imposed
by that section to pay tax in respect of it.

348.1.d.274ZB.5

Regulations under subsection (3) may—

348.1.d.274ZB.5.a

make specific or general provision;

348.1.d.274ZB.5.b

make different provision for different cases.

348.1.d.274ZB.6

No liability to income tax arises in respect of income derived from
investments or deposits—

348.1.d.274ZB.6.a

that are held by an authorised reclaim fund, and

348.1.d.274ZB.6.b

that relate to an amount transferred to the authorised reclaim fund in respect
of transferred dormant eligible pension benefits.

348.1.d.274ZB.7

For the purposes of subsection (6), it does not matter when liability to
income tax on income within that subsection would otherwise arise.

348.1.d.274ZB.8

Subsection (2) of section 186 (income) applies for the purposes of subsection
(6) of this section as it applies for the purposes of subsection (1) of that
section.

348.1.d.274ZB.9

For the purposes of this section—

                                       “ authorised reclaim fund ” has the
same meaning as in the Dormant Assets Acts 2008 to 2022;
“ the original rights ” are a person’s rights against the scheme administrator
of a registered pension scheme, in respect of the benefits subsequently
transferred by the scheme administrator to an authorised reclaim fund,
immediately before the transfer;
“ transferred dormant eligible pension benefits ” means dormant eligible
pensions benefits owing to a person that have been transferred by the scheme
administrator of a registered pension scheme to an authorised reclaim fund
with the result that section 5 of the Dormant Assets Act 2022 (transfer of
eligible pension benefits to reclaim fund) applies (and references to benefits
being transferred are to be construed accordingly).

348.2

In the Inheritance Tax Act 1984, in Chapter 5 of Part 5 (miscellaneous
reliefs), after section 159 insert—

########### Dormant assets

############ Treatment of dormant assets

348.2.159A

348.2.159A.1

This section applies where there is a transfer in respect of a dormant asset.

348.2.159A.2

There is a transfer in respect of a dormant asset where an amount is
transferred by an institution in respect of an asset—

348.2.159A.2.a

to an authorised reclaim fund, with the result that section 1 of the 2008 Act
or section 2, 5, 8, 12 or 14 of the 2022 Act applies in relation to the asset,
or

348.2.159A.2.b

to an authorised reclaim fund and one or more charities, with the result that
section 2 of the 2008 Act applies in relation to the asset.

348.2.159A.3

For the purposes of this Act, rights which a person (“ P ”) acquires under
Part 1 of the 2008 Act or Part 1 or sections 22 to 25 of the 2022 Act (as the
case may be) after the transfer are to be treated as the same asset as the
original rights, acquired as the original rights were acquired and having the
same characteristics as those rights.

348.2.159A.4

For the purposes of this section—

                     “ the 2008 Act ” means the Dormant Bank and Building
Society Accounts Act 2008;
“ the 2022 Act ” means the Dormant Assets Act 2022;
“ asset ” means an asset within the scope of the dormant assets scheme (see
section 1(6) of the 2022 Act);
“ authorised reclaim fund ” has the same meaning as in the Dormant Assets Acts
2008 to 2022;
“ the original rights ” are—
in a case where—
section 8 of the 2022 Act (investment assets) applies in relation to the asset
and there has been a conversion as mentioned in section 9(3)(a) of that Act in
connection with the transfer, or
section 14 of the 2022 Act (securities assets) applies in relation to the
asset and there has been a conversion as mentioned in section 15(1)(a) of that
Act in connection with the transfer,
P’s rights against the institution immediately before that conversion;
in any other case, P’s rights against the institution immediately before the
transfer.

348.3

The amendments made by  subsection (1)  come into force on the day on which
this Act is passed.

348.4

The amendment made by  subsection (2)  is treated as having come into force on
6 June 2022.

#### Other

##### International arrangements for exchanging information

349

349.1

The Treasury may make regulations for, or in connection with, giving effect to
international tax compliance arrangements to any extent, subject to such
exceptions or modifications as the Treasury consider appropriate.

349.2

For the purposes of  this section , “ international tax compliance
arrangements ” means any provision of—

349.2.a

arrangements specified in an Order in Council made under section 173 of FA
2006 (international tax enforcement arrangements);

349.2.b

the agreement reached between the Government of the United Kingdom and the
Government of the United States of America to improve international tax
compliance and to implement the provisions commonly known as the Foreign
Account Tax Compliance Act in the enactment of the United States of America
called the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act, signed on 12 September
2012;

349.2.c

the guidance on country-by-country reporting contained in the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development (“ OECD ”) Guidance on Transfer Pricing
Documentation and Country-by-Country Reporting, published in 2014;

349.2.d

the OECD Standard for Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Information in
Tax Matters, published in 2014;

349.2.e

the OECD Model Mandatory Disclosure Rules for CRS Avoidance Arrangements and
Opaque Offshore Structures, published in 2018;

349.2.f

the OECD Model Rules for Reporting by Platform Operators with respect to
Sellers in the Sharing and Gig Economy, published on 3 July 2020;

349.2.g

any other arrangements or agreements made in relation to any territory or
territories outside the United Kingdom, or documents related to those
arrangements or agreements, which make provision corresponding or similar to
that made by any arrangements, agreement or document mentioned in any of
paragraphs (a)  to  (f) .

349.3

A reference in  subsection (2)  to arrangements, an agreement or another
document includes a reference to the arrangements, agreement or other document
as modified, supplemented or replaced from time to time.

349.4

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may, in particular—

349.4.a

require persons to disclose information of a specified description, including
information about arrangements that they participated in before (as well as
after) the coming into force of this section;

349.4.b

require the information to be disclosed—

349.4.b.i

to HMRC, specified persons or persons of a specified description,

349.4.b.ii

at specified times,

349.4.b.iii

in relation to specified periods of time, and

349.4.b.iv

in a specified form and manner;

349.4.c

impose other obligations on persons in connection with requirements to
disclose information, including obligations to provide information to, and
obtain information from, other specified persons;

349.4.d

provide for the imposition of penalties in respect of a contravention of, or
non-compliance with, a requirement of the regulations, including provision
about appeals in relation to the imposition of a penalty;

349.4.e

provide that a reference in the regulations to any international tax
compliance arrangements is to be read as a reference to those arrangements as
modified, supplemented or replaced from time to time;

(and for the purposes of  this subsection  “ specified ” means specified by or
under the regulations).

349.5

The regulations may—

349.5.a

make different provision for different purposes;

349.5.b

make provision by reference to things specified in a notice published by the
Commissioners (as revised or replaced from time to time) in accordance with
the regulations;

349.5.c

allow any requirement, obligation or other provision that may be imposed or
made by reference to subsection (4)(a) to (c) to be made by specific or
general direction given by the Commissioners;

349.5.d

make provision under which the Commissioners or other persons may exercise
discretions;

349.5.e

make consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional or saving
provision (including provision amending, repealing or revoking an enactment
whenever passed or made).

349.6

For the purposes of subsections (4) and (5)—

                                    “ arrangements ” means any scheme,
transaction or series of transactions;
“ the Commissioners ” means the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and
Customs;
“ HMRC ” means His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs;
“ participate ”, in relation to arrangements, includes being involved in, or
facilitating, the arrangements in any way (for example, by receiving any
benefit from them or by designing, marketing or providing services in
connection with them, or arranging for others to do so).

349.7

The Treasury may by regulations amend the list of international tax compliance
arrangements in  subsection (2)  by—

349.7.a

adding an entry for any arrangements, agreement or document, by or under which
provision is made about the exchange of information;

349.7.b

altering or removing an entry.

349.8

Regulations under  this section  are to be made by statutory instrument.

349.9

A statutory instrument containing (whether alone or with other provision)
regulations made under  subsection (7)  may not be made unless a draft of the
instrument has been laid before, and approved by resolution of, the House of
Commons.

349.10

A statutory instrument containing any other regulations under  this section
is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of the House of Commons.

349.11

The following provisions are repealed—

349.11.a

section 222 of FA 2013;

349.11.b

section 122 of FA 2015;

349.11.c

section 84 of FA 2019;

349.11.d

section 129 of FA 2021.

349.12

Regulations made under any provision listed in  subsection (11)  are to be
treated as if they were made under  this section  (so far as that would not
otherwise be the case).

##### Payment of unclaimed money in court into the Consolidated Fund

350

In section 38(8) of the Administration of Justice Act 1982 (management and
investment of funds in court: rules), after paragraph (f) (but before the
“and” at the end) insert—

350.fa

provide for the payment of a sum of money in court into the Consolidated Fund
if—

350.fa.i

the payment is in respect of funds in court which have been vested in the
Accountant General under subsection (1) for at least 30 years, and

350.fa.ii

the conditions (if any) prescribed by the rules are met.

##### Financial sanctions regulations: prohibition on certain payments by HMRC

351

351.1

HMRC may not, at any time on or after 15 March 2023, make a payment (whether
directly or indirectly) to or for the benefit of a person who is, at that
time, a designated person for the purposes of financial sanctions regulations.

351.2

The reference in subsection (1) to a payment—

351.2.a

is a reference to a payment, including a repayment or refund, that HMRC would
(apart from that subsection) be required or permitted, by or under any
enactment, to make to the person, and

351.2.b

includes a reference to a payment that HMRC would (apart from that subsection)
be required or permitted to make to the person by way of setting off the
amount payable (as a credit) against a liability of the person to pay an
amount to HMRC (as a debit).

351.3

The reference in subsection (1) to a payment being made (directly or
indirectly) to or for the benefit of a person (“ P ”) includes the payment
being made to another person who is owned or controlled (directly or
indirectly) by P.

351.4

Nothing in this section prevents the accrual of interest, in accordance with
any enactment, on a withheld amount.

351.5

But no other supplementary amount is payable by HMRC under section 79(1)
of VATA 1994 (repayment supplement in respect of certain delayed payments or
refunds), or any other enactment, by reference to an amount that is (or was) a
withheld amount not being paid to a person on or before a particular date
(including a date falling before 15 March 2023).

351.6

Provision made by or under section 15 of SAMLA 2018 (exceptions and licences),
and by section 44 of that Act (protection for acts done for the purposes of
compliance), applies (with the necessary modifications) for the purposes of
the prohibition under subsection (1) as it applies for the purposes of
prohibitions under financial sanctions regulations.

351.7

The Treasury may by regulations made by statutory instrument—

351.7.a

specify further exceptions to the prohibition in subsection (1);

351.7.b

make such other provision as they consider appropriate for the purposes of, or
for purposes connected to, any provision made by this section.

351.8

A statutory instrument containing regulations under subsection (7) is subject
to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of the House of Commons.

351.9

References in  this section  to “financial sanctions regulations” are
references to regulations made (whether before or after the passing of this
Act) under section 1 of SAMLA 2018, so far as they make provision for or in
connection with imposing financial sanctions (within the meaning of section 3
of that Act).

351.10

In  this section —

                                    “ designated person ” has the meaning
given by section 9 of SAMLA 2018;
“ enactment ” means any provision made by or under an Act (whether before or
after the passing of this Act);
“ HMRC ” means His Majesty's Revenue and Customs;
“ SAMLA 2018 ” means the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018;
“ a withheld amount ” means an amount that HMRC would, apart from this
section, be required or permitted to pay to a person.

##### Communications data

352

352.1

Section 12(2) of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (restriction of powers to
obtain communications data) does not apply to a power falling within
subsection (2) .

352.2

A power falls within this subsection if it is conferred (whether before, on or
after the passing of this Act) by or under—

352.2.a

any Finance Act of any year (including this Act and any other numbered Finance
Act);

352.2.b

the Taxes Acts (within the meaning of TMA 1970);

352.2.c

the customs and excise Acts (within the meaning of CEMA 1979);

352.2.d

any enactment relating to value added tax;

352.2.e

any enactment, not falling within paragraphs  (a)  to  (d) , that relates to
tax.

352.3

But  subsection (1)  does not apply in relation to the exercise of such a
power by a public authority in the course of a criminal investigation by the
authority.

352.4

In section 12 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016, after subsection (2)
insert—

352.4.2A

Subsection (2) is subject to  section 352 (1)  of the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023
(no restriction on tax related powers).

352.5

In Schedule 36 to FA 2008 (information and inspection powers), in paragraph
19, omit sub-paragraphs (4) and (5).

352.6

In consequence of the repeal made by  subsection (5) , omit paragraph 10 of
Schedule 2 to the Investigatory Powers Act 2016.

352.7

The modification and amendments made by  subsections (1)  to  (6)  are to be
treated as having always had effect.

352.8

Subsections  (9)  and  (10)  apply where—

352.8.a

before the day on which this Act is passed, a public authority imposed a
requirement on a person under a power falling within  subsection (2) , and

352.8.b

as a result of section 12(2) of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 the public
authority did not, ignoring this section, have the power to impose it.

352.9

The requirement is to be treated as having been imposed on the day on which
this Act is passed (and accordingly the period in which it must be complied
with is to be treated as starting on that day) unless—

352.9.a

the requirement was withdrawn by the public authority before that day, or

352.9.b

the person complied with the requirement before that day.

352.10

Where, before the day on which this Act is passed, the public authority
imposed a penalty on the person for contravening the requirement—

352.10.a

the penalty is of no effect, and

352.10.b

if already paid, the authority is liable to repay it.

#### Final

##### Interpretation

353

In this Act the following abbreviations are references to the following Acts—

                                                             ALDA 1979
Alcoholic Liquor Duties Act 1979 CAA 2001 Capital Allowances Act 2001 CEMA
1979 Customs and Excise Management Act 1979 CTA 2009 Corporation Tax Act 2009
CTA 2010 Corporation Tax Act 2010 FA followed by a year Finance Act of that
year F(No.2)A followed by a year Finance (No.2) Act of that year HODA 1979
Hydrocarbon Oil Duties Act 1979 ICTA Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 ITA
2007 Income Tax Act 2007 ITEPA 2003 Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act
2003 ITTOIA 2005 Income Tax (Trading and Other Income) Act 2005 TCGA 1992
Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 TCTA 2018 Taxation (Cross-border Trade)
Act 2018 TIOPA 2010 Taxation (International and Other Provisions) Act 2010 TMA
1970 Taxes Management Act 1970 TPDA 1979 Tobacco Products Duty Act 1979 VATA
1994 Value Added Tax Act 1994 VERA 1994 Vehicle Excise and Registration Act
1994

##### Short title

354

This Act may be cited as the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023.

## Schedules

                 Relief for research and development

Section 10

##### Claim notifications

###### Requirement to make claim notifications in relation to certain R&D claims

1

1.1

Chapter 6A of Part 3 of CTA 2009 (trade profits: R&D expenditure credits) is
amended as follows.

1.2

In section 104A (R&D expenditure credits), after subsection (5) insert—

1.2.5A

This section is subject to  section 104AA .

1.3

After that section insert—

############ Requirement to make a claim notification

1.3.104AA

1.3.104AA.1

A company may not make a claim under section 104A(1) (an “RDEC claim”) after
the end of the claim notification period unless—

1.3.104AA.1.a

the company has made an R&D claim during the period of three years ending with
the last day of the claim notification period,

1.3.104AA.1.b

the company makes a claim notification in respect of the RDEC claim within the
claim notification period, or

1.3.104AA.1.c

the accounting period in respect of which the RDEC claim is made falls within
the same period of account as another accounting period in respect of which
the company has made an R&D claim or a claim notification.

1.3.104AA.2

For the purposes of  subsection (1) (a) ignore any R&D claim for an accounting
period beginning before 1 April 2023 that is included in the company’s company
tax return only by virtue of an amendment made on or after that date (see
paragraph 83B(2) of Schedule 18 to FA 1998).

1.4

In section 104Y (interpretation), in subsection (1)—

1.4.a

before the entry for “large company” insert—

                                                                        “
claim notification ” (see  section 1142A ),
“ claim notification period ” (see  section 1142A ),

;

1.4.b

after the entry for “research and development” insert—

                                                                        “ R&D
claim ” (see  section 1142B ),

.

2

2.1

Part 13 of CTA 2009 (additional relief for expenditure on R&D) is amended as
follows.

2.2

In section 1044 (additional deduction in calculating profits of trade), in
subsection (9), after “subject to” insert

—

2.2.a

section 1045A  (requirement to make a claim notification);

2.2.b



.

2.3

Before section 1046 (relief only available where company is going concern) but
after the preceding italic heading insert—

############ Requirement to make a claim notification

2.3.1045A

2.3.1045A.1

A company may not make a claim under section 1044(6) (an “additional deduction
claim”) after the end of the claim notification period unless—

2.3.1045A.1.a

the company has made an R&D claim during the period of three years ending with
the last day of the claim notification period,

2.3.1045A.1.b

the company makes a claim notification in respect of the additional deduction
claim within the claim notification period, or

2.3.1045A.1.c

the accounting period in respect of which the additional deduction claim is
made falls within the same period of account as another accounting period in
respect of which the company has made an R&D claim or a claim notification.

2.3.1045A.2

For the purposes of  subsection (1) (a)  ignore any R&D claim for an
accounting period beginning before 1 April 2023 that is included in the
company’s company tax return only by virtue of an amendment made on or after
that date (see paragraph 83B(2) of Schedule 18 to FA 1998).

.

2.4

In section 1054 (entitlement to and payment of tax credit), in subsection (5),
after “subject to” insert

—

2.4.a

section 1054A  (requirement to make a claim notification);

2.4.b



.

2.5

After that section insert—

############ Requirement to make a claim notification

2.5.1054A

2.5.1054A.1

A company may not make a claim under section 1054(2) (an “R&D tax credit
claim”) after the end of the claim notification period unless—

2.5.1054A.1.a

the company has made an R&D claim during the period of three years ending with
the last day of the claim notification period,

2.5.1054A.1.b

the company makes a claim notification in respect of the R&D tax credit claim
within the claim notification period, or

2.5.1054A.1.c

the accounting period in respect of which the R&D tax credit claim is made
falls within the same period of account as another accounting period in
respect of which the company has made an R&D claim or a claim notification.

2.5.1054A.2

For the purposes of  subsection (1) (a)  ignore any R&D claim for an
accounting period beginning before 1 April 2023 that is included in the
company’s company tax return only by virtue of an amendment made on or after
that date (see paragraph 83B(2) of Schedule 18 to FA 1998).

2.6

After section 1142 (“qualifying body”) insert—

############ “Claim notification” and “claim notification period”

2.6.1142A

2.6.1142A.1

For the purposes of this Part—

                     “ claim notification ” means, in relation to an R&D
claim, a notification made by the company to an officer of His Majesty’s
Revenue and Customs in accordance with regulations under  subsection (2) ;
“ claim notification period ” means, in relation to an R&D claim, the period—
beginning with the first day of the period of account which is the same as the
accounting period in respect of which the claim is made, or within which that
accounting period falls, and
ending with the last day of the period of six months beginning with the first
day after that period of account.

2.6.1142A.2

The Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs may by regulations
specify, in relation to a claim notification—

2.6.1142A.2.a

information to be provided with the notification;

2.6.1142A.2.b

the form and manner in which the notification is to be made.

############ “R&D claim”

2.6.1142B

For the purposes of this Part an “R&D claim” means a claim under—

2.6.1142B.a

section 104A (R&D expenditure credits),

2.6.1142B.b

section 1044 (relief for SMEs: additional deduction), or

2.6.1142B.c

section 1054 (entitlement to R&D tax credit).

##### R&D expenditure on data and cloud computing

###### Relief for R&D expenditure on data and cloud computing

3

3.1

Chapter 9 of Part 13 of CTA 2009 (additional relief for expenditure on R&D:
supplementary) is amended as follows.

3.2

In the italic heading before section 1125 (“software or consumable items”),
after “Software” insert  “, data licences, cloud computing services” .

3.3

In that section—

3.3.a

in the heading, after “Software” insert  “, data licences, cloud computing
services” ;

3.3.b

in subsection (1)—

3.3.b.i

in the words before paragraph (a), for “or consumable items means expenditure
on” substitute  “, data licences, cloud computing services or consumable items
means an amount paid by the company in respect of” ;

3.3.b.ii

omit the “or” at the end of that paragraph;

3.3.b.iii

after that paragraph insert—

3.3.b.iii.aa

data licences,

3.3.b.iii.ab

cloud computing services, or

;

3.3.c

after subsection (1) insert—

3.3.c.1A

For the purposes of subsection (1) (aa)  a data licence is a licence to access
and use a collection of digital data.

3.3.c.1B

For the purposes of subsection (1) (ab)  cloud computing services include the
provision of access to, and maintenance of, remote—

3.3.c.1B.a

data storage and hardware facilities;

3.3.c.1B.b

operating systems and software platforms.

3.4

In section 1126 (software or consumable items: attributable expenditure)—

3.4.a

in the heading, after “Software” insert  “, data licences, cloud computing
services” ;

3.4.b

in subsections (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6), in each place it appears,
after “software” insert  “, data licences, cloud computing services” .

3.5

After section 1126 insert—

############ Attributable expenditure: special rules for data and cloud computing

3.5.1126ZA

3.5.1126ZA.1

Expenditure on data licences or cloud computing services is not to be treated
as attributable to relevant research and development if, in connection with
the grant of a licence or the provision of a service, a relevant person
obtains—

3.5.1126ZA.1.a

a right to sell data in respect of which the licence is granted or the service
is provided (as the case may be);

3.5.1126ZA.1.b

a right to publish, share or otherwise communicate data in respect of which
the licence is granted or the service is provided (as the case may be) to a
third party, other than for the purposes of communications reasonably
necessary for, or incidental to, the purposes of the relevant research and
development.

3.5.1126ZA.2

Expenditure on data licences or cloud computing services is not to be treated
as attributable to relevant research and development so far as it is
attributable to a qualifying indirect activity.

3.5.1126ZA.3

In this section—

                     “ qualifying indirect activity ” means an activity
mentioned in paragraph 31 of the Guidelines on the Meaning of Research and
Development for Tax Purposes issued on 7 March 2023 and as amended from time
to time;
“ relevant person ” has the meaning given in section 1126A(10).

3.6

In section 1126A (attributable expenditure: special rules), in the heading,
after “special rules” insert  “for consumable items” .

3.7

In section 1126B (attributable expenditure: further provision)—

3.7.a

in subsection (1)—

3.7.a.i

after “expenditure on” insert  “data licences, cloud computing services or” ;

3.7.a.ii

after “1126” insert  “, 1126ZA” ;

3.7.b

in subsection (2)—

3.7.b.i

in paragraph (a), after “expenditure on” insert  “data licences, cloud
computing services or” ;

3.7.b.ii

in paragraph (b), after “in which” insert  “data licences, cloud computing
services or” ;

3.7.c

in subsection (4), after paragraph (a) insert—

3.7.c.aa

section 1126ZA ;

.

###### Relief for R&D expenditure on data and cloud computing: consequential amendments

4

CTA 2009 is amended as follows.

5

In Chapter 6A of Part 3 (trade profits: R&D expenditure credits)—

5.a

in section 104D (expenditure on sub-contracted R&D undertaken in-house), in
subsection (3)(b), after “software” insert  “, data licences, cloud computing
services” ;

5.b

in section 104G (subsidised qualifying expenditure on in-house direct R&D), in
subsection (3)(b), after “software” insert  “, data licences, cloud computing
services” ;

5.c

in section 104J (qualifying expenditure on in-house direct R&D), in subsection
(2)(b), after “software” insert  “, data licences, cloud computing services” ;

5.d

in section 104Y (interpretation), in subsection (2), in the description of
sections 1125 to 1126B , after “software” insert  “, data licences, cloud
computing services” .

6

In Part 13 (additional relief for expenditure on R&D)—

6.a

in Chapter 2 (relief for SMEs: cost of R&D incurred by SME), in section 1052
(qualifying expenditure on in-house direct R&D), in subsection (2)(b), after
“software” insert  “, data licences, cloud computing services” ;

6.b

in Chapter 9 (supplementary), in section 1134 (qualifying element of sub-
contractor payment: connected persons), in subsection (3)(c), after “software”
insert  “, data licences, cloud computing services” .

7

In Schedule 2 (transitionals and savings), in Part 15 (research and
development)—

7.a

in the italic heading before paragraph 122, after “software” insert  “, data
licences, cloud computing services” ;

7.b

in paragraph 122(2), after “software” insert  “, data licences, cloud
computing services” .

8

In Schedule 4 (index of defined expressions), in both places it occurs, after
“software” insert  “, data licences, cloud computing services” .

9

In section 357BLB of CTA 2010 (qualifying expenditure on relevant R&D
undertaken in-house)—

9.a

in subsection (2), in paragraph (b), after “software” insert  “, data
licences, cloud computing services” ;

9.b

in subsection (7)—

9.b.i

in paragraph (c), after “software” insert  “, data licences, cloud computing
services” ;

9.b.ii

in paragraph (d), after “software” insert  “, data licences, cloud computing
services” .

##### Amendments to Schedule 18 to FA 1998

###### Introduction

10

Schedule 18 to FA 1998 (company tax returns, assessments and related matters)
is amended as follows.

###### Power of HMRC to collect overpaid R&D tax relief or expenditure credit

11

In paragraph 52 (recovery of excessive repayments etc)—

11.a

in sub-paragraph (2) omit paragraphs (bza) and (ba);

11.b

for sub-paragraph (2A) substitute—

11.b.2A

The provisions of paragraphs 41 and 45 to 48 relating to discovery assessments
apply to an amount paid to a company by way of—

11.b.2A.a

first-year tax credit under Schedule A1 to the Capital Allowances Act;

11.b.2A.b

R&D expenditure credit under Chapter 6A of Part 3 of the Corporation Tax Act
2009;

11.b.2A.c

R&D tax credit under Chapter 2 or 7 of Part 13 of that Act,

but only to the extent that the company was not, or is no longer, entitled to
the credit.

###### Time limits for R&D claims

12

For paragraph 83E (time limit for claims) substitute—

12.83E

12.83E.1

Except where  sub-paragraph (3)  applies, a claim to which this Part of this
Schedule applies may be made, amended or withdrawn at any time up to the last
day of the period of—

12.83E.1.a

two years beginning with the last day of the period of account, in a case
where the period of account to which the claim relates is not longer than 18
months, or

12.83E.1.b

42 months beginning with the first day of the period of account, in any other
case.

12.83E.2

Sub-paragraph (3)  applies where—

12.83E.2.a

a company makes a claim for R&D tax relief under Part 13 of the Corporation
Tax Act 2009,

12.83E.2.b

the company is not entitled to the relief, and

12.83E.2.c

an officer of Revenue and Customs exercises the power under paragraph 34(2)(b)
or (2A) to make an amendment by removing the claim from the company tax return
in which it is made.

12.83E.3

The company may make, amend or withdraw a claim for R&D expenditure credit
under Chapter 6A of Part 3 of the Corporation Tax Act 2009 in respect of
eligible expenditure at any time up to whichever is the last of the following
dates—

12.83E.3.a

30 days after notice of the amendment mentioned in  sub-paragraph (2) (c)  is
issued;

12.83E.3.b

if an appeal is brought against that amendment, 30 days after the date on
which the appeal is finally determined.

12.83E.4

In this paragraph “ eligible expenditure ” means expenditure—

12.83E.4.a

to which the claim mentioned in  sub-paragraph (2) (a)  relates, and

12.83E.4.b

in respect of which the company is entitled to R&D expenditure credit.

12.83E.5

A claim to which this Part of this Schedule applies may be made, amended or
withdrawn after the end of the period mentioned in  sub-paragraph (1)  or  (3)
(as the case may be) if an officer of Revenue and Customs allows it.

###### Requirement to provide additional information in relation to R&D claims

13

In Part 9A (company tax returns etc: claims for R&D expenditure credits or R&D
tax relief), after paragraph 83E (substituted by  paragraph 12 ) insert—

########## Additional information to be provided in relation to claim

13.83EA

13.83EA.1

A claim to which this Part of this Schedule applies is invalid unless the
claimant company has provided information to an officer of Revenue and Customs
in accordance with regulations under  sub-paragraph (2)  not later than the
date on which the claim is made or amended by the company in accordance with
paragraph 83E.

13.83EA.2

The Commissioners for Revenue and Customs may by regulations specify, in
relation to a claim to which this Part of this Schedule applies—

13.83EA.2.a

information to be provided by the claimant company;

13.83EA.2.b

the form and manner in which the information is to be provided.

###### Power of HMRC to remove R&D claims made in error from return

14

In Part 9A (claims for R&D expenditure credits or R&D tax relief), after
paragraph 83EA (inserted by  paragraph 13 ) insert—

########## Removal from return of claims made in error

14.83EB

14.83EB.1

This paragraph applies, in relation to a claim to which this Part of this
Schedule applies (the “original claim”), where an officer of Revenue and
Customs—

14.83EB.1.a

reasonably believes that a claimant company has failed to comply with a
requirement relating to the making of the claim (and accordingly that the
claim has been made in error), and

14.83EB.1.b

exercises the power under paragraph 16(1) to make a correction by removing the
claim from the company tax return in which it is made.

14.83EB.2

Sub-paragraphs (4) and (5) of paragraph 16 do not apply in relation to the
correction (and accordingly the claimant company may not reject the
correction).

14.83EB.3

The claimant company may, within 90 days beginning with the date of the notice
issued under paragraph 16(3), send written representations to an officer of
Revenue and Customs objecting to the notice on the grounds that a matter
stated in the notice was incorrect.

14.83EB.4

An officer of Revenue and Customs must consider any representations made under
sub-paragraph (3) .

14.83EB.5

Having considered the representations, the officer must determine whether to—

14.83EB.5.a

confirm the notice, or

14.83EB.5.b

withdraw the notice,

and must notify the claimant company accordingly.

14.83EB.6

Nothing in  sub-paragraph (2)  prevents the claimant company from amending its
company tax return to make a new claim to which this Part of this Schedule
would apply in respect of the expenditure to which the original claim related
(but see  sub-paragraph (7) ).

14.83EB.7

Where, in relation to the original claim—

14.83EB.7.a

a claim notification (within the meaning of  section 1142A  of the Corporation
Tax Act 2009) was required to be made, and

14.83EB.7.b

no claim notification was made,

the company may not make a new claim to which this Part of this Schedule would
apply in respect of the expenditure to which the original claim related.

##### Miscellaneous amendments

###### Amendment of CTA 2009

15

CTA 2009 is amended as follows.

###### R&D tax relief: circumstances in which enterprises are treated as SMEs

16

16.1

In section 1119—

16.1.a

in subsection (1), at the end insert  “(and see  sections 1120A  and  1120B )”
;

16.1.b

in subsection (2), for “section 1120” substitute  “ sections 1120 to  1120B ”
.

16.2

In section 1120 (qualifications to section 1119)—

16.2.a

after subsection (6) insert—

16.2.a.6A

This section is subject to  sections 1120A  and  1120B .

;

16.2.b

in subsection (7), in the words before paragraph (a), after “section” insert
“and in  sections 1120A  and  1120B ” .

16.3

After that section insert—

############ Enterprise treated as an SME where related enterprise becomes large

16.3.1120A

16.3.1120A.1

This section applies, in relation to an accounting period, where the following
conditions are met.

16.3.1120A.2

The first condition is that, for the duration of the accounting period, an
enterprise (“ E ”) is related to a partner enterprise or linked enterprise (“
F ”).

16.3.1120A.3

The second condition is that, at the start of the accounting period, both E
and F are small or medium-sized enterprises.

16.3.1120A.4

The third condition is that, at the end of the accounting period, E is not a
small or medium-sized enterprise by reason only that F has, during the
accounting period, exceeded the employee limit or either of the financial
limits.

16.3.1120A.5

Both E and F are to be treated as if they were small or medium-sized
enterprises for the accounting period.

############ Enterprise treated as an SME where acquired by an SME

16.3.1120B

16.3.1120B.1

This section applies, in relation to an accounting period, where the following
conditions are met.

16.3.1120B.2

The first condition is that, at the start of the accounting period, an
enterprise (“ E ”) was not a small or medium-sized enterprise by reason only
that a partner enterprise or linked enterprise to which E was related exceeded
the employee limit or either of the financial limits.

16.3.1120B.3

The second condition is that, during the accounting period, control of E was
acquired by a company that, at the time of the acquisition, was a small or
medium-sized enterprise.

16.3.1120B.4

E is to be treated as if it were a small or medium-sized enterprise for the
accounting period.

16.3.1120B.5

In  subsection (3)  “ control ” has the same meaning as in section 1124 of CTA
2010.

###### Accounts treated as prepared on going concern basis

17

17.1

In section 104T (R&D expenditure credits: “going concern”), after subsection
(4) insert—

17.1.4A

For the purposes of this section, where a company (“ A ”) is a member of the
same group as another company (“ B ”) and A’s latest published accounts were
not prepared on a going concern basis by reason only of a relevant group
transfer, the accounts are to be treated as if they were prepared on a going
concern basis.

17.1.4B

For the purposes of this section a “relevant group transfer” is a transfer
within the accounting period to which the latest published accounts relate by
A of its trade and research and development to another member of the group
mentioned in  subsection (4A) .

17.2

In section 1046 (R&D relief for SMEs: relief only available where company is
going concern), after subsection (2C) insert—

17.2.2D

For the purposes of this section, where a company (“ A ”) is a member of the
same group as another company (“ B ”) and A’s latest published accounts were
not prepared on a going concern basis by reason only of a relevant group
transfer, the accounts are to be treated as if they were prepared on a going
concern basis.

17.2.2E

For the purposes of this section—

17.2.2E.a

a “relevant group transfer” is a transfer, within the accounting period to
which the latest published accounts relate, by A of its trade and research and
development to another member of the group mentioned in  subsection (2D) ;

17.2.2E.b

A and B are members of the same group if they are members of the same group of
companies for the purposes of Part 5 of CTA 2010 (group relief).

17.3

In section 1057 (R&D relief for SMEs: tax credit only available where company
is a going concern), after subsection (4C) insert—

17.3.4D

For the purposes of this section, where a company (“ A ”) is a member of the
same group as another company (“ B ”) and A’s latest published accounts were
not prepared on a going concern basis by reason only of a relevant group
transfer, the accounts are to be treated as if they were prepared on a going
concern basis.

17.3.4E

For the purposes of this section—

17.3.4E.a

a “relevant group transfer” is a transfer, within the accounting period to
which the latest published accounts relate, by A of its trade and research and
development to another member of the group mentioned in  subsection (4D) ;

17.3.4E.b

A and B are members of the same group if they are members of the same group of
companies for the purposes of Part 5 of CTA 2010 (group relief).

###### Meaning of expenditure incurred on payments

18

18.1

In section 104Y (R&D expenditure credits: interpretation), at the end insert—

18.1.4

References in this Chapter to expenditure incurred on payments (however
expressed) are references to expenditure incurred on payments made before the
making of a claim under this Chapter in relation to that expenditure.

18.2

Before section 1140 insert—

############ Expenditure incurred on payments

18.2.1139A

18.2.1139A.1

References in this Part to expenditure incurred on payments (however
expressed) are references to expenditure incurred on payments made before the
making of a claim under this Part in relation to that expenditure.

##### Commencement

19

The amendment made by  paragraph 13  of this Schedule has effect in relation
to claims made on or after 1 August 2023.

20

The amendments made by the remaining provisions of this Schedule have effect
in relation to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2023.

                 Estates in administration and trusts

Section 29

##### Estates in administration

###### Income tax

####### The applicable rate for grossing up basic amounts of estate income

1

1.1

Chapter 6 of Part 5 of ITTOIA 2005 (beneficiaries’ income from estates in
administration) is amended as follows.

1.2

In section 656 (income charged: UK estates), in subsection (2) omit “for that
year”.

1.3

In section 657 (income charged: foreign estates), in subsection (3) omit “for
that year”.

1.4

For section 663 (the applicable rate for grossing up basic amounts of estate
income) substitute—

############# The applicable rate for grossing up basic amounts of estate income

1.4.663

1.4.663.1

The applicable rate by reference to which a basic amount of estate income is
grossed up for the purposes of sections 656 and 657 depends on the rate at
which income tax was borne by the parts of the aggregate income of the estate
from which section 679 treats the basic amount as having been paid.

1.4.663.2

If the same rate was borne by all of the income from which section 679 treats
the basic amount as having been paid, the applicable rate is that rate.

1.4.663.3

If different rates were borne by different parts of the income from which
section 679 treats the basic amount as having been paid, each of those rates
is the applicable rate by reference to which the corresponding part of the
basic amount is grossed up.

####### The applicable rate for grossing up for determining shares in an estate in the final tax year

2

2.1

Chapter 6 of Part 5 of ITTOIA 2005 (beneficiaries’ income from estates in
administration) is amended as follows.

2.2

In section 668 (reduction in share of residuary income of estate)—

2.2.a

in subsection (1), in paragraph (b), for “(grossed up where subsection (5)
applies)” substitute  “grossed up, where the estate is a UK estate, by the
applicable rate (see  subsections (5A)  to  (5C) )” ;

2.2.b

for subsection (5) substitute—

2.2.b.5A

The applicable rate by reference to which a sum within subsection (1)(b) is
grossed up depends on the rate at which income tax was borne by the parts of
the aggregate income of the estate from which  section 679A  treats the sum as
having been paid.

2.2.b.5B

If the same rate was borne by all the income from which  section 679A  treats
the sum as having been paid, the applicable rate is that rate.

2.2.b.5C

If different rates were borne by different parts of the income from which
section 679A  treats the sum as having been paid, each of those rates is the
applicable rate by reference to which the corresponding part of the sum is
grossed up.

2.3

After section 679 insert—

############# Income from which sums within section 668(1)(b) are treated as paid

2.3.679A

2.3.679A.1

The part of the aggregate income of the estate from which a sum within section
668(1)(b) is treated as paid is determined by applying assumptions A and B in
that order.

2.3.679A.2

Assumption A is that if there are different persons with an absolute interest
in the residue of the estate, such apportionments of the aggregate income of
the estate in respect of those interests are to be made as are just and
reasonable for the different interests.

2.3.679A.3

Assumption B is that sums are paid from the income to which a person’s share
of the residuary estate relates in descending order, starting with the income
bearing income tax at the highest rate and ending with the income bearing
income tax at the lowest rate.

2.3.679A.4

If some, but not all, of the aggregate income of the estate is income within
section 680, assumption C is applied before assumptions A and B.

2.3.679A.5

Assumption C is that the basic amount is paid from income that is not within
section 680 before it is paid from income within that section.

2.3.679A.6

Assumptions A and B then apply—

2.3.679A.6.a

first to determine the part of the income not within that section from which
the basic amount is paid, and

2.3.679A.6.b

then to determine the part of the income within that section from which the
basic amount is paid.

2.4

In section 680 (income treated as bearing income tax), in subsection (1)—

2.4.a

omit the “and” at the end of the entry for section 670;

2.4.b

at the end insert

, and

      section 679A  (income from which sums within section 668(1)(b) are
treated as paid).

####### Income from stock dividends etc treated as bearing income tax at 0%

3

3.1

Chapter 6 of Part 5 of ITTOIA 2005 (beneficiaries' income from estates in
administration) is amended as follows.

3.2

In section 670 (applicable rate for determining assumed income entitlement (UK
estates)) omit subsection (4A).

3.3

In section 680 (income treated as bearing income tax)—

3.3.a

in subsection (2), after “within subsection” insert  “ (2A)  or” ;

3.3.b

after subsection (2) insert—

3.3.b.2A

A sum that is part of the aggregate income of the estate because of falling
within section 664(2)(c) (stock dividends) or (d) (release of loans to
participator in close company: loans and advances to persons who die) is
treated as bearing income tax at 0%.

####### Income treated as dividend income and savings income

4

4.1

Chapter 6 of Part 5 of ITTOIA 2005 (beneficiaries’ income from estates in
administration) is amended as follows.

4.2

For section 680A (income treated as dividend income) substitute—

############# Income treated as dividend income

4.2.680A

4.2.680A.1

This section applies to estate income that—

4.2.680A.1.a

by virtue of section 663 (applicable rate for grossing up basic amounts of
estate income) is treated as bearing income tax at the ordinary dividend rate,
or

4.2.680A.1.b

by virtue of that section and section 680 (2A)  (income treated as bearing
income tax: dividends and loans to a participator in close company) is treated
as bearing income tax at 0%.

4.2.680A.2

The income is treated as being dividend income.

4.3

After that section insert—

############# Income treated as savings income

4.3.680B

4.3.680B.1

This section applies to estate income relating to a person’s interest in the
residue of an estate so far as that interest relates to income that—

4.3.680B.1.a

falls within section 664(2)(a) (income of personal representatives charged to
UK income tax), and

4.3.680B.1.b

is savings income (see section 18 of ITA 2007).

4.3.680B.2

The income is treated as being savings income.

####### Order in which basic amounts are treated as paid from aggregate income

5

In section 679 of ITTOIA 2005 (income from which basic amounts are treated as
paid)—

5.a

in subsection (3), for the words “in the following order” to the end of
paragraph (c) substitute  “in descending order, starting with the income
bearing income tax at the highest rate and ending with the income bearing
income tax at the lowest rate” ;

5.b

in subsection (4), for “treated under section 680 as bearing income tax”
substitute  “within section 680” .

###### Corporation tax

####### The applicable rate for grossing up basic amounts of estate income

6

6.1

Chapter 3 of Part 10 of CTA 2009 (beneficiaries’ income from estates in
administration) is amended as follows.

6.2

In section 941 (income charged: UK estates), in subsection (2) omit “for the
relevant tax year”.

6.3

In section 942 (income charged: foreign estates), in subsection (3) omit “for
the relevant tax year”.

6.4

For section 946 (applicable rate for grossing up basic amounts of estate
income) substitute—

############# Applicable rate for grossing up basic amounts of estate income

6.4.946

6.4.946.1

The applicable rate by reference to which a basic amount of estate income is
grossed up for the purposes of sections 941 and 942 depends on the rate at
which income tax was borne by the parts of the aggregate income of the estate
from which section 962 treats the basic amount as having been paid.

6.4.946.2

If the same rate was borne by all of the income from which section 962 treats
the basic amount as having been paid, the applicable rate is that rate.

6.4.946.3

If different rates were borne by different parts of the income from which
section 962 treats the basic amount as having been paid, each of those rates
is the applicable rate by reference to which the corresponding part of the
basic amount is grossed up.

6.5

After section 961 insert—

############# Meaning of “the relevant tax year”

6.5.961A

In sections 960 and 961, “ the relevant tax year ” in relation to an amount of
estate income, means the tax year in which the amount of estate income would
be treated as arising if—

6.5.961A.a

the references in this Chapter to accounting periods were references to tax
years, and

6.5.961A.b

section 950(3) (apportionment between accounting periods) were ignored.

####### The applicable rate for grossing up for determining shares in an estate in the final tax year

7

7.1

Chapter 3 of Part 10 of CTA 2009 (beneficiaries’ income from estates in
administration) is amended as follows.

7.2

In section 951 (reduction in share of residuary income of estate)—

7.2.a

in subsection (1), in paragraph (b), for “(grossed up where subsection (5)
applies)” substitute  “grossed up, where the estate is a UK estate, by the
applicable rate (see subsections  (5A)  to  (5C) );

7.2.b

for subsection (5) substitute—

7.2.b.5A

The applicable rate by reference to which a sum within subsection (1)(b) is
grossed up depends on the rate at which income tax was borne by the parts of
the aggregate income of the estate from which  section 962A  treats the sum as
having been paid.

7.2.b.5B

If the same rate was borne by all the income from which  section 962A  treats
the sum as having been paid, the applicable rate is that rate.

7.2.b.5C

If different rates were borne by different parts of the income from which
section 962A  treats the sum as having been paid, each of those rates is the
applicable rate by reference to which the corresponding part of the sum is
grossed up.

7.3

After section 962 insert—

############# Income from which sums within section 951(1)(b) are treated as paid

7.3.962A

7.3.962A.1

The part of the aggregate income of the estate from which a sum within section
951(1)(b) is treated as paid is determined by applying assumptions A and B in
that order.

7.3.962A.2

Assumption A is that if there are different persons with an absolute interest
in the residue of the estate, such apportionments of the aggregate income of
the estate in respect of those interests are to be made as are just and
reasonable for the different interests.

7.3.962A.3

Assumption B is that sums are paid from the income to which a person’s share
of the residuary estate relates in descending order, starting with the income
bearing income tax at the highest rate and ending with the income bearing
income tax at the lowest rate.

7.3.962A.4

If some, but not all, of the aggregate income of the estate is income within
section 963, assumption C is applied before assumptions A and B.

7.3.962A.5

Assumption C is that the basic amount is paid from income that is not within
section 963 before it is paid from income within that section.

7.3.962A.6

Assumptions A and B then apply—

7.3.962A.6.a

first to determine the part of the income not within that section from which
the basic amount is paid, and

7.3.962A.6.b

then to determine the part of the income within that section from which the
basic amount is paid.

7.4

In section 963 (income treated as bearing income tax)—

7.4.a

omit the “and” at the end of the entry for section 952;

7.4.b

at the end insert

, and

      section 962A  (income from which sums within section 951(1)(b) are
treated as paid).

####### Income from stock dividends etc treated as bearing income tax at 0%

8

8.1

Chapter 3 of Part 10 of CTA 2009 (beneficiaries’ income from estates in
administration) is amended as follows.

8.2

In section 936 (meaning of “ UK estate ” and “ foreign estate ”), in
subsections (4) and (5), after “section 963(3)” insert  “,  (3A) ” .

8.3

In section 963 of CTA 2009 (income treated as bearing income tax)—

8.3.a

in subsection (2), after “within subsection (3)” insert  “,  (3A) ” ;

8.3.b

in subsection (3), omit paragraph (b) (and the “or” immediately before it);

8.3.c

after subsection (3) insert—

8.3.c.3A

A sum that is part of the aggregate income of the estate because of falling
within section 947(2)(c) (stock dividends) or (d) (release of loans to
participator in close company: loans and advances to persons who die) is
treated as bearing income tax at 0%.

####### Order in which basic amounts are treated as paid from aggregate income

9

In section 962 of CTA 2009 (income from which basic amounts are treated as
paid)—

9.a

in subsection (3), for the words “in the following order” to the end of
paragraph (b) substitute  “in descending order, starting with the income
bearing income tax at the highest rate and ending with the income bearing
income tax at the lowest rate” ;

9.b

in subsection (4), for “treated under section 963 as bearing income tax”
substitute  “within section 963” .

##### Low income trusts and estates

###### Income tax

####### Low income estates and trusts: tax liability of personal representatives and trustees

10

10.1

Chapter 3 of Part 2 of ITA 2007 (calculation of income tax liability) is
amended as follows.

10.2

In section 23 (the calculation of income tax liability), at the end of Step 2
insert—

                                            See also  section 24B  which
provides that a taxpayer’s net income is taken to be £0 in certain cases.

10.3

After section 24A insert—

############# Calculation of net income at Step 2 for low income estates and trusts

10.3.24B

10.3.24B.1

Subsection (2)  applies in relation to a taxpayer if—

10.3.24B.1.a

they are the personal representative of a deceased person and, ignoring this
section, their net income in that capacity at the end of Step 2 of the
calculation in section 23 would be equal to or less than the de minimis
estates amount, or

10.3.24B.1.b

they are the trustee of a settlement (“the relevant settlement”) and, ignoring
this section, their net income in that capacity at the end of that Step would
be equal to or less than the de minimis trusts amount.

10.3.24B.2

The taxpayer’s net income in their capacity as a personal representative of a
deceased person or trustee of a settlement (as the case may be) at the end of
Step 2 of the calculation in section 23 is taken to be £0.

10.3.24B.3

The de minimis estates amount is £500.

10.3.24B.4

The de minimis trusts amount is—

10.3.24B.4.a

£500, or

10.3.24B.4.b

in a case where  subsection (5)  applies, the higher of—

10.3.24B.4.b.i

£100, and

10.3.24B.4.b.ii

the settlor’s threshold amount.

10.3.24B.5

This subsection applies where—

10.3.24B.5.a

the settlor in relation to the relevant settlement is also the settlor in
relation to one or more qualifying settlements,

10.3.24B.5.b

ignoring this section, the trust rate income (within the meaning of Part 9)
for the tax year of the trustees of the relevant settlement would be greater
than £0, and

10.3.24B.5.c

the relevant settlement is a settlement in respect of which each of the
conditions mentioned in  subsection (9)  is met throughout the tax year.

10.3.24B.6

The settlor’s threshold amount is the amount given by—

£ 500 QS + 1       where QS is the total number of qualifying settlements.

10.3.24B.7

If there is more than one settlor in relation to the relevant settlement—

10.3.24B.7.a

calculate the threshold amount of each of them, and

10.3.24B.7.b

use the lowest of those threshold amounts for the purposes of  subsection (4)
(b) (ii) .

10.3.24B.8

A settlement is a “qualifying settlement” if—

10.3.24B.8.a

it is not the relevant settlement,

10.3.24B.8.b

it is in existence at a time during the tax year,

10.3.24B.8.c

ignoring this section, the trust rate income (within the meaning of Part 9)
for the tax year of the trustees of the settlement would be greater than £0,
and

10.3.24B.8.d

it is a settlement in respect of which each of the conditions mentioned in
subsection (9)  is met throughout the tax year.

10.3.24B.9

The conditions are—

10.3.24B.9.a

the property comprised in the settlement is not held for a pensions purpose
within the meaning of paragraph 7(3) of Schedule 1C to TCGA 1992 (property
comprised in settlements held for a pensions purpose);

10.3.24B.9.b

no income arising under the settlement is treated as the income of the settlor
as a result of section 624 of ITTOIA 2005 (income where settlor retains an
interest);

10.3.24B.9.c

the settlement is not a qualifying trust within the meaning of section 34 or
35 of FA 2005 (trusts for the benefit of disabled persons or relevant minors);

10.3.24B.9.d

the settlement is not a heritage maintenance settlement within the meaning of
Chapter 10 of Part 9 (heritage maintenance settlements) (see section 507(2)
and (3)).

####### Low income estates: tax liability of beneficiaries

11

11.1

Chapter 6 of Part 5 of ITTOIA 2005 (beneficiaries’ income from estates in
administration) is amended as follows.

11.2

In section 649 (charge to tax on estate income), after subsection (1) insert—

11.2.1A

But income tax is not charged on estate income so far as that income consists
of a basic amount which section 679 treats as having been paid from de minimis
aggregate income.

11.2.1B

In  subsection (1A) , “ de minimis aggregate income ” means aggregate income
of an estate which is treated as bearing income tax at 0% because of section
680 (1A) .

11.3

In section 656 (income charged: UK estates), in subsection (1), for “tax is
charged under section 649” substitute  “the charge to tax under section 649 is
a charge” .

11.4

In section 657 (income charged: foreign estates), in subsection (1), for “tax
is charged under section 649” substitute  “the charge to tax under section 649
is a charge” .

11.5

In section 679 (income from which basic amounts are treated as paid)—

11.5.a

in subsection (3) (as amended by  paragraph 5 (a) ), at the end insert
“(subject to  subsection (3A) )” ;

11.5.b

after that subsection insert—

11.5.b.3A

For the purposes of assumption B, where those parts include—

11.5.b.3A.a

income bearing income tax at 0% by virtue of section 680 (1A) , and

11.5.b.3A.b

other income bearing income tax at 0%,

payments are to be made from income within  paragraph (a)  after income within
paragraph (b) .

11.6

In section 679A (income from which sums within section 668(1)(b) are treated
as paid) (inserted by  paragraph 2 (3) )—

11.6.a

in subsection (3), at the end insert  “(subject to  subsection (3A) )” ;

11.6.b

after that subsection insert—

11.6.b.3A

For the purposes of assumption B, where that income includes—

11.6.b.3A.a

income bearing income tax at 0% by virtue of section 680 (1A) , and

11.6.b.3A.b

other income bearing income tax at 0%,

sums are to be paid from income within  paragraph (a)  after income within
paragraph (b) .

11.7

In section 680 (income treated as bearing income tax)—

11.7.a

after subsection (1) insert—

11.7.a.1A

If, in the case of a UK estate, the aggregate income of the estate for a tax
year is equal to or less than the de minimis estates amount (within the
meaning of  section 24B  of ITA 2007), the aggregate income of the estate for
that tax year is treated as bearing income tax at 0%.

;

11.7.b

for subsection (2) substitute—

11.7.b.2

If—

11.7.b.2.a

subsection (1A)  does not apply to treat the aggregate income of the estate
for a tax year as bearing income tax at 0%, and

11.7.b.2.b

the aggregate income of the estate for that tax year includes a sum within
subsection  (2A)  or (4),

the sum is treated as bearing income tax at the rate specified for it in that
subsection.

;

11.7.c

in subsection (5), after “sums within this section” insert  “or from aggregate
income treated as bearing income tax at 0% by virtue of  subsection (1A) ” .

###### Corporation tax

####### Low income estates: tax liability of beneficiaries

12

12.1

Chapter 3 of Part 10 of CTA 2009 (beneficiaries’ income from estates in
administration) is amended as follows.

12.2

In section 934 (charge to tax on estate income), after subsection (1) insert—

12.2.1A

But corporation tax is not charged on estate income so far as that income
consists of a basic amount which section 962 treats as having been paid from
de minimis aggregate income.

12.2.1B

In  subsection (1A) , “ de minimis aggregate income ” means aggregate income
of an estate which is treated as bearing income tax at 0% because of section
963 (1A) .

12.3

In section 941 (income charged: UK estates), in subsection (1), for “tax is
charged under section 934” substitute  “the charge to tax under section 934 is
a charge” .

12.4

In section 942 (income charged: foreign estates), in subsection (1), for “tax
is charged under section 934” substitute  “the charge to tax under section 934
is a charge” .

12.5

In section 962 (income from which basic amounts are treated as paid)—

12.5.a

in subsection (3) (as amended by  paragraph 9 (a) ), at the end insert
“(subject to  subsection (3A) )” ;

12.5.b

after that subsection insert—

12.5.b.3A

For the purposes of assumption B, where those parts include—

12.5.b.3A.a

income bearing income tax at 0% by virtue of section 963 (1A) , and

12.5.b.3A.b

other income bearing income tax at 0%,

payments are to be made from income within  paragraph (a)  after income within
paragraph (b) .

12.6

In section 962A (income from which sums within section 951(1)(b) are treated
as paid) (inserted by  paragraph 7 (3) )—

12.6.a

in subsection (3), at the end insert  “(subject to  subsection (3A) )” ;

12.6.b

after that subsection insert—

12.6.b.3A

For the purposes of assumption B, where that income includes—

12.6.b.3A.a

income bearing income tax at 0% by virtue of section 963 (1A) , and

12.6.b.3A.b

other income bearing income tax at 0%,

sums are to be paid from income within  paragraph (a)  after income within
paragraph (b) .

12.7

In section 963 (income treated as bearing income tax)—

12.7.a

after subsection (1) insert—

12.7.a.1A

If, in the case of a UK estate, the aggregate income of the estate for a tax
year is equal to or less than the de minimis estates amount (within the
meaning of  section 24B  of ITA 2007), the aggregate income of the estate for
that tax year is treated as bearing income tax at 0%.

;

12.7.b

for subsection (2) substitute—

12.7.b.2

If—

12.7.b.2.a

subsection (1A)  does not apply to treat the aggregate income of the estate
for a tax year as bearing income tax at 0%, and

12.7.b.2.b

the aggregate income of the estate for that tax year includes a sum within
subsection (3),  (3A)  or (4),

the sum is treated as bearing income tax at the rate specified for it in that
subsection.

;

12.7.c

in subsection (5), after “sums within this section” insert  “or from aggregate
income treated as bearing income tax at 0% by virtue of  subsection (1A)  ” .

##### Rate of tax charged on trustees’ first slice of trust rate income: income tax

13

13.1

ITA 2007 is amended as follows.

13.2

Omit Chapter 6 of Part 9 (trustees’ first slice of trust rate income).

13.3

In consequence of the amendment made by  sub-paragraph (2) —

13.3.a

in section 2(9)(b) (overview of Act), for “4, 5 and 6” substitute  “4 and 5” ;

13.3.b

in section 11(2) (income charged at the default basic rate: non- individuals),
for “6” substitute  “5” ;

13.3.c

in section 14(2) (income charged at the dividend ordinary rate: other
persons), for “6” substitute  “5” ;

13.3.d

in section 15 (income charged at the trust rate and the dividend trust rate),
for “6” substitute  “5” ;

13.3.e

in section 16(2) (savings and dividend income to be treated as highest part of
total income) omit paragraph (a) (and the “and” after it);

13.3.f

in section 23 (the calculation of income tax liability), in Step 4, for “6”
substitute  “5” ;

13.3.g

in section 462 (overview of Part 9) omit subsection (6);

13.3.h

in section 484 (trustees’ expenses to be set against trustees’ trust rate
income) omit subsection (3);

13.3.i

in section 498 (types of income tax for the purposes of section 497) omit Type
4.

##### Commencement

14

14.1

The amendments made by this Schedule have effect as follows.

14.2

In  Part 1 —

14.2.a

the amendments made by  Chapter 1  have effect in relation to the tax year
2023-24 and subsequent tax years;

14.2.b

the amendments made by  Chapter 2  have effect in relation to accounting
periods beginning on or after 1 April 2023.

14.3

In  Part 2 —

14.3.a

the amendments made by  Chapter 1  have effect in relation to the tax year
2024-25 and subsequent tax years;

14.3.b

the amendments made by  Chapter 2  have effect in relation to accounting
periods beginning on or after 1 April 2024;

14.4

The amendments made by  Part 3  have effect in relation to the tax year
2024-25 and subsequent tax years.

                 Corporate interest restriction etc.

Section 34

##### Amendments to TIOPA 2010

###### Introduction

1

Part 10 of TIOPA 2010 (corporate interest restriction) is amended as follows.

###### Tax-interest expense amounts of a company: charities

2

In section 382 (the tax-interest expense amounts of a company), after
subsection (1) insert—

2.1A

But, in the case of a company which is a charity (as defined in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 6 to FA 2010) at the end of the period of account, references in this
Part to a “tax-interest expense amount” of the company do not include
references to an amount which meets Condition A, B or C.

###### First period of account where new holding company

3

In section 395A (carry forward of interest allowance: new holding company),
for subsection (3) substitute—

3.3

For the purposes of this Chapter and Chapter 5—

3.3.a

so far as it would not otherwise be the case—

3.3.a.i

the first period of account of the new group is treated as beginning with the
day on which the qualifying takeover occurs (the “takeover day”), and

3.3.a.ii

the last period of account of the old group is treated as ending on the day
before the takeover day;

3.3.b

the interest allowance of the new group is determined as if periods of account
of the old group which ended before the beginning of the first period of
account of the new group were periods of account of the new group.

4

In section 400A (carry forward of excess debt cap: new holding company), in
subsection (3)—

4.a

for “the group’s fixed ratio debt cap” substitute  “the new group’s fixed
ratio debt cap” ;

4.b

for “ending immediately before the qualifying takeover” substitute  “ending on
the day before the takeover day (see section 395A(3))” .

###### Amounts not brought into account in determining a company’s tax-EBITDA

5

5.1

Section 407(1) (amounts not brought into account in determining a company’s
tax-EBITDA) is amended as follows.

5.2

At the end of paragraph (a) insert  “(or an amount which would, apart from
section 388, be a tax-interest income amount);” .

5.3

After paragraph (g) insert—

5.3.ga

a reduction under paragraph 37(3)(b) of Schedule 5 to FA 2019 (non-UK resident
companies carrying on UK property businesses etc: unrelieved amounts);

.

###### “Relevant expense amount” and “relevant income amount”

6

6.1

Section 411 (“ relevant expense amount ” and “ relevant income amount ”) is
amended as follows.

6.2

For subsection (1)(j) substitute—

6.2.j

debits that are brought into account under Part 5 of CTA 2009 as a result of
section 481 of that Act (relevant non-lending relationships), or would be so
brought into account if the company in question were within the charge to
corporation tax, other than—

6.2.j.i

exchange losses, or

6.2.j.ii

impairment losses;

.

6.3

For subsection (2)(h) substitute—

6.3.h

credits that are brought into account under Part 5 of CTA 2009 as a result of
section 481 of that Act (relevant non-lending relationships), or would be so
brought into account if the company in question were within the charge to
corporation tax, other than—

6.3.h.i

exchange gains, or

6.3.h.ii

the reversal of impairment losses;

.

7

In section 412 (interpretation of section 411), in subsection (7), omit the
definition of “relevant non-lending relationship”.

###### Adjusted net group-interest expense: debits referable to times before UK property business etc carried on

8

8.1

Section 413 (adjusted net group-interest expense) is amended as follows.

8.2

In subsection (3) (upward adjustment), after paragraph (c) insert—

8.2.ca

an amount in respect of a loan relationship that is brought into account by a
member of the group, for a relevant accounting period in relation to the
period of account, under section 330ZA CTA 2009 (debits referable to times
before UK property business etc carried on) so far as that amount has not been
included in the adjusted net group-interest expense of the group for any
earlier period of account;

8.2.cb

an amount in respect of a relevant derivative contract that would be brought
into account by a member of the group, for a relevant accounting period in
relation to the period of account, under section 607ZA of CTA 2009, if an
election under regulation 6A of the Disregard Regulations (as defined in
section 421) had effect in relation to the contract, so far as the relevant
amount has not been included in the adjusted net group-interest expense of the
group for any earlier period of account;

8.2.cc

a relevant income amount in respect of a loan relationship or a relevant
derivative contract to which a member of the group is a party that—

8.2.cc.i

is recognised in the financial statements of the group for the period,

8.2.cc.ii

is not brought into account by a member of the group, for a relevant
accounting period in relation to the period of account, and

8.2.cc.iii

is expected to be brought into account, or (in the case of a relevant
derivative contract) would, if an election under regulation 6A of the
Disregard Regulations had effect in relation to the contract, be expected to
be brought into account, by a member of the group, for another accounting
period, under section 330ZA or section 607ZA of CTA 2009;

.

8.3

In subsection (4) (downward adjustment), after paragraph (c) insert—

8.3.ca

a relevant expense amount, in respect of a loan relationship or a relevant
derivative contract to which a member of the group is a party, that—

8.3.ca.i

is recognised in the financial statements of the group for the period,

8.3.ca.ii

is not brought into account by a member of the group, for a relevant
accounting period in relation to the period of account, and

8.3.ca.iii

is expected to be brought into account, or (in the case of a relevant
derivative contract) would, if an election under regulation 6A of the
Disregard Regulations had effect in relation to the contract, be expected to
be brought into account, by a member of the group, for another accounting
period, under section 330ZA or section 607ZA of CTA 2009;

.

8.4

At the end insert—

8.4.7

Subsection (8) applies, unless the reporting company elects otherwise, in
relation to a period of account of a worldwide group—

8.4.7.a

ending on or after 6 April 2020, and

8.4.7.b

beginning before 1 April 2023.

8.4.8

In relation to the period of account—

8.4.8.a

no amount within any of paragraphs (ca) to (cc) of subsection (3) is to be
treated as an “upward adjustment”, and

8.4.8.b

no amount within paragraph (ca) of subsection (4) is to be treated as a
“downward adjustment”.

###### Adjusted net group-interest expense: debits in respect of pre-trading expenditure

9

9.1

Section 413 (adjusted net group-interest expense) is amended as follows.

9.2

In subsection (3) (upward adjustment), after paragraph (cc) (inserted by
paragraph 8 of this Schedule) insert—

9.2.cd

an amount that is brought into account by a member of the group, for a
relevant accounting period in relation to the period of account, under section
330(3) of CTA 2009 (debits in respect of pre-trading expenditure) in
accordance with an election made under section 330(1)(b) of that Act, so far
as that amount has not been included in the adjusted net group-interest
expense of the group for any earlier period of account;

.

9.3

In subsection (4) (downward adjustment), after paragraph (ca) (inserted by
paragraph 8 of this Schedule) insert—

9.3.cb

an amount, in respect of a loan relationship to which a member of the group is
a party, that—

9.3.cb.i

is recognised in the financial statements of the group for the period, but

9.3.cb.ii

is prevented from being brought into account in accordance with an election
made under section 330(1)(b) of CTA 2009 (debits in respect of pre-trading
expenditure);

.

###### Qualifying net group-interest expense: meaning of “equity notes”

10

In section 414 (qualifying net-group interest expense), in subsection (3), at
the beginning of paragraph (c) insert  “relevant” .

11

In section 415 (qualifying net group-interest expense: interpretation), for
subsection (7) substitute—

11.7

For the purposes of section 414(3)(c), a “relevant equity note” is a security
that—

11.7.a

is an equity note within the meaning of section 1016 of CTA 2010, by reference
to satisfying a test in subsection (2) of that section, and

11.7.b

would satisfy that test if the “ permitted period ” for the purposes of that
section were the period of 100 years beginning with the date of the security’s
issue.

###### Capitalised interest brought into account for tax purposes in accordance with GAAP

12

12.1

Section 423 (capitalised interest brought into account for tax purposes in
accordance with GAAP) is amended as follows.

12.2

After subsection (2A) insert—

12.2.2AA

Section 413 has effect, in the case of a GAAP-taxable asset within subsection
(2AB), as if—

12.2.2AA.a

the definition of “upward adjustment” included so much of its carrying value
as is attributable to a relevant expense amount (whether or not that amount is
brought into account in the group’s financial statements for the relevant
period of account); and

12.2.2AA.b

the definition of “downward adjustment” included so much of its carrying value
as is attributable to a relevant income amount (whether or not that amount is
brought into account in the group’s financial statements for the relevant
period of account).

12.2.2AB

A GAAP-taxable asset is within this subsection if it is (or, under section 173
of TCGA 1992, is treated as being) appropriated, in a relevant accounting
period in relation to a period of account, from trading stock to fixed assets.

12.3

In subsection (3), for “(2)(b) and (2A)” substitute  “(2)(b), (2A) and (2AA)”
.

###### Interest allowance (non-consolidated investment) election: “non-consolidated associate”

13

13.1

Section 429 (meaning of “ non-consolidated associate ”) is amended as follows.

13.2

In subsection (1), for “or C” substitute  “, C or D” .

13.3

In subsection (2), in the words before paragraph (a), for “the entity”
substitute  “the ultimate parent’s interest in the entity” .

13.4

After subsection (4) insert—

13.4.4A

Condition D is that—

13.4.4A.a

the entity is—

13.4.4A.a.i

a partnership, or

13.4.4A.a.ii

a transparent entity (other than a partnership), and

13.4.4A.b

the ultimate parent’s interest in the entity is accounted for in the financial
statements of the group for the relevant period of account on the basis of
fair value accounting.

13.5

For subsection (6) substitute—

13.5.6

For the purposes of this section—

13.5.6.a

“ entity ” includes anything which may be treated as an entity for accounting
purposes (regardless of whether it has a legal personality as a body
corporate);

13.5.6.b

an entity is “transparent” if—

13.5.6.b.i

it is not chargeable to corporation tax or income tax as a person (ignoring
any exemptions), or

13.5.6.b.ii

it is a collective investment vehicle which is “ transparent for income tax
purposes ” for the purposes of paragraph 8 of Schedule 5AAA to TCGA 1992 (see
paragraph 8(7) of that Schedule).

###### Public infrastructure

14

14.1

Section 435 (group elections modifying the operation of sections 433 and 434)
is amended as follows.

14.2

In subsection (1), after “worldwide group” insert  “, and have each made an
election under section 433,” .

14.3

In subsection (2)—

14.3.a

before paragraph (a) insert—

14.3.a.aa

must be made before the end of the earliest elected accounting period (see
subsection (11));

;

14.3.b

in paragraph (a), after “election” insert  “, which may not be before the
first day of the earliest elected accounting period” .

14.4

In subsection (3), for “an election, revocation” substitute  “a revocation” .

14.5

At the end insert—

14.5.11

The “earliest elected accounting period” is the accounting period which—

14.5.11.a

is the first elected accounting period of an elected company, and

14.5.11.b

begins no later than the first elected accounting period of each other elected
company.

14.5.12

For the purposes of subsection (11), the “first elected accounting period” of
an elected company is the first of the company’s accounting periods in
relation to which the election is to have effect.

14.5.13

If there is more than one earliest elected accounting period under subsection
(11) and those periods (the “relevant periods”) do not all end on the same
date, the “earliest elected accounting period” is the relevant period that
ends no later than each of the other relevant periods.

15

15.1

Section 436 (meaning of “ qualifying infrastructure activity ”) is amended as
follows.

15.2

In subsection (5), for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute—

15.2.a

the building or part is, or is to be, let on a short-term basis —

15.2.a.i

within a UK property business carried on by the company, or another member of
the worldwide group of which it is a member at that time, and

15.2.a.ii

to persons who, at that time, are not related parties of the company or
member.

15.3

After subsection (5) insert—

15.3.5A

But a building, or part of a building, is not a public infrastructure asset in
relation to a company at a particular time if, were the building or part to be
disposed of at that time, profits arising from the disposal would be charged
to corporation tax as profits of a trade.

16

After section 438 insert—

########## Application of section 438: certain creditors treated as qualifying infrastructure companies

16.438A

16.438A.1

This section applies where—

16.438A.1.a

a company (“ C ”), at a time in the period mentioned in subsection (1) of
section 438—

16.438A.1.a.i

is a member of the worldwide group of which the qualifying infrastructure
company mentioned in that subsection is a member, but

16.438A.1.a.ii

is not a UK group company; and

16.438A.1.b

C is a creditor in relation to an amount which—

16.438A.1.b.i

is a relevant loan relationship debit (as defined in section 383) for the
debtor company, or

16.438A.1.b.ii

would be a relevant loan relationship debit if the debtor company were UK
resident.

16.438A.2

For the purposes of section 438, C is treated in relation to the amount
mentioned in subsection (1)(b) (the “relevant loan amount”) as a qualifying
infrastructure company if—

16.438A.2.a

throughout the period mentioned in section 438(1), C—

16.438A.2.a.i

meets the public infrastructure income test for the accounting period (see
subsections (2) to (4) of section 433) and subsection (3) of this section),
and

16.438A.2.a.ii

meets the public infrastructure assets test for the accounting period (see
subsections (5) to (10) of that section and subsection (4) of this section),

(but does not satisfy the conditions in subsection (1)(c) and (d) of section
433);

16.438A.2.b

the loan to which the relevant loan amount relates (the “relevant loan”) is
fully funded by another loan (the “corresponding loan”) made to C for that
purpose and on substantially the same terms as the relevant loan; and

16.438A.2.c

amounts arising to C in respect of the corresponding loan would, if section
438(2) applied to C, qualify as “exempt amounts” within the meaning of that
subsection.

16.438A.3

For the purposes of subsection (2)(a)(i), C is also treated as meeting the
public infrastructure income test for an accounting period if all, or all but
an insignificant proportion, of its income for the period derives from—

16.438A.3.a

anything listed in any of paragraphs (a) to (c) of section 433(2),

16.438A.3.b

shares in, or debt issued by, a company that meets the test in section 433(2)
for that period,

16.438A.3.c

shares in or debt issued by a company that is treated as meeting the public
infrastructure income test for that period by reason of this subsection.

16.438A.4

For the purposes of subsection (2)(a)(ii), C is also treated as meeting the
public infrastructure assets test for an accounting period if all, or all but
an insignificant proportion, of the total value of the company's assets
recognised in an appropriate balance sheet on each day in that period derives
from—

16.438A.4.a

anything listed in any of paragraphs (a) to (e) of section 433(5),

16.438A.4.b

shares in, or debt issued by, a company that meets the test in section 433(5)
for that period,

16.438A.4.c

shares in or debt issued by a company that is treated as meeting the public
infrastructure assets test for that period by reason of this subsection.

16.438A.5

For the purposes of determining whether amounts arising to C would qualify as
exempt amounts under section 438(2) (for the purposes of subsection (2)(c) of
this section), the recourse of a creditor is treated as being limited to
relevant infrastructure matters if, in the event that C fails to perform its
obligations in question, the recourse of the creditor is limited to—

16.438A.5.a

anything listed in paragraphs (a) to (c) of section 438(4),

16.438A.5.b

shares in or debt issued by a company whose income and assets consist wholly
of income and assets within those paragraphs,

16.438A.5.c

shares in or debt issued by a company whose income and assets consist wholly
of income and assets within paragraphs (a) or (b) of this subsection, or

16.438A.5.d

shares in or debt issued by a company whose income and assets consists wholly
of income and assets within paragraphs (a) to (c) of this subsection, and so
on.

16.438A.6

For the purposes of subsection (5), in determining whether a company’s income
and assets consists wholly of income and assets of a particular description,
any source of income or any asset is ignored if, having regard to all the
circumstances, it is reasonable to regard as insignificant the amount of
income arising from the source, or (as the case may be) the value of the asset
recognised, in the accounting period.

###### Partnerships and other transparent entities

17

In section 447 (partnerships and other transparent entities), for subsection
(6) substitute—

17.6

For the purposes of this section an entity is “transparent” if—

17.6.a

it is not chargeable to corporation tax or income tax as a person (ignoring
any exemptions), or

17.6.b

it is a collective investment vehicle which is “ transparent for income tax
purposes ” for the purposes of paragraph 8 of Schedule 5AAA to TCGA 1992 (see
paragraph 8(7) of that Schedule).

###### Investments held by investment managers

18

18.1

Section 454A (investments held by investment managers) is amended as follows.

18.2

In subsection (1)(a), for “is a member of a worldwide group” substitute
“would, apart from this section, be a member of a worldwide group” .

18.3

After subsection (1) insert—

18.3.1A

Except in a case within subsection (2), for the purposes of this Part—

18.3.1A.a

the group does not include S (or its subsidiaries), and

18.3.1A.b

accordingly, none of those entities is regarded as a consolidated subsidiary
of any member of the group.

18.4

In subsection (2), for “For the purposes of this Part” substitute  “Where S is
a partnership or another transparent entity, for the purposes of this Part” .

###### Determining the worldwide group: “non-consolidated subsidiary” and “consolidated subsidiary”

19

19.1

Section 475 (meaning of “ non-consolidated subsidiary ” and “ consolidated
subsidiary ”) is amended as follows.

19.2

In subsection (1)(b), omit “or on the basis that X were an asset held for sale
or held for distribution to owners”.

19.3

For subsection (3) substitute—

19.3.3

In this section “ subsidiary ” has the meaning given by international
accounting standards.

###### Appointment of a reporting company by Revenue and Customs

20

In paragraph 4 of Schedule 7A (appointment of a reporting company by Revenue
and Customs), in sub-paragraph (5)(a) for “36 months” substitute  “4 years” .

###### Revised interest restriction return

21

21.1

Paragraph 8 of Schedule 7A (revised interest restriction return) is amended as
follows.

21.2

For sub-paragraph (4) substitute—

21.2.4

Where any of the figures contained in the previous interest restriction return
have become incorrect (whether or not as a result of a member of the group
amending, or being treated as amending, its company tax return), the reporting
company must submit a revised interest restriction return (for the purpose of
correcting those figures) to an officer of Revenue and Customs.

21.3

For sub-paragraph (5) substitute—

21.3.5

A revised interest restriction return submitted under sub-paragraph (4) is of
no effect unless it is received by an officer of Revenue and Customs before
the end of—

21.3.5.a

the period of 3 months beginning with the relevant day, or

21.3.5.b

in a case where sub-paragraph (5B) applies, such longer period as an officer
of Revenue and Customs may allow.

21.3.5A

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (5), the “relevant day” is—

21.3.5A.a

where the figures contained in the previous interest restriction return have
become incorrect as the result of a member of the group amending, or being
treated as amending, an amount stated in its company tax return, the first day
on which that amount can no longer be altered (within the meaning of paragraph
88(3) to (5) of Schedule 18 to FA 1998);

21.3.5A.b

in any other case, the day on which the figures contained in the previous
interest restriction return were found to have become incorrect.

21.3.5B

This sub-paragraph applies where an officer of Revenue and Customs considers
that, as a result of an enquiry into a company tax return of another member of
the group, the reporting company may subsequently be required to submit
another revised interest restriction return under sub-paragraph (4).

21.3.5C

A revised interest restriction return submitted under sub-paragraph (4) may
differ from the previous return only so far as the differences are in
consequence of the correction referred to in that sub-paragraph.

22

22.1

Paragraph 29 of Schedule 7A (penalty for failure to deliver a return) is
amended as follows.

22.2

In sub-paragraph (1)—

22.2.a

in paragraph (a), after “paragraph 7” insert  “, or a revised interest
restriction return under paragraph 8(4),” ;

22.2.b

in paragraph (b), omit “(see sub-paragraph (5) of that paragraph)”.

22.3

After sub-paragraph (1), insert—

22.3.1A

In subsection (1)(b), the reference to the “ filing date ” in relation to a
period of account is—

22.3.1A.a

in relation to an interest restriction return under paragraph 7, a reference
to the filing date for the purposes of that paragraph (see paragraph 7(5) and
(5A));

22.3.1A.b

in relation to a revised interest restriction return under paragraph 8(4), a
reference to the end of the period within which the return may have effect
(see paragraph 8(5)).

###### Enquiry into interest restriction return

23

In paragraph 41 of Schedule 7A (normal time limits for opening enquiry), in
sub-paragraph (2)—

23.a

omit paragraph (b) (but not the “and” at the end), and

23.b

in paragraph (c), after “receives the” insert  “return or” .

###### Determinations by officers of Revenue and Customs

24

24.1

Paragraph 56 of Schedule 7A (power of Revenue and Customs to make
determinations where no return filed etc) is amended as follows.

24.2

For sub-paragraph (1)(b) (but not the “and” at the end) substitute—

24.2.b

the filing date in relation to the relevant period of account has passed (see
paragraph 7(5)),

.

24.3

In sub-paragraph (1)(c)—

24.3.a

omit “A,”;

24.3.b

for “or C” substitute  “, C or D” .

24.4

Omit sub-paragraphs (2) and (3).

24.5

After sub-paragraph (5) insert—

24.5.5A

Condition D is that—

24.5.5A.a

the appointment of a reporting company has effect in relation to the relevant
period of account,

24.5.5A.b

the reporting company is required to submit a revised interest restriction
return for the period under paragraph 8(4), and

24.5.5A.c

the time limit in paragraph 8(5) for the submission of the revised return has
passed without the revised return being received by an officer of Revenue and
Customs.

24.6

In sub-paragraph (9)—

24.6.a

after “made” insert

—

24.6.a.a

in a case where Condition D is met, after the end of the period of 12 months
beginning with the expiry of the time limit mentioned in paragraph 8(5), and

24.6.a.b

in any other case,

;

24.6.b

for “the determination date” substitute  “the filing date referred to in sub-
paragraph (1)(b)” .

###### Consequential claims to company tax returns

25

In paragraph 72 of Schedule 7A (consequential claims to company tax returns),
in sub-paragraph (1)(a) omit “56 or”.

##### Other amendments

###### Penalties for errors: CIR alterations to be ignored in calculating potential lost revenue

26

26.1

Paragraph 5 of Schedule 24 to FA 2007 (penalties for errors: calculating
potential lost revenue) is amended as follows.

26.2

In sub-paragraph (4), before paragraph (a) insert—

26.2.za

any CIR alteration, other than a permitted reduction, in respect of the tax
period to which the document relates,

.

26.3

At the end insert—

26.3.5

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (4)(za)—

26.3.5.a

a “ CIR alteration ” means an alteration made to an amount disallowed, or
reactivated, under Part 10 of the Taxation (International and Other
Provisions) Act 2010 as a result of the submission of a revised interest
restriction return under paragraph 8(4) of Schedule 7A to that Act;

26.3.5.b

a CIR alteration is a “permitted reduction” if it has the effect of—

26.3.5.b.i

reducing the allocated disallowance of a company by no more than the relevant
proportion, or

26.3.5.b.ii

increasing the allocated reactivation of a company by no more than the
relevant proportion.

26.3.5.c

the “relevant proportion” is—

26.3.5.c.i

for the purposes of paragraph (b)(i), the proportion by which the total
disallowed amount of the worldwide group for the period is reduced, as a
result of the submission of the revised interest restriction return;

26.3.5.c.ii

for the purposes of paragraph (b)(ii) the proportion by which the interest
reactivation cap of the worldwide group is increased, as a result of the
submission of the revised interest restriction return.

26.3.6

In sub-paragraph (5), the following terms have the same meaning as in Part 10
of the Taxation (International and Other Provisions) Act 2010—

                                                                        “
allocated disallowance ” (see paragraph 22(2) of Schedule 7A to that Act);
“ allocated reactivation ” (see paragraph 25(2) of that Schedule);
“ total disallowed amount of the worldwide group ” and “ interest reactivation
cap of the worldwide group ” (see section 373 of that Act).

###### Disapplication of carry forward rule for deficits

27

27.1

Section 457 of CTA 2009 (basic rule for deficits: carry forward to accounting
periods after deficit period) is amended as follows.

27.2

In subsection (1), after “section 458” insert  “(subject to subsection (2A))”
.

27.3

After subsection (2) insert—

27.3.2A

If the company is a charity at the end of the deficit period, the deficit may
not be carried forward and set off against non-trading profits (as described
in subsection (1)) for an accounting period (and, accordingly, the deficit may
not be surrendered as group relief under Part 5 of CTA 2010 for the purposes
of subsection (2)(a)).

###### Defined expressions used in Part 10 of TIOPA 2010: “insurance company”

28

28.1

In section 494 of TIOPA 2010 (other interpretation), at the end insert—

28.1.3

The definition of “insurance company” in section 65 of FA 2012 (which is
applicable to this Part as a result of section 141(2) of that Act) has effect
for the purposes of this Part as if, in subsection (2)(a), the reference to
Part 4A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 included a reference to
the law of a territory outside the United Kingdom which is similar to or
corresponds to that Part.

28.2

In Part 7 of Schedule 11 to that Act (index of defined expressions), in the
entry relating to an insurance company, in the second column, for “section 141
of FA 2012” substitute  “section 494(3)” .

###### Determining the worldwide group: consequential amendment

29

In Part 1 of Schedule 8 to FA 2018 (corporate interest restriction: amendments
of Part 10 of TIOPA 2010), omit paragraph 13.

##### Parts 1 and 2: commencement and transitional provision

30

Except as provided in  paragraphs 31  to  35 , the amendments made by  Parts 1
and  2  of  this Schedule  have effect for periods of account of worldwide
groups that begin on or after 1 April 2023.

31

The amendments made by  paragraph 5 (1)  and  (3)  have effect for periods of
account of worldwide groups ending on or after 6 April 2020.

32

32.1

The amendments made by  paragraph 8  have effect for periods of account of
worldwide groups ending on or after 6 April 2020.

32.2

Sub-paragraph (3) applies if—

32.2.a

in accordance with Schedule 7A to TIOPA 2010, a reporting company has
submitted an interest restriction return for a period of account of a
worldwide group ending—

32.2.a.i

on or after 6 April 2020, but

32.2.a.ii

before the day on which this Act is passed; and

32.2.b

any of the figures in the interest restriction return have become incorrect as
a result of the amendments made by  paragraph 8  (including as a result of an
election made under section 413(7) of TIOPA 2010).

32.3

A revised interest restriction return submitted under paragraph 8 of Schedule
7A to TIOPA 2010 has effect (so far as that would not otherwise be the case)
if it is received before the end of the period of 3 months beginning with the
day on which this Act is passed.

33

The amendments made by  paragraph 9  have effect for periods of account of
worldwide groups in relation to which an election under section 330 of CTA
2009 is made, in respect of a relevant accounting period, on or after the day
on which this Act is passed.

34

The amendments made by  paragraphs 2 ,  14  to  16 , and  27 , have effect for
accounting periods that begin on or after 1 April 2023.

35

The amendment made by  paragraph 20  has effect in relation to appointments of
reporting companies made, and the amendments made by  paragraph 24 (1) ,  (2)
,  (3) (a) ,  (4)  and (6)(b) have effect in relation to determinations made,
on or after the day on which this Act is passed.

36

References in  this Part  of  this Schedule  to periods of account of
worldwide groups have the same meaning as in Part 10 of TIOPA 2010 (see
section 480 of that Act).

##### Tax treatment of financing costs and income

37

This Part of this Schedule applies if—

37.a

a company (“ C ”) was, for the purposes of Part 7 of TIOPA 2010, a member of a
worldwide group in a period of account of the group beginning before 1 April
2017,

37.b

the reporting body has, in relation to that period of account, submitted—

37.b.i

a statement of disallowances under section 278 or 279 of TIOPA 2010, and

37.b.ii

a statement of allocated exemptions under section 290 or 291 of that Act,

37.c

after the submission of the statement mentioned in sub-paragraph (b), the
total disallowed amount of the worldwide group for that period of account is
reduced (as a result of an enquiry into C’s company tax for a relevant
accounting period or otherwise),

37.d

as a result of the reduction in the total disallowed amount, the sum of the
amounts specified in the statement of allocated exemptions under section
292(4)(b) of TIOPA 2010 exceeds the limit specified in section 292(6) of that
Act,

37.e

on or after 15 March 2023, the reporting body submits a revised statement of
disallowances under section 279 of TIOPA 2010, and

37.f

the revised statement of disallowances is treated, under regulation 13 of the
2009 Regulations, as if it had been received by HMRC by the time specified in
section 279(2) of TIOPA 2010.

38

38.1

Part 7 of TIOPA 2010 has effect in relation to the worldwide group as if the
revised statement of disallowances had not been submitted unless—

38.1.a

on or after 15 March 2023, the reporting body also submits a revised statement
of allocated exemptions under section 291 of TIOPA 2010, and

38.1.b

the revised statement of allocated exemptions is treated, under regulation 28
of the 2009 Regulations or under sub-paragraph (2), as if it had been received
by HMRC by the time specified in section 291(2) of TIOPA 2010.

38.2

Where the revised statement of allocated exemptions mentioned in sub-paragraph
(1)(a) is received by HMRC before the end of the period of 30 days beginning
with the day on which this Act comes into force, it is treated for the
purposes of this Part (and of the application of Part 7 of TIOPA 2010 for the
purposes of this Part) as if it had been received by HMRC by the time
specified in section 291(2) of TIOPA 2010.

38.3

If the revised statement of disallowances referred to in  paragraph 37 (e)
specifies that no financing expense amounts for the relevant period of account
are to be disallowed, the requirement in section 280(4) of TIOPA 2010 does not
apply in relation to the statement.

38.4

If the revised statement of allocated exemptions referred to in  sub-paragraph
(1) (a)  specifies that no financing income amounts for the relevant period of
account are to be exempted, the requirement in section 292(4) of TIOPA 2010
does not apply in relation to the statement.

39

For the purposes of this Part (and of the application of Part 7 of TIOPA 2010
for the purposes of this Part) references to the “ reporting body ” include
references to C unless—

39.a

the ultimate parent of the worldwide group notifies HMRC that another company
is the reporting body for those purposes,

39.b

the other company is—

39.b.i

for the purposes of  paragraph 37 , a company to which Chapter 3 of Part 7 of
TIOPA 2010 applies, or

39.b.ii

for the purposes of  paragraph 38 (1) , a company to which Chapter 4 of Part 7
of TIOPA 2010 applies, and

39.c

the notice is given before the end of the period within which the revised
statement of disallowances mentioned in  paragraph 37 (f)  would be treated,
under regulation 13 of the 2009 Regulations, as if it had been received by
HMRC by the time specified in section 279(2) of TIOPA 2010.

40

40.1

References in this Part to any provision of Part 7 of TIOPA 2010, or of the
2009 Regulations, are references to that provision as it continues to have
effect in relation to—

40.1.a

periods of account of the worldwide group ending before 1 April 2017, and

40.1.b

where financial statements of the worldwide group are drawn up in respect of a
period that begins before, and ends on or after, 1 April 2017, the period—

40.1.b.i

beginning at the time the straddling period of account (as defined in
paragraph 26(3)(b) of Schedule 5 to F(No.2)A 2017) begins, and

40.1.b.ii

ending with 31 March 2017.

40.2

In this Part, the “ 2009 Regulations ” means the Corporation Tax (Financing
Costs and Income) Regulations 2009 ( S.I. 2009/3173 ).

40.3

Terms used in this Part and in Part 7 of TIOPA 2010 have the same meaning as
in that Part of that Act.

                 Investment vehicles

Section 35

##### UK property rich collective investment vehicles etc

###### Genuine diversity of ownership

1

1.1

Schedule 5AAA to TCGA 1992 is amended as follows.

1.2

In paragraph 7 (appropriate connection)—

1.2.a

in sub-paragraph (5)—

1.2.a.i

in paragraph (a), for “it meets” substitute  “the vehicle meets or, if the
vehicle is part of multi-vehicle arrangements, the arrangements meet” ;

1.2.a.ii

in paragraph (b), for “it meets” substitute  “the vehicle meets, or those
multi-vehicle arrangements meet,” ;

1.2.a.iii

omit the words after paragraph (b);

1.2.b

after that sub-paragraph insert—

1.2.b.5A

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (5), those Regulations have effect as if
references to a fund included—

1.2.b.5A.a

multi-vehicle arrangements, and

1.2.b.5A.b

a collective investment vehicle which is not an offshore fund.

;

1.2.c

after sub-paragraph (7) insert—

1.2.c.8

In this Schedule “ multi-vehicle arrangements ” means arrangements comprising
two or more vehicles under which an investor in one of those vehicles would
reasonably regard that investment as an investment in the arrangements as a
whole rather than exclusively in any particular vehicle.

1.3

In paragraph 13 (qualifying conditions)—

1.3.a

in sub-paragraph (3)—

1.3.a.i

in paragraph (a), for “it meets” substitute  “the scheme meets or, if the
scheme is part of multi-vehicle arrangements, the arrangements meet” ;

1.3.a.ii

in paragraph (b), for “it meets” substitute  “the scheme meets, or those
multi-vehicle arrangements meet,” ;

1.3.a.iii

omit the words after paragraph (b);

1.3.b

after that sub-paragraph insert—

1.3.b.3A

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3), those Regulations have effect as if
references to a fund included—

1.3.b.3A.a

multi-vehicle arrangements, and

1.3.b.3A.b

a collective investment scheme which is not an offshore fund.

1.4

In paragraph 46 (meaning of qualifying investor etc)—

1.4.a

in sub-paragraph (4)—

1.4.a.i

in paragraph (a), for “it meets” substitute  “the vehicle meets or, if the
vehicle is part of multi-vehicle arrangements, the arrangements meet” ;

1.4.a.ii

in paragraph (b), for “it meets” substitute  “the vehicle meets, or those
multi-vehicle arrangements meet,” ;

1.4.a.iii

omit the words after paragraph (b);

1.4.b

after that sub-paragraph insert—

1.4.b.4A

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (4), those Regulations have effect as if
references to a fund included—

1.4.b.4A.a

multi-vehicle arrangements, and

1.4.b.4A.b

a collective investment vehicle which is not an offshore fund.

1.5

In paragraph 46A (application of diversity of ownership condition), after sub-
paragraph (3) insert—

1.5.4

Where the collective investment vehicle is part of multi-vehicle arrangements,
sub-paragraphs (2) and (3) apply as if references to the vehicle included the
multi-vehicle arrangements.

1.6

In paragraph 47 (other definitions), in sub-paragraph (1) at the appropriate
place insert—

                                                      “ multi-vehicle
arrangements ” has the meaning given by paragraph 7(8);

.

1.7

In paragraph 51 (genuine diversity of ownership condition in case of funds
existing before 6 April 2020), after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

1.7.3

Where the collective investment vehicle is part of multi-vehicle arrangements,
sub-paragraph (2) applies as if references to the vehicle included the multi-
vehicle arrangements.

##### Real estate investment trusts

###### Amendment of CTA 2010

2

CTA 2010 is amended in accordance with  paragraphs 3  to  5 .

###### REITs involving single commercial property

3

3.1

In section 527 (being a UK REIT in relation to an accounting period)—

3.1.a

in subsection (2)(b), after “met” insert  “or in relation to which condition C
is met” ;

3.1.b

in subsection (3)(b) after “met” insert  “or in relation to which condition C
is met” .

3.2

In section 529 (conditions as to property rental business)—

3.2.a

after subsection (2) insert—

3.2.a.2A

Condition C is that the property rental business involves at least 1 property—

3.2.a.2A.a

the value of which is equal to, or exceeds, £20 million at the relevant time,
and

3.2.a.2A.b

which is designed, fitted or equipped for the purpose of being rented, and is
rented or available for rent, as a commercial unit.

3.2.a.2B

For the purposes of subsection (2A) the “ relevant time ” means—

3.2.a.2B.a

where the group or company is a UK REIT and its property rental business
previously met conditions A and B, the first day on which at least one of
those conditions ceased to be met, or

3.2.a.2B.b

otherwise, entry.

;

3.2.b

in subsection (3), for “and B” substitute  “to C” ;

3.2.c

in subsection (4), in the words before paragraph (a), for “and B” substitute
“to C” .

3.3

In section 561—

3.3.a

in subsection (3) for “conditions A and B in section 529 (property rental
business)” substitute  “the property rental business condition” ;

3.3.b

after that subsection insert—

3.3.b.3A

For the purposes of this section, and sections 563 and 575, the “property
rental business condition” is met if either conditions A and B or condition C
in section 529 (property rental business) are met.

3.4

In section 563 (breach of conditions as to property rental business)—

3.4.a

in the heading, for “conditions as to property rental business” substitute
“property rental business condition” ;

3.4.b

in subsection (1), for “condition A or B in section 529 (property rental
business)” substitute  “the property rental business condition (see section
561(3A))” .

3.5

In section 575 (breach of conditions as to property rental business)—

3.5.a

in subsection (1), for “condition A or B in section 529 (property rental
business)” substitute  “the property rental business condition (see section
561(3A))” ;

3.5.b

in subsection (2)—

3.5.b.i

omit the “or” after paragraph (a);

3.5.b.ii

at the end of paragraph (b) insert

, or

3.5.b.ii.c

more than twice in relation to Condition C in that section.

;

3.5.c

in subsection (4), in Rule 2, for “condition A or B in section 529” substitute
“the property rental business condition” .

###### 3-year development rule

4

4.1

Section 556 (disposal of assets) is amended as follows.

4.2

In subsection (3), in paragraph (b)—

4.2.a

omit “fair”, and

4.2.b

omit the words from “(determined” to the end.

4.3

After that subsection insert—

4.3.3ZA

For the purposes of subsection (3)(b) the value of a property is to be treated
as its fair value (determined in accordance with international accounting
standards) at whichever of the following times that value is the greatest—

4.3.3ZA.a

on entry;

4.3.3ZA.b

when the property was acquired;

4.3.3ZA.c

the beginning of the accounting period in which the development commenced.

4.4

In subsection (3A), in paragraph (b)—

4.4.a

omit “fair”, and

4.4.b

omit the words from “(determined” to the end.

4.5

After that subsection insert—

4.5.3AA

For the purposes of subsection (3A)(b) the value of a property is to be
treated as its fair value (determined in accordance with international
accounting standards) at whichever of the following times that value is the
greatest—

4.5.3AA.a

on entry;

4.5.3AA.b

when the property was acquired;

4.5.3AA.c

the beginning of the accounting period in which the development commenced.

4.6

The amendments made by this paragraph have effect in relation to disposals of
assets made on or after 1 April 2023.

###### Genuine diversity of ownership

5

5.1

Section 528ZB of CTA 2010 is amended as follows.

5.2

In subsection (2)—

5.2.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for “it meets” substitute  “the scheme
meets or, if the scheme is part of multi-vehicle arrangements, the
arrangements meet” ;

5.2.b

omit the words after paragraph (b).

5.3

After that subsection insert—

5.3.2A

For the purposes of subsection (2), those Regulations have effect as if
references to a fund included—

5.3.2A.a

multi-vehicle arrangements, and

5.3.2A.b

a collective investment scheme which is not an offshore fund.

5.4

In subsection (3), for “the vehicle” substitute  “the scheme” .

5.5

In subsection (4), for “vehicle”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“scheme” .

5.6

After subsection (5) insert—

5.6.6

Where the collective investment scheme is part of multi-vehicle arrangements,
subsections (3) to (5) apply as if references to “the scheme” included the
multi-vehicle arrangements.

5.6.7

In this section “ multi-vehicle arrangements ” means arrangements comprising
two or more schemes under which an investor in one of those schemes would
reasonably regard that investment as an investment in the arrangements as a
whole rather than exclusively in any particular scheme.

###### Amendment of the Real Estate Investment Trusts (Assessment and Recovery of Tax) Regulations 2006

6

6.1

The Real Estate Investment Trusts (Assessment and Recovery of Tax) Regulations
2006 ( S.I. 2006/2867 ) are amended as follows.

6.2

After regulation 7 insert—

############ Partial gross payment of distributions to partnerships

6.2.7A

6.2.7A.1

This regulation applies to the payment of a relevant distribution by a company
if—

6.2.7A.1.a

the company reasonably believes that the recipient is a partnership whose
partners include a person or body—

6.2.7A.1.a.i

to which paragraph (2) or (3) of regulation 7 applies, or

6.2.7A.1.a.ii

to which paragraph (4) of that regulation applies where the partner’s share of
the partnership profits are to be applied for the purposes of the fund,
scheme, account or plan in respect of which that partner has duties,

6.2.7A.1.b

the company has a reasonable belief as to the share of partnership profits
that each partner is entitled to,

6.2.7A.1.c

the company reasonably believes that arrangements exist that will result in
each partner’s share of the partnership profits reflecting whether or not tax
was deducted in relation to that partner (as a result of regulation 3(2) and
this regulation), and

6.2.7A.1.d

the company elects to make the payment in accordance with paragraph  (2)  (by
making it in accordance with that paragraph).

6.2.7A.2

The relevant proportion of the relevant distribution is to be paid without
deduction of income tax.

6.2.7A.3

The relevant proportion is equal to the sum of the shares of the partnership
profits (expressed as proportions) to which each partner who falls within
paragraph (1) (a) (i)  or  (ii)  is entitled.

6.2.7A.4

But—

6.2.7A.4.a

paragraph  (2)  is subject to the qualification in paragraph (7) of regulation
7, and

6.2.7A.4.b

if the company’s belief as to any of the matters referred to in paragraph  (1)
is incorrect, these Regulations apply to the payment as if it were never one
to which this regulation applied.

6.2.7A.5

Upon discovering that a payment that was made in accordance with paragraph
(2)  should not have been made in accordance with that paragraph (as a result
of paragraph  (4)  or otherwise), the company who made it must deliver an
amended return in accordance with regulation 11.

6.2.7A.6

Where this paragraph applies to the payment of a relevant distribution, the
company making it must (in addition to its duty under regulation 6(1)) furnish
the partnership with a statement in writing in respect of each partner that is
not a partner who falls within  paragraph (1) (a) (i)  or  (ii)  showing the
amount of tax deducted in relation to each such partner.

6.2.7A.7

The duty imposed by paragraph  (6)  is enforceable at the suit or instance of
the partnership.

6.3

In regulation 3(2) (deduction of tax), after “regulation 7” insert  “or 7A” .

##### Qualifying asset holding companies

###### Amendment of Schedule 2 to FA 2022

7

Schedule 2 to FA 2022 (qualifying asset holding companies) is amended as
follows.

###### Securitisation companies unable to be QAHCs

8

8.1

In paragraph 2(1) (conditions for being a QAHC), in paragraph (e) for “not”
substitute  “neither a securitisation company nor” .

8.2

In paragraph 58(1) (interpretation), at the appropriate place insert—

                                                      “ securitisation company
” means a company whose profits are brought into account, for corporation tax
purposes, in accordance with regulation 14 of the Taxation of Securitisation
Companies Regulations 2006 ( S.I. 2006/3296 );

.

8.3

The amendments made by  this paragraph  are treated as having come into force
on 15 March 2023.

8.4

Those amendments are not to have effect in relation to a securitisation
company that was a QAHC immediately before that date for so long as it
continuously remains a QAHC.

###### Beneficial entitlement held only through QAHCs

9

9.1

In paragraph 4 (only direct and certain indirect interests to constitute
“relevant interests”), after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

9.1.2A

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1)(b)(i), a beneficial entitlement of T or
C held solely through one or more QAHCs is to be treated as held by that
person directly.

9.2

The amendment made by  this paragraph  is treated as having come into force on
20 July 2022.

9.3

But the amendment is not to have effect in relation to a QAHC that became a
QAHC before that date if the effect of the amendment would, by itself, cause
the QAHC to cease to meet the ownership condition on that date, ignoring—

9.3.a

any provision of Schedule 2 to FA 2022 that would, in some circumstances,
treat the ownership condition as met or a breach of the condition as having
not occurred, and

9.3.b

any prior breach of that condition.

###### Determining relevant interests

10

In paragraph 5(4) (determining relevant interests), after paragraph (h)
insert—

10.ha

in sections 170(3) and 172(3) (shares or securities with limited or temporary
rights), for “less than” there were substituted  “more than” ,

10.hb

in section 174 (option arrangements)—

10.hb.i

in subsection (1), in Step 4, for “lowest proportion” there were substituted
“highest proportion” , and

10.hb.ii

in subsection (2), for “less than” there were substituted  “more than” ,

10.hc

in sections 175(3), 176(3), 177(3) and 178(3) (cases in which more than one of
sections 170, 172, and 174 apply), for “lowest proportion” there were
substituted  “highest proportion” ,

.

###### Dealing with bodies corporate without share capital

11

11.1

In paragraph 9 (qualifying funds)—

11.1.a

in sub-paragraph (2)(a), in the words before sub-paragraph (i), after “scheme”
insert  “, or is an AIF that is not a collective investment scheme only by
reason of it being a body corporate,” ;

11.1.b

in sub-paragraph (5)—

11.1.b.i

in paragraph (a), after “company”, in the first place it occurs, insert  “that
has share capital” ;

11.1.b.ii

in paragraph (b)(i), after “company” insert  “that has share capital” ;

11.1.c

in sub-paragraph (6), after “collective investment scheme” insert  “, or is an
AIF that is not a collective investment scheme only by reason of it being a
body corporate,” .

11.2

Schedule 2 to FA 2022 has effect, and is to be deemed always to have had
effect, with the amendment made by  this paragraph .

###### Genuine diversity of ownership

12

12.1

Paragraph 9 is amended as follows.

12.2

In sub-paragraph (2)(a)—

12.2.a

in sub-paragraph (i), for “it meets” substitute  “the fund meets or, if the
fund is part of multi-vehicle arrangements, the arrangements meet” ;

12.2.b

in sub-paragraph (ii), for “it” substitute  “the fund or those multi-vehicle
arrangements” .

12.3

In sub-paragraph (3)—

12.3.a

before paragraph (a) insert—

12.3.a.za

the Offshore Funds (Tax) Regulations 2009 ( S.I. 2009/3001 ) have effect as if
references to a fund included—

12.3.a.za.i

multi-vehicle arrangements,

12.3.a.za.ii

a collective investment scheme which is not an offshore fund, and

12.3.a.za.iii

an AIF that is not a collective investment scheme only by reason of it being a
body corporate (and which is not an offshore fund);

;

12.3.b

in paragraph (a), in the words before sub-paragraph (i)—

12.3.b.i

for “the Offshore Funds (Tax) Regulations 2009 ( S.I. 2009/3001 )” substitute
“those Regulations” ;

12.3.b.ii

after “a fund” insert  “or multi-vehicle arrangements” ;

12.3.b.iii

after “the fund”, in both places it occurs, insert  “or multi-vehicle
arrangements” ;

12.3.c

in that paragraph—

12.3.c.i

in sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii), after “fund” insert  “or multi-vehicle
arrangements” ;

12.3.c.ii

in sub-paragraph (ii), after “fund” insert  “or multi-vehicle arrangements” ;

12.3.c.iii

in sub-paragraph (iii), for “vehicle” substitute  “fund or multi-vehicle
arrangements” ;

12.3.d

in paragraph (b), after “fund” insert  “or multi-vehicle arrangements” .

12.4

In sub-paragraph (4) after “fund”, in each place it occurs, insert  “or multi-
vehicle arrangements” .

12.5

In sub-paragraph (10), at the end insert—

                                                      “ multi-vehicle
arrangements ” means arrangements comprising two or more funds under which an
investor in one of those funds would reasonably regard that investment as an
investment in the arrangements as a whole rather than exclusively in any
particular fund;

.

###### Investment strategy condition

13

13.1

In paragraph 13 (activity and investment strategy conditions), after sub-
paragraph (2) insert—

13.1.3

A company (“ C ”) may make an election under this sub-paragraph that all
relevant equity securities held by C are to be treated as if they were not
equity securities listed or traded on a recognised stock exchange or any other
public market or exchange for the purposes of—

13.1.3.a

the investment strategy condition as it applies to C, and

13.1.3.b

that condition as it applies to any other company with a relevant interest in
C.

13.1.4

Equity securities are “relevant” if—

13.1.4.a

they are listed or traded on a recognised stock exchange or any other public
market or exchange,

13.1.4.b

they are held directly by C,

13.1.4.c

they were not acquired at a time when the election had effect from a company
that is a member of the same group as C, other than a company that was a QAHC
at the time of the acquisition, and

13.1.4.d

where C has previously been and ceased being a QAHC, they were acquired after
the most recent occasion on which C became a QAHC.

13.1.5

An election under  sub-paragraph (3) —

13.1.5.a

must be notified to HMRC,

13.1.5.b

has effect only while the company is a QAHC,

13.1.5.c

is revoked on the company ceasing to be a QAHC, and

13.1.5.d

may not otherwise be revoked.

13.1.6

Where an election under  sub-paragraph (3)  has effect, any dividend or other
distribution received by C in respect of relevant equity securities that would
otherwise be exempt for the purposes of section 931A(1) of CTA 2009 (charge to
tax on distributions received) is to be treated as not exempt for the purposes
of that section.

13.1.7

Where—

13.1.7.a

C disposes of relevant equity securities (“the dispossessed securities”), and

13.1.7.b

within the period of thirty days after the disposal, C acquires securities
(“the acquired securities”) of the same class,

any dividend or other distribution received by a person in respect of holding
the acquired securities in the period (“the dispossession period”) commencing
with the disposal by C of the dispossessed securities and ending with the
acquisition by C of the acquired securities is to be treated as having been
received by C for Corporation Tax purposes.

13.1.8

But the amount of any dividend or other distribution treated as received by C
as a result of sub-paragraph  (7)  is limited to the amount of the dividend or
other distribution C would have received had C held the dispossessed
securities throughout the dispossession period.

13.1.9

Equity securities are not to be treated as being of the same class unless they
are so treated by the practice of the recognised stock exchange, other public
market or exchange they are listed or traded on.

13.2

Omit paragraph 35 (and the italic heading before it).

13.3

In paragraph 58, after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

13.3.3

In this Schedule, apart from in paragraphs 42 and 43 (worldwide groups),
references to a company being a member of a group of companies are to be read
in accordance with section 170 of TCGA 1992 (interpretation of sections 171 to
181 of that Act: groups).

###### Disposal of derivatives where underlying subject matter is shares

14

14.1

In paragraph 53 (no chargeable gain on disposal of overseas land or certain
shares), in sub-paragraph (4), at the appropriate place insert—

                                                      “ derivative contract ”
means—
a derivative contract within the meaning of Part 7 of CTA 2009 (see section
576 of that Act), or
a contract which is not a derivative contract within the meaning of that Part
only as a result of section 589(2)(b) of that Act (general exclusion of
contracts whose underlying subject matter consists of shares);

.

14.2

That paragraph has effect, and is to be deemed always to have had effect, with
the amendment made by sub-paragraph (1).

###### Alternative finance arrangements

15

15.1

After paragraph 58 insert—

############ Alternative finance arrangements

15.1.59

15.1.59.1

Sub-paragraph  (2)  applies for the purposes of determining the amounts of
relevant interests in companies in accordance with paragraphs 3 to 6 and the
provisions of Chapter 6 of Part 6 of CTA 2010 applied by those paragraphs.

15.1.59.2

Where a person has (in substance) a beneficial entitlement to the profits of a
company as a result of qualifying alternative finance arrangements—

15.1.59.2.a

that entitlement is to be treated as an entitlement to a proportion of the
profits of that company available for distribution to equity holders of the
company, and

15.1.59.2.b

that person is to be treated as an equity holder.

15.1.59.3

“ Qualifying alternative finance arrangements ” means arrangements—

15.1.59.3.a

that constitute alternative finance arrangements for the purposes of Chapter 6
of Part 6 of CTA 2009 (alternative finance arrangements), or

15.1.59.3.b

that do not constitute alternative finance arrangements only as a result of
section 508 of that Act (exclusion provision not at arms length).

15.1.59.4

But arrangements that are analogous to a normal commercial loan are not
qualifying alternative finance arrangements.

15.1.59.5

Arrangements are analogous to a normal commercial loan if, were the
arrangements structured as a loan that resulted in the same or similar
entitlements of the parties to the arrangements, they would constitute a
normal commercial loan within the meaning of section 162 of CTA 2010.

15.2

In paragraph 3, after sub-paragraph (5) insert—

15.2.5A

See also paragraph 59, which makes provision for parties to alternative
finance arrangements who are equivalent to equity holders to be treated as
such.

15.3

In paragraph 58(1), in the definition of “equity holder” at the end insert  “,
but see also paragraph 59 of this Schedule” .

                 Records relating to transfer pricing

Section 37

##### Amendments relating to corporation tax

###### Records to be kept for the purposes of corporation tax

1

1.1

In Part 3 of Schedule 18 to FA 1998 (duty to keep and preserve records),
paragraph 21 is amended as follows.

1.2

After sub-paragraph (5A) insert—

1.2.5AA

Regulations under this paragraph may make provision, in relation to relevant
transfer pricing records specified, or of a description specified, in the
regulations—

1.2.5AA.a

as to the form or manner in which those records are to be kept and preserved;

1.2.5AA.b

by reference to things specified in the transfer pricing guidelines (within
the meaning of section 164 of TIOPA 2010 (interpretation in accordance with
OECD principles)).

1.3

For sub-paragraph (6) substitute—

1.3.6

For the purposes of this paragraph—

1.3.6.a

records are “relevant transfer pricing records” if the Commissioners for His
Majesty’s Revenue and Customs reasonably consider that the records may relate
to the calculation of profits or losses in accordance with Part 4 of TIOPA
2010 (transfer pricing);

1.3.6.b

“ supporting documents ” includes accounts, books, deeds, contracts, vouchers
and receipts.

###### Assessments relating to corporation tax

2

In Part 5 of Schedule 18 to FA 1998 (determinations and assessments), after
paragraph 49 insert—

########## Transfer pricing records: carelessness

2.49A

2.49A.1

This paragraph applies where—

2.49A.1.a

the situation mentioned in paragraph 41(1) or (2) has been brought about by a
person within any of paragraphs (a) to (c) of paragraph 43 (“ P ”) as regards
a relevant accounting period of a company,

2.49A.1.b

the situation relates to the calculation of profits or losses in accordance
with Part 4 of TIOPA 2010 (transfer pricing) for the purposes of that period,
and

2.49A.1.c

the company has failed to comply, in relation to specified relevant transfer
pricing records that relate to the calculation, with either or both of—

2.49A.1.c.i

paragraph 21 (duty to keep and preserve records), and

2.49A.1.c.ii

an information notice (within the meaning of Schedule 36 to the Finance Act
2008 (information and inspection powers)).

2.49A.2

It is to be presumed for the purposes of this Part of this Schedule that the
situation mentioned in paragraph 41(1) or (2) was brought about carelessly by
P, unless—

2.49A.2.a

the situation was brought about deliberately by P, or

2.49A.2.b

the company satisfies HMRC or (on an appeal notified to the tribunal) the
tribunal that P took reasonable care to avoid the situation.

2.49A.3

For the purposes of this paragraph—

2.49A.3.a

“ relevant accounting period of a company ” means an accounting period in
respect of which—

2.49A.3.a.i

the company, together with one or more other enterprises, constitutes an MNE
Group within the meaning of the Taxes (Base Erosion and Profit Shifting)
(Country-by-Country Reporting) Regulations 2016 ( S.I. 2016/237 ) (see
regulation 2(3) of those Regulations), and

2.49A.3.a.ii

the MNE Group meets the threshold requirement within the meaning of those
Regulations (see regulations 3(2) to (4) of those Regulations);

2.49A.3.b

records are “specified relevant transfer pricing records” if—

2.49A.3.b.i

they are relevant transfer pricing records specified, or of a description
specified, in regulations under paragraph 21 (duties to keep and preserve
records), and

2.49A.3.b.ii

the company is required to keep and preserve those records under that
paragraph.

##### Amendments relating to income tax

###### Records to be kept for the purposes of income tax

3

3.1

In Part 2 of TMA 1970 (records), section 12B (records to be kept for purposes
of returns) is amended as follows.

3.2

After subsection (5B) insert—

3.2.5BA

Regulations under this section may make provision, in relation to relevant
transfer pricing records specified, or of a description specified, in the
regulations—

3.2.5BA.a

as to the form or manner in which those records are to be kept and preserved;

3.2.5BA.b

by reference to things specified in the transfer pricing guidelines (within
the meaning of section 164 of TIOPA 2010 (interpretation in accordance with
OECD principles)).

3.3

In subsection (6)—

3.3.a

omit the “and” after paragraph (a);

3.3.b

after that paragraph insert—

3.3.b.aa

records are “relevant transfer pricing records” if the Commissioners for His
Majesty’s Revenue and Customs reasonably consider that the records may relate
to the calculation of profits or losses in accordance with Part 4 of TIOPA
2010 (transfer pricing);

.

###### Assessments relating to income tax

4

In Part 4 of TMA 1970 (assessment and claims), after section 30B insert—

########## Transfer pricing records: carelessness for the purposes of section 29

4.30C

4.30C.1

This section applies where—

4.30C.1.a

the situation mentioned in section 29(1) has been brought about by a relevant
trustee, or a person acting on their behalf, as regards a relevant year of
assessment,

4.30C.1.b

the situation relates to the calculation of profits or losses in accordance
with Part 4 of TIOPA 2010 (transfer pricing) for the purposes of that year,
and

4.30C.1.c

the relevant person has failed to comply, in relation to specified relevant
transfer pricing records that relate to the calculation, with either or both
of—

4.30C.1.c.i

section 12B (records to be kept for the purposes of returns), and

4.30C.1.c.ii

an information notice (within the meaning of Schedule 36 to the Finance Act
2008 (information and inspection powers)).

4.30C.2

It is to be presumed for the purposes of section 29 that the situation
mentioned in section 29(1) was brought about carelessly by the relevant
trustee, or the person acting on their behalf, unless—

4.30C.2.a

the situation was brought about deliberately by the relevant trustee, or the
person acting on their behalf, or

4.30C.2.b

the relevant trustee satisfies HMRC or (on an appeal notified to the tribunal)
the tribunal that they, or the person acting on their behalf, took reasonable
care to avoid the situation.

4.30C.3

For the purposes of this paragraph—

4.30C.3.a

“ relevant person ” means a person who was required by a notice under section
8A to make and deliver the return in respect of the relevant year of
assessment;

4.30C.3.b

“ relevant year of assessment ” means a year of assessment in respect of
which—

4.30C.3.b.i

the trustees of the trust concerned, together with one or more other
enterprises, constitutes an MNE Group within the meaning of the Taxes (Base
Erosion and Profit Shifting) (Country-by-Country Reporting) Regulations 2016 (
S.I. 2016/237 ) (see regulation 2(3) of those Regulations), and

4.30C.3.b.ii

the MNE Group meets the threshold requirement within the meaning of those
Regulations (see regulations 3(2) to (4) of those Regulations);

4.30C.3.c

records are “specified relevant transfer pricing records” if—

4.30C.3.c.i

they are relevant transfer pricing records specified, or of a description
specified, in regulations under section 12B, and

4.30C.3.c.ii

the relevant person is required to keep and preserve those records under that
section.

########## Transfer pricing records: carelessness for the purposes of section 30B

4.30D

4.30D.1

This section applies where—

4.30D.1.a

the situation mentioned in section 30B(1) has been brought about by a person
within section 30B(5) (“ P ”) as regards a partnership statement in respect of
a relevant period,

4.30D.1.b

the situation relates to the calculation of profits or losses in accordance
with Part 4 of TIOPA 2010 (transfer pricing) for the purposes of that period,
and

4.30D.1.c

the relevant person (whether or not P) has failed to comply, in relation to
specified relevant transfer pricing records that relate to the calculation,
with either or both of—

4.30D.1.c.i

section 12B (records to be kept for the purposes of returns), and

4.30D.1.c.ii

an information notice (within the meaning of Schedule 36 to the Finance Act
2008 (information and inspection powers)).

4.30D.2

It is to be presumed for the purposes of section 30B that the situation
mentioned in section 30B(1) was brought about carelessly by P, unless—

4.30D.2.a

the situation was brought about deliberately by P, or

4.30D.2.b

the relevant person satisfies HMRC or (on an appeal notified to the tribunal)
the tribunal that P took reasonable care to avoid the situation.

4.30D.3

For the purposes of this paragraph—

4.30D.3.a

“ relevant period ” means a period in respect of which—

4.30D.3.a.i

the partnership to which the partnership statement relates, together with one
or more other enterprises, constitutes an MNE Group within the meaning of the
Taxes (Base Erosion and Profit Shifting) (Country-by-Country Reporting)
Regulations 2016 ( S.I. 2016/237 ) (see regulation 2(3) of those Regulations),
and

4.30D.3.a.ii

the MNE Group meets the threshold requirement within the meaning of those
Regulations (see regulations 3(2) to (4) of those Regulations);

4.30D.3.b

“ relevant person ” means a person who was required by a notice under section
12AA to make and deliver the return in respect of the relevant period;

4.30D.3.c

records are “specified relevant transfer pricing records” if—

4.30D.3.c.i

they are relevant transfer pricing records specified, or of a description
specified, in regulations under section 12B, and

4.30D.3.c.ii

the relevant person is required to keep and preserve those records under that
section.

##### Amendments relating to corporation tax and income tax

###### Penalties for errors

5

5.1

Schedule 24 to FA 2007 (penalties for errors) is amended as follows.

5.2

In Part 1 (liability for penalty), after paragraph 3B insert—

############ Errors related to transfer pricing records

5.2.3C

5.2.3C.1

This paragraph applies where—

5.2.3C.1.a

a document of a kind listed in the Table in paragraph 1 relating to a relevant
tax period is given to HMRC by a person (“ P ”),

5.2.3C.1.b

the document contains an inaccuracy—

5.2.3C.1.b.i

which falls within paragraph 1(2), and

5.2.3C.1.b.ii

which involves the calculation of profits or losses in accordance with Part 4
of TIOPA 2010 (transfer pricing) for the purposes of that period, and

5.2.3C.1.c

the relevant person (whether or not P) failed to comply, in relation to
specified relevant transfer pricing records that relate to the inaccuracy,
with one or more of—

5.2.3C.1.c.i

section 12B of TMA 1970 (records to be kept for the purposes of returns),

5.2.3C.1.c.ii

paragraph 21 of Schedule 18 to FA 1998 (duty to keep and preserve records),
and

5.2.3C.1.c.iii

an information notice (within the meaning of Schedule 36 to FA 2008
(information and inspection powers)).

5.2.3C.2

It is to be presumed that the inaccuracy was careless, within the meaning of
paragraph 3, unless—

5.2.3C.2.a

the inaccuracy was deliberate on P’s part, or

5.2.3C.2.b

P satisfies HMRC or (on an appeal notified to the tribunal) the tribunal that
P took reasonable care to avoid the inaccuracy.

5.2.3C.3

Sub-paragraphs  (4)  to  (6)  apply for the purposes of this paragraph.

5.2.3C.4

“ Relevant person ”, in relation to a document of a kind listed in the Table
in paragraph 1, means—

5.2.3C.4.a

the person to whose tax liability the document relates,

5.2.3C.4.b

in the case of a return under section 8A of TMA 1970 (trustee's return), a
relevant trustee (within the meaning of that Act), or

5.2.3C.4.c

in the case of a partnership return, or a statement, declaration or accounts
in connection with a partnership return, a person who was required by a notice
under section 12AA of TMA 1970 (partnership return) to make and deliver a
return in respect of relevant tax period.

5.2.3C.5

“ Relevant tax period ” means a tax period—

5.2.3C.5.a

in respect of which—

5.2.3C.5.a.i

the person mentioned in  sub-paragraph (4) (a) ,

5.2.3C.5.a.ii

in the case mentioned in  sub-paragraph (4) (b) , the trustees of the trust
concerned, or

5.2.3C.5.a.iii

in the case mentioned in  sub-paragraph (4) (c) , the partnership to which the
partnership return relates,

together with one or more other enterprises, constitutes an MNE Group within
the meaning of the Taxes (Base Erosion and Profit Shifting) (Country-by-
Country Reporting) Regulations 2016 ( S.I. 2016/237 ) (see regulation 2(3) of
those Regulations), and

5.2.3C.5.b

in respect of which the MNE Group meets the threshold requirement within the
meaning of those Regulations (see regulations 3(2) to (4) of those
Regulations).

5.2.3C.6

Records are “specified relevant transfer pricing records” if—

5.2.3C.6.a

they are relevant transfer pricing records specified, or of a description
specified, in regulations under section 12B of TMA 1970 or paragraph 21 of
Schedule 18 to FA 1998 (duties to keep and preserve records), and

5.2.3C.6.b

the relevant person is required to keep and preserve those records under
either or both of those provisions.

5.3

In Part 4 (miscellaneous), in paragraph 18 (agency), in sub-paragraph (6)—

5.3.a

for “Paragraph 3A applies” substitute  “Paragraphs 3A and 3C apply” ;

5.3.b

for “it applies” substitute  “they apply” .

###### Information and inspection powers

6

6.1

Schedule 36 to FA 2008 (information and inspection powers) is amended as
follows.

6.2

In Part 4 (restrictions on powers), in paragraph 21 (taxpayer notices
following tax return)—

6.2.a

in sub-paragraph (3), for “D” substitute  “E” ;

6.2.b

after sub-paragraph (8) insert—

6.2.b.8A

Condition E is that the notice is given for the purpose of obtaining any
specified relevant transfer pricing information or documents.

6.2.b.8B

For the purposes of Condition E, information or documents are “specified
relevant transfer pricing information or documents” if—

6.2.b.8B.a

they are relevant transfer pricing records specified, or of a description
specified, in regulations under section 12B of TMA 1970 or paragraph 21 of
Schedule 18 to FA 1998 (duties to keep and preserve records), and

6.2.b.8B.b

the relevant person is required to keep and preserve those records under
either or both of those provisions.

6.2.b.8C

For the purposes of  subsection (8B) , the “ relevant person ” means—

6.2.b.8C.a

in the case of a tax return made in respect of a chargeable period under
section 8A or 12AA of TMA 1970 (trustee’s and partnership returns)—

6.2.b.8C.a.i

the person, or

6.2.b.8C.a.ii

a person who was required by a notice under the section concerned to make and
deliver the return;

6.2.b.8C.b

in any other case, the person.

;

6.3

In Part 6 (special cases), after paragraph 37B insert—

############ Specified relevant transfer pricing documents

6.3.37C

6.3.37C.1

This paragraph applies to an information notice given to a relevant person in
an MNE Group (“ A ”) to the extent that the notice refers to specified
relevant transfer pricing documents.

6.3.37C.2

Paragraph 18 (documents not in person’s possession or power) does not apply in
relation to a specified relevant transfer pricing document that—

6.3.37C.2.a

is not in A’s possession or power, but

6.3.37C.2.b

is in the power or possession of another relevant person in the MNE Group
concerned (“ B ”),

(and accordingly the information notice may require A to produce the
document).

6.3.37C.3

For the purposes of this paragraph—

6.3.37C.3.a

documents are “specified relevant transfer pricing documents” if—

6.3.37C.3.a.i

they are relevant transfer pricing records specified, or of a description
specified, in regulations under section 12B of TMA 1970 or paragraph 21 of
Schedule 18 to FA 1998 (duties to keep and preserve records), and

6.3.37C.3.a.ii

A is required to keep and preserve those records under either or both of those
provisions;

6.3.37C.3.b

“ MNE Group ” has the same meaning as in the Taxes (Base Erosion and Profit
Shifting) (Country-by-Country Reporting) Regulations 2016 ( S.I. 2016/237 )
(see regulation 2(3) of those Regulations);

6.3.37C.3.c

“ relevant person in an MNE Group ” means—

6.3.37C.3.c.i

a company,

6.3.37C.3.c.ii

a trustee of a trust, or

6.3.37C.3.c.iii

a partner in a partnership,

where that company, the trustees or the partnership, together with one or more
other enterprises, constitutes an MNE Group.

##### Commencement

7

Regulations made under—

7.a

paragraph 21 of Schedule 18 to FA 1998 by virtue of the amendments made by
paragraph 1  of this Schedule, or

7.b

section 12B of TMA 1970 by virtue of the amendments made by  paragraph 3  of
this Schedule,

have effect in relation to such accounting periods or tax years beginning on
or after 1 April 2023 as are specified in the regulations.

Categories of alcoholic products: interpretation

Section 44

##### Spirits

1

“ Spirits ” means—

1.a

spirits of any description, and

1.b

any mixture or compound made with spirits (including, subject to the following
provisions of this Schedule, mixtures that also contain other alcoholic
products).

2

The extraction of spirits absorbed in a wooden cask is treated, for the
purposes of this Part, as the production of spirits.

##### Beer

3

“ Beer ” means—

3.a

ale,

3.b

porter,

3.c

stout,

3.d

any other type of beer, and

3.e

any other product which is made or sold as beer or as a substitute for beer.

4

4.1

A qualifying beer-based beverage is treated as beer for the purposes of this
Part.

4.2

“ Beer-based beverage ” means a beverage which is a mixture of beer and any of
the following—

4.2.a

fruit or ginger—

4.2.a.i

cordial,

4.2.a.ii

carbonated water,

4.2.a.iii

juice, or

4.2.a.iv

squash;

4.2.b

lemonade or limeade;

4.2.c

unfermented ginger beer;

4.2.d

any alcoholic product or other alcoholic substance.

4.3

A beer-based beverage is “qualifying” if—

4.3.a

it would, apart from  this paragraph , fall within  paragraph 12  (other
fermented products), and

4.3.b

it is of an alcoholic strength not exceeding 5.5%.

##### Cider

5

“ Cider ” means a product which—

5.a

is obtained from the fermentation of apple juice or pear juice,

5.b

has been produced without the addition, at any time, of—

5.b.i

another alcoholic product, or

5.b.ii

anything, other than a permitted substance, which communicates colour or
flavour,

5.c

satisfies the juice content requirements (see  paragraph 7 ), and

5.d

is of an alcoholic strength of less than 8.5%.

6

In  paragraph 5 , “ permitted substance ” means a substance that—

6.a

appears to the Commissioners to be necessary for the purposes of producing
cider, and

6.b

is specified in a notice published by the Commissioners for the purposes of
this Schedule .

7

7.1

For the purposes of  paragraph 5 , the juice content requirements are
satisfied in relation to a product if—

7.1.a

qualifying fruit juice comprises at least 35% of the volume of the pre-
fermentation mixture for the product, and

7.1.b

the total of—

7.1.b.i

the volume of qualifying fruit juice included in the pre-fermentation mixture,
and

7.1.b.ii

the volume of qualifying fruit juice added after fermentation begins,

comprises at least 35% of the end product.

7.2

“ Qualifying fruit juice ” means apple or pear juice of a gravity of at least
1033 degrees.

7.3

The “gravity” of apple or pear juice in degrees is determined by—

7.3.a

calculating the ratio of the weight of the volume of the juice to the weight
of an equal volume of distilled water (both as at 20°C), and

7.3.b

multiplying that ratio by 1000.

7.4

“ Pre-fermentation mixture ” means the mixture of juice and other ingredients
in which the fermentation (from which the cider is obtained) takes place, as
that mixture exists immediately before the fermentation process begins.

7.5

If the cider consists of a blend of two or more products, each constituting
cider, references in  sub-paragraph (4)  to the pre-fermentation mixture are
to the pre-fermentation mixtures for each of those products taken as a whole.

8

8.1

“ Sparkling cider ” means cider which—

8.1.a

if it is packaged in a closed bottle, either—

8.1.a.i

due to the presence of carbon dioxide, the pressure in the bottle, measured at
a temperature of 20°C, is not less than 3 bars in excess of atmospheric
pressure, or

8.1.a.ii

(regardless of the pressure) the bottle has a mushroom-shaped stopper held in
place by a tie or fastening;

8.1.b

if it is not packaged in a closed bottle, has characteristics similar to those
of cider which (while packaged in a closed bottle) falls within  paragraph (a)
(i) .

8.2

Cider is to be regarded as having been rendered sparkling if—

8.2.a

as a result of aeration, fermentation or any other process, it falls within
sub-paragraph (1) , or

8.2.b

(if not previously rendered sparkling under  paragraph (a) ) it is transferred
into a closed bottle which has, or the stopper of its bottle is exchanged for,
a stopper of the kind mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(a)(ii).

9

Rendering cider sparkling, at any time after the excise duty point in relation
to that cider, is treated for the purposes of this Part as producing sparkling
cider.

10

“ Still cider ” means cider that is not sparkling cider.

##### Wine

11

“ Wine ” means any product obtained from the alcoholic fermentation of fresh
grapes or of the must of fresh grapes (whether or not the product is fortified
with spirits).

##### Other fermented products

12

“ Other fermented product ” means a product which—

12.a

is either—

12.a.i

obtained from the alcoholic fermentation of any substance, or

12.a.ii

obtained by mixing a product obtained from the alcoholic fermentation of any
substance, or anything derived from that product, with anything else; but

12.b

is not beer, cider, wine or spirits.

Rates of alcohol duty

Section 48

TABLE 1 Alcoholic strength of alcoholic product Rate of duty per litre of
alcohol in the product Less than 3.5% £9.27 At least 3.5% but less than 8.5%
See Table 2 At least 8.5% but not exceeding 22% £28.50 Exceeding 22% £31.64

TABLE 2 Description of alcoholic product (of an alcoholic strength of at least
3.5% but less than 8.5%) Rate of duty per litre of alcohol in the product
Still cider Sparkling cider of an alcoholic strength not exceeding 5.5% £9.67
Beer £21.01 Spirits, wine and other fermented products Sparkling cider of an
alcoholic strength exceeding 5.5% £24.77

Qualifying draught products: reduced rates

Section 50

Description of alcoholic product Rate of duty per litre of alcohol in the
product Alcoholic products of an alcoholic strength of less than 3.5% £8.42
Still cider of an alcoholic strength of at least 3.5% Sparkling cider of an
alcoholic strength of at least 3.5% but not exceeding 5.5% £8.78 Beer,
spirits, wine and other fermented products of an alcoholic strength of at
least 3.5% (but less than 8.5%) Sparkling cider of an alcoholic strength
exceeding 5.5% £19.08

Small producer alcoholic products: duty discount

Section 59

##### Alcoholic products, other than qualifying draught products, of an alcoholic strength of less than 8.5%

Alcoholic products, other than spirits, of an alcoholic strength of less than
3.5% Discount band Start threshold (hectolitres) End threshold (hectolitres)
Marginal discount (£) Cumulative discount (£) 1 0 5 9.27 - 2 5 50 2.32 46.35 3
50 100 1.39 150.75 4 100 200 0.46 220.25 5 200 600 - 266.25 6 600 1000 -
266.25 7 1000 4500 -0.08 266.25 Spirits of an alcoholic strength of less than
3.5% Discount band Start threshold (hectolitres) End threshold (hectolitres)
Marginal discount (£) Cumulative discount (£) 1 0 5 6.03 - 2 5 50 2.32 30.15 3
50 100 1.39 134.55 4 100 200 0.46 204.05 5 200 600 - 250.05 6 600 1000 -
250.05 7 1000 4500 -0.07 250.05

Still cider of an alcoholic strength of at least 3.5%; sparkling cider of an
alcoholic strength of at least 3.5% but not exceeding 5.5% Discount band Start
threshold (hectolitres) End threshold (hectolitres) Marginal discount (£)
Cumulative discount (£) 1 0 5 9.67 - 2 5 50 2.42 48.35 3 50 100 1.45 157.25 4
100 200 0.48 229.75 5 200 600 - 277.75 6 600 1000 - 277.75 7 1000 4500 -0.08
277.75

Beer of an alcoholic strength of at least 3.5% Discount band Start threshold
(hectolitres) End threshold (hectolitres) Marginal discount (£) Cumulative
discount (£) 1 0 5 18.91 - 2 5 112.5 10.51 94.55 3 112.5 225 9.45 1224.38 4
225 450 5.25 2287.50 5 450 900 3.15 3468.75 6 900 1350 - 4886.25 7 1350 4500
-1.55 4886.25

Wine and other fermented products of an alcoholic strength of at least 3.5%;
sparkling cider of an alcoholic strength exceeding 5.5% Discount band Start
threshold (hectolitres) End threshold (hectolitres) Marginal discount (£)
Cumulative discount (£) 1 0 5 24.77 - 2 5 50 2.48 123.85 3 50 100 2.48 235.45
4 100 200 1.24 359.45 5 200 600 - 483.45 6 600 1000 - 483.45 7 1000 4500 -0.14
483.45 Spirits of an alcoholic strength of at least 3.5% Discount band Start
threshold (hectolitres) End threshold (hectolitres) Marginal discount (£
Cumulative discount (£) 1 0 5 19.82 - 2 5 50 2.48 99.10 3 50 100 2.48 210.70 4
100 200 1.24 334.70 5 200 600 - 458.70 6 600 1000 - 458.70 7 1000 4500 -0.13
458.70

##### Qualifying draught products of an alcoholic strength of less than 8.5%

Alcoholic products, other than spirits, of an alcoholic strength of less than
3.5% Discount band Start threshold (hectolitres) End threshold (hectolitres)
Marginal discount (£) Cumulative discount (£) 1 0 5 8.42 - 2 5 50 2.11 42.10 3
50 100 1.26 137.05 4 100 200 0.42 200.05 5 200 600 - 242.05 6 600 1000 -
242.05 7 1000 4500 -0.07 242.05 Spirits of an alcoholic strength of less than
3.5% Discount band Start threshold (hectolitres) End threshold (hectolitres)
Marginal discount (£) Cumulative discount (£) 1 0 5 5.47 - 2 5 50 2.11 27.35 3
50 100 1.26 122.30 4 100 200 0.42 185.30 5 200 600 - 227.30 6 600 1000 -
227.30 7 1000 4500 -0.06 227.30

Still cider of an alcoholic strength of at least 3.5%; sparkling cider of an
alcoholic strength of at least 3.5% but not exceeding 5.5% Discount band Start
threshold (hectolitres) End threshold (hectolitres) Marginal discount (£)
Cumulative discount (£) 1 0 5 8.78 - 2 5 50 2.19 43.90 3 50 100 1.32 142.45 4
100 200 0.44 208.45 5 200 600 - 252.45 6 600 1000 - 252.45 7 1000 4500 -0.07
252.45

Beer of an alcoholic strength of at least 3.5% Discount band Start threshold
(hectolitres) End threshold (hectolitres) Marginal discount (£) Cumulative
discount (£) 1 0 5 17.17 - 2 5 112.5 9.54 85.85 3 112.5 225 8.59 1111.40 4 225
450 4.77 2077.78 5 450 900 2.86 3151.03 6 900 1350 - 4438.03 7 1350 4500 -1.41
4438.03

Wine and other fermented products of an alcoholic strength of at least 3.5%;
sparkling cider of an alcoholic strength exceeding 5.5% Discount band Start
threshold (hectolitres) End threshold (hectolitres) Marginal discount (£)
Cumulative discount (£) 1 0 5 19.08 - 2 5 50 1.91 95.40 3 50 100 1.91 181.35 4
100 200 0.95 276.85 5 200 600 - 371.85 6 600 1000 - 371.85 7 1000 4500 -0.11
371.85 Spirits of an alcoholic strength of at least 3.5% Discount band Start
threshold (hectolitres) End threshold (hectolitres) Marginal discount (£)
Cumulative discount (£) 1 0 5 15.26 - 2 5 50 1.91 76.30 3 50 100 1.91 162.25 4
100 200 0.95 257.75 5 200 600 - 352.75 6 600 1000 - 352.75 7 1000 4500 -0.10
352.75

Penalties for contraventions of alcohol wholesaling provisions

Section 105

##### Liability to penalty

1

A penalty is payable by a person (“ P ”) who contravenes  section 100 (1)  or
103 (1) .

##### Amount of penalty

2

2.1

If the contravention is deliberate and concealed, the amount of the penalty is
the maximum amount (see  paragraph 10 ).

2.2

If the contravention is deliberate but not concealed, the amount of the
penalty is 70% of the maximum amount.

2.3

In any other case, the amount of the penalty is 30% of the maximum amount.

2.4

The contravention is—

2.4.a

“deliberate and concealed” if the contravention is deliberate and P makes
arrangements to conceal the contravention, and

2.4.b

“deliberate but not concealed” if the contravention is deliberate but P does
not make arrangements to conceal the contravention.

##### Reductions for disclosure

3

3.1

Paragraph 4  provides for reductions in penalties under  this Schedule  where
P discloses a contravention.

3.2

P discloses a contravention by—

3.2.a

telling the Commissioners about it,

3.2.b

giving the Commissioners reasonable help in identifying any other
contraventions of  section 100 (1)  or  103 (1)  of which P is aware, and

3.2.c

allowing the Commissioners access to records for the purpose of identifying
such contraventions.

3.3

Disclosure of a contravention—

3.3.a

is “unprompted” if made at a time when P has no reason to believe that the
Commissioners have discovered or are about to discover the contravention, and

3.3.b

otherwise, is “prompted”.

3.4

In relation to disclosure “ quality ” includes timing, nature and extent.

4

4.1

Where P discloses a contravention, the Commissioners must reduce the penalty
to one that reflects the quality of the disclosure.

4.2

If the disclosure is prompted, the penalty may not be reduced below—

4.2.a

in the case of a contravention that is deliberate and concealed, 50% of the
maximum amount,

4.2.b

in the case of a contravention that is deliberate but not concealed, 35% of
the maximum amount, and

4.2.c

in any other case, 20% of the maximum amount.

4.3

If the disclosure is unprompted, the penalty may not be reduced below—

4.3.a

in the case of a contravention that is deliberate and concealed, 30% of the
maximum amount,

4.3.b

in the case of a contravention that is deliberate but not concealed, 20% of
the maximum amount, and

4.3.c

in any other case, 10% of the maximum amount.

##### Special reduction

5

5.1

If the Commissioners think it right because of special circumstances, they may
reduce a penalty under  this Schedule .

5.2

In  sub-paragraph (1)  “ special circumstances ” does not include ability to
pay.

5.3

In  sub-paragraph (1)  the reference to reducing a penalty includes a
reference to—

5.3.a

staying a penalty, and

5.3.b

agreeing a compromise in relation to proceedings for a penalty.

##### Assessment

6

6.1

Where P becomes liable for a penalty under  this Schedule , the Commissioners
must—

6.1.a

assess the penalty,

6.1.b

notify P, and

6.1.c

state in the notice the contravention in respect of which the penalty is
assessed.

6.2

A penalty under  this Schedule  must be paid before the end of the period of
30 days beginning with the day on which notification of the penalty is issued.

6.3

An assessment is to be treated as an amount of duty due from P under this Act
and may be recovered accordingly.

6.4

An assessment of a penalty under  this Schedule  may not be made later than
one year after evidence of facts sufficient in the opinion of the
Commissioners to indicate the contravention comes to their knowledge.

6.5

Two or more contraventions may be treated by the Commissioners as a single
contravention for the purposes of assessing a penalty under  this Schedule .

##### Reasonable excuse

7

7.1

Liability to a penalty does not arise under  this Schedule  in respect of a
contravention which is not deliberate if P satisfies the Commissioners or (on
an appeal made to the appeal tribunal) the tribunal that there is a reasonable
excuse for the contravention.

7.2

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (1) , where P relies on any other person to
do anything, that is not a reasonable excuse unless P took reasonable care to
avoid the contravention.

##### Companies: officer’s liability

8

8.1

Where a penalty under  this Schedule  is payable by a company in respect of a
contravention which was attributable to an officer of the company, the officer
is liable to pay such portion of the penalty (which may be 100%) as the
Commissioners may specify by written notice to the officer.

8.2

Sub-paragraph (1)  does not allow the Commissioners to recover more than 100%
of a penalty.

8.3

In the application of  sub-paragraph (1)  to a body corporate other than a
limited liability partnership, “ officer ” means—

8.3.a

a director (including a shadow director within the meaning of section 251 of
the Companies Act 2006),

8.3.b

a manager, and

8.3.c

a secretary.

8.4

In the application of  sub-paragraph (1)  to a limited liability partnership,
“ officer ” means a member.

8.5

In the application of  sub-paragraph (1)  in any other case, “ officer ”
means—

8.5.a

a director,

8.5.b

a manager,

8.5.c

a secretary, and

8.5.d

any other person managing or purporting to manage any of the company’s
affairs.

8.6

Where the Commissioners have specified a portion of a penalty in a notice
given to an officer under  sub-paragraph (1) —

8.6.a

paragraph 5  applies to the specified portion as to a penalty,

8.6.b

the officer must pay the specified portion before the end of the period of 30
days beginning with the day on which the notice is given,

8.6.c

sub-paragraphs (3)  to  (5)  of  paragraph 6  apply as if the notice were an
assessment of a penalty, and

8.6.d

paragraph 9  applies as if the officer were liable to a penalty.

8.7

In  this paragraph  “ company ” means any body corporate or unincorporated
association, but does not include a partnership.

##### Double jeopardy

9

P is not liable to a penalty under  this Schedule  in respect of a
contravention in respect of which P has been convicted of an offence.

##### The maximum amount

10

10.1

In  this Schedule , “ the maximum amount ” means £10,000.

10.2

If it appears to the Treasury that there has been a change in the value of
money since the last relevant date, the Treasury may by regulations substitute
for the sum for the time being specified in  sub-paragraph (1)  such other sum
as appears to them to be justified by the change.

10.3

In  sub-paragraph (2) , “ relevant date ” means—

10.3.a

the date on which the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023 is passed, and

10.3.b

each date on which the power conferred by that sub-paragraph has been
exercised.

10.4

Regulations under  this paragraph  do not apply to any contravention which
occurred before the date on which they come into force.

##### Appeal tribunal

11

In  this Schedule  “ appeal tribunal ” has the same meaning as in Chapter 2 of
Part 1 of the FA 1994.

Alcohol duty: reviews and appeals

Section 108

1

1.1

Section 13A(2) of FA 1994 (meaning of “ relevant decision ”) is amended as
follows.

1.2

In paragraph (c), for “section 8, 10, 11 or 36G of the Alcoholic Liquor Duties
Act 1979,” substitute  “ section 52 ,  60 ,  78  or  79  of  Part 2  of the
Finance (No. 2) Act 2023 (alcohol duty),” .

1.3

In paragraph (ea), for sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii) substitute—

1.3.i

regulations under  section 102  of  Part 2  of the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023
(alcohol duty), or

1.3.ii

Schedule 12  to that Act;

.

1.4

In paragraph (f), for “paragraph 4(2)(h) of Schedule 2A to the Alcoholic
Liquor Duties Act 1979 (duty stamps)” substitute  “ paragraph 4 (2) (h)  of
Schedule 12  to the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023 (alcohol duty: duty stamps)” .

2

In Schedule 5 to FA 1994 (decisions subject to review and appeal), for
paragraph 3 (and the heading immediately preceding it) substitute—

######## Part 2 of the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023 (alcohol duty)

2.3

2.3.1

The following decisions under or for the purposes of  Part 2  of the Finance
(No. 2) Act 2023 (alcohol duty)—

2.3.1.a

any decision as to whether or not any duty is to be remitted or repaid under
section 73  (research and experiments) or  74  (spoilt alcoholic products) as
to the conditions subject to which the duty is to be remitted or repaid;

2.3.1.b

any decision—

2.3.1.b.i

on a claim under  section 75  for repayment of duty (alcoholic ingredients
relief), or

2.3.1.b.ii

as to whether or not to remit duty under that section;

2.3.1.c

any decision for the purposes of  section 76  (imported medical articles) or
section 78  (authorised use for certain purposes) as to whether or not to
recognise any article as used for medical purposes;

2.3.1.d

any decision for the purposes of  section 78  (authorised use for certain
purposes)—

2.3.1.d.i

as to the use to which any article is or is to be put, or as to the purposes
for which it is or is to be used,

2.3.1.d.ii

as to whether or not permission or authorisation for any person to receive, or
for the delivery of, any spirits without payment of duty is to be granted or
withdrawn, or

2.3.1.d.iii

as to the conditions subject to which the permission or authorisation is
granted;

2.3.1.e

any decision for the purposes of  section 79  (imported goods not for human
consumption) as to whether or not any goods are for human consumption;

2.3.1.f

any decision for the purposes of  section 82  (approval requirement:
producers) or  83  (supplementary provision about approvals)—

2.3.1.f.i

as to whether or not, and in respect of which alcoholic products, premises or
activities, an approval is given,

2.3.1.f.ii

the period for which, or conditions subject to which, an approval is given,

2.3.1.f.iii

as to the revocation or variation of an approval, or

2.3.1.f.iv

as to whether a person is exempt from the approval requirement;

2.3.1.g

any decision as to the application of an exemption under  section 86  (mixing
alcoholic products);

2.3.1.h

any decision as to whether or not a licence for the purposes of  section 91
(licence to manufacture and deal wholesale in denatured alcohol) is to be
granted to a person, or as to the revocation or suspension of a licence for
the purposes of that section;

2.3.1.i

any decision for the purposes of any provision of  Chapter 7  (wholesaling of
controlled alcoholic products) as to whether or not, and in which respects, a
person is to be, or to continue to be, approved and registered or as to the
conditions or restrictions subject to which a person is to be approved and
registered;

2.3.1.j

any decision for the purposes of  section 111  as to whether or not any
drawback is to be set against an amount chargeable in respect of alcohol duty
or as to the conditions subject to which drawback is set against that amount.

2.3.2

Any decision which—

2.3.2.a

is made under or for the purposes of any regulations under  section 88
(alcoholic products regulations) of the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023, and

2.3.2.b

is a decision as to whether or not a person is to be required to give security
for the fulfilment of an obligation or as to the form or amount of, or the
conditions of, the security.

2.3.3

Any decision which is made under or for the purposes of any regulations under
section 90  (denatured alcohol) or  section 92  (regulations relating to
denatured alcohol) of the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023 and is a decision—

2.3.3.a

as to whether or not any process is to be, or to continue to be, approved for
any purposes;

2.3.3.b

as to the conditions subject to which the approval is given;

2.3.3.c

as to the revocation or variation of an approval;

2.3.3.d

as to whether or not a person is to be required to give security for the
fulfilment of an obligation or as to the form or amount of, or the conditions
of, the security.

2.3.4

Any decision which—

2.3.4.a

is made under paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to the Finance Act 2001, and

2.3.4.b

relates to  Part 2  of the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023.

Alcohol duty: duty stamps

Section 112

##### Retail containers to be stamped

1

1.1

Retail containers of alcoholic products to which  this Schedule  applies are
to be stamped—

1.1.a

in such cases and circumstances, and with a duty stamp of such a type, as may
be prescribed; but

1.1.b

subject to such exceptions as may be prescribed.

1.2

In  this Schedule  “ retail container ”, in relation to an alcoholic product,
means a container—

1.2.a

of a capacity of 35 centilitres or more, and

1.2.b

in which, or from which, the alcoholic product is intended to be sold by
retail.

1.3

This Schedule  applies to alcoholic products that are—

1.3.a

spirits, wine or other fermented products, and

1.3.b

of an alcoholic strength of at least 30%.

1.4

For the purposes of  this Schedule  a retail container is “stamped” if—

1.4.a

it carries a type A stamp or a label which incorporates a type B stamp, and

1.4.b

the stamp or label mentioned in  paragraph (a)  has been affixed to the
container in a way that complies with the requirements of regulations under
this Schedule .

1.5

In  this Schedule  “ duty stamp ” means any of the following—

1.5.a

a document (a “type A stamp”) issued by or on behalf of the Commissioners
which—

1.5.a.i

is designed to be affixed to a retail container of an alcoholic product, and

1.5.a.ii

indicates that the appropriate duty, or an amount representing some or all of
the appropriate duty, has been (or is to be) paid;

1.5.b

a part of a label for a retail container of an alcoholic product (a “type B
stamp”) which—

1.5.b.i

is incorporated in the label under the authority of the Commissioners, and

1.5.b.ii

indicates that the appropriate duty, or an amount representing some or all of
the appropriate duty, has been (or is to be) paid.

1.6

In  sub-paragraph (5)  “ the appropriate duty ” means the duty chargeable on
the quantity and description of the alcoholic product contained, or to be
contained, in the retail container to which the stamp, or the label
incorporating the stamp, is, or is to be, affixed.

##### Power to alter alcoholic products, and capacity of containers, to which 

2

2.1

The Treasury may by regulations amend  paragraph 1 (2) (a)  for the purpose of
varying the capacity from time to time specified in that provision.

2.2

The Treasury may by regulations amend  paragraph 1 (3)  so that  this Schedule
—

2.2.a

applies to any description of alcoholic product to which it does not apply, or

2.2.b

ceases to apply to any description of alcoholic product to which it does
apply.

##### Acquisition of, and payment for, duty stamps

3

3.1

The Commissioners may by regulations make provision as to the terms and
conditions on which a person may obtain—

3.1.a

a type A stamp,

3.1.b

authority to incorporate in a label a type B stamp,

3.1.c

authority to obtain a label incorporating a type B stamp (a “type B label”),

3.1.d

authority to affix a type B label to a retail container of an alcoholic
product.

3.2

Regulations under  sub-paragraph (1)  may in particular make provision for or
in connection with—

3.2.a

requiring a person in prescribed cases or circumstances to pay, or agree to
pay, the prescribed amount to the Commissioners or to a person authorised by
the Commissioners for this purpose;

3.2.b

requiring a person in prescribed cases or circumstances to provide to the
Commissioners such security as they may require in respect of payment of the
appropriate duty.

3.3

An amount prescribed for the purposes of  sub-paragraph (2) (a)  must not
exceed the aggregate of—

3.3.a

an amount representing the appropriate duty, and

3.3.b

in the case of a type A stamp, the cost of issuing the stamp.

3.4

Regulations under  sub-paragraph (1)  may also in particular make provision
for or in connection with requiring or enabling the Commissioners to bear, in
prescribed circumstances, in the case of a type B stamp, all or part of so
much of the cost of producing the label as is attributable to the
incorporation in it of the stamp.

3.5

The whole of an amount payable for a duty stamp shall be treated for the
purposes of the customs and excise Acts as an amount due by way of excise
duty.

3.6

In  this paragraph  “ the appropriate duty ” means the duty chargeable on the
quantity and description of alcoholic product contained, or to be contained,
in the retail container to which the stamp, or the label incorporating the
stamp, is to be affixed.

##### Regulations

4

4.1

The Commissioners may by regulations make provision about matters relating to
duty stamps.

4.2

The regulations may, in particular, make provision about—

4.2.a

the times at which a retail container must bear a duty stamp;

4.2.b

the type of duty stamp (see  paragraph 1 (5) ) with which a retail container
is to be stamped in any particular case or circumstances;

4.2.c

the design and appearance of a duty stamp (including the production of a type
B label);

4.2.d

the information that is to appear on a duty stamp;

4.2.e

the cost of issuing a type A stamp for the purposes of  paragraph 3 (3) (b) ;

4.2.f

the procedure for obtaining—

4.2.f.i

a type A stamp,

4.2.f.ii

authority to incorporate in a label a type B stamp,

4.2.f.iii

authority to obtain a type B label,

4.2.f.iv

authority to affix a type B label to a retail container of an alcoholic
product,

(including provision setting periods of notice);

4.2.g

where on the container a type A stamp, or a type B label, is to be affixed;

4.2.h

repayment of, or credit for, in prescribed circumstances and subject to such
conditions as may be prescribed, all or part of a payment made under or by
reason of  this Schedule  to the Commissioners or to a person authorised by
the Commissioners;

4.2.i

liability to forfeiture in prescribed circumstances of some or all of a
payment made, or security provided, under or by reason of  this Schedule  to
the Commissioners or to a person authorised by the Commissioners.

4.3

The regulations may also, in particular, make provision for or in connection
with preventing a type A stamp, or a type B label, from being used by a person
other than—

4.3.a

in the case of a type A stamp, the person to or for whom the stamp was issued
or a person authorised by that person to affix the stamp to a retail container
of an alcoholic product;

4.3.b

in the case of a type B stamp, the person to or for whom authority to obtain
the type B label, or to affix that label to a retail container of an alcoholic
product, was given by the Commissioners.

4.4

The regulations may also, in particular, make provision—

4.4.a

for or in connection with requiring a person (“ P ”) who is not established,
and does not have any fixed establishment, in the United Kingdom, in
prescribed circumstances, to appoint another person (a “duty stamps
representative”) to act on P’s behalf in relation to duty stamps, and

4.4.b

as to the rights, obligations or liabilities of duty stamps representatives.

4.5

The Commissioners may, with a view to the protection of the revenue, make
regulations for securing and collecting duty payable in accordance with  this
Schedule .

##### Offences of possession, sale etc of unstamped containers

5

5.1

Except in such cases as may be prescribed, it is an offence for a person to—

5.1.a

possess, transport or display, or

5.1.b

sell, offer for sale or otherwise deal in,

unstamped retail containers containing alcoholic products to which  this
Schedule  applies.

5.2

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under  this paragraph  to
prove that the retail containers in question were not required to be stamped.

5.3

A person who commits an offence under  this paragraph  is liable—

5.3.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to a fine not exceeding £20,000;

5.3.b

on summary conviction in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding
level 5 on the standard scale.

5.4

A retail container in relation to which an offence under  this paragraph  is
committed is liable to forfeiture (together with its contents).

##### Offence of using premises for sale of alcoholic products in or from unstamped containers

6

6.1

It is an offence for a manager of premises to cause or permit the premises to
be used for the sale of alcoholic products, to which  this Schedule  applies,
in or from an unstamped retail container.

6.2

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under this section to
prove that the retail container in question was not required to be stamped.

6.3

A person who commits an offence under  this paragraph  is liable—

6.3.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to a fine not exceeding £20,000;

6.3.b

on summary conviction in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding
level 5 on the standard scale.

6.4

Where an offence under  this paragraph  is committed, all unstamped retail
containers of alcoholic products on the premises at the time of the offence
are liable to forfeiture (together with their contents).

6.5

For the purposes of  this Schedule , a person is a “manager” of premises if
the person—

6.5.a

is entitled to control their use,

6.5.b

is entrusted with their management, or

6.5.c

is in charge of them.

##### Alcohol sales ban following conviction for an offence under 

7

7.1

A court by or before which a person is convicted of an offence under
paragraph 6  may make an order prohibiting the use of the premises, in respect
of which the offence was committed, for the sale of alcoholic products during
a period specified in the order.

7.2

The period—

7.2.a

begins on the day specified in the order, and

7.2.b

may not exceed 6 months.

7.3

It is an offence for a manager of premises to cause or permit the premises to
be used in breach of an order under  this paragraph .

7.4

A person who commits an offence under  this paragraph  is liable—

7.4.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to a fine not exceeding £20,000;

7.4.b

on summary conviction in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding
level 5 on the standard scale.

##### Penalty for altering duty stamps

8

8.1

This paragraph  applies where a person, otherwise than in accordance with
regulations under  this Schedule —

8.1.a

alters a type A stamp after it has been issued, or

8.1.b

alters a type B stamp after the label in which it is incorporated has been
produced.

8.2

The alteration is conduct which attracts a penalty under section 9 of FA 1994
(civil penalties).

8.3

The stamp, or the label in which it is incorporated, is liable to forfeiture.

##### Penalty for affixing wrong, altered or forged stamps, or over-labelling

9

9.1

This paragraph  applies where a person affixes to a retail container that is
required to be stamped any of the items mentioned in  sub-paragraphs (2)  to
(5) .

9.2

The first is—

9.2.a

a type A stamp, or

9.2.b

a label incorporating a type B stamp,

if the stamp is not a correct stamp for that container in accordance with
regulations under  this Schedule .

9.3

The second is—

9.3.a

a type A stamp that has been altered, otherwise than in accordance with
regulations under  this Schedule , after it has been issued, or

9.3.b

a label incorporating a type B stamp if the stamp has been altered, otherwise
than in accordance with regulations under  this Schedule , after the label has
been produced.

9.4

The third is an item that purports to be (but is not)—

9.4.a

a type A stamp, or

9.4.b

a label incorporating a type B stamp.

9.5

The fourth is any label or other item affixed in such a way as to cover up all
or part of—

9.5.a

a type A stamp affixed to the container, or

9.5.b

a type B stamp incorporated in a label affixed to the container,

except where the label or other item is so affixed in accordance with
regulations under  this Schedule .

9.6

The person’s conduct attracts a penalty under section 9 of FA 1994 (civil
penalties).

9.7

The retail container is liable to forfeiture (together with its contents).

##### Penalty for failing to comply with regulations

10

10.1

If a person fails to comply with a requirement imposed by or under regulations
under  this Schedule —

10.1.a

the person’s conduct attracts a penalty under section 9 of FA 1994;

10.1.b

any article in respect of which the person fails to comply with the
requirement is liable to forfeiture (including, in the case of a container,
its contents).

10.2

Regulations under  this Schedule  may make provision as to the amount by
reference to which the penalty under  sub-paragraph (1) (a)  is to be
calculated.

##### Forfeiture of forged, altered or stolen duty stamps

11

11.1

The following items are liable to forfeiture.

11.2

The first is an item that purports to be (but is not)—

11.2.a

a type A stamp, or

11.2.b

a label incorporating a type B stamp.

11.3

The second is—

11.3.a

a type A stamp that has been altered, otherwise than in accordance with
regulations under  this Schedule , after it has been issued, or

11.3.b

a label incorporating a type B stamp if the stamp has been altered, otherwise
than in accordance with regulations under  this Schedule , after the label has
been produced.

11.4

The third is—

11.4.a

a type A stamp, or

11.4.b

a label incorporating a type B stamp,

that is in a person’s possession unlawfully.

##### Interpretation

12

In  this Schedule —

“ duty stamp ” has the meaning given by  paragraph 1 (5) ; “ prescribed ”
means prescribed in regulations made by the Commissioners; “ retail container
” has the meaning given by  paragraph 1 (2) ; “ stamped ” and “unstamped” are
to be read in accordance with  paragraph 1 (4) ; “ type A stamp ” has the
meaning given by  paragraph 1 (5) (a) ; “ type B stamp ” has the meaning given
by  paragraph 1 (5) (b) .

Alcohol duty: minor and consequential amendments

Section 114

##### General

###### CEMA 1979

1

CEMA 1979 is amended in accordance with  paragraphs 2  to 5 .

2

2.1

Section 1 (interpretation) is amended as follows.

2.2

In subsection (1), in the definition of “the Customs and Excise Acts 1979”,
after “the Tobacco Products Duty Act 1979” insert—

and references (however expressed) to the Customs and Excise Acts 1979, or to
the group of Acts included in the Customs and Excise Acts 1979, include
references to  Part 2  of the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023 (alcohol duty);

2.3

In subsection (3), omit “Alcoholic Liquor Duties Act 1979” and the list of
expressions relating to that Act.

2.4

After subsection (3) insert—

2.4.3ZA

Any expression used in this Act or in any instrument made under this Act to
which a meaning is given by  Part 2  of the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023 (alcohol
duty) has, except where the context otherwise requires, the same meaning in
this Act or any such instrument as in that Part; and for ease of reference the
following is a list of the expressions concerned—

“ alcoholic product ” “ beer ” “ cider ” “ other fermented product ” “ spirits
” “ wholesaler ” “ wine ”.

3

In section 112 (power of entry upon premises, etc of revenue traders), in
subsection (5), for “dutiable alcoholic liquors” substitute  “alcoholic
products” .

4

4.1

Section 114 (power to prohibit use of certain substances in exciseable goods)
is amended as follows.

4.2

In subsections (1) and (2), for “or liquor”, in each place it occurs,
substitute  “, product or liquid” .

4.3

In subsection (3)—

4.3.a

for “or liquor” substitute  “, product or liquid” ;

4.3.b

for “substance or liquid” substitute  “substance, product or liquid” .

5

In section 163A (power to search articles), in subsection (2), in the words
before paragraph (a), for “dutiable alcoholic liquor” substitute  “alcoholic
products” .

###### Customs and Excise Duties (General Reliefs) Act 1979

6

In section 18 of the Customs and Excise Duties (General Reliefs) Act 1979
(interpretation) in subsection (2), for “Alcoholic Liquor Duties Act 1979”
substitute  “ Part 2  of the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023” .

###### Excise Duties (Surcharges or Rebates) Act 1979

7

In section 1 of the Excise Duties (Surcharges or Rebates) Act 1979 (surcharges
or rebates of amounts due for excise duties), in subsection (1), for paragraph
(a) substitute—

7.a

that chargeable in respect of alcoholic products;

.

###### FA 1994

8

FA 1994 is amended in accordance with  paragraphs 9  to  14 .

9

In section 12 (assessments to excise duty), in subsection (2)(ca), for
“Schedule 2A to the Alcoholic Liquor Duties Act 1979” substitute  “ Schedule
12  to the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023” .

10

In section 12A (other assessments relating to excise duty matters), in
subsection (3), for paragraph (bb) substitute—

10.bb

section 60 ,  78  or  79  of the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023,

.

11

11.1

Section 12B (section 12A: supplementary provisions) is amended as follows.

11.2

In subsection (2), for paragraphs (ea) and (eb) substitute—

11.2.ea

in the case of an assessment under  section 78  of the Finance (No. 2) Act
2023, the time of delivery from the relevant premises (as defined in that
section);

11.2.eb

in the case of an assessment under  section 79  of that Act, the time of
importation;

.

11.3

In subsection (2)(ec), for “section 36G of that Act” substitute  “ section 60
of that Act” .

12

In section 16 (appeals to a tribunal), in subsection (3A), for “section 8, 10
or 11 of the Alcoholic Liquor Duties Act 1979” substitute  “ section 78  or
79  of the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023 (alcohol duty: certain reliefs or
exemptions for spirits)” .

13

In section 16A (temporary approvals etc. pending review or appeal), in
subsection (2)(c) for “section 88C ALDA 1979” substitute  “ section 100  of
the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023” .

14

In Schedule 5 (decisions subject to review and appeal)—

14.a

in the shoulder reference, for “Section 14” substitute  “Section 13A” ;

14.b

omit paragraph 9ZA (and the heading preceding it).

###### VATA 1994

15

15.1

In Part 2 of Schedule 8 to VATA 1994 (zero-rating: groups), Group 1 (food) is
amended as follows.

15.2

In excepted item 3, for the words from “any duty” to “made-wine” substitute
“alcohol duty under  Part 2  of the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023” .

15.3

In excepted item 7, in paragraph (c), for “made-wine” substitute  “other
fermented products (as defined in  Part 2  of the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023)” .

###### FA 2001

16

In paragraph 1(2) of Schedule 3 to FA 2001 (excise duty: payments by the
Commissioners in case of error or delay)—

16.a

in paragraph (a), for “section 8(1) or 10(1) of the Alcoholic Liquor Duties
Act 1979” substitute  “ section 78  of the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023 (alcohol
duty: authorised use for certain purposes)” ;

16.b

omit paragraph (b).

###### FA 2007

17

In Schedule 24 to FA 2007 (penalties for errors), in the Table in paragraph 1,
for the entry relating to alcoholic liquor duties and statements or
declarations in connection with a claim for repayment of duty under section
4(4) of FA 1995 substitute—

Alcohol duty Statement or declaration in connection with a claim for repayment
of duty under  section 75  of F(No. 2)A 2023.

###### FA 2008

18

18.1

Schedule 41 to FA 2008 (penalties: failure to notify etc.) is amended as
follows.

18.2

In the Table in paragraph 1, for the entry relating to alcohol liquor duties
and the obligation to be authorised and registered to obtain and use duty
stamps under regulations under ALDA 1979 substitute—

Alcohol duty Obligations under  section 91  of F(No. 2)A 2023 (licence to
manufacture and deal wholesale in denatured alcohol). Alcohol duty Obligation
to be authorised and registered to obtain and use duty stamps under
regulations under  paragraph 4  of  Schedule 12  to F(No. 2)A 2023 (duty
stamps).

18.3

In the Table in paragraph 3, for the three entries relating to ALDA 1979
substitute—

Part 2 of F(No. 2)A 2023 (alcohol duty),  section 53 (2) Unauthorised
repackaging of qualifying draught products. Part 2 of F(No. 2)A 2023 (alcohol
duty),  section 78 (8) Spirits: authorised use for certain purposes. Part 2 of
F(No. 2)A 2023 (alcohol duty),  section 79 (2) Spirits: imported goods not for
human consumption.

###### TCTA 2018

19

19.1

TCTA 2018 is amended as follows.

19.2

In section 49 (sections 44 to 48: interpretation), in the definition of
“excise duty”, for paragraph (a) substitute—

19.2.a

Part 2  of the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023 (alcohol duty),

.

19.3

In section 53 (meaning of “ excise duty ”), for paragraph (a) substitute—

19.3.a

Part 2  of the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023 (alcohol duty),

.

###### Taxation (Post-transition Period) Act 2020

20

In section 4(2) of the Taxation (Post-transition Period) Act 2020 (“relevant
excise duty provision”), for paragraphs (a) to (f) substitute—

20.a

section 42 of F(No.2) A 2023 (alcohol);

.

##### Approvals etc.

###### CEMA 1979

21

CEMA 1979 is amended in accordance with  paragraphs 22  to 27 .

22

22.1

Section 1(1) (interpretation:defined terms) is amended as follows.

22.2

In the definition of “the Customs and Excise Acts 1979”, omit “the Alcoholic
Liquor Duties Act 1979,”.

22.3

In the definition of “excise warehouse”, omit “, and, except in that section,
also includes a distiller's warehouse”.

22.4

In the definition of “warehouse”—

22.4.a

for “expressions” substitute  “expression” ;

22.4.b

omit “and “distiller's warehouse””;

22.4.c

omit “and, except in that section, also includes a distiller's warehouse”.

23

23.1

Section 112 (power of entry upon premises, etc of revenue traders) is amended
as follows.

23.2

In subsection (3), for the words from “distiller” to “occupier” substitute  “a
person who produces alcoholic products or an occupier” .

23.3

In subsection (6), for “a distiller” substitute  “a person who produces
alcoholic products” .

24

In section 113 (power to search for concealed pipes etc), in subsection (6),
for the words for the words from “distillers” to “cider” substitute  “persons
who produce alcoholic products” .

25

In section 136 (offences in connection with claims for drawback etc), in
subsection (5), for paragraph (b) substitute—

25.b

section 74  of the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023 (remission or repayment of duty on
spoilt alcoholic products).

26

26.1

Section 160 (power to take samples) is amended as follows.

26.2

In subsection (2), for the words from “any of the following” to “cider”
substitute  “a revenue trader to whom this subsection applies” .

26.3

After subsection (2) insert—

26.3.2A

The revenue traders to whom subsection (2) applies are persons who produce
alcoholic products.

27

In section 178 (citation) in subsection (2), omit “the Alcoholic Liquor Duties
Act 1979,”.

###### FA 1994

28

In section 16A of FA 1994 (temporary approvals etc. pending review or appeal),
at the end of subsection (2) insert—

28.g

approved under  section 82  of the Finance (No. 2) Act 2023 (approval to
produce alcoholic products).

###### FA 2007

29

29.1

The Table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 24 to FA 2007 (penalties for errors) is
amended as follows.

29.2

Omit the entry relating to alcoholic liquor duties and returns under
regulations under section 13, 49, 56 or 62 of ALDA 1979.

29.3

After the entry relating to alcohol duty (inserted by paragraph 17 of this
Schedule) insert—

Alcohol duty Return under regulations under  section 88  of F(No. 2)A 2023.

###### FA 2008

30

30.1

The Table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 41 to FA 2008 (penalties: failure to
notify etc.) is amended as follows.

30.2

After the entry relating to air passenger duty insert—

Alcohol duty Obligations under  section 88  of F(No. 2)A 2023 (approval
requirement: producers).

30.3

Omit—

30.3.a

the entry relating to alcohol liquor duties and obligations under sections
12(1), 47(1), 54(2), 55(2) and 62(2) of ALDA 1979 (obligations to hold licence
to manufacture spirits, register to brew beer, hold licence to produce wine or
made-wine and register to make cider), and

30.3.b

the entry relating to alcohol liquor duties and the obligation to have plant
and processes approved for the manufacture of spirits under regulations under
section 15(6) of ALDA 1979 (distillers' warehouses).

###### FA 2009

31

FA 2009 is amended in accordance with paragraphs 32 and 33.

32

32.1

In Schedule 55 (penalty for failure to make returns etc), in the Table in
paragraph 1, for item 18 substitute—

18 Alcohol duty Return under regulations under  section 88  of F(No.2)A 2023

.

32.2

In subsections (2) and (4) of section 106 (penalties for failure to make
returns: commencement) references to Schedule 55 to that Act have effect as
references to that Schedule as amended by this paragraph.

33

33.1

In Schedule 56 (penalty for failure to make payments on time), in the Table in
paragraph 1, for item 11E substitute—

11E Alcohol duty Amount payable under regulations under  section 88  of F(No.
2)A 2023 (except an amount falling within item 17A, 23 or 24) The date
determined by or under regulations under  section 88  of F(No. 2)A 2023 as the
date by which the amount must be paid

.

33.2

In subsections (2) and (4) of section 107 (penalties for failure to pay tax)
references to Schedule 56 to that Act have effect as references to that
Schedule as amended by this paragraph.

Administration of multinational top-up tax

Section 125

##### Overview

1

1.1

The Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs are responsible for
the collection and management of multinational top-up tax.

1.2

This Schedule —

1.2.a

contains provision to enable HMRC to determine when a person is chargeable to
multinational top-up tax for an accounting period;

1.2.b

contains requirements to provide information to HMRC for the purposes of
multinational top-up and taxes under the law of other territories that are
equivalent to multinational top-up tax;

1.2.c

allows for the assessment of amounts of multinational top-up tax;

1.2.d

sets out associated administrative provisions;

1.2.e

makes consequential and other amendments to other enactments.

1.3

This Schedule  makes provision about a “filing member” of a multinational
group (see Part  2 ) and contains provision requiring such a member to—

1.3.a

register with HMRC (see Part  3 );

1.3.b

submit an information return to HMRC (see Part  4 );

1.3.c

submit a self-assessment return to HMRC (see Part  5 );

1.3.d

keep and preserve records (see Part  9 ).

1.4

Part 10  of  this Schedule  makes provision for when and how payment of
multinational top-up tax payable is to be made.

1.5

This Schedule  makes provision for—

1.5.a

penalties (see Part  11 );

1.5.b

appeals and claims for repayment of overpaid tax (see Part  12 ).

##### Meaning of “filing member”

2

2.1

The filing member of a multinational group is the ultimate parent of that
group, unless a nomination under sub-paragraph  (2)  is in force.

2.2

The nomination referred to in  sub-paragraph (1)  is a nomination by the
ultimate parent of the group that another person should act as the filing
member.

2.3

The ultimate parent may only nominate a person if—

2.3.a

the person is a member of the group, and

2.3.b

the person is a company.

2.4

If the ultimate parent nominates a person under sub-paragraph  (2) , they
must—

2.4.a

nominate the same person as the filing member for the purposes of  Schedule 18
;

2.4.b

if the nomination ceases to be in force, revoke the nomination referred to in
paragraph  (a) ;

2.4.c

if the nomination referred to in paragraph  (a)  ceases to be in force, revoke
the nomination.

2.5

The ultimate parent must provide the person nominated with everything the
person may reasonably require in order to comply with the obligations of a
filing member under  this Schedule .

2.6

While a nomination under  sub-paragraph (2)  is in force, the filing member of
a multinational group is the person nominated.

2.7

A nomination is in force from the time it is made until any of the following
events occurs—

2.7.a

the ultimate parent nominates another person;

2.7.b

the person nominated ceases to be a member of the group;

2.7.c

the person nominated ceases to be a company;

2.7.d

the ultimate parent revokes the nomination;

2.7.e

an officer of Revenue and Customs revokes the nomination.

2.8

An officer of Revenue and Customs may revoke a nomination if the officer
considers that—

2.8.a

the ultimate parent is not complying with its obligation under sub-paragraph
(5) , or

2.8.b

the person nominated is not complying with the obligations of a filing member
under  this Schedule .

2.9

An officer of Revenue and Customs revokes a nomination by notifying the
ultimate parent and the nominated person of the revocation.

2.10

The revocation has effect when the notification is issued.

2.11

Any nomination, or revocation of a nomination, must be in writing.

2.12

Paragraph 3  makes provision for circumstances in which the ultimate parent is
the filing entity but is not a company.

2.13

Paragraph 4  makes specific provision for a multinational group that is part
of a multi-parent group.

2.14

Paragraph 5  makes provision for the effect of the filing member of a
multinational group changing.

3

3.1

This paragraph  applies where—

3.1.a

the filing member of a multinational group is its ultimate parent, and

3.1.b

the ultimate parent is not a company.

3.2

The obligations of the filing member under  this Schedule  may be met by—

3.2.a

in the case of a partnership other than a limited partnership  ..., any
partner;

3.2.b

in the case of a limited partnership, any general partner;

3.2.c

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.2.d

in the case of a trust, any trustee;

3.2.e

in the case of any other arrangement, any person responsible for preparing the
separate financial accounts.

3.3

In this Schedule—

3.3.a

“ limited partnership ” includes an entity established under the law of a
territory outside the United Kingdom that is equivalent to a limited
partnership, and

3.3.b

“ general partner ” includes a partner of such an entity that corresponds to a
general partner.

3.4

See also section 232A, which contains provision about the continuity of
partnerships which is relevant to this paragraph.

3.5

Where an obligation of a partnership may be met by one of its partners and the
partnership does not comply with that obligation—

3.5.a

an officer of Revenue and Customs may by notice require any such partner to
meet the obligation, and

3.5.b

that partner is to be treated for that purpose as the filing member (and
accordingly may be subject to any penalty for a failure to comply).

4

4.1

The obligations of a filing member of a multinational group that is part of a
multi-parent group may be met by the filing member of any of the groups that
are part of that multi-parent group, subject to  sub-paragraph (2) .

4.2

The obligations of the filing member may not be met by a person nominated
under  paragraph 2 (2)  unless the ultimate parent of each group forming the
multi-parent group has authorised the nomination.

4.3

Any authorisation must be in writing.

5

5.1

This paragraph  applies if at any time (“ the relevant time ”) a person (“the
new filing member”) becomes the filing member of a multinational group in
place of another person ( “the old filing member” ).

5.2

The obligations and liabilities of the new filing member under  this Schedule
include any obligations and liabilities the old filing member had under  this
Schedule .

5.3

Anything done as the filing member of the group by or in relation to the old
filing member, before the relevant time, is treated as having been done by or
in relation to the new filing member.

5.4

Accordingly, a penalty may be imposed on the new filing member in respect of
anything done before the relevant time if, at that time, a penalty could have
been imposed on the old filing member in respect of the thing done.

5.5

Anything done by HMRC in relation to the old filing member under  this
Schedule , before the end of the day the change is notified, is treated for
all purposes under  this Schedule  as done in relation to the new filing
member.

5.6

Anything that, at any time during the period beginning with the relevant time
and ending with the day the change is notified, is in the process of being
done under  this Schedule  in relation to the old filing member may be
continued in relation to the new filing member.

5.7

Accordingly, any reference in an enactment or other instrument to the filing
member of the group is to be read, so far as necessary for the purposes of
giving effect to any of  sub-paragraphs (2)  to  (6) , as being or including a
reference to the new filing member.

5.8

In  this paragraph —

5.8.a

any reference to an act includes an omission;

5.8.b

any reference to the day the change is notified is to the day on which an
officer of Revenue and Customs receives notification that the new filing
member has become the filing member of the group.

5.9

Nothing in  this paragraph —

5.9.a

prevents HMRC or anyone else, after the relevant time, from imposing a
penalty, exercising any other power, or doing anything else, in relation to
the old filing member in respect of anything done before the relevant time, or

5.9.b

affects the validity of anything done before the relevant time.

##### Registration

6

6.1

The filing member of a multinational group must register with HMRC if the
group becomes a qualifying multinational group.

6.1A

The reference to a multinational group in sub-paragraph (1) does not include a
group exclusively comprised of excluded entities (who are only regarded as
members of the group for certain purposes in accordance with section 127(2)).

6.2

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) , a multinational group becomes a
qualifying multinational group on the first day of the first accounting period
it is a qualifying multinational group (the  “trigger day” ).

6.3

A filing member registers with HMRC by providing specified information to
HMRC.

6.4

The specified information is—

6.4.a

the name of the filing member;

6.4.b

the name of the ultimate parent (if different to the filing member);

6.4.c

the date of the trigger day;

6.4.d

the date on which the accounting period in which the trigger day occurs will
end or has ended;

6.4.e

any other information that may be specified in a notice published by HMRC.

6.5

The information must be provided in the way specified in a notice published by
HMRC.

6.6

The information must be provided by the end of the period of six months
beginning with the day after the accounting period in which the trigger day
occurs ends.

6.7

In this Schedule, a “ registered group ” means a multinational group that is
registered under this paragraph.

6.8

A multinational group is registered under this paragraph if—

6.8.a

the filing member of the group has registered under this paragraph, and

6.8.b

a notice of de-registration is not in force in relation to the registration
(see paragraph  7 ).

6.9

Paragraphs 8  and  9  provide further notification requirements in relation to
a registered group.

7

7.1

This paragraph applies where the filing member of a multinational group has
registered under paragraph  6 .

7.2

An officer of Revenue and Customs may issue the filing member with a notice of
de-registration in relation to the registration.

7.3

The effect of an officer issuing a notice of de-registration is that,
beginning with the effective date, the registration to which the notice
relates is not to be treated as a registration under paragraph  6 .

7.4

“The effective date” is a date specified in or determined by reference to the
notice as the date on which the notice takes effect.

7.5

But a notice of de-registration does not affect the validity of a registration
for the purposes of any obligation arising before the effective date.

7.6

An officer or Revenue and Customs may issue a notice of de-registration only
if—

7.6.a

the filing member has applied for such a notice, and

7.6.b

it appears to the officer that the group will not be a qualifying
multinational group for any accounting period beginning with the period in
which the effective date falls.

8

8.1

This paragraph  applies where the filing member of a registered group changes.

8.2

The new filing member must notify HMRC of the change before the end of the
period of 6 months beginning with the day the change occurs.

8.3

But, if the change occurs before the end of the period referred to in
paragraph  6 (6) , the new filing member may notify HMRC of the change at any
time before the end of that period even if later than the end of the period in
sub-paragraph  (2) .

8.4

The notification must be given in the way specified in a notice published by
HMRC.

9

9.1

The filing member of a registered group must notify HMRC of any other change
to the information provided under  paragraph 6 .

9.2

The notification must be given before the end of the period of 6 months
beginning with the day on which the change occurs.

9.3

But, if the change occurs before the end of the period referred to in
paragraph  6 (6) , the filing member may notify HMRC of the change at any time
before the end of that period even if later than the end of the period in sub-
paragraph  (2) .

9.4

The notification must be given in the way specified in a notice published by
HMRC.

##### Information returns

10

10.1

The filing member of a registered group must submit an information return to
HMRC for each accounting period in which the group is a qualifying
multinational group, unless sub-paragraph  (4)  applies.

10.2

An “information return” is a return containing the following information—

10.2.a

identification of the members of the group;

10.2.b

information on the overall corporate structure of the group;

10.2.c

information relevant to the determination of effective tax rates, top-up
amounts or allocation of top-up amounts;

10.2.d

such other information specified in a notice published by HMRC as HMRC may
consider relevant to the sharing of information between Pillar Two territories
in connection with the Pillar Two rules.

10.3

HMRC may specify in a notice the particular items of information to be
submitted as part of an information return.

10.4

This sub-paragraph applies if an information return has been submitted for
that period to another qualifying authority.

10.5

A “qualifying authority” is an authority outside the United Kingdom with which
HMRC has an agreement under which the authority will share the information
contained in information returns submitted to that authority with HMRC.

10.6

If  sub-paragraph (4)  applies, the filing member must notify HMRC (an
“overseas return notification”).

10.7

An information return or overseas return notification must be submitted in the
way specified in a notice published by HMRC.

10.8

HMRC may specify in a notice that other information is to be provided together
with an overseas return notification.

10.9

An information return or overseas return notification must be submitted by the
end of the period of 15 months beginning with the day after the end of the
accounting period in respect of which the return or notification is being
submitted.

10.10

But the longer period in sub-paragraph  (11)  applies if the return or
notification is being submitted in respect of the first accounting period in
relation to which the group is a registered group.

10.11

Where this sub-paragraph applies, the information return or overseas return
notification must be submitted by the end of the period of 18 months beginning
with the day after the end of the accounting period.

11

11.1

The filing member may amend a return submitted under paragraph  10  by notice
to HMRC.

11.2

The filing member may further amend a return previously amended by further
notice to HMRC.

11.3

No amendment may be made after the end of the period of 12 months beginning
with the day after the latest date by which the return or notification was
required to be submitted under paragraph  10 .

11.4

An amendment must be submitted in the way specified in a notice published by
HMRC.

12

HMRC may take into account an information return in performing any of its
functions.

##### Self-assessment returns

13

13.1

The filing member of a registered group must submit a self-assessment return
to HMRC for each accounting period, unless  sub-paragraph (3)  applies.

13.2

A “self-assessment return” is a return containing—

13.2.a

an assessment by the filing member as to—

13.2.a.i

which members of the group are chargeable to multinational top-up tax, and

13.2.a.ii

the amount of multinational top-up tax is chargeable to each such member, and

13.2.b

such other information as may be specified in a notice published by HMRC.

13.3

This sub-paragraph applies if—

13.3.a

the conditions in sub-paragraph  (5)  are met in relation to the group for the
accounting period,

13.3.b

the filing member has submitted a below-threshold notification to HMRC, and

13.3.c

the filing member has not withdrawn the below-threshold notification.

13.4

A “below-threshold notification” is a notification that the filing member—

13.4.a

considers that the conditions in sub-paragraph  (5)  are met for an accounting
period, and

13.4.b

does not expect that the conditions will cease to be met for that accounting
period or any subsequent accounting period.

13.5

The conditions are that—

13.5.a

the group was not a qualifying multinational group in the accounting period,
and

13.5.b

the group is unlikely to be a qualifying multinational group in the next two
accounting periods.

13.6

A self-assessment return or below-threshold notification must be submitted in
the way specified in a notice published by HMRC.

13.7

HMRC may specify in a notice that other information is to be provided together
with a below-threshold notification.

13.8

A self-assessment return or below-threshold notification must be submitted by
the end of the period of 15 months beginning with the day after the end of the
accounting period in respect of which the return or notification is being
submitted.

13.9

But the longer period in sub-paragraph  (10)  applies if a self-assessment
return is being submitted in respect of the first accounting period in
relation to which the group is a registered group.

13.10

Where this sub-paragraph applies, the self-assessment return must be submitted
by the end of the period of 18 months beginning with the day after the end of
the accounting period.

14

14.1

The filing member may amend a return submitted under  paragraph 13  by notice
to HMRC.

14.2

The filing member may further amend a return previously amended by further
notice to HMRC.

14.3

No amendment may be made after the end of the period of 12 months beginning
with the day after the latest date by which the return or notification was
required to be submitted under  paragraph 13 .

14.4

An amendment must be submitted in the way specified in a notice published by
HMRC.

##### Enquiries into a self-assessment return

15

15.1

This Part  of  this Schedule  applies if the filing member of a multinational
group has submitted a self-assessment return under  paragraph 13  for an
accounting period.

15.2

In  this Part  “ return ” means a self-assessment return (including as amended
under  paragraph 14 ).

16

16.1

An officer of Revenue and Customs may enquire into the return if, within the
time allowed, the officer gives notice to the filing member of the officer's
intention to do so.

16.2

The time allowed is—

16.2.a

if the return was submitted on or before the submission date, up to the end of
the period of 12 months after the submission date;

16.2.b

if the return was submitted after the submission date, up to and including the
quarter day next following the first anniversary of the day on which the
return was delivered;

16.2.c

if the return is amended under  paragraph 14 , up to and including the quarter
day next following the first anniversary of the day on which the return was
amended.

16.3

The submission date is the day ending the period for submission of the return
referred to in  paragraph 13 (8)  (or the longer period referred to in
paragraph  13 (10)  where applicable).

16.4

The quarter days are 31 January, 30 April, 31 July and 31 October.

16.5

A notice under  this paragraph  is referred to in  this Part  of  this
Schedule  as a “notice of enquiry”.

16.6

A return that has been the subject of one notice of enquiry may not be the
subject of another, except one given in consequence of an amendment of the
return.

17

17.1

An enquiry may extend to anything contained in the return, or required to be
contained in the return, including anything that relates—

17.1.a

to the question of whether multinational top-up tax is chargeable in respect
of the accounting period, or

17.1.b

to the amount of tax so chargeable.

17.2

But, where the notice of enquiry is given in consequence of an amendment of a
return—

17.2.a

at a time when it is no longer possible to give a notice of enquiry under
paragraph 16 (2) (a)  or  (b) ,

17.2.b

after a partial closure notice (see paragraph  22 (1) ) has been issued in
relation to the matters to which the amendment relates or which are affected
by the amendment, or

17.2.c

after an enquiry into a return has been completed,

the enquiry into the return is limited to matters to which the amendment
relates or that are affected by the amendment.

18

18.1

For the purposes of  this Part  an enquiry is in progress into a return for
the whole of the period—

18.1.a

beginning with the day on which notice of enquiry is given in relation to that
return, and

18.1.b

ending with the day on which the enquiry is completed.

18.2

The enquiry is completed on the day a final closure notice is given (see
paragraph  22 (2) ).

19

19.1

If at a time when an enquiry is in progress into a return an officer of
Revenue and Customs forms the opinion—

19.1.a

that an amount stated in the return as the amount of multinational top-up tax
payable by a member of the group is insufficient, and

19.1.b

that unless the assessment in the return is immediately amended there is
likely to be a loss of tax to the Crown,

the officer may by notice in writing to the filing member amend the assessment
to make good the deficiency.

19.2

In the case of an enquiry that under  paragraph 17 (2)  is limited to matters
arising from an amendment of the return,  sub-paragraph (1)  applies only so
far as the deficiency is attributable to the amendment.

19.3

In the case of an enquiry in relation to which one or more partial closure
notices have been given, sub-paragraph  (1)  applies only so far as the
deficiency is attributable to matters not addressed by those notices.

20

20.1

This paragraph  applies if a return is amended at a time when an enquiry is in
progress into the return.

20.2

The amendment does not restrict the scope of the enquiry but may be taken into
account (together with any matters arising) in the enquiry (whether or not the
amendment takes effect under sub-paragraph  (4) ).

20.3

Sub-paragraph  (4)  applies where the amendment is made otherwise than under
paragraph  19 .

20.4

So far as the amendment affects the amount stated in the return as the amount
of tax payable, the amendment does not take effect, in relation to any matter
to which it relates or which is affected by it, while the enquiry is in
progress, except to the extent that—

20.4.a

a partial closure notice has been given in relation to a matter to which the
amendment relates or which is affected by it, and

20.4.b

the notice states that the amendment is to take effect.

20.5

The final closure notice—

20.5.a

must state whether and to what extent an amendment whose effect is deferred
under sub-paragraph  (4)  is to take effect;

20.5.b

may state that an amendment made under paragraph  19 , and whose effect is not
terminated or amended by a partial closure notice, is to cease to have effect
or is to be amended as specified in the notice.

21

21.1

At any time when an enquiry is in progress into a return any question arising
in connection with the subject-matter of the enquiry may be referred to the
tribunal for determination.

21.2

Notice of the referral must be given to the tribunal jointly by the filing
member and an officer of Revenue and Customs.

21.3

More than one notice of referral may be given in relation to an enquiry.

21.4

An officer of Revenue and Customs or the filing member may withdraw a notice
of referral.

21.5

The effect of the notice being withdrawn is that the questions referred are
not (unless they have already been finally determined) to be finally
determined by the tribunal.

21.6

While proceedings on a referral are in progress in relation to an enquiry—

21.6.a

no closure notice may be given in relation to the enquiry, and

21.6.b

no application may be made for a direction to give such a notice.

21.7

Proceedings are in progress where—

21.7.a

notice of referral has been given,

21.7.b

the notice has not been withdrawn, and

21.7.c

the questions referred have not been finally determined.

21.8

In  this paragraph , a question referred is finally determined when—

21.8.a

it has been determined by the tribunal, and

21.8.b

there is no further possibility of the determination being varied or set aside
(disregarding any power to grant permission to appeal out of time).

21.9

The determination of a question referred to the tribunal is binding on the
parties to the referral in the same way, and to the same extent, as a decision
on a preliminary issue in an appeal under Part  12  of  this Schedule .

21.10

The determination must be taken into account by an officer of Revenue and
Customs—

21.10.a

in reaching the officer's conclusions on the enquiry, and

21.10.b

in formulating any amendments of the return required to give effect to those
conclusions.

21.11

The question determined may not be reopened on an appeal under  Part 12  of
this Schedule , except to the extent that it could be reopened if it had been
determined as a preliminary issue in that appeal.

22

22.1

Any matter to which an enquiry into a return relates is completed by an
officer of Revenue and Customs giving the filing member a partial closure
notice.

22.2

An enquiry into a return is completed by an officer of Revenue and Customs
giving the filing member a final closure notice.

22.3

In this Part of this Schedule, “ closure notice ” means a partial closure
notice or a final closure notice.

22.4

A closure notice is a notice stating—

22.4.a

that the enquiry, or the enquiry in so far as it relates to a particular
matter, is complete;

22.4.b

the conclusion reached in the enquiry.

22.5

The conclusion must be one of the following—

22.5.a

that no amendment of the return is required, or

22.5.b

that the amendments of the return specified in the notice are to be made.

22.6

A closure notice takes effect when it is given to the filing member.

22.7

The officer—

22.7.a

must provide additional information together with the notice as to the basis
for the conclusion;

22.7.b

may provide such other information as the officer thinks fit.

22.8

A final closure notice may not, in relation to a matter to which a partial
closure notice relates, state a different conclusion in respect of that matter
to that stated in the partial closure notice.

23

23.1

The filing member may apply to the tribunal for a direction that an officer of
Revenue and Customs give a closure notice within a specified period.

23.2

The tribunal hearing the application must give a direction unless satisfied
that HMRC has reasonable grounds for not giving a closure notice within a
specified period.

23.3

An application under  this paragraph  is to be treated as an appeal under
Part 12  of  this Schedule .

##### Determinations where self-assessment return not submitted

24

This Part  of  this Schedule  applies if the filing member of a multinational
group has not submitted a self-assessment return under  paragraph 13  for an
accounting period.

25

25.1

An officer of Revenue and Customs may make a determination if—

25.1.a

the group is not a registered group and the officer has reasonable grounds to
believe the group should be, or

25.1.b

the officer has reasonable grounds to believe the filing member should have
submitted a self-assessment return.

25.2

A “determination” is a determination by the officer to the best of the
officer’s knowledge and belief as to the total amount of tax payable by a
member of the group for the accounting period.

25.3

The officer must give notice of the determination to the filing member.

25.4

The notice must state the date on which it was issued.

25.5

No determination may be made—

25.5.a

on or before the last date on which the return was required to be submitted or
would have been so required had the group been a registered group;

25.5.b

more than 3 years after that date.

26

26.1

If, after a determination has been made—

26.1.a

a self-assessment return is submitted for the accounting period, and

26.1.b

an information return or overseas return notification has been submitted for
that period,

the assessment in the self-assessment return supersedes the assessment in the
determination.

26.2

Sub-paragraph (1)  does not apply to a self-assessment return delivered after
the later of—

26.2.a

the day 3 years after the day on which the power to make the determination
first became exercisable, and

26.2.b

the day 12 months after the date of the determination.

26.3

Where—

26.3.a

proceedings have begun for the recovery of any tax assessed in a
determination, and

26.3.b

before the proceedings are concluded the determination is superseded under
sub-paragraph (1) ,

the proceedings may be continued as if they were proceedings for the recovery
of so much of the tax assessed in the self-assessment return as is due and
payable and has not been paid.

26.4

Where—

26.4.a

action is being taken under Part 1 of Schedule 8 to the F(No.2)A 2015
(enforcement of deduction from accounts) for the recovery of an amount (“ the
original amount ”) of tax assessed in a determination, and

26.4.b

before that action is concluded the determination is superseded under  sub-
paragraph (1) ,

that action may be continued as if it were an action for the recovery of so
much of the tax assessed in the return as is due and payable, has not been
paid and does not exceed the original amount.

##### Discovery assessments

27

27.1

If, in respect of an accounting period, an officer of Revenue and Customs
discovers that—

27.1.a

an amount of multinational top-up tax that ought to have been assessed in
respect of a multinational group has not been assessed, or

27.1.b

an assessment to tax is or has become insufficient,

the officer may make an assessment (a “discovery assessment”) in the amount
which ought in the officer's opinion to be charged in order to make good to
the Crown the loss of tax.

27.2

This is subject to the restrictions in  paragraph 28 .

28

28.1

This paragraph  applies where the filing member of the group has submitted a
self-assessment return under paragraph  13  for the accounting period in
respect of which the officer makes a discovery assessment.

28.2

Where  this paragraph  applies, the power to make a discovery assessment—

28.2.a

may only be made in the two cases specified in  sub-paragraphs (3)  and  (4) ,
and

28.2.b

may not be made in the circumstances specified in  sub-paragraph (6) .

28.3

The first case is where the situation mentioned in  paragraph 27 (1)  was
brought about carelessly or deliberately on the part of—

28.3.a

a member of the group of which the person forms part, or

28.3.b

a person acting on behalf of a member of the group.

28.4

The second case is where an officer of Revenue and Customs, at the time the
officer—

28.4.a

ceased to be entitled to give a notice of enquiry into the return submitted in
respect of the group for the accounting period, or

28.4.b

completed an enquiry into the return,

could not have been reasonably expected, on the basis of the information made
available to the officer before that time, to be aware of the situation
mentioned in  paragraph 27 (1) .

28.5

For this purpose information is regarded as made available to the officer of
Revenue and Customs if—

28.5.a

it is contained in a self-assessment return, an information return, an
overseas return notification or a below-threshold notification for the
accounting period in question or either of the two immediately preceding
accounting periods,

28.5.b

it is contained in any documents produced or information provided by the
filing member for the purposes of an enquiry into any such return or
notification, or

28.5.c

it is information the existence of which, and the relevance of which as
regards the situation mentioned in paragraph  27 (1) —

28.5.c.i

could reasonably be expected to be inferred by the officer of Revenue and
Customs from information falling within  paragraph (a)  or  (b) , or

28.5.c.ii

are notified in writing to an officer of Revenue and Customs by the filing
member or another person acting on the filing member's behalf.

28.6

No discovery assessment may be made if—

28.6.a

the situation mentioned in  paragraph 27 (1)  is attributable to a mistake in
the return as to the basis on which the tax liability ought to have been
calculated, and

28.6.b

the return was in fact made on the basis or in accordance with the practice
generally prevailing at the time it was made.

29

29.1

The general rule is that no discovery assessment may be made more than 4 years
after the end of the accounting period to which it relates.

29.2

A discovery assessment in a case involving a loss of tax brought about
carelessly by a member of the group (or a person acting on their behalf) may
be made at any time not more than 6 years after the end of the accounting
period to which it relates.

29.3

A discovery assessment in a case involving a loss of tax brought about
deliberately by a member of the group (or a person acting on their behalf) may
be made at any time not more than 20 years after the end of the accounting
period to which it relates.

29.4

A discovery assessment in a case involving a loss of tax brought about as a
result of a failure of a filing member to register with HMRC under  paragraph
6  may be made at any time not more than 20 years after the end of the
accounting period to which it relates.

30

30.1

The officer of Revenue and Customs must give notice of a discovery assessment
to the filing member.

30.2

The notice must state—

30.2.a

the tax due,

30.2.b

the date on which the notice is issued, and

30.2.c

the time within which any appeal against the assessment must be made.

30.3

After notice of the assessment has been served under  this paragraph , the
assessment may not be altered except as provided for by or under  this
Schedule .

30.4

Where an officer of Revenue and Customs has—

30.4.a

decided to make an assessment to tax, and

30.4.b

taken all other decisions needed for arriving at the amount of the assessment,

the officer may entrust to another officer of Revenue and Customs the
responsibility for completing the assessing procedure, whether by means
involving the use of a computer or otherwise, including responsibility for
serving notice of the assessment.

##### Record-keeping requirements

31

31.1

The filing member of the group must—

31.1.a

keep such records as may be needed to enable it to deliver correct and
complete returns if required, and

31.1.b

preserve those records in accordance with  this paragraph .

31.2

The records must be preserved until the end of the relevant day.

31.3

“ The relevant day ” means—

31.3.a

the later of—

31.3.a.i

the ninth anniversary of the last day of the accounting period to which the
records relate, and

31.3.a.ii

if a self-assessment return relating to that accounting period is submitted
and a notice of enquiry into that return has been given before the anniversary
referred to in sub-paragraph  (i) , the day at the end of the period of six
months beginning with the day the enquiry is completed;

31.3.b

such earlier day as may be specified in a notice published by HMRC (and
different days may be specified for different cases).

31.4

The duty to preserve records may be satisfied—

31.4.a

by preserving them in any form and by any means, or

31.4.b

by preserving the information contained in them in any form and by any means,

subject to any conditions or exceptions specified in a notice published by
HMRC.

##### Payments of multinational top-up tax

###### Timing of payments

32

32.1

Multinational top-up tax due must be paid by the end of the period of 15
months beginning with the day after the end of the accounting period.

32.2

But the longer period in sub-paragraph  (3)  applies if the liability to pay
tax arises in respect of the first accounting period in relation to which a
group is a qualifying multinational group.

32.3

Where this sub-paragraph applies, multinational top-up tax due must be paid by
the end of the period of 18 months beginning with the day after the end of the
accounting period.

32.4

A person’s liability to pay multinational top-up tax may be discharged by
another member of the multinational group to which the liability relates (but
see paragraph  37 ).

###### 

33

33.1

Interest is to accrue on amounts payable under  paragraph 32 , but not paid,
from the day after the latest date on which the amounts were required to be
paid.

33.2

The rate of interest is to be as provided in regulations under section 178 of
FA 1989.

###### 

33A

33A.1

Where a person has paid an amount that has been paid by way of multinational
top-up tax but the amount is not due, the amount incurs interest at the rate
provided for in regulations made under section 178 of FA 1989 from the later
of—

33A.1.a

the day after the latest day (under paragraph 32) by which the amount paid
would have been required to be paid as multinational top-up tax if it were
due, and

33A.1.b

the day on which the amount was paid.

33A.2

See paragraph 51 for provision about making claims for the repayment of an
amount that is not tax that was due (but see also paragraph 52 which, for
example, prevents such a claim being made where an amendment to an assessment
can be, or could have been, made).

###### Group payment notices

34

34.1

An officer of Revenue and Customs may issue a group payment notice if an
amount payable by a member of a multinational group of multinational top-up
tax (including any interest on that amount) is not paid by the end of the
period of three months beginning with the relevant date.

34.2

A group payment notice may be issued to any person who is a member of the
group or who was a member of the group at   any time in the accounting period
to which the amount payable relates   (wherever in the world they are
located), subject to  paragraph 35  where the group contains ring-fenced
entities.

34.2A

The references to a member of a group in sub-paragraph (2) do not include a
member of a group that is—

34.2A.a

a securitisation company (within the meaning given by section 267(4)),

34.2A.b

a covered bond vehicle (within the meaning given by section 272A(5)), or

34.2A.c

an investment entity.

34.3

A group payment notice is a notice requiring the recipient to pay an
outstanding amount of multinational top-up tax payable by a member of the
group by a date specified in the notice.

34.4

The notice may not specify a date earlier than the date 30 days after the
notice is issued.

34.5

A group payment notice must state—

34.5.a

the amount of any tax that remains unpaid,

34.5.b

the date any tax first became payable, and

34.5.c

the member's right of appeal (see paragraph  36 (3) ).

34.6

A group payment notice may not be issued more than 3 years and 6 months after
the relevant date.

34.7

If the amount payable is as assessed in a self-assessment return, the relevant
date is the later of—

34.7.a

the date on which multinational top-up tax must be paid;

34.7.b

in a case where the return is delivered after the submission date, the date on
which the return is delivered;

34.7.c

if notice of enquiry is given, the date on which the enquiry is completed;

34.7.d

if as a result of such an enquiry the return is amended, the date of the
closure notice in relation to that enquiry;

34.7.e

if there is an appeal against the closure notice, the date on which the appeal
is finally determined.

34.8

If the amount payable is as assessed in a discovery assessment, the relevant
date is—

34.8.a

if there is no appeal against the assessment, the date on which the notice of
assessment is issued, or

34.8.b

if there is such an appeal, the date on which the appeal is finally
determined.

34.9

If the amount payable is as assessed in a determination that has not been
superseded, the relevant date is the date on which notice of the determination
was issued.

###### 

35

35.1

Where the multinational group contains ring-fenced entities, a group payment
notice may not be issued to a ring-fenced entity in respect of a liability
relating to a responsible member of the group which is not a  member of a
ring-fenced body sub-group that the entity is a member of .

35.2

A ring-fenced entity is a body corporate which is—

35.2.a

a ring-fenced body, or

35.2.b

a member of a ring-fenced body sub-group.

35.3

“ Ring-fenced body ” has the same meaning as in section 142A of the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2000.

35.4

A “ring-fenced body sub-group” is a group of entities consisting of—

35.4.a

an RFB parent undertaking and its subsidiaries, or

35.4.b

a ring-fenced body, which is not a subsidiary of an RFB parent undertaking,
and the ring-fenced body’s subsidiaries.

35.5

“ RFB parent undertaking ” means a body corporate which is subject to rules
made under section 192JA of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (rules
applying to parent undertakings of ring-fenced bodies).

###### 

36

36.1

The effect of a group payment notice being issued under  paragraph 34  is that
the recipient is treated as if—

36.1.a

a liability of a member other than the recipient were a liability of the
recipient (“the deemed liability”),

36.1.b

the deemed liability became due and payable when the relevant liability became
due and payable, and

36.1.c

any payments made in respect of the relevant liability were made in respect of
the deemed liability.

36.2

Nothing in  this paragraph  gives the recipient a right to appeal against any
assessment, determination or other decision giving rise to a liability of a
member other than the recipient (or against the deemed liability).

36.3

The recipient may appeal against the notice, within the period of 30 days
beginning with the date on which it is given, on the ground that the
recipient is not a person to whom the notice can be given (see paragraphs
34(2) and (2A) and 35(1)).

36.4

Where an appeal is made, anything required by the notice to be paid is due and
payable as if there had been no appeal.

###### Effect of group payment for tax purposes

37

37.1

This paragraph applies where a member of a multinational group (the “payer”)
makes a payment in respect of the liability to pay multinational top-up tax of
another member of the same group (the “payee”) (whether or not in consequence
of a group payment notice).

37.2

The payer may recover the amount from the payee.

37.3

In calculating the payer's income, profits or losses for tax purposes—

37.3.a

the payment is not allowed as a deduction, and

37.3.b

the reimbursement of any such payment is not to be regarded as a receipt.

37.4

The payment—

37.4.a

is not to be taken into account in calculating the profits or losses of either
the payer or payee for corporation tax or income tax purposes of either the
payer or the payee, and

37.4.b

is not to be regarded as a distribution for   income tax or  corporation tax
purposes.

37.5

The amount paid by the payer is to be taken into account in calculating—

37.5.a

the amount unpaid by the payee for tax purposes, and

37.5.b

the amount due by virtue of a group payment notice relating to the amount
unpaid.

37.6

Similarly, any payment by the   payee   of any of the amount unpaid is to be
taken into account in calculating the amount due by virtue of a group payment
notice (or by virtue of any other group payment notice relating to the amount
unpaid).

37.7

In this paragraph, “ for tax purposes ” means for the purposes of income tax,
corporation tax, multinational top-up tax or domestic top-up tax.

###### Partnership payment notices

37A

37A.1

An officer of Revenue and Customs may issue a partnership payment notice if an
amount of multinational top-up tax payable by a member of a multinational
group that is a partnership (including any interest on that amount) is not
paid by the end of the period of three months beginning with the relevant date
(see paragraph 34(7) to (9)).

37A.2

A partnership payment notice may be issued to any person (wherever in the
world they are located) who—

37A.2.a

is a partner, or

37A.2.b

was a partner at any time in the accounting period to which the amount payable
relates.

37A.3

A partnership payment notice is a notice requiring the recipient to pay an
outstanding amount of multinational top-up tax payable by a member of the
group that is a partnership by a date specified in the notice.

37A.4

Sub-paragraphs (4) to (9) of paragraph 34 and paragraph 36 apply to a
partnership payment notice as they apply to a group payment notice.

37A.5

In this paragraph and in  paragraph 37B , reference to a partner, in the case
of a limited partnership, is to a general partner.

###### Recovery of partnership payment and effect for tax purposes etc

37B

37B.1

This paragraph applies where a partner of a member of a multinational group
that is a partnership (the “payer”) makes a payment in respect of the
liability to pay multinational top-up tax of the partnership (whether or not
in consequence of a partnership payment notice).

37B.2

The payer may recover the amount from the other partners.

37B.3

In calculating the payer's income, profits or losses for tax purposes—

37B.3.a

the payment is not allowed as a deduction, and

37B.3.b

the reimbursement of any such payment is not to be regarded as a receipt.

37B.4

The payment or its reimbursement—

37B.4.a

is not (otherwise) to be taken into account in calculating the profits or
losses of for corporation tax or income tax purposes of either the payer or
the other partners, and

37B.4.b

is not to be regarded as a distribution for income tax or corporation tax
purposes.

37B.5

The amount paid by the payer is to be taken into account in calculating—

37B.5.a

the amount of multinational top-up tax unpaid by the partnership, and

37B.5.b

the amount due by virtue of a partnership payment notice relating to the
amount unpaid.

37B.6

Similarly, any payment by the partnership or by any of the other partners of
any of the amount unpaid is to be taken into account in calculating the amount
due by virtue of a partnership payment notice (or by virtue of any other
partnership payment notice relating to the amount unpaid).

37B.7

In this paragraph, “ for tax purposes ” means for the purposes of income tax,
corporation tax, multinational top-up tax or domestic top-up tax.

###### Recovery

38

38.1

Any amount due by way of multinational top-up tax liability is recoverable as
a debt due to the Crown.

38.2

“ Multinational top-up tax liability ”, in relation to a multinational group
for an accounting period, means—

38.2.a

a liability of any person who was a member of the group in the period to
multinational top-up tax in respect of the period;

38.2.b

a liability of a person to a penalty referred to in paragraph  40  for
anything done (or not done) in respect of the period.

###### Power to make regulations

39

39.1

The Treasury may by regulations make further provision about the payment of
multinational top-up tax in circumstances where—

39.1.a

a member of a group makes a payment on behalf of another member of the group,
...

39.1.aa

a partner of a partnership makes a payment on behalf of the partnership or
another partner, or

39.1.b

a member of a group is also liable to pay domestic top-up tax.

39.2

The regulations may in particular make provision for—

39.2.a

deeming a payment made by one member of a group to have been made by another;

39.2.aa

deeming a payment made by a partner of a partnership to have been made by the
partnership or another partner;

39.2.b

deeming a payment made in respect of multinational top-up tax to have been
made in respect of domestic top-up tax.

##### Penalties

###### Penalties payable in connection with 

40

This Part  of  this Schedule  sets out penalties payable in connection with
this Schedule , as follows—

40.a

paragraph  41  amends Schedule 41 to FA 2008 to impose a penalty on a filing
member of a multinational group that fails to register with or otherwise
notify HMRC under  Part 3  of  this Schedule ;

40.b

paragraph 42  imposes a penalty on a filing member of a registered group that
fails to submit an information return or overseas return notification under
Part 4  of  this Schedule ;

40.c

paragraph 43  imposes a penalty on a filing member of a registered group that
fails to submit a self-assessment return or below-threshold notification under
Part 5  of  this Schedule ;

40.d

paragraph  45  amends Schedule 24 to FA 2007 to impose a penalty on a filing
member of a multinational group that provides inaccurate information to HMRC;

40.e

paragraph 46  imposes a penalty on a filing member of a multinational group
that fails to keep or preserve records under  Part 9  of  this Schedule .

###### 

41

In paragraph 1 of Schedule 41 to FA 2008 (penalties for failure to notify
etc), in the table after the entry relating to digital services tax insert—

Multinational top-up tax Obligation of a filing member of a multinational
group under Part  3  of  Schedule 14  to FA 2023.

.

###### 

42

42.1

A penalty is payable if the filing member fails to submit an information
return or overseas return notification by the submission date, unless
paragraph 44  (reasonable excuse) applies.

42.2

The penalty is—

42.2.a

£100, if the return or notification is submitted within three months after the
submission date;

42.2.b

£200, if the return or notification is submitted within six months after the
submission date;

42.2.c

£200 plus the additional penalty amount, in any other case.

42.3

For a third successive failure, the amount referred to in—

42.3.a

sub-paragraph (2) (a)  is increased to £500;

42.3.b

sub-paragraph (2) (b)  and  (c)  is increased to £1,000.

42.4

For this purpose, a “third successive failure” occurs where—

42.4.a

the duty to submit a return or notification applies in relation to a group for
three successive accounting periods,

42.4.b

the member was liable to a penalty under  this paragraph  in respect of each
of the first two accounting periods, and

42.4.c

the member is liable to a penalty under  this paragraph  in respect of the
third accounting period.

42.5

The additional penalty amount is £60 multiplied by the number of days, after
the day six months after the submission date, on which the filing member fails
to submit the return or notification.

42.6

The submission date is the last date the filing member is permitted to submit
the return or notification under  Part 4  of this Schedule.

###### 

43

43.1

A penalty is payable if the filing member fails to submit a self-assessment
return or below-threshold notification by the submission date, unless
paragraph 44  (reasonable excuse) applies.

43.2

The penalty is—

43.2.a

£100, if the return or notification is submitted within three months after the
submission date;

43.2.b

£200, if the return or notification is submitted within six months after the
submission date;

43.2.c

the higher of £200 and 10% of the unpaid tax, if the return or notification is
submitted within twelve months after the submission date;

43.2.d

the higher of £200 and 20% of the unpaid tax, in any other case.

43.3

For a third successive failure, the amount referred to in—

43.3.a

sub-paragraph (2) (a)  is increased to £500;

43.3.b

sub-paragraph (2) (b) ,  (c)  and  (d)  is increased to £1,000.

43.4

For this purpose, a “third successive failure” occurs where—

43.4.a

the duty to submit a return or notification applies in relation to a group for
three successive accounting periods,

43.4.b

the member was liable to a penalty under  this paragraph  in respect of each
of the first two accounting periods, and

43.4.c

the member is liable to penalty under  this paragraph  in respect of the third
accounting period.

43.5

The “ unpaid tax ” means the total amount of tax payable by members of the
group for the accounting period which remains unpaid on the date when the
liability to the penalty under  this paragraph  arises.

43.6

The submission date is the last date the filing member is permitted to submit
the return or notification under  Part 5  of this Schedule.

###### 

44

44.1

This paragraph  applies if the filing member satisfies HMRC or (on appeal) the
tribunal that there is a reasonable excuse for the failure to submit the
return or notification (as the case may be).

44.2

For that purpose—

44.2.a

an insufficiency of funds is not a reasonable excuse,

44.2.b

where the member relies on any other person to do anything, that is not a
reasonable excuse unless the member took reasonable care to avoid the failure,
and

44.2.c

where the member had a reasonable excuse for the failure but the excuse has
ceased, the member is to be treated as having continued to have the excuse
only if the failure is remedied without unreasonable delay after the excuse
ceased.

###### 

45

In paragraph 1 of Schedule 24 to FA 2007 (penalties for errors etc), in the
table after the entry relating to digital services tax returns insert—

Multinational top-up tax Overseas return notification and information provided
with it Multinational top-up tax Self-assessment return and information
provided with it Multinational top-up tax Below-threshold notification and
information provided with it

.

###### 

46

46.1

A penalty is payable if—

46.1.a

the member breaches their obligations under  Part 9  of this Schedule in
relation to an accounting period, and

46.1.b

HMRC is not satisfied that any facts which HMRC reasonably requires to be
proved, and which would have been proved by the records, are proved by other
documentary evidence provided to HMRC.

46.2

The penalty is £3,000.

###### Penalties under paragraphs 

47

Paragraphs  48  and  49  apply in relation to a penalty payable under
paragraph 42 ,  43  or  46 .

###### 

48

48.1

HMRC must—

48.1.a

assess the penalty, and

48.1.b

notify the member of the assessment.

48.2

The assessment of a penalty—

48.2.a

is to be treated for procedural purposes in the same way as an assessment to
tax (except in respect of a matter expressly provided for by  this Schedule ),

48.2.b

may be enforced as if it were an assessment to tax (save that interest is not
to accrue on a penalty under paragraph  33 ), and

48.2.c

may be combined with an assessment to tax.

48.3

A supplementary assessment may be made in respect of a penalty if an earlier
assessment is based on an amount of tax due and payable that is found by HMRC
to be an underestimate or insufficient.

48.4

Sub-paragraph (5)  applies if—

48.4.a

an assessment in respect of a penalty is based on a liability to tax shown in
a self-assessment return, and

48.4.b

that liability is found by HMRC to be excessive.

48.5

HMRC may by notice amend the assessment so it is based on the correct amount.

48.6

An amendment under  sub-paragraph (5) —

48.6.a

does not affect when the penalty must be paid;

48.6.b

may be made after the last day on which the assessment in question could have
been made (under sub-paragraph  (7) ).

48.7

An assessment of a penalty must be made before the end of the period of 12
months beginning with—

48.7.a

the end of the appeal period for the assessment of the liability to tax shown
in the self-assessment return, or

48.7.b

if there is no such assessment, the date on which that liability is
ascertained or it is ascertained that the liability is nil.

48.8

In  sub-paragraph (7)  “ appeal period ” means the period during which—

48.8.a

an appeal could be brought, or

48.8.b

an appeal that has been brought has not been determined or withdrawn.

48.9

A penalty must be paid before the end of the period of 30 days beginning with
the day on which notification of the penalty is issued.

###### 

49

49.1

If HMRC thinks it right because of special circumstances, HMRC may reduce the
penalty.

49.2

In  sub-paragraph (1)  “ special circumstances ” does not include—

49.2.a

ability to pay, or

49.2.b

the fact that a potential loss of revenue from one taxpayer is balanced by a
potential over-payment by another.

49.3

In  sub-paragraph (1)  the reference to reducing a penalty includes a
reference to—

49.3.a

staying a penalty, and

49.3.b

agreeing a compromise in relation to proceedings in respect of a penalty.

###### Multiple penalties in respect of same accounting period

50

50.1

This paragraph applies where a person incurs more than one penalty in respect
of multinational top-up tax in the same accounting period.

50.2

The amount of each penalty after the first is to be reduced so that the total
amount of all such penalties in the period does not exceed the greatest amount
incurred for any such penalty.

##### Appeals and claims

###### Claims in relation to overpaid tax

51

51.1

A person (a “claimant”) who has paid an amount by way of multinational top-up
tax may make a claim to the Commissioners for repayment of tax that was not
due.

51.2

The claim must—

51.2.a

be made on or before the overpayment claim date,

51.2.b

be in the form and contain information specified in a notice published by
HMRC, and

51.2.c

not be submitted at the same time as a self-assessment return.

51.3

The overpayment claim date is the date four years after the end of the
accounting period in respect of which the amount was paid.

51.4

The Commissioners must give effect to a claim as made, unless—

51.4.a

a condition in  sub-paragraph (2)  is not met in relation to the claim,

51.4.b

paragraph 52  applies, or

51.4.c

the claim is amended following an enquiry under  paragraph 53 .

51.5

The Commissioners are not  ...  liable to repay any amount paid by way of
multinational top-up tax by reason of the fact it was not tax due  otherwise
than—

51.5.a

pursuant to a claim under this paragraph, or

51.5.b

in accordance with another provision of this Schedule.

51.6

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

51.7

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

51.8

Paragraph  54  makes further provision in relation to amounts repaid.

###### 

52

52.1

This paragraph  applies where one or more of Cases A to D apply.

52.2

Case A applies where a member of the claimant’s group has an unpaid liability
to tax.

52.3

Case B applies where the claimant is seeking or will be able to seek relief by
taking other steps under  this Part  of this Act.

52.4

Case C applies where the claimant—

52.4.a

could have sought relief by taking such steps within a period that has now
expired, and

52.4.b

knew, or ought reasonably to have known, before the end of that period that
such relief was available.

52.5

Case D applies where—

52.5.a

the amount paid is excessive by reason of a mistake in calculating the amount
of tax payable by members of the claimant’s group for the accounting period,
and

52.5.b

the amount was calculated in accordance with the practice generally prevailing
at the time.

52.6

Where  this paragraph  applies, the Commissioners are not liable to repay any
amount paid by way of multinational top-up tax by reason of the fact it was
not tax due.

###### 

53

53.1

An officer of Revenue and Customs may enquire into a claim if, within the time
allowed, the officer gives notice to the claimant of the officer's intention
to do so.

53.2

The time allowed is the period ending with the quarter day next following the
first anniversary of the day on which the claim was made.

53.3

The quarter days are 31 January, 30 April, 31 July and 31 October.

53.4

A claim enquired into under  sub-paragraph (1)  may not be the subject of a
further notice under that sub-paragraph.

53.5

An enquiry is completed when the officer by notice (a “closure notice”)
informs the claimant that the enquiry is complete and states the conclusion
reached in the enquiry.

53.6

The conclusion must be one of the following—

53.6.a

that no amendment of the claim is required, or

53.6.b

that the amendments of the claim specified in the notice are to be made.

53.7

A closure notice takes effect when it is issued.

53.8

The officer must give effect to any amendments made by the closure notice by
making such adjustments as may be necessary whether—

53.8.a

by way of assessment, or

53.8.b

by discharge or repayment of tax.

53.9

The adjustments must be made within 30 days of the date of issue of the
closure notice.

53.10

Paragraph 23  (direction to complete enquiry) applies in relation to an
enquiry under  this paragraph  as it applies in relation to an enquiry under
paragraph 16 .

###### 

54

54.1

This paragraph  applies where—

54.1.a

an amount has been paid by way of a repayment of tax, and

54.1.b

the amount paid exceeded the amount which the Commissioners were or could be
liable at that time to repay.

54.2

The Commissioners may—

54.2.a

to the best of their judgment, assess the amount of the excess, and

54.2.b

notify the amount to the person to whom the repayment was made.

54.3

Sub-paragraph (4)  applies where—

54.3.a

an assessment has been notified under  sub-paragraph (2) , and

54.3.b

it appears to the Commissioners that the amount which ought to have been
assessed as due exceeds the amount that has already been assessed.

54.4

The Commissioners may—

54.4.a

on or before the last day on which the assessment could have been made, make a
supplementary assessment of the amount of tax due, and

54.4.b

notify the amount to the person to whom the repayment was made.

54.5

An amount assessed and notified under  sub-paragraph (2)  or  (4)  counts as a
liability to multinational top-up tax for the purposes of  this Part  of this
Act.

54.6

But  sub-paragraph (5)  does not have effect if, or to the extent that, the
assessment has been withdrawn or reduced.

54.7

An assessment under  this paragraph  may not be made more than 4 years after
the end of the accounting period in which evidence of facts sufficient in the
opinion of the Commissioners to justify making the assessment comes to their
knowledge.

###### Appeals of decisions: general

55

55.1

An appeal may be brought against—

55.1.a

an amendment of a self-assessment return under  paragraph 19  (amendment
during enquiry to prevent loss of tax);

55.1.b

an amendment made by a closure notice under  paragraph 22 ;

55.1.c

a discovery assessment;

55.1.d

an assessment of a penalty under  paragraph 42 ,  43  or  46 ;

55.1.e

an amendment made by a closure notice under  paragraph 53 ;

55.1.f

an assessment made under paragraph  54 .

55.2

Any such appeal is to be brought by the filing member (“ the appellant ”).

55.3

Notice of the appeal must be given to HMRC—

55.3.a

in writing, and

55.3.b

within 30 days after the specified date.

55.4

“ Specified date ” means—

55.4.a

in relation to an appeal under  sub-paragraph (1) (a) , the date on which the
notice of amendment was issued;

55.4.b

in relation to an appeal under  sub-paragraph (1) (b)  or  (e) , the date on
which the closure notice was issued;

55.4.c

in relation to an appeal under  sub-paragraph (1) (c) ,  (d)  or  (f) , the
date on which the notice of assessment was issued.

55.5

The notice of appeal must specify the grounds of appeal.

55.6

Notice may be given after the time limit in  sub-paragraph (3) (b)  if—

55.6.a

HMRC agrees, or

55.6.b

where HMRC does not agree, the tribunal gives permission.

55.7

HMRC must agree to notice being given after the time limit if the appellant
has requested in writing that HMRC do so and HMRC is satisfied—

55.7.a

that there was a reasonable excuse for not giving the notice before the time
limit, and

55.7.b

that the request has been made without unreasonable delay.

55.8

If a request of the kind mentioned in  sub-paragraph (7)  is made, HMRC must
notify the appellant of whether or not HMRC agrees to the request.

###### 

56

56.1

The effect of a notice of appeal being given is that—

56.1.a

a review may be conducted by HMRC into the matter to which the appeal relates;

56.1.b

HMRC and the appellant may settle the appeal by agreement;

56.1.c

the appeal may be determined by the tribunal;

56.1.d

a payment of multinational top-up tax may be postponed pending determination
of the appeal.

56.2

But if—

56.2.a

the appeal is an appeal under paragraph  55 (1) (a)  against an amendment of a
self-assessment, and

56.2.b

the appeal is made while an enquiry into the return is in progress,

sub-paragraphs  (1) (a)  and  (c)  do not apply in relation to the appeal
until the enquiry is completed.

56.3

See also paragraph  67  for special provision relating to the appeal of a
penalty under  paragraph 42 ,  43  or  46 .

###### Reviews by HMRC

57

57.1

A review is to be conducted by HMRC if—

57.1.a

the appellant notifies HMRC that it requires HMRC to review the matter, or

57.1.b

HMRC offers to review the matter and the appellant accepts the offer within
the period of 30 days beginning with the date of the offer (the “acceptance
period”).

57.2

The appellant may not notify HMRC that the appellant requires HMRC to review
the matter if—

57.2.a

the appellant has already done so in relation to the same matter,

57.2.b

HMRC has offered to review the matter, or

57.2.c

the appellant has notified the appeal to the tribunal.

57.3

HMRC may not offer to review the matter if—

57.3.a

HMRC has already done so in relation to the same matter,

57.3.b

the appellant has notified HMRC that the appellant requires HMRC to review the
matter, or

57.3.c

the appellant has notified the appeal to the tribunal.

57.4

An offer by HMRC to review the matter must—

57.4.a

be made in writing, and

57.4.b

contain a statement of HMRC’s view of the matter.

57.5

If the appellant does not accept the offer within the acceptance period—

57.5.a

HMRC's view of the matter is to be treated as if it were contained in a
settlement agreement under paragraph  61 , but

57.5.b

the right to withdraw from such an agreement does not apply in relation to
that notional agreement.

57.6

Sub-paragraph (5)  does not apply to the matter if, or to the extent that, the
appellant notifies the appeal to the tribunal.

57.7

The appellant may notify the appeal to the tribunal—

57.7.a

within the acceptance period;

57.7.b

after the end of that period only if the tribunal gives permission.

###### 

58

58.1

The review is to be conducted as follows.

58.2

If the appellant required the review, HMRC must notify the appellant of HMRC’s
view of the matter within—

58.2.a

the period of 30 days beginning with the day on which HMRC received
notification of the requirement to review from the appellant, or

58.2.b

such longer period as is reasonable.

58.3

The nature and extent of the review are to be such as appear appropriate to
HMRC in the circumstances.

58.4

For the purpose of  sub-paragraph (3) , HMRC must, in particular, have regard
to steps taken before the beginning of the review—

58.4.a

by HMRC in deciding the matter, and

58.4.b

by any person in seeking to resolve disagreement about the matter.

58.5

The review must take account of any representations made by the appellant at a
stage which gives HMRC a reasonable opportunity to consider them.

###### 

59

59.1

The review may conclude that HMRC's view of the matter (as notified to the
appellant under paragraph  57 (4)  or  58 (2) ) is to be—

59.1.a

upheld,

59.1.b

varied, or

59.1.c

cancelled.

59.2

HMRC must notify the appellant of the conclusions of the review and the
reasoning for those conclusions within—

59.2.a

the period of 45 days beginning with the relevant day, or

59.2.b

such other period as may be agreed.

59.3

In  sub-paragraph (2)  “ relevant day ” means—

59.3.a

in a case where the appellant required the review, the day when HMRC notified
the appellant of HMRC's view of the matter;

59.3.b

in a case where HMRC offered the review, the day when HMRC received
notification of the appellant's acceptance of the offer.

59.4

If HMRC do not give notice of the conclusions of the review within the period
specified in  sub-paragraph (3) , the review is treated as having concluded
that HMRC's view of the matter in question is upheld.

59.5

If  sub-paragraph (4)  applies, HMRC must notify the appellant of the
conclusions which the review is treated as having reached.

59.6

The conclusions of a review are to be treated as if they were contained in a
settlement agreement under paragraph  61 , but the right to withdraw from such
an agreement does not apply in relation to that notional agreement.

59.7

Sub-paragraph (6)  does not apply to the matter if, or to the extent that, the
appellant notifies the appeal to the tribunal.

59.8

The appellant may notify the appeal to the tribunal—

59.8.a

within the post-review period;

59.8.b

after the end of that period only if the tribunal gives permission.

59.9

The post-review period is—

59.9.a

if HMRC has notified the appellant of the conclusions of the review in
accordance with  sub-paragraph (2) , the period of 30 days beginning with that
notice;

59.9.b

if HMRC has not so notified the appellant, the period beginning with the day
following the last day of the period specified in  sub-paragraph (2)  and
ending 30 days after the date on which HMRC gives notice in accordance with
sub-paragraph (5) .

###### 

60

60.1

In  paragraphs 57  to  59 , a reference to the appellant includes a person
acting on behalf of the appellant except in relation to—

60.1.a

notification by HMRC of an offer of review (and of their view of the matter)
under  paragraph 57 ;

60.1.b

notification of HMRC's view under  paragraph 58 (2) (a) ;

60.1.c

notification of the conclusions of a review under  paragraph 59 (2)  or  (5) .

60.2

But if any such notification is given to the appellant, a copy of the
notification may also be given to a person acting on behalf of the appellant.

60.3

A notification in connection with a review must be given in writing.

###### Settlement agreements

61

61.1

“ Settlement agreement ” means an agreement in writing between the appellant
and an officer of Revenue and Customs that is—

61.1.a

entered into before the appeal is determined, and

61.1.b

to the effect that the decision appealed against should be upheld without
variation, varied in a particular manner or discharged or cancelled.

61.2

Where a settlement agreement is entered into in relation to an appeal, the
consequences are to be the same (for all purposes) as if, at the time the
agreement was entered into, the tribunal had decided the appeal and had upheld
the decision without variation, varied it in that manner or discharged or
cancelled it, as the case may be.

61.3

Sub-paragraph (2)  does not apply if, within 30 days beginning with the date
on which the settlement agreement was entered into, the appellant gives notice
in writing to HMRC that it wishes to withdraw from the agreement.

61.4

Sub-paragraph (5)  applies where notice of an appeal has been given and—

61.4.a

the appellant notifies HMRC, orally or in writing, that the appellant does not
wish to proceed with the appeal, and

61.4.b

HMRC does not, within 30 days after that notification, give the appellant
notice in writing indicating that HMRC is unwilling that the appeal should be
withdrawn.

61.5

Sub-paragraphs (1)  to  (3)  have effect as if, at the date of the appellant's
notification, the appellant and an officer of Revenue and Customs had agreed
that the decision under appeal should be upheld without variation.

###### Determination by tribunal

62

62.1

The appellant may notify the appeal to the tribunal.

62.2

If the tribunal decides that a person is overcharged to multinational top-up
tax, the assessment must be reduced accordingly.

62.3

If the tribunal decides that a person is undercharged to multinational top-up
tax, the assessment must be increased accordingly.

62.4

In a case where neither  sub-paragraph (2)  or  (3)  apply, the assessment is
to stand good.

62.5

On the determination of the appeal—

62.5.a

any tax overpaid must be repaid as if a claim had been made under  paragraph
51  on the day notice of the appeal was given to HMRC;

62.5.b

any tax payable in accordance with the determination is payable in accordance
with  paragraph 32 .

62.6

Interest is to be incurred on amounts payable in accordance with those
paragraphs.

62.7

Where a party to an appeal to the tribunal makes a further appeal, tax is to
be payable or repayable in accordance with the determination of the tribunal
or court (as the case may be), even though the further appeal is pending.

62.8

But if the amount charged by the assessment is altered by the order or
judgment of the Upper Tribunal or court, then—

62.8.a

if too much tax has been paid, the amount overpaid must be refunded, with any
interest allowed by the order or judgment, and

62.8.b

if too little tax has been charged, the tax is payable in accordance with
paragraph 32 .

62.9

The determination of the tribunal is final and conclusive except as otherwise
provided in  sections 10 to 16  of the Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act
2007.

###### Postponement of payment pending appeal

63

63.1

The general rule is that an appeal under  this Part  of  this Schedule  does
not postpone any liability to pay multinational top-up tax.

63.2

Accordingly, the periods within which tax is payable under  paragraph 32
continue to apply notwithstanding an appeal.

63.3

But a liability may be postponed if—

63.3.a

a determination is made by HMRC to that effect;

63.3.b

a direction is made by a tribunal to that effect;

63.3.c

HMRC and the appellant agree to a postponement.

63.4

The effect of a liability being postponed is that the period within which the
tax is payable is extended by the period of the postponement.

63.5

The period of the postponement—

63.5.a

may not begin after the date the appeal is determined;

63.5.b

is to end on the date the appeal is determined.

###### 

64

64.1

The appellant may apply to HMRC for a determination if the appellant has
grounds to believe that—

64.1.a

a person has been overcharged to multinational top-up tax;

64.1.b

an amount of tax postponed under a previous determination is excessive or
insufficient.

64.2

An application must be made within 30 days after the specified date (see
paragraph 55 (4) ), unless  sub-paragraph (3)  applies.

64.3

This sub-paragraph applies if—

64.3.a

there is a change in the circumstances of the case as a result of which the
appellant has grounds to believe the matter in  sub-paragraph (1) , or

64.3.b

the application could, if it were a notice of appeal, be given at a later date
under  paragraph 55 (6) .

64.4

The application must state the amount believed to be overcharged and the
grounds for that belief.

64.5

HMRC may determine—

64.5.a

whether any amount of tax is to be postponed, and

64.5.b

the amount of any tax postponed.

64.6

The amount of any tax postponed is to be determined as the amount (if any) by
which it appears that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the
person is overcharged.

###### 

65

65.1

The appellant may apply to the tribunal for a direction if—

65.1.a

the appellant has applied to HMRC for a determination,

65.1.b

HMRC has made a determination, and

65.1.c

the appellant does not agree with the determination.

65.2

The tribunal may direct whether the determination of HMRC was correct.

65.3

A decision of the tribunal under  this paragraph  is final and conclusive
(despite the provisions of sections 12 and 15 of the Tribunals, Courts and
Enforcement Act 2007).

###### 

66

66.1

HMRC and the appellant may agree that payment of an amount of tax should be
postponed pending the determination of the appeal.

66.2

The agreement may modify a determination by HMRC under  paragraph 64 .

66.3

Where the agreement does so, it is to be treated in the same way as a
settlement agreement under  paragraph 61 .

66.4

The consequences of an agreement are to be the same as if the tribunal had, at
the time when the agreement was entered into, made a direction to the same
effect as the agreement.

66.5

The existence of an agreement does not preclude a further determination by
HMRC or direction by the tribunal modifying the agreement.

66.6

An agreement—

66.6.a

must be made in writing;

66.6.b

may be made with a person acting on behalf of the appellant in relation to the
appeal.

###### Special provisions as to penalties

67

67.1

This paragraph  applies to an appeal as to—

67.1.a

whether a penalty under  paragraph 42 ,  43  or  46  is payable;

67.1.b

the amount of such a penalty.

67.2

Payment of the penalty is always postponed pending determination of the
appeal.

67.3

Accordingly—

67.3.a

paragraphs 63 (1)  to  (3)  and  64  to  66  do not apply to such an appeal;

67.3.b

paragraphs  63 (4)  and  (5)  always apply to such an appeal.

67.4

If the appeal is notified to the tribunal, the tribunal may—

67.4.a

confirm a decision of HMRC;

67.4.b

substitute for the decision another decision that HMRC had power to make.

67.5

The tribunal may only make a decision that HMRC had power to make under
paragraph 49  (reduction of penalties) if the tribunal considers HMRC’s
decision to have been flawed when considered in light of the principles
applicable in proceedings for judicial review.

67.6

On determination of the appeal, where a penalty is payable it is to be paid
before the end of 30 days beginning with the day on which the determination
was issued.

##### Other amendments

68

68.1

In section 1(1) of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 (temporary
statutory effect of House of Commons resolutions affecting income tax etc)
after “digital services tax,” insert  “multinational top-up tax,” .

68.2

In section 178(2) of FA 1989 (setting of interest rates), at the end insert—

68.2.x

paragraphs  33  and  51  of  Schedule 14  to the Finance Act 2023.

.

68.3

In paragraph 63(1) of Schedule 36 to FA 2008 (information and inspection
powers), after paragraph (cc) insert—

68.3.cd

multinational top-up tax;

.

68.4

In section 206(3) of FA 2013, at the end insert—

68.4.h

multinational top-up tax.

.

                 Multinational top-up tax: elections

Section 127(9)

##### Long term elections

1

1.1

This paragraph  applies to an election under the following provisions of Part
3—

1.1.a

section 127 (8) ;

1.1.aa

section 141(7);

1.1.b

section 161 ;

1.1.c

section 162 ;

1.1.d

section 164 ;

1.1.e

section 165 ;

1.1.f

section 166 ;

1.1.g

section 187 ;

1.1.h

section 213 ;

1.1.i

section 214 .

1.2

An election to which  this paragraph  applies—

1.2.a

must specify the first accounting period for which it is to have effect (“the
first election period”),

1.2.b

must be made no later than the date by which the information return or
overseas return notification in respect of that period is due,

1.2.c

must be included in an information return submitted to HMRC or a qualifying
authority in respect of that period, and

1.2.d

has effect for the first election period and each subsequent accounting period
until the commencement of the first accounting period for which a revocation
of the election has effect.

1.3

A revocation of an election to which  this paragraph  applies is to be made by
the filing member of a multinational group and—

1.3.a

must specify the first accounting period for which it is to have effect,

1.3.b

must be made no later than the date by which the information return or
overseas return notification in respect of that period is due, and

1.3.c

must be included in an information return submitted to HMRC or a qualifying
authority in respect of that period.

1.4

But a revocation of an election to which  this paragraph  applies may not be
made that has effect for the first election period or any of the next 4
accounting periods.

1.5

Where an election to which  this paragraph  applies has been revoked, no
further election of the same type may be made that has effect for the first
accounting period for which the revocation has effect or any of the next 4
accounting periods.

##### Annual elections

2

2.1

This paragraph  applies to an election under the following provisions of Part
3—

2.1.za

section 176D(3)(b);

2.1.a

section 186 ;

2.1.b

section 163 ;

2.1.c

section 182 (8) ;

2.1.d

section 189 ;

2.1.e

section 195 (2) ;

2.1.ea

section 199;

2.1.f

section 205 ;

2.1.fa

section 216;

2.1.g

section 217 (8) ;

2.1.h

section 221 (4) ;

2.1.i

paragraph 2 (9)  of  Schedule 16 ;

2.1.j

paragraph 3  of  Schedule 16 ;

2.1.k

paragraph 14 of Schedule 16;

2.1.l

paragraph 1 of Schedule 16A.

2.2

An election to which  this paragraph  applies—

2.2.a

must specify the accounting period for which it is to have effect,

2.2.b

must be made no later than the date by which the information return or
overseas return notification in respect of that period is due, and

2.2.c

must be included in an information return submitted to HMRC or a qualifying
authority in respect of that period.

Multinational top-up tax: transitional provision

Section 260

##### General transitional measures

###### Transitional relief for substance-based income exclusion

1

1.1

Section 195 (4)  (payroll carve-out amount) has effect for an accounting
period that commences in a year listed in following table as if for “5%” there
were substituted the specified percentage for that year—

Year Specified percentage 2023 10% 2024 9.8% 2025 9.6% 2026 9.4% 2027 9.2%
2028 9.0% 2029 8.2% 2030 7.4% 2031 6.6% 2032 5.8%

1.2

Section 195 (5)  (tangible asset carve-out amount) has effect for an
accounting period that commences in a year listed in following table as if for
“5%” there were substituted the specified percentage for that year—

Year Specified percentage 2023 8% 2024 7.8% 2025 7.6% 2026 7.4% 2027 7.2% 2028
7.0% 2029 6.6% 2030 6.2% 2031 5.8% 2032 5.4%

###### Intra-group transfers before entry into regime

2

2.1

Sub-paragraph (3)  applies where—

2.1.a

assets are transferred from one member of a multinational group to another
member of that group,

2.1.b

the Pillar Two rules do not apply to the transferor for the accounting period
in which the transfer takes place (but in determining this, section 255(4) has
effect as if sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (b) were omitted),

2.1.ba

a qualifying domestic top-up tax does not apply in relation to the transferor
for that period, and

2.1.c

the transfer took place on or after 1 December 2021.

2.2

But  sub-paragraph (3)  does not apply in relation to a transfer of assets
manufactured, or of a class or description sold, in the course of carrying on
a trade by the transferor or the transferee.

2.3

Where this sub-paragraph applies, for the purposes of  Part 3  of this Act—

2.3.a

the value of the assets at the relevant time is the carrying value of the
assets in the hands of the transferor immediately before the transfer, and

2.3.b

any deferred tax asset that would arise in relation to the assets in the
underlying profits of the transferee is limited to   the lesser of the cap
amount and the sum of—

2.3.b.i

the value of deferred tax assets that arose in relation to the assets before
their transfer, and

2.3.b.ii

the tax paid amount in relation to the transfer of assets.

2.3A

For the purposes of determining the value of a deferred tax asset under sub-
paragraph (3)(b)(i)—

2.3A.a

if the rate of tax in relation to that asset is greater than 15%, the value is
to be adjusted so that it reflects the value it would be if the rate had been
15%, and

2.3A.b

exclude the impact of any valuation adjustments or accounting recognition
adjustments.

2.4

For the purposes of this paragraph “ the relevant time ” means the later of—

2.4.a

the date of the transfer, and

2.4.b

the commencement of the first accounting period in which  the Pillar Two rules
apply to the transferee.

2.4.b.i

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.4.b.ii

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.5

Where the relevant time is after the date of the transfer—

2.5.a

the value of the assets at the relevant time is to be adjusted to reflect—

2.5.a.i

capitalised expenditure incurred in respect of the assets in the period
between the date of the transfer and the relevant time, and

2.5.a.ii

amortisation and depreciation of the assets that, had the transfer not
occurred, would have been recognised by the transferor if the transferor had
continued to use the accounting policies and rates for amortisation and
depreciation of the assets previously used, and

2.5.b

the tax paid amount in relation to the transfer of the assets   , and the
value of deferred tax assets that arose in relation to the assets before their
transfer, are   to be adjusted to reflect the matters referred to in
paragraph (a) (i)  and  (ii) .

2.6

To determine the “ tax paid amount ” in relation to a transfer of assets take
the following steps—

Step 1 Determine the amount of the tax expense of the transferor in relation
to the transfer of the assets that relates to covered taxes. Step 2 Determine
the amount, if any, of qualifying current tax expense relating to the transfer
of the assets that would have been allocated to the transferor as a result of
section 177  or  179  (permanent establishments and controlled foreign company
regimes) if—   the ultimate parent had been located in the United Kingdom and
the accounting period commenced on or after 31 December 2023, and   section
179 (2)  (restriction of allocation of mobile income) were ignored. Step 3 Add
together the amounts determined under Steps 1 and 2.

2.7

In determining the tax expense of the transferor in relation to the transfer
of the assets—

2.7.a

where any loss arising in the accounting period in which the transfer took
place is offset against any taxable gain arising on the transfer, ignore that
offsetting, and

2.7.b

exclude the impact of any valuation adjustments or accounting recognition
adjustments.

2.8

The “ cap amount ” in relation to a transfer of assets is the amount given by—

2.8.a

dividing—

2.8.a.i

the amount of tax expense determined under Step 1 in  sub-paragraph (6) , by

2.8.a.ii

the nominal rate of tax to which that expense relates, and

2.8.b

multiplying the result of  paragraph (a)  by 15%.

2.9

Where  the sum of   the tax paid amount   and the value of deferred tax assets
that arose in relation to the assets before their transfer is greater than
the cap amount  ..., the filing member may elect that  sub-paragraph (3)  does
not apply in relation to the transfer of assets.

2.10

Paragraph 2  of  Schedule 15  (annual elections) applies to an election under
sub-paragraph (9) .

2.11

For the purposes of  this paragraph ,

2.11.a

“ a transfer of assets ” includes a transaction that relates to assets that
does not result in a change in their ownership if the transaction has   a
similar effect for accounting purposes to   a change in ownership of those
assets;

2.11.b

a qualifying domestic top-up tax is not to be taken as applying to a member of
a multinational group if provision for a QDMTT Safe Harbour (within the
meaning of the Pillar Two rules) applies to it.

2.12

Where assets are transferred from one member of a multinational group to
another member of that group as a result of a series of transfers that—

2.12.a

fall within sub-paragraph (1), but

2.12.b

do not fall within sub-paragraph (2),

that series is to be treated as a single transfer of assets that falls within
sub-paragraph (1).

2.13

This paragraph applies to that single transfer as if—

2.13.a

the reference to the transferor in sub-paragraph (3)(a) were to the transferor
in relation to the first transfer in the series,

2.13.b

the references in sub-paragraph (3)(b) to the cap amount, the value of
deferred tax assets that arose in relation to the assets before their transfer
and the tax paid amount were to the aggregate of each such amount or value as
determined for the purpose of each transfer that makes up the series,

2.13.c

the reference to the date of the transfer in sub-paragraph (4)(a) were to the
date of the last transfer in the series, and

2.13.d

the references to the transferee in sub-paragraph (4)(b) were to the
transferee in relation to the last transfer in the series.

##### Transitional safe harbour

###### Transitional safe harbour election

####### Election

3

3.1

The filing member of a multinational group may make a transitional safe
harbour election for an accounting period in respect of a territory.

3.1A

The effect of the election is that all of the standard members of the group
located in the territory are to be treated as not having top-up amounts or
additional top-up amounts for the purpose of determining the liability of any
member of the group to multinational top-up tax.

3.2

An election may only be made for an accounting period if—

3.2.a

the period commences on or before 31 December 2026 and ends on or before 30
June 2028,

3.2.b

a qualifying country-by-country report has been prepared in relation to the
territory for the period,

3.2.c

the election has been made in respect of the territory for each preceding
accounting period—

3.2.c.i

that commenced on or after 31 December 2023, and

3.2.c.ii

in which the Pillar Two rules   would, ignoring any transitional safe harbour
election, have applied to any member   of the group in the territory,

3.2.d

an election under  section 189  (deemed distribution tax election) has not
been made in respect of the territory for the accounting period, and

3.2.e

at least one of the following tests are met for the territory in accounting
period—

3.2.e.i

the threshold test (see  paragraph 7 ),

3.2.e.ii

the simplified effective tax rate test (see  paragraph 8 ), or

3.2.e.iii

the routine profits test (see  paragraph 9 ).

3.3

An election may not be made in respect of the territory of the ultimate parent
of a multinational group for an accounting period if the ultimate parent is a
flow-through entity unless, were the adjusted profits of the ultimate parent
determined for that period in accordance with  Part 3 —

3.3.a

its adjusted profits would be nil as a result of the application of  section
170  (adjustments for ultimate parent that is a flow-through entity), or

3.3.b

all of the ultimate parent’s adjusted profits would be attributable to one or
more permanent establishments (see  section 159 ) and no amount of income or
expense of any permanent establishment would be treated, as a result of
section 160  (attribution of losses between permanent establishment and main
entity), as income or expense of the ultimate parent.

3.4

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.5

Paragraph 2  of  Schedule 15  (annual elections) applies to an election under
this paragraph .

3.6

The information return in which the election is made must set out which of the
tests referred to in  sub-paragraph (2) (e)  are being relied on and include
evidence of how any that is relied on is met.

3.7

For the purposes of this Part of this Schedule, a country-by-country report in
relation to a territory is “qualifying” if the information relating to the
territory is prepared on the basis of qualified financial statements of the
multinational group (see paragraph 4).

3.8

Where there is no requirement under the law of any territory for a country-by-
country report to be prepared and filed in respect of a multinational group,
the filling member may include, in the information return in which the
election is made, the information that would have been in such a report—

3.8.a

prepared in accordance with legislation implementing the OECD’s guidance on
country-by-country reporting under the law of the territory of the ultimate
parent, or

3.8.b

where there is no such legislation, prepared in accordance with that guidance.

3.9

Where such information has been included in that information return, that
information is to be treated as if it were a country-by-country report in
relation to the territory for the purposes of this Chapter (and where that
information complies with sub-paragraph (7), the condition in sub-paragraph
(2)(b) is to be treated as met).

####### Qualified financial statements and basis of calculations

4

4.1

For the purposes of  this Part  of  this Schedule  “qualified financial
statements” of a multinational group means—

4.1.a

the accounts used to prepare the consolidated financial statement of the
ultimate parent, or

4.1.b

financial statements of members of the group prepared in accordance with
acceptable accounting standards or an authorised accounting standard.

4.2

Where a member of a multinational group is not included in consolidated
financial statements of any member of the group on a line-by-line basis solely
due to size or materiality grounds, the financial accounts of that member that
are used for preparation of the group’s country-by-country report are to be
regarded as forming part of the qualified financial statements of the group.

4.3

For the purposes of establishing whether the tests in  paragraphs 7  to  9
are met in relation to members of a multinational group in a territory, the
basis for that determination is to be the information derived from qualified
financial statements as to—

4.3.a

revenue,

4.3.b

profit (loss) before income tax,  ...

4.3.c

qualifying income tax expense (see  paragraph 5 )  , and

4.3.d

qualified substance based income amount (see paragraph 9(2)).

4.4

Information derived from qualified financial statements as to revenue or
profit (loss) before income tax must be adjusted—

4.4.a

as the information was adjusted for the purposes of its inclusion in a
qualifying country-by-country report in relation to the territory, or

4.4.b

if the information was not included in such a report, as it would have been
adjusted had it been included in such a report.

See also  paragraph 6  which provides for circumstances in which further
adjustments are required to profit (loss) before income tax and circumstances
in which adjustments are required to qualifying income tax expense.

4.5

The information described in  sub-paragraph (3) (a)  to   (d)    that must be
used to determine whether the tests in  paragraphs 7  to  9  are met in
relation to members of a multinational group in a territory must be derived
from whichever of the following was used to prepare the qualifying country-by-
country report in relation to the territory—

4.5.a

qualified financial statements falling within  sub-paragraph (1) (a) , along
with any financial accounts treated as qualified financial statements as a
result of  sub-paragraph (2) , or

4.5.b

qualified financial statements falling within  sub-paragraph (1) (b) , along
with any financial accounts treated as qualified financial statements as a
result of  sub-paragraph (2) .

4.6

Where that information in respect of a territory is not available in qualified
financial statements of a multinational group, no election may be made in
respect of that territory.

####### Qualifying income tax expense

5

In  this Part  of  this Schedule , “ qualifying income tax expense ” means
income tax expense adjusted to exclude—

5.a

any amount that does not relate to covered taxes, and

5.b

any amount that relates to an uncertain tax position.

####### Adjustments

6

6.1

Sub-paragraph (2)  applies where the adjusted profits of the ultimate parent
of a multinational group for an accounting period would be reduced as a result
of  section 171 (1)  (ultimate parent subject to deductible dividend regime).

6.2

Where this sub-paragraph applies the profit (loss) before income tax of the
ultimate parent for that period is to be reduced (but not below nil) by the
amount referred to in  section 171 (1) .

6.3

Sub-paragraph (4)  applies where—

6.3.a

the standard members of a multinational group in a territory have a net
unrealised fair value loss for an accounting period, and

6.3.b

that loss exceeds 50 million euros.

6.4

Where this sub-paragraph applies, those losses are to be excluded from the
aggregate profit (loss) before income tax of those members.

6.5

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (3) , the standard members of a
multinational group in a territory have a net unrealised fair value loss for
an accounting period to the extent their losses that arise from changes in
fair value of relevant ownership interests exceed gains arising from changes
in fair value of relevant ownership interests.

6.6

An ownership interest in an entity is relevant   unless , at the end of the
accounting period, the members of the multinational group do not between them
have ownership interests that entitle them to 10% or more of the entity’s —

6.6.a

profits,

6.6.b

capital,

6.6.c

reserves, and

6.6.d

voting rights.

6.7

Amounts of profits and qualifying tax expense allocated, for the purposes of
Part 3 , to a member of a multinational group from an investment entity as a
result of an election under  section 213  (investment entity tax transparency
election) are to be reflected (to the extent they are not already) in the
member’s profit (loss) before income tax and qualifying tax expense used for
the purposes of applying the tests in  paragraphs 7  to  9 .

6.8

Amounts that are to be included or otherwise taken account of, for the
purposes of  Part 3 , in the adjusted profits and covered tax balance of a
member of a multinational group as a result of an election under  section 214
(taxable distribution method election) are to be reflected (to the extent they
are not already) in the member’s profit (loss) before income tax and
qualifying tax expense used for the purposes of applying the tests in
paragraphs 7  to  9 .

####### Threshold test

7

7.1

The threshold test is met for a territory in an accounting period if—

7.1.a

the revenue of the standard members in that territory for the period is less
than 10 million euros, and

7.1.b

the aggregate profit (loss) before income tax of those members for that period
is less than 1 million euros.

7.2

Where those members include members that are held for sale and the revenue of
those members is not otherwise included in the amount determined for the
purposes of  sub-paragraph (1) (a) , that revenue is to be so included.

####### Simplified effective tax rate test

8

8.1

The simplified effective tax rate test is met for a territory in an accounting
period if the simplified effective tax rate of the standard members of the
group in that territory is—

8.1.a

in the case of an accounting period beginning before 1 January 2025, at least
15%,

8.1.b

in the case of an accounting period beginning in 2025, at least 16%, or

8.1.c

in the case of an accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2026, at
least 17%.

8.2

The simplified effective tax rate of the standard members of a multinational
group in a territory in an accounting period is the amount (expressed as a
percentage) given by dividing—

8.2.a

the aggregate qualifying income tax expense of those members for that period,
by

8.2.b

the aggregate profit (loss) before income tax of those members for that
period.

####### Routine profits test

9

9.1

The routine profits test is met for a territory in an accounting period if—

9.1.a

the qualified substance based income exclusion amount for that territory for
that period is equal to or greater than the aggregate profit (loss) before
income tax for that period of the standard members of the group located in
that territory, or

9.1.b

the aggregate profit (loss) before income tax of those members for that period
is nil or reflects an overall loss.

9.2

The “qualified substance based income exclusion amount” for a territory for an
accounting period is the substance based exclusion determined for the
territory for the period in accordance with  section 195  (and see also
paragraph 1  of  this Schedule ) ignoring any payroll carve-out amount or
tangible asset carve-out amount of any standard member of the group in that
territory—

9.2.a

that is not regarded as a constituent entity of the multinational group for
the purposes of the group’s country-by-country report, or

9.2.b

that is not regarded as located in the territory for the purposes of that
report.

###### Application to joint ventures etc

####### Application in the case of joint venture group

10

10. 

For the purpose of applying  Chapter 1  of  this Part  of  this Schedule  to a
joint venture group (see   section 227   which applies  this Schedule
generally, with modifications, to joint venture groups)  , that Chapter has
effect as if —

10. .a

paragraph   3(2)(b)   were omitted (requirement for qualifying country-by-
country report),

10. .b

the reference in  paragraph 4 (2)  to “the financial accounts of that member
that are used for preparation of the group’s country-by-country report” were
to the financial accounts that would be used if a qualifying country-by-
country report had been prepared in respect of the joint venture group, and

10. .c

in  paragraph 9 (2) , the words from “ignoring” to the end were omitted.

10.2

For that purpose ignore section 227(1)(a) (reference to ultimate parent
treated as reference to joint venture parent).

10.3

Accordingly, the filing member of a multinational group may make a separate
transitional safe harbour election in respect of joint venture members of a
joint venture group in a territory.

####### Application to investment entities in same territory as owners

11

11.1

Subsection (2) applies where—

11.1.a

an investment entity that is a member of a multinational group, and

11.1.b

all of the members of a multinational group with direct ownership interests in
it,

are located in the same territory.

11.2

The investment entity is to be treated as a standard member of that group for
the purposes of  this Part  of  this Schedule .

####### Minority owned members

12

For the purposes of  this Part  of  this Schedule , references to the standard
members of a multinational group include minority owned members.

##### Transitional reporting election

###### Transitional reporting election

13

13.1

HMRC may publish a notice that provides for alternative requirements for the
information that must be contained in an information return in respect of
members of a multinational group to which an election under sub-paragraph (3)
applies.

13.2

Where—

13.2.a

HMRC have published a notice under paragraph (1) containing alternative
requirements, and

13.2.b

an election under sub-paragraph (3) applies to members of a multinational
group for an accounting period,

paragraph 10 of Schedule 14 applies to the filing member of the group for that
period subject to the notice.

13.3

An election under this sub-paragraph—

13.3.a

is to be made in respect of all of the members of a multinational group in a
territory,

13.3.b

is to be made by the filing member of the group,

13.3.c

may only have effect in relation to an accounting period that begins on or
before 31 December 2028 and ends before 1 July 2030, and

13.3.d

may only be made if condition A, B or C is met.

13.4

Condition A is that none of the members in the territory have top-up amounts
or additional top-up amounts for the accounting period to which the election
is to apply.

13.5

Condition B is that—

13.5.a

there is only one responsible member responsible for all of the members in the
territory for the accounting period to which the election is to apply, and

13.5.b

the sum of amounts attributed under Chapter 7 of Part 3 to that responsible
member for that period in respect of those members’ top-up amounts and
additional top-up amounts is equal to the sum of the members’ top-up amount
and additional top-up amounts.

13.6

Condition C is that—

13.6.a

there is more than one responsible member responsible for the members of the
group in the territory for the accounting period to which the election is to
apply, and

13.6.b

each responsible member is responsible for every member of the group in the
territory and has the same inclusion ratio for each member it is responsible
for.

13.7

Paragraph 2 of Schedule 15 (annual elections) applies to an election under
this paragraph.

Multinational top-up tax: safe harbours

Section 260

##### Qualifying domestic top-up tax safe harbour

###### Qualifying domestic top-up tax safe harbour election

####### Election for qualifying domestic top-up tax safe harbour

1

1.1

The filing member of a multinational group may make a qualifying domestic top-
up tax safe harbour election for an accounting period in respect of a
territory.

1.2

The effect of the election is that all of the standard members of the group
located in the territory are to be treated as not having top-up amounts or
additional top-up amounts for the purpose of determining the liability of any
member of the group to multinational top-up tax.

1.3

An election may only be made for an accounting period if—

1.3.a

a qualifying domestic top-up tax applies in that territory for that period,

1.3.b

that tax is accredited for the purposes of the election (see paragraph 2), and

1.3.c

none of the disqualifying conditions in paragraph 3 apply for that period.

1.4

Paragraph 2 of Schedule 15 (annual elections) applies to an election under
this paragraph.

####### Accredited qualifying domestic top-up tax

2

A qualifying domestic top-up tax is accredited for the purposes of an election
under paragraph 1 if that tax is specified as such in regulations made by the
Treasury.

####### Disqualifying conditions

3

3.1

Conditions A to D are disqualifying conditions for the purposes of paragraph
1(3)(c) in relation to a multinational group and a territory.

3.2

Condition A is that—

3.2.a

the ultimate parent is located in the territory,

3.2.b

the ultimate parent is a flow-through entity, and

3.2.c

the qualifying domestic top-up tax applying in the territory—

3.2.c.i

does not generally impose a charge on the ultimate parent as a result of it
being a flow-through entity, and

3.2.c.ii

does not include provision for a charge to be imposed on the ultimate parent
in circumstances where there would otherwise be an amount of tax that was not
charged to any member of the group in that territory.

3.3

Condition B is that—

3.3.a

a responsible member of the group is located in the territory,

3.3.b

the member is not the ultimate parent of the group,

3.3.c

the member is a flow-through entity, and

3.3.d

the qualifying domestic top-up tax applying in the territory—

3.3.d.i

does not generally impose a charge on the member as a result of it being a
flow-through entity, and

3.3.d.ii

does not include provision for a charge to be imposed on the member in
circumstances where there would otherwise be an amount of tax that was not
charged to any member of the group in that territory.

3.4

Condition C is that—

3.4.a

the qualifying domestic top-up tax applying in the territory provides that it
does not apply to a multinational group in the initial phase of the group’s
international expansion,

3.4.b

that provision is not limited in application to circumstances where the
members of a multinational group in the territory are not subject to Pillar
Two rules, and

3.4.c

that provision applies to the group.

3.5

Condition D is that the enforceability of an amount of qualifying domestic
top-up tax accruing to a standard member of the group is in question.

3.6

Subsections (3), (4) and (6) of section 256A (qualifying domestic top-up tax
treated as not accruing where contested) apply for the purpose of determining
whether the enforceability of an amount of qualifying domestic top-up tax is
in question.

###### Application to non-standard members of a multinational group

####### Application in the case of joint venture group

4

4.1

For the purpose of applying Chapter 1 of this Part of this Schedule to a joint
venture group (see section 227 which applies this Schedule generally, with
modifications, to joint venture groups), that Chapter has effect as if in
paragraph 3—

4.1.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for “Conditions A to D” there were substituted
“Conditions A to E” ,

4.1.b

after sub-paragraph (6), there were inserted—

4.1.b.7

Condition E is that the qualifying domestic top-up tax applying in the
territory—

4.1.b.7.a

does not generally impose a charge on members of the group that are members of
a joint venture group, and

4.1.b.7.b

does not include provision for a charge to be imposed on such members in
circumstances where there would otherwise be an amount of tax that was not
charged to any member of the group in that territory.

4.2

For that purpose ignore section 227(1)(a) (reference to ultimate parent
treated as reference to joint venture parent).

4.3

Accordingly, the filing member of a multinational group may make a separate
qualifying domestic top-up tax safe harbour election in respect of joint
venture members of a joint venture group in a territory.

####### Application in the case of investment entities

5

5.1

Chapter 1 of this Part of this Schedule to applies to investment entities and
has effect for that purpose as if—

5.1.a

references to standard members of a multinational group were to members of the
group that are investment entities, and

5.1.b

in paragraph 3—

5.1.b.i

in sub-paragraph (1), for “Conditions A to D” there were substituted
“Conditions A to E” ,

5.1.b.ii

after sub-paragraph (6), there were inserted—

5.1.b.ii.7

Condition E is that the qualifying domestic top-up tax applying in the
territory—

5.1.b.ii.7.a

does not generally impose a charge on members of the group that are investment
entities, and

5.1.b.ii.7.b

does not include provision for a charge to be imposed on such members in
circumstances where there would otherwise be an amount of tax that was not
charged to any member of the group in that territory.

5.2

Accordingly, the filing member of a multinational group may make a separate
qualifying domestic top-up tax safe harbour election in respect of members of
the group that are investment entities.

####### Application in the case of minority owned members

6

6.1

Chapter 1 of this Part of this Schedule to applies to minority owned members
of a multinational group and has effect for that purpose as if references to
standard members of a multinational group were to members of the group that
are minority owned members.

6.2

Accordingly, the filing member of a multinational group may make a separate
qualifying domestic top-up tax safe harbour election in respect of minority
owned members of the group.

Index of expressions defined or explained in  Parts 3  and  4

Section 261

Term Provision defining or explaining it acceptable accounting standards
section 250 (1) acceptable overseas GAAP section 250 (3) accounting currency
section 144 (5) accounting purposes section 259 additional top-up amount
sections 203  and  206 adjusted profits section 133 authorised accounting
standard section 249 (3) carrying value section 259   CFC entity  section
179(4)   CFS currency  section 254(1) combined covered tax balance section 132
company section 259 connected section 258 consolidated group section 126 (2)
controlled foreign company tax regime section 179 (4) controlling interest
section 242 (4)   country-by-country report  section 251A   covered bond
vehicle  section 272A(5) covered tax balance (and positive covered tax balance
and negative covered tax balance) section 174 covered taxes section 173
current tax section 259 deferred tax section 259 deferred tax expense section
259 deferred tax asset section 259 deferred tax liability section 259 direct
ownership interest section 242 (1) disqualified refundable imputation tax
section 253 (1)   domestic entity purposes (in Part 4)  section 273(1)
domestic purposes (in Part 4)  section 272(1) domestic top-up tax section 265
DTT excluded entity (in  Part 4 ) section 267 eligible distribution tax system
section 189 (3) eligible payroll costs section 196 eligible tangible asset
amount section 197 entity section 231 excluded dividends section 141 (2)
excluded entity section 127 excluded equity gain or loss section 142 (2) fair
value section 259 filing member paragraph 2  of  Schedule 14 flow-through
entity section 168 (2)   general partner (in Schedule 14)  paragraph 3(3) of
Schedule 14   governmental   entity section 234 (1) group (in  Part 4 )
section 266 (9) held for sale section 259 HMRC section 259 impairment section
259 indirect ownership interest section 242 (3) information return paragraph
10 (2)  of  Schedule 14 international accounting standards section 259
international financial reporting standards section 259 investment entity
section 236 (3) investment fund section 236 (1) joint venture group section
226 (1) joint venture parent section 226 (2) joint venture subsidiary section
226 (3)   limited partnership (in Schedule 14)  paragraph 3(3) of Schedule 14
location (of an entity) section 239 main entity (in relation to a permanent
establishment) section 232 material competitive distortions section 249 (4)
and  (5) merger section 130 (5) minority owned member section 228 (1) minority
subgroup section 228 (2) mobile income section 178 (3) multinational group
section 126 multinational top-up tax section 121 multi-parent group section
229 OECD tax model section 259 other comprehensive income section 143 (3)
ownership interest section 242 (1) overseas REIT equivalent section 259
partnership  section 259(1) pension fund section 235 (1)   pension   services
entity section 235 (2) permanent establishment section 232 Pillar Two rules
section 255 Pillar Two territory section 241 property, plant and equipment
section 143 (3) protected cell company (and “part”, “cell” and “core”) section
233 QDT credit section 194 (3) qualified refundable imputation tax section 253
(2) qualifying (in relation to a multinational group) section 129 qualifying
(in relation to a refundable tax credit) section 148 qualifying authority
paragraph 10 (5)  of  Schedule 14 qualifying current tax expense section 174
(5) qualifying de-merger section 131 (2) qualifying domestic top-up tax
section 256 qualifying entity (in  Part 4 ) section 266 qualifying financial
statements (in  Part 4 ) section 266 (10) qualifying reorganisation section
212 qualifying undertaxed profits tax section 257 refundable tax credit
section 148 recapture amount section 190 (4) registered group paragraph 6 (7)
of  Schedule 14 responsible member section 128   securitisation company
section 267(4) special loss deferred tax asset section 187 (3) standard member
section 132 (3) (a)  (but see also  section 228 ) stateless entity section 239
subject to Pillar Two IIR tax section 128 (7) substance based income exclusion
section 195 tax currency section 144 (5)   tax equity partnership arrangement
section 176D(5) tax expense section 259 tax expense amount section 138 (2) tax
transparent (in relation to an entity) section 238 taxable income section 144
(5) third currency section 144 (5) total deferred tax adjustment amount
section 182   transitional safe harbour election  section 255(6) underlying
profits section 134 underlying profits accounts section 136 UK GAAP section
250 (2) UK REIT section 259 ultimate parent section 126 uncertain tax position
section 259

                 Administration of domestic top-up tax

Section 275

##### Introduction

1

1.1

The Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs are responsible for
the collection and management of domestic top-up tax.

1.2

This Schedule applies (with modifications)  Schedule 14  (administration of
multinational top-up tax) for the purposes of administering domestic top-up
tax.

##### Meaning of “filing member”

2

Part  2  of  Schedule 14  applies, save that—

2.a

where a qualifying entity is not part of a group, Part  2  of  Schedule 14
does not apply, and references to “filing member” in  Schedule 14  apply as if
they were references to the qualifying entity;

2.b

where a qualifying entity is part of a group—

2.b.i

references to a “multinational group” apply as if they were references to a
group;

2.b.ii

the reference in paragraph  2 (4) (a)  of  Schedule 14  to this Schedule
applies as if it were a reference to  Schedule 14 .

##### Registration

3

Part  3  of  Schedule 14  applies as if—

3.a

for paragraph  6 (1)  and  (2)  there were substituted—

3.a.1

A filing member must register with HMRC if the filing member or, if the filing
member is a member of a group, a member of that group—

3.a.1.a

is located in the United Kingdom and

3.a.1.b

is a qualifying entity.

3.a.2

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) , a qualifying entity becomes a
qualifying entity on the first day of the first accounting period it is a
qualifying entity (the  “trigger day” ).

;

3.b

references to a “multinational group” were references to a group.

##### Other administrative provisions

4

4.1

Subject to paragraph  5 , Parts  4  to  12  of  Schedule 14  apply as if—

4.1.a

references to “multinational top-up tax” were to domestic top-up tax;

4.1.b

references to “domestic top-up tax” were to multinational top-up tax;

4.1.c

references to a “multinational group” were references to a group;

4.1.d

where an entity registered under Part  3  of that Schedule (or which should
have been registered) is not part of a group—

4.1.d.i

references to a group or its members (however framed) were references to the
entity or an entity (as the context requires);

4.1.d.ii

references to “the filing member of a group” were references to the entity.

4.2

In particular, the Treasury’s power to make regulations under paragraph  39
applies in relation to payments of domestic top-up tax.

5

5.1

In Part  11  of  Schedule 14  (penalties), only paragraphs  40 (b) ,  (c)  and
(e) ,  42  to  44 , and  46  to  50  apply.

5.2

The reference in paragraph  38  of  Schedule 14  (as applied by paragraph  4 )
to a penalty referred to in paragraph  40  of that Schedule applies as if,
instead of referring to the penalties referred to in paragraph  40 (a) ,  (b)
and  (d)  of that Schedule, it referred to the penalties inserted by paragraph
6 .

##### Amendments: penalties

6

6.1

In paragraph 1 of Schedule 41 to FA 2008 (penalties for failure to notify
etc), in the table after the entry relating to multinational top-up tax (as
inserted by paragraph  41  of  Schedule 14 ), insert—

 Domestic top-up tax Obligation of a filing member to register under paragraph
6  of  Schedule 14  to F(No.2)A 2023, as applied by paragraph  3  of  Schedule
18  to F(No.2)A 2023

6.2

In paragraph 1 of Schedule 24 to FA 2007 (penalties for errors etc), in the
table after the entry relating to multinational top-up tax (as inserted by
paragraph  45  of  Schedule 14 ), insert—

 Domestic top-up tax Overseas return notification and information provided
with it Domestic top-up tax Self-assessment return and information provided
with it Domestic top-up tax Below-threshold notification and information
provided with it

##### Other amendments

7

7.1

In section 1(1) of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 (temporary
statutory effect of House of Commons resolutions affecting income tax etc)
after “ multinational top-up tax, ” (as inserted by paragraph  68 (1)  of
Schedule 14 ) insert  “domestic top-up tax,” .

7.2

In section 178(2) of FA 1989 (setting of interest rates), after paragraph (x)
(as inserted by paragraph  68 (2)  of  Schedule 14 ) insert—

7.2.y

paragraphs  33  and  51  of  Schedule 14  to the Finance (No.2) Act 2023, as
applied in relation to domestic top-up tax by paragraph  4  of  Schedule 18
to that Act.

7.3

In paragraph 63(1) of Schedule 36 to FA 2008 (information and inspection
powers), after paragraph (cd) (as inserted by paragraph  68 (3)  of  Schedule
14 ) insert—

7.3.ce

domestic top-up tax;

7.4

In section 206(3) of FA 2013, after paragraph (h) (as inserted by paragraph
68 (4)  of  Schedule 14 ) insert—

7.4.i

domestic top-up tax.

Dumping, subsidisation and safeguarding remedies

Section 316

##### Dumping and subsidisation remedies

###### Introduction

1

Schedule 4 to TCTA 2018 (dumping of goods or foreign subsidies causing injury
to UK industry) is amended as follows.

###### Notification etc

2

2.1

In paragraph 9 (initiation of a dumping or subsidisation investigation)—

2.1.a

after sub-paragraph (3) insert—

2.1.a.3A

Where the TRA receives an application under sub-paragraph (1)(a)(i), the TRA
must notify the Secretary of State of the application before the end of the
second working day after the day on which it receives the application.

;

2.1.b

in sub-paragraph (5), in the words before paragraph (a), after “must” insert
“notify the Secretary of State that it intends to initiate a dumping
investigation and, after the relevant interval, must take the following steps
in the order in which they are set out” ;

2.1.c

in sub-paragraph (6)—

2.1.c.i

in the words before paragraph (a), after “must” insert  “notify the Secretary
of State that it intends to initiate a subsidisation investigation and, after
the relevant interval, must take the following steps in the order in which
they are set out” ;

2.1.c.ii

after paragraph (a) insert—

2.1.c.ii.aa

invite the governments of the relevant foreign countries or territories to
participate in consultations,

;

2.1.c.iii

in paragraph (b) omit the words from “after” to “consultations,”;

2.1.d

after sub-paragraph (6) insert—

2.1.d.6A

In sub-paragraphs (5) and (6), the “relevant interval” is the period of two
working days beginning with the first working day after the day on which the
TRA notifies the Secretary of State of its intention to initiate the
investigation.

;

2.1.e

after sub-paragraph (9) insert—

2.1.e.10

In this paragraph, “ working day ” means any day other than a Saturday, a
Sunday or a day that is a bank holiday under the Banking and Financial
Dealings Act 1971 in any part of the United Kingdom.

2.2

In paragraph 10 (regulations about the conduct of a dumping or subsidisation
investigation), in sub-paragraph (2)—

2.2.a

in paragraph (i), at the end insert  “or the Secretary of State” ;

2.2.b

at the end insert—

2.2.b.k

the Secretary of State requiring the TRA to reassess a proposal to terminate
an investigation.

2.3

In paragraph 11 (provisional affirmative determinations and final affirmative
or negative determinations), in sub-paragraph (5), at the end insert  “(but
see paragraph 12A for a requirement to give notice to the Secretary of State
in certain cases)” .

2.4

In paragraph 12 (termination of a dumping or a subsidisation investigation)—

2.4.a

omit paragraph (b);

2.4.b

in paragraph (c), after “20(4)(a)” insert  “or the Secretary of State
publishes notice of a decision under paragraph  20A (2) ” .

2.5

After paragraph 12 insert—

############ Requirement to give notice to the Secretary of State in certain cases

2.5.12A

2.5.12A.1

This paragraph applies where the TRA proposes to make a final negative
determination.

2.5.12A.2

The TRA must notify the Secretary of State of its proposed determination.

2.5.12A.3

Where the Secretary of State has been notified in accordance with sub-
paragraph  (2) , the Secretary of State may, within the relevant period (and
subject to sub-paragraph  (4) ), request that the TRA reassess its proposed
determination by reference to any matters specified in the request.

2.5.12A.4

The Secretary of State may only make a request under sub-paragraph  (3)  where
the Secretary of State considers that—

2.5.12A.4.a

there is information that the TRA did not take into account in its
investigation that is relevant to the proposed determination,

2.5.12A.4.b

the TRA has made an error in relation to its proposed determination, or

2.5.12A.4.c

exceptional circumstances make the request appropriate.

2.5.12A.5

The TRA must comply with a request under sub-paragraph  (3) .

2.5.12A.6

The TRA may not make its proposed determination until—

2.5.12A.6.a

the relevant period has ended, or

2.5.12A.6.b

if the Secretary of State informs the TRA within the relevant period that the
Secretary of State will not make a request under sub-paragraph  (3) , the time
when the TRA receives that information.

2.5.12A.7

For the purposes of this paragraph, the relevant period is the period of 21
days beginning with the day on which the TRA notifies the Secretary of State
that it proposes to make the determination.

###### Provisional remedies

3

3.1

In paragraph 13 (TRA’s duty to recommend requiring guarantees)—

3.1.a

in sub-paragraph (4) omit paragraph (b) (and the “and” at the end of paragraph
(a));

3.1.b

after sub-paragraph (8) insert—

3.1.b.8A

Where the TRA makes a recommendation under sub-paragraph (3), it must advise
the Secretary of State whether and why it considers that requiring importers
to give a guarantee in accordance with the recommendation would meet the
economic interest test (see paragraph 25).

3.2

In paragraph 15 (Secretary of State’s power to require a guarantee)—

3.2.a

in sub-paragraph (3), for the words from “accept” to the end substitute  “have
regard to the TRA’s advice on whether requiring a guarantee in accordance with
the recommendation would meet the economic interest test (see paragraph 25).”
;

3.2.b

after sub-paragraph (3) insert—

3.2.b.3A

Sub-paragraph  (3B)  applies if the recommendation is rejected.

3.2.b.3B

If the Secretary of State considers that it is in the public interest to do
so, the Secretary of State may decide that importers of relevant goods should
be required to give a guarantee other than in accordance with the
recommendation.

3.2.b.3C

But the Secretary of State may make a decision under sub-paragraph  (3B)  only
if a recommendation under paragraph 13(3) to the same effect as the decision
(ignoring any restrictions in paragraph 13 on the ability of the TRA to make
such a recommendation) would have complied with the requirements set out in
paragraph 14.

3.2.b.3D

Where the Secretary of State makes a decision under sub-paragraph  (3B) , the
Secretary of State—

3.2.b.3D.a

must publish notice of the decision,

3.2.b.3D.b

must notify interested parties (see paragraph 32(3)) accordingly,

3.2.b.3D.c

must lay a statement before the House of Commons setting out the reasons for
making the decision, and

3.2.b.3D.d

is required under section 13 to make provision by public notice to give effect
to the decision.

;

3.2.c

in sub-paragraph (4), after “rejected” insert “and the Secretary of State does
not make a decision under sub-paragraph  (3B) “.

###### Definitive remedies

4

4.1

In paragraph 17 (TRA’s duty to recommend an anti-dumping amount or
countervailing amount)—

4.1.a

in sub-paragraph (3), in the words before paragraph (a), for “may” substitute
“must” ;

4.1.b

in sub-paragraph (4), in the words before paragraph (a), for “may” substitute
“must” ;

4.1.c

omit sub-paragraph (5);

4.1.d

in sub-paragraph (7)—

4.1.d.i

omit “But”;

4.1.d.ii

at the end insert  “(but a recommendation may include two or more options in
accordance with sub-paragraph (8A))” ;

4.1.e

after sub-paragraph (8) insert—

4.1.e.8A

Where the TRA considers that there are two or more options which it could
recommend under sub-paragraph (3) or (4), as the case may be, in relation to
relevant goods or descriptions of relevant goods, it may give the Secretary of
State each of those options as part of its recommendation.

4.1.e.8B

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision requiring the TRA, in
specified circumstances, to consider whether it could give the Secretary of
State two or more options as part of its recommendation under sub-paragraph
(3) or (4) in relation to relevant goods or descriptions of relevant goods.

4.1.e.8C

Where, after considering whether it could give the Secretary of State two or
more options as part of its recommendation in accordance with regulations
under sub-paragraph  (8B) , the TRA considers that there is only one option
which it could recommend under sub-paragraph (3) or (4), as the case maybe, in
relation to relevant goods or descriptions of relevant goods, it must give the
Secretary of State its reasons for reaching that conclusion.

4.1.e.8D

Where the TRA gives the Secretary of State options, it must—

4.1.e.8D.a

give the Secretary of State its reasons for including each option, and

4.1.e.8D.b

inform the Secretary of State which option it prefers and why.

4.1.e.8E

Where the TRA makes a recommendation under sub-paragraph (3) or (4) it must
advise the Secretary of State whether and why it considers that applying an
anti-dumping amount or a countervailing amount, as the case may be, in
accordance with—

4.1.e.8E.a

the recommendation, or

4.1.e.8E.b

where the recommendation contains options given under sub-paragraph (8A), each
option,

would meet the economic interest test (see paragraph 25).

;

4.1.f

omit sub-paragraph (9);

4.1.g

omit sub-paragraph (10).

4.2

In paragraph 18 (TRA’s recommendations about an anti-dumping amount or a
countervailing amount), after sub-paragraph (8) insert—

4.2.9

This paragraph has effect in relation to an option given by the TRA under
paragraph 17(8A) as it has effect in relation to a recommendation by the TRA
under paragraph 17(3) or (4).

4.3

In paragraph 19 (regulations about TRA’s recommendations), after sub-paragraph
(5) insert—

4.3.6

Regulations under this paragraph may make any provision in relation to an
option given by the TRA under paragraph 17(8A) that they may make in relation
to a recommendation by the TRA under paragraph 17(3) or (4).

4.4

In the italic heading before paragraph 20 (Secretary of State’s power to
accept or reject a recommendation), for “power to accept or reject” substitute
“powers in relation to” .

4.5

In paragraph 20—

4.5.a

in sub-paragraph (1)—

4.5.a.i

the words from “decide” to the end become paragraph (a);

4.5.a.ii

at the end of that paragraph insert

, or

4.5.a.ii.b

request that the TRA reassess the recommendation, by reference to any matters
specified in the request, with a view to amending or replacing the
recommendation.

;

4.5.b

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

4.5.b.1A

Where the Secretary of State accepts a recommendation which contains options
given in reliance on paragraph 17(8A), the Secretary of State must decide
which of those options to adopt.

;

4.5.c

in sub-paragraph (3), for the words from “accept” to the end substitute  “have
regard to the TRA’s advice on whether the application of an anti-dumping
amount or a countervailing amount to goods in accordance with the
recommendation, or in accordance with each option, as the case may be, would
meet the economic interest test (see paragraph 25)” ;

4.5.d

in sub-paragraph (4), after “rejected” insert  “and the Secretary of State
does not make a decision under paragraph  20A (2) ” ;

4.5.e

in sub-paragraph (5), in paragraph (a), after “recommendation” insert  “,
including any particular option adopted by the Secretary of State,” ;

4.5.f

after sub-paragraph (5) insert—

4.5.f.5A

The Secretary of State may only make a request under sub-paragraph (1)(b)
where the Secretary of State considers that—

4.5.f.5A.a

there is information that the TRA did not take into account in its
investigation that is relevant to the recommendation,

4.5.f.5A.b

the TRA has made an error in relation to its recommendation, or

4.5.f.5A.c

exceptional circumstances make the request appropriate.

4.5.f.5B

Before making a request under sub-paragraph (1)(b), the Secretary of State
must consult the TRA.

4.5.f.5C

Where the Secretary of State makes a request under sub-paragraph (1)(b), the
TRA must—

4.5.f.5C.a

comply with the request, and

4.5.f.5C.b

in reassessing its recommendation, have regard to any particular
considerations which the Secretary of State may specify in the request.

4.6

After paragraph 20 insert—

############ Secretary of State’s power to apply an alternative remedy

4.6.20A

4.6.20A.1

This paragraph applies where the Secretary of State rejects a recommendation
under paragraph 20.

4.6.20A.2

If the Secretary of State considers that it is in the public interest to do
so, the Secretary of State may decide to apply an anti-dumping amount or a
countervailing amount in relation to relevant goods or descriptions of
relevant goods to which the TRA’s recommendation related, other than in
accordance with the recommendation.

4.6.20A.3

But the Secretary of State may make a decision under sub-paragraph (2) only if
a recommendation under paragraph 17(3) or (4) to the same effect as the
decision (ignoring any restrictions in paragraph 17 on the ability of the TRA
to make such a recommendation) would have complied with the requirements set
out in paragraph 18.

4.6.20A.4

Where the Secretary of State makes a decision under sub-paragraph (2), the
Secretary of State—

4.6.20A.4.a

must publish notice of the decision,

4.6.20A.4.b

must notify interested parties (see paragraph 32(3)) accordingly,

4.6.20A.4.c

must lay a statement before the House of Commons setting out the reasons for
making the decision, and

4.6.20A.4.d

is required under section 13 to make provision by public notice to give effect
to the decision.

###### Reviews etc

5

5.1

In paragraph 21 (reviews of continuing application of an anti-dumping amount
or a countervailing amount)—

5.1.a

in sub-paragraph (4)—

5.1.a.i

after sub-paragraph (c) insert—

5.1.a.i.ca

provision corresponding or similar to any provision made by or under this
Schedule in relation to dumping or subsidisation investigations, including any
of the powers or duties of the TRA or the Secretary of State in respect of
those investigations and any recommendations or decisions resulting from them;

5.1.a.i.cb

provision conferring functions (including functions involving the exercise of
a discretion) on the Secretary of State or the TRA;

;

5.1.a.ii

at the end insert—

5.1.a.ii.e

provision for the Secretary of State to provide by public notice, in a case
where a review in relation to the application of an anti-dumping amount or a
countervailing amount has been completed, for—

5.1.a.ii.e.i

the application of the amount to be treated as having expired at the end of
the specified period (see paragraph 17(3) and (4)) set out in the public
notice under section 13 relating to the amount;

5.1.a.ii.e.ii

where the application of the amount was not suspended in connection with a
review, a person to be entitled to a repayment of the amount that they paid
after applying for the review;

5.1.a.ii.e.iii

where the application of the amount was suspended in connection with a review,
a person to be liable for the amount that they would have been liable to pay
if the review had not taken place.

;

5.1.b

in sub-paragraph (6)—

5.1.b.i

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (a);

5.1.b.ii

after that paragraph insert—

5.1.b.ii.aa

the TRA giving the Secretary of State options as part of a recommendation,

;

5.1.b.iii

for paragraph (b) substitute—

5.1.b.iii.b

the Secretary of State’s powers in relation to such a recommendation, and

5.1.b.iii.c

the date from which any variation or revocation may have effect, which may be
a date before the date of the recommendation by the TRA or decision by the
Secretary of State.

;

5.1.c

in sub-paragraph (7)—

5.1.c.i

in the words before paragraph (a), for “accepts a recommendation” substitute
“decides” ;

5.1.c.ii

in paragraph (a), for “recommendation and of the acceptance of it” substitute
“decision” ;

5.1.c.iii

in paragraph (c), for “recommendation” substitute  “decision” ;

5.1.d

in sub-paragraph (8), after “State” insert  “, or which the Secretary of State
may decide to make other than in accordance with a recommendation,” ;

5.1.e

in sub-paragraph (9)—

5.1.e.i

for “the TRA may recommend” substitute  “the Secretary of State may decide,
whether or not in response to a recommendation of the TRA,” ;

5.1.e.ii

for “the recommendation” substitute  “the decision” ;

5.1.f

in sub-paragraph (10) for “recommendation” substitute  “decision” .

5.2

In paragraph 22 (variation or revocation following an international dispute
decision)—

5.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(b), for “the Secretary of State accepting or rejecting”
substitute  “the Secretary of State’s powers in relation to” ;

5.2.b

in sub-paragraph (2), at the end insert—

5.2.b.d

make provision corresponding or similar to any provision made by or under this
Schedule in relation to dumping or subsidisation investigations, including any
of the powers or duties of the TRA or the Secretary of State in respect of
those investigations and any recommendations or decisions resulting from them;

5.2.b.e

make provision conferring functions (including functions involving the
exercise of a discretion) on the Secretary of State or the TRA.

;

5.2.c

in sub-paragraph (4)—

5.2.c.i

in the words before paragraph (a), for “accepts a recommendation” substitute
“decides” ;

5.2.c.ii

in paragraph (a), for “recommendation and acceptance of it” substitute
“decision” ;

5.2.c.iii

in paragraph (c), for “recommendation” substitute  “decision” .

5.3

In paragraph 26 (suspension of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy remedies)—

5.3.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(b), for “the Secretary of State accepting or rejecting”
substitute  “the Secretary of State’s powers in relation to” ;

5.3.b

in sub-paragraph (4), at the end insert—

5.3.b.e

provision corresponding or similar to any provision made by or under this
Schedule in relation to dumping or subsidisation investigations, including any
of the powers or duties of the TRA or the Secretary of State in respect of
those investigations and any recommendations or decisions resulting from them;

5.3.b.f

provision conferring functions (including functions involving the exercise of
a discretion) on the Secretary of State or the TRA.

;

5.3.c

in sub-paragraph (6)—

5.3.c.i

in the words before paragraph (a), for “accepts a recommendation” substitute
“decides” ;

5.3.c.ii

in paragraph (a), for “recommendation and of the acceptance of it” substitute
“decision” ;

5.3.c.iii

in paragraph (c), for “recommendation” substitute  “decision” .

###### Revocation in the public interest

6

After paragraph 22 insert—

########## Revocation in the public interest

6.22A

6.22A.1

The Secretary of State may decide to revoke the application of an anti-dumping
amount or a countervailing amount to goods in the absence of a recommendation
from the TRA where the Secretary of State considers that it is in the public
interest to do so.

6.22A.2

Before making a decision under sub-paragraph  (1)  the Secretary of State must
consult such persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

6.22A.3

Where the Secretary of State makes a decision under sub-paragraph (1), the
Secretary of State—

6.22A.3.a

must publish notice of the decision,

6.22A.3.b

must notify interested parties (see paragraph 32(3)) accordingly,

6.22A.3.c

must lay a statement before the House of Commons setting out the reasons for
making the decision, and

6.22A.3.d

is required under section 13 to make provision by public notice to give effect
to the decision.

###### Power to request assistance etc

7

After paragraph 22A (as inserted by paragraph  6 ) insert—

########## Power to request assistance etc

7.22B

7.22B.1

The Secretary of State may request that the TRA give advice, information or
other support to the Secretary of State for the purpose of allowing the
Secretary of State to decide whether to make a decision under any of the
following—

7.22B.1.a

paragraph 15 (3B)  (decision to require a guarantee other than in accordance
with a recommendation);

7.22B.1.b

paragraph  20A (2)  (decision to apply a final remedy other than in accordance
with a recommendation);

7.22B.1.c

paragraph  22A (1)  (decision to revoke a final remedy in the absence of a
recommendation).

7.22B.2

The Secretary of State may include in a request under sub-paragraph  (1)  a
requirement that the TRA investigate and provide a report on any matter
specified in the request.

7.22B.3

Before making a request under sub-paragraph  (1) , the Secretary of State must
consult the TRA.

7.22B.4

The TRA must comply with a request under sub-paragraph  (1) .

##### Safeguarding remedies

###### Introduction

8

Schedule 5 to TCTA 2018 (increase in imports causing serious injury to UK
producers) is amended as follows.

###### Notification etc

9

9.1

In paragraph 7 (initiation of a safeguarding investigation)—

9.1.a

after sub-paragraph (4) insert—

9.1.a.4A

Where the TRA receives an application under sub-paragraph (1)(a)(i), the TRA
must notify the Secretary of State of the application before the end of the
second working day after the day on which it receives the application

;

9.1.b

in sub-paragraph (6), in the words before paragraph (a), after “must” insert
“notify the Secretary of State that it intends to initiate a safeguarding
investigation and, after the relevant interval, must take the following steps
in the order in which they are set out” ;

9.1.c

after sub-paragraph (6) insert—

9.1.c.6A

In sub-paragraph (6), the “relevant interval” is the period of two working
days beginning with the first working day after the day on which the TRA
notifies the Secretary of State of its intention to initiate the safeguarding
investigation.

;

9.1.d

after sub-paragraph (7) insert—

9.1.d.8

In this paragraph, “ working day ” means any day other than a Saturday, a
Sunday or a day that is a bank holiday under the Banking and Financial
Dealings Act 1971 in any part of the United Kingdom.

9.2

In paragraph 9 (provisional affirmative determinations and final affirmative
or negative determinations), in sub-paragraph (5), at the end insert  “(but
see paragraph 10A for a requirement to give notice to the Secretary of State
in certain cases)” .

9.3

In paragraph 10 (termination of a safeguarding investigation)—

9.3.a

in paragraph (b), at the end insert  “(and see paragraph 10A for a requirement
to give notice to the Secretary of State before making the determination)” ;

9.3.b

in paragraph (c), after “20(3)(a)” insert  “or the Secretary of State
publishes notice of a decision under paragraph 19(2C) or 20(2C)” ;

9.4

After paragraph 10 insert—

############ Requirement to give notice to the Secretary of State in certain cases

9.4.10A

9.4.10A.1

This paragraph applies where the TRA—

9.4.10A.1.a

proposes to make a final negative determination, or

9.4.10A.1.b

proposes to make a final affirmative determination in relation to goods and to
determine that there is not a recommendation which it could make under
paragraph 16(3) in relation to them.

9.4.10A.2

The TRA must notify the Secretary of State of its proposed determination.

9.4.10A.3

Where the Secretary of State has been notified in accordance with sub-
paragraph (2), the Secretary of State may, within the relevant period (and
subject to sub-paragraph  (4) ), request that the TRA reassess its proposed
determination by reference to any matters specified in the request.

9.4.10A.4

The Secretary of State may only make a request under sub-paragraph  (3)  where
the Secretary of State considers that—

9.4.10A.4.a

there is information that the TRA did not take into account in its
investigation that is relevant to the proposed determination,

9.4.10A.4.b

the TRA has made an error in relation to its proposed determination, or

9.4.10A.4.c

exceptional circumstances make the request appropriate.

9.4.10A.5

The TRA must comply with a request under sub-paragraph  (3) .

9.4.10A.6

The TRA may not make its proposed determination until—

9.4.10A.6.a

the relevant period has ended, or

9.4.10A.6.b

if the Secretary of State informs the TRA within the relevant period that the
Secretary of State will not make a request under  sub-paragraph (3) , the time
when the TRA receives that information.

9.4.10A.7

For the purposes of this paragraph, the relevant period is the period of 21
days beginning with the day on which the TRA notifies the Secretary of State
that it proposes to make the determination.

###### Provisional remedies

10

10.1

In paragraph 11 (TRA’s duty to recommend a provisional safeguarding amount or
a provisional tariff rate quota)—

10.1.a

in sub-paragraph (5) omit paragraph (b) (and the “and” at the end of paragraph
(a));

10.1.b

after sub-paragraph (8) insert—

10.1.b.8A

Where the TRA makes a recommendation under sub-paragraph (3), it must advise
the Secretary of State whether and why it considers that applying a
provisional safeguarding amount to relevant goods, or making relevant goods
subject to a provisional tariff rate quota, in accordance with the
recommendation, would meet the economic interest test (see paragraph 23).

10.2

In paragraph 14 (Secretary of State’s power to apply a provisional
safeguarding amount)—

10.2.a

in sub-paragraph (2), for paragraphs (a) and (b) (and the “—” before paragraph
(a)) substitute  “it is not in the public interest to accept it.” ;

10.2.b

after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

10.2.b.2A

In considering that, the Secretary of State must have regard to the TRA’s
advice on whether applying a provisional safeguard amount to relevant goods in
accordance with the recommendation would meet the economic interest test (see
paragraph 23).

10.2.b.2B

Sub-paragraph (2C) applies if the recommendation is rejected.

10.2.b.2C

If the Secretary of State considers that it is in the public interest to do
so, the Secretary of State may decide that—

10.2.b.2C.a

a provisional safeguarding amount should be applied to all the relevant goods,
or to specified relevant goods, other than in accordance with the
recommendation, or

10.2.b.2C.b

all the relevant goods, or specified relevant goods, should be subject to a
provisional tariff rate quota for a specified period.

10.2.b.2D

But the Secretary of State may make a decision under sub-paragraph (2C) only
if a recommendation under paragraph 11(3) to the same effect as the decision
(ignoring any restrictions in paragraph 11 on the ability of the TRA to make
such a recommendation) would have complied with the requirements set out in
paragraph 12 or 13, as the case may be.

10.2.b.2E

Where the Secretary of State makes a decision under sub-paragraph (2C), the
Secretary of State—

10.2.b.2E.a

must publish notice of the decision,

10.2.b.2E.b

must notify interested parties (see paragraph 31(3)) accordingly,

10.2.b.2E.c

must lay a statement before the House of Commons setting out the reasons for
making the decision, and

10.2.b.2E.d

is required under section 13 to make provision by public notice to give effect
to the decision.

;

10.2.c

in sub-paragraph (3), after “rejected” insert  “and the Secretary of State
does not make a decision under sub-paragraph (2C)” .

10.3

In paragraph 15 (Secretary of State’s power to subject goods to a provisional
tariff rate quota)—

10.3.a

in sub-paragraph (2), for paragraphs (a) and (b) (and the “—” before paragraph
(a)) substitute  “it is not in the public interest to accept it” ;

10.3.b

after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

10.3.b.2A

In considering that, the Secretary of State must have regard to the TRA’s
advice on whether applying a provisional tariff rate quota to relevant goods
in accordance with the recommendation would meet the economic interest test
(see paragraph 23).

10.3.b.2B

Sub-paragraph (2C) applies if the recommendation is rejected.

10.3.b.2C

If the Secretary of State considers that it is in the public interest to do
so, the Secretary of State may decide that—

10.3.b.2C.a

all the relevant goods, or specified relevant goods, should be subject to a
provisional tariff rate quota, other than in accordance with the
recommendation, or

10.3.b.2C.b

a provisional safeguarding amount should be applied for a specified period to
all the relevant goods or, to specified relevant goods.

10.3.b.2D

But the Secretary of State may make a decision under sub-paragraph (2C) only
if a recommendation under paragraph 11(3) to the same effect as the decision
(ignoring any restrictions in paragraph 11 on the ability of the TRA to make
such a recommendation) would have complied with the requirements set out in
paragraph 12 or 13, as the case may be.

10.3.b.2E

Where the Secretary of State makes a decision under sub-paragraph (2C), the
Secretary of State—

10.3.b.2E.a

must publish notice of the decision,

10.3.b.2E.b

must notify interested parties (see paragraph 31(3)) accordingly,

10.3.b.2E.c

must lay a statement before the House of Commons setting out the reasons for
making the decision, and

10.3.b.2E.d

is required under section 13 to make provision by public notice to give effect
to the decision.

;

10.3.c

in sub-paragraph (3), after “rejected” insert  “and the Secretary of State
does not make a decision under sub-paragraph (2C)” .

###### Definitive remedies

11

11.1

In paragraph 16 (TRA’s duty to recommend a definitive safeguarding amount or
tariff rate quota)—

11.1.a

omit sub-paragraph (5)(a) (and the “and” at the end of that sub-paragraph);

11.1.b

after sub-paragraph (10) insert—

11.1.b.10A

Where the TRA considers that there are two or more options which it could
recommend under sub-paragraph (3)(a) or (b), in relation to relevant goods or
descriptions of relevant goods, it may give the Secretary of State each of
those options as part of its recommendation.

11.1.b.10B

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision requiring the TRA, in
specified circumstances, to consider whether it could give the Secretary of
State two or more options as part of its recommendation under sub-paragraph
(3)(a) or (b) in relation to relevant goods or descriptions of relevant goods.

11.1.b.10C

Where, after considering whether it could give the Secretary of State two or
more options as part of its recommendation in accordance with regulations
under sub-paragraph  (10B) , the TRA considers that there is only one option
which it could reasonably recommend under sub-paragraph (3)(a) or (b) in
relation to relevant goods or descriptions of relevant goods, it must give the
Secretary of State its reasons for reaching that conclusion.

11.1.b.10D

Where the TRA gives the Secretary of State options, it must—

11.1.b.10D.a

give the Secretary of State its reasons for including each option, and

11.1.b.10D.b

inform the Secretary of State which option it prefers and why.

11.1.b.10E

Where the TRA makes a recommendation under sub-paragraph (3) it must advise
the Secretary of State whether and why it considers that applying a definitive
safeguarding amount or making relevant goods subject to a quota in accordance
with—

11.1.b.10E.a

its recommendation, or

11.1.b.10E.b

where the recommendation contains options given under sub-paragraph (10A),
each option,

would meet the economic interest test (see paragraph 23).

11.2

In paragraph 17 (TRA’s recommendations about a definitive safeguarding
amount)—

11.2.a

in sub-paragraph (8), at the end insert  “or, where the TRA’s recommendation
contained options proposing different lengths, the length adopted by the
Secretary of State” ;

11.2.b

after sub-paragraph (10) insert—

11.2.b.11

This paragraph has effect in relation to an option given by the TRA under
paragraph 16(10A) as it has effect in relation to a recommendation by the TRA
under paragraph 16(3)(a).

11.3

In paragraph 18 (TRA’s recommendations regarding tariff rate quotas), after
sub-paragraph (11) insert—

11.3.11

This paragraph has effect in relation to an option given by the TRA under
paragraph 16(10A) as it has effect in relation to a recommendation by the TRA
under paragraph 16(3)(b).

11.4

In the italic heading before paragraph 19 (Secretary of State’s power to apply
a definitive safeguarding amount), for “power” substitute  “powers in relation
to a recommendation” .

11.5

In paragraph 19—

11.5.a

in sub-paragraph (1)—

11.5.a.i

the words from “decide” to the end become paragraph (a);

11.5.a.ii

at the end of that paragraph insert

, or

11.5.a.ii.b

request that the TRA reassess its recommendation, by reference to any matters
specified in the request, with a view to amending or replacing the
recommendation.

;

11.5.b

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

11.5.b.1A

Where the Secretary of State accepts a recommendation which contains options
given in reliance on paragraph 16(10A), the Secretary of State must decide
which of those options to adopt.

;

11.5.c

in sub-paragraph (2), for paragraphs (a) and (b) (and the “—” before them)
substitute  “it is not in the public interest to accept it” ;

11.5.d

after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

11.5.d.2A

In considering that, the Secretary of State must have regard to the TRA’s
advice on whether applying a definitive safeguarding amount in accordance with
the recommendation, or in accordance with each option, as the case may be,
would meet the economic interest test (see paragraph 23).

11.5.d.2B

Sub-paragraph  (2C)  applies if the recommendation is rejected.

11.5.d.2C

If the Secretary of State considers that it is in the public interest to do
so, the Secretary of State may decide that—

11.5.d.2C.a

a definitive safeguarding amount should be applied to all the relevant goods,
or to specified relevant goods, other than in accordance with the
recommendation, or

11.5.d.2C.b

all the relevant goods, or specified relevant goods, should be subject to a
tariff rate quota for a specified period.

11.5.d.2D

But the Secretary of State may make a decision under sub-paragraph  (2C)  only
if a recommendation under paragraph 16 to the same effect as the decision
(ignoring any restrictions in paragraph 16 on the ability of the TRA to make
such a recommendation) would have complied with the requirements set out in
paragraph 17 or 18, as the case may be.

11.5.d.2E

Where the Secretary of State makes a decision under sub-paragraph  (2C) , the
Secretary of State—

11.5.d.2E.a

must publish notice of the decision,

11.5.d.2E.b

must notify interested parties (see paragraph 31(3)) accordingly,

11.5.d.2E.c

must lay a statement before the House of Commons setting out the reasons for
making the decision, and

11.5.d.2E.d

is required under section 13 to make provision by public notice to give effect
to the decision.

;

11.5.e

in sub-paragraph (3), after “rejected” insert  “and the Secretary of State
does not make a decision under sub-paragraph  (2C) ” ;

11.5.f

in sub-paragraph (4), in paragraph (a), after “recommendation” insert  “,
including any particular option adopted by the Secretary of State,” ;

11.5.g

after sub-paragraph (4) insert—

11.5.g.4A

The Secretary of State may only make a request under sub-paragraph (1)(b)
where the Secretary of State considers that—

11.5.g.4A.a

there is information that the TRA did not take into account in its
investigation that is relevant to the recommendation,

11.5.g.4A.b

the TRA has made an error in relation to its recommendation, or

11.5.g.4A.c

exceptional circumstances make the request appropriate.

11.5.g.4B

Before making a request under sub-paragraph (1)(b), the Secretary of State
must consult the TRA.

11.5.g.4C

Where the Secretary of State makes a request under sub-paragraph (1)(b), the
TRA must—

11.5.g.4C.a

comply with the request, and

11.5.g.4C.b

in reassessing its recommendation, have regard to any particular
considerations which the Secretary of State may specify in the request.

11.6

In the italic heading before paragraph 20 (Secretary of State’s power to
subject goods to a tariff rate quota), for “power” substitute  “powers in
relation to a recommendation” .

11.7

In paragraph 20—

11.7.a

in sub-paragraph (1)—

11.7.a.i

the words from “decide” to the end become paragraph (a);

11.7.a.ii

at the end of that paragraph insert

, or

11.7.a.ii.b

request that the TRA reassess its recommendation with a view to amending or
replacing the recommendation.

;

11.7.b

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

11.7.b.1A

Where the Secretary of State accepts a recommendation which contains options
given in reliance on paragraph 16(10A), the Secretary of State must decide
which of those options to adopt.

;

11.7.c

in sub-paragraph (2), for paragraphs (a) and (b) (and the “—” before them)
substitute  “it is not in the public interest to accept it” ;

11.7.d

after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

11.7.d.2A

In considering that, the Secretary of State must have regard to the TRA’s
advice on whether applying a tariff rate quota in accordance with the
recommendation, or in accordance with each option, as the case may be, would
meet the economic interest test (see paragraph 23).

11.7.d.2B

Sub-paragraph  (2C)  applies if the recommendation is rejected.

11.7.d.2C

If the Secretary of State considers that it is in the public interest to do
so, the Secretary of State may decide that—

11.7.d.2C.a

all the relevant goods, or specified relevant goods, should be subject to a
tariff rate quota, other than in accordance with the recommendation, or

11.7.d.2C.b

a definitive safeguarding amount should be applied for a specified period to
all the relevant goods, or to specified relevant goods.

11.7.d.2D

But the Secretary of State may make a decision under sub-paragraph  (2C)  only
if a recommendation under paragraph 16 to the same effect as the decision
(ignoring any restrictions in paragraph 16 on the ability of the TRA to make
such a recommendation) would have complied with the requirements set out in
paragraph 17 or 18, as the case may be.

11.7.d.2E

Where the Secretary of State makes a decision under sub-paragraph  (2C) , the
Secretary of State—

11.7.d.2E.a

must publish notice of the decision,

11.7.d.2E.b

must notify interested parties (see paragraph 31(3)) accordingly,

11.7.d.2E.c

must lay a statement before the House of Commons setting out the reasons for
making the decision, and

11.7.d.2E.d

is required under section 13 to make provision by public notice to give effect
to the decision.

;

11.7.e

in sub-paragraph (3), after “rejected” insert  “ and the Secretary of State
does not make a decision under sub-paragraph  (2C) ” ;

11.7.f

in sub-paragraph (4), in paragraph (a), after “recommendation” insert  “,
including any particular option adopted by the Secretary of State,” ;

11.7.g

after sub-paragraph (4) insert—

11.7.g.4A

The Secretary of State may only make a request under sub-paragraph (1)(b)
where the Secretary of State considers that—

11.7.g.4A.a

there is information that the TRA did not take into account in its
investigation that is relevant to the recommendation,

11.7.g.4A.b

the TRA has made an error in relation to its recommendation, or

11.7.g.4A.c

exceptional circumstances make the request appropriate.

11.7.g.4B

Before making a request under sub-paragraph (1)(b), the Secretary of State
must consult the TRA.

11.7.g.4C

Where the Secretary of State makes a request under sub-paragraph (1)(b), the
TRA must—

11.7.g.4C.a

comply with the request, and

11.7.g.4C.b

in reassessing its recommendation, have regard to any particular
considerations which the Secretary of State may specify in the request.

###### Reviews etc

12

12.1

In paragraph 21 (reviews)—

12.1.a

in sub-paragraph (4), after paragraph (b) insert—

12.1.a.ba

provision corresponding or similar to any provision made by or under this
Schedule in relation to a safeguarding investigation, including any of the
powers or duties of the TRA or the Secretary of State in respect of those
investigations and any recommendations or decisions resulting from them;

12.1.a.bb

provision conferring functions (including functions involving the exercise of
a discretion) on the Secretary of State or the TRA;

;

12.1.b

in sub-paragraph (6)—

12.1.b.i

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (a);

12.1.b.ii

after that paragraph insert—

12.1.b.ii.aa

the TRA giving the Secretary of State options as part of a recommendation, and

;

12.1.b.iii

in paragraph (b), for “the Secretary of State accepting or rejecting”
substitute  “the Secretary of State’s powers in relation to” .

12.1.c

in sub-paragraph (7)—

12.1.c.i

in the words before paragraph (a), for “accepts a recommendation” substitute
“decides” ;

12.1.c.ii

in paragraph (a), for “recommendation and of the acceptance of it” substitute
“decision” ;

12.1.c.iii

in paragraph (c), for “recommendation” substitute  “decision” .

12.1.d

in sub-paragraph (8), after “State” insert  “, or which the Secretary of State
may decide to make other than in accordance with a recommendation,” ;

12.1.e

in sub-paragraph (9), after “State” insert  “, or which the Secretary of State
may decide to make other than in accordance with a recommendation,” ;

12.1.f

in sub-paragraph (10)—

12.1.f.i

in the words before paragraph (a), for “accepts a recommendation” substitute
“decides” ;

12.1.f.ii

in paragraph (a), for “recommendation and of the acceptance of it” substitute
“decision” ;

12.1.f.iii

in paragraph (c), for “recommendation” substitute  “decision” .

12.2

In paragraph 22 (variation or revocation following an international dispute
decision)—

12.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(b), for “the Secretary of State accepting or rejecting”
substitute  “the Secretary of State’s powers in relation to” ;

12.2.b

in sub-paragraph (2), at the end insert—

12.2.b.d

make provision corresponding or similar to any provision made by or under this
Schedule in relation to safeguarding investigations, including any of the
powers or duties of the TRA or the Secretary of State in respect of those
investigations and any recommendations or decisions resulting from them;

12.2.b.e

make provision conferring functions (including functions involving the
exercise of a discretion) on the Secretary of State or the TRA.

;

12.2.c

in sub-paragraph (4)—

12.2.c.i

in the words before paragraph (a), for “accepts a recommendation” substitute
“decides” ;

12.2.c.ii

in paragraph (a), for “recommendation and of the acceptance of it” substitute
“decision” ;

12.2.c.iii

in paragraph (c), for “recommendation” substitute  “decision” .

12.3

In paragraph 24 (suspension of safeguarding remedies)—

12.3.a

in sub-paragraph (1), in paragraph (b), for “the Secretary of State accepting
or rejecting” substitute  “the Secretary of State’s powers in relation to” ;

12.3.b

in sub-paragraph (4), at the end insert—

12.3.b.e

provision corresponding or similar to any provision made by or under this
Schedule in relation to a safeguarding investigation, including any of the
powers or duties of the TRA or the Secretary of State in respect of those
investigations and any recommendations or decisions resulting from them;

12.3.b.f

provision conferring functions (including functions involving the exercise of
a discretion) on the Secretary of State or the TRA.

;

12.3.c

in sub-paragraph (6)—

12.3.c.i

in the words before paragraph (a), for “accepts a recommendation” substitute
“decides” ;

12.3.c.ii

in paragraph (a), for “recommendation and of the acceptance of it” substitute
“decision” ;

12.3.c.iii

in paragraph (c), for “recommendation” substitute  “decision” .

###### Revocation in the public interest

13

After paragraph 22 insert—

########## Revocation in the public interest

13.22A

13.22A.1

The Secretary of State may decide that the application of a definitive
safeguarding amount to goods, or a tariff rate quota to which goods are
subject, is to be revoked in the absence of a recommendation from the TRA
where the Secretary of State considers that revocation is in the public
interest.

13.22A.2

Before making a decision under sub-paragraph  (1)  the Secretary of State must
consult such persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

13.22A.3

Where the Secretary of State makes a decision under sub-paragraph (1), the
Secretary of State—

13.22A.3.a

must publish notice of the decision,

13.22A.3.b

must notify interested parties (see paragraph 31(3)) accordingly,

13.22A.3.c

must lay a statement before the House of Commons setting out the reasons for
making the decision, and

13.22A.3.d

is required under section 13 to make provision by public notice to give effect
to the decision.

###### Power to request assistance etc

14

After paragraph 22A (as inserted by paragraph  13 ) insert—

########## Power to request assistance etc

14.22B

14.22B.1

The Secretary of State may request that the TRA give advice, information or
other support to the Secretary of State for the purpose of allowing the
Secretary of State to decide whether to make a decision under any of the
following—

14.22B.1.a

paragraphs 14(2C) and 15(2C) (decisions to adopt a provisional remedy other
than in accordance with a recommendation);

14.22B.1.b

paragraphs 19(2C) and 20(2C) (decisions to adopt a final remedy other than in
accordance with a recommendation);

14.22B.1.c

paragraph 22A(1) (decision to revoke a final remedy in the absence of a
recommendation).

14.22B.2

The Secretary of State may include in a request under sub-paragraph  (1)  a
requirement that the TRA investigate and provide a report on any matter
specified in the request.

14.22B.3

Before making a request under sub-paragraph  (1) , the Secretary of State must
consult the TRA.

14.22B.4

The TRA must comply with a request under sub-paragraph  (1) .

##### Consequential and related provision

15

In section 13 of TCTA 2018 (dumping of goods, foreign subsidies and increases
in imports)—

15.a

in subsection (2)—

15.a.i

for “accepts a recommendation by the TRA” substitute  “decides” ;

15.a.ii

for “the recommendation” substitute  “the decision” .

15.b

in subsection (3)—

15.b.i

for “accepts a recommendation by the TRA” substitute  “decides” ;

15.b.ii

for “the recommendation” substitute  “the decision” .

15.c

in subsection (4)—

15.c.i

for “accepts a recommendation by the TRA” substitute  “decides” ;

15.c.ii

for “the recommendation” substitute  “the decision” .

16

16.1

The Treasury or the Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory
instrument make such provision as the Treasury or the Secretary of State, as
the case may be, considers appropriate in relation to trade remedies measures
transitioned under Part 12 of the Trade Remedies (Dumping and Subsidisation)
(EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/450 ), including provision—

16.1.a

in relation to exemptions that has effect from IP completion day (or any later
day);

16.1.b

conferring functions (including functions involving the exercise of a
discretion) on the Secretary of State or the Trade Remedies Authority.

16.2

A statutory instrument containing regulations under sub-paragraph (1) is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of the House of Commons.

##### Commencement

17

17.1

Any power to make regulations under or by virtue of this Schedule comes into
force on the day on which this Act is passed.

17.2

The remaining provisions of this Schedule come into force on such day as the
Secretary of State may by regulations appoint.

17.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations make transitional or saving
provision in connection with the coming into force of any provision of this
Schedule.

17.4

The power to make regulations under sub-paragraph  (3)  includes power to make
different provision for different purposes.

17.5

Regulations under this paragraph are to be made by statutory instrument.

Bilateral safeguarding remedies

Section 316

##### Amendments to TCTA 2018

1

1.1

Section 13 of TCTA 2018 is amended as follows.

1.2

In subsection (1)—

1.2.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (a);

1.2.b

at the end insert

, and

1.2.b.c

Schedule 5A (increase in imports as a result of free trade agreement causing
serious injury to UK producers).

1.3

In subsection (2), for “Schedule 4 or 5” substitute  “Schedule 4, 5 or 5A” .

1.4

In subsection (3), after “Schedule 5” insert  “or 5A”

1.5

In subsection (4), in the words before paragraph (a), for “Schedule 4 or 5”
substitute  “Schedule 4, 5 or 5A” .

2

After Schedule 5 of that Act insert—

Increase in imports as a result of free trade agreement causing serious injury
to UK producers

Section 13

########### Application of this Schedule

2.1

2.1.1

Schedule 5 (increase in imports causing serious injury to UK producers)
applies in relation to a relevant increase in imports subject to the following
paragraphs of this Schedule.

2.1.2

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (1)  a “relevant increase in imports”
occurs where—

2.1.2.a

goods have been or are being, or may have been or may be being, imported into
the United Kingdom in increased quantities,

2.1.2.b

the importation of the goods in increased quantities was or is, or may have
been or may be being, caused by the reduction or elimination of import duty as
a result of a free trade agreement, and

2.1.2.c

the importation of the goods in increased quantities has caused or is causing,
or may have caused or may be causing, serious injury to UK producers of those
goods.

2.1.3

In  sub-paragraph (2) (c)  “serious injury” and “UK producers” have the
meaning that they have for the purposes of Schedule 5 (see paragraphs 2 and 3
of that Schedule).

########### TRA and Secretary of State required to have regard to relevant free trade agreement

2.2

In applying the provisions of Schedule 5 in accordance with this Schedule the
TRA and the Secretary of State must have regard to the relevant free trade
agreement.

########### Meaning of importation in “increased quantities”

2.3

Paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 (meaning of importation in “increased quantities”)
is to be read as if, in paragraph (c) of sub-paragraph (2), the words from
“including provision” to the end were omitted.

########### Bilateral safeguarding investigation

2.4

Paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 (safeguarding investigation) is to be read as if, in
sub-paragraph (1)—

2.4.a

the “and” at the end of paragraph (a) were omitted;

2.4.b

after that paragraph there were inserted—

2.4.b.aa

whether the importation of the goods in increased quantities was or is being
caused by the reduction or elimination of import duty as a result of a free
trade agreement, and

########### Initiation of a bilateral safeguarding investigation

2.5

2.5.1

Paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 (initiation of a safeguarding investigation) is to
be read subject to the following modifications.

2.5.2

Sub-paragraph (1) is to be read as if—

2.5.2.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for “The TRA may initiate” there were
substituted  “The Secretary of State may request that the TRA initiates” ;

2.5.2.b

paragraph (a) were omitted;

2.5.2.c

in paragraph (b)—

2.5.2.c.i

in the words before sub-paragraph (i), for “it is satisfied that the
application contains” there were substituted  “the Secretary of State is
satisfied that there is” ;

2.5.2.c.ii

the “and” at the end of sub-paragraph (i) were omitted;

2.5.2.c.iii

after that sub-paragraph there were inserted—

2.5.2.c.iii.ia

the importation of the goods in increased quantities was or is being caused by
the reduction or elimination of import duty as a result of the relevant free
trade agreement, and

;

2.5.2.d

in paragraph (c)—

2.5.2.d.i

for “the TRA” there were substituted  “the Secretary of State” ;

2.5.2.d.ii

for “application” there were substituted  “request” ;

2.5.2.e

in paragraph (d)—

2.5.2.e.i

for “application”, in both places it appears, there were substituted
“request” ;

2.5.2.e.ii

for “the TRA” there were substituted  “the Secretary of State” .

2.5.3

Sub-paragraph (2) is to be read as if—

2.5.3.a

paragraph (a) were omitted;

2.5.3.b

in paragraph (b), for the words from “in the case” to “the TRA” there were
substituted  “the Secretary of State” .

2.5.4

Sub-paragraph (3) is to be read as if—

2.5.4.a

paragraph (a) were omitted;

2.5.4.b

in paragraph (b), the words “in the case” to “sub-paragraph (1)(a)(ii)” were
omitted.

2.5.5

The remaining provisions of paragraph 7 are to be read as if—

2.5.5.a

in sub-paragraph (4), paragraphs (a) to (d) were omitted;

2.5.5.b

sub-paragraphs (4A) and (5) were omitted;

2.5.5.c

in sub-paragraph (6)—

2.5.5.c.i

for the words before paragraph (a) there were substituted  “Where the
Secretary of State makes a request under sub-paragraph (1) the TRA must—” ;

2.5.5.c.ii

in paragraph (a) the words “accept the application and” were omitted;

2.5.5.c.iii

in paragraph (b), for “of its decision to initiate” substitute  “that it has
initiated” ;

2.5.5.d

sub-paragraph (6A) were omitted;

2.5.5.e

sub-paragraph (8) were omitted.

########### Provisional affirmative determinations and final affirmative or negative determinations

2.6

Paragraph 9 of Schedule 5 (provisional affirmative determinations and final
affirmative or negative determinations) is to be read as if—

2.6.a

in sub-paragraph (1)—

2.6.a.i

the “and” at the end of paragraph (a) were omitted;

2.6.a.ii

after that paragraph there were inserted—

2.6.a.ii.aa

the importation of the goods in increased quantities was or is being caused by
the reduction or elimination of import duty as a result of the relevant free
trade agreement, and

;

2.6.b

sub-paragraph (3) were omitted;

2.6.c

for sub-paragraph (7) there were substituted—

2.6.c.7

Where the TRA makes a final negative determination or final negative
determinations under sub-paragraph (4)—

2.6.c.7.a

the TRA must notify the Secretary of State of the determination or
determinations;

2.6.c.7.b

the Secretary of State must notify interested parties (see paragraph 31(3))
that the Secretary of State will not apply a bilateral safeguarding remedy to
the goods;

2.6.c.7.c

the Secretary of State may produce and publish a report or update in relation
to the investigation;

2.6.c.7.d

the Secretary of State may request that the TRA produces a report or update in
relation to the investigation.

2.6.c.8

Where the Secretary of State makes a request under  sub-paragraph (7) (d) —

2.6.c.8.a

the TRA must produce a report or update (as the case may be) in accordance
with the request, and

2.6.c.8.b

the Secretary of State may publish the report or update (as the case may be).

.

########### Termination of a bilateral safeguarding investigation

2.7

Paragraph 10 of Schedule 5 (termination of a safeguarding investigation) is to
be read as if—

2.7.a

in paragraph (a), for “notice of that determination is published” there were
substituted  “the TRA notifies the Secretary of State of that determination” ;

2.7.b

in paragraph (b), for the words from “notice of that determination” to the end
there were substituted  “the TRA notifies the Secretary of State of its final
affirmative determination in relation to the goods under paragraph 16 (11) (a)
” ;

2.7.c

in paragraph (c), for the words “the notice of rejection” there were
substituted  “notice of a decision of the Secretary of State not to apply a
bilateral safeguarding remedy” .

########### TRA’s duty to recommend provisional measures

2.8

2.8.1

Paragraph 11 of Schedule 5 (TRA’s duty to recommend a provisional safeguarding
amount or provisional tariff rate quota) is to be read as if—

2.8.1.a

in sub-paragraph (3), after paragraph (a) there were inserted—

2.8.1.a.aa

that any reduction in the rate of import duty applicable to all the relevant
goods or to specified relevant goods as a result of the relevant free trade
agreement should be suspended for a specified period (referred to in this
Schedule as a “ provisional suspension of tariff rate reduction ”);

2.8.1.b

for sub-paragraph (9) there were substituted—

2.8.1.b.9

If the TRA determines that there is no recommendation which it could make
under sub-paragraph (3)—

2.8.1.b.9.a

the TRA must notify the Secretary of State of its provisional affirmative
determination in relation to the goods, and

2.8.1.b.9.b

the Secretary of State must notify interested parties (see paragraph 31(3))
that the Secretary of State will not apply a provisional bilateral
safeguarding amount, a provisional suspension of tariff rate reduction or a
provisional tariff rate quota to the goods.

2.8.2

In consequence of the modification made by  sub-paragraph (1) (a) —

2.8.2.a

references in Schedule 5 to paragraphs (a) and (b) of sub-paragraph (3) of
paragraph 11 of that Schedule are to be read as references to paragraphs (a),
(aa) and (b) of that sub-paragraph;

2.8.2.b

references in Schedule 5 to paragraph (a) of that sub-paragraph are to be read
as references to paragraph (a) or (aa) of that sub-paragraph (and accordingly
references to paragraph (a) or (b) of that sub-paragraph are to be read as
references to paragraph (a), (aa) or (b) of that sub-paragraph).

########### TRA’s recommendations about provisional measures

2.9

Paragraph 12 of Schedule 5 (TRA’s recommendations about a provisional
safeguarding amount) is to be read as if, in sub-paragraph (2), for paragraph
(a) there were substituted—

2.9.a

is to be such period as the TRA may determine, having regard to the relevant
free trade agreement, and

2.10

Paragraph 13 of Schedule 5 (TRA’s recommendations regarding provisional tariff
rate quotas) is to be read as if, in sub-paragraph (2), for paragraph (a)
there were substituted—

2.10.a

is to be such period as the TRA may determine, having regard to the relevant
free trade agreement, and

########### TRA’s duty to recommend a definitive measure

2.11

2.11.1

Paragraph 16 of Schedule 5 (TRA’s duty to recommend a definitive safeguarding
amount or tariff rate quota) is to be read as if—

2.11.1.a

in sub-paragraph (3), after paragraph (a) there were inserted—

2.11.1.a.aa

that any reduction in the rate of import duty applicable to all the relevant
goods or to specified relevant goods as a result of the relevant free trade
agreement should be suspended for a specified period (referred to in this
Schedule as a “ definitive suspension of tariff rate reduction ”);

2.11.1.b

sub-paragraphs (5), (6) and (7) were omitted;

2.11.1.c

for sub-paragraph (11) there were substituted—

2.11.1.c.11

If the TRA determines that there is no recommendation which it could make
under sub-paragraph (3)—

2.11.1.c.11.a

the TRA must notify the Secretary of State of its final affirmative
determination in relation to the goods,

2.11.1.c.11.b

the Secretary of State must notify interested parties (see paragraph 31(3))
that the Secretary of State will not apply a definitive safeguarding amount, a
definitive suspension of tariff rate reduction or a tariff rate quota to the
goods.

2.11.2

In consequence of the modification made by  sub-paragraph (1) (a) —

2.11.2.a

references in Schedule 5 to paragraphs (a) and (b) of sub-paragraph (3) of
paragraph 16 of that Schedule are to be read as references to paragraphs (a),
(aa) and (b) of that sub-paragraph;

2.11.2.b

references in Schedule 5 to paragraph (a) of that sub-paragraph are to be read
as references to paragraph (a) or (aa) of that sub-paragraph (and accordingly
references to paragraph (a) or (b) of that sub-paragraph are to be read as
references to paragraph (a), (aa) or (b) of that sub-paragraph).

2.11.3

In consequence of the modification made by  sub-paragraph (1) (b) , paragraph
21 of Schedule 5 (reviews) is to be read as if, in sub-paragraph (3),
paragraph (d) were omitted.

########### TRA’s recommendations about definitive measures

2.12

Paragraph 17 of Schedule 5 (TRA’s recommendations about a definitive
safeguarding amount) is to be read as if—

2.12.a

in sub-paragraph (2), in paragraph (b), for “must not exceed 4 years” there
were substituted  “is to be such period as the TRA may determine, having
regard to the relevant free trade agreement” .

2.12.b

in sub-paragraph (4), paragraph (b) (and the “, and” at the end of paragraph
(a)) were omitted;

2.12.c

after sub-paragraph (5) there were inserted—

2.12.c.5A

In making a recommendation under paragraph 16(3)(a) or (aa), the TRA must have
regard to any provision of the relevant free trade agreement under or by
virtue of which the definitive bilateral safeguarding amount or the definitive
suspension of tariff rate reduction (as the case may be) applicable to goods
is to become progressively smaller as the specified period referred to in
paragraph 16(3)(a) or (aa) (as the case may be) progresses.

;

2.12.d

sub-paragraphs (7) to (10) were omitted.

2.13

Paragraph 18 of Schedule 5 (TRA’s recommendations regarding tariff rate
quotas) is to be read as if—

2.13.a

in sub-paragraph (2), in paragraph (b), for “must not exceed 4 years” there
were substituted  “is to be such period as the TRA may determine, having
regard to the relevant free trade agreement” .

2.13.b

in sub-paragraph (5), paragraph (b) (and the “, and” at the end of paragraph
(a)) were omitted;

2.13.c

after sub-paragraph (6) there were inserted—

2.13.c.6A

In making a recommendation under paragraph 16(3)(b), the TRA must have regard
to any provision of the relevant free trade agreement under or by virtue of
which the amount of import duty applicable to goods subject to the quota is to
become progressively smaller as the specified period referred to in that
paragraph progresses.

2.13.d

sub-paragraphs (7) to (10) were omitted.

########### Meaning of “international dispute decision”

2.14

Paragraph 22 of Schedule 5 (variation or revocation following an international
dispute decision) is to be read as if, in sub-paragraph (6), for paragraph (a)
there were substituted—

2.14.a

a decision under the dispute settlement procedures of the relevant free trade
agreement, or

########### No suspension of bilateral safeguarding remedies

2.15

Paragraph 24 of Schedule 5 (suspension of safeguarding remedies) does not
apply.

########### Exceptions

2.16

Sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph 25 of Schedule 5 (exceptions) does not apply.

########### No restriction on successive safeguarding remedies

2.17

2.17.1

Paragraph 26 of Schedule 5 (restrictions on successive safeguarding remedies)
is to be read as if—

2.17.1.a

in sub-paragraph (2), in the words before paragraph (a), for ““previous
safeguarding remedy”” there were substituted  ““previous bilateral
safeguarding remedy”” ;

2.17.1.b

for sub-paragraphs (3) to (5) there were substituted—

2.17.1.b.3

The Secretary of State may reject the recommendation if—

2.17.1.b.3.a

the relevant free trade agreement contains provision restricting the
circumstances in which a bilateral safeguarding remedy can be applied to goods
to which a previous bilateral safeguarding remedy has been applied, and

2.17.1.b.3.b

the Secretary of State considers that the acceptance of the recommendation
would or might result in a breach of that provision.

########### No interaction with anti-dumping remedies and anti-subsidy remedies

2.18

Paragraph 27 (interaction with anti-dumping remedies and anti-subsidy
remedies) does not apply.

########### Registration

2.19

Schedule 5 applies as if after paragraph 28 (investigations regarding
repayments) there were inserted—

############### Registration

2.19.28A

2.19.28A.1

The Secretary of State may publish a notice of goods—

2.19.28A.1.a

which are the subject of an investigation or other proceedings under provision
made by or under this Schedule, and

2.19.28A.1.b

to which a provisional or definitive bilateral safeguarding amount or a
provisional or definitive suspension of tariff rate reduction may be applied
or the existing application of such an amount or reduction to which may be
varied.

2.19.28A.2

HMRC must register goods in respect of which such a notice is published.

2.19.28A.3

Regulations may make provision for, or in connection with, the registration by
HMRC of the goods—

2.19.28A.3.a

to which a provisional or definitive bilateral safeguarding amount or a
provisional or definitive suspension of tariff rate reduction may be applied,
or

2.19.28A.3.b

the existing application of a provisional or definitive bilateral safeguarding
amount or a provisional or definitive suspension of tariff rate reduction to
which may be varied.

########### Reports and updates by the TRA and Secretary of State

2.20

2.20.1

This paragraph applies where, in accordance with Schedule 5 as applied by this
Schedule—

2.20.1.a

the Secretary of State accepts or rejects a recommendation made by the TRA
under any provision of that Schedule;

2.20.1.b

the TRA determines that there is no recommendation which it could make.

2.20.2

The Secretary of State may—

2.20.2.a

produce and publish a report or update in relation to the bilateral
safeguarding investigation concerned;

2.20.2.b

request that the TRA produces such a report or update.

2.20.3

Where the Secretary of State makes a request under  sub-paragraph (2) (b) —

2.20.3.a

the TRA must produce a report or update (as the case may be) in accordance
with the request, and

2.20.3.b

the Secretary of State may publish the report or update.

########### Secretary of State required to publish notice of decision about whether to apply remedy

2.21

2.21.1

Any provision of Schedule 5 requiring the Secretary of State to publish notice
of a determination of the TRA, of a recommendation under paragraph 11(3)(a),
(aa) or (b) of that Schedule and of the acceptance or rejection of it is to be
read instead as requiring the Secretary of State to publish notice of the
Secretary of State’s decision to apply, or not to apply, a provisional
bilateral safeguarding amount, a provisional suspension of tariff rate
reduction, or a provisional tariff rate quota.

2.21.2

Any provision of Schedule 5 requiring the Secretary of State to publish notice
of a determination of the TRA, of a recommendation under paragraph 16(3)(a),
(aa) or (b) of that Schedule and of the acceptance or rejection of it is to be
read instead as requiring the Secretary of State to publish notice of the
Secretary of State’s decision to apply, or not to apply, a definitive
bilateral safeguarding amount, a definitive suspension of tariff rate
reduction, or a tariff rate quota.

########### Secretary of State not required to lay statements before the House of Commons

2.22

The provisions of Schedule 5 imposing a requirement on the Secretary of State
to lay a statement before the House of Commons do not apply in relation to any
matter concerning a bilateral safeguarding investigation (and accordingly the
Secretary of State is not required to lay such a statement).

########### Interpretation

2.23

2.23.1

Paragraph 31 of Schedule 5 (interpretation) applies subject to  sub-paragraph
(2) .

2.23.2

In Schedule 5 as applied by this Schedule—

2.23.2.a

references to a definitive safeguarding amount are to be read as references to
a definitive bilateral safeguarding amount or a definitive suspension of
tariff rate reduction (as the case may be);

2.23.2.b

references to a provisional safeguarding amount are to be read as references
to a provisional bilateral safeguarding amount or a provisional suspension of
tariff rate reduction (as the case may be);

2.23.2.c

references to a safeguarding investigation are to be read as references to a
bilateral safeguarding investigation;

2.23.2.d

references to a safeguarding remedy are to be read as references to a
bilateral safeguarding remedy.

2.24

For the purposes of this Schedule and of Schedule 5 as applied by this
Schedule—

“ bilateral safeguarding investigation ” means an investigation under
paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 as that provision applies by virtue of this
Schedule; “ bilateral safeguarding remedy ” has the meaning given in paragraph
23(4)(a) of Schedule 5 as that provision applies by virtue of this Schedule; “
definitive bilateral safeguarding amount ” means the additional amount of
import duty mentioned in paragraph 16(3)(a) of Schedule 5 as that provision
applies by virtue of this Schedule. “ definitive suspension of tariff rate
reduction ” has the meaning given in paragraph (aa) of paragraph 16(3) of
Schedule 5 (see  paragraph 11 (1) (a) ); “ free trade agreement ” has the
meaning given in section 5(1) of the Trade Act 2021; “ provisional bilateral
safeguarding amount ” means the additional amount of import duty mentioned in
paragraph (11)(3)(a) of Schedule 5 as that provision applies by virtue of this
Schedule; “ provisional suspension of tariff rate reduction ” has the meaning
given in paragraph (aa) of paragraph 11(3) of Schedule 5 (see  paragraph 8 (1)
(a) ); “ relevant free trade agreement ”, in relation to a bilateral
safeguarding investigation, means the free trade agreement mentioned in
paragraph 6(aa) of Schedule 5 (see  paragraph 4 (b) ).

##### Commencement

3

3.1

Any power to make regulations under or by virtue of this Schedule comes into
force on the day on which this Act is passed.

3.2

The remaining provisions of this Schedule come into force on such day as the
Secretary of State may by regulations appoint.

3.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations make transitional or saving
provision in connection with the coming into force of any provision of this
Schedule.

3.4

The power to make regulations under sub-paragraph (3) includes power to make
different provision for different purposes.

3.5

Regulations under this paragraph are to be made by statutory instrument.

                 Soft drinks industry levy: flavour concentrates

Section 321

##### Introduction

1

Part 2 of FA 2017 (soft drinks industry levy) is amended as follows.

##### Meaning of “soft drink” and “package”

2

2.1

Section 26 (“ soft drink ” and “ package ”) is amended as follows.

2.2

At the end of subsection (1) insert  “;

2.2.c

a liquid flavouring (a “flavour concentrate”) which, when processed in a
specified manner in a dispensing machine, constitutes a beverage within that
paragraph.

2.3

After subsection (2) insert—

2.3.2A

A flavour concentrate is processed in a specified manner if—

2.3.2A.a

it is combined with added sugar ingredients, with or without—

2.3.2A.a.i

artificial sweeteners, or

2.3.2A.a.ii

one or more other flavour concentrates; and

2.3.2A.b

the flavour concentrate (or combination) is prepared in a specified manner.

2.3.2B

A “dispensing machine” is a machine designed to—

2.3.2B.a

combine, process or prepare ingredients so as to produce a beverage, and

2.3.2B.b

supply the beverage directly to a consumer.

2.3.2C

In subsection (2A)(a), “ added sugar ingredients ” means anything within
paragraph (a) or (b) of section 29(2).

2.4

In subsection (3)—

2.4.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (a);

2.4.b

after paragraph (b) insert

and

2.4.b.c

in the case of a soft drink within subsection (1)(c)—

2.4.b.c.i

it is suitable to be consumed when processed in a specified manner in a
dispensing machine (and without any other processing or preparation), and

2.4.b.c.ii

it is ready for use in a dispensing machine;

.

##### Meaning of “prepared drinks”

3

3.1

Section 27 (meaning of “ prepared drink ”) is amended as follows.

3.2

At the end of subsection (1) insert  “;

3.2.c

a beverage that would result from—

3.2.c.i

processing a flavour concentrate within subsection (1)(c) of that section in a
specified manner in a dispensing machine, and

3.2.c.ii

in accordance with the relevant dispensing instructions.

3.3

In subsection (2)(b), for “subsection (3)” substitute  “subsection (3)(a)” .

3.4

After subsection (2) insert—

3.4.2A

The “ relevant dispensing instructions ” means—

3.4.2A.a

the instructions for use of the flavour concentrate provided with, or for the
purposes of use with, the concentrate or a dispensing machine with which it is
designed to be used;

3.4.2A.b

where subsection (3)(b) or (4A) applies, the dispensing instructions
determined by the Commissioners.

3.5

For subsection (3) substitute—

3.5.3

This subsection applies where—

3.5.3.a

in a case within subsection (1)(b), the packaging of the soft drink states
neither the dilution ratio nor information by reference to which the dilution
ratio can be calculated;

3.5.3.b

in a case within subsection (1)(c), no dispensing instructions are provided
with, or for the purposes of use with, the flavour concentrate or with any
dispensing machine with which it is designed to be used.

3.6

After subsection (4) insert—

3.6.4A

This subsection applies where—

3.6.4A.a

dispensing instructions are provided, and

3.6.4A.b

it is reasonable to assume that the main purpose, or one of the main purposes,
of providing those particular dispensing instructions is avoiding or reducing
liability for soft drinks industry levy.

3.7

In subsection (5)—

3.7.a

after paragraph (a) insert—

3.7.a.aa

determining dispensing instructions for the purposes of subsection (2A)(b);

;

3.7.b

for paragraph (b) substitute—

3.7.b.b

determining whether the main purpose, or one of the main purposes, of—

3.7.b.b.i

stating a particular dilution ratio or information, or

3.7.b.b.ii

providing particular dispensing instructions;

is avoiding or reducing liability for soft drinks industry levy.

##### Sugar content condition

4

In section 29 (sugar content condition), in subsection (1)—

4.a

in the words before paragraph (a), omit “it contains”;

4.b

for paragraph (a) (but not the “and” at the end) substitute—

4.b.a

either—

4.b.a.i

it is a soft drink within section 26(1)(c), or

4.b.a.ii

it contains added sugar ingredients;

;

4.c

at the beginning of paragraph (b) insert  “it contains” .

##### Exempt soft drinks

5

In section 30 (exempt soft drinks), in subsection (1)—

5.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (c);

5.b

after paragraph (d) insert  “, and

5.b.e

soft drinks within section 26(1)(c) (flavour concentrates) that meet such
conditions as may be specified.

##### Levy rates

6

After section 36 (levy rates) insert—

######### Determining levy rate for flavour concentrates

6.36A

6.36A.1

This section applies where—

6.36A.1.a

two or more flavour concentrates are formulated so as to be combined with one
another in a dispensing machine (see section 26(2A)(a)(ii)), and

6.36A.1.b

each of those flavour concentrates is a chargeable soft drink.

6.36A.2

The references in section 36(1) to a litre of prepared drink are treated, in
relation to each of the flavour concentrates, as references to the relevant
proportion of a litre of prepared drink.

6.36A.3

Subject to subsection (4), the “relevant proportion” is—

    1 N       where N is the number of flavour concentrates that are designed
to be combined.

6.36A.4

The Commissioners may by regulations make provision for determining the
relevant proportion (otherwise than in accordance with subsection (3)) in
cases where the flavour concentrates mentioned in subsection (1)(a) are
formulated so as to be combined in a dispensing machine—

6.36A.4.a

in unequal proportions, or

6.36A.4.b

in different combinations for different beverages.

##### Tax credits

7

7.1

Section 39 (tax credits) is amended as follows.

7.2

In subsection (1), after paragraph (b) insert

;

7.2.c

in the case of soft drinks within section 26(1)(c), the flavour concentrate—

7.2.c.i

has not been combined with added sugar ingredients (but has been prepared in a
specified manner), or

7.2.c.ii

has been processed in a specified manner so as to result in a beverage that
contains less than 5 grams of sugars per 100 millilitres of prepared drink.

7.3

In subsection (2)(a) for “exported or (as the case may be) lost or destroyed”
substitute  “that fall within subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c) (as the case may
be)” .

##### Commencement

8

The amendments made by this Schedule come into force on 1 April 2023 in
relation to soft drinks that are packaged in, or imported into, the United
Kingdom on or after that date.

                 Reforms of HGV road user levy

Section 325

1

The HGV Road User Levy Act 2013 is amended as follows.

2

In section 1(1) (charge to HGV road user levy), for the words “any heavy goods
vehicle” to the end substitute  “—

2.a

any UK heavy goods vehicle that is used or kept on a road to which this Act
applies by virtue of section 3(1A)(a), and

2.b

any non-UK heavy goods vehicle that is used on a road to which this Act
applies by virtue of section 3(1A)(b).

3

3.1

Section 3 (roads to which this Act applies) is amended as follows.

3.2

For subsection (1) substitute—

3.2.1A

Subject to subsection (2), this Act applies—

3.2.1A.a

in relation to UK heavy goods vehicles, to all public roads in the United
Kingdom, and

3.2.1A.b

in relation to non-UK heavy goods vehicles, to any road which, under the
system for assigning identification numbers to roads administered by the
Secretary of State, Northern Ireland Ministers, Scottish Ministers or Welsh
Ministers, has been assigned a number prefixed by A or M.

3.3

In subsection (2), in the words before paragraph (a), after “may by order
provide” insert  “in respect of UK heavy goods vehicles or non-UK heavy goods
vehicles (or both)” .

3.4

In subsection (4), for “this section” substitute  “subsection (1A)(a)” .

4

In section 5(7) (payment of levy for UK heavy goods vehicles) for “paragraphs
2 to 4 of that Schedule and Tables 2 to 5” substitute  “paragraph 1(3) of that
Schedule and Table 1B” .

5

5.1

Section 6 (payment of levy for non-UK heavy goods vehicles) is amended as
follows.

5.2

In subsection (2)—

5.2.a

omit “or kept”;

5.2.b

after “this Act applies” insert  “by virtue of section 3(1A)(b)” .

5.3

In subsection (9) for “paragraphs 2 to 4 of that Schedule and Tables 2 to 5”
substitute  “paragraph 1(3) of that Schedule and Table 1B” .

6

In section 7(2) (rebate of levy), for paragraph (c) substitute—

6.c

the person who paid the levy notifies the Secretary of State that—

6.c.i

in the case of a UK heavy goods vehicle, the vehicle is not intended to be
used or kept on a road to which this Act applies by virtue of section 3(1A)(a)
at any time during the rest of the levy period, or

6.c.ii

in the case of a non-UK heavy goods vehicle, the vehicle is not intended to be
used on a road to which this Act applies by virtue of section 3(1A)(b) at any
time during the rest of the levy period.

7

In section 11 (offence of using or keeping heavy goods vehicle if levy not
paid), in subsection (1), for the words before paragraph (a) substitute—

If a person uses or keeps a UK heavy goods vehicle on a road to which this Act
applies by virtue of section 3(1A)(a), or uses a non-UK heavy goods vehicle on
a road to which this Act applies by virtue of section 3(1A)(b), on a day in
respect of which the HGV road user levy charged in respect of the vehicle has
not been paid—

.

8

8.1

Section 14 (register of levy paid or due to be paid) is amended as follows.

8.2

In subsection (1), for “must” substitute  “may” .

8.3

After subsection (1) insert—

8.3.1A

Subsections (2) to (5) apply in relation to any register set up and kept under
subsection (1).

8.4

In subsection (4), at the end insert  “but need not be accessible to all
members of the public” .

9

In section 19 (interpretation), in subsection (1), in the definition of
“revenue weight”, at the end insert  “, subject to paragraph 5(2) of Schedule
1” .

10

10.1

Schedule 1 (rates of HGV road user levy) is amended as follows.

10.2

In paragraph 1, for sub-paragraph (3) substitute—

10.2.3

Table 1B sets out the Bands for the purposes of Tables 1 and 1A (and those
Bands depend on the revenue weight of the vehicle).

10.3

Omit paragraphs 2 to 4.

10.4

In paragraph 5—

10.4.a

the existing text becomes sub-paragraph (1);

10.4.b

in that sub-paragraph, in paragraph (a)—

10.4.b.i

omit ““axle”, ”;

10.4.b.ii

omit “and “tractive unit” each”;

10.4.c

after that sub-paragraph insert—

10.4.c.2

For the purposes of this Schedule—

10.4.c.2.a

in calculating the revenue weight of a rigid goods vehicle drawing a trailer
weighing less than 4,000 kilograms, the weight of the trailer is to be
ignored;

10.4.c.2.b

in calculating the revenue weight of a rigid goods vehicle drawing a trailer
weighing 4,000 kilograms or more, the weight of the trailer is to be added to
the revenue weight of the vehicle.

10.5

For Table 1 substitute—

                                   TABLE 1: VEHICLES MEETING EURO 6 EMISSIONS
STANDARDS — RATES FOR EACH BAND
Band Daily rate Weekly rate Monthly rate Half-yearly rate Yearly rate
A £3.00 £7.50 £15.00 £90.00 £150.00 B £7.20 £18.00 £36.00 £216.00 £360.00 C
£9.00 £28.80 £57.60 £345.60 £576.00

.

10.6

For Table 1A substitute—

                                   TABLE 1A: VEHICLES NOT MEETING EURO 6
EMISSIONS STANDARDS — RATES FOR EACH BAND
Band Daily rate Weekly rate Monthly rate Half-yearly rate Yearly rate
A £3.90 £9.75 £19.50 £117.00 £195.00 B £9.36 £23.40 £46.80 £280.80 £468.00 C
£10.00 £37.45 £74.90 £449.40 £749.00

.

10.7

After Table 1A insert—

                                   TABLE 1B: BANDS FOR THE PURPOSES OF TABLES
1 AND 1A
Revenue weight of vehicle Band                                       More than
11,999kgs but not more than 31,000kgs A More than 31,000kgs but not more than
38,000kgs B More than 38,000kgs C

.

10.8

Omit Tables 2 to 5.

11

11.1

In consequence of the amendments made by paragraph 10, in Part 8 of Schedule 1
to VERA 1994 (annual rates of duty: goods vehicles), paragraph 10 (relevant
rigid goods vehicles) is amended as follows.

11.2

After sub-paragraph (2) insert—

11.2.2A

In this paragraph, references to “the tables” are to the tables mentioned in
sub-paragraph (6).

11.3

In sub-paragraph (3)—

11.3.a

in the opening words omit “following”;

11.3.b

in paragraph (c), for “appropriate HGV road user levy band” substitute
“vehicle excise duty band” .

11.4

For sub-paragraph (5) substitute—

11.4.5A

The “ vehicle excise duty band ” in relation to a vehicle is determined in
accordance with the following table—

       Revenue weight of vehicle 2 axle vehicle 3 axle vehicle 4 or more axle
vehicle Exceeding Not exceeding
kgs kgs Band Band Band 11,999 15,000 B(T) B(T) B(T) 15,000 21,000 D(T) B(T)
B(T) 21,000 23,000 E(T) C(T) B(T) 23,000 25,000 E(T) D(T) C(T) 25,000 27,000
E(T) D(T) D(T) 27,000 44,000 E(T) E(T) E(T)

.

11.5

In each of the tables after sub-paragraph (6), in the headings to column 1,
for “Appropriate HGV road user levy band” substitute  “Vehicle excise duty
band” .

12

The amendments made by this Schedule come into force on 1 August 2023.

                 Freeports and investment zones: consequential amendments

Sections 331 and 332

##### FA 2003

1

Part 4 of FA 2003 (stamp duty land tax) is amended as follows.

2

In section 61A—

2.a

in subsection (1), for “freeport tax site” substitute  “special tax site” ,

2.b

in subsection (5)(a), for “14 October 2027” substitute  “the period of one
year and 14 days beginning with the end of the applicable sunset date in
relation to the special tax site in which the transaction land is situated” ,

2.c

in subsection (6), for the words from ““freeport tax site”” to the end
substitute  ““ special tax site ” means an area for the time being designated
under section 113 of the Finance Act 2021” , and

2.d

in the heading, for “freeport tax sites” substitute  “special tax sites” .

3

In section 81—

3.a

in subsection (1A)(aa), for “freeport tax sites” substitute  “special tax
sites” , and

3.b

in subsection (1B)(eb)—

3.b.i

for “freeport tax sites” substitute  “special tax sites” , and

3.b.ii

for “qualifying freeport land” substitute  “qualifying land” .

4

In section 81ZA—

4.a

in subsection (1), for “freeport tax sites” substitute  “special tax sites” ,
and

4.b

in subsection (3)(c), for “qualifying freeport land” substitute  “qualifying
land” .

5

In section 85(3), for “freeport tax sites” substitute  “special tax sites” .

6

In section 86(2)(zb) and (2A), for “freeport tax sites” substitute  “special
tax sites” .

7

In section 87(3)(azaa) and (azab), for “freeport tax sites” substitute
“special tax sites” .

8

In Schedule 6C—

8.a

for paragraph 2 and the italic heading before it substitute—

########### Qualifying land

8.a.2

For the purposes of this Schedule, transaction land is “qualifying land” if,
on the effective date of the transaction—

8.a.2.a

it is situated in a special tax site, and

8.a.2.b

the purchaser intends it to be used exclusively in a qualifying manner.

,

8.b

for “qualifying freeport land”, in each place (other than paragraph 2),
substitute  “qualifying land” ,

8.c

for “freeport tax site”, in each place, substitute  “special tax site” ,

8.d

in paragraph 7—

8.d.i

in sub-paragraph (2), for “(“the freeport consideration”)” substitute  “(“the
relevant consideration”)” , and

8.d.ii

in sub-paragraphs (3) and (4), for “the freeport consideration” substitute
“the relevant consideration” , and

8.e

in the heading, for “freeport tax sites” substitute  “special tax sites” .

##### CAA 2001

9

CAA 2001 is amended as follows.

10

In section 3—

10.a

in subsection (2ZZA), for “freeport tax sites” substitute  “special tax sites”
, and

10.b

in subsection (2ZA)(b), for “freeport qualifying expenditure” substitute
“special tax site qualifying expenditure” .

11

In the following provisions of Part 2 (plant and machinery allowances)—

11.a

section 39,

11.b

sections 45O to 45R,

11.c

section 46(1), and

11.d

section 52(3),

for “freeport tax site” and for “ freeport tax sites ” (in each place)
substitute  “special tax site”  and  “special tax sites”  respectively.

12

In section 45Q—

12.a

in subsection (1)(b), for “the “non-freeport part” of” substitute  “the “non-
qualifying part” of” , and

12.b

in subsections (2) and (3), for “non-freeport part” substitute  “non-
qualifying part” .

13

In the following provisions of Part 2A (structures and building allowances)—

13.a

section 270AA,

13.b

Chapter 2A,

13.c

section 270IA(5),

for “freeport qualifying expenditure”, in each place, substitute  “special tax
site qualifying expenditure” .

14

In the following provisions of that Part—

14.a

section 270BJ(2A), and

14.b

Chapter 2A,

for “freeport tax site”, in each place, substitute  “special tax site” .

15

For section 573A substitute—

######### Special tax sites

15.573A

In this Act “ special tax site ” means an area for the time being designated
under section 113 of FA 2021.

16

In Part 2 of Schedule 1—

16.a

omit the definition of “freeport tax site”, and

16.b

at the appropriate place insert—

                                          special tax site section 573A

##### FA 2021

17

Part 4 of FA 2021 is amended as follows.

18

In the italic heading before section 113 at the end insert  “and investment
zones” .

19

In the heading for section 113 (designation of freeport tax sites), for
“freeport tax sites” substitute  “special tax sites” .

##### National Insurance Contributions Act 2022

20

The National Insurance Contributions Act 2022 is amended as follows.

21

In the italic heading before section 1, for “Freeports” substitute  “Special
tax sites” .

22

In section 1—

22.a

in subsections (1)(b) and (6), for “freeport conditions” substitute
“applicable conditions” , and

22.b

in the heading, for “freeport tax sites” substitute  “special tax sites” .

23

In section 2—

23.a

in subsection (1)—

23.a.i

for “The freeport conditions” substitute  “The applicable conditions” ,

23.a.ii

in paragraph (a)(ii), for “5 April 2026” substitute  “the applicable sunset
date” , and

23.a.iii

in paragraph (d), for “freeport tax site” substitute  “special tax site” ,

23.b

after subsection (2) insert—

23.b.2A

For the purposes of this section “ the applicable sunset date ”, in relation
to a special tax site, means —

23.b.2A.a

5 April 2026, or

23.b.2A.b

such later date as may be specified under  section 332 (4) (b)  of the Finance
(No.2) Act 2023 as the applicable sunset date in relation to the site
concerned for the purposes of the provisions mentioned in subsection  (4)  of
that section.

,

23.c

in subsection (4)(b), for “freeport tax site” substitute  “special tax site” ,

23.d

for subsection (6) substitute—

23.d.6

The relevant end date is the last day of the period of three years beginning
with the day after the applicable sunset date.

, and

23.e

in the heading, for “Freeport conditions” substitute  “Applicable conditions”
.

24

In section 3—

24.a

omit subsection (1),

24.b

in subsection (2), for “a freeport” substitute  “an applicable” ,

24.c

in subsection (3), for “freeport” substitute  “applicable” , and

24.d

in the heading, for “Freeport conditions” substitute  “Applicable conditions”
.

25

In section 5, in the heading, for “freeport tax sites” substitute  “special
tax sites” .

26

In section 12(2), omit paragraph (a).

27

In section 13(2)—

27.a

omit the definition of “freeport tax site”, and

27.b

at the end insert—

                                             “ special tax site ” has the
meaning given by section 113 of the Finance Act 2021 (designation of special
tax sites).

                 Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme: exemptions from tax

Section 346

##### Income tax and corporation tax

1

1.1

No liability to income tax or corporation tax arises in respect of a payment
which is made by a local authority to a person (“ S ”) by reason of S—

1.1.a

being an approved sponsor under the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme, and

1.1.b

providing accommodation to a person granted entry clearance or permission to
stay under that scheme.

1.2

This paragraph  has effect in relation to payments made on or after 14 March
2022.

##### Annual tax on enveloped dwellings

2

2.1

Part 3 of FA 2013 (annual tax on enveloped dwellings) is modified as follows.

2.2

That Part has effect as if after section 133 there were inserted—

########### Deemed property rental business: Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme

2.2.133A

2.2.133A.1

A day in a chargeable period (“day X”) is to be treated as relievable in
relation to a single-dwelling interest by virtue of section 133(1) (property
rental business) if (ignoring this section) day X is not relievable by virtue
of any of the provisions listed in section 132(3) and—

2.2.133A.1.a

in a case where the day immediately before day X was relievable in relation to
a single-dwelling interest by virtue of section 133(1) (including by virtue of
this section), Condition A or B is met in relation the dwelling on day X, or

2.2.133A.1.b

in a case where the day immediately before day X was not relievable in
relation to a single-dwelling interest by virtue of section 133(1), Condition
A is met in relation to the dwelling on day X.

2.2.133A.2

For the purposes of subsection (1)—

2.2.133A.2.a

Condition A is that the dwelling is exclusively occupied by an individual (or
individuals) granted entry clearance, or permission to stay, under the Homes
for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme;

2.2.133A.2.b

Condition B is that reasonable steps are being taken to secure that the
dwelling will, without undue delay, be so occupied.

2.2.133A.3

A day is not relievable by virtue of this section in the case of a single-
dwelling interest if on that day a non-qualifying individual is permitted to
occupy the dwelling.

2.2.133A.4

In subsection (2)(b), “ without undue delay ” means without delay except so
far as delay is justified by commercial considerations or cannot be avoided.

2.3

Section 138 (property developers) has effect as if for subsection (2) there
were substituted—

2.3.2

If the property developer holds an interest for the purpose mentioned in
subsection (1)(b), any additional purpose the property developer may have of—

2.3.2.a

exploiting the interest as a source of rents or other receipts in the course
of a qualifying property rental business (after developing the land and before
reselling it), or

2.3.2.b

permitting an individual granted entry clearance, or permission to stay, under
the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme to occupy the dwelling,

is treated as not being a separate purpose in applying the test in subsection
(1)(b).

2.4

Section 141 (property traders) has effect as if, after subsection (2), there
were inserted—

2.4.2A

If the person holds an interest for the purpose mentioned in subsection
(1)(b), any additional purpose the person may have of permitting an
individual, other than a non-qualifying individual, who is granted entry
clearance, or permission to stay, under the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship
Scheme to occupy the dwelling is treated as not being a separate purpose in
applying the test in subsection (1)(b).

2.5

Section 174 (general interpretation) has effect as if, in subsection (1), at
the appropriate place, there were inserted—

                                             “ the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme ” means the scheme contained in paragraphs UKR 11.1 to UKR
20.2 of Appendix Ukraine Scheme to the immigration rules (within the meaning
of the Immigration Act 1971);

.

2.6

The modifications made by  this paragraph  have effect in relation to days
falling in the period—

2.6.a

beginning with 1 April 2022, and

2.6.b

ending with such date as may be specified in regulations made by the Treasury
by statutory instrument.

##### Stamp duty land tax

3

3.1

Schedule 4A to FA 2003 (stamp duty land tax: higher rate for certain
transactions) is modified as follows.

3.2

Paragraph 5 (businesses of letting, trading in or redeveloping properties) has
effect as if after sub-paragraph (2) there were inserted—

3.2.2A

In determining whether a chargeable interest has been acquired exclusively for
one or more of those purposes, any intention to permit an individual, other
than a non-qualifying individual, who is granted entry clearance, or
permission to stay, under the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme to occupy
any dwelling on the land is to be ignored.

3.3

In paragraph 5G (withdrawal of relief allowed under paragraph 5), sub-
paragraph (4) has effect as if—

3.3.a

the words from “because of a change of circumstances” to the end become
paragraph (a);

3.3.b

after that paragraph there were inserted—

3.3.b.b

any dwelling on the land is occupied by an individual granted entry clearance,
or permission to stay, under the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme, or

3.3.b.c

the purchaser is taking reasonable steps to ensure that any dwelling on the
land will be so occupied without delay (except so far as delay may be
justified by commercial considerations or cannot be avoided)

;

3.4

Paragraph 9 (interpretation) has effect as if, at the appropriate place, there
were inserted—

                                             “ the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme ” means the scheme contained in paragraphs UKR 11.1 to UKR
20.2 of Appendix Ukraine Scheme to the immigration rules (within the meaning
of the Immigration Act 1971);

.

3.5

The modification made by  sub-paragraph (2)  has effect in relation to any
land transaction the effective date of which is in the period—

3.5.a

beginning with 31 March 2022, and

3.5.b

ending with such date as may be specified in regulations made by the Treasury
by statutory instrument.

3.6

The modifications made by  sub-paragraph (3)  and  (4)  have effect in
relation to any time in the period mentioned in  sub-paragraph (5) .

##### Regulations

4

A statutory instrument containing regulations under the following provisions
of this Schedule may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been
laid before, and approved by a resolution of, the House of Commons—

4.a

paragraph 2 (6) (b) ;

4.b

paragraph 3 (5) (b) .

