Title: Genetic Technology (Precision Breeding) Act 2023
Date: 2023-03-31
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/6

## Genetic Technology (Precision Breeding) Act 2023

                                                   B e it enacted  by the
King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords
Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and
by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Precision breeding: definitions

#### Precision bred organism

1

1.1

In this Act “ precision bred organism ” means a precision bred plant or a
precision bred animal.

1.2

For the purposes of this Act an organism is “precision bred” if—

1.2.a

any feature of its genome results from the application of modern
biotechnology,

1.2.b

every feature of its genome that results from the application of modern
biotechnology is stable,

1.2.c

every feature of its genome that results from the application of modern
biotechnology could have resulted from traditional processes, whether or not
in conjunction with selection techniques, alone, and

1.2.d

its genome does not contain any feature that results from the application of
any artificial modification technique other than modern biotechnology.

1.3

In this Act “ modern biotechnology ” means any technique mentioned in
regulation 5(1)(a) or (b) of the Genetically Modified Organisms (Deliberate
Release) Regulations 2002 ( S.I. 2002/2443 ).

1.4

A feature of an organism’s genome is “stable” if it is capable of being
propagated whenever the organism is reproduced, whether by sexual or asexual
reproduction.

1.5

In determining whether a feature of an organism’s genome could have resulted
from traditional processes, no account is to be taken of—

1.5.a

the copy number of the feature,

1.5.b

its epigenetic status, or

1.5.c

its location in the genome.

1.6

In  this section  “ traditional processes ” means—

1.6.a

in relation to plants—

1.6.a.i

sexual fertilisation,

1.6.a.ii

spontaneous mutation,

1.6.a.iii

in vitro fertilisation,

1.6.a.iv

polyploidy induction,

1.6.a.v

embryo rescue,

1.6.a.vi

grafting,

1.6.a.vii

induced mutagenesis, or

1.6.a.viii

somatic hybridisation or cell fusion of plant cells of organisms which are
capable of exchanging genetic material by a process within sub-paragraphs  (i)
to  (vii) ;

1.6.b

in relation to animals—

1.6.b.i

sexual fertilisation,

1.6.b.ii

spontaneous mutation,

1.6.b.iii

artificial insemination,

1.6.b.iv

in vitro fertilisation,

1.6.b.v

embryo transfer,

1.6.b.vi

polyploidy induction, or

1.6.b.vii

recovery and transfer of primordial germ cells.

1.7

An “ artificial modification technique ” means any technique by which genes or
other genetic material can be artificially modified within the meaning of Part
6 of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 (as it has effect from time to
time).

1.8

If the category of techniques by which, or circumstances in which, genes or
other genetic material are taken to be, or not to be, artificially modified
for the purposes of Part 6 of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 changes by
virtue of—

1.8.a

regulation 5 of the Genetically Modified Organisms (Deliberate Release)
Regulations 2002 ( S.I. 2002/2443 ) being modified, or

1.8.b

regulations being made under subsection (4B) or (4C) of section 106 of the
Environmental Protection Act 1990,

regulations may modify  this section  so as to make corresponding changes
(with or without variation) to the definition of “modern biotechnology”.

1.9

Regulations under subsection  (8)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

1.10

An organism to which  subsection (11)  applies does not fail to be precision
bred merely because it does not meet the condition in  subsection (2) (d) .

1.11

This subsection  applies to an organism which, for the purposes of Part 6 of
the Environmental Protection Act 1990, is to be taken not to be a genetically
modified organism by virtue of—

1.11.a

paragraph (3) of the regulation referred to in  subsection (8) (a) , or

1.11.b

regulations under subsection (4C) of section 106 of that Act.

#### Meaning of “plant” and “animal”

2

2.1

In this Act “ plant ” means an organism in the taxonomic group—

2.1.a

Archaeplastida, or

2.1.b

Phaeophyceae.

2.2

In this Act “ animal ” means an organism in the taxonomic group Metazoa, other
than a human (or a human admixed embryo).

2.3

In subsections  (1)  and  (2) , references to an organism—

2.3.a

include an embryo and all subsequent developmental stages of the organism;

2.3.b

in the case of a plant, also include a seed or a vegetative propagule;

2.3.c

do not include a gamete.

2.4

In this Act “gamete”—

2.4.a

does not include an egg that is in the process of fertilisation or is
undergoing any other process capable of resulting in an embryo, but

2.4.b

otherwise includes a mature germ cell capable of initiating fusion with a germ
cell of the opposite sex.

2.5

In this section—

                           “ embryo ” includes an egg that is in the process
of fertilisation or is undergoing any other process capable of resulting in an
embryo;
“ human ” includes a human embryo and all subsequent developmental stages of a
human;
“ human admixed embryo ” has the same meaning as it has in the Human
Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990 by virtue of section 4A(6) and (11) of
that Act.

### Precision bred organisms: release, marketing and risk assessments

#### Release

##### Restrictions on release of precision bred organism in England

3

3.1

A person who has a precision bred organism under their control must not
release the organism in England unless—

3.1.a

the following apply—

3.1.a.i

the notification requirements are satisfied in relation to the release (see
section  4 ),

3.1.a.ii

the person is a person specified in the release notice under section  4 (2) ,
and

3.1.a.iii

the release is carried out in accordance with the release notice, or

3.1.b

the organism is—

3.1.b.i

a marketable precision bred organism (see section  5 (2) ), or

3.1.b.ii

the qualifying progeny of a marketable precision bred organism (see section
24 ).

3.2

For the purposes of this Act an organism is under a person’s “control” if the
person keeps it contained by measures designed to—

3.2.a

limit its contact with humans and the environment, and

3.2.b

prevent or minimise the risk of adverse effects as regards the health of
humans or the environment.

3.3

For the purposes of this section and section  4 , a person “releases” an
organism under their control by deliberately causing or permitting it to—

3.3.a

cease to be under their control or the control of anyone else, and

3.3.b

enter the environment.

##### Release of precision bred organism: notification requirements

4

4.1

The notification requirements are satisfied in relation to the release of an
organism if—

4.1.a

a person has given a notice (a “release notice”) to the Secretary of State in
relation to the release, accompanied by—

4.1.a.i

any required information (see subsection  (3) (b) ), and

4.1.a.ii

any fee required by regulations under section  39 , and

4.1.b

any minimum period prescribed by regulations has elapsed since paragraph  (a)
was satisfied.

4.2

A release notice must specify one or more persons, or descriptions of person,
in relation to the release. 

4.3

Regulations may—

4.3.a

make provision about the form and content of a release notice (but subject to
subsection  (2) );

4.3.b

prescribe information which must accompany a release notice (“required
information”).

4.4

Regulations under subsection  (3)  may, in particular, prescribe whom a person
may specify under subsection  (2)  when giving a release notice.

4.5

For the meaning of “release” see section  3 (3) .

4.6

Regulations under  subsection (1) (b)  are subject to the negative procedure.

4.7

Regulations under subsection  (3)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

#### Marketing

##### Restrictions on marketing of precision bred organism in England

5

5.1

A person must not market a precision bred organism in England unless—

5.1.a

it is a marketable precision bred organism, or

5.1.b

it is the qualifying progeny of a marketable precision bred organism.

5.2

In this Act “ marketable precision bred organism ” means a precision bred
organism in respect of which—

5.2.a

a precision bred confirmation is in force, and

5.2.b

if it is a relevant animal, a precision bred animal marketing authorisation is
in force.

5.3

For the purposes of this Act—

5.3.a

a precision bred organism is “marketed” by a person when products consisting
of or including—

5.3.a.i

the precision bred organism, or

5.3.a.ii

its gametes,

are made available to other persons, whether or not for consideration, and

5.3.b

the marketing occurs in England so far as those products are made available
for delivery in England.

5.4

For provision about the following terms used in subsections  (1)  and  (2)
see—

qualifying progeny section  24 precision bred confirmation section  8 (1) (a)
(i) relevant animal section  10 precision bred animal marketing authorisation
section  13 (1) .

5.5

For the purposes of subsection  (2) , a precision bred confirmation or
precision bred animal marketing authorisation is “in force” if it has been
issued and not revoked, and, in the case of an authorisation, is not
suspended.

#### Precision bred confirmation

##### Application for precision bred confirmation

6

6.1

A person (the “notifier”) may apply for a precision bred confirmation in
relation to an organism by giving a notice (a “marketing notice”) to the
Secretary of State.

6.2

Regulations may—

6.2.a

make provision about the form and content of a marketing notice, and

6.2.b

prescribe information which must accompany a marketing notice (“required
information”).

6.3

As soon as practicable after receiving—

6.3.a

a marketing notice,

6.3.b

any required information, and

6.3.c

any fee prescribed by regulations under section  39 ,

the Secretary of State must refer the marketing notice to the advisory
committee (see section  22 (1) ) by sending the committee the marketing notice
and any required information that accompanied it.

6.4

Regulations under subsection  (2)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Report by advisory committee

7

7.1

This section applies where the Secretary of State refers a marketing notice to
the advisory committee.

7.2

Within 90 days after the marketing notice is referred to it, the advisory
committee must provide a report to the Secretary of State stating—

7.2.a

whether it considers the organism to be precision bred, and

7.2.b

its reasons for reaching that conclusion.

7.3

Before the end of that period, the committee may by notice (“an information
notice”) request the notifier to provide further information to the committee.

7.4

The committee’s report to the Secretary of State must be accompanied by any
information provided to the committee as the result of an information notice.

7.5

Subsection  (2)  is subject to regulations under section  23 .

##### Issue of precision bred confirmation

8

8.1

As soon as practicable after receiving a report from the advisory committee
under  section 7 (2) , the Secretary of State must—

8.1.a

if satisfied that the organism is precision bred—

8.1.a.i

issue a statement to that effect (a “precision bred confirmation”), and

8.1.a.ii

give notice of it to the notifier;

8.1.b

if not satisfied, give notice to the notifier of that fact.

8.2

A notice under subsection  (1) (b)  must state the reasons for not issuing a
precision bred confirmation.

##### Revocation of precision bred confirmation

9

9.1

Regulations may make provision conferring power on the Secretary of State to
revoke a precision bred confirmation relating to an organism if the Secretary
of State is no longer satisfied that the organism is precision bred.

9.2

Regulations made under this section must make provision—

9.2.a

for the procedure that is to be followed where the Secretary of State proposes
to revoke a precision bred confirmation, which must include provision for—

9.2.a.i

requiring notice of a proposal to revoke a precision bred confirmation to be
published in any way that the Secretary of State considers appropriate to
bring it to the attention of those affected by it, and

9.2.a.ii

permitting persons affected by the proposal to make representations about it;

9.2.b

about the consequences of revoking a precision bred confirmation;

9.2.c

for prescribed information to be included in the register (see section  18 ).

9.3

Provision made by virtue of subsection  (2) (b)  must secure that the
following are treated as revoked by the revocation of a precision bred
confirmation relating to an organism—

9.3.a

a precision bred animal marketing authorisation relating to the organism;

9.3.b

any marketing authorisation issued under regulations under Part  3  that was
issued in reliance, for the purposes of any requirement imposed by virtue of
section  26 (3) (a) , on the organism being a marketable precision bred
organism.

9.4

Regulations under this section may confer a function on the advisory
committee.

9.5

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Relevant animals: precision bred animal marketing authorisation

##### Meaning of “relevant animal”

10

10.1

In this Act “ relevant animal ” means an animal which is a vertebrate.

10.2

If the definition of “animal” in the Animal Welfare Act 2006 is extended for
any purposes by virtue of section 1(3) of that Act to include invertebrates of
any description, regulations may amend subsection  (1)  to extend the
definition of “relevant animal” so as to include invertebrates of that
description.

10.3

In this section, “vertebrate” and “invertebrate” have the meanings given by
section 1(5) of the Animal Welfare Act 2006.

10.4

Regulations under subsection  (2)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Application for precision bred animal marketing authorisation

11

11.1

This section applies where a marketing notice is or has been given to the
Secretary of State in relation to a relevant animal.

11.2

The notifier may apply to the Secretary of State for a precision bred animal
marketing authorisation in relation to the relevant animal.

11.3

An application under this section must include a declaration that the notifier
does not expect the health or welfare of the relevant animal or its qualifying
progeny to be adversely affected (see section  25 ) by any precision bred
trait (“an animal welfare declaration”).

11.4

An application under this section must be accompanied by—

11.4.a

an assessment of the risks to the health or welfare of the relevant animal or
its qualifying progeny which could reasonably be expected to result from any
precision bred trait,

11.4.b

an explanation of the steps that the notifier has taken to identify the traits
and risks mentioned in  paragraph (a) ,

11.4.c

any required information (see subsection  (5) (b) ), and

11.4.d

any fee prescribed by regulations under section  39 .

11.5

Regulations may—

11.5.a

make provision about the form and content of—

11.5.a.i

an application under this section (but subject to subsection  (3) ), or

11.5.a.ii

any document required under subsection  (4) (a)  or  (b) ;

11.5.b

prescribe any further information which must accompany the application (“the
required information”).

11.6

After receiving an application under this section accompanied by everything
required by subsection  (4) , the Secretary of State must refer the
application to the welfare advisory body (see section  22 (3) ) by sending the
body the application and the documents and information provided under
subsection  (4) (a)  to  (c) .

This is subject to subsection  (8) .

11.7

The Secretary of State must refer the application—

11.7.a

as soon as practicable, if a precision breeding confirmation has already been
issued in relation to the relevant animal;

11.7.b

otherwise, at any time before, or as soon as practicable after, such a
confirmation is issued.

11.8

The duty to refer the application does not apply if, before referring it, the
Secretary of State decides not to issue a precision breeding confirmation in
relation to the relevant animal.

11.9

Regulations may prescribe circumstances in which an application for a
precision bred animal marketing authorisation in relation to a relevant animal
may be made by a person other than the notifier (and in those cases references
to the notifier, in relation to the marketing authorisation and an application
for it, are to be read as references to that person).

11.10

Regulations under subsection  (5)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

11.11

Regulations under subsection  (9)  are subject to the negative procedure.

##### Report by welfare advisory body

12

12.1

This section applies where the Secretary of State refers an application for a
precision bred animal marketing authorisation to the welfare advisory body.

12.2

Before the end of the reporting period, the welfare advisory body must provide
a report to the Secretary of State stating—

12.2.a

whether the notifier, in making the animal welfare declaration, has had regard
to—

12.2.a.i

the traits identified by the notifier as precision bred traits, and

12.2.a.ii

the risks identified by the notifier as risks to the health or welfare of the
animal or its qualifying progeny that could reasonably be expected to result
from those traits,

12.2.b

whether the notifier has taken reasonable steps to identify those traits and
risks and has made an appropriate assessment of those risks, and

12.2.c

the reasons for its conclusions on the matters referred to in paragraphs  (a)
and  (b) .

12.3

In this section, the “ reporting period ” means a period specified in
regulations beginning with the day on which the application was referred to
the body.

12.4

Before the end of the reporting period, the body may by notice (“an
information notice”) request the notifier to provide further information to
the body.

12.5

The body’s report to the Secretary of State must be accompanied by any
information provided to the body as the result of an information notice.

12.6

Subsections  (2)  and  (3)  are subject to regulations under section  23 .

12.7

Regulations under subsection  (3)  are subject to the negative procedure.

##### Issue of precision bred animal marketing authorisation

13

13.1

As soon as practicable after receiving a report from the welfare advisory body
under  section 12 (2)  in relation to a relevant animal, the Secretary of
State must—

13.1.a

decide whether to issue a precision bred animal marketing authorisation in
respect of the relevant animal,

13.1.b

issue the authorisation if the decision is to do so, and

13.1.c

notify the notifier—

13.1.c.i

of the decision, and

13.1.c.ii

if the decision is not to issue an authorisation, of the reasons for the
decision.

13.2

The Secretary of State may issue a precision bred animal marketing
authorisation only if satisfied—

13.2.a

that the notifier, in making the animal welfare declaration, has had regard
to—

13.2.a.i

the traits identified by the notifier as precision bred traits, and

13.2.a.ii

the risks identified by the notifier as risks to the health or welfare of the
animal or its qualifying progeny that could reasonably be expected to result
from those traits, and

13.2.b

that the notifier has taken reasonable steps to identify those traits and
risks and has made an appropriate assessment of those risks.

#### Protection of relevant animals following issue of marketing authorisation

##### Precision bred animal marketing authorisations: reporting obligations

14

14.1

Regulations may make provision for requiring the notifier or any other
prescribed person—

14.1.a

to provide the Secretary of State with prescribed information about the health
or welfare of any animal within subsection  (2) ;

14.1.b

to take prescribed steps, in connection with supplying such an animal to
another person, to secure that prescribed information about the subsequent
health or welfare of—

14.1.b.i

that animal, or

14.1.b.ii

any of its progeny within subsection  (2) ,

is provided by, or can be collected from, that other person.

14.2

An animal is within this subsection if it is—

14.2.a

a relevant animal to which a precision bred animal marketing authorisation
relates, or

14.2.b

its qualifying progeny.

14.3

Regulations under this section may provide for requirements to apply to
information about the health or welfare of a relevant animal or its qualifying
progeny during periods—

14.3.a

prescribed by the regulations, or

14.3.b

determined by the Secretary of State in particular cases.

14.4

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Suspension and revocation of precision bred animal marketing authorisation

15

15.1

Regulations may make provision for the Secretary of State—

15.1.a

to suspend a precision bred animal marketing authorisation where the Secretary
of State receives information (whether by virtue of section  14  or otherwise)
relating to the health or welfare of the relevant animal or its qualifying
progeny;

15.1.b

to revoke a precision bred animal marketing authorisation where, in
consequence of such information, the Secretary of State considers the health
or welfare of the relevant animal or its qualifying progeny likely to be
adversely affected by precision bred traits (see section  25 );

15.1.c

to suspend or revoke a precision bred animal marketing authorisation where
there has been a failure by any person to comply with regulations under
section  14 .

15.2

Regulations made under this section must make provision—

15.2.a

for the procedure to be followed where the Secretary of State proposes to
suspend or revoke a precision bred animal marketing authorisation, which must
include provision for the following, except in urgent cases—

15.2.a.i

requiring notice of the proposal to be published in any way that the Secretary
of State considers appropriate to bring it to the attention of those affected
by it;

15.2.a.ii

permitting persons affected by the proposal to make representations about it;

15.2.b

about the consequences of suspending or revoking a precision bred animal
marketing authorisation;

15.2.c

for prescribed information to be included in the register (see  section 18 ).

15.3

Regulations under this section may confer a function on the welfare advisory
body.

15.4

Nothing in this section affects the power for regulations under Part  4  to
make provision in relation to a failure to comply with regulations under
section  14 .

15.5

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Reviews and appeals relating to Part 

##### Reviews and appeals relating to Part 

16

16.1

Regulations must make provision for reviews of and appeals against decisions
under this Part.

16.2

The regulations must, in particular, in relation to each of the decisions
mentioned in subsection  (3) —

16.2.a

secure that any person prescribed by the regulations may—

16.2.a.i

require the Secretary of State to review the decision, and

16.2.a.ii

if not satisfied with the outcome of any such review, appeal against the
decision,

16.2.b

secure that the grounds on which a review may be required or an appeal brought
include the following—

16.2.b.i

that the decision was based on an error of fact,

16.2.b.ii

that the decision was wrong in law, and

16.2.b.iii

that the decision was unreasonable for any reason, and

16.2.c

make provision for such an appeal to be brought in the First-tier Tribunal.

16.3

Those decisions are—

16.3.a

a decision under section  8  not to issue a precision bred confirmation;

16.3.b

a decision under section  9  to revoke a precision bred confirmation;

16.3.c

a decision under section  13  not to issue a precision bred animal marketing
authorisation;

16.3.d

a decision under section  15  to suspend or revoke a precision bred animal
marketing authorisation.

16.4

Regulations may make provision as to—

16.4.a

the Secretary of State’s functions on a review of a decision under this Part;

16.4.b

the powers of the First-tier Tribunal on an appeal by virtue of this section.

16.5

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Risk assessments

##### Restrictions on importation and acquisition of precision bred organisms in England

17

17.1

Regulations may make provision for requiring a person to carry out an
environmental risk assessment before—

17.1.a

importing a precision bred organism where its destination is in England;

17.1.b

acquiring a precision bred organism which is in England.

17.2

In subsection  (1) , an “ environmental risk assessment ” means an assessment
of the risks of damage to the environment being caused as result of the person
importing or acquiring the organism.

17.3

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may, in particular, make provision—

17.3.a

prescribing how risk assessments are to be carried out;

17.3.b

prescribing matters which must be taken into account, investigated or assessed
by persons carrying out risk assessments;

17.3.c

requiring risk assessments to be kept under review;

17.3.d

requiring records to be kept of risk assessments and for those records to be
provided to the Secretary of State.

17.4

Provision that may be made by virtue of subsection  (3)  includes provision
requiring persons carrying out risk assessments to obtain advice from
prescribed persons.

17.5

For the purposes of this section—

17.5.a

“ acquire ”, in relation to precision bred organisms, includes any method by
which such organisms may come to be in a person’s possession, other than by
their being imported;

17.5.b

“damage to the environment” is caused by the presence in the environment of a
precision bred organism which is no longer under anyone’s control (see section
3 (2) ) and is capable of causing adverse effects as regards the health of
humans or the environment.

17.6

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Register

##### Precision breeding register

18

18.1

The Secretary of State must establish and maintain a register (“ the register
”) containing prescribed information about—

18.1.a

release notices and any required information (see section  4 (1) (a) );

18.1.b

marketing notices and any required information (see  section 6 (1)  and  (2)
);

18.1.c

reports provided by the advisory committee to the Secretary of State under
section 7 (2) ;

18.1.d

information provided to the advisory committee in accordance with an
information notice given by the committee (see  section 7 (3) );

18.1.e

notices given by the Secretary of State under  section 8 (1) ;

18.1.f

reports provided by the welfare advisory body to the Secretary of State under
section 12 (2) ;

18.1.g

information provided to welfare advisory body in accordance with an
information notice given by the body (see  section 12 (4) );

18.1.h

notices given by the Secretary of State under  section 13 (1) ;

18.1.i

enforcement notices (see  section 32 (3) );

18.1.j

such other matters relating to this Act as may be prescribed.

18.2

The Secretary of State must not include information in the register if, on
request by a person, the Secretary of State determines that the information is
for the time being commercially confidential in relation to that person.

This is subject to subsection  (4) .

18.3

Subsection  (2)  ceases to apply if the Secretary of State determines that the
information is no longer commercially confidential (whether or not on request
by a person).

18.4

For the purposes of subsections  (2)  and  (3) , the following information is
not to be regarded as commercially confidential—

18.4.a

the name of any person giving the notices and required information mentioned
in  subsection (1) (a)  and  (b) ;

18.4.b

a general description of any precision bred organism.

18.5

The Secretary of State must ensure that the register is accessible to the
public free of charge by electronic means.

18.6

Regulations may make provision for the keeping of the register.

18.7

Regulations under subsection  (1)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

18.8

Regulations under subsection  (6)  are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Monitoring and inspection

##### Inspectors

19

19.1

The Secretary of State may appoint inspectors for the purposes of this Part.

19.2

An inspector appointed under this section is not liable in any civil or
criminal proceedings for anything done in the purported exercise of the
inspector’s functions under section  20  or Part  4  if the court is satisfied
that the act was done in good faith and that there were reasonable grounds for
doing it.

19.3

Relief from liability of an inspector under subsection  (2)  does not affect
any liability of any other person in respect of the inspector’s act.

19.4

In this Part “ inspector ” means an inspector appointed under this section.

##### Monitoring and inspection of Part 

20

20.1

Regulations may make provision for—

20.1.a

monitoring compliance with Part  2  obligations, and

20.1.b

investigating suspected failures to comply with Part  2  obligations.

20.2

Subject to subsection  (3) , regulations under this section may, in
particular, make provision—

20.2.a

conferring powers on inspectors—

20.2.a.i

to enter premises;

20.2.a.ii

to inspect and search premises;

20.2.a.iii

to take copies of documents;

20.2.a.iv

to take photographs and samples;

20.2.a.v

to require the provision of information;

20.2.b

for allowing inspectors, in carrying out their functions, to be accompanied by
other persons;

20.2.c

for treating matters as relevant breaches (see section  31 ), including—

20.2.c.i

obstructing an inspector;

20.2.c.ii

providing false information to an inspector;

20.2.c.iii

impersonating an inspector.

20.3

Regulations under this section—

20.3.a

may not create criminal offences;

20.3.b

may not authorise an inspector to enter a private dwelling without the consent
of the occupier except in exercise of a warrant issued by a justice of the
peace;

20.3.c

may not authorise the use of force to enter premises;

20.3.d

must contain provision to prohibit information obtained by inspectors under
the regulations being used or disclosed otherwise than—

20.3.d.i

for the purposes of this Part or Part 6 of the Environmental Protection Act
1990, or

20.3.d.ii

for prescribed purposes relating to safeguarding the health and welfare of
animals.

20.4

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Meaning of “Part 

21

21.1

In this Act “Part  2  obligation” means any requirement, other than one within
subsection  (2) , imposed—

21.1.a

by or under this Part, or

21.1.b

by a compliance notice or stop notice issued in connection with a requirement
imposed by or under this Part,

including, in particular, a requirement imposed by an inspector in exercise of
the inspector’s functions.

21.2

The following are not Part  2  obligations—

21.2.a

a request made in an information notice (within the meaning of section  23 )
given by an advisory body, or

21.2.b

any obligation of the Secretary of State, an advisory body or an inspector.

21.3

Regulations may provide for references to a failure to comply with a Part  2
obligation to include references to providing or recording information, or
making a statement, that is false or misleading—

21.3.a

in purported compliance with a  Part 2  obligation, or

21.3.b

in connection with any application or review, or any proposal to suspend or
revoke a confirmation or authorisation, under this Part.

21.4

For the purposes of this section “ requirement ” includes “prohibition”.

21.5

Regulations under subsection  (3)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

#### Release and marketing: general provisions

##### Advisory bodies

22

22.1

References in this Act to the advisory committee are to the committee
appointed by the Secretary of State under section 124(1) of the Environmental
Protection Act 1990.

22.2

The advisory committee must, at the request of the Secretary of State, provide
advice on any matter relevant to the Secretary of State’s functions under
sections  6  to  9  (precision bred confirmation).

22.3

References in this Act to the welfare advisory body are to such committee or
other body as may be designated by regulations.

22.4

A body designated by regulations under subsection  (3)  may be—

22.4.a

a committee appointed by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Part,
or

22.4.b

a body—

22.4.b.i

established by or under any other Act, or

22.4.b.ii

which otherwise exercises functions of a public nature.

22.5

The welfare advisory body must, at the request of the Secretary of State,
provide advice on any matter relevant to the Secretary of State’s functions
under sections  11  to  15  (precision bred animal marketing authorisation).

22.6

Subsections  (7)  and  (8)  apply to any committee appointed by the Secretary
of State under subsection  (4) (a) .

22.7

Members of the committee are to hold and vacate office in accordance with the
terms of their appointment.

22.8

The Secretary of State may pay to members of the committee such remuneration
and allowances as the Secretary of State may determine.

22.9

Regulations under subsection  (3)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Advisory bodies: time limits etc

23

23.1

Regulations may—

23.1.a

make provision for a reporting period relating to an organism not to run while
the information requested by any information notice given in relation to the
organism has not been provided;

23.1.b

make provision for a relevant application relating to an organism to be
treated as withdrawn if the information requested by any information notice
given in relation to the organism is not provided within a prescribed period.

23.2

In this section—

                                    “ information notice ” means an
information notice under section  7  (report by advisory committee) or  12
(report by welfare advisory body);
“ relevant application ” means a marketing notice or an application for a
precision bred animal marketing authorisation;
“ reporting period ” means—
a 90 day period mentioned in section  7 (2) , or
a reporting period within the meaning of section  12 .

23.3

For the purposes of this section—

23.3.a

an information notice is given in relation to an organism if it is given in
connection with a relevant application relating to the organism, and

23.3.b

a reporting period relates to an organism if it applies for the purposes of a
relevant application relating to the organism.

23.4

Regulations under subsection  (1)  are subject to the negative procedure.

##### Meaning of “qualifying progeny”

24

In this Act “ qualifying progeny ”, in relation to a marketable precision bred
organism, means any progeny of the organism whose genome does not contain any
feature resulting from the application of modern biotechnology, apart from
features inherited from that or any other marketable precision bred organism.

##### Precision bred animal marketing authorisation: adverse effects

25

25.1

Regulations may prescribe circumstances in which the health or welfare of a
relevant animal or its qualifying progeny is, or is not, to be regarded for
the purposes of—

25.1.a

section  11 (3) , or

25.1.b

section  15 (1) (b) ,

as being adversely affected by any precision bred trait.

25.2

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

### Food and feed produced from precision bred organisms

#### Regulation of food and feed produced from precision bred organisms

26

26.1

Regulations may make provision for regulating the placing on the market in
England of food and feed produced from precision bred organisms.

26.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may, in particular—

26.2.a

prohibit any person from placing food or feed produced from a precision bred
organism on the market in England except in accordance with a marketing
authorisation issued by the Secretary of State under the regulations in
relation to the organism, and

26.2.b

impose requirements for the purpose of securing traceability in relation to
food or feed produced from precision bred organisms that is placed on the
market in England.

26.3

Regulations made by virtue of subsection  (2) (a)  may, in particular,
prescribe requirements that must be satisfied in order for the Secretary of
State to issue a food and feed marketing authorisation in relation to a
precision bred organism which may include requirements—

26.3.a

that the precision bred organism—

26.3.a.i

is a marketable precision bred organism, or

26.3.a.ii

is the qualifying progeny of a marketable precision bred organism;

26.3.b

for securing that—

26.3.b.i

any food or feed produced from the organism and covered by the authorisation
will not have adverse effects on human or animal health;

26.3.b.ii

the way in which any such food or feed will be placed on the market will not
mislead consumers;

26.3.b.iii

the production of any such food or feed will not have adverse effects on the
environment;

26.3.b.iv

consuming any such food or feed in place of other food or feed that it might
reasonably be expected to replace will not be nutritionally disadvantageous to
humans or animals.

26.4

Regulations made by virtue of subsection  (2) (a)  may also make provision, in
particular—

26.4.a

about the procedure for determining applications for food and feed marketing
authorisations;

26.4.b

for food and feed marketing authorisations to be issued subject to conditions
and limitations;

26.4.c

for varying or cancelling conditions or limitations that apply to food and
feed marketing authorisations, or imposing new ones;

26.4.d

about revocation of food and feed marketing authorisations;

26.4.e

about publication of information relating to applications for food and feed
marketing authorisations.

26.5

In subsection  (4) , references to applications for food and feed marketing
authorisations include references to applications to vary or cancel conditions
or limitations that apply to marketing authorisations.

26.6

Provision that may be made by virtue of subsection  (4)  includes provision
conferring functions on the Food Standards Agency, which may include
provision—

26.6.a

for requiring the Food Standards Agency, in carrying out a function conferred
by the regulations—

26.6.a.i

to obtain advice or information from, or consult, persons of prescribed
descriptions;

26.6.a.ii

to carry out risk assessments;

26.6.b

relating to any risk assessment required by the regulations.

26.7

Regulations which, by virtue of subsection  (6) (a) (i) , impose an obligation
on any person other than the Food Standards Agency may provide that the
obligation is not a Part  3  obligation (see section  29 ).

26.8

Regulations made by virtue of subsection  (2) (a) —

26.8.a

may prescribe who is authorised to place food and feed on the market by virtue
of a food and feed marketing authorisation, which may, in particular, be—

26.8.a.i

only the person who applied for the authorisation,

26.8.a.ii

any person, or

26.8.a.iii

any person of a prescribed description, and

26.8.b

may provide for any provision made by virtue of paragraph  (a)  to be subject,
in the case of a particular food and feed marketing authorisation, to any
limitation to which the authorisation is subject.

26.9

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

#### Food and feed marketing authorisations: register

27

27.1

Regulations may make provision for requiring the Food Standards Agency to
establish and maintain a public register containing prescribed particulars
relating to food and feed marketing authorisations (the “food and feed
register”).

27.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may provide for information provided to the
Secretary of State or the Food Standards Agency in connection with food and
feed marketing authorisations or applications for them, or with applications
to vary or cancel conditions or limitations, to be included in the food and
feed register.

27.3

The particulars prescribed under subsection  (1)  in relation to a food and
feed marketing authorisation may include, in particular, particulars of any
confirmation or authorisation issued under Part  2  that may be required in
connection with the authorisation by virtue of section  26 (3) (a) .

27.4

Regulations under subsection  (1)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

#### Monitoring and inspection of Part 

28

28.1

Regulations may make provision for designating one or more bodies within
subsection  (2)  as enforcement authorities with functions of—

28.1.a

monitoring compliance with Part  3  obligations, and

28.1.b

investigating suspected failures to comply with Part  3  obligations.

28.2

A body is within this subsection if it—

28.2.a

is established by or under any other Act, or

28.2.b

otherwise exercises functions of a public nature.

28.3

Subject to subsection  (4) , regulations under this section may, in
particular, make provision—

28.3.a

conferring powers on enforcement authorities to appoint inspectors to carry
out functions under the regulations;

28.3.b

conferring functions on an inspector, including—

28.3.b.i

powers of entry, inspection, examination, search and seizure;

28.3.b.ii

powers to take copies of documents, photographs and samples;

28.3.b.iii

powers to impose requirements;

28.3.b.iv

powers to require the provision of information;

28.3.c

for allowing inspectors, in carrying out their functions, to be accompanied by
other persons;

28.3.d

for treating matters as relevant breaches, including—

28.3.d.i

obstructing an inspector;

28.3.d.ii

providing false information to an inspector;

28.3.d.iii

impersonating an inspector;

28.3.e

for relief for inspectors from criminal or civil liability for acts done in
good faith in the purported exercise of their functions;

28.3.f

corresponding to, or applying (with or without modifications), any provision
made by or under—

28.3.f.i

the Food Safety Act 1990;

28.3.f.ii

section 67 of the Agriculture Act 1970.

28.4

Regulations under this section—

28.4.a

may not create criminal offences;

28.4.b

may not authorise an inspector to enter a private dwelling without the consent
of the occupier except in exercise of a warrant issued by a justice of the
peace.

28.5

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

#### Meaning of “Part 

29

29.1

In this Act “Part  3  obligation” means any requirement, other than one within
subsection  (3) , imposed—

29.1.a

by or under this Part, or

29.1.b

by a compliance notice or stop notice issued in connection with a requirement
imposed by or under this Part.

29.2

Part  3  obligations include, in particular—

29.2.a

where a food and feed marketing authorisation is subject to conditions, the
obligation to comply with those conditions;

29.2.b

any requirement imposed by an inspector in exercise of the inspector’s
functions.

29.3

The following are not Part  3  obligations—

29.3.a

an obligation of the Secretary of State, the Food Standards Agency or an
inspector;

29.3.b

any obligation that is not a Part  3  obligation by virtue of provision made
under section  26 (7) .

29.4

Regulations may provide for references to a failure to comply with a Part  3
obligation to include references to providing or recording information, or
making a statement, that is false or misleading—

29.4.a

in purported compliance with a  Part 3  obligation, or

29.4.b

in connection with any application or review, or any proposal to suspend or
revoke an authorisation or to vary, revoke or impose conditions or
limitations, under this Part.

29.5

For the purposes of this section “ requirement ” includes “prohibition”.

29.6

Regulations under subsection  (4)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

#### Interpretation of Part 

30

30.1

In this Part—

                           “ feed ” has the meaning given by Article 3(4) of
the Food Regulation;
“ food ” has the same meaning as in the Food Regulation (see Article 2 of that
Regulation);
“ food and feed marketing authorisation ” means a marketing authorisation
issued under regulations under section  26  in relation to a precision bred
organism;
“ the Food Regulation ” means  Regulation (EC) No 178/2002  of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2002 laying down the general
principles and requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Safety
Authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety;
“ inspector ” means a person appointed as such under regulations under section
28 ;
“ traceability ”, in relation to food or feed produced from a precision bred
organism, means the ability to trace and follow the organism and the food or
feed through all stages of production, processing and distribution.

30.2

For the purposes of this Part, food or feed is produced “from” a precision
bred organism if it contains or consists of, or is otherwise derived from, the
precision bred organism.

30.3

References in this Part to food or feed being placed on the market are to be
read in accordance with Article 3(8) of the Food Regulation.

### Enforcement

#### Enforcement of relevant breaches: general provisions

##### Meaning of “relevant breach” etc

31

31.1

In this Act “ relevant breach ”, in relation to a person, means a failure by
the person to comply with a relevant obligation, but—

31.1.a

in relation to an inspector appointed under section  19 , means a failure to
comply with a Part  2  obligation;

31.1.b

in relation to an inspector appointed under regulations under section  28 ,
means a failure to comply with a Part  3  obligation.

31.2

In this Part—

31.2.a

“ inspector ” means an inspector appointed under section  19  or under
regulations under section  28 ;

31.2.b

“ relevant obligation ” means a Part  2  obligation or a Part  3  obligation.

31.3

Regulations may make provision for—

31.3.a

persons to be treated as having failed to comply with a Part  3  obligation in
circumstances corresponding or similar to those in which section 20 of the
Food Safety Act 1990 provides for persons to be guilty of an offence under
that section;

31.3.b

a failure to comply with a Part  3  obligation not to be regarded as a
relevant breach in circumstances corresponding or similar to those in which
sections 21 and 22 of the Food Safety Act 1990 provide for defences to
offences under that Act.

31.4

Regulations under subsection  (3)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Enforcement

32

32.1

Regulations may make provision for—

32.1.a

an inspector to issue either of the following—

32.1.a.i

a compliance notice (see section  33 );

32.1.a.ii

a stop notice (see section  34 );

32.1.b

the Secretary of State or an inspector to issue a monetary penalty notice (see
section  35 );

to a person in relation to a relevant breach.

32.2

Regulations may provide for a requirement imposed by a stop notice to be
enforceable, on the application of the Secretary of State, by injunction.

This does not affect the enforcement of the requirement (or power to make
provision for its enforcement) in any other way (whether by monetary penalty
notice or otherwise).

32.3

In this Act “ enforcement notice ” means—

32.3.a

a compliance notice,

32.3.b

a stop notice, or

32.3.c

a monetary penalty notice.

32.4

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

#### Enforcement notices

##### Compliance notices

33

33.1

In this Act “ compliance notice ” means a notice requiring the person to whom
it is issued to take specified steps within a specified period.

33.2

Regulations which provide for the issue of a compliance notice must secure—

33.2.a

that a compliance notice may be issued only where the inspector issuing the
notice is satisfied that the person to whom it is issued has committed or is
committing a relevant breach,

33.2.b

that the steps specified under subsection  (1)  are steps that the inspector
considers will ensure that the relevant breach does not continue or recur, and

33.2.c

that the period specified under subsection  (1)  is not less than 14 days
beginning with the day on which the notice is received.

33.3

Sections  36  and  37  make further provision about compliance notices.

33.4

In this section “ specified ”, in relation to a compliance notice, means
specified in the notice.

##### Stop notices

34

34.1

In this Act “ stop notice ” means a notice prohibiting the person to whom it
is issued—

34.1.a

from carrying on a specified activity, or

34.1.b

from doing so until the person has taken specified steps.

34.2

Regulations which provide for the issue of a stop notice must secure—

34.2.a

that a stop notice may be issued to a person only where the inspector issuing
the notice reasonably believes that the person to whom it is issued has
committed or is likely to commit a relevant breach, and

34.2.b

that the steps specified under subsection  (1) (b)  are steps that the
inspector issuing the notice considers will ensure that the specified activity
will be carried on in a way that does not involve the person committing a
relevant breach.

34.3

Sections  36  and  37  make further provision about stop notices.

34.4

In this section “ specified ”, in relation to a stop notice, means specified
in the notice.

##### Monetary penalty notices

35

35.1

In this Act “ monetary penalty notice ” means a notice requiring the person to
whom it is issued to pay a sum specified in the notice (a “monetary penalty”)
to the appropriate authority.

35.2

In this section “ appropriate authority ” means—

35.2.a

in relation to a Part  2  obligation, the Secretary of State;

35.2.b

in relation to a Part  3  obligation, an enforcement authority.

35.3

Regulations which provide for the issue of a monetary penalty notice must
secure that the Secretary of State or an inspector may issue a monetary
penalty notice only where satisfied that the person to whom it is issued has
committed a relevant breach.

35.4

Regulations which provide for the issue of a monetary penalty notice must
require the notice to state—

35.4.a

how payment may be made,

35.4.b

the period within which payment must be made, and

35.4.c

the consequences of late payment or failure to pay.

35.5

Regulations which provide for the issue of a monetary penalty notice may make
provision—

35.5.a

for the payment of interest on late payment;

35.5.b

as to how any amounts payable by virtue of the regulations are to be
recoverable.

##### Content of enforcement notices: further provision

36

36.1

Regulations which provide for the issue of an enforcement notice to a person
must require the notice to state—

36.1.a

the grounds for issuing the notice,

36.1.b

the person’s rights to require a review of or appeal against the notice, and

36.1.c

the consequences of failure to comply with the notice.

36.2

The statement required by virtue of subsection  (1) (a)  must include
information specifying—

36.2.a

the relevant obligation to which the relevant breach relates, and

36.2.b

the matters which, in the opinion of the inspector or Secretary of State
issuing the notice, constitute the failure to comply with that obligation.

36.3

Regulations which provide for the issue of an enforcement notice may provide
for the variation or revocation of the notice—

36.3.a

by the Secretary of State, in the case of a monetary penalty notice issued by
the Secretary of State;

36.3.b

by an inspector, in any other case.

##### Enforcement notices: reviews and appeals

37

37.1

Regulations which provide for the issue of an enforcement notice to a person
must—

37.1.a

secure that the person to whom it is issued may—

37.1.a.i

require the Secretary of State to review the decision to issue the notice, and

37.1.a.ii

if not satisfied with the outcome of any such review, appeal against that
decision;

37.1.b

secure that the grounds on which a review may be required or an appeal brought
include the following—

37.1.b.i

that the decision was based on an error of fact,

37.1.b.ii

that the decision was wrong in law,

37.1.b.iii

that any steps specified in the notice were unreasonable,

37.1.b.iv

in the case of a stop notice, that the person to whom it was issued had not
committed the relevant breach and would not have done so had the notice not
been issued,

37.1.b.v

in the case of a monetary penalty notice, that the amount of the penalty was
unreasonable, and

37.1.b.vi

that the decision was unreasonable for any other reason,

37.1.c

make provision for such an appeal to be brought in the First-tier Tribunal,
and

37.1.d

make provision for suspending the operation of a compliance notice or monetary
penalty notice where an appeal is brought under the regulations in relation to
the notice pending the outcome of the appeal.

37.2

Regulations which provide for the issue of an enforcement notice may make
provision as to—

37.2.a

the Secretary of State’s functions on a review of a decision to issue an
enforcement notice, or

37.2.b

the powers of the First-tier Tribunal on an appeal by virtue of this section.

#### Costs

##### Costs

38

38.1

Regulations may make provision for an appropriate authority, by notice (a
“costs notice”) to require a person to pay the costs incurred by the authority
in relation to an enforcement notice up to the time of its issue.

38.2

In this section, “ appropriate authority ”, in relation to an enforcement
notice, means—

38.2.a

in relation to a Part  2  obligation, the Secretary of State;

38.2.b

in relation to a Part  3  obligation, an enforcement authority.

38.3

In subsection  (1) , “ costs ” includes, in particular—

38.3.a

investigation costs;

38.3.b

administration costs;

38.3.c

costs of obtaining expert advice (including legal advice).

38.4

Regulations which provide for the issue of a costs notice to a person must
secure that—

38.4.a

the notice specifies the amount required to be paid,

38.4.b

the person to whom the notice is issued may require the person issuing it to
provide a detailed breakdown of the amount,

38.4.c

the person to whom the costs notice is issued is not liable to pay any costs
which that person shows to have been unnecessarily incurred,

38.4.d

the person to whom the notice is issued may—

38.4.d.i

require the Secretary of State to review a relevant decision, and

38.4.d.ii

if not satisfied with the outcome of any such review, appeal against that
decision, and

38.4.e

the grounds on which a review may be required or an appeal brought include—

38.4.e.i

in the case of a decision as to the amount of the costs, that the amount
includes any amount referable to any costs unnecessarily incurred,

38.4.e.ii

that the decision was based on an error of fact,

38.4.e.iii

that the decision was wrong in law, and

38.4.e.iv

that the decision was unreasonable for any other reason.

38.5

Regulations which provide for the issue of a costs notice to a person must
also make provision—

38.5.a

for an appeal under the regulations to be brought in the First-tier Tribunal,
and

38.5.b

for suspending the operation of a costs notice where an appeal is brought
under the regulations pending the outcome of the appeal.

38.6

In subsection  (4) , “ relevant decision ”, in relation to a costs notice,
means—

38.6.a

the decision to issue the notice, or

38.6.b

the decision as to the amount of the costs.

38.7

Regulations which provide for the issue of a costs notice may make provision—

38.7.a

for the payment of interest on late payment;

38.7.b

as to how any amounts payable by virtue of the regulations are to be
recoverable.

38.8

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

### General

#### Fees

39

39.1

Regulations may make provision requiring a fee to be paid to the appropriate
authority in respect of the exercise of any function conferred by or under
Part  2  or Part  3 .

39.2

In this section “ appropriate authority ” means—

39.2.a

in relation to a function conferred by or under Part  2 , the Secretary of
State;

39.2.b

in relation to a function conferred by or under under Part  3 , the Food
Standards Agency.

39.3

Regulations which require the payment of a fee must prescribe—

39.3.a

the amount of the fee, or

39.3.b

how the amount of the fee is to be calculated.

39.4

In prescribing the amount of a fee in respect of a function (or any other
amount by reference to which the fee is to be calculated) the Secretary of
State may have regard to the desirability of securing that, as far as
practicable and taking one year with another, the following are equal—

39.4.a

income of the appropriate authority from fees referable to the function, and

39.4.b

expenditure incurred by—

39.4.b.i

the Secretary of State, in the case of a function conferred by or under Part
2 , or

39.4.b.ii

the Secretary of State, the Food Standards Agency or enforcement authorities,
in the case of a function conferred by or under Part  3 ,

in exercising the function (including a reasonable share of expenditure which
is referable only partly or indirectly to the exercise of that function).

39.5

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

#### Notices and documents

40

40.1

Regulations may make provision about—

40.1.a

how a notice or other document may be issued or given under this Act;

40.1.b

when such a notice or document is to be treated as being received.

40.2

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Consequential amendments of the Environmental Protection Act 1990

41

41.1

The Environmental Protection Act 1990 is amended as follows.

41.2

After section 106 insert—

########## Exclusion of precision bred organisms from English application of Part

41.2.106A

41.2.106A.1

In this Part as it applies in relation to England, references to genetically
modified organisms (except in this section and section 127)—

41.2.106A.1.a

do not include references to precision bred organisms;

41.2.106A.1.b

so far as they relate to marketing, also do not include references to gametes
of precision bred organisms.

41.2.106A.2

For the purposes of subsection  (1) , this Part applies in relation to England
so far as it applies in relation to—

41.2.106A.2.a

importing genetically modified organisms where their destination is in
England;

41.2.106A.2.b

acquiring genetically modified organisms which are in England;

41.2.106A.2.c

keeping or releasing genetically modified organisms in England;

41.2.106A.2.d

marketing a genetically modified organism so far as the organism (or, where
the organism is marketed by virtue of a product consisting of or including the
organism being made available to other persons, that product) is made
available for delivery in England.

41.2.106A.3

In this section “ precision bred organism ” and “ gamete ” have the same
meanings as in the Genetic Technology (Precision Breeding) Act 2023.

41.3

In section 124 (advisory committee for purposes of Part 6), in subsection (1),
at the end insert—

For other functions of the committee, see Part  2  of the Genetic Technology
(Precision Breeding) Act 2023.

#### Power to make consequential provision

42

42.1

Regulations may make supplementary, incidental or consequential provision in
connection with any provision of or made under this Act.

42.2

Regulations under this section may modify legislation.

42.3

Regulations under this section which contain provision modifying primary
legislation (with or without other provision) are subject to the affirmative
procedure.

42.4

Other regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Regulations

43

43.1

This section applies to regulations under this Act other than regulations
under section  48  (commencement regulations).

43.2

Regulations are to be made by statutory instrument.

43.3

A power to make regulations includes power—

43.3.a

to make—

43.3.a.i

different provision for different purposes;

43.3.a.ii

transitional, transitory or saving provision;

43.3.b

to confer a function involving the exercise of a discretion.

(See section  42 (1)  for power to make consequential, incidental and
supplemental provision.)

43.4

Where regulations under this Act are subject to the affirmative procedure, the
regulations may not be made unless a draft of the statutory instrument
containing them has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each
House of Parliament.

43.5

Where regulations under this Act are subject to the negative procedure, the
statutory instrument containing them is subject to annulment in pursuance of a
resolution of either House of Parliament.

43.6

Any provision that may be made by regulations under this Act subject to the
negative procedure may be made in regulations subject to the affirmative
procedure.

#### Interpretation

44

In this Act the following terms have the following meanings—

         “ advisory body ” means the advisory committee or welfare advisory
body;
“ the advisory committee ” has the meaning given by section  22 (1) ;
“ the affirmative procedure ” has the meaning given by section  43 (4) ;
“ animal ” has the meaning given by section  section 2 (2) ;
“ compliance notice ” has the meaning given by section  33 (1) ;
“ control ” is to be read in accordance with section  3 (2) ;
“ enforcement authority ” means a body designated as such under section  28
(1) ;
“ enforcement notice ” has the meaning given by section  32 (3) ;
“ the environment ” includes land, air, water and living organisms supported
by any of those media;
“ gamete ” has the meaning given by section  2 (4) ;
“ legislation ” means—
primary legislation,
retained direct EU legislation, or
subordinate legislation;
“ marketable precision bred organism ” has the meaning given by section  5 (2)
;
“ marketing notice ” has the meaning given by section  6 (1) ;
“ modern biotechnology ” has the meaning given by section  1 (3) ;
“ modify ”, in relation to legislation, includes amend, repeal or revoke (and
related terms are to be read accordingly);
“ monetary penalty notice ” has the meaning given by section  35 (1) ;
“ the negative procedure ” has the meaning given by section  43 (5) ;
“ notifier ”, in relation to a marketing notice, has the meaning given by
section  6 (1)  (but see section  11 (9) );
“ organism ” (except in section  2 ) means plant or animal;
“ Part 2 obligation ” has the meaning given by section  21 ;
“ Part 3 obligation ” has the meaning given by section  29 ;
“ plant ” has the meaning given by  section 2 (1) ;
“ precision bred ” has the meaning given by section  1 ;
“ precision bred animal marketing authorisation ” means a marketing
authorisation issued under section  13 (1) ;
“ precision bred confirmation ” has the meaning given by section  8 (1) (a)
(i) ;
“ precision bred organism ” has the meaning given by section  1 (1) ;
“ precision bred trait ”, in relation to a relevant animal, means a trait of
the animal which results from a feature of the animal’s genome that results
from the application of modern biotechnology;
“ prescribed ” means prescribed by regulations;
“ primary legislation ” means—
an Act,
an Act of the Scottish Parliament,
an Act or Measure of Senedd Cymru, or
Northern Ireland legislation;
“ progeny ”, in relation to a precision bred organism, includes any progeny of
the organism, whether resulting from sexual or asexual reproduction;
“ qualifying progeny ” has the meaning given by section  24 ;
“ the register ” has the meaning given by section  18 ;
“ regulations ” means regulations made by the Secretary of State;
“ relevant animal ” has the meaning given by section  10 ;
“ relevant breach ” has the meaning given by section  31 (1) ;
“ stop notice ” has the meaning given by section  34 (1) ;
“ subordinate legislation ” means an instrument made under primary legislation
or under retained direct EU legislation;
“ the welfare advisory body ” has the meaning given by section  22 (3) .

#### Financial provisions

45

The following are to be paid out of money provided by Parliament—

45.a

any expenditure incurred under or by virtue of this Act by the Secretary of
State or the Food Standards Agency, and

45.b

sums payable out of money so provided under any other Act.

#### Crown application

46

46.1

This Act binds the Crown.

46.2

If the Secretary of State certifies that it appears to the Secretary of State
appropriate in the interests of national security that powers of entry
conferred under this Act should not be exercisable in relation to Crown
premises specified in the certificate, those powers are not exercisable in
relation to those premises.

46.3

In subsection  (2) , “ Crown premises ” means premises held, or used, by or on
behalf of the Crown.

46.4

No power of entry conferred under this Act may be exercised in relation to
land belonging to His Majesty in right of His private estates.

46.5

In subsection  (4) , the reference to His Majesty’s private estates is to be
construed in accordance with section 1 of the Crown Private Estates Act 1862.

#### Extent and application to sea areas

47

47.1

Subject as follows, this Act extends to England and Wales only.

47.2

Part  1  and section  41  extend to England and Wales and Scotland only.

47.3

Sections  42  to  46 , this section and section  48  extend to England and
Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

47.4

This Act—

47.4.a

applies to the territorial sea adjacent to England as it applies in England;

47.4.b

applies to any area for the time being designated under section 1(7) of the
Continental Shelf Act 1964 as it applies in England.

#### Short title and commencement

48

48.1

This Act may be cited as the Genetic Technology (Precision Breeding) Act 2023.

48.2

Part  1  comes into force on the day on which this Act is passed.

48.3

Parts  2  to  4  and sections  39  and  40  come into force—

48.3.a

so far as necessary to enable the exercise of any power to make regulations,
on the day on which this Act is passed;

48.3.b

for remaining purposes, on such day as regulations may appoint.

48.4

Section  41  comes into force on such day as regulations may appoint.

48.5

The rest of this Part comes into force on the day on which this Act is passed.

48.6

Regulations under this section may appoint different days for different
purposes.

48.7

Regulations may make transitional, transitory or saving provision in
connection with the coming into force of any provision of this Act.

48.8

Regulations under this section are to be made by statutory instrument.

