Title: Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023
Date: 2024-11-14
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2023/3

## Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023

                                    Having been passed by Senedd Cymru and
having received the assent of His Majesty, it is enacted as follows:

### OVERVIEW

#### Overview

1

1.1

This Act forms part of a code of law relating to the historic environment of
Wales.

1.2

It consolidates enactments contained in or made under—

1.2.a

the  Historic Buildings and Ancient Monuments Act 1953 (c. 49) ;

1.2.b

Parts 1 and 3 of the  Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979 (c.
46) ;

1.2.c

Parts 14 and 15 of the  Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (c. 8) ;

1.2.d

the  Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990 (c. 9) ;

1.2.e

Part 5 of the  Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 (c. 5) ;

1.2.f

the  Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2016 (anaw 4) .

1.3

Part 2 of this Act makes provision about the conservation of monuments of
special historic interest, including provision for—

1.3.a

a schedule of monuments of national importance, maintained by the Welsh
Ministers,

1.3.b

the control of works affecting scheduled monuments, and

1.3.c

the acquisition, guardianship and preservation of monuments.

1.4

Part 3 makes provision about the conservation of buildings of architectural or
historic interest, including provision for—

1.4.a

a list of buildings of special architectural or historic interest, maintained
by the Welsh Ministers,

1.4.b

the control of works affecting listed buildings, and

1.4.c

the acquisition and preservation of buildings.

1.5

Part 4 makes provision about conservation areas, including provision for—

1.5.a

areas of special architectural or historic interest to be designated as
conservation areas by planning authorities,

1.5.b

the control of works for the demolition of buildings in conservation areas,
and

1.5.c

the preservation and repair of buildings in conservation areas.

1.6

Part 5 makes supplementary provision relating to Parts 3 and 4, including—

1.6.a

provision about proceedings before the Welsh Ministers under those Parts,
including hearings and inquiries;

1.6.b

provision about the validity and correction of decisions made under those
Parts.

1.7

Part 6 provides for—

1.7.a

a register of historic parks and gardens;

1.7.b

a list of historic place names;

1.7.c

historic environment records for every area of Wales.

1.8

Part 7 contains general provisions, including amendments and repeals of other
enactments.

### MONUMENTS OF SPECIAL HISTORIC INTEREST

#### KEY TERMS

##### Meaning of “monument” and “site of monument”

2

2.1

In this Act “ monument ” means—

2.1.a

any building, structure or work (whether above or below the surface of the
land) and any cave or excavation;

2.1.b

the site of the remains of any building, structure or work or of the remains
of any cave or excavation;

2.1.c

the site of any vehicle, vessel, aircraft or other moveable structure, or part
of such an object, which neither constitutes nor forms part of any work which
is a monument within paragraph (a);

2.1.d

the site of the remains of any object or part of an object mentioned in
paragraph (c);

2.1.e

the site of any thing, or group of things, that evidences previous human
activity (other than a site falling within paragraph (b), (c) or (d)).

2.2

For the purposes of subsection (1) any machinery attached to a monument is to
be treated as part of the monument if it could not be detached without being
dismantled.

2.3

Subsection (1)(a) does not apply to any religious building for the time being
used for religious purposes; but this is subject to any exceptions specified
in regulations made by the Welsh Ministers.

2.4

Subsections (1)(c) and (d) do not apply to—

2.4.a

the site of any object or its remains unless the position of that object or
its remains in that particular site is a matter of public interest;

2.4.b

the site of any vessel or its remains which is protected by an order under
section 1 of the  Protection of Wrecks Act 1973 (c. 33)  designating an area
around the site as a restricted area.

2.5

For the purposes of this Act the site of a monument includes not only the land
i‍n, on or under which it is situated but also any land comprising or
adjoining that land which appears to the Welsh Ministers or a local authority,
in the exercise in relation to that monument of any of their or its functions
under this Part, to be essential for the monument’s support and preservation.

2.6

References in this Act to a monument include—

2.6.a

the site of the monument in question,

2.6.b

a group of monuments, and

2.6.c

any part of a monument or group of monuments.

2.7

References in this Act to the site of a monument—

2.7.a

are to the monument itself where it consists of a site, and

2.7.b

in any other case include the monument itself.

2.8

In this section “ remains ” includes any trace or sign of the previous
existence of the thing in question.

#### SCHEDULE OF MONUMENTS OF NATIONAL IMPORTANCE

##### Schedule of monuments

###### Duty to maintain and publish schedule of monuments

3

3.1

The Welsh Ministers must maintain a schedule of monuments in Wales which they
consider to be of national importance, and must publish the up-to-date
schedule.

3.2

An entry in the schedule for a monument must include a map maintained by the
Welsh Ministers that identifies the area of the monument.

3.3

The Welsh Ministers may amend the schedule by—

3.3.a

adding a monument;

3.3.b

removing a monument;

3.3.c

amending the entry for a monument (whether by removing anything previously
included as part of the monument or adding anything not previously included,
or otherwise).

3.4

The Welsh Ministers may not add to the schedule any building or structure
occupied as a dwelling by any person other than the caretaker of the building
or structure or a member of the caretaker’s family.

3.5

An entry in the schedule recording the inclusion of a monument is a local land
charge.

3.6

In this Part “ the schedule ” means the schedule maintained under this
section.

3.7

In this Act “ scheduled monument ” means a monument included in the schedule.

###### Notification of owner etc. where the schedule is amended

4

4.1

Subsection (2) applies where the Welsh Ministers amend the schedule by—

4.1.a

adding a monument,

4.1.b

removing a monument, or

4.1.c

amending the entry for a monument.

4.2

As soon as possible after amending the schedule the Welsh Ministers must serve
notice that they have done so on—

4.2.a

every owner and occupier of the monument, and

4.2.b

every local authority in whose area the monument is situated.

4.3

Where the Welsh Ministers have added a monument to the schedule or amended the
entry in the schedule for a monument—

4.3.a

the notice must specify the date on which they did so, and

4.3.b

they must include with the notice a copy of the entry or amended entry for the
monument in the schedule.

##### Proposals to add or remove monument to or from the schedule: consultation and interim protection

###### Consultation before adding or removing monument to or from the schedule

5

5.1

Subsection (2) applies where the Welsh Ministers are proposing to amend the
schedule by—

5.1.a

adding a monument,

5.1.b

removing a monument, or

5.1.c

amending the entry for a monument to remove anything previously included as
part of the monument or add anything not previously included.

5.2

The Welsh Ministers must serve a notice on the persons mentioned in subsection
(3) which—

5.2.a

sets out the proposed amendment, and

5.2.b

invites those persons to make written representations about the proposal.

5.3

The persons are—

5.3.a

every owner and occupier of the monument,

5.3.b

every local authority in whose area the monument is situated, and

5.3.c

any other persons the Welsh Ministers consider appropriate as having special
knowledge of, or special interest in, the monument or in monuments of historic
or archaeological interest more generally.

5.4

A notice under subsection (2) must—

5.4.a

specify the period within which representations may be made, and

5.4.b

in the case of a proposal to add a monument or to add anything as part of a
monument—

5.4.b.i

include a statement of the effect of section 6 (interim protection), and

5.4.b.ii

specify the date on which interim protection takes effect under that section.

5.5

The period specified under subsection (4)(a) must be at least 28 days
beginning with the day the notice is served.

###### Interim protection pending decision on certain amendments relating to the schedule

6

6.1

This section applies where the Welsh Ministers serve notice under section 5(2)
of a proposal to amend the schedule by—

6.1.a

adding a monument, or

6.1.b

amending the entry for a monument by adding anything as part of the monument.

6.2

From the beginning of the day specified under section 5(4)(b)(ii) this Act has
effect—

6.2.a

in the case of a proposal to add a monument to the schedule, as if the
monument were a scheduled monument;

6.2.b

in the case of a proposal to amend the entry for a monument, as if the
amendment were made.

6.3

The protection conferred by virtue of subsection (2) is referred to in this
Part as “ interim protection ”.

6.4

The Welsh Ministers must—

6.4.a

publish a list of the monuments subject to interim protection, and

6.4.b

provide a copy of the notice served under section 5(2) in respect of such a
monument to any person who requests one.

###### When interim protection ends

7

7.1

Interim protection conferred by section 6(2)(a) (proposed addition of monument
to the schedule) ends in relation to a monument—

7.1.a

where the Welsh Ministers add the monument to the schedule, at the beginning
of the day specified in the notice under section 4(2), or

7.1.b

where the Welsh Ministers decide not to add the monument to the schedule, at
the beginning of the day specified in a notice served by them on the persons
mentioned in subsection (3).

7.2

Interim protection conferred by section 6(2)(b) (proposed amendment of entry
in the schedule relating to a monument) ends in relation to a monument—

7.2.a

where the Welsh Ministers amend the entry in the schedule, at the beginning of
the day specified in the notice under section 4(2), or

7.2.b

where the Welsh Ministers decide not to amend the entry in the schedule, at
the beginning of the day specified in a notice served by them on the persons
mentioned in subsection (3).

7.3

The persons referred to in subsections (1)(b) and (2)(b) are—

7.3.a

every owner and occupier of the monument, and

7.3.b

every local authority in whose area the monument is situated.

7.4

Schedule 1 makes provision about the effect of interim protection coming to an
end under subsections (1)(b) and (2)(b).

###### Compensation for loss or damage caused by interim protection

8

8.1

This section applies where interim protection ends in relation to a monument
because of a notice under section 7(1)(b) or (2)(b).

8.2

Any person who had an interest in the monument when the interim protection
took effect is entitled, on making a claim to the Welsh Ministers, to be paid
compensation by them for any loss or damage suffered by the person that is
directly attributable to the interim protection.

8.3

The loss or damage for which compensation is payable includes any amount
payable by the claimant in respect of a breach of contract caused by the need
to stop or cancel works to the monument because of the interim protection.

8.4

A claim for compensation under this section must be made in writing within 6
months beginning when the interim protection ends.

##### Review of decisions to amend schedule to add monuments etc.

###### Review of decision to add monument to the schedule etc.

9

9.1

Where the Welsh Ministers—

9.1.a

add a monument to the schedule, or

9.1.b

amend the entry in the schedule for a monument to add anything as part of the
monument,

the notice under section 4(2) must state that any owner or occupier of the
monument may make an application to the Welsh Ministers requesting a review of
the decision.

9.2

An application may be made only on the ground that the monument or part (as
the case may be) is not of national importance.

9.3

Where an owner or occupier makes an application for a review, the Welsh
Ministers must appoint a person to—

9.3.a

carry out the review, and

9.3.b

make a decision on the review.

9.4

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations specify descriptions of cases in which
they, instead of a person appointed by them, must carry out and make a
decision on a review.

9.5

The Welsh Ministers must make any amendment to the schedule they consider
appropriate to give effect to the decision on a review.

9.6

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations amend subsection (2) to—

9.6.a

add a ground of review;

9.6.b

modify a ground of review;

9.6.c

remove a ground of review.

###### Supplementary provision about reviews

10

10.1

The Welsh Ministers must by regulations make provision about—

10.1.a

the form and way in which an application under section 9 must be made;

10.1.b

the information that must be provided to, or may be required by, the Welsh
Ministers in connection with an application;

10.1.c

the period within which an application must be made.

10.2

A review under section 9 must be carried out in one or more of the following
ways (as determined by the person carrying out the review)—

10.2.a

by means of a local inquiry;

10.2.b

by means of a hearing;

10.2.c

on the basis of written representations.

10.3

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations make further provision in connection
with reviews under section 9.

10.4

Regulations under subsection (1) or (3) may authorise the Welsh Ministers or
persons appointed under section 9(3)—

10.4.a

to determine matters of a description specified in the regulations, and

10.4.b

to give directions in relation to those matters.

10.5

Schedules 2 and 6 make further provision about reviews under section 9.

#### CONTROL OF WORKS AFFECTING SCHEDULED MONUMENTS

##### Authorisation of works

###### Requirement for works to be authorised

11

11.1

A person must not carry out works to which this section applies, or cause or
permit such works to be carried out, unless the works are authorised under
this Chapter.

11.2

This section applies to—

11.2.a

works resulting in the demolition or destruction of, or any damage to, a
scheduled monument;

11.2.b

works for the purpose of removing or repairing a scheduled monument or any
part of it, or of making any alterations or additions to the monument or any
part of it;

11.2.c

flooding or tipping operations on land in, on or under which a scheduled
monument is situated.

###### Authorisation of classes of works

12

12.1

Works to which section 11 applies are authorised if the works are within a
class of works described in the table in Schedule 3.

12.2

An authorisation under subsection (1) is subject to any exceptions or
conditions specified in the table in relation to works of a particular class.

12.3

The Welsh Ministers may direct that subsection (1) does not apply to any
scheduled monument specified in the direction.

12.4

A direction under subsection (3) does not take effect until notice of it has
been served on every owner and occupier of the monument in question.

12.5

Subsection (1) does not authorise works contrary to any exception or condition
attached to a scheduled monument consent.

12.6

An authorisation under subsection (1) has effect for the benefit of the
monument and of all persons for the time being interested in the monument; but
this is subject to any provision to the contrary in Schedule 3.

###### Authorisation of works by scheduled monument consent

13

13.1

Works to which section 11 applies are authorised if—

13.1.a

written consent to carry them out has been granted by the Welsh Ministers, and

13.1.b

the works are carried out in accordance with the terms of the consent
(including any conditions attached to it).

13.2

Where—

13.2.a

works to which section 11 applies have been carried out without being
authorised under this Chapter, and

13.2.b

the Welsh Ministers grant written consent for the works,

the works are authorised from the grant of the consent.

13.3

Consent under subsection (1) or (2) is referred to in this Part as scheduled
monument consent.

##### Applications for scheduled monument consent

###### Applying for scheduled monument consent

14

14.1

An application for scheduled monument consent must be made to the Welsh
Ministers.

14.2

An application must—

14.2.a

identify the area of land to which it relates,

14.2.b

describe the works to which it relates and the likely impact of the works on
the monument, and

14.2.c

contain any other information required by the Welsh Ministers.

14.3

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations make provision about—

14.3.a

the form and content of an application (which may include provision for using
a form to be published or provided by the Welsh Ministers);

14.3.b

how an application must be made;

14.3.c

documents or other materials that must be included with an application.

14.4

The Welsh Ministers may agree with an applicant that an application may be
made otherwise than in accordance with subsection (2) or any provision made
under subsection (3), if the application relates to works to which subsection
(5) applies.

14.5

This subsection applies to minor works carried out for the purpose of—

14.5.a

removing or repairing a scheduled monument or any part of it, or

14.5.b

making any alterations or additions to the monument.

14.6

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations specify additional cases in which an
application for scheduled monument consent may be made otherwise than in
accordance with subsection (2) or any provision made under subsection (3); and
the regulations may confer a discretion on the Welsh Ministers.

###### Declarations of ownership in respect of monument

15

15.1

The Welsh Ministers may refuse to consider an application for scheduled
monument consent unless one of the following declarations signed by or on
behalf of the applicant is included with the application—

15.1.a

a declaration that, at the beginning of the 21 days ending with the day of the
application, no person other than the applicant was the owner of the monument,

15.1.b

a declaration that the applicant has given notice to all the persons (other
than the applicant) who, at the beginning of that period, were owners of the
monument, of the things required by subsection (2) and any regulations under
subsection (3),

15.1.c

a declaration that the applicant—

15.1.c.i

is unable to make a declaration under paragraph (a) or (b),

15.1.c.ii

has given notice to such of the persons mentioned in paragraph (b) as are
named in the declaration, of the things required by subsection (2) and any
regulations under subsection (3), but

15.1.c.iii

has been unable to find out the names and addresses of the rest of those
persons, despite taking all reasonable steps to do so, or

15.1.d

a declaration that the applicant—

15.1.d.i

is unable to make a declaration under paragraph (a), and

15.1.d.ii

has, despite taking all reasonable steps to do so, been unable to find out the
names and addresses of any of the persons mentioned in paragraph (b).

15.2

A notice for the purposes of subsection (1)(b) or (c)(ii) must—

15.2.a

identify the monument to which it relates (including the address or location
of the monument, and its name (if any)),

15.2.b

state that an application for scheduled monument consent is to be made in
relation to the monument,

15.2.c

identify the person making the application (and, where the applicant is making
an application on someone’s behalf, identify the other person), and

15.2.d

describe the works to which the application relates.

15.3

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations specify additional things which must be
included in a notice.

15.4

It is an offence for a person in purported compliance with this section—

15.4.a

to make a declaration which the person knows to be false or misleading in a
material respect, or

15.4.b

to recklessly make a declaration which is false or misleading in a material
respect.

15.5

A person guilty of an offence under subsection (4) is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

15.6

In this section “ owner ” means—

15.6.a

an owner of the freehold estate, or

15.6.b

a tenant under a lease granted or extended for a fixed term that has at least
7 years left to run.

###### Power to refuse to consider similar applications

16

16.1

The Welsh Ministers may refuse to consider an application for scheduled
monument consent if—

16.1.a

in the 2 years ending with the day the application is received, the Welsh
Ministers have refused a similar application, and

16.1.b

they consider that there has been no significant change in any relevant
considerations since the similar application was refused.

16.2

The Welsh Ministers may refuse to consider an application for scheduled
monument consent if the application is made at a time when a similar
application is under consideration.

16.3

For the purposes of this section an application is similar to another
application if (and only if) the Welsh Ministers consider that the works to
which the applications relate are the same or substantially the same.

##### Determining applications for scheduled monument consent

###### Procedure for determining applications and effect of grant of consent

17

17.1

The Welsh Ministers may grant scheduled monument consent in respect of all or
any part of the works to which an application relates.

17.2

Before determining whether to grant scheduled monument consent on an
application, the Welsh Ministers may do one or more of the following—

17.2.a

cause a local inquiry to be held,

17.2.b

give the applicant, and any other person, an opportunity to appear before and
be heard by a person appointed by the Welsh Ministers, or

17.2.c

give the applicant, and any other person, an opportunity to make written
representations to a person appointed by the Welsh Ministers.

17.3

Before determining whether to grant scheduled monument consent on an
application, the Welsh Ministers must—

17.3.a

in every case, consider any representations made by any person with respect to
that application, and

17.3.b

if an inquiry or hearing has been held or representations have been made in
accordance with subsection (2)(c), consider the report of the person who held
the inquiry or hearing or to whom the representations were made.

17.4

The Welsh Ministers must serve notice of their decision with respect to the
application on the applicant and on every person who has made representations
with respect to the application.

17.5

Scheduled monument consent has effect for the benefit of the monument and of
all persons for the time being interested in the monument; but this is subject
to the terms of the consent.

17.6

Schedule 6 applies in relation to proceedings held under subsection (2).

##### Grant of scheduled monument consent subject to conditions

###### Power to grant consent subject to conditions

18

18.1

Scheduled monument consent may be granted subject to conditions.

18.2

A condition may, for example—

18.2.a

impose requirements with respect to the way in which or the persons by whom
the works or any of the works are to be carried out;

18.2.b

require that a person authorised by the Welsh Ministers be given an
opportunity, before any works start, to examine the monument and its site and
to carry out such excavations as the Welsh Ministers consider to be desirable
for the purpose of archaeological investigation.

###### Condition about period within which works must start

19

19.1

Scheduled monument consent must be granted subject to the condition that the
works to which it relates must start before the end of a period which is
specified in the condition and begins with the day the consent is granted.

19.2

If consent is granted without the condition required by subsection (1), it is
to be treated as having been granted subject to the condition that the works
to which it relates must start within 5 years beginning with the day it was
granted.

19.3

This section does not apply to—

19.3.a

scheduled monument consent which provides that it ceases to have effect at the
end of a period specified in the consent (irrespective of whether any works
have started),

19.3.b

consent granted under section 13(2) (consent for works already carried out),
or

19.3.c

consent granted by a scheduled monument partnership agreement or a management
agreement (see sections 25 and 51).

##### Modification and revocation of scheduled monument consent

###### Modification and revocation of consent

20

20.1

The Welsh Ministers may by order modify or revoke a scheduled monument consent
to any extent.

20.2

An order under this section may not be made in relation to—

20.2.a

scheduled monument consent granted under section 13(2) (consent for works
already carried out), or

20.2.b

consent granted by a scheduled monument partnership agreement (see Chapter 4).

20.3

Schedules 4 and 6 make provision in connection with orders under this section.

##### Compensation

###### Compensation for refusal of scheduled monument consent or grant of consent subject to conditions

21

21.1

This section applies where—

21.1.a

an application for scheduled monument consent for works of a description
mentioned in subsection (3) is refused, or

21.1.b

an application for scheduled monument consent for works of such a description
is granted subject to conditions.

21.2

Any person who has an interest in the monument in question is entitled, on
making a claim to the Welsh Ministers, to be paid compensation by them for any
expenditure incurred or other loss or damage suffered by the person that is
directly attributable to the effect of the decision on the application; but
this is subject to the following provisions of this section.

21.3

The works in respect of which compensation is payable under this section are—

21.3.a

works which are reasonably necessary for carrying out any development for
which planning permission—

21.3.a.i

had been granted (otherwise than by a general development order) before the
monument in question became a scheduled monument, and

21.3.a.ii

was still effective when the application for scheduled monument consent was
made,

21.3.b

works constituting development for which planning permission is granted by a
general development order,

21.3.c

works which do not constitute development, and

21.3.d

works which are reasonably necessary for the continuation of a use of the
monument for a purpose for which it was in use immediately before the date of
the application for scheduled monument consent (but ignoring any use in breach
of any legal restrictions applying to the use of the monument).

21.4

The compensation payable under this section in respect of works within
subsection (3)(a) is limited to compensation for expenditure incurred or other
loss or damage suffered by virtue of the fact that, in consequence of the
Welsh Ministers’ decision, development for which the planning permission in
question was granted could not be carried out without breaching section 11
(requirement for works to be authorised).

21.5

A person is not entitled to compensation under this section in respect of any
works within subsection (3)(b) or (c) if the works in question or any of them
would or might result in the total or partial demolition or destruction of the
monument.

21.6

Where scheduled monument consent is granted subject to conditions, a person is
not entitled to compensation under this section in respect of any works within
subsection (3)(d) unless compliance with those conditions would in effect make
it impossible to use the monument for the purpose for which it was in use
before the date of the application.

21.7

In assessing any compensation payable under this section for loss or damage
consisting of depreciation of the value of an interest in land—

21.7.a

it is to be assumed that any subsequent application for scheduled monument
consent for works of a similar description would be determined in the same
way, but

21.7.b

in the case of a refusal of scheduled monument consent, if the Welsh
Ministers, on refusing that consent, undertook to grant consent for other
works affecting the monument in the event of an application being made, regard
must be had to that undertaking.

21.8

A claim for compensation under this section must be made in writing within 6
months beginning with the day of—

21.8.a

the notice of refusal of scheduled monument consent, or

21.8.b

the grant of scheduled monument consent.

21.9

In this section “ general development order ” means a development order under
section 59 of the  Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (c. 8)  that applies to
all land in Wales (subject to any exceptions specified in the order).

###### Recovery of compensation paid under section 21 on subsequent grant of consent

22

22.1

This section applies where—

22.1.a

in a case where compensation under section 21 was paid in consequence of the
refusal of scheduled monument consent, the Welsh Ministers subsequently grant
scheduled monument consent for all or any of the works in respect of which the
compensation was paid, and

22.1.b

in a case where compensation under that section was paid in consequence of the
grant of scheduled monument consent subject to conditions, the Welsh Ministers
subsequently—

22.1.b.i

modify the consent so that the conditions, or any of them, no longer apply to
all or any of the works in respect of which the compensation was paid, or

22.1.b.ii

grant a new consent for all or any of those works free from those conditions,
or any of them.

22.2

This section does not apply in any case unless the Welsh Ministers have served
notice of the payment of compensation on the council of every county or county
borough in which the monument is situated.

22.3

In granting or modifying a scheduled monument consent in a case to which this
section applies, the Welsh Ministers may do so on terms that no works in
respect of which the compensation was paid are to be carried out under the
consent until the recoverable amount has been repaid to the Welsh Ministers or
secured to their satisfaction.

22.4

In subsection (3) “ recoverable amount ” has the meaning given by section 23.

22.5

A notice under subsection (2) must specify—

22.5.a

the decision which gave rise to the entitlement to compensation,

22.5.b

the monument affected by the decision, and

22.5.c

the amount of the compensation.

22.6

A notice under subsection (2) is a local land charge, and for the purposes of
the  Local Land Charges Act 1975 (c. 76)  the council served with a notice
under that subsection is to be treated as the originating authority as
respects the charge.

###### Determination of amount recoverable under section 22

23

23.1

The “ recoverable amount ” for the purposes of section 22 means an amount
specified by the Welsh Ministers in giving notice of their decision on the
application for scheduled monument consent or in the order modifying the
consent (as the case may be); but this is subject to subsection (3).

23.2

Where a person who has an interest in a monument objects to the amount
specified by the Welsh Ministers, the person may require the determination of
the amount to be referred to the Upper Tribunal.

23.3

Where a reference is made to the Upper Tribunal under subsection (2) the
recoverable amount is the amount the Tribunal determines.

23.4

The amount specified or determined as the recoverable amount under this
section may be an amount representing all or any part of the compensation paid
under section 21.

###### Compensation where works affecting a scheduled monument cease to be authorised

24

24.1

This section applies where works affecting a scheduled monument which were
previously authorised under this Chapter cease to be authorised—

24.1.a

because an authorisation under section 12 ceases to apply (whether because of
an amendment to the table in Schedule 3 or a direction given under subsection
(3) of that section),

24.1.b

because of the modification or revocation of a scheduled monument consent by
an order made under section 20, or

24.1.c

in accordance with paragraph 2 of Schedule 4, because of the service of a
notice of proposed modification or revocation of a scheduled monument consent
under paragraph 1 of that Schedule.

24.2

Any person who has an interest in the monument is entitled, on making a claim
to the Welsh Ministers, to be paid compensation by them for—

24.2.a

any expenditure incurred by the person in carrying out works which become
abortive because further works cease to be authorised, or

24.2.b

any other loss or damage suffered by the person which is directly attributable
to that fact.

24.3

A person is not entitled to compensation under this section in a case within
subsection (1)(a) unless, on an application for scheduled monument consent for
the works in question, consent is refused, or is granted subject to conditions
other than those which previously applied by virtue of section 12.

24.4

For the purposes of this section expenditure incurred in the preparation of
plans for the purposes of any works, or on other similar matters preparatory
to any works, is to be treated as expenditure incurred in carrying out the
works.

24.5

Subject to that, no compensation is payable under this section in respect of—

24.5.a

works carried out before an authorisation under section 12 applied in relation
to the works or before the scheduled monument consent in question was granted
(as the case may be), or

24.5.b

other loss or damage (other than loss or damage consisting of depreciation of
the value of an interest in land) arising out of anything done or omitted to
be done before that authorisation applied or that consent was granted.

24.6

A claim for compensation under this section must be made in writing within 6
months beginning with the day the works cease to be authorised.

#### SCHEDULED MONUMENT PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENTS

##### Scheduled monument partnership agreements

25

25.1

The Welsh Ministers may make an agreement under this section (a “scheduled
monument partnership agreement”) with—

25.1.a

any owner of a scheduled monument, or

25.1.b

any owner of land adjoining or in the vicinity of such a monument (“associated
land”).

25.2

Any of the following persons may also be a party to the agreement (in addition
to the owner and the Welsh Ministers)—

25.2.a

any occupier of the monument or its associated land;

25.2.b

any other person who has an interest in the monument or its associated land;

25.2.c

any person involved in the management of the monument or its associated land;

25.2.d

any local authority in whose area the monument or its associated land is
situated;

25.2.e

any local authority which, by virtue of Chapter 6, is a guardian of the
monument or its associated land;

25.2.f

any other person the Welsh Ministers consider appropriate as having special
knowledge of, or special interest in, the monument or in monuments of historic
or archaeological interest more generally.

25.3

A scheduled monument partnership agreement may grant scheduled monument
consent under section 13(1) for specified works for the purpose of—

25.3.a

removing or repairing the monument to which the agreement relates, or

25.3.b

making any alterations or additions to the monument.

25.4

Where a scheduled monument partnership agreement grants scheduled monument
consent subject to conditions, the agreement must specify those conditions.

25.5

A scheduled monument partnership agreement may also—

25.5.a

specify works that would, or would not, in the view of the parties, be works
to which section 11 applies;

25.5.b

make provision about the maintenance and preservation of the monument or its
associated land;

25.5.c

make provision about the carrying out of specified works, or the doing of any
specified thing, in relation to the monument or its associated land;

25.5.d

provide for public access to the monument or its associated land and the
provision of associated facilities, information or services to the public;

25.5.e

restrict access to, or use of, the monument or its associated land;

25.5.f

prohibit the doing of any specified thing in relation to the monument or its
associated land;

25.5.g

provide for the Welsh Ministers, or any local authority in whose area the
monument or its associated land is situated, to make payments of specified
amounts and on specified terms—

25.5.g.i

for or towards the cost of any works provided for under the agreement, or

25.5.g.ii

in consideration of any restriction, prohibition or obligation accepted by any
other party to the agreement.

25.6

A scheduled monument partnership agreement may relate to more than one
monument or more than one piece of associated land.

25.7

In this section “ specified ” means specified or described in a scheduled
monument partnership agreement.

##### Further provision about scheduled monument partnership agreements

26

26.1

A scheduled monument partnership agreement must be in writing.

26.2

A scheduled monument partnership agreement must—

26.2.a

identify the monument or associated land to which it relates;

26.2.b

describe any works to which it relates;

26.2.c

specify the date on which it takes effect and its duration;

26.2.d

make provision for the parties to review the terms of the agreement at
intervals specified in it;

26.2.e

make provision for its variation (but this is subject to regulations made
under subsection (5));

26.2.f

make provision for its termination (but this is subject to section 27).

26.3

A scheduled monument partnership agreement may contain incidental and
consequential provision.

26.4

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations specify other terms that must be
included in a scheduled monument partnership agreement.

26.5

The Welsh Ministers must by regulations make provision about—

26.5.a

the consultation that must take place before a scheduled monument partnership
agreement is made or varied;

26.5.b

the publicity that must be given to a scheduled monument partnership agreement
before or after it is made or varied.

26.6

Regulations under subsection (5)(a) must require the Welsh Ministers to
consult the following persons before making a scheduled monument partnership
agreement—

26.6.a

every owner and occupier of the monument or associated land to which the
proposed agreement relates;

26.6.b

every local authority in whose area the monument or associated land is
situated;

26.6.c

any local authority which by virtue of Chapter 6 is a guardian of the monument
or associated land.

26.7

A scheduled monument partnership agreement may not impose any obligation or
liability, or confer any right, on a person who is not a party to the
agreement; and scheduled monument consent granted by such an agreement has
effect only for the benefit of the parties to it.

26.8

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations disapply, apply or reproduce with or
without modifications, any provision of this Part for the purposes of
scheduled monument partnership agreements.

##### Termination of agreement or provision of agreement

27

27.1

The Welsh Ministers may by order terminate a scheduled monument partnership
agreement or any provision of such an agreement.

27.2

An order under subsection (1) may contain supplementary, incidental,
transitory, transitional or saving provision.

27.3

An order under this section terminating a provision which grants scheduled
monument consent for any works may be made at any time before the works are
completed, but does not affect scheduled monument consent for works carried
out before the order takes effect.

27.4

Schedule 5 and paragraph 1 of Schedule 6 make further provision in connection
with making orders under this section (including provision for notices of
proposed termination).

27.5

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations amend Schedule 5 or 6, and the
regulations may make consequential amendments to any other provision of this
Act.

##### Compensation in relation to termination

28

28.1

This section applies where the Welsh Ministers—

28.1.a

serve a notice of proposed termination, or

28.1.b

make an order under section 27,

in relation to a scheduled monument partnership agreement.

28.2

Any party to the agreement who has an interest in the monument or land to
which the agreement applies is entitled, on making a claim to the Welsh
Ministers, to be paid compensation by them for—

28.2.a

any expenditure incurred by the party in carrying out works which become
abortive because of the notice or order;

28.2.b

any other loss or damage suffered by the party which is directly attributable
to the notice or order.

28.3

For the purposes of this section expenditure incurred in the preparation of
plans for the purposes of any works, or on other similar matters preparatory
to any works, is to be treated as expenditure incurred in carrying out the
works.

28.4

Subject to that, no compensation is payable under this section in respect of—

28.4.a

works carried out before the scheduled monument partnership agreement, or the
relevant provision of the agreement, took effect, or

28.4.b

other loss or damage (other than loss or damage consisting of depreciation of
the value of an interest in land) arising out of anything done or omitted to
be done before the agreement or provision took effect.

28.5

A claim for compensation under this section must be made in writing within 6
months beginning with the day the notice of proposed termination or order
takes effect (as the case may be).

##### Interpretation

29

In this Chapter—

                                                                  “ associated
land ” (“ tir cysylltiedig ”), in relation to a monument, has the meaning
given by section 25(1)(b);
“ notice of proposed termination ” (“ hysbysiad o derfyniad arfaethedig ”) has
the meaning given by paragraph 1 of Schedule 5;
“ owner ” (“ perchennog ”) means—
an owner of the freehold estate, or
a tenant under a lease granted or extended for a fixed term that has at least
7 years left to run;
“ scheduled monument partnership agreement ” (“ cytundeb partneriaeth heneb
gofrestredig ”) has the meaning given by section 25(1).

#### ENFORCEMENT OF CONTROLS RELATING TO SCHEDULED MONUMENTS

##### Offences relating to unauthorised works

###### Offence of carrying out unauthorised works or breaching condition of consent

30

30.1

A person commits an offence if the person carries out, or causes or permits to
be carried out, works in relation to a scheduled monument in breach of section
11 (requirement for works to be authorised).

30.2

A person also commits an offence if the person—

30.2.a

carries out, or causes or permits to be carried out, works in relation to a
scheduled monument, and

30.2.b

fails to comply with a condition subject to which scheduled monument consent
has been granted for the works.

30.3

Subsection (2) does not limit what may be an offence under subsection (1).

30.4

In proceedings against a person for an offence under subsection (1) in
relation to a monument on which interim protection is conferred—

30.4.a

it is a defence for the person to prove that the person did not know, and
could not reasonably have been expected to know, that the interim protection
had been conferred, and

30.4.b

where the defence is raised by a person on whom a notice should have been
served under section 5(2), it is for the prosecution to prove that the notice
was served on the person.

30.5

In proceedings against a person for an offence under subsection (2), it is a
defence for the person to prove that the person took all reasonable
precautions and exercised all due diligence to avoid breaching the condition.

30.6

In proceedings against a person for an offence under this section in relation
to works within section 11(2)(a), it is a defence for the person to prove that
the person took all reasonable precautions and exercised all due diligence to
avoid or prevent damage to the monument.

30.7

In proceedings against a person for an offence under this section in relation
to works within section 11(2)(a) or (c), it is a defence for the person to
prove that—

30.7.a

before carrying out the works or before causing or permitting the works to be
carried out, the person had taken all reasonable steps to find out whether
there was a scheduled monument in the area affected by the works, and

30.7.b

the person did not know, and had no reason to believe, that the monument was
within the area affected by the works or (as the case may be) that it was a
scheduled monument.

30.8

In proceedings against a person for an offence under this section it is a
defence for the person to prove that—

30.8.a

the works were urgently necessary in the interests of safety or health,

30.8.b

the works carried out were limited to the minimum measures immediately
necessary, and

30.8.c

notice in writing justifying in detail the carrying out of the works was given
to the Welsh Ministers as soon as reasonably practicable.

30.9

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction, or on conviction on indictment, to a fine.

##### Temporary stop notices

###### Power of Welsh Ministers to issue temporary stop notice

31

31.1

The Welsh Ministers may issue a temporary stop notice if they consider—

31.1.a

that works have been or are being carried out in relation to a scheduled
monument which involve a breach of section 11 (requirement for works to be
authorised) or of a condition subject to which scheduled monument consent has
been granted, and

31.1.b

that the works (or any of them) ought to be stopped immediately, having regard
to the effect of the works on the monument as one of national importance.

31.2

A temporary stop notice must—

31.2.a

specify the works to which it relates,

31.2.b

prohibit the carrying out of the works (or any of them specified in the
notice),

31.2.c

set out the Welsh Ministers’ reasons for issuing the notice, and

31.2.d

state the effect of section 33 (offence of breaching temporary stop notice).

31.3

The Welsh Ministers must display a copy of a temporary stop notice on the
monument or land to which it relates, and the copy must specify the date on
which it is first displayed.

31.4

But if—

31.4.a

it is not reasonably practicable to display a copy of the notice on the
monument or land, or

31.4.b

the Welsh Ministers consider that displaying a copy of the notice on the
monument or land might damage the monument,

the Welsh Ministers may instead display a copy in a prominent place as near to
the monument or land as is reasonably practicable.

31.5

The Welsh Ministers may serve a copy of the notice on any person they
consider—

31.5.a

to be carrying out the works that the notice prohibits or causing or
permitting them to be carried out,

31.5.b

to be an occupier of the monument or land to which the notice relates, or

31.5.c

to have an interest in the monument or land.

###### Duration etc. of temporary stop notice

32

32.1

A temporary stop notice takes effect when a copy of it is first displayed in
accordance with section 31.

32.2

A temporary stop notice ceases to have effect—

32.2.a

at the end of 28 days beginning with the day the copy of it is first displayed
in accordance with section 31, or

32.2.b

if it specifies a shorter period beginning with that day, at the end of that
period.

32.3

But if the Welsh Ministers withdraw the notice before the end of the period
for which it would otherwise have effect, the notice ceases to have effect
when it is withdrawn.

32.4

The Welsh Ministers may not issue a second or subsequent temporary stop notice
in relation to the same works unless they have, since issuing the previous
notice, taken other enforcement action in relation to the breach referred to
in section 31(1)(a).

32.5

In subsection (4) the reference to taking other enforcement action is a
reference to—

32.5.a

issuing an enforcement notice under section 35, or

32.5.b

obtaining an injunction under section 42.

###### Offence of breaching temporary stop notice

33

33.1

A person commits an offence if, at any time when a temporary stop notice has
effect, the person carries out works prohibited by the notice or causes or
permits such works to be carried out.

33.2

A person may be charged with an offence under this section by reference to a
day or a longer period, and may be convicted of more than one offence in
relation to the same temporary stop notice by reference to different periods.

33.3

In proceedings against a person for an offence under this section, it is a
defence for the person to prove that the person did not know, and could not
reasonably have been expected to know, of the existence of the temporary stop
notice.

33.4

In proceedings for an offence under this section, it is a defence to prove
that—

33.4.a

the works were urgently necessary in the interests of safety or health,

33.4.b

the works carried out were limited to the minimum measures immediately
necessary, and

33.4.c

notice in writing justifying in detail the carrying out of the works was given
to the Welsh Ministers as soon as reasonably practicable.

33.5

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction, or on conviction on indictment, to a fine.

33.6

In determining the amount of the fine, the court must in particular have
regard to any financial benefit which has accrued or appears likely to accrue
to the person in consequence of the offence.

###### Compensation for loss or damage caused by temporary stop notice

34

34.1

This section applies where—

34.1.a

the works specified in a temporary stop notice do not, at the time the notice
takes effect, involve a breach of section 11 (requirement for works to be
authorised) or of a condition subject to which scheduled monument consent has
been granted, or

34.1.b

the Welsh Ministers withdraw a temporary stop notice after it has taken
effect.

34.2

This section does not apply by virtue of subsection (1)(b) where—

34.2.a

scheduled monument consent is granted for the works specified in the temporary
stop notice after the notice has taken effect, and

34.2.b

the Welsh Ministers withdraw the notice after the grant of that consent.

34.3

Any person who has an interest in the monument or land to which the notice
relates‍ at the time the notice takes effect is entitled, on making a claim to
the Welsh Ministers, to be paid compensation by them for any loss or damage
suffered by the person that is directly attributable to the effect of the
notice.

34.4

The loss or damage for which compensation is payable includes any amount
payable by the claimant in respect of a breach of contract caused by taking
action necessary to comply with the notice.

34.5

No compensation is payable under this section for loss or damage that the
claimant could have avoided by—

34.5.a

providing information that the claimant was required to provide by an
information notice served by the Welsh Ministers under section 197, or

34.5.b

co-operating with the Welsh Ministers in any other way when responding to such
a notice.

34.6

A claim for compensation under this section must be made in writing within 6
months beginning—

34.6.a

in a case falling within subsection (1)(a) but not within subsection (1)(b),
with the day the temporary stop notice takes effect;

34.6.b

in a case falling within subsection (1)(b), with the day the notice is
withdrawn.

##### Enforcement notices

###### Power of Welsh Ministers to issue enforcement notice

35

35.1

The Welsh Ministers may issue an enforcement notice if they consider—

35.1.a

that works which involve a breach of section 11 (requirement for works to be
authorised) or of a condition subject to which scheduled monument consent was
granted have been or are being carried out in relation to a scheduled monument
or land in, on or under which the monument is situated, and

35.1.b

that it is appropriate to issue the notice, having regard to the effect of the
works on the monument as one of national importance.

35.2

An enforcement notice must—

35.2.a

specify the alleged breach, and

35.2.b

require works specified in the notice to be stopped, or require steps
specified in the notice to be taken for one or more of the purposes set out in
subsection (3).

35.3

The purposes are—

35.3.a

restoring the monument or land to its condition before the breach took place,

35.3.b

if the Welsh Ministers consider that restoration would not be reasonably
practicable or would be undesirable, carrying out further works to alleviate
the effect of the breach, or

35.3.c

putting the monument or land in the condition it would have been in if the
terms of any scheduled monument consent for the works to which the notice
relates (including any conditions attached to the consent) had been complied
with.

35.4

Where an enforcement notice imposes a requirement under subsection (3)(b),
scheduled monument consent is to be treated as having been granted for any
works carried out in compliance with the requirement.

35.5

The Welsh Ministers must—

35.5.a

maintain a list of every monument in respect of which an enforcement notice is
in effect and publish the up-to-date list, and

35.5.b

provide a copy of the enforcement notice relating to a monument in the list to
any person who requests one.

###### Service and taking effect of enforcement notice

36

36.1

An enforcement notice must specify—

36.1.a

the date on which it is to take effect, and

36.1.b

the period within which the works specified in the notice must be stopped or
the steps specified in it must be taken.

36.2

The notice takes effect at the beginning of the day specified under subsection
(1)(a); but where an appeal is made against the notice under section 39, this
is subject to subsection (4) of that section.

36.3

An enforcement notice may specify different periods for stopping different
works or taking different steps.

36.4

Where the Welsh Ministers issue an enforcement notice, they must serve a copy
of the notice on—

36.4.a

every owner and occupier of the monument or land to which the notice relates,

36.4.b

if the monument or land is let but the lessee is not the occupier, the lessee,
and

36.4.c

any other person who has an interest in the monument or land which the Welsh
Ministers consider to be materially affected by the notice.

36.5

Each copy of the notice must be served—

36.5.a

before the end of 28 days after the day the notice is issued, and

36.5.b

at least 28 days before the date specified in the notice as the date on which
it is to take effect.

###### Variation and withdrawal of enforcement notice

37

37.1

Where the Welsh Ministers have issued an enforcement notice, they may—

37.1.a

withdraw the notice;

37.1.b

waive or relax any requirement of the notice, and in particular extend the
period within which the notice requires any works to be stopped or any step to
be taken.

37.2

The Welsh Ministers may exercise the powers in subsection (1) whether or not
the notice has taken effect.

37.3

The withdrawal of an enforcement notice does not prevent the Welsh Ministers
from issuing another enforcement notice.

37.4

Subsection (5) applies where the Welsh Ministers had served copies of the
enforcement notice under section 36(4) before exercising the powers in
subsection (1).

37.5

Immediately after exercising any of those powers, the Welsh Ministers must
give notice that they have done so to every person who was served with a copy
of the enforcement notice (or who would be served with a copy of the notice if
it were reissued).

###### Effect of granting scheduled monument consent on enforcement notice

38

38.1

This section applies if, after an enforcement notice has been issued,
scheduled monument consent is granted under section 13(2)—

38.1.a

authorising any works to which the notice relates that have been carried out
in breach of section 11, or

38.1.b

authorising works which involve a breach of a condition subject to which a
previous consent was granted.

38.2

The notice ceases to have effect (or does not take effect) so far as it—

38.2.a

requires steps to be taken that are inconsistent with the authorisation of the
works, or

38.2.b

requires steps to be taken for complying with the condition.

38.3

The fact that an enforcement notice has wholly or partly ceased to have effect
by virtue of this section does not affect the liability of any person for an
offence in respect of a previous failure to comply with the notice (see
section 41).

###### Appeal against enforcement notice

39

39.1

A person on whom a copy of an enforcement notice is served, or any other
person with an interest in the monument or land to which the notice relates,
may appeal to a magistrates’ court against the notice.

39.2

An appeal may be made on one or more of the following grounds—

39.2.a

that the matters alleged to constitute a breach of section 11 or of a
condition of scheduled monument consent have not occurred;

39.2.b

that those matters (if they occurred) do not constitute such a breach;

39.2.c

that the following conditions are met—

39.2.c.i

works to the monument or land were urgently necessary in the interests of
safety or health,

39.2.c.ii

the works carried out were limited to the minimum measures immediately
necessary, and

39.2.c.iii

written notice justifying in detail the need for the works was given to the
Welsh Ministers as soon as reasonably practicable;

39.2.d

that a copy of the enforcement notice was not served on a person as required
by section 36;

39.2.e

that the period within which the notice requires any works to be stopped or
any steps to be taken is unreasonably short.

39.3

An appeal must be made before the date specified in the notice as the date on
which it is to take effect.

39.4

Where an appeal is made, the notice has no effect until the appeal is finally
determined or withdrawn.

39.5

On an appeal under this section, a magistrates’ court may uphold the notice or
quash it.

39.6

The court may uphold a notice even if a copy of it was not served on a person
who was required by section 36 to be served, if the court is satisfied that
the person has not been substantially prejudiced by the failure.

###### Powers to enter land and take steps required by enforcement notice

40

40.1

If the period within which an enforcement notice requires any step to be taken
has ended and the step has not been taken, a person authorised in writing by
the Welsh Ministers may—

40.1.a

enter the land in, on or under which the monument is situated and take the
step, and

40.1.b

recover from a person who is then an owner or lessee of the monument or land
the costs incurred in doing so.

40.2

The liability under subsection (1) of a person who is the owner of a monument
or land merely by virtue of being entitled to receive the rack rent as trustee
for another person is limited to the total amount of money the person has or
has had by virtue of that entitlement.

40.3

Where, on an application by way of complaint made by an owner of a scheduled
monument or land, a magistrates’ court is satisfied that an occupier of the
monument or land is preventing the owner from taking steps required by an
enforcement notice, the court may by warrant authorise the owner to enter the
land and take the steps.

###### Offence of failing to comply with enforcement notice

41

41.1

Where, at any time after the end of the period within which an enforcement
notice requires any works to be stopped or any step to be taken, the works are
being carried out or the step has not been taken, a person who is at that time
an owner of the scheduled monument or land to which the notice relates is
guilty of an offence.

41.2

A person may be charged with an offence under this section by reference to a
day or a longer period, and a person may be convicted of more than one offence
in relation to the same enforcement notice by reference to different periods.

41.3

In proceedings against a person for an offence under this section, it is a
defence for the person to prove—

41.3.a

that the person did everything the person could be expected to do to secure
that the works specified in the notice were stopped or the steps required by
the notice were taken, or

41.3.b

that the person did not know, and could not reasonably have been expected to
know, of the existence of the enforcement notice.

41.4

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction, or on conviction for indictment, to a fine.

41.5

In determining the amount of the fine, the court must in particular have
regard to any financial benefit which has accrued or appears likely to accrue
to the person in consequence of the offence.

##### Injunctions

###### Injunction to restrain unauthorised works or failure to comply with condition of consent

42

42.1

The Welsh Ministers may apply to the High Court or the county court for an
injunction restraining—

42.1.a

an actual or expected breach of section 11 (requirement for works to be
authorised) in relation to a scheduled monument or land in, on or under which
there is a scheduled monument, or

42.1.b

an actual or expected failure to comply with a condition of scheduled monument
consent for works to a scheduled monument.

42.2

The Welsh Ministers may make an application whether or not they have exercised
or are proposing to exercise any of their other powers under this Part.

42.3

The court may grant an injunction on any terms it considers appropriate for
the purpose of restraining the breach.

#### ACQUISITION, GUARDIANSHIP AND PUBLIC ACCESS

##### Acquisition of monuments of special historic interest

###### Compulsory acquisition of monuments of special historic interest

43

43.1

The Welsh Ministers may acquire compulsorily any monument of special historic
interest for the purpose of securing its preservation.

43.2

The  Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (c. 67)  applies to an acquisition under
this section.

43.3

Subsection (4) applies for the purpose of assessing compensation for any
acquisition under this section of a monument which is a scheduled monument
immediately before the day the compulsory purchase order is made.

43.4

Where this subsection applies, it is to be assumed that scheduled monument
consent would not be granted for any works which would or might result in the
demolition, destruction or removal of the monument or any part of it.

###### Acquisition by agreement or gift of monuments of special historic interest

44

44.1

The Welsh Ministers may acquire by agreement any monument of special historic
interest.

44.2

A local authority may acquire by agreement any monument of special historic
interest in or in the vicinity of its area.

44.3

The Welsh Ministers or any local authority may accept a gift (whether by deed
or will) of any monument of special historic interest.

44.4

Part 1 of the  Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 (c. 56)  applies (so far as
relevant) to an acquisition under this section, other than sections 4 to 8,
section 10 and section 31 of that Act.

##### Guardianship of monuments of special historic interest

###### Power to place monument of special historic interest under guardianship

45

45.1

A person with a qualifying interest in a monument of special historic interest
may, with the agreement of the Welsh Ministers, appoint them by deed as
guardians of the monument.

45.2

A person with a qualifying interest in a monument of special historic interest
may, with the agreement of any local authority in or in the vicinity of whose
area the monument is situated, appoint the authority by deed as guardian of
the monument.

45.3

A person who is not the occupier of a monument may not establish guardianship
of the monument under this section unless the occupier is also a party to the
deed.

45.4

Any other person who has an interest in the monument may be a party to the
deed in addition to the person establishing the guardianship of the monument
and (where the latter is not the occupier) the occupier.

45.5

The following interests in a monument are qualifying interests for the
purposes of this section—

45.5.a

a freehold estate;

45.5.b

a leasehold estate, or interest in possession, which—

45.5.b.i

has at least 45 years left to run, or

45.5.b.ii

is renewable for at least 45 years;

45.5.c

an interest in possession for the person’s own life or the life of another
person, or for lives (whether or not including the person’s own life), under
any existing or future trust of land where the estate or interest subject to
the trust falls within paragraph (a) or (b).

45.6

In subsection (5)(c) “ trust of land ” has the same meaning as in the  Trusts
of Land and Appointment of Trustees Act 1996 (c. 47) .

45.7

In this Chapter “ guardianship deed ” means a deed executed under subsection
(1) or (2).

###### Supplementary provision about guardianship deeds

46

46.1

A guardianship deed is a local land charge.

46.2

Every person deriving title to a monument of special historic interest from,
through or under any person who has executed a guardianship deed is bound by
the deed unless the person derives title by virtue of any disposal made by the
person who executed the deed before the date of the deed.

46.3

The Welsh Ministers or a local authority may not become guardians of a
building or structure occupied as a dwelling by any person other than the
caretaker of the building or structure or a member of the caretaker’s family.

46.4

Any person who has any estate or interest in a monument under guardianship has
the same right and title to, and estate or interest in, the monument in all
respects as if the monument were not under guardianship; but this is subject
to any provision to the contrary in this Part.

###### General functions of guardians

47

47.1

The guardian of a monument must maintain it, and may do anything the guardian
considers necessary for its maintenance.

47.2

The guardian of a monument has full control and management of it, and may do
anything the guardian considers necessary for its proper control and
management.

47.3

The powers in subsections (1) and (2) include power to—

47.3.a

make any examination of the monument;

47.3.b

open up the monument or make excavations of it for the purpose of examination
or otherwise;

47.3.c

remove the whole or any part of the monument to another place for the purposes
of preserving it.

47.4

The power in subsection (2) includes power to require the payment of a charge
in connection with any use of the monument.

47.5

The guardian of a monument may enter the site of the monument for the purpose
of exercising any of the guardian’s powers under this section in relation to
it (and may authorise any other person to enter the site and exercise those
powers on the guardian’s behalf).

47.6

Subsections (2) to (4) are subject to any provision to the contrary in the
guardianship deed.

###### Termination of guardianship

48

48.1

The guardian of a monument may agree with the persons who are for the time
being immediately affected by the operation of the guardianship deed—

48.1.a

to exclude any part of the monument from the guardianship, or

48.1.b

to renounce guardianship of the monument.

48.2

In the absence of such an agreement, a monument remains under guardianship
(unless it is acquired by its guardian) until an occupier of the monument who
is entitled to terminate the guardianship gives notice in writing to that
effect to the guardian of the monument.

48.3

An occupier of a monument is entitled to terminate the guardianship of the
monument if the occupier—

48.3.a

has a qualifying interest (within the meaning of section 45(5)) in the
monument, and

48.3.b

is not bound by the guardianship deed.

48.4

A local authority must consult the Welsh Ministers before making an agreement
under subsection (1).

48.5

The guardian of a monument may not make an agreement under subsection (1)
unless the guardian is satisfied, with respect to the part or whole of the
monument (as the case may be)—

48.5.a

that satisfactory arrangements have been made for ensuring its preservation
after termination of the guardianship, or

48.5.b

that it is no longer practicable to preserve it (whether because of the cost
of preserving it or otherwise).

48.6

An agreement under subsection (1) must be made under seal.

48.7

For the purposes of subsection (1) a person is immediately affected by the
operation of a guardianship deed relating to a monument if the person is bound
by that deed and is in possession or occupation of the monument.

##### Acquisition and guardianship of land in the vicinity of a monument of special historic interest etc.

###### Acquisition and guardianship of land in the vicinity of a monument

49

49.1

References in sections 43 to 46 to a monument of special historic interest
include any land adjoining or in the vicinity of the monument which the Welsh
Ministers consider, or (as the case may be) a local authority considers, to be
reasonably required for any of the purposes mentioned in subsection (2).

49.2

The purposes are—

49.2.a

the maintenance of the monument or its amenities;

49.2.b

the storage of equipment or materials for the maintenance of the monument or
its amenities;

49.2.c

providing or facilitating access to the monument;

49.2.d

the proper control or management of the monument;

49.2.e

the provision of facilities and services for the public for or in connection
with providing public access to the monument.

49.3

The power of compulsory acquisition in section 43(1), as it applies by virtue
of subsection (1) of this section, is to be read as if for “the purpose of
securing its preservation” there were substituted  “any of the purposes
mentioned in section 49(2)” .

49.4

Land may be acquired or taken into guardianship by virtue of this section
either at the same time as the monument or later.

49.5

A person who is the guardian of any land by virtue of this section has full
control and management of the land, and may do anything the guardian considers
necessary—

49.5.a

for its proper control and management (including requiring the payment of a
charge in connection with any use of the land), and

49.5.b

for the use of the land for any of the purposes relating to the monument
mentioned in subsection (2).

49.6

A person who is the guardian of any land by virtue of this section may enter
the land for the purpose of exercising the guardian’s powers under subsection
(5) (and may authorise any other person to enter the site and to exercise
those powers on the guardian’s behalf).

49.7

Section 48(1) to (4) and (7) apply in relation to any land taken into
guardianship by virtue of this section as they apply in relation to a
monument.

49.8

Apart from any termination of guardianship by virtue of section 48,
guardianship of any such land also ends if the monument in question—

49.8.a

ceases to be under guardianship otherwise than by virtue of being acquired by
its guardians, or

49.8.b

ceases to exist.

49.9

Where a monument is owned by, or under the guardianship of, the Welsh
Ministers or a local authority by virtue of this Chapter, references in this
Chapter to land associated with that monument (or to associated land) are
references to—

49.9.a

any land acquired or taken into guardianship by virtue of this section for a
purpose mentioned in subsection (2), or

49.9.b

any land appropriated for any such purpose under a power conferred by any
other enactment.

###### Acquisition of easements and other similar rights over land in the vicinity of a monument

50

50.1

The Welsh Ministers may acquire an easement over land adjoining or in the
vicinity of any monument which is under their ownership by virtue of this
Chapter, if they consider the easement to be necessary—

50.1.a

for any of the purposes mentioned in section 49(2) relating to that monument,
or

50.1.b

for the use of any land associated with that monument for any of those
purposes.

50.2

An acquisition under subsection (1) may be made by agreement or compulsorily.

50.3

A local authority may acquire an easement over land adjoining or in the
vicinity of any monument which is under its ownership by virtue of this
Chapter, if the easement appears to it to be necessary—

50.3.a

for any of the purposes mentioned in section 49(2) relating to that monument,
or

50.3.b

for the use of any land associated with that monument for any of those
purposes.

50.4

An acquisition under subsection (3) may only be made by agreement.

50.5

The guardian of a monument or of any land may acquire, for the benefit of the
monument or land, a relevant right over land adjoining or in the vicinity of
the monument or land, if the guardian considers the right to be necessary—

50.5.a

for any of the purposes mentioned in section 49(2) relating to that monument
or land, or

50.5.b

for the use of any land associated with that monument or land for any of those
purposes.

50.6

For the purposes of subsection (5) “ relevant right ” means a right (of any
description) which would, if acquired by an owner of the monument or land in
question, be an easement.

50.7

The acquisition of a right under subsection (5)—

50.7.a

in the case of the Welsh Ministers, may be made by agreement or compulsorily;

50.7.b

in the case of a local authority, may be made only by agreement.

50.8

A right acquired under subsection (5)—

50.8.a

is to be treated for the purposes of its acquisition under this section and in
all other respects as if it were a legal easement, and

50.8.b

may be enforced by the guardians for the time being of the monument or land
for whose benefit it was acquired as if they were the freehold owner in
possession of that monument or land.

50.9

If the condition in subsection (10) is met in relation to a monument, a right
which under subsection (5) is acquired by agreement —

50.9.a

may be revoked by the grantor, subject to any provision to the contrary in the
agreement under which it was acquired, and

50.9.b

may be revoked by any successor in title of the grantor as respects any of the
land over which it is exercisable in which the the successor has an interest.

50.10

The condition mentioned in subsection (9) is that the monument—

50.10.a

ceases to be under guardianship otherwise than by virtue of being acquired by
its guardians, or

50.10.b

ceases to exist.

50.11

A right acquired under subsection (5) is a local land charge.

50.12

The powers of acquisition in this section include power to acquire an easement
or right by the grant of a new right.

50.13

The  Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (c. 67)  applies to any compulsory
acquisition under this section.

50.14

Part 1 of the  Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 (c. 56)  applies (so far as
relevant) to an acquisition by agreement under this section, other than
sections 4 to 8, section 10 and section 31 of that Act.

##### Agreements with occupiers of monuments or adjoining etc. land

###### Agreements concerning management of monuments of special historic interest and land in their vicinity

51

51.1

The Welsh Ministers may make an agreement under this section with—

51.1.a

any occupier of a monument of special historic interest, or

51.1.b

any occupier of land adjoining or in the vicinity of such a monument.

51.2

A local authority may make an agreement under this section with—

51.2.a

any occupier of a monument of special historic interest in or in the vicinity
of its area, or

51.2.b

any occupier of land adjoining or in the vicinity of any such monument.

51.3

An agreement under this section is referred to in this Part as a “ management
agreement ”.

51.4

Any person who has an interest in a monument of special historic interest or
in any land adjoining or in the vicinity of such a monument may be a party to
a management agreement (in addition to the occupier).

51.5

A management agreement may—

51.5.a

make provision about the maintenance and preservation of the monument and its
amenities (including, where an agreement is made by the Welsh Ministers,
provision granting scheduled monument consent under section 13(1) for
specified works of maintenance or preservation);

51.5.b

make provision about the carrying out of specified works, or the doing of any
specified thing, in relation to the monument or land;

51.5.c

provide for public access to the monument or land and the provision of
associated facilities, information or services to the public;

51.5.d

restrict access to, or use of, the monument or land;

51.5.e

prohibit the doing of any specified thing in relation to the monument or land;

51.5.f

provide for the Welsh Ministers or the local authority (as the case may be) to
make payments of specified amounts and on specified terms—

51.5.f.i

for or towards the cost of any work provided for under the agreement, or

51.5.f.ii

in consideration of any restriction, prohibition or obligation accepted by any
other party to the agreement.

51.6

A management agreement may also contain incidental and consequential
provision.

51.7

Where a management agreement made by the Welsh Ministers grants scheduled
monument consent subject to conditions, the agreement must specify those
conditions.

51.8

Subsection (9) applies where a management agreement expressly provides that
the agreement as a whole or any restriction, prohibition or obligation arising
under it is to be binding on the successors of any party to the agreement.

51.9

Every person deriving title to the monument or land in question from, through
or under that party is bound by the agreement, or by that restriction,
prohibition or obligation, unless the title is derived by virtue of any
disposal made by that party before the date of the agreement.

51.10

Section 84 of the  Law of Property Act 1925 (c. 20)  (power of Upper Tribunal
to discharge or modify restrictive covenants) does not apply to a management
agreement.

51.11

In this section “ specified ” means specified or described in a management
agreement.

##### Powers of limited owners

###### Powers of limited owners for purposes of sections 45, 50 and 51

52

52.1

A person may establish guardianship of a monument or land under section 45 or
join in executing a guardianship deed under that section, despite being a
limited owner of the monument or land.

52.2

A person may grant an easement or other right over land which the Welsh
Ministers are or any local authority is authorised to acquire under section
50, despite being a limited owner of the land.

52.3

A person may make a management agreement under section 51 with respect to a
monument or land, despite being a limited owner of the monument or land.

52.4

For the purposes of this section—

52.4.a

a body corporate or corporation sole is a limited owner of any land in which
it has an interest, and

52.4.b

any other persons are limited owners of land in which they have an interest if
they hold that interest in any of the ways mentioned in subsection (5).

52.5

The ways of holding an interest in land referred to in subsection (4)(b) are—

52.5.a

as tenant for life or statutory owner (within the meaning of the  Settled Land
Act 1925 (c. 18) );

52.5.b

as trustees of land (within the meaning of the  Trusts of Land and Appointment
of Trustees Act 1996 (c. 47) );

52.5.c

as trustees for charities or commissioners or trustees for ecclesiastical,
collegiate or other public purposes.

52.6

Where a person who is a limited owner of any land by virtue of holding an
interest in the land in any of the ways mentioned in subsection (5) executes a
guardianship deed in relation to the land, the guardianship deed binds every
successive owner of any estate or interest in the land.

52.7

But where the land is, at the date of the deed, subject to any incumbrance not
capable of being overreached by the limited owner in exercise of any powers of
sale or management conferred on the limited owner by law or under any
settlement or other instrument, the deed does not bind the incumbrancer.

52.8

Where a management agreement under section 51 to which a limited owner is a
party expressly provides that the agreement as a whole or any restriction,
prohibition or obligation arising under the agreement binds the limited
owner’s successors, subsections (9) and (10) apply to the agreement or (as the
case may be) to the restriction, prohibition or obligation in question.

52.9

Where a person is a limited owner by virtue of holding an interest in any of
the ways mentioned in subsection (5), the agreement or restriction,
prohibition or obligation binds every successive owner of any estate or
interest in the land.

52.10

But where the land is, at the date of the agreement, subject to any
incumbrance not capable of being overreached by the limited owner in exercise
of powers of sale or management conferred on the limited owner by law or under
any settlement or other instrument, the agreement or restriction, prohibition
or obligation does not bind the incumbrancer.

##### Transfer of ownership or guardianship and disposal of land

###### Transfer of monuments of special historic interest between local authorities and the Welsh Ministers

53

53.1

Where the Welsh Ministers are the owners or guardians of a monument or
associated land, they may transfer the ownership or guardianship of that
monument or land to any local authority.

53.2

Where a local authority is the owner or guardian of a monument or associated
land, it may transfer the ownership or guardianship of that monument or land—

53.2.a

to the Welsh Ministers, or

53.2.b

to another local authority.

53.3

But the Welsh Ministers or a local authority may not transfer the guardianship
of a monument or associated land under this section without the agreement of
the persons who are for the time being immediately affected by the operation
of the guardianship deed.

53.4

For the purposes of subsection (3) a person is immediately affected by the
operation of a guardianship deed relating to a monument or land if the person
is bound by that deed and is in possession or occupation of the monument or
land.

###### Disposal of land acquired under this Chapter

54

54.1

The Welsh Ministers may dispose of any land acquired by them under section 43,
44 or 53.

54.2

A local authority may dispose of any land acquired by it under section 44 or
53, but must consult the Welsh Ministers before doing so.

54.3

Where the land disposed of under this section is or includes a monument, the
disposal must be made on terms the person disposing of the land considers will
ensure the preservation of the monument.

54.4

But subsection (3) does not apply if the person disposing of the land
considers that it is no longer practicable to preserve the monument (whether
because of the cost of preserving it or otherwise).

##### Public access to monuments under public control

###### Public access to monuments under public control

55

55.1

The Welsh Ministers and any local authority must ensure the public has access
to any monument which is under their or its ownership or guardianship by
virtue of this Chapter; but this is subject to—

55.1.a

the following provisions of this section,

55.1.b

any regulations or byelaws made under section 56, and

55.1.c

any provision to the contrary included in any agreement relating to the
monument made under section 25 or 51 (scheduled monument partnership
agreements and management agreements).

55.2

In relation to any monument under guardianship, the duty imposed by subsection
(1) is also subject to any provision to the contrary in the guardianship deed.

55.3

References in the following subsections to a monument are—

55.3.a

in relation to the Welsh Ministers, to a monument which—

55.3.a.i

is under their ownership or guardianship by virtue of this Chapter;

55.3.a.ii

is under their control or management otherwise than by virtue of this Chapter;

55.3.b

in relation to a local authority, to a monument which is under its ownership
or guardianship by virtue of this Chapter.

55.4

The Welsh Ministers or a local authority may control the times of normal
public access to a monument.

55.5

The Welsh Ministers or a local authority may exclude the public from access to
a monument, or to any part of it, for any period they consider or it considers
necessary—

55.5.a

in the interests of safety;

55.5.b

for its maintenance or preservation;

55.5.c

in connection with events held or other organised activities carried out in or
on it.

55.6

The Welsh Ministers or a local authority may also impose other restrictions or
controls on public access to a monument, or to any part of it, for a purpose
mentioned in subsection (5).

55.7

The Welsh Ministers or a local authority may charge the public for admission
to a monument.

55.8

The Welsh Ministers or a local authority may refuse a person admission to a
monument if they have or it has reason to believe that the person is likely to
do anything likely to damage the monument or its amenities or to disturb the
public in their enjoyment of it.

###### Power to make regulations and byelaws in connection with public access to monuments under public control

56

56.1

The Welsh Ministers may regulate public access to any monument under their
ownership or guardianship by virtue of this Chapter by making regulations that
prohibit or regulate any act or thing likely to damage the monument or its
amenities or disturb the public in their enjoyment of it.

56.2

Regulations under subsection (1) may also make provision in relation to any
monument under the control or management of the Welsh Ministers otherwise than
by virtue of this Chapter.

56.3

A local authority may regulate public access to any monument under its
ownership or guardianship by virtue of this Chapter by making byelaws that
prohibit or regulate any act or thing likely to damage the monument or its
amenities or disturb the public in their enjoyment of it.

56.4

A person who fails to comply with provision made by regulations or byelaws
under this section commits an offence.

56.5

A person guilty of an offence under subsection (4) is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 2 on the standard scale.

56.6

Byelaws made under this section may make different provision in relation to
different monuments or different descriptions of monument.

56.7

Byelaws under this section do not take effect unless they are confirmed by the
Welsh Ministers.

56.8

The Welsh Ministers may confirm the byelaws with or without modifications.

###### Provision of facilities for the public in connection with monuments of special historic interest

57

57.1

The Welsh Ministers may provide facilities, information and other services to
the public for or in connection with providing public access—

57.1.a

to any monument under their ownership or guardianship by virtue of this
Chapter, or

57.1.b

to any monument otherwise under their control or management.

57.2

A local authority may provide facilities, information and other services to
the public for or in connection with providing public access to any monument
under its ownership or guardianship by virtue of this Chapter.

57.3

Facilities and information or other services for the public may be provided
under this section in or on the monument itself or on any land associated with
the monument.

57.4

The Welsh Ministers or a local authority may charge for the use of any
facility or service provided by them or it under this section.

#### GENERAL

##### Damage to monuments

###### Offence of damaging certain monuments of special historic interest

58

58.1

A person who without lawful excuse destroys or damages a protected monument is
guilty of an offence if the person—

58.1.a

knew or ought reasonably to have known that it was a protected monument, and

58.1.b

intended to destroy or damage the monument or was reckless as to whether the
monument would be damaged or destroyed.

58.2

In subsection (1) “ protected monument ” means—

58.2.a

a scheduled monument, or

58.2.b

a monument under the ownership or guardianship of the Welsh Ministers or a
local authority by virtue of this Chapter.

58.3

This section applies to anything done by or under the authority of the owner
of the monument, other than an act for the carrying out of excepted works, as
it applies to anything done by any other person.

58.4

In subsection (3) “ excepted works ” means—

58.4.a

works authorised under Chapter 3;

58.4.b

works for which development consent has been granted under the  Planning Act
2008 (c. 29) .

58.5

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

58.5.a

on summary conviction, to a fine or imprisonment for a term not exceeding the
applicable limit under section 224(1A)(b) of the Sentencing Code, or both;

58.5.b

on conviction on indictment, to a fine or imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 2 years, or both.

###### Compensation orders for damage to monuments under guardianship

59

59.1

Subsection (2) applies where an owner or any other person is convicted of an
offence involving damage to a monument which was at the time of the offence
under the guardianship of the Welsh Ministers or any local authority by virtue
of Chapter 6.

59.2

Any compensation order made under Chapter 2 of Part 7 of the Sentencing Code
(compensation orders against convicted persons) in respect of that damage is
to be made in favour of the Welsh Ministers or the local authority in question
(as the case may require).

###### Restrictions on use of metal detectors

60

60.1

In this section—

      “ consent ” (“ cydsyniad ”) means the written consent of the Welsh
Ministers;
“ metal detector ” (“ datgelydd metel ”) means any device designed or adapted
for detecting or locating any metal or mineral in the ground;
“ protected place ” (“ man gwarchodedig ”) means—
the site of any scheduled monument, or
the site of any monument under the ownership or guardianship of the Welsh
Ministers or a local authority by virtue of Chapter 6.

60.2

A person commits an offence if the person uses a metal detector in a protected
place without consent to do so.

60.3

A person given consent to use a metal detector in a protected place commits an
offence if the person, in using the metal detector in that place, fails to
comply with any condition attached to the consent.

60.4

A person commits an offence if the person, without consent to do so, removes
any object of archaeological or historical interest which the person has
discovered by the use of a metal detector in a protected place.

60.5

A person given consent to remove or otherwise deal with any object which the
person discovers by the use of a metal detector in a protected place commits
an offence if, in removing or otherwise dealing with the object, the person
fails to comply with any condition attached to the consent.

60.6

In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (2) it is a defence for a
person to prove that the person used the metal detector for a purpose other
than detecting or locating objects of archaeological or historical interest.

60.7

In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (2) or (4) it is a defence
for a person to prove that the person—

60.7.a

had taken all reasonable steps to find out whether the place in which the
metal detector was used was a protected place, and

60.7.b

did not know, and had no reason to believe, that the place was a protected
place.

60.8

A person guilty of an offence under subsection (2) or (3) is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

60.9

A person guilty of an offence under subsection (4) or (5) is liable on summary
conviction, or on conviction on indictment, to a fine.

##### Urgent works for preservation of scheduled monument

###### Works for preservation of scheduled monument in cases of urgency

61

61.1

If it appears to the Welsh Ministers that any works to which section 11
(requirement for works to be authorised) applies are urgently necessary for
the preservation of a scheduled monument, they may enter the site of the
monument and carry out those works.

61.2

Before exercising the power in subsection (1) the Welsh Ministers must give at
least 7 clear days’ written notice to every owner and occupier of the
monument.

61.3

Where the Welsh Ministers carry out works under this section for repairing any
damage to a scheduled monument—

61.3.a

any compensation order previously made in respect of that damage under Chapter
2 of Part 7 of the Sentencing Code in favour of any other person is
enforceable (so far as not already complied with) as if it had been made in
favour of the Welsh Ministers, and

61.3.b

any such order subsequently made in respect of that damage must be made in
favour of the Welsh Ministers.

61.4

Where works are carried out under this section, the works are to be treated as
authorised works for the purposes of Chapter 3 (control of works affecting
scheduled monuments).

##### Expenditure and advice in relation to monuments

###### Expenditure on acquisition and preservation of monuments of special historic interest etc.

62

62.1

The Welsh Ministers may meet or contribute towards the cost of the acquisition
by any person of any monument of special historic interest.

62.2

The Welsh Ministers may—

62.2.a

remove or assist in the removal of any monument of special historic interest
or any part of any such monument to another place for the purpose of
preserving it;

62.2.b

meet or contribute towards the cost of the removal of any such monument or any
part of any such monument to another place for the purpose of preserving it.

62.3

The Welsh Ministers may at the request of an owner of any monument of special
historic interest—

62.3.a

undertake or assist in the preservation, maintenance and management of the
monument;

62.3.b

meet or contribute towards the cost of the preservation, maintenance and
management of the monument.

62.4

The Welsh Ministers may contribute towards the cost of the provision of
facilities or services for the public by a local authority under section 57.

62.5

A local authority may at the request of an owner of any monument of special
historic interest in or in the vicinity of its area—

62.5.a

undertake or assist in the preservation, maintenance and management of the
monument;

62.5.b

meet or contribute towards the cost of the preservation, maintenance and
management of the monument.

62.6

Neither the Welsh Ministers nor a local authority may incur expenditure under
this section in connection with any building or structure which is occupied as
a dwelling by any person other than the caretaker of the building or structure
or a member of the caretaker’s family.

###### Advice and supervision of work by Welsh Ministers

63

63.1

The Welsh Ministers may give advice about the treatment of any monument of
special historic interest.

63.2

The Welsh Ministers may also supervise any work in connection with any
monument of special historic interest if invited to do so by an owner of the
monument.

63.3

The Welsh Ministers must supervise work in connection with any scheduled
monument, if they consider it advisable (whether asked to do so by an owner or
not).

63.4

The Welsh Ministers may charge for giving advice or supervising work under
this section.

###### Expenditure by local authorities on archaeological investigation

64

64.1

If a local authority considers that any land in or in the vicinity of its area
may contain a monument of special historic interest, or anything else of
archaeological or historical interest, the authority may—

64.1.a

carry out or assist in an archaeological investigation of the land, or

64.1.b

meet or contribute towards the cost of an archaeological investigation of the
land.

64.2

A local authority may publish the results of any archaeological investigation
carried out, assisted or wholly or partly funded by it under this section.

64.3

The powers in subsection (1) may be exercised in relation to any land forming
part of the sea bed within the seaward limits of the territorial sea adjacent
to Wales.

##### Powers of entry

###### Powers of entry for inspection of scheduled monuments etc.

65

65.1

An authorised person may enter any land to inspect a scheduled monument in, on
or under the land to assess its condition and assess—

65.1.a

whether any works affecting the monument are being carried out in breach of
section 11 (requirement for works to be authorised), or

65.1.b

whether it has been or is likely to be damaged (by such works or otherwise).

65.2

An authorised person may enter any land to inspect a scheduled monument in, on
or under the land in connection with—

65.2.a

an application for scheduled monument consent for works affecting that
monument,

65.2.b

a proposal to modify or revoke a scheduled monument consent for any such
works, or

65.2.c

a proposal to make an order under section 27 (termination of scheduled
monument partnership agreement or provision of agreement).

65.3

An authorised person may enter any land to assess whether any works to which a
scheduled monument consent or an authorisation under section 12 relates are or
have been carried out in accordance with the terms of the consent or
authorisation (including any conditions).

65.4

An authorised person may enter any land on which any works to which a
scheduled monument consent or an authorisation under section 12 relates are
being carried out to—

65.4.a

inspect the land (including any buildings or other structures on the land) to
record any matters of archaeological or historical interest, or

65.4.b

observe the carrying out of those works with a view to—

65.4.b.i

examining and recording any objects or other material of archaeological or
historical interest discovered during the course of those works, and

65.4.b.ii

recording any matters of archaeological or historical interest discovered
during the course of those works.

65.5

An authorised person may enter any land in, on or under which a scheduled
monument is situated to erect and maintain on or near the site of the monument
any notice boards and marker posts the Welsh Ministers consider to be
desirable to protect the monument from accidental or deliberate damage.

65.6

The power in subsection (5) may not be exercised without the agreement of
every owner and occupier of the land.

65.7

In this section “ authorised person ” means a person authorised in writing by
the Welsh Ministers.

###### Powers of entry relating to enforcement of controls on works

66

66.1

An authorised person may enter any land to—

66.1.a

determine whether a temporary stop notice should be issued;

66.1.b

display a copy of a temporary stop notice in accordance with section 31 or
attach it for the purpose of service in accordance with section 206(5)(c);

66.1.c

assess whether a temporary stop notice has been complied with.

66.2

An authorised person may enter any land to—

66.2.a

determine whether an enforcement notice should be issued;

66.2.b

attach an enforcement notice for the purpose of service in accordance with
section 206(5)(c);

66.2.c

assess whether an enforcement notice has been complied with.

66.3

In this section “ authorised person ” means a person authorised in writing by
the Welsh Ministers.

###### Power of entry on land believed to contain monument of special historic interest

67

67.1

An authorised person may enter any land in, on or under which the Welsh
Ministers know or have reason to believe there is a monument of special
historic interest to inspect the land (including any building or other
structure on it) with a view to recording any matters of archaeological or
historical interest.

67.2

An authorised person entering any land in exercise of the power in subsection
(1) may carry out excavations in the land for the purposes of archaeological
investigation.

67.3

An excavation under subsection (2) requires the agreement of every person
whose agreement to the making of the excavation would be required apart from
this section.

67.4

But subsection (3) does not apply if the Welsh Ministers know or have reason
to believe that a monument of special historic interest they know or believe
to be in, on or under the land is or may be at risk of imminent damage or
destruction.

67.5

In this section “ authorised person ” means a person authorised in writing by
the Welsh Ministers.

###### Power of entry for survey and valuation in connection with claim for compensation

68

68.1

An authorised person may enter any land to survey it, or estimate its value,
in connection with a claim for compensation under this Part for any damage to
that land or any other land.

68.2

In this section “ authorised person ” means—

68.2.a

an officer of the Valuation Office of His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs, or

68.2.b

a person authorised in writing by the Welsh Ministers.

68.3

The power to survey land under this section includes power to search and bore
to determine the nature of the subsoil or the presence of minerals.

###### Supplementary provision about powers of entry under this Part

69

69.1

A power to enter land under this Part may be exercised at any reasonable time;
but this subsection does not apply to section 65(5).

69.2

A person authorised to enter land under this Part may not demand admission as
of right to any land which is occupied unless notice of the intended entry has
been given to every occupier—

69.2.a

where the purpose of the entry is to carry out any works on the land (other
than excavations in exercise of the power under section 67), at least 14 days
before the day of the intended entry, or

69.2.b

in any other case (including excavations in exercise of the power under
section 67), at least 24 hours before the day of the intended entry.

69.3

Subsection (2) does not apply to entry under—

69.3.a

section 61 (but see subsection (2) of that section), or

69.3.b

section 66(1).

69.4

A person authorised to enter land under this Part may not enter any building
or structure or part of a building or structure occupied as a dwelling without
the agreement of every occupier; but this subsection does not apply to the
power in section 68.

69.5

A person authorised to enter land under this Part must—

69.5.a

if required to do so by or on behalf of an owner or occupier of the land,
produce evidence of the person’s authorisation and state the purpose of the
entry before entering the land;

69.5.b

if leaving the land at a time when no owner or occupier is present, leave it
as effectively secured against trespassers as the person found it.

69.6

A person entering land in exercise of a power of entry under this Part may
take assistance or equipment reasonably required for the purpose to which the
entry relates.

69.7

Where a person carries out any archaeological investigation or examination of
land in the exercise of a power of entry under this Part, the person may take
and remove any samples which appear to the person to be reasonably required
for the purpose of archaeological analysis.

69.8

Where—

69.8.a

a power of entry under this Part is exercisable by a person (“P1”) in relation
to any land, and

69.8.b

works are being carried out on the land by another person (“P2”),

P1 must, in exercising the power of entry, comply with any reasonable
requirements or conditions imposed by P2 for the purpose of preventing
interference or delay to the works.

69.9

Subsection (8) does not apply where the works in question are being carried
out in breach of section 11 (requirement for works to be authorised).

69.10

For the purposes of subsection (8), a requirement or condition is not
reasonable if complying with it would frustrate the exercise of the power of
entry or the purpose of entry.

69.11

A person who intentionally obstructs a person exercising a power of entry
under this Part commits an offence.

69.12

A person guilty of an offence under subsection (11) is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

69.13

Where a person—

69.13.a

in the exercise of the power of entry under section 68, proposes to carry out
works authorised by subsection (3) of that section, and

69.13.b

is required to give notice of the intended entry under subsection (2)(a) of
this section,

the person may not carry out the works unless the notice of intended entry
includes notice of the person’s intention to carry them out.

69.14

Where—

69.14.a

in the exercise of the power of entry under section 68, a person proposes to
carry out any works authorised by subsection (3) of that section on land that
belongs to a statutory undertaker, and

69.14.b

the undertaker objects to the proposal on the ground that carrying out of the
works would be seriously detrimental to the carrying on of its undertaking,

the person may not carry out the works without the agreement of the Welsh
Ministers.

###### Compensation for damage caused by exercise of certain powers under this Part

70

70.1

This section applies to any power to enter, or to do anything on, any land
under section 40 or sections 65 to 68.

70.2

Any person interested in land is entitled, on making a claim to the Welsh
Ministers, to be paid compensation by them for any damage caused to the land
or to property on it in the exercise of a power to which this section applies.

70.3

A claim for compensation under this section must be made in writing within 6
months beginning with the day the damage was caused (or if the damage was
caused over more than one day, the last day it was caused).

###### Treatment and preservation of finds

71

71.1

This section applies where a person enters land in exercise of a power of
entry under this Part—

71.1.a

to carry out excavations in the land or works affecting a monument of special
historic interest situated in, on or under the land,

71.1.b

to assess or observe works on the land under section 65(3) or (4)(b), or

71.1.c

to carry out an archaeological examination of the land.

71.2

The person may—

71.2.a

take temporary custody of any object of archaeological or historical interest
discovered during the course of the excavations, works or examination, and

71.2.b

remove the object from its site for the purpose of examining, testing,
treating, recording or preserving it.

71.3

The appropriate authority may not, without the agreement of every owner,
retain the object for longer than is reasonably required to—

71.3.a

examine and record it, and

71.3.b

carry out any test or treatment which appears to the authority to be
desirable—

71.3.b.i

for the purpose of archaeological investigation or analysis, or

71.3.b.ii

to restore or preserve the object.

71.4

In subsection (3) “ appropriate authority ” means—

71.4.a

in a case where the power of entry was exercised by or on behalf of the Welsh
Ministers, the Welsh Ministers, and

71.4.b

in a case where the power of entry was exercised by or on behalf of a local
authority, that authority.

71.5

This section does not affect any right of the Crown under the  Treasure Act
1996 (c. 24) .

##### Supplementary

###### Validity of certain decisions and orders under this Part

72

72.1

The validity of a decision or order to which this section applies may not be
questioned in any legal proceedings except an application for statutory review
under section 73.

72.2

The decisions to which this section applies are—

72.2.a

a decision of the Welsh Ministers on an application for scheduled monument
consent, and

72.2.b

a decision on a review under section 9.

72.3

This section applies to an order under section 20 modifying or revoking a
scheduled monument consent.

72.4

This section does not prevent any court exercising any jurisdiction in
relation to a refusal or failure to make a decision to which this section
applies.

###### Application to High Court for statutory review of decision or order

73

73.1

A person aggrieved by a decision or order to which section 72 applies may make
an application for statutory review.

73.2

An application for statutory review is an application to the High Court
questioning the validity of the decision or order on the grounds that—

73.2.a

it is not within the powers conferred by this Act, or

73.2.b

a relevant requirement has not been complied with in relation to the decision
or order.

73.3

An application for statutory review must be made before the end of 6 weeks
beginning with the day after the day the decision or order to which the
application relates is made.

73.4

On any application for statutory review the High Court—

73.4.a

may make an interim order suspending the operation of the decision or order to
which the application relates, until the proceedings are finally determined;

73.4.b

may quash that decision or order if satisfied that—

73.4.b.i

it is not within the powers conferred by this Act, or

73.4.b.ii

the interests of the applicant have been substantially prejudiced by a failure
to comply with a relevant requirement in relation to the decision or order.

73.5

In this section “ relevant requirement ” means any requirement of—

73.5.a

this Act or the  Tribunals and Inquiries Act 1992 (c. 53) , or

73.5.b

any subordinate legislation made under this Act or under that Act.

###### Crown land

74

74.1

This Part applies in relation to Crown land only to the extent set out below.

74.2

A monument situated in, on or under Crown land may be included in the
schedule.

74.3

Any restrictions or powers imposed or conferred by this Part apply and are
exercisable in relation to Crown land and in relation to anything done on
Crown land otherwise than by or on behalf of the Crown, but not so as to
affect any interest of the Crown in the land.

74.4

This section does not permit—

74.4.a

a power under this Part to enter, or to do anything on, any land to be
exercised in relation to Crown land, or

74.4.b

an interest in Crown land held otherwise than by or on behalf of the Crown to
be acquired compulsorily under this Part,

without the agreement of the appropriate Crown authority.

###### Interpretation of this Part

75

75.1

In this Part—

      “ archaeological examination ” (“ archwiliad archaeolegol ”) has the
meaning given by subsection (3);
“ archaeological investigation ” (“ ymchwiliad archaeolegol ”) has the meaning
given by subsection (2);
“ enforcement notice ” (“ hysbysiad gorfodi ”) means an enforcement notice
issued under section 35;
“ flooding operations ” (“ gweithrediadau i foddi tir ”) means covering land
with water or another liquid or partially liquid substance;
“ guardian ” (“ gwarcheidwad ”) is to be interpreted in accordance with
sections 45 and 49;
“ guardianship deed ” (“ gweithred warcheidiaeth ”) has the meaning given by
section 45(7);
“ interim protection ” (“ gwarchodaeth interim ”) has the meaning given by
section 6(3);
“ local authority ” (“ awdurdod lleol ”) means—
a county council or county borough council in Wales, and
a National Park authority in Wales;
“ monument of special historic interest ” (“ heneb o ddiddordeb hanesyddol
arbennig ”) has the meaning given by subsection (6);
“ possession ” (“ meddiant ”) includes receipt of rents and profits or the
right to receive rents and profits (if any);
“ the schedule ” (“ y gofrestr ”) has the meaning given by section 3;
“ scheduled monument consent ” (“ cydsyniad heneb gofrestredig ”) has the
meaning given by section 13;
“ temporary stop notice ” (“ hysbysiad stop dros dro ”) means a temporary stop
notice issued under section 31;
“ tipping operations ” (“ gweithrediadau tipio ”) means tipping soil or spoil
or depositing building or other materials or matter (including waste) on any
land;
“ works ” (“ gwaith ”) includes—
flooding or tipping operations,
any operations carried out for the purposes of agriculture (within the meaning
of the  Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (c. 8) ) or forestry (including
afforestation), and
operations of any other description.

75.2

In this Part “ archaeological investigation ” means any investigation of land,
objects or other material for the purpose of obtaining and recording any
information of archaeological or historical interest and includes in the case
of an archaeological investigation of land—

75.2.a

any investigation for the purpose of discovering and revealing and (where
appropriate) recovering and removing any objects or other material of
archaeological or historical interest situated in, on or under the land, and

75.2.b

examining, testing, treating, recording and preserving any such objects or
material discovered during the course of any excavations or inspections
carried out for the purposes of any such investigation.

75.3

In this Part “ archaeological examination ”, in relation to land, means any
examination or inspection of the land (including buildings or other structures
on the land) for the purpose of obtaining and recording any information of
archaeological or historical interest.

75.4

In this Part (other than in Chapter 4) references to land associated with a
monument (or to associated land) are to be interpreted in accordance with
section 49(9).

75.5

In this Part references to a monument, in relation to the acquisition or
transfer of any monument (whether under this Part or otherwise), include any
interest in or right over the monument.

75.6

In this Part “ monument of special historic interest ” means—

75.6.a

any scheduled monument, and

75.6.b

any other monument wholly or mainly in Wales which the Welsh Ministers
consider to be of public interest by reason of the historic, architectural,
traditional, artistic or archaeological interest attaching to it.

75.7

But the reference to a monument in subsection (6)(b) does not include a
monument situated in, on or under the bed of the sea below the low water mark.

### BUILDINGS OF SPECIAL ARCHITECTURAL OR HISTORIC INTEREST

#### LISTING BUILDINGS OF SPECIAL INTEREST

##### List of buildings

###### Duty to maintain and publish list of buildings

76

76.1

The Welsh Ministers must maintain a list of buildings which must include every
building in Wales they consider to be of special architectural or historic
interest, and must publish the up-to-date list.

76.2

The Welsh Ministers may amend the list by—

76.2.a

adding a building,

76.2.b

removing a building, or

76.2.c

amending the entry for a building.

76.3

In considering whether a building should be included in the list, the Welsh
Ministers may take into account not only the building itself but also—

76.3.a

any way in which the exterior of the building contributes to the architectural
or historic interest of any group of buildings of which it forms part, and

76.3.b

the desirability of preserving any artificial feature of the building on the
ground of its architectural or historic interest.

76.4

In subsection (3)(b) “ artificial feature ” means any feature of the building
consisting of a structure or artificial object that—

76.4.a

is fixed to the building, or

76.4.b

forms part of the land and is within the curtilage of the building.

76.5

In this Act “ listed building ” means a building included in the list
maintained under this section, and includes—

76.5.a

any structure or artificial object‍ that is fixed to the building and
ancillary to it;

76.5.b

any other structure or artificial object that—

76.5.b.i

forms part of the land and has done so since before l July 1948, and

76.5.b.ii

was within the curtilage of the building, and ancillary to it, on the date on
which the building was first included in the list, or on 1 January 1969,
whichever was later.

76.6

In this Part—

76.6.a

“listing” a building means amending the list by adding the building;

76.6.b

“de-listing” a building means amending the list by removing the building.

###### Notification of listing or de-listing of building

77

77.1

As soon as possible after the Welsh Ministers list or de-list a building, they
must serve notice that they have done so on—

77.1.a

every owner and occupier of the building, and

77.1.b

every relevant local authority in whose area the building is situated.

77.2

Where the Welsh Ministers have listed a building—

77.2.a

the notice must specify the date on which they did so, and

77.2.b

they must include with the notice a copy of the entry for the building in the
list maintained under section 76.

77.3

A copy of an entry served under this section is a local land charge, and for
the purposes of the  Local Land Charges Act 1975 (c. 76)  the county council
or county borough council on which the copy is served is the originating
authority as respects the charge.

77.4

A relevant local authority must keep available for public inspection—

77.4.a

copies of entries in the list that have been served on it under this section,
and

77.4.b

copies of any parts of the list that were deposited with it under section 2(1)
of the  Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990 (c. 9)  or
a corresponding provision of any earlier Act, so far as those parts remain up-
to-date.

77.5

The copies must be available for inspection—

77.5.a

free of charge,

77.5.b

at reasonable times, and

77.5.c

at a convenient place.

77.6

In this section “ relevant local authority ” means—

77.6.a

a county council or county borough council;

77.6.b

a National Park authority;

77.6.c

a joint planning board.

##### Proposals to list and de-list buildings: consultation and interim protection

###### Consultation before listing or de-listing building

78

78.1

Where the Welsh Ministers are proposing to list or de-list a building, they
must serve a notice on the persons mentioned in subsection (2) which—

78.1.a

sets out the proposed amendment to the list maintained under section 76, and

78.1.b

invites those persons to make written representations about the proposal.

78.2

The persons are—

78.2.a

every owner and occupier of the building,

78.2.b

every planning authority in whose area the building is situated, and

78.2.c

any other persons the Welsh Ministers consider appropriate as having special
knowledge of, or special interest in, buildings of architectural or historic
interest.

78.3

A notice under subsection (1) must—

78.3.a

specify the period within which representations may be made, and

78.3.b

in the case of a proposal to list a building—

78.3.b.i

include a statement of the effect of section 79 (interim protection), and

78.3.b.ii

specify the date on which interim protection takes effect under that section.

78.4

The period specified under subsection (3)(a) must be at least 28 days
beginning with the day the notice is served.

###### Interim protection pending decision whether to list building

79

79.1

This section applies where the Welsh Ministers serve notice under section
78(1) of a proposal to list a building.

79.2

From the beginning of the day specified under section 78(3)(b)(ii), this Act
(except sections 118 and 137 to 142) and the  Town and Country Planning Act
1990 (c. 8)  have effect in relation to the building as if it were a listed
building.

79.3

The protection conferred by virtue of subsection (2) is referred to in this
Part as “ interim protection ”.

79.4

The Welsh Ministers must—

79.4.a

publish a list of the buildings subject to interim protection, and

79.4.b

provide a copy of the notice served under section 78(1) in respect of such a
building to any person who requests one.

79.5

Interim protection ends in relation to a building—

79.5.a

where the Welsh Ministers list the building, at the beginning of the day
specified in the notice under section 77(1);

79.5.b

where the Welsh Ministers decide not to list the building, at the beginning of
the day specified in a notice served on—

79.5.b.i

every owner and occupier of the building, and

79.5.b.ii

every planning authority in whose area the building is situated.

79.6

Schedule 7 makes provision about the effect of interim protection coming to an
end under subsection (5)(b).

79.7

This section does not apply to a building which is a scheduled monument.

###### Compensation for loss or damage caused by interim protection

80

80.1

This section applies where interim protection ends in relation to a building
because the Welsh Ministers serve notice under section 79(5)(b) that they have
decided not to list the building.

80.2

Any person who had an interest in the building when the interim protection
took effect is entitled, on making a claim to the Welsh Ministers, to be paid
compensation by them for any loss or damage suffered by the person that is
directly attributable to the interim protection.

80.3

The loss or damage for which compensation is payable includes any amount
payable by the claimant in respect of a breach of contract caused by the need
to stop or cancel works to the building because of the interim protection.

80.4

A claim for compensation under this section must be made in writing within 6
months beginning when the interim protection ends.

80.5

Where the building was previously subject to temporary listing under section
83 which ended because the interim protection took effect—

80.5.a

the reference in subsection (2) to the time when the interim protection took
effect is to be treated as a reference to the time when the temporary listing
took effect;

80.5.b

the reference in that subsection to loss or damage directly attributable to
the interim protection includes loss or damage directly attributable to the
temporary listing;

80.5.c

the reference in subsection (3) to the need to stop or cancel works because of
the interim protection includes the need to do so because of the temporary
listing.

##### Review of listing decisions

###### Review of decision to list building

81

81.1

Where the Welsh Ministers list a building, the notice under section 77(1) must
state that any owner or occupier of the building may make an application to
the Welsh Ministers requesting a review of the decision.

81.2

An application may be made only on the ground that the building is not of
special architectural or historic interest.

81.3

Where an owner or occupier makes an application for a review, the Welsh
Ministers must appoint a person to—

81.3.a

carry out the review, and

81.3.b

make a decision on the review.

81.4

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations specify descriptions of cases in which
they, instead of a person appointed by them, must carry out and make a
decision on a review.

81.5

The Welsh Ministers must make any amendment to the list maintained under
section 76 they consider appropriate to give effect to a decision on a review.

81.6

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations amend subsection (2) to—

81.6.a

add a ground of review;

81.6.b

modify a ground of review;

81.6.c

remove a ground of review.

###### Supplementary provision about reviews

82

82.1

The Welsh Ministers must by regulations make provision about—

82.1.a

the form and way in which an application under section 81 must be made;

82.1.b

the information that must be provided to, or may be required by, the Welsh
Ministers in connection with an application;

82.1.c

the period within which an application must be made.

82.2

A review under section 81 must be carried out in one or more of the following
ways (as determined by the person carrying out the review)—

82.2.a

by means of a local inquiry;

82.2.b

by means of a hearing;

82.2.c

on the basis of written representations.

82.3

Where a review is carried out by a person appointed by the Welsh Ministers,
the appointed person has the same powers and duties in relation to the review
as the Welsh Ministers have under—

82.3.a

any regulations made under section 175 (procedural requirements), and

82.3.b

sections 180 and 181 (costs of Welsh Ministers and parties).

82.4

Where a review is carried out by means of a local inquiry, section 177 (power
to require evidence) applies to the inquiry as it applies to an inquiry held
under Part 5.

82.5

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations make further provision in connection
with reviews under section 81.

82.6

Schedule 2 makes further provision about the functions of persons appointed by
the Welsh Ministers to carry out reviews under section 81.

##### Temporary listing

###### Service of temporary listing notice

83

83.1

This section applies if a planning authority considers that a building in its
area which is not a listed building (and is not treated as one by virtue of
section 79(2)) is—

83.1.a

of special architectural or historic interest, and

83.1.b

in danger of being demolished or of being altered in a way that would affect
its character as a building of special architectural or historic interest.

83.2

The authority may serve a temporary listing notice on every owner and occupier
of the building.

83.3

A temporary listing notice is a notice which—

83.3.a

states that the planning authority—

83.3.a.i

considers the building to be of special architectural or historic interest,
and

83.3.a.ii

has requested the Welsh Ministers to consider listing it, and

83.3.b

explains the effect of subsection (4), section 85 and Schedule 7.

83.4

As soon as a temporary listing notice has been served on every owner and
occupier of the building to which it relates, this Act (except sections 118
and 137 to 142) and the  Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (c. 8)  have
effect in relation to the building as if it were a listed building.

83.5

The protection conferred by virtue of subsection (4) is referred to in this
Part as “ temporary listing ”.

83.6

This section and section 84 do not apply to—

83.6.a

a building which is a scheduled monument, or

83.6.b

an exempt religious building.

###### Temporary listing in urgent cases

84

84.1

This section applies if a planning authority considers it urgent that
temporary listing should take effect in relation to a building in its area.

84.2

The authority may, instead of serving a temporary listing notice on each owner
and occupier of the building—

84.2.a

attach the notice conspicuously to the building, or

84.2.b

if it is not reasonably practicable to attach the notice to the building, or
the authority considers that doing so might damage the building, display the
notice in a prominent place as near to the building as is reasonably
practicable.

84.3

Attaching or displaying a notice in accordance with subsection (2) is to be
treated for the purposes of section 83(4) as serving the notice on every owner
and occupier of the building.

84.4

The notice must explain that by virtue of having been attached or displayed in
accordance with subsection (2) the notice is treated as having been served for
those purposes.

###### End of temporary listing

85

85.1

Temporary listing of a building has effect until the end of the 6 months
beginning with the day it takes effect under section 83(4), unless it ends
under subsection (2) or (3).

85.2

If the Welsh Ministers serve notice under section 78(1) of a proposal to list
the building, temporary listing ends when interim protection takes effect in
relation to the building (and the building continues to be treated as if it
were a listed building for certain purposes by virtue of section 79(2)).

85.3

If the Welsh Ministers notify the planning authority in writing that they do
not intend to consult under section 78 on a proposal to list the building,
temporary listing ends at the beginning of the day specified in the
notification.

85.4

Schedule 7 makes provision about the effect of temporary listing coming to an
end—

85.4.a

at the end of the 6-month period mentioned in subsection (1), or

85.4.b

because the Welsh Ministers give notification under subsection (3) that they
do not intend to consult on a proposal to list the building.

85.5

If temporary listing ends in relation to a building because the Welsh
Ministers notify the planning authority that they do not intend to consult on
a proposal to list the building—

85.5.a

the authority must immediately give notice of that decision to every owner and
occupier of the building;

85.5.b

the authority may not serve another temporary listing notice in respect of the
building during the 12 months beginning with the day the Welsh Ministers give
the notification.

###### Compensation for loss or damage caused by temporary listing

86

86.1

This section applies where temporary listing ends in relation to a building—

86.1.a

at the end of the 6-month period mentioned in section 85(1), or

86.1.b

because the Welsh Ministers give notification under section 85(3) that they do
not intend to consult on a proposal to list the building.

86.2

Any person who had an interest in the building when the temporary listing took
effect is entitled, on making a claim to the planning authority in whose area
the building is situated, to be paid compensation by the authority for any
loss or damage suffered by the person that is directly attributable to the
temporary listing.

86.3

The loss or damage for which compensation is payable includes any amount
payable by the claimant in respect of a breach of contract caused by the need
to stop or cancel works to the building because of the temporary listing.

86.4

A claim for compensation under this section must be made in writing within 6
months beginning when the temporary listing ends.

##### Buildings not intended to be listed

###### Certificate that Welsh Ministers do not intend to list building

87

87.1

The Welsh Ministers may, on the application of any person, issue a certificate
stating that they do not intend to list a building.

87.2

During the 5 years beginning with the day the certificate is issued—

87.2.a

the Welsh Ministers may not list the building or serve notice under section
78(1) of a proposal to list the building;

87.2.b

a planning authority in whose area the building is situated may not serve a
temporary listing notice in relation to the building.

87.3

An applicant for a certificate must give notice of the application to every
planning authority in whose area the building is situated at the same time as
submitting the application to the Welsh Ministers.

#### CONTROL OF WORKS AFFECTING LISTED BUILDINGS

##### Authorisation of works

###### Requirement for works to be authorised

88

88.1

A person must not carry out works to which this section applies, or cause such
works to be carried out, unless the works are authorised under section 89.

88.2

This section applies to—

88.2.a

works for the alteration or extension of a listed building in any way that
would affect its character as a building of special architectural or historic
interest;

88.2.b

works for the demolition of a listed building.

88.3

But this section does not apply to—

88.3.a

works in relation to a building which is a scheduled monument (but see section
11);

88.3.b

works in relation to an exempt religious building;

88.3.c

works for the demolition of a building closed for regular public worship, or a
part of such a building, in accordance with provision made under Part 6 of the
Mission and Pastoral Measure 2011 (No. 3)  by a pastoral church buildings
scheme or a pastoral (church buildings disposal) scheme;

88.3.d

works carried out by or on behalf of the Crown in the circumstances set out in
paragraphs (a) to (d) of section 117(4) (emergency works).

###### Authorisation of works by listed building consent

89

89.1

Works to which section 88 applies are authorised if—

89.1.a

written consent to carry them out has been granted by the planning authority
in whose area the building is situated or the Welsh Ministers, and

89.1.b

the works are carried out in accordance with the terms of the consent
(including any conditions attached to it).

89.2

Where—

89.2.a

works to which section 88 applies have been carried out without being
authorised under subsection (1), and

89.2.b

the planning authority or the Welsh Ministers grant written consent for the
works,

the works are authorised from the grant of that consent.

89.3

Consent under subsection (1) or (2) is referred to in this Act as listed
building consent.

##### Applications for listed building consent

###### Applying for listed building consent

90

90.1

An application for listed building consent must be made to the planning
authority in whose area the listed building is situated, unless it is made to
the Welsh Ministers in accordance with—

90.1.a

regulations made under section 105 (applications by planning authorities or
the Crown),

90.1.b

section 106 (applications relating to urgent works on Crown land),

90.1.c

section 305 or 306 of the  Housing Act 1985 (c. 68)  (applications by local
housing authorities for consent to demolish buildings in connection with
acquisition of land for clearance), or

90.1.d

any other enactment.

90.2

An application for listed building consent must contain—

90.2.a

enough information to identify the listed building to which it relates,
including a plan,

90.2.b

any other plans and drawings that are necessary to describe the works to which
it relates, and

90.2.c

any other information required by the planning authority or the Welsh
Ministers (as the case may be).

90.3

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations make provision about—

90.3.a

the form and content of an application (which may include provision for using
a form to be published or provided by the Welsh Ministers or another person);

90.3.b

how an application must be made.

90.4

The Welsh Ministers must by regulations require a person who makes an
application of a description specified in the regulations to include with the
application a statement about—

90.4.a

how the works will affect the character of the listed building as a building
of special architectural or historic interest, and

90.4.b

either or both of the following (as specified in the regulations)—

90.4.b.i

the design principles that have been applied to the works;

90.4.b.ii

how issues relating to access to the building have been dealt with.

90.5

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations make provision about—

90.5.a

the form and content of a statement required under subsection (4);

90.5.b

other documents or materials that must be included with an application.

90.6

A planning authority must not consider an application made to it for listed
building consent if the application fails to comply with a requirement imposed
by or under this section.

###### Notice of application to owners of building

91

91.1

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations require an applicant for listed
building consent—

91.1.a

to give notice of the application to every person (other than the applicant)
who on a date specified in the regulations is an owner of any part of the
listed building to which the application relates, and

91.1.b

to include with the application a certificate issued by the applicant stating
that any requirements of the regulations have been complied with.

91.2

The regulations may make provision about—

91.2.a

the form and content of a notice or certificate (which may include provision
for using a form to be published or provided by the Welsh Ministers or another
person);

91.2.b

how notice must be given (which may include provision requiring it to be
published).

91.3

An application for listed building consent must not be considered if any
requirements imposed under subsection (1) or (2) have not been complied with.

91.4

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations provide that, where notice has been
given of an application in accordance with requirements imposed under those
subsections—

91.4.a

the application must not be determined during a period specified in the
regulations;

91.4.b

the planning authority or the Welsh Ministers must, in determining the
application, take account of representations made during that period by any
person who is an owner of any part of the listed building.

91.5

It is an offence for a person in purported compliance with a requirement
imposed under subsection (1) or (2)—

91.5.a

to issue a certificate containing a statement which the person knows to be
false or misleading in a material respect, or

91.5.b

to recklessly issue a certificate containing a statement which is false or
misleading in a material respect.

91.6

A person guilty of an offence under subsection (5) is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

91.7

In this section “ owner ” means—

91.7.a

an owner of the freehold estate, or

91.7.b

a tenant under a lease granted or extended for a fixed term that has at least
7 years left to run.

##### Dealing with applications for consent

###### Procedure for dealing with application

92

92.1

A planning authority must deal with an application for listed building consent
made to the authority unless—

92.1.a

it is required not to consider the application under section 90(6) or 91(3),
or refuses to do so under section 93 (similar applications), or

92.1.b

it is required to refer the application to the Welsh Ministers under section
94.

92.2

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations—

92.2.a

impose requirements relating to publicity for applications for listed building
consent made to planning authorities or the Welsh Ministers;

92.2.b

impose requirements for consultation or notification in relation to
applications;

92.2.c

provide that an application must not be determined during a period specified
in the regulations;

92.2.d

require planning authorities or the Welsh Ministers, in determining
applications, to take account of responses from persons consulted or notified;

92.2.e

make provision about the time within which a planning authority or the Welsh
Ministers must deal with an application.

92.3

The Welsh Ministers may direct a planning authority to notify persons
specified in the direction of—

92.3.a

an application made to the authority for listed building consent, and

92.3.b

the decision taken by the authority on the application.

92.4

A direction may relate to—

92.4.a

a particular case, or

92.4.b

cases of a description specified in the direction.

###### Power to refuse to consider similar applications

93

93.1

A planning authority may refuse to consider an application for listed building
consent if the first and second conditions are met.

93.2

The first condition is that in the 2 years ending with the day the authority
receives the application any of the following has occurred—

93.2.a

the Welsh Ministers have refused a similar application for listed building
consent referred to them under section 94,

93.2.b

the Welsh Ministers have dismissed—

93.2.b.i

an appeal under section 100(2) against the refusal of a similar application
for listed building consent, or

93.2.b.ii

an appeal under section 100(3) relating to a similar application, or

93.2.c

the planning authority has refused two or more similar applications for listed
building consent and in each case—

93.2.c.i

there has been no appeal to the Welsh Ministers, or

93.2.c.ii

any appeal to the Welsh Ministers has been withdrawn.

93.3

The second condition is that the planning authority considers that there has
been no significant change in any relevant considerations since—

93.3.a

the Welsh Ministers refused the similar application, in a case falling within
subsection (2)(a),

93.3.b

the Welsh Ministers dismissed the appeal, in a case falling within subsection
(2)(b), or

93.3.c

the planning authority most recently refused a similar application, in a case
falling within subsection (2)(c).

93.4

For the purposes of this section an application is similar to another
application if (and only if) the planning authority considers that the listed
building and works to which the applications relate are the same or
substantially the same.

###### Reference of application to Welsh Ministers

94

94.1

The Welsh Ministers may direct a planning authority to refer an application
for listed building consent to them for determination instead of dealing with
the application itself.

94.2

A direction may relate to a particular application, or to applications in
relation to buildings specified in the direction.

94.3

A planning authority must refer an application to which a direction under this
section applies to the Welsh Ministers.

94.4

A planning authority must refer an application for listed building consent to
the Welsh Ministers for determination, without being directed to do so, if the
consent is sought in consequence of proposals included in an application for
an order under section 1 or 3 of the  Transport and Works Act 1992 (c. 42)
(orders relating to construction or operation of railways, tramways, inland
waterways etc.).

94.5

Chapter 2 of Part 5 makes provision about the procedure for the consideration
of applications referred to the Welsh Ministers under this section.

94.6

The decision of the Welsh Ministers on an application is final.

###### Notification to Welsh Ministers before granting consent

95

95.1

A planning authority to which an application for listed building consent is
made may not grant consent unless—

95.1.a

it has notified the Welsh Ministers of the application, giving details of the
works for which consent is sought, and

95.1.b

the first or second condition is met.

95.2

The first condition is that the 28 days beginning with the day the Welsh
Ministers were notified have ended without the Welsh Ministers either—

95.2.a

directing the authority to refer the application to them under section 94, or

95.2.b

notifying the authority that they need more time to consider whether to give a
direction under that section.

95.3

The second condition is that the Welsh Ministers have notified the authority
that they do not intend to direct it to refer the application to them.

95.4

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations provide that subsection (1) does not
apply to applications for listed building consent of a description specified
in the regulations.

95.5

The Welsh Ministers may direct a planning authority—

95.5.a

that subsection (1) is not to apply to an application to the authority for
listed building consent, or

95.5.b

that subsection (1) is to apply to an application to the authority despite any
provision made by regulations under subsection (4) or by a direction under
paragraph (a).

95.6

A direction may relate to—

95.6.a

a particular application for listed building consent, or

95.6.b

applications of a description specified in the direction,

and has effect in relation to any application that the authority has not
determined.

95.7

The Welsh Ministers may specify a description of applications under subsection
(4) or (6)(b) by reference to the opinion of any person, the availability of
specialist advice in relation to the applications, or any other circumstance.

###### Grant or refusal of consent

96

96.1

On determining an application for listed building consent, a planning
authority or the Welsh Ministers may grant or refuse consent.

96.2

In considering whether to grant listed building consent, a planning authority
or the Welsh Ministers must have special regard to the desirability of
preserving—

96.2.a

the listed building to which the application relates,

96.2.b

the setting of the building, and

96.2.c

any features of special architectural or historic interest the building
possesses.

96.3

Listed building consent has effect for the benefit of the listed building and
the land on which it is situated, and of all persons for the time being
interested in the building and land; but this is subject to the terms of the
consent.

##### Grant of listed building consent subject to conditions

###### Power to grant consent subject to conditions

97

97.1

Listed building consent may be granted subject to conditions.

97.2

A condition may, for example, require—

97.2.a

particular features of the listed building to be preserved, either as part of
it or after severance from it;

97.2.b

any damage caused to the building by the works to be made good after the works
are completed;

97.2.c

the building or any part of it to be reconstructed after any works are carried
out, using original materials so far as practicable and making any alterations
to the interior of the building specified in the conditions.

97.3

Consent may also be granted subject to a condition requiring specified details
of the works (whether or not set out in an application for consent) to be
approved later.

97.4

A condition imposed under subsection (3) must—

97.4.a

in the case of consent granted by a planning authority, require the approval
of that authority;

97.4.b

in the case of consent granted by the Welsh Ministers, specify whether the
approval required is that of the planning authority or the Welsh Ministers.

97.5

Consent for the demolition of a listed building must be granted subject to a
condition that the works must not start until—

97.5.a

notice of the proposal to demolish the building has been given to the Royal
Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of Wales, and

97.5.b

after the giving of that notice, the Royal Commission—

97.5.b.i

has been given reasonable access to the building for at least 1 month for the
purpose of recording it, or

97.5.b.ii

has stated in writing that it has completed its recording of the building or
does not wish to record it.

97.6

If consent for the demolition of a listed building is granted without the
condition required by subsection (5), it is to be treated as having been
granted subject to that condition.

97.7

Consent for the demolition of a listed building may also be granted subject to
a condition that the works must not start until—

97.7.a

a contract for works to redevelop the site has been made, and

97.7.b

planning permission has been granted for those redevelopment works.

97.8

Subsections (5) and (6) do not prevent the imposition of other conditions for
the purpose of enabling a listed building to be recorded.

97.9

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations replace the references in subsection
(5) to the Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of Wales
with references to another body.

###### Condition about period within which works must start

98

98.1

Listed building consent must be granted subject to the condition that the
works to which it relates must start before the end of a period which is
specified in the condition and begins with the day the consent is granted.

98.2

If consent is granted without the condition required by subsection (1), it is
to be treated as having been granted subject to the condition that the works
to which it relates must start within 5 years beginning with the day it was
granted.

98.3

This section does not apply to —

98.3.a

consent under section 89(2) (consent for works already carried out);

98.3.b

consent granted by a listed building partnership agreement (see section 113).

###### Application for variation or removal of conditions

99

99.1

Where listed building consent has been granted subject to conditions, any
person interested in the listed building may apply for the variation or
removal of the conditions.

99.2

The application must indicate what variation or removal of conditions is
applied for.

99.3

Sections 90 to 95 (except section 90(4) and (5)(a)) apply to an application
under this section as they apply to an application for listed building
consent.

99.4

On an application under this section the planning authority or the Welsh
Ministers may, in addition to varying or removing the conditions of the
consent, impose new conditions that are consequential on the variation or
removal.

99.5

This section does not apply to consent granted by a listed building
partnership agreement.

##### Appeals to the Welsh Ministers

###### Right to appeal against planning authority decision or failure to make decision

100

100.1

This section applies where an application has been made to a planning
authority for—

100.1.a

listed building consent,

100.1.b

the variation or removal of conditions of listed building consent, or

100.1.c

approval of details of works under a condition of listed building consent.

100.2

The applicant may appeal to the Welsh Ministers if the planning authority—

100.2.a

refuses the application, or

100.2.b

grants the application subject to conditions or, in the case of an application
for the variation or removal of conditions, grants it and imposes new
conditions.

100.3

The applicant may also appeal to the Welsh Ministers if the planning authority
has done none of the following within the determination period—

100.3.a

given notice to the applicant of its decision on the application, or

100.3.b

in the case of an application for listed building consent or for the variation
or removal of conditions, given notice to the applicant that it has—

100.3.b.i

exercised its power under section 93 to refuse to consider the application, or

100.3.b.ii

referred the application to the Welsh Ministers under section 94.

100.4

In subsection (3) “ the determination period ” means—

100.4.a

the period specified in regulations made by the Welsh Ministers, or

100.4.b

a longer period agreed in writing between the applicant and the planning
authority.

###### Procedure for making appeal

101

101.1

An appeal under section 100 must be made by serving a notice of appeal on the
Welsh Ministers.

101.2

The grounds of appeal stated in the notice may include (alone or with other
grounds)—

101.2.a

a claim that the building to which the appeal relates is not of special
architectural or historic interest and ought to be de-listed, or

101.2.b

in the case of a building subject to interim protection or temporary listing,
a claim that the building should not be listed.

101.3

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations make provision about—

101.3.a

the form of a notice of appeal (which may include provision for using a form
to be published or provided by the Welsh Ministers or another person);

101.3.b

information that must be included with a notice of appeal;

101.3.c

the way in which, and period within which, a notice of appeal must be served
(which may include provision enabling the Welsh Ministers to extend the
period).

101.4

Section 91 (notice to owners of building) applies in relation to appeals under
section 100 relating to applications for listed building consent or for the
variation or removal of conditions, but as if references to an application and
an applicant were references to an appeal and an appellant.

101.5

The period specified by regulations under subsection (3)(c) must be at least
28 days beginning with the day after—

101.5.a

in the case of an appeal under subsection (2) of section 100, the day the
applicant receives notice of the decision;

101.5.b

in the case of an appeal under subsection (3) of that section, the end of the
determination period (which has the same meaning as in that subsection).

###### Restriction on varying application after service of notice of appeal

102

102.1

Once notice of an appeal under section 100 has been served, the application to
which the appeal relates may not be varied except in circumstances specified
in regulations made by the Welsh Ministers.

102.2

Where an application is varied under this section, the Welsh Ministers may
direct that further consultation must be carried out in relation to the
application.

###### Decision on application after service of notice of appeal

103

103.1

This section applies if a person who has made an application for listed
building consent appeals under section 100(3) (failure to give notice of
decision).

103.2

The Welsh Ministers must not determine the appeal before the end of the period
which is specified in regulations made by the Welsh Ministers and begins with
the day the notice of appeal is served.

103.3

The planning authority may give notice of its decision on the application to
which the appeal relates at any time before the end of that period.

103.4

If the authority gives notice in accordance with subsection (3) that its
decision is to refuse the application—

103.4.a

the appeal must be treated as an appeal under section 100(2) against the
refusal, and

103.4.b

the Welsh Ministers must give the appellant the opportunity to revise the
grounds of appeal.

103.5

If the authority gives notice in accordance with subsection (3) that its
decision is to grant the application subject to conditions, the Welsh
Ministers must give the appellant the opportunity—

103.5.a

to proceed with the appeal as an appeal under section 100(2) against the grant
of the application subject to conditions, and

103.5.b

to revise the grounds of the appeal.

###### Determination of appeal

104

104.1

On an appeal under section 100 the Welsh Ministers may—

104.1.a

allow or dismiss the appeal, or

104.1.b

reverse or vary any part of the planning authority’s decision on the
application to which the appeal relates (whether or not the appeal relates to
that part),

and may deal with the application as if it had been made to them.

104.2

Where the appeal was made under section 100(3) (failure to give notice of
decision) and the planning authority has not given notice under section
103(3), it is to be assumed for the purposes of subsection (1) that the
authority decided to refuse the application.

104.3

On an appeal under section 100 the Welsh Ministers may also exercise their
power under section 76 to de-list the building to which the appeal relates.

104.4

Chapter 2 of Part 5 makes provision about the procedure for the consideration
of appeals (including provision for them to be determined by persons appointed
by the Welsh Ministers).

104.5

The decision of the Welsh Ministers on an appeal is final.

##### Special cases

###### Applications by planning authorities and the Crown

105

105.1

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations provide that any provision made by or
under this Act is not to apply, or is to apply with modifications, to an
application mentioned in subsection (2) that is made—

105.1.a

by a planning authority, or

105.1.b

by or on behalf of the Crown.

105.2

The applications referred to in subsection (1) are applications for—

105.2.a

listed building consent,

105.2.b

the variation or removal of conditions of listed building consent, or

105.2.c

approval of details of works under a condition of listed building consent.

105.3

The regulations may, in particular, provide for an application to be made to
the Welsh Ministers.

###### Applications relating to urgent works on Crown land

106

106.1

The appropriate Crown authority may make an application for listed building
consent to the Welsh Ministers (instead of to a planning authority) if—

106.1.a

the listed building to which the application relates is on Crown land, and

106.1.b

the appropriate Crown authority certifies—

106.1.b.i

that the works for which consent is sought are of national importance, and

106.1.b.ii

that it is necessary that the works are carried out as a matter of urgency.

106.2

Before making the application, the appropriate Crown authority must publish in
one or more newspapers circulating in the locality of the listed building a
notice—

106.2.a

describing the proposed works, and

106.2.b

stating that it proposes to make the application to the Welsh Ministers under
this section.

106.3

Where the appropriate Crown authority makes an application under this section—

106.3.a

it must give the Welsh Ministers a statement of its grounds for making the
application;

106.3.b

the Welsh Ministers may require it to give them any further information they
consider necessary to enable them to determine the application.

106.4

As soon as practicable after receiving a document or other material by virtue
of subsection (3), the Welsh Ministers must make a copy of the document or
other material available for inspection by the public in the locality of the
proposed works.

106.5

The Welsh Ministers must, in accordance with any requirements imposed by
regulations, publish notice of the application and of the fact that documents
and other material are available for inspection.

106.6

The Welsh Ministers must consult the following persons about the application—

106.6.a

the planning authority in whose area the listed building is situated, and

106.6.b

any other person that may be specified in regulations.

106.7

Chapter 2 of Part 5 makes provision about the procedure for the consideration
of applications made to the Welsh Ministers under this section.

106.8

Subsection (4) does not apply to the extent that a document or other material
is subject to a direction under section 178 (restriction of access to evidence
on national security grounds).

106.9

The decision of the Welsh Ministers on an application is final.

106.10

In this section references to regulations are to regulations made by the Welsh
Ministers.

##### Modification and revocation of listed building consent

###### Modification and revocation of consent

107

107.1

Where listed building consent has been granted on an application or appeal
under this Part, the planning authority in whose area the listed building is
situated or the Welsh Ministers may by order modify or revoke the consent to
any extent.

107.2

An order modifying or revoking listed building consent for any works may be
made at any time before the works are completed, but does not affect consent
for works carried out before the order takes effect.

107.3

In Schedule 8—

107.3.a

Part 1 makes provision about the procedures that must be followed before an
order made by a planning authority under this section takes effect (either
with or without confirmation by the Welsh Ministers);

107.3.b

Part 2 makes provision about the procedure that must be followed before the
Welsh Ministers make an order under this section.

###### Compensation where consent is modified or revoked



108

108.1

This section applies where listed building consent is modified or revoked by
an order under section 107 that is—

108.1.a

made by a planning authority and confirmed by the Welsh Ministers, or

108.1.b

made by the Welsh Ministers.

108.2

Any person interested in the listed building to which the consent relates is
entitled, on making a claim to the planning authority, to be paid compensation
by the authority for—

108.2.a

any expenditure incurred by the person in carrying out works that become
abortive because of the modification or revocation of the consent;

108.2.b

any other loss or damage suffered by the person that is directly attributable
to the modification or revocation.

108.3

For the purposes of this section expenditure incurred in the preparation of
plans for the purposes of any works, or on other similar matters preparatory
to any works, is to be treated as expenditure incurred in carrying out the
works.

108.4

Subject to that, no compensation is payable under this section in respect of—

108.4.a

works carried out before the grant of the listed building consent that is
modified or revoked, or

108.4.b

other loss or damage (other than loss or damage consisting of depreciation of
the value of an interest in land) arising out of anything done or omitted to
be done before the consent was granted.

108.5

A claim for compensation under this section must be made in writing within 6
months beginning with the day the modification or revocation of the consent
takes effect.

108.6

In subsection (2) “ the planning authority ” means—

108.6.a

the planning authority that made the order under section 107, or

108.6.b

if the order was made by the Welsh Ministers, the planning authority in whose
area the listed building to which the order relates is situated.

##### Right of owner of listed building to require purchase of interest

###### Purchase notice where consent is refused, granted subject to conditions, modified or revoked

109

109.1

This section applies where—

109.1.a

on an application for listed building consent, consent is refused or is
granted subject to conditions, or

109.1.b

an order under section 107 modifies or revokes listed building consent.

109.2

If an owner of the listed building to which the application or order relates
claims—

109.2.a

that the first set of conditions is met in relation to the building, and

109.2.b

that the first and second sets of conditions are met in relation to any
associated land,

the owner may serve a purchase notice on the planning authority in whose area
the listed building is situated.

109.3

A purchase notice is a notice requiring the planning authority to purchase the
owner’s interest in the listed building and associated land.

109.4

The first set of conditions is—

109.4.a

that the listed building and associated land in respect of which the notice is
served are‍ unusable in their existing state,

109.4.b

in a case where listed building consent has been granted‍ subject to
conditions or has been modified by the imposition of conditions, that the
building and land cannot be made usable by carrying out the works to which the
consent relates in accordance with the conditions, and

109.4.c

in any case, that the building and land cannot be made‍ usable by carrying out
any other works for which listed building consent has been granted or for
which the planning authority or the Welsh Ministers have undertaken to grant
listed building consent.

109.5

The second set of conditions is—

109.5.a

that the use of the associated land is substantially inseparable from the use
of the listed building, and

109.5.b

that the associated land ought to be treated, together with the building, as a
single holding.

109.6

In this section and Schedule 9—

“ associated land ” ( “tir cysylltiedig ”), in relation to a listed building,
means land which— includes, adjoins or is adjacent to the building, and is
owned with the building; “ usable ” (“ defnyddiadwy ”), in relation to a
listed building or associated land, means capable of reasonably beneficial
use.

109.7

In determining whether a listed building and associated land are‍ usable in
their existing state, a prospective use of the building or land must be
ignored if it would involve—

109.7.a

carrying out works requiring listed building consent which has not been
granted and which neither a planning authority nor the Welsh Ministers have
undertaken to grant, or

109.7.b

carrying out development for which planning permission has not been granted
and for which neither a planning authority nor the Welsh Ministers have
undertaken to grant permission.

109.8

A listed building is not‍ unusable in its existing state if—

109.8.a

the existing state of the building was caused by a breach of section 88
(requirement for works to be authorised) or of a condition subject to which
listed building consent has been granted, and

109.8.b

the building could be made‍ usable by taking steps that are or could be
required by an enforcement notice under section 123.‍

###### Purchase notice in respect of Crown land

110

110.1

The owner of a private interest in Crown land may not serve a purchase notice
in respect of that interest unless—

110.1.a

the owner has offered to dispose of the interest to the appropriate Crown
authority for a price that is equal to (and if not agreed, is to be determined
in the same way as) the compensation that would be payable for the interest if
it were acquired in pursuance of a purchase notice, and

110.1.b

the appropriate Crown authority has refused the offer.

110.2

Only the appropriate Crown authority may serve a purchase notice in respect of
a Crown interest or Duchy interest in land which—

110.2.a

forms part of the Crown Estate,

110.2.b

belongs to His Majesty in right of His private estates,

110.2.c

belongs to His Majesty in right of the Duchy of Lancaster, or

110.2.d

belongs to the Duchy of Cornwall.

110.3

A purchase notice may not be served in respect of a Crown interest or Duchy
interest in any other land.

###### Further provision about service of purchase notice

111

111.1

A purchase notice must be served within 12 months beginning with—

111.1.a

in the case of a notice relating to a decision to refuse listed building
consent or grant it subject to conditions, the day the decision is made, or

111.1.b

in the case of a notice relating to an order under section 107 modifying or
revoking listed building consent, the day the order takes effect.

111.2

In a case where the Welsh Ministers determine an appeal against a decision of
a planning authority to refuse listed building consent or grant it subject to
conditions, the reference in subsection (1)(a) to the day the decision is made
is to be read as a reference to the day the Welsh Ministers determine the
appeal.

111.3

The Welsh Ministers may at any time extend the period for serving a purchase
notice in a particular case, if they are satisfied that there are good reasons
for doing so.

111.4

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations make provision about how a purchase
notice must be served.

111.5

Where a repairs notice has been served on an owner of a listed building under
section 138, the owner is not entitled to serve a purchase notice in respect
of the building—

111.5.a

before the end of 3 months beginning with the day the repairs notice is
served, or

111.5.b

if during that period the‍ compulsory acquisition of the building is started
under section 137, unless the compulsory acquisition is discontinued.

111.6

An owner of a listed building who has served a purchase notice may not amend
the notice; but that does not prevent the owner serving a further purchase
notice relating to the same decision or order.

111.7

If an owner serves a further purchase notice relating to the same decision or
order, the earlier notice is to be treated as withdrawn unless the later
notice states that the owner does not intend to withdraw it.

111.8

For the purposes of subsection (5)—

111.8.a

a compulsory acquisition is starte‍d—

111.8.a.i

by a planning authority when it serves the notice required by section 12 of
the  Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (c. 67) ;

111.8.a.ii

by the Welsh Ministers when they serve the notice required by paragraph 3(1)
of Schedule 1 to that Act;

111.8.b

a compulsory acquisition is discontinued—

111.8.b.i

in the case of an acquisition by a planning authority, when the compulsory
purchase order is withdrawn or the Welsh Ministers decide not to confirm it;

111.8.b.ii

in the case of an acquisition by the Welsh Ministers, when they decide not to
make the compulsory purchase order.

###### Action following service of purchase notice

112

Schedule 9 makes provision about the action to be taken by planning
authorities and the Welsh Ministers following the service of a purchase
notice.

#### LISTED BUILDING PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENTS

##### Listed building partnership agreements

113

113.1

A planning authority may make an agreement under this section with any owner
of a listed building, or part of a listed building, situated in its area.

113.2

Any of the following persons may also be a party to the agreement (in addition
to the owner and the authority)—

113.2.a

the Welsh Ministers;

113.2.b

any occupier of the building;

113.2.c

any other person who has an interest in the building;

113.2.d

any person involved in the management of the building;

113.2.e

any other person the planning authority considers appropriate as having
special knowledge of, or special interest in, the building or in buildings of
architectural or historic interest more generally.

113.3

The Welsh Ministers may make an agreement under this section with any owner of
a listed building or part of a listed building.

113.4

Any of the following persons may also be a party to the agreement (in addition
to the owner and the Welsh Ministers)—

113.4.a

any planning authority in whose area the building or part is situated;

113.4.b

any occupier of the building;

113.4.c

any other person who has an interest in the building;

113.4.d

any person involved in the management of the building;

113.4.e

any other person the Welsh Ministers consider appropriate as having special
knowledge of, or special interest in, the building or in buildings of
architectural or historic interest more generally.

113.5

An agreement under this section is referred to in this Act as a “listed
building partnership agreement”.

113.6

A listed building partnership agreement may grant listed building consent
under section 89(1) for specified works for the alteration or extension of the
listed building to which the agreement relates.

113.7

Where a listed building partnership agreement grants listed building consent
subject to conditions, the agreement must specify those conditions.

113.8

A listed building partnership agreement may also—

113.8.a

specify works that would or would not, in the view of the parties, affect the
character of the listed building as a building of special architectural or
historic interest;

113.8.b

make provision about the maintenance and preservation of the building;

113.8.c

make provision about the carrying out of specified works, or the doing of any
specified thing, in relation to the building;

113.8.d

provide for public access to the building and the provision of associated
facilities, information or services to the public;

113.8.e

restrict access to, or use of, the building;

113.8.f

prohibit the doing of any specified thing in relation to the building;

113.8.g

provide for a planning authority or the Welsh Ministers to make payments of
specified amounts and on specified terms—

113.8.g.i

for or towards the costs of any works provided for under the agreement, or

113.8.g.ii

in consideration of any restriction, prohibition or obligation accepted by any
other party to the agreement.

113.9

A listed building partnership agreement may relate to more than one listed
building or part of a listed building, but only if the parties to the
agreement include in relation to each building or part—

113.9.a

an owner of that building or part, and

113.9.b

the planning authority in whose area that building or part is situated or the
Welsh Ministers.

113.10

In this section—

“ owner ” (“ perchennog ”), in relation to a listed building or part of a
listed building, means— an owner of the freehold estate in the building or
part, or a tenant under a lease of the building or part granted or extended
for a fixed term that has at least 7 years left to run; “ specified ” (“
penodedig ”) means specified or described in a listed building partnership
agreement.

##### Further provision about listed building partnership agreements

114

114.1

A listed building partnership agreement must be in writing.

114.2

A listed building partnership agreement must—

114.2.a

contain enough information to identify the listed building to which it
relates, including a plan;

114.2.b

contain any other plans and drawings that are necessary to describe any works
to which it relates;

114.2.c

specify the date on which it takes effect and its duration;

114.2.d

make provision for the parties to review the terms of the agreement at
intervals specified in it;

114.2.e

make provision for its variation (but this is subject to regulations under
subsection (5));

114.2.f

make provision for its termination (but this is subject to section 115).

114.3

A listed building partnership agreement may contain incidental and
consequential provision.

114.4

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations specify other terms that must be
included in a listed building partnership agreement.

114.5

The Welsh Ministers must by regulations make provision about—

114.5.a

the consultation that must take place before a listed building partnership
agreement is made or varied;

114.5.b

the publicity that must be given to a listed building partnership agreement
before or after it is made or varied.

114.6

In considering whether to make a listed building partnership agreement that
grants listed building consent, or vary an agreement so that it grants
consent, a planning authority or the Welsh Ministers must have special regard
to the desirability of preserving—

114.6.a

the listed building to which the agreement relates,

114.6.b

the setting of the building, and

114.6.c

any features of special architectural or historic interest the building
possesses.

114.7

A listed building partnership agreement may not impose any obligation or
liability, or confer any right, on a person who is not a party to the
agreement; and listed building consent granted by such an agreement has effect
only for the benefit of the parties to it.

114.8

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations—

114.8.a

disapply, or apply or reproduce with or without modifications, any provision
of sections 90 to 104 (granting listed building consent) or Chapter 4
(enforcement) for the purposes of listed building partnership agreements, and

114.8.b

provide for any other provision of this Act to apply with modifications that
are consequential on provision made under paragraph (a).

##### Termination of agreement or provision of agreement

115

115.1

A planning authority may by order terminate a listed building partnership
agreement to which it is a party or any provision of such an agreement.

115.2

The Welsh Ministers may by order terminate a listed building partnership
agreement (whether or not they are a party to it) or any provision of such an
agreement.

115.3

An order under this section may contain supplementary, incidental, transitory,
transitional or saving provision.

115.4

An order under this section terminating a provision which grants listed
building consent for any works may be made at any time before the works are
completed, but does not affect listed building consent for works carried out
before the order takes effect.

115.5

In Schedule 10—

115.5.a

Part 1 makes provision about the procedure that must be followed before an
order made by a planning authority under this section takes effect;

115.5.b

Part 2 makes provision about the procedure that must be followed before the
Welsh Ministers make an order under this section.

115.6

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations amend Schedule 10, and the regulations
may make consequential amendments to any other provision of this Act.

##### Compensation where agreement or provision is terminated

116

116.1

This section applies where a listed building partnership agreement, or any
provision of such an agreement, is terminated by an order under section 115.

116.2

Any person is entitled, on making a claim to the planning authority, to be
paid compensation by the authority for—

116.2.a

any expenditure incurred by the person in carrying out works that become
abortive because of the termination of the agreement or provision;

116.2.b

any other loss or damage suffered by the person that is directly attributable
to the termination.

116.3

For the purposes of this section expenditure incurred in the preparation of
plans for the purposes of any works, or on other similar matters preparatory
to any works, is to be treated as expenditure incurred in carrying out the
works.

116.4

Subject to that, no compensation is payable under this section in respect of—

116.4.a

works carried out before the listed building partnership agreement, or the
relevant provision of the agreement, took effect, or

116.4.b

other loss or damage (other than loss or damage consisting of depreciation of
the value of an interest in land) arising out of anything done or omitted to
be done before the agreement or provision took effect.

116.5

A claim for compensation under this section must be made in writing within 6
months beginning with the day the termination of the agreement or provision
takes effect.

116.6

In subsection (2) “ the planning authority ” means—

116.6.a

the planning authority that made the order under section 115, or

116.6.b

if the order was made by the Welsh Ministers, the planning authority in whose
area the listed building, or the part of a listed building, to which the order
relates is situated.

116.7

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations amend this section, and the regulations
may make consequential amendments to any other provision of this Act.

#### ENFORCEMENT OF CONTROLS RELATING TO LISTED BUILDINGS

##### Unauthorised works and intentional damage: offences

###### Offence of carrying out unauthorised works or breaching condition of consent

117

117.1

A person commits an offence if the person carries out, or causes to be carried
out, works in relation to a listed building in breach of section 88
(requirement for works to be authorised).

117.2

A person also commits an offence if the person—

117.2.a

carries out, or causes to be carried out, works in relation to a listed
building, and

117.2.b

fails to comply with a condition subject to which listed building consent has
been granted for the works.

117.3

Subsection (2) does not limit what may be an offence under subsection (1).

117.4

In proceedings against a person for an offence under this section, it is a
defence for the person to prove that—

117.4.a

works were urgently necessary in the interests of safety or health or for the
preservation of the building,

117.4.b

it was not practicable to secure safety or health or the preservation of the
building by carrying out works of repair or works to provide temporary support
or shelter,

117.4.c

the works carried out were limited to the minimum measures immediately
necessary, and

117.4.d

notice in writing justifying in detail the carrying out of the works was given
to the planning authority in whose area the building is or was situated as
soon as reasonably practicable.

117.5

In proceedings against a person for an offence under this section in relation
to a building on which interim protection is conferred—

117.5.a

it is a defence for the person to prove that the person did not know, and
could not reasonably have been expected to know, that the interim protection
had been conferred, and

117.5.b

where the defence is raised by a person on whom a notice should have been
served under section 78(1), it is for the prosecution to prove that the notice
was served on the person.

117.6

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

117.6.a

on summary conviction, to a fine or imprisonment for a term not exceeding the
applicable limit under section 224(1A)(b) of the Sentencing Code, or both;

117.6.b

on conviction on indictment, to a fine or imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 2 years, or both.

117.7

In determining the amount of any fine to be imposed on a person convicted of
an offence under this section, the court must in particular have regard to any
financial benefit which has accrued or appears likely to accrue to the person
in consequence of the offence.

###### Offence of intentionally damaging listed building

118

118.1

A person commits an offence if, with the intention of causing damage to a
listed building, the person does anything or permits anything to be done—

118.1.a

which causes or is likely to result in damage to the building, and

118.1.b

which the person would be entitled to do or permit were it not for this
subsection.

118.2

Subsection (1) does not apply to—

118.2.a

works for which listed building consent has been granted;

118.2.b

anything done in relation to a scheduled monument (but see section 58);

118.2.c

works in relation to an exempt religious building;

118.2.d

anything authorised by planning permission granted or treated as having been
granted on an application under the  Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (c. 8)
;

118.2.e

anything for which development consent has been granted under the  Planning
Act 2008 (c. 29) .

118.3

A person guilty of an offence under subsection (1) is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

118.4

If a person convicted of an offence under subsection (1) fails to take any
reasonable steps that are necessary to prevent damage or further damage
resulting from the offence, the person is guilty of a further offence.

118.5

A person guilty of an offence under subsection (4) is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding one tenth of level 3 on the standard scale
for each day on which the failure continues.

##### Temporary stop notices

###### Power of planning authority to issue temporary stop notice

119

119.1

A planning authority may issue a temporary stop notice if it considers—

119.1.a

that works have been or are being carried out in relation to a listed building
in its area which involve a breach of section 88 (requirement for works to be
authorised) or of a condition subject to which listed building consent has
been granted, and

119.1.b

that the works (or any of them) ought to be stopped immediately, having regard
to their effect on the character of the building as one of special
architectural or historic interest.

119.2

A temporary stop notice must—

119.2.a

specify the works to which it relates,

119.2.b

prohibit the carrying out of the works (or any of them specified in the
notice),

119.2.c

set out the authority’s reasons for issuing the notice, and

119.2.d

state the effect of section 121 (offence of breaching temporary stop notice).

119.3

The planning authority must display a copy of the temporary stop notice on the
listed building to which it relates; and the copy must specify the date on
which it is first displayed.

119.4

But if—

119.4.a

it is not reasonably practicable to display a copy of the notice on the
building, or

119.4.b

the authority considers that displaying a copy of the notice on the building
might damage it,

the authority may instead display a copy in a prominent place as near to the
building as is reasonably practicable.

119.5

The authority may serve a copy of the notice on any person the authority
considers—

119.5.a

to be carrying out the works that the notice prohibits or causing or
permitting them to be carried out,

119.5.b

to be an occupier of the listed building to which the notice relates, or

119.5.c

to have an interest in the building.

119.6

A temporary stop notice may not prohibit the carrying out of works of a
description, or in circumstances, specified in regulations made by the Welsh
Ministers.

###### Duration etc. of temporary stop notice

120

120.1

A temporary stop notice takes effect when a copy of it is first displayed in
accordance with section 119.

120.2

A temporary stop notice ceases to have effect—

120.2.a

at the end of 28 days beginning with the day the copy of it is first displayed
in accordance with section 119, or

120.2.b

if it specifies a shorter period beginning with that day, at the end of that
period.

120.3

But if the planning authority withdraws the notice before the end of the
period for which it would otherwise have effect, the notice ceases to have
effect when it is withdrawn.

120.4

A planning authority may not issue a second or subsequent temporary stop
notice in relation to the same works unless the authority has, since issuing
the previous notice, taken other enforcement action in relation to the breach
referred to in section 119(1)(a).

120.5

In subsection (4) the reference to taking other enforcement action is a
reference to—

120.5.a

issuing an enforcement notice under section 123, or

120.5.b

obtaining an injunction under section 135.

###### Offence of breaching temporary stop notice

121

121.1

A person commits an offence if, at any time when a temporary stop notice has
effect, the person carries out works prohibited by the notice or causes or
permits such works to be carried out.

121.2

A person may be charged with an offence under this section by reference to a
day or a longer period, and may be convicted of more than one offence in
relation to the same temporary stop notice by reference to different periods.

121.3

In proceedings against a person for an offence under this section, it is a
defence for the person to prove that the person did not know, and could not
reasonably have been expected to know, of the existence of the temporary stop
notice.

121.4

In proceedings for an offence under this section, it is a defence to prove
that—

121.4.a

works to the listed building were urgently necessary in the interests of
safety or health or for the preservation of the building,

121.4.b

it was not practicable to secure safety or health or the preservation of the
building by carrying out works of repair or works to provide temporary support
or shelter,

121.4.c

the works carried out were limited to the minimum measures immediately
necessary, and

121.4.d

notice in writing justifying in detail the carrying out of the works was given
to the planning authority in whose area the building is or was situated as
soon as reasonably practicable.

121.5

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction, or on conviction on indictment, to a fine.

121.6

In determining the amount of the fine, the court must in particular have
regard to any financial benefit which has accrued or appears likely to accrue
to the person in consequence of the offence.

###### Compensation for loss or damage caused by temporary stop notice

122

122.1

This section applies where—

122.1.a

the works specified in a temporary stop notice do not, at the time the notice
takes effect, involve a breach of section 88 (requirement for works to be
authorised) or of a condition subject to which listed building consent has
been granted, or

122.1.b

a planning authority withdraws a temporary stop notice after it has taken
effect.

122.2

This section does not apply by virtue of subsection (1)(b) where—

122.2.a

listed building consent is granted for the works specified in the temporary
stop notice after the notice has taken effect, and

122.2.b

the planning authority withdraws the notice after the grant of that consent.

122.3

Any person who has an interest in the listed building to which the notice
relates‍ at the time the notice takes effect is entitled, on making a claim to
the planning authority, to be paid compensation by the authority for any loss
or damage suffered by the person that is directly attributable to the effect
of the notice.

122.4

The loss or damage for which compensation is payable includes any amount
payable by the claimant in respect of a breach of contract caused by taking
action necessary to comply with the notice.

122.5

No compensation is payable under this section for loss or damage that the
claimant could have avoided by—

122.5.a

providing information that the claimant was required to provide by a notice
served by the planning authority under section 197 of this Act or section 16
of the  Local Government (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1976 (c. 57) , or

122.5.b

co-operating with the planning authority in any other way when responding to
such a notice.

122.6

A claim for compensation under this section must be made in writing within 6
months beginning—

122.6.a

in a case falling within subsection (1)(a) but not within subsection (1)(b),
with the day the temporary stop notice takes effect;

122.6.b

in a case falling within subsection (1)(b), with the day the notice is
withdrawn.

##### Enforcement notices issued by planning authorities

###### Power of planning authority to issue enforcement notice

123

123.1

A planning authority may issue an enforcement notice if it considers—

123.1.a

that works which involve a breach of section 88 (requirement for works to be
authorised) or of a condition subject to which listed building consent has
been granted have been or are being carried out in relation to a listed
building in its area, and

123.1.b

that it is appropriate to issue the notice, having regard to the effect of the
works on the character of the building as a building of special architectural
or historic interest.

123.2

An enforcement notice must—

123.2.a

specify the alleged breach, and

123.2.b

require steps specified in the notice to be taken for one or more of the
purposes set out in subsection (3).

123.3

The purposes are—

123.3.a

restoring the listed building to its condition before the breach took place,

123.3.b

if the planning authority considers that restoration would not be reasonably
practicable or would be undesirable, carrying out further works to alleviate
the effect of the breach, or

123.3.c

putting the building in the condition it would have been in if the terms of
any listed building consent for the works to which the notice relates
(including any conditions attached to the consent) had been complied with.

123.4

Where an enforcement notice imposes a requirement under subsection (3)(b),
listed building consent is to be treated as having been granted for any works
carried out in compliance with the requirement.

###### Service and taking effect of enforcement notice

124

124.1

An enforcement notice must specify—

124.1.a

the date on which it is to take effect, and

124.1.b

the period within which the steps specified in it must be taken.

124.2

The notice takes effect at the beginning of the day specified under subsection
(1)(a); but where an appeal is made against the notice under section 127, this
is subject to sections 127(4)(a) and 184(5).

124.3

An enforcement notice may specify different periods for taking different
steps.

124.4

Where a planning authority issues an enforcement notice, it must serve a copy
of the notice on—

124.4.a

every owner and occupier of the listed building to which the notice relates,
and

124.4.b

any other person who has an interest in the building which the authority
considers to be materially affected by the notice.

124.5

Each copy of the notice must be served—

124.5.a

before the end of 28 days after the day the notice is issued, and

124.5.b

at least 28 days before the date specified in the notice as the date on which
it is to take effect.

###### Variation and withdrawal of enforcement notice

125

125.1

Where a planning authority has issued an enforcement notice, it may—

125.1.a

withdraw the notice;

125.1.b

waive or relax any requirement of the notice, and in particular extend the
period within which the notice requires any step to be taken.

125.2

The authority may exercise the powers in subsection (1) whether or not the
notice has taken effect.

125.3

The withdrawal of an enforcement notice does not prevent the planning
authority from issuing another enforcement notice.

125.4

Subsection (5) applies where the planning authority had served copies of the
enforcement notice under section 124(4) before exercising the powers in
subsection (1).

125.5

Immediately after exercising any of those powers, the authority must give
notice that it has done so to every person who was served with a copy of the
enforcement notice (or who would be served with a copy of the notice if it
were reissued).

###### Effect of granting listed building consent on enforcement notice

126

126.1

This section applies if, after an enforcement notice has been issued, listed
building consent is granted under section 89(2)—

126.1.a

authorising any works to which the notice relates that have been carried out
in breach of section 88, or

126.1.b

authorising works which involve a breach of a condition subject to which a
previous consent was granted.

126.2

The notice ceases to have effect (or does not take effect) so far as it—

126.2.a

requires steps to be taken that are inconsistent with the authorisation of the
works, or

126.2.b

requires steps to be taken for complying with the condition.

126.3

The fact that an enforcement notice has wholly or partly ceased to have effect
by virtue of this section does not affect the liability of any person for an
offence in respect of a previous failure to comply with the notice (see
section 133).

##### Appeals and other proceedings relating to enforcement notices

###### Right to appeal against enforcement notice

127

127.1

The following persons may appeal to the Welsh Ministers against an enforcement
notice (whether or not a copy of the notice has been served on them)—

127.1.a

any person who has an interest in the listed building to which the notice
relates;

127.1.b

any person who by virtue of a licence—

127.1.b.i

occupies the building on the day the notice is issued, and

127.1.b.ii

continues to occupy it when the appeal is made.

127.2

An appeal may be made on one or more of the following grounds—

127.2.a

that the building is not of special architectural or historic interest;

127.2.b

that the matters alleged to constitute a breach of section 88 or of a
condition of listed building consent have not occurred;

127.2.c

that those matters (if they occurred) do not constitute such a breach;

127.2.d

that the following conditions are met—

127.2.d.i

works to the building were urgently necessary in the interests of safety or
health or for the preservation of the building,

127.2.d.ii

it was not practicable to secure safety or health or the preservation of the
building by carrying out works of repair or works to provide temporary support
or shelter, and

127.2.d.iii

the works carried out were limited to the minimum measures immediately
necessary;

127.2.e

that listed building consent ought to be granted for the works to which the
notice relates, or that any relevant condition of listed building consent
which has been granted for the works ought to be removed or replaced with
different conditions;

127.2.f

that a copy of the notice was not served on a person as required by section
124;

127.2.g

that steps which the notice requires under section 123(3)(a) would not serve
the purpose of restoring the character of the building;

127.2.h

that steps which the notice requires for any of the purposes set out in
section 123(3) exceed what is necessary for the purpose in question;

127.2.i

that the period within which the notice requires any step to be taken is
unreasonably short.

127.3

An appeal must be made by—

127.3.a

serving a notice of appeal on the Welsh Ministers before the date specified in
the enforcement notice as the date on which it is to take effect,

127.3.b

sending a notice of appeal to the Welsh Ministers in a properly addressed and
pre-paid letter posted to them at a time when, in the ordinary course of post,
it would be delivered to them before that date, or

127.3.c

sending a notice of appeal to the Welsh Ministers using electronic
communications at a time when, in the ordinary course of transmission, it
would be delivered to them before that date.

127.4

Where an appeal is made—

127.4.a

the enforcement notice has no effect until the appeal is finally determined or
withdrawn; but this is subject to any order under section 184(5);

127.4.b

neither the appellant nor any other person is entitled, in any other
proceedings started after the making of the appeal, to claim that the
enforcement notice was not served on the appellant in accordance with section
124.

127.5

An appellant must submit to the Welsh Ministers a statement in writing
containing information required by regulations made by the Welsh Ministers.

127.6

The appellant must submit the statement either—

127.6.a

with the notice of appeal, or

127.6.b

within the period specified in regulations made by the Welsh Ministers.

127.7

Where an appeal is made on more than one ground, if the appellant fails to
give information required under subsection (5) in relation to a ground within
the period specified under subsection (6)(b), the Welsh Ministers may
determine the appeal without considering that ground.

127.8

Chapter 2 of Part 5 makes provision about the procedure for the consideration
of appeals under this section (including provision for them to be determined
by persons appointed by the Welsh Ministers).

###### Determination of appeal

128

128.1

On an appeal under section 127, the Welsh Ministers may—

128.1.a

correct any defect, error or misdescription in the enforcement notice to which
the appeal relates, or

128.1.b

vary the terms of the notice,

if they are satisfied that the correction or variation will not cause
injustice to the appellant or the planning authority.

128.2

Where the Welsh Ministers determine an appeal—

128.2.a

if they allow the appeal, they may quash the enforcement notice;

128.2.b

they must give any directions necessary to give effect to their determination.

128.3

On the determination of an appeal the Welsh Ministers may—

128.3.a

grant listed building consent for any of the works to which the enforcement
notice relates;

128.3.b

remove any condition subject to which listed building consent was granted and
replace it with any other condition, whether more or less onerous;

128.3.c

exercise their power under section 76 to de-list the building to which the
appeal relates.

128.4

Where it would otherwise be a ground for determining to allow an appeal that a
copy of the enforcement notice was not served on a person who was required to
be served, the Welsh Ministers may ignore that fact if neither the appellant
nor that person has been substantially prejudiced by the failure.

128.5

The Welsh Ministers may—

128.5.a

dismiss an appeal if the appellant fails to comply with section 127(6);

128.5.b

allow an appeal and quash the enforcement notice if the planning authority
fails, within the period specified in regulations made under section 175, to
comply with a requirement of the regulations to—

128.5.b.i

submit a statement of the representations the authority proposes to make on
the appeal which includes the matters specified in the regulations, or

128.5.b.ii

send the Welsh Ministers a copy of the enforcement notice and a list of the
persons on whom copies of it were served.

128.6

The decision of the Welsh Ministers on the appeal (including any decision
relating to the exercise of the powers conferred by subsection (3)) is final.

###### Grounds for appeal not to be raised in other proceedings

129

The validity of an enforcement notice may not be questioned, on any of the
grounds on which an appeal may be made under section 127, in any proceedings
except an appeal under that section.

##### Compliance with enforcement notices

###### Order to permit steps required by enforcement notice

130

130.1

An owner of land may apply by way of complaint to a magistrates’ court for an
order requiring another person who has an interest in the land to permit the
owner to take steps required by an enforcement notice.

130.2

The court may make such an order if it is satisfied that the other person is
preventing the owner from taking steps required by the enforcement notice.

###### Power to enter land and take steps required by enforcement notice

131

131.1

If the period within which an enforcement notice requires any step to be taken
has ended and the step has not been taken, the planning authority that issued
the notice may at any reasonable time enter the land to which the notice
relates and take the step.

131.2

A person who intentionally obstructs a person exercising a power under
subsection (1) commits an offence.

131.3

A person guilty of an offence under subsection (2) is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

131.4

This section does not apply in relation to Crown land.

###### Recovery of costs of compliance with enforcement notice

132

132.1

Where a planning authority exercises the powers under section 131(1) to enter
land and take a step required by an enforcement notice, the authority may
recover from a person who is then an owner of the land the costs it reasonably
incurs in doing so.

132.2

If a planning authority seeks to recover costs under subsection (1) from an
owner of land who—

132.2.a

is entitled to receive the rack rent of the land merely as agent or trustee
for another person (the “principal”), and

132.2.b

does not have, and has not had at any time since the day payment of the costs
was demanded, enough money on behalf of the principal to pay the costs in
full,

the liability of the agent or trustee is limited to the total amount of money
that the agent or trustee has had on behalf of the principal since that day.

132.3

If subsection (2) prevents a planning authority recovering the whole of its
costs from an agent or trustee, it may recover them from the principal, or
partly from the principal and partly from the agent or trustee.

132.4

Where a copy of an enforcement notice has been served in respect of a listed
building—

132.4.a

costs which an owner or occupier of the building incurs for the purpose of
complying with the notice, and

132.4.b

amounts which an owner of land pays under subsection (1) in respect of costs
incurred by the planning authority in taking steps required by the notice,

are to be treated as incurred or paid for the use and at the request of the
person who carried out the works to which the notice relates.

132.5

The costs recoverable by a planning authority under subsection (1) are, until
recovered, a charge on the land to which the enforcement notice relates.

132.6

The charge takes effect as a local land charge at the beginning of the day
after the day the authority completes the step to which the costs relate.

132.7

Subsection (8) applies where—

132.7.a

a planning authority removes materials from land in the course of taking steps
required by an enforcement notice, and

132.7.b

the owner of the materials does not, within 3 days after the day they are
removed, claim the materials and take them away.

132.8

The planning authority—

132.8.a

may sell the materials, and

132.8.b

if it does so, must pay the proceeds to the person who owned the materials,
after deducting any costs recoverable by it from the person.

132.9

A planning authority may not recover costs under this section from the Crown.

###### Offence of failing to comply with enforcement notice

133

133.1

Where, at any time after the end of the period within which an enforcement
notice requires any step to be taken, the step has not been taken, a person
who is at that time an owner of the listed building to which the notice
relates is guilty of an offence.

133.2

A person may be charged with an offence under this section by reference to a
day or a longer period, and may be convicted of more than one offence in
relation to the same enforcement notice by reference to different periods.

133.3

In proceedings against a person for an offence under this section, it is a
defence for the person to prove—

133.3.a

that the person did everything the person could be expected to do to secure
that the steps required by the notice were taken, or

133.3.b

that the person was not served with a copy of the enforcement notice and was
not aware of its existence.

133.4

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction, or on conviction on indictment, to a fine.

133.5

In determining the amount of the fine, the court must in particular have
regard to any financial benefit which has accrued or appears likely to accrue
to the person in consequence of the offence.

##### Enforcement notices issued by Welsh Ministers

###### Power of Welsh Ministers to issue enforcement notice

134

134.1

The Welsh Ministers may issue an enforcement notice if they consider—

134.1.a

that works which involve a breach of section 88 (requirement for works to be
authorised) or of a condition subject to which listed building consent has
been granted have been or are being carried out in relation to a listed
building, and

134.1.b

that it is appropriate to issue the notice, having regard to the effect of the
works on the character of the building as a building of special architectural
or historic interest.

134.2

Before issuing the notice, the Welsh Ministers must consult the planning
authority in whose area the building is situated.

134.3

An enforcement notice issued by the Welsh Ministers has the same effect as one
issued by a planning authority.

134.4

Sections 123 to 132 apply in relation to an enforcement notice issued by the
Welsh Ministers as if references to a planning authority were references to
the Welsh Ministers.

##### Injunctions

###### Injunction to restrain unauthorised works or failure to comply with condition of consent

135

135.1

A planning authority may apply to the High Court or the county court for an
injunction restraining—

135.1.a

an actual or expected breach of section 88 (requirement for works to be
authorised) in relation to a listed building in its area, or

135.1.b

an actual or expected failure to comply with a condition of listed building
consent for works to a listed building in its area.

135.2

An authority may make an application whether or not it has exercised or is
proposing to exercise any of its other powers under this Part.

135.3

The court may grant an injunction on any terms it considers appropriate for
the purpose of restraining the breach.

135.4

Rules of court may provide for an injunction to be issued against a person
whose identity is unknown.

135.5

An injunction may not be issued under this section against the Crown.

#### ACQUISITION AND PRESERVATION OF BUILDINGS OF SPECIAL INTEREST

##### Acquisition by agreement of buildings of special interest

###### Power of planning authority to acquire building by agreement

136

136.1

A planning authority may acquire by agreement—

136.1.a

any building wholly or mainly in Wales that it considers to be of special
architectural or historic interest, and

136.1.b

any land in respect of which the conditions in subsection (2) are met.

136.2

The conditions are that—

136.2.a

the land includes, adjoins or is adjacent to the building, and

136.2.b

the planning authority considers that the land is required—

136.2.b.i

for preserving the building or its amenities,

136.2.b.ii

for providing or facilitating access to it, or

136.2.b.iii

for its proper control or management.

136.3

Part 1 of the  Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 (c. 56)  applies (so far as
relevant) to an acquisition under this section, other than sections 4 to 8,
section 10 and section 31 of that Act.

136.4

References in that Part to the execution of the works are to be read in
relation to an acquisition under this section as including the carrying out of
building or maintenance work authorised by section 203 of the  Housing and
Planning Act 2016 (c. 22)  (power to override easements and other rights).

##### Compulsory acquisition of listed buildings in need of repair

###### Powers to acquire listed building compulsorily for purpose of preservation

137

137.1

This section applies if the Welsh Ministers—

137.1.a

consider that reasonable steps are not being taken for properly preserving a
listed building, and

137.1.b

are satisfied that there is a compelling case in the public interest for the
building to be acquired compulsorily for the purpose of preserving it.

137.2

The Welsh Ministers—

137.2.a

may authorise the planning authority in whose area the listed building is
situated to acquire compulsorily the building and any land in respect of which
the conditions in subsection (3) are met, or

137.2.b

may themselves acquire the building and land compulsorily.

137.3

The conditions are that—

137.3.a

the land includes, adjoins or is adjacent to the building, and

137.3.b

the Welsh Ministers consider that the land is required—

137.3.b.i

for preserving the building or its amenities,

137.3.b.ii

for providing or facilitating access to it, or

137.3.b.iii

for its proper control or management.

137.4

This section does not permit the acquisition of—

137.4.a

a building which is a scheduled monument (but see section 43), or

137.4.b

an exempt religious building.

137.5

This section does not permit the acquisition of an interest in Crown land
unless—

137.5.a

the interest is held otherwise than by or on behalf of the Crown, and

137.5.b

the appropriate Crown authority agrees to the acquisition.

137.6

The  Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (c. 67)  applies to an acquisition under
this section.

137.7

In this Chapter “ acquiring authority ” means—

137.7.a

in the case of an acquisition or proposed acquisition under subsection (2)(a),
the planning authority that acquires or proposes to acquire the listed
building or land;

137.7.b

in the case of an acquisition or proposed acquisition under subsection (2)(b),
the Welsh Ministers.

###### Requirement to serve repairs notice before starting compulsory acquisition

138

138.1

An acquiring authority may not start the compulsory acquisition of a listed
building under section 137 unless—

138.1.a

the authority has served a repairs notice on every owner of the building,

138.1.b

the 2 months beginning with the day the repairs notice was served have ended,
and

138.1.c

the repairs notice has not been withdrawn.

138.2

A repairs notice is a notice—

138.2.a

specifying the works the authority considers reasonably necessary for the
proper preservation of the listed building, and

138.2.b

explaining the effect of sections 137 to 141 of this Act and section 49 of the
Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990 (c. 9)
(assumption about listed building consent when assessing compensation for
compulsory acquisition).

138.3

If—

138.3.a

a listed building is demolished after a repairs notice has been served in
respect of it, but

138.3.b

the Welsh Ministers are satisfied that they would have confirmed or made a
compulsory purchase order in respect of the building had it not been
demolished,

the demolition of the building does not prevent the compulsory acquisition of
the site of the building under section 137.

138.4

An acquiring authority may at any time withdraw a repairs notice it has served
on any person; and if it does do so, it must immediately give the person
notice of the withdrawal.

138.5

For the purposes of subsection (1) an acquiring authority starts a compulsory
acquisition when it serves the notice required by section 12 of the
Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (c. 67)  or paragraph 3(1) of Schedule 1 to that
Act.

###### Application to stop compulsory acquisition

139

139.1

This section applies where a compulsory purchase order for the acquisition of
a listed building under section 137 is made by a planning authority or
prepared in draft by the Welsh Ministers.

139.2

Any person who has an interest in the listed building may apply to a
magistrates’ court for an order that no further steps may be taken in relation
to the compulsory purchase order.

139.3

The application must be made within 28 days after the day the notice required
by section 12 of the  Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (c. 67)  or paragraph 3(1)
of Schedule 1 to that Act is served.

139.4

If the magistrates’ court is satisfied that reasonable steps have been taken
for properly preserving the listed building, it must make the order applied
for.

139.5

Any person aggrieved by the decision of the magistrates’ court on the
application may appeal against the decision to the Crown Court.

###### Direction for minimum compensation where building deliberately allowed to fall into disrepair

140

140.1

A compulsory purchase order for the acquisition of a listed building under
section 137 may include a direction for minimum compensation if the acquiring
authority is satisfied that the building has been deliberately allowed to fall
into disrepair for the purpose of justifying its demolition and the
development of the site or any adjoining site.

140.2

A direction for minimum compensation is a direction that, in assessing
compensation for the compulsory acquisition of the listed building, it is to
be assumed—

140.2.a

that planning permission would not be granted for any development of the site
of the building, and

140.2.b

that listed building consent would not be granted for any works for the
demolition, alteration or extension of the building other than works necessary
for restoring it to and maintaining it in a proper state of repair.

140.3

Where a direction for minimum compensation is included in an order made by a
planning authority or prepared in draft by the Welsh Ministers, the statement
of the effect of the order in the notice required by section 12 of the
Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (c. 67)  or paragraph 3(1) of Schedule 1 to that
Act must—

140.3.a

include a statement that the direction has been included, and

140.3.b

explain the effect of the direction.

140.4

If the Welsh Ministers confirm or make a compulsory purchase order which
includes a direction for minimum compensation, the compensation for the
compulsory acquisition is to be assessed in accordance with the direction,
despite anything to the contrary in—

140.4.a

the  Land Compensation Act 1961 (c. 33) ,

140.4.b

the  Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (c. 8) ,

140.4.c

section 49 of the  Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990
(c. 9) , or

140.4.d

this Act.

###### Application for removal of direction for minimum compensation

141

141.1

This section applies where a direction for minimum compensation is included in
a compulsory purchase order for the acquisition of a listed building under
section 137 that is made by a planning authority or prepared in draft by the
Welsh Ministers.

141.2

Any person who has an interest in the listed building may apply to a
magistrates’ court for an order that no direction for minimum compensation is
to be included in the compulsory purchase order as confirmed or made by the
Welsh Ministers.

141.3

The application must be made within 28 days after the day the notice required
by section 12 of the  Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (c. 67)  or paragraph 3(1)
of Schedule 1 to that Act is served.

141.4

If the magistrates’ court is satisfied that the listed building has not been
deliberately allowed to fall into disrepair for the purpose mentioned in
section 140(1), it must make the order applied for.

141.5

Any person aggrieved by the decision of the magistrates’ court on the
application may appeal against the decision to the Crown Court.

141.6

The rights conferred by this section are in addition to, and do not limit, the
rights conferred by section 139.

###### Ending of rights over land acquired compulsorily

142

142.1

On the completion of a compulsory acquisition of land under section 137—

142.1.a

all private rights of way over the land are extinguished,

142.1.b

all rights to install, keep or maintain apparatus on, under or over the land
are extinguished, and

142.1.c

the acquiring authority becomes entitled to any apparatus on, under or over
the land.

142.2

Subsection (1) does not apply to—

142.2.a

any right to which a statutory undertaker is entitled, or apparatus belonging
to a statutory undertaker, for the purpose of carrying on its undertaking,

142.2.b

any right conferred by or in accordance with the electronic communications
code on the operator of an electronic communications code network, or any
electronic communications apparatus installed for the purposes of such a
network, or

142.2.c

any right or apparatus specified by the acquiring authority in a direction
given before the completion of the acquisition.

142.3

Subsection (1) is also subject to any agreement (whether made before or after
the completion of the acquisition) between the acquiring authority and the
person who is entitled to the right or to whom the apparatus belongs.

142.4

Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment of a right or the transfer
of apparatus under this section is entitled to be paid compensation by the
acquiring authority.

142.5

Compensation under this section is to be determined in accordance with the
Land Compensation Act 1961 (c. 33) .

142.6

In subsection (2)(b)—

“ electronic communications code ” (“ cod cyfathrebu electronig ”) means the
code set out in Schedule 3A to the  Communications Act 2003 (c. 21) ; “
operator ” (“ gweithredwr ”), “ electronic communications code network ” (“
rhwydwaith cod cyfathrebu electronig ”) and “ electronic communications
apparatus ” (“ cyfarpar cyfathrebu electronig ”) have the meanings given by
paragraph 1(1) of Schedule 17 to the Communications Act 2003.

##### Management, use and disposal of buildings

###### Management, use and disposal of building acquired under this Chapter

143

143.1

Where a planning authority acquires a building or other land under this
Chapter, it may make any arrangements for the management, use or disposal of
the building or land that it considers appropriate for the purpose of
preserving the building or land.

143.2

For further provision about the use of land that a planning authority acquires
by agreement under section 136, see sections 232, 233 and 235 (appropriation,
disposal and development), 242 (overriding rights of possession) and 243
(joint body to hold land) of the  Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (c. 8) .

143.3

Where the Welsh Ministers acquire a building or other land under section 137,
they may—

143.3.a

make any arrangements they consider appropriate for the management, custody or
use of the building or land, and

143.3.b

dispose of the building or land, or deal with the building or land in any
other way.

143.4

For provision removing restrictions on the use of certain types of land
acquired under this Chapter, see sections 238 to 240 (consecrated land and
burial grounds) and 241 (commons, open spaces and fuel or field garden
allotments) of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990.

##### Urgent preservation of listed buildings

###### Urgent works to preserve listed building

144

144.1

A local authority may carry out any works it considers urgently necessary for
the preservation of a listed building in its area.

144.2

The Welsh Ministers may carry out any works they consider urgently necessary
for the preservation of any listed building.

144.3

The works that may be carried out under this section include works to provide
temporary support or shelter for the listed building.

144.4

If the listed building or any part of it is in residential use, works may be
carried out under this section only if they would not interfere unreasonably
with that use.

144.5

At least 7 clear days’ written notice of the intention to carry out works
under this section must be given—

144.5.a

to every owner of the listed building, and

144.5.b

if the building or any part of it is in residential use, every occupier of the
building.

144.6

The notice must describe the works proposed to be carried out.

144.7

Works may not be carried out under this section in relation to—

144.7.a

a building which is a scheduled monument (but see section 61),

144.7.b

an exempt religious building, or

144.7.c

a listed building on Crown land.

###### Power to require owner to meet costs of preservation works

145

145.1

Where works for the preservation of a listed building have been carried out by
a local authority or the Welsh Ministers under section 144, the local
authority or (as the case may be) the Welsh Ministers may serve notice on any
owner of the listed building requiring the owner to meet the costs of the
works.

145.2

Where the works consist of or include works to provide temporary support or
shelter for the listed building—

145.2.a

the costs that may be recovered include any continuing expenditure involved in
making available the equipment or materials used, and

145.2.b

notices under subsection (1) may be given from time to time in respect of that
continuing expenditure.

145.3

Subsection (4) applies if, within 28 days after the day a notice under
subsection (1) is served, the owner complains in writing to the Welsh
Ministers—

145.3.a

that some or all of the works were unnecessary for the preservation of the
listed building,

145.3.b

in the case of works to provide temporary support or shelter, that the
temporary arrangements have continued for an unreasonable length of time,

145.3.c

that the amount specified in the notice is unreasonable, or

145.3.d

that the recovery of that amount would cause hardship to the owner.

145.4

The Welsh Ministers must—

145.4.a

determine to what extent the owner’s complaint is well-founded, and

145.4.b

serve notice of their determination on—

145.4.b.i

the owner, and

145.4.b.ii

if the notice under subsection (1) was given by a local authority, that
authority.

145.5

The notice of the Welsh Ministers’ determination must state—

145.5.a

the reasons for the determination, and

145.5.b

the amount that they have decided may be recovered.

145.6

An owner or local authority on whom notice is served under subsection (4)(b)
may, within 28 days after the day the notice is served, appeal to the county
court against the Welsh Ministers’ decision.

###### Further provision about recovery of costs of preservation works

146

146.1

The costs which a local authority or the Welsh Ministers may recover under
section 145 carry interest, at the rate specified in regulations made by the
Welsh Ministers, from the time when the notice under subsection (1) of that
section becomes operative until all of the amounts due under that section are
recovered.

146.2

The costs and any interest are recoverable by the local authority or (as the
case may be) the Welsh Ministers as a debt.

146.3

The costs and any interest are, from the time when the notice under section
145(1) becomes operative until they are recovered, a charge on the land on
which the listed building in question is situated.

146.4

The charge takes effect, at the time when the notice becomes operative, as a
legal charge which is a local land charge.

146.5

For the purpose of enforcing the charge, the local authority or (as the case
may be) the Welsh Ministers have the same powers and remedies under the  Law
of Property Act 1925 (c. 20)  and otherwise as if they were a mortgagee by
deed with powers to sell the land, make leases, accept surrenders of leases
and appoint a receiver.

146.6

The power to appoint a receiver is exercisable at any time after the end of 1
month beginning with the day the charge takes effect.

146.7

For the purposes of this section a notice under section 145(1) becomes
operative—

146.7.a

where no complaint is made to the Welsh Ministers within the period referred
to in section 145(3), at the end of that period;

146.7.b

where a complaint is made but no appeal is made to the county court within the
period referred to in section 145(6), at the end of that period;

146.7.c

where an appeal is made and the decision on the appeal confirms the Welsh
Ministers’ determination under section 145(4) (with or without variation), at
the time of the decision;

146.7.d

where an appeal is made but is withdrawn, at the time of the withdrawal.

##### Further provision about preservation of listed buildings

###### Steps for preservation of listed buildings in disrepair

147

147.1

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations make provision for and in connection
with conferring powers on local authorities or the Welsh Ministers to take
steps to secure the proper preservation of listed buildings which have fallen
into disrepair.

147.2

The regulations may, in particular, provide for—

147.2.a

notices requiring owners of listed buildings which have fallen into disrepair
to carry out works to secure their proper preservation (“preservation
notices”);

147.2.b

appeals against preservation notices;

147.2.c

offences for failure to comply with preservation notices.

147.3

Regulations under this section—

147.3.a

may disapply, or apply or reproduce with or without modifications, any
provision of this Part or Part 5 or 7;

147.3.b

may amend this Part or those Parts.

147.4

Regulations under this section may not make any provision that binds the
Crown.

##### Finance for repair and maintenance of buildings of special interest etc.

###### Grant or loan by local authority for repair or maintenance of building

148

148.1

A relevant local authority may contribute towards any expenditure incurred, or
to be incurred, in the repair or maintenance of—

148.1.a

a listed building which is situated in or in the vicinity of the authority’s
area, or

148.1.b

a building in the authority’s area which is not a listed building but which
the authority considers to be of special architectural or historic interest.

148.2

At the same time as making such a contribution, the authority may also
contribute towards any expenditure incurred, or to be incurred, in the
maintenance of any garden which—

148.2.a

is occupied with the building, and

148.2.b

adjoins or is adjacent to it.

148.3

A contribution under this section may be made by grant or loan.

148.4

A relevant local authority may make a loan under this section on any terms and
conditions that it determines, which may for example include a term that the
loan is free of interest.

148.5

A relevant local authority—

148.5.a

may renounce its right to repayment of a loan or any outstanding interest, and

148.5.b

may agree with the borrower to vary any of the terms and conditions of a loan.

148.6

A relevant local authority may make a grant under this section subject to any
conditions it considers appropriate, which may for example include a condition
that the recipient of the grant must make an agreement with the authority for
the purpose of securing public access to all or part of the building or garden
to which the grant relates.

148.7

In this section and section 149, “ relevant local authority ” means—

148.7.a

a county council or county borough council in Wales;

148.7.b

a National Park authority in Wales;

148.7.c

a joint planning board constituted under section 2(1B) of the  Town and
Country Planning Act 1990 (c. 8) .

###### Recovery of grant made by local authority

149

149.1

This section applies where a relevant local authority makes a grant under
section 148.

149.2

If any condition imposed on the making of the grant is not complied with, the
authority may recover the amount of the grant, or any part of that amount,
from the recipient of the grant.

149.3

Subsections (4) and (5) apply if, during the 3 years beginning with the day
the grant is made—

149.3.a

there is a disposal of the whole or part of the interest that the recipient of
the grant held in the building or garden to which the grant relates on the day
the grant was made (“ the relevant interest ”), and

149.3.b

the disposal is made by sale, by exchange or by lease for a term of at least
21 years.

149.4

If the disposal is made by the recipient of the grant or by a person to whom
the recipient of the grant has given part of the relevant interest, the
relevant local authority may recover the amount of the grant, or any part of
that amount, from the recipient of the grant.

149.5

If the disposal is made by a person to whom the recipient of the grant has
given the whole of the relevant interest, the authority may recover the amount
of the grant, or any part of that amount, from the person to whom the gift was
made.

149.6

A relevant local authority may not recover amounts under this section which in
aggregate exceed the amount of the grant.

149.7

In this section references to giving an interest to a person are references to
giving it to the person directly or indirectly, other than on the death of the
holder of the interest.

###### Grant by Welsh Ministers for repair or maintenance of building, garden etc.

150

150.1

The Welsh Ministers may make grants to meet any expenditure incurred, or to be
incurred, in—

150.1.a

the repair or maintenance of a building which they consider to be of special
architectural or historic interest,

150.1.b

the maintenance of any land which includes, adjoins or is adjacent to such a
building,

150.1.c

the repair or maintenance of any objects ordinarily kept in such a building,
or

150.1.d

the maintenance of a garden or other land which they consider to be of special
historic interest.

150.2

The following provisions of this section apply where—

150.2.a

the Welsh Ministers make a grant under subsection (1) on terms which provide
for it to be recoverable under this section, and

150.2.b

before or on making the grant the Welsh Ministers give notice in writing to
the recipient of the grant which—

150.2.b.i

summarises the effect of this section, and

150.2.b.ii

specifies a period, beginning with the day the grant is made and ending not
more than 10 years after that day, during which the grant is to be recoverable
in accordance with subsections (4) to (6) (“the recovery period”).

150.3

If any condition imposed on the making of the grant is not complied with, the
Welsh Ministers may recover the amount of the grant, or any part of that
amount, from the recipient of the grant.

150.4

Subsections (5) and (6) apply if during the recovery period—

150.4.a

there is a disposal of the whole or part of the interest that the recipient of
the grant held in the building, land or objects to which the grant relates on
the day the grant was made (“ the relevant interest ”), and

150.4.b

the disposal is made by sale, by exchange or by lease for a term of at least
21 years.

150.5

If the disposal is made by the recipient of the grant or by a person to whom
the recipient of the grant has given a part of the relevant interest, the
Welsh Ministers may recover the amount of the grant, or any part of that
amount, from the recipient of the grant.

150.6

If the disposal is made by a person to whom the recipient of the grant has
given the whole of the relevant interest, the Welsh Ministers may recover the
amount of the grant, or any part of that amount, from the person to whom the
gift was made.

150.7

The Welsh Ministers may not recover amounts under this section which in
aggregate exceed the amount of the grant.

150.8

In this section references to giving an interest to a person are references to
giving it to the person directly or indirectly, other than on the death of the
holder of the interest.

###### Acceptance by Welsh Ministers of endowment for upkeep of building

151

151.1

This section applies where—

151.1.a

an instrument contains a provision purporting to be a gift of property of any
kind to the Welsh Ministers on trust to use the income of the property (either
for a limited time or indefinitely) for or towards the repair and maintenance
of a relevant building, or of a relevant building together with other
property,

151.1.b

the provision does not create a charitable trust, and

151.1.c

the Welsh Ministers accept the gift.

151.2

In this section—

“ endowment trust ” (“ ymddiriedolaeth waddol ”) means the trust referred to
in subsection (1)(a); “ relevant building ” (“ adeilad perthnasol ”) means— a
building which the Welsh Ministers consider to be of special architectural or
historic interest and— in which, at the time when the trust instrument comes
into operation, they are or soon will be entitled to an interest, or which at
that time is or soon will be under their control or management, or a building
which at that time is or soon will be under their guardianship under Chapter 6
of Part 2; “ trust fund ” (“ cronfa’r ymddiriedolaeth ”) means the property
given to the Welsh Ministers and any property for the time being representing
that property.

151.3

The validity of the gift and of the endowment trust is not affected, and is to
be treated as never having been affected, by any rule of law or equity which
would not have affected their validity if the trust had been charitable.

151.4

While the endowment trust continues the Welsh Ministers have the same powers
of management, disposition and investment in relation to the trust fund as are
conferred by law on trustees of land in relation to the land and the proceeds
of its sale.

151.5

The powers conferred by subsection (4) are in addition to, and do not limit,
any powers conferred on the Welsh Ministers by the trust instrument.

151.6

If, while the endowment trust continues, an event happens—

151.6.a

which has the immediate effect that the Welsh Ministers are not entitled to
any interest in the building to which the trust relates and do not have the
building under their control or management, and

151.6.b

which would not otherwise cause the endowment trust to come to an end or be
treated as having failed,

on the happening of that event the endowment trust comes to an end and the
trust fund passes as it would on a failure of the trust.

151.7

Subsection (8) applies if the trust instrument contains a provision purporting
to give the trust fund, or to direct the trust fund to be held, on trust for
charitable purposes if the endowment trust fails or comes to an end.

151.8

The validity of the gift or direction is not, and is to be treated as never
having been, affected by any rule of law or equity relating to perpetuities.

151.9

In subsection (4) “ trustees of land ” has the same meaning as in the  Trusts
of Land and Appointment of Trustees Act 1996 (c. 47)  (see section 1(1) of
that Act).

#### GENERAL

##### Powers of entry

###### Powers to enter land

152

152.1

A person authorised in writing by the Welsh Ministers may enter any land to
survey a building on that land or on any other land in connection with a
proposal to list or de-list the building.

152.2

A person authorised in writing by a planning authority may enter any land to
survey a building on that land or on any other land in connection with a
proposal to serve a temporary listing notice in relation to the building.

152.3

A person authorised in writing by a planning authority or the Welsh Ministers
may enter any land to—

152.3.a

survey that land or any other land in connection with a proposal to make an
order under section 107 (modification or revocation of listed building consent
or conservation area consent),

152.3.b

survey that land or any other land in connection with a proposal to make an
order under section 115 (termination of listed building partnership agreement
or provision of agreement), or

152.3.c

assess whether an offence has been or is being committed under section 91(5),
117 or 118.

152.4

A person authorised in writing by a planning authority may enter any land to—

152.4.a

determine whether a temporary stop notice should be issued,

152.4.b

display a copy of a temporary stop notice in accordance with section 119, or

152.4.c

assess whether a temporary stop notice has been complied with.

152.5

A person authorised in writing by a planning authority or the Welsh Ministers
may enter any land to—

152.5.a

survey that land or any other land in connection with a proposal to issue an
enforcement notice,

152.5.b

assess whether an enforcement notice has been complied with,

152.5.c

assess whether a listed building on that land or any other land is being
maintained in a proper state of repair,

152.5.d

survey that land or any other land in connection with a proposal to serve a
repairs notice under section 138, or

152.5.e

assess whether a repairs notice has been complied with.

152.6

A person authorised in writing by a local authority or the Welsh Ministers may
enter any land to—

152.6.a

determine whether works should be carried out under section 144 for the
preservation of a building on that land or on any other land, or

152.6.b

carry out works under that section for the preservation of a building on that
land or on any other land.

152.7

An authorised person may enter any land to survey it, or estimate its value,
in connection with a claim for compensation payable by a planning authority or
the Welsh Ministers under this Part in relation to that land or any other
land.

152.8

In subsection (7) “ authorised person ” means—

152.8.a

an officer of the Valuation Office of His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs, or

152.8.b

a person authorised in writing by the planning authority or the Welsh
Ministers (as the case may be).

152.9

A power to survey land under this section includes power to search and bore to
determine the nature of the subsoil or the presence of minerals.

###### Exercise of power to enter land without warrant

153

153.1

A power to enter land under section 152 may be exercised at any reasonable
time.

153.2

A person authorised to enter land under section 152 may not demand admission
as of right to any land which is occupied unless at least 24 hours’ notice of
the intended entry has been given to every occupier.

153.3

Subsection (2) does not apply to the power to enter land under section 152(4)
(temporary stop notices).

153.4

A person authorised to enter land under section 152—

153.4.a

must, if required to do so by or on behalf of any owner or occupier of the
land, produce evidence of the person’s authorisation and state the purpose of
the entry before entering the land;

153.4.b

may take on to the land any other persons that are necessary;

153.4.c

must, if leaving the land at a time when no owner or occupier is present,
leave it as effectively secured against trespassers as the person found it.

153.5

Where a person—

153.5.a

proposes to carry out works in the exercise of a power of entry under section
152, and

153.5.b

is required to give notice of the intended entry under subsection (2) of this
section,

the person may not carry out the works unless the notice of intended entry
includes notice of the person’s intention to carry them out.

153.6

Where—

153.6.a

a person proposes to carry out works in the exercise of a power of entry under
section 152 on land which belongs to a statutory undertaker, and

153.6.b

the undertaker objects to the proposed works on the ground that carrying them
out would be seriously detrimental to the carrying on of its undertaking,

the person may not carry out the works without the agreement of the
appropriate Minister.

153.7

A person may not enter Crown land in the exercise of a power under section 152
without the agreement of—

153.7.a

a person who appears to the person seeking entry to the land to be entitled to
give that agreement, or

153.7.b

the appropriate Crown authority.

153.8

Subsections (2) to (6) do not apply to anything done by virtue of subsection
(7).

153.9

In subsection (6) “ appropriate Minister ” has the meaning given by section
265 of the  Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (c. 8) .

###### Warrant to enter land

154

154.1

This section applies if a justice of the peace is satisfied on sworn
information in writing—

154.1.a

that there are reasonable grounds for entering land for a purpose mentioned in
section 152, and

154.1.b

that—

154.1.b.i

admission to the land has been refused or a refusal is reasonably expected, or

154.1.b.ii

the case is one of urgency.

154.2

The justice of the peace may issue a warrant conferring a power to enter the
land on any person who is authorised in writing by a person who may authorise
entry under section 152 for the purpose in question.

154.3

For the purposes of subsection (1)(b) admission to land is to be treated as
having been refused if no reply is received to a request for admission within
a reasonable period.

154.4

Section 152(9) applies to a power to survey land conferred by a warrant under
this section.

154.5

A warrant under this section confers a power to enter land—

154.5.a

on one occasion only, and

154.5.b

only at a reasonable time, unless the case is one of urgency.

154.6

A person authorised to enter land under this section—

154.6.a

must, if required to do so by or on behalf of any owner or occupier of the
land, produce evidence of the person’s authorisation and state the purpose of
the entry before entering the land,

154.6.b

may take on to the land any other persons that are necessary,

154.6.c

must, if leaving the land at a time when no owner or occupier is present,
leave it as effectively secured against trespassers as the person found it.

154.7

A warrant under this section ceases to have effect at the end of 1 month
beginning with the day it is issued.

154.8

This section does not apply in relation to Crown land.

###### Supplementary provision about powers of entry

155

155.1

This section applies where a person has a power to enter land conferred by
section 152 or by a warrant under section 154.

155.2

A person who intentionally obstructs a person exercising the power of entry
commits an offence.

155.3

A person guilty of an offence under subsection (2) is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

155.4

If damage is caused to land or other property—

155.4.a

in the exercise of the power of entry, or

155.4.b

in making any survey for the purpose of which the power of entry was
conferred,

a person suffering the damage may recover compensation from the person who
authorised the entry.

155.5

A claim for compensation under subsection (4) must be made in writing within 6
months beginning with the day the damage was caused (or if the damage was
caused over more than one day, the last day it was caused).

155.6

A person commits an offence if the person discloses information which the
person obtained in the exercise of the power of entry, and which relates to a
manufacturing process or trade secret, for a purpose other than that for which
the person was authorised to enter the land.

155.7

A person guilty of an offence under subsection (6) is liable—

155.7.a

on summary conviction, to a fine;

155.7.b

on conviction on indictment, to a fine or imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 2 years, or both.

155.8

This section does not apply to anything done by virtue of section 153(7)
(entry on Crown land).

##### Supplementary

###### Exempt religious buildings

156

156.1

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations provide that a religious building used
for religious purposes is an exempt religious building for the purposes of—

156.1.a

sections 83 and 84 (temporary listing of building);

156.1.b

section 88 (requirement for works affecting listed building to be authorised);

156.1.c

section 118 (offence of intentionally damaging listed building);

156.1.d

section 137 (compulsory acquisition of listed building for preservation);

156.1.e

section 144 (urgent works for preservation of listed building).

156.2

For the purposes of section 88 a building is to be treated as being used for
religious purposes if it would be used for those purposes but for the works in
question.

156.3

Regulations under this section may—

156.3.a

make provision in relation to religious buildings of a description specified
in the regulations (whether by reference to a religious faith or denomination,
a use made of the buildings, or any other circumstance) or in relation to a
particular building;

156.3.b

make provision in relation to all or part of a religious building;

156.3.c

provide that a building is an exempt religious building only in relation to
works of a description specified in the regulations (whether by reference to
the extent of the works, the person by whom they are carried out, or any other
circumstance);

156.3.d

make different provision for buildings in different areas;

156.3.e

make consequential amendments to any other provision of this Act.

156.4

In this section references to a religious building—

156.4.a

include any structure or artificial object that is fixed to a religious
building or within its curtilage;

156.4.b

do not include a building used, or available for use, by a minister of
religion wholly or mainly as a residence from which to perform the duties of
that office.

###### Interpretation of this Part

157

In this Part—

“ enforcement notice ” (“ hysbysiad gorfodi ”) means an enforcement notice
issued under section 123 or 134 (as the case may be); “ exempt religious
building ” (“ adeilad crefyddol esempt ”) is to be interpreted in accordance
with section 156; “ interim protection ” (“ gwarchodaeth interim ”) has the
meaning given by section 79(3); “ listing ” (“ rhestru ”) and “ de-listing ”
(“ dadrestru ”), in relation to a building, have the meanings given by section
76(6); “ local authority ” (“ awdurdod lleol ”) means— a county council or
county borough council in Wales; a National Park authority in Wales; a
community council; a police and crime commissioner in Wales; a fire and rescue
authority in Wales constituted by a scheme under section 2 of the  Fire and
Rescue Services Act 2004 (c. 21)  or a scheme to which section 4 of that Act
applies; a body in Wales which is a levying body within the meaning of section
74(1) of the  Local Government Finance Act 1988 (c. 41) ; a body in Wales to
which section 75 of that Act (special levies) applies; a joint board or joint
committe‍e, if all the constituent authorities are local authorities within
paragraphs (a) to (g); “ temporary listing ” (“ rhestru dros dro ”) has the
meaning given by section 83(5); “ temporary stop notice ” (“ hysbysiad stop
dros dro ”) means a temporary stop notice issued under section 119; “ Wales ”
(“ Cymru ”) means the combined area of the counties and county boroughs in
Wales.

### CONSERVATION AREAS

#### Designation of conservation areas

##### Designating areas of special architectural or historic interest as conservation areas

158

158.1

A planning authority must—

158.1.a

from time to time determine which parts of its area are areas of special
architectural or historic interest whose character or appearance it is
desirable to preserve or enhance, and

158.1.b

designate those parts as conservation areas.

158.2

A planning authority may vary or cancel a designation.

158.3

If a planning authority designates a conservation area, or varies or cancels a
designation, it must give notice that it has done so to the Welsh Ministers.

158.4

The notice must contain enough information to identify the area affected.

158.5

The planning authority must publish the notice with an explanation of the
effect of the designation, variation or cancellation—

158.5.a

in the London Gazette, and

158.5.b

in at least one newspaper circulating in the authority’s area.

158.6

A designation under this section is a local land charge.

#### Duties relating to conservation areas

##### Duty to formulate and publish proposals for preservation and enhancement of conservation areas

159

159.1

A planning authority must from time to time prepare and publish proposals for
the preservation and enhancement of any part of its area which is a
conservation area.

159.2

The authority must submit the proposals for consideration to a public meeting
held in the conservation area to which the proposals relate or, where there is
no suitable place in the conservation area, as near to it as reasonably
practicable.

159.3

The authority must have regard to any views about the proposals which are
expressed at the meeting.

##### Exercise of planning functions: general duty relating to conservation areas

160

160.1

In exercising a planning function in relation to a building or other land in a
conservation area, a person must have special regard to the desirability of
preserving or enhancing the character or appearance of that area.

160.2

In this section “ planning function ” means any function under or by virtue
of—

160.2.a

Part 3, this Part, Part 5 or Part 7 as it applies for the purposes of any of
those Parts,

160.2.b

the  Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (c. 8) , or

160.2.c

section 70 or 73 of the  Leasehold Reform, Housing and Urban Development Act
1993 (c. 28)  (estate management schemes).

#### Control of demolition in conservation areas

##### Requirement for demolition to be authorised

161

161.1

A person must not carry out works for the demolition of a building to which
this section applies, or cause such works to be carried out, unless the works
are authorised under section 162.

161.2

This section applies to any building in a conservation area, except—

161.2.a

a building which is a scheduled monument (but see section 11);

161.2.b

a listed building (but see section 88);

161.2.c

a building of a description specified in regulations made by the Welsh
Ministers;

161.2.d

a building of a description specified in a direction given to an individual
planning authority by the Welsh Ministers.

161.3

The Welsh Ministers may direct a planning authority that, despite any
provision made by regulations under subsection (2)(c), this section is to
apply to a building of a description specified in the direction.

161.4

Subsection (1) does not prohibit works carried out by or on behalf of the
Crown in the circumstances set out in paragraphs (a) to (d) of section 117(4)
(emergency works).

161.5

Schedule 11 makes provision about the effect of this section ceasing to apply
to a building.

##### Authorisation of demolition by conservation area consent

162

162.1

Works for the demolition of a building to which section 161 applies are
authorised if—

162.1.a

written consent to carry them out has been granted by the planning authority
in whose area the building is situated or the Welsh Ministers, and

162.1.b

the works are carried out in accordance with the terms of the consent
(including any conditions attached to it).

162.2

Where—

162.2.a

works for the demolition of a building to which section 161 applies have been
carried out without being authorised, and

162.2.b

the planning authority or the Welsh Ministers grant written consent for the
works,

the works are authorised from the grant of that consent.

162.3

Consent under subsection (1) or (2) is referred to in this Act as conservation
area consent.

##### Application of Part 3 to conservation areas

163

163.1

The following provisions of Part 3 apply in relation to buildings to which
section 161 applies as they apply in relation to listed buildings—

163.1.a

Chapter 2 (control of works), except—

163.1.a.i

sections 88 and 89;

163.1.a.ii

section 90(1)(c) and (4)(b);

163.1.a.iii

section 95;

163.1.a.iv

section 96(2);

163.1.a.v

section 97(5), (6) and (9);

163.1.a.vi

sections 98(3)(b) and 99(5);

163.1.a.vii

section 101(2);

163.1.a.viii

section 104(3);

163.1.a.ix

section 111(5) and (8);

163.1.b

Chapter 4 (enforcement), except—

163.1.b.i

section 117(5);

163.1.b.ii

section 118;

163.1.b.iii

section 128(3)(c);

163.1.c

Chapter 6 (general), except—

163.1.c.i

section 152(1), (2), (3)(b) and (5)(c) to (e);

163.1.c.ii

section 156.

163.2

In their application in relation to buildings to which section 161 applies—

163.2.a

the provisions applied by subsection (1) are to be read as if—

163.2.a.i

any reference to listed building consent were a reference to conservation area
consent;

163.2.a.ii

any reference to the character of a listed building were a reference to the
character or appearance of the conservation area in which the building is
situated;

163.2.a.iii

any other reference to a listed building were a reference to a building to
which section 161 applies;

163.2.a.iv

any reference to section 88 were a reference to section 161;

163.2.b

the provisions applied by subsection (1)(a) are to be read as if—

163.2.b.i

in section 98(3)(a), the reference to section 89(2) were a reference to
section 162(2);

163.2.b.ii

in section 99(3), for “Sections 90 to 95” there were substituted  “Sections 90
to 94” ;

163.2.c

the provisions applied by subsection (1)(b) are to be read as if—

163.2.c.i

in sections 117(4), 121(4) and 127(2)(d), the references to the preservation
of the building were omitted;

163.2.c.ii

in section 126(1), the reference to section 89(2) were a reference to section
162(2);

163.2.c.iii

in section 127(2), for paragraph (a) there were substituted  “that retention
of the building is not necessary in the interests of preserving or enhancing
the character or appearance of the conservation area in which it is situated”
;

163.2.d

the provisions applied by subsection (1)(c) are to be read as if, in section
152(3)(c), the reference to section 118 were omitted.

163.3

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations amend this section to make additional
or different provision about the application of Chapters 2, 4 and 6 of Part 3
in relation to buildings to which section 161 applies.

#### Urgent preservation of buildings in conservation areas

##### Urgent works to preserve buildings in conservation areas

164

164.1

Subsection (2) applies where the Welsh Ministers consider that the
preservation of a building in a conservation area is important for maintaining
the character or appearance of that area.

164.2

The Welsh Ministers may direct that section 144 (urgent works) applies to the
building as it applies to listed buildings.

164.3

Where a direction has effect in relation to a building—

164.3.a

sections 144 to 146 are to be read as if references to a listed building were
references to the building;

164.3.b

section 144(7) is to be read as if paragraph (b) were omitted.

#### Grants and conservation area agreements

##### Grant by Welsh Ministers for preservation or enhancement of conservation areas

165

165.1

The Welsh Ministers may make grants to meet any relevant expenditure that they
consider has made or will make a significant contribution towards the
preservation or enhancement of the character or appearance of a conservation
area.

165.2

Expenditure is relevant for the purposes of subsection (1) if it has been or
is to be incurred in or in connection with, or with a view to the promotion
of, such preservation or enhancement as is mentioned in that subsection.

165.3

The following provisions of this section apply where—

165.3.a

the Welsh Ministers make a grant under subsection (1) in relation to a
building or other land on terms which provide for it to be recoverable under
this section, and

165.3.b

before or on making the grant the Welsh Ministers give notice in writing to
the recipient of the grant which—

165.3.b.i

summarises the effect of this section, and

165.3.b.ii

specifies a period, beginning with the day the grant is made and ending not
more than 10 years after that day, during which the grant is to be recoverable
in accordance with subsections (5) to (7) (“the recovery period”).

165.4

If any condition imposed on the making of the grant is not complied with, the
Welsh Ministers may recover the amount of the grant, or any part of that
amount, from the recipient of the grant.

165.5

Subsections (6) and (7) apply if during the recovery period—

165.5.a

there is a disposal of the whole or part of the interest that the recipient of
the grant held in the building or other land to which the grant relates on the
day the grant was made (“ the relevant interest ”), and

165.5.b

the disposal is made by sale, by exchange or by lease for a term of at least
21 years.

165.6

If the disposal is made by the recipient of the grant or by a person to whom
the recipient of the grant has given part of the relevant interest, the Welsh
Ministers may recover the amount of the grant, or any part of that amount,
from the recipient of the grant.

165.7

If the disposal is made by a person to whom the recipient of the grant has
given the whole of the relevant interest, the Welsh Ministers may recover the
amount of the grant, or any part of that amount, from the person to whom the
gift was made.

165.8

The Welsh Ministers may not recover amounts under this section which in
aggregate exceed the amount of the grant.

165.9

In this section references to giving an interest to a person are references to
giving it to the person directly or indirectly, other than on the death of the
holder of the interest.

##### Conservation area agreements

166

166.1

The Welsh Ministers may make a conservation area agreement with one or more
planning authorities.

166.2

A conservation area agreement is an agreement that a specified amount of money
will be set aside for a specified period of years for the purpose of making
grants for the repair of buildings which are situated in a conservation area
and—

166.2.a

included in a list compiled for the purposes of the agreement by the parties
to it, or by them and other planning authorities, or

166.2.b

shown on a map prepared for those purposes by the parties, or by them and
other planning authorities.

166.3

The Welsh Ministers may pay a grant for the purposes of a conservation area
agreement to a planning authority which is a party to the agreement or any
other person.

166.4

The Welsh Ministers may make arrangements with any such authority about how
the agreement is to be carried out (including arrangements for the offer and
payment of grants under this section).

166.5

Section 165(4) to (9) apply to a grant under this section, but taking the
recovery period to be 3 years beginning with the day the grant is made.

### SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISION ABOUT BUILDINGS OF SPECIAL INTEREST AND CONSERVATION AREAS

#### EXERCISE OF FUNCTIONS BY PLANNING AUTHORITIES AND OTHER LOCAL AUTHORITIES

##### Fees and charges for exercising functions

167

167.1

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations require the payment of a fee or charge
to a planning authority for—

167.1.a

performing any of its functions under Part 3, Part 4, this Part or Part 7 as
it applies for the purposes of any of those Parts;

167.1.b

doing anything which is calculated to facilitate, or is conducive or
incidental to, the performance of any of those functions.

167.2

Regulations under this section may in particular—

167.2.a

make provision about when a fee or charge must be paid;

167.2.b

make provision about who must pay a fee or charge;

167.2.c

make provision about how a fee or charge is to be calculated (including who is
to make the calculation);

167.2.d

specify circumstances in which a fee or charge is to be waived or refunded
(wholly or in part);

167.2.e

specify circumstances in which no fee or charge is to be paid;

167.2.f

make provision about the effect of paying or failing to pay a fee or charge in
accordance with the regulations (which may include provision that amends,
repeals or revokes any enactment, including any provision of this Act);

167.2.g

specify circumstances in which a fee or charge payable to one planning
authority is to be transferred to another planning authority.

167.3

If regulations under this section provide for a planning authority to
calculate the amount of any fees or charges, the authority must ensure that,
taking one financial year with another, its income from the fees or charges
does not exceed the cost of performing the functions, or doing the things, to
which they relate.

##### Arrangements for exercising functions in relation to applications

168

168.1

Sections 319ZA to 319ZD of the  Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (c. 8)
(discharge of functions relating to applications) apply to the exercise by a
planning authority of its functions in relation to applications under or by
virtue of Parts 3 and 4 as they apply to the exercise of its functions in
relation to applications under that Act.

168.2

The validity of a consent or determination granted or made, or purported to be
granted or made, by a planning authority in respect of an application made
under or by virtue of either of those Parts may not be questioned in any legal
proceedings, or in any other proceedings under this Act, on the ground that
the consent or determination should have been granted or made by another
planning authority.

##### Arrangements for obtaining specialist advice

169

169.1

The Welsh Ministers may at any time direct a planning authority to submit for
their approval the arrangements the authority proposes to make for obtaining
specialist advice in connection with its relevant functions.

169.2

The authority must submit its proposed arrangements to the Welsh Ministers
within the period specified in the direction.

169.3

If the Welsh Ministers are not satisfied with the arrangements that the
authority (“ authority A ”) proposes to make, they may direct authority A and
another planning authority specified in the direction (“ authority B ”)—

169.3.a

to make an agreement under section 113 of the  Local Government Act 1972 (c.
70)  to place the services of persons employed by authority B who are
qualified to give the specialist advice at the disposal of authority A, or

169.3.b

to make arrangements for authority B to exercise of any of the relevant
functions of authority A.

169.4

A direction under subsection (3)(b) may make provision about the terms of the
arrangements.

169.5

Before giving a direction under subsection (3) the Welsh Ministers must
consult both planning authorities.

169.6

For the purposes of this section the relevant functions of a planning
authority are its functions under or by virtue of—

169.6.a

sections 83 and 84 (temporary listing of buildings),

169.6.b

Chapter 2 (grant, modification and revocation of consent) of Part 3,

169.6.c

Chapter 3 (listed building partnership agreements) of that Part,

169.6.d

Chapter 4 (enforcement of controls) of that Part,

169.6.e

section 314A(1) of the  Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (c. 8)  (planning
permission for development affecting listed buildings), and

169.6.f

sections 158 to 163 of this Act (designation of conservation areas, duties of
planning authorities and control of demolition).

##### Form of documents

170

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations specify the form and content of any
notice, order or other document that a local authority is authorised or
required to serve, make or issue under or by virtue of Part 3, Part 4, this
Part or Part 7 as it applies for the purposes of any of those Parts.

##### Contributions towards expenditure by local authorities

171

171.1

Any local authority or statutory undertaker may contribute towards expenditure
incurred by a planning authority or other local authority in or in connection
with the exercise of its functions under Part 3 (including its functions under
that Part as applied by section 163).

171.2

Subsection (1) does not apply to expenditure incurred—

171.2.a

in the payment of compensation under sections 80, 86, 108, 116 and 122 (but
this does not prevent an authority complying with a direction under subsection
(3)(b)), or

171.2.b

in or in connection with the exercise of functions under sections 143 to 146,
148 and 149.

171.3

Where compensation is payable by a planning authority or other local authority
in consequence of anything done under Chapters 1 to 4 of Part 3 (including
anything done under Chapter 2 or 4 of that Part as applied by section 163),
the Welsh Ministers may—

171.3.a

contribute towards the payment of the compensation, if the thing was done
wholly or partly in the interest of a service which is provided by the Welsh
Ministers, or

171.3.b

direct another local authority to contribute an amount that the Welsh
Ministers consider reasonable, having regard to any benefit accruing to that
other authority as a result of the thing being done.

171.4

Subsection (3)(b) does not apply where a planning authority is liable to pay
compensation under section 116 in consequence of the termination of a listed
building partnership agreement or a provision of such an agreement.

171.5

In such a case, the Welsh Ministers may direct any other planning authority
that is or was a party to the agreement to reimburse the authority by which
the compensation is payable, in whole or in part.

171.6

The Welsh Ministers may not give a direction under subsection (5) unless they
have consulted all of the planning authorities that are or were parties to the
agreement.

#### PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE WELSH MINISTERS

##### Procedural provisions applying to appeals to Welsh Ministers

###### Fees for appeals

172

172.1

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations require a person who makes an appeal to
which this section applies to pay a fee to the Welsh Ministers.

172.2

This section applies to—

172.2.a

an appeal under section 100 (appeal against decision or failure to make
decision on application for listed building consent or conservation area
consent, for the variation or removal of conditions or for approval of
details);

172.2.b

an appeal under section 127 (appeal against enforcement notice).

172.3

Regulations under this section may in particular—

172.3.a

make provision about when a fee must be paid;

172.3.b

make provision about how a fee is to be calculated (including who is to make
the calculation);

172.3.c

specify circumstances in which a fee is to be waived or refunded (wholly or in
part);

172.3.d

specify circumstances in which no fee is to be paid;

172.3.e

make provision about the effect of paying or failing to pay a fee in
accordance with the regulations (which may include provision that amends,
repeals or revokes any enactment, including any provision of this Act).

###### Determination of appeal by appointed person

173

173.1

An appeal to which this section applies is to be determined by a person
appointed by the Welsh Ministers (instead of by the Welsh Ministers).

173.2

This section applies to—

173.2.a

an appeal under section 100 (appeal against decision or failure to make
decision on application for listed building consent or conservation area
consent, for the variation or removal of conditions or for approval of
details);

173.2.b

an appeal under section 127 (appeal against enforcement notice).

173.3

But this section does not apply to an appeal if—

173.3.a

it is an appeal of a description specified in regulations made by the Welsh
Ministers, or

173.3.b

the Welsh Ministers direct that the appeal is to be determined by them instead
of by an appointed person.

173.4

This section does not affect any provision of this Act or of regulations made
under it that an appeal may be made to, or that a notice of appeal must be
served on, the Welsh Ministers.

173.5

Where an appointed person determines an appeal, the appointed person’s
decision is to be treated as the decision of the Welsh Ministers.

173.6

Schedule 12 makes further provision in connection with appointments under
subsection (1) and directions under subsection (3)(b).

##### Procedural provisions applying to appeals and other proceedings before Welsh Ministers

###### Choice of inquiry, hearing or written procedure

174

174.1

The Welsh Ministers must in each case determine the procedure by which
proceedings to which this section applies are to be considered.

174.2

A determination must provide for the proceedings to be considered in one or
more of the following ways—

174.2.a

at a local inquiry;

174.2.b

at a hearing;

174.2.c

on the basis of representations in writing.

174.3

The Welsh Ministers must make a determination before the end of the period
specified in regulations made by the Welsh Ministers.

174.4

A determination may be varied by a further determination at any time before
the proceedings to which it relates are determined.

174.5

The Welsh Ministers must notify the following persons of a determination—

174.5.a

the applicant or appellant (as appropriate), and

174.5.b

the planning authority concerned.

174.6

The Welsh Ministers must publish the criteria they will apply in making
determinations.

174.7

This section applies to the following proceedings—

174.7.a

an application referred to the Welsh Ministers under section 94 (reference of
application for listed building consent or conservation area consent or for
the variation or removal of conditions);

174.7.b

an appeal under section 100 (appeal against decision or failure to make
decision on application for consent, for the variation or removal of
conditions or for approval of details);

174.7.c

an application for listed building consent or conservation area consent made
to the Welsh Ministers under section 106 (urgent works on Crown land);

174.7.d

an appeal under section 127 (appeal against enforcement notice).

174.8

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations amend subsection (7) to—

174.8.a

add proceedings under or by virtue of Part 3, Part 4 or this Part,

174.8.b

remove proceedings, or

174.8.c

modify a description of proceedings.

###### Procedural requirements

175

175.1

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations make provision about the procedure to
be followed in connection with—

175.1.a

proceedings on any application, appeal or reference made to the Welsh
Ministers under or by virtue of Part 3 or 4 (whether it is considered at a
local inquiry, at a hearing or on the basis of representations in writing);

175.1.b

any other local inquiry or hearing held or to be held by or on behalf of the
Welsh Ministers under or by virtue of any provision of those Parts or this
Part.

175.2

The regulations may include provision about—

175.2.a

the procedure to be followed in connection with matters preparatory or
subsequent to an inquiry or hearing or to the making of representations in
writing;

175.2.b

the conduct of proceedings.

175.3

The regulations may include provision about the procedure to be followed—

175.3.a

where steps have been taken with a view to the holding of an inquiry or
hearing which does not take place,

175.3.b

where steps have been taken with a view to the determination of any matter by
a person appointed by the Welsh Ministers and the proceedings are the subject
of a direction that the matter must instead be determined by the Welsh
Ministers, or

175.3.c

where steps have been taken in pursuance of such a direction and a further
direction is given revoking that direction,

and may provide that such steps are to be treated as compliance, in whole or
in part, with the requirements of the regulations.

175.4

The regulations may—

175.4.a

specify a time limit within which a party to proceedings must submit
representations in writing and any supporting documents, or enable the Welsh
Ministers to give directions setting the time limit in a particular case or in
cases of a particular description;

175.4.b

enable the Welsh Ministers to proceed to a decision taking into account only
the representations in writing and supporting documents that were submitted
within the time limit;

175.4.c

enable the Welsh Ministers, after giving the parties notice in writing of
their intention to do so, to proceed to a decision even though no
representations in writing were submitted within the time limit, if they
consider that they have sufficient material before them to enable them to
reach a decision on the merits of the case.

175.5

The regulations may also make provision about the circumstances in which—

175.5.a

a direction about the payment of the Welsh Ministers’ costs may be given under
section 180;

175.5.b

an order about the payment of a party’s costs may be made under section 181.

175.6

The regulations may provide that in circumstances specified in the regulations
a matter may not be raised in proceedings on an appeal to the Welsh Ministers
unless—

175.6.a

the matter was previously raised before a time specified in the regulations,
or

175.6.b

it is shown that the matter could not have been raised before that time.

##### Local inquiries

###### Power of Welsh Ministers to hold local inquiry

176

176.1

The Welsh Ministers may cause a local inquiry to be held for the purposes of
the exercise of any of their functions under or by virtue of Part 3, Part 4 or
this Part.

176.2

See also paragraph 3(1) of Schedule 12 for the power of a person appointed by
the Welsh Ministers under section 173 to hold a local inquiry in connection
with an appeal.

###### Power of person holding inquiry to require evidence

177

177.1

A person holding a local inquiry under this Part may by summons require any
person—

177.1.a

to attend the inquiry, at a time and place stated in the summons, and to give
evidence, or

177.1.b

to produce any documents in the person’s possession or under the person’s
control which relate to any matter in question at the inquiry.

177.2

The person holding the inquiry may take evidence on oath, and for that purpose
may administer oaths.

177.3

A summons under this section does not require a person to attend the inquiry
unless the person’s necessary expenses of attending are paid or offered to the
person.

177.4

A person may not be required under this section to produce the title (or any
instrument relating to the title) of any land which does not belong to a local
authority.

177.5

It is an offence for a person to—

177.5.a

refuse or deliberately fail to comply with a requirement of a summons under
this section, or

177.5.b

deliberately alter, suppress, conceal or destroy a document the person is
required, or is liable to be required, to produce under this section.

177.6

A person guilty of an offence under subsection (5) is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding the maximum term for summary offences,
or both.

177.7

In subsection (6) “ the maximum term for summary offences ” means—

177.7.a

in relation to an offence committed before section 281(5) of the  Criminal
Justice Act 2003 (c. 44)  comes into force, 6 months;

177.7.b

in relation to an offence committed after it comes into force, 51 weeks.

###### Access to evidence at inquiry

178

178.1

At a local inquiry held under this Part—

178.1.a

oral evidence must be heard in public, and

178.1.b

documentary evidence must be available for public inspection.

178.2

But if a ministerial authority is satisfied that both of the conditions in
subsection (3) are met in relation to an inquiry, it may direct that evidence
of a description specified in the direction is to be heard or available for
inspection at that inquiry only by persons who are specified in the direction
or of a description specified in it.

178.3

The conditions are—

178.3.a

that giving evidence of a particular description in public or making it
available for public inspection would be likely to result in the disclosure of
information about—

178.3.a.i

national security, or

178.3.a.ii

the measures taken or to be taken to ensure the security of any land or other
property, and

178.3.b

that the public disclosure of the information would be against the national
interest.

178.4

If a ministerial authority is considering giving a direction under this
section, the Counsel General may appoint a person (an “appointed
representative”) to represent the interests of any person who will be
prevented from hearing or inspecting any evidence at a local inquiry if the
direction is given.

178.5

If there is no appointed representative when a ministerial authority gives a
direction under this section, the Counsel General may at any time appoint a
person as an appointed representative for the purposes of the inquiry.

178.6

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations make provision about—

178.6.a

the procedure to be followed by a ministerial authority before it gives a
direction under this section in a case where there is an appointed
representative;

178.6.b

the functions of an appointed representative.

178.7

In this section and section 179, “ ministerial authority ” means the Welsh
Ministers or the Secretary of State.

###### Payment of appointed representative where access to evidence restricted

179

179.1

This section applies if a person is appointed under section 178 as an
appointed representative for the purposes of a local inquiry, whether or not
the inquiry takes place.

179.2

A ministerial authority may direct a person (“the responsible person”) to pay
the fees and expenses of the appointed representative.

179.3

The responsible person must be a person that the ministerial authority
considers is, or would have been, interested in the inquiry in relation to—

179.3.a

national security, or

179.3.b

the measures taken or to be taken to ensure the security of any land or other
property.

179.4

If the appointed representative and the responsible person are unable to agree
the amount of the fees and expenses, the amount must be determined by the
ministerial authority that gave the direction.

179.5

The ministerial authority must cause the amount agreed between the appointed
representative and the responsible person, or determined by the ministerial
authority, to be certified.

179.6

The certified amount is recoverable from the responsible person as a debt.

##### Costs of proceedings before Welsh Ministers

###### Payment of costs of Welsh Ministers

180

180.1

This section applies to the following proceedings—

180.1.a

proceedings on an application, appeal or reference made to the Welsh Ministers
under or by virtue of Part 3 or 4 (whether it is considered at a local
inquiry, at a hearing or on the basis of representations in writing);

180.1.b

any other local inquiry or hearing held or to be held by or on behalf of the
Welsh Ministers under or by virtue of any provision of those Parts or this
Part.

180.2

The Welsh Ministers may give a direction requiring the applicant or appellant,
or a planning authority or other party to the proceedings, to pay the costs
incurred by the Welsh Ministers in relation to the proceedings (or so much of
those costs as the Welsh Ministers may direct).

180.3

The costs incurred by the Welsh Ministers in relation to any proceedings
include—

180.3.a

the entire administrative cost incurred by the Welsh Ministers in connection
with the proceedings, including in particular a reasonable amount that they
determine in respect of general staff costs and overheads of the Welsh
Government;

180.3.b

costs in respect of an inquiry or hearing that does not take place.

180.4

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations specify a standard daily amount for
proceedings of a specified description.

180.5

Where proceedings of a specified description take place, the costs incurred by
the Welsh Ministers are to be taken to be—

180.5.a

the standard daily amount for each day (or an appropriate proportion of that
amount for a part of a day) on which a specified person is engaged in dealing
with the case;

180.5.b

costs actually incurred in connection with dealing with the case on—

180.5.b.i

travelling or subsistence allowances, or

180.5.b.ii

the provision of accommodation or other facilities;

180.5.c

any costs attributable to the appointment of specified persons to assist in
dealing with the case;

180.5.d

any legal costs or disbursements incurred or made by or on behalf of the Welsh
Ministers in connection with the case.

180.6

In this section “ specified ” means specified in regulations made by the Welsh
Ministers.

###### Orders relating to costs of parties

181

181.1

This section applies to the following proceedings—

181.1.a

proceedings on an application, appeal or reference made to the Welsh Ministers
under or by virtue of Part 3 or 4 (whether it is considered at a local
inquiry, at a hearing or on the basis of representations in writing);

181.1.b

any other local inquiry or hearing held or to be held by or on behalf of the
Welsh Ministers under or by virtue of any provision of those Parts or this
Part.

181.2

The Welsh Ministers may make orders about—

181.2.a

the costs of the applicant or appellant, or a planning authority or other
party to the proceedings (which may include costs in respect of an inquiry or
hearing that does not take place), and

181.2.b

the person or persons who must pay the costs.

181.3

But the Welsh Ministers may not order a person to pay the costs of another
party unless they are satisfied that—

181.3.a

the person has behaved unreasonably in relation to the proceedings, and

181.3.b

the person’s unreasonable behaviour has caused the other party to incur
unnecessary or wasted expenditure.

181.4

The power to make orders under this section must also be exercised in
accordance with any provision made under section 175(5)(b) (procedural
requirements).

#### VALIDITY AND CORRECTION OF DECISIONS

##### Validity of decisions and orders

###### Validity of certain decisions and orders relating to buildings

182

182.1

The validity of a decision or order to which this section applies may not be
questioned in any legal proceedings except an application for statutory review
under section 183.

182.2

The decisions to which this section applies are—

182.2.a

a decision on a review under section 81 (review of listing decision);

182.2.b

a decision on an application referred to the Welsh Ministers under section 94
(reference of application for listed building consent or conservation area
consent or for the variation or removal of conditions);

182.2.c

a decision on an appeal under section 100 (appeal against decision or failure
to make decision on application for consent, for the variation or removal of
conditions or for approval of details);

182.2.d

a decision on an application for listed building consent or conservation area
consent made to the Welsh Ministers under section 106 (urgent works on Crown
land);

182.2.e

a decision under paragraph 2 of Schedule 9 to confirm or not to confirm a
purchase notice, including—

182.2.e.i

a decision to confirm the notice in relation to only part of the land to which
it relates, and

182.2.e.ii

a decision to grant listed building consen‍t or conservation area consent, or
direct that consent must be granted, instead of confirming the notice in
relation to the land or any part of it;

182.2.f

a decision under section 128(3)(a) or (b) (determination of appeal against
enforcement notice) to grant listed building consent or conservation area
consent or remove a condition of consent.

182.3

The orders to which this section applies are—

182.3.a

an order under section 107 (modification or revocation of consent) made by a
planning authority (whether or not it has been confirmed by the Welsh
Ministers) or the Welsh Ministers;

182.3.b

an order under section 115 (termination of listed building partnership
agreement or provision of agreement) made by a planning authority or the Welsh
Ministers;

182.3.c

an order under section 181 (orders relating to costs of parties) made in
connection with a decision mentioned in subsection (2) or an order mentioned
in paragraph (a) or (b).

182.4

This section does not prevent any court exercising any jurisdiction in
relation to a refusal or failure to make a decision to which this section
applies.

###### Application to High Court for statutory review of decision or order

183

183.1

A person aggrieved by a decision or order to which section 182 applies, or the
authority directly concerned with such a decision or order, may make an
application for statutory review.

183.2

An application for statutory review is an application to the High Court
questioning the validity of the decision or order on the grounds that—

183.2.a

it is not within the powers conferred by this Act, or

183.2.b

a requirement of this Act, or of subordinate legislation made under it, has
not been complied with in relation to the decision or order.

183.3

An application for statutory review may only be made with the permission of
the High Court.

183.4

An application for permission must be made before the end of 6 weeks beginning
with the day after—

183.4.a

in the case of an application relating to a decision mentioned in section
182(2), the day the decision is made;

183.4.b

in the case of an application relating to an order made by a planning
authority under section 107 and confirmed by the Welsh Ministers (with or
without modifications), the day the order is confirmed;

183.4.c

in the case of any other application relating to an order under section 107,
the day the order takes effect;

183.4.d

in the case of an application relating to an order made by a planning
authority under section 115, the day the order is confirmed;

183.4.e

in the case of an application relating to any other order mentioned in section
182(3), the day the order is made.

183.5

When considering whether to give permission, the High Court may make an
interim order suspending the operation of the decision or order to which the
proposed application for statutory review relates until the final
determination of the proceedings on—

183.5.a

the application for permission, or

183.5.b

where permission is given, the application for statutory review.

183.6

On an application for statutory review the High Court—

183.6.a

may make an interim order suspending the operation of the decision or order to
which the application relates until the proceedings are finally determined;

183.6.b

may quash that decision or order if satisfied that—

183.6.b.i

it is not within the powers conferred by this Act, or

183.6.b.ii

the interests of the applicant have been substantially prejudiced by a failure
to comply with a requirement of this Act, or of subordinate legislation made
under it, in relation to the decision or order.

183.7

For the purposes of this section the authority directly concerned with a
decision or order is—

183.7.a

in the case of a decision on an application referred to the Welsh Ministers
under section 94, the planning authority that made the reference;

183.7.b

in the case of a decision on an appeal under section 100, the planning
authority to which the application to which the appeal relates was made;

183.7.c

in the case of a decision to confirm or not to confirm a purchase notice—

183.7.c.i

the planning authority on which the purchase notice was served (see section
109), and

183.7.c.ii

if the Welsh Ministers have modified the notice wholly or in part by
substituting another local authority or statutory undertaker for the planning
authority, that other local authority or statutory undertaker;

183.7.d

in the case of a decision under section 128(3)(a) or (b) on an appeal against
an enforcement notice issued by a planning authority, the authority that
issued the notice;

183.7.e

in the case of an order under section 107, the planning authority in whose
area the building to which the order relates is situated;

183.7.f

in the case of an order under section 115, any planning authority that is or
was a party to the listed building partnership agreement to which the order
relates;

183.7.g

in the case of an order made under section 181 in connection with a decision
or order mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (f), the authority directly concerned
with that decision or order.

###### Appeal to High Court against decision relating to enforcement notice

184

184.1

Rules of court must provide‍ either—

184.1.a

that an interested person may appeal to the High Court on a point of law
against a relevant decision made by the Welsh Ministers, or

184.1.b

that where the Welsh Ministers make a relevant decision an interested person
may require them to state and sign a case for the opinion of the High Court.

184.2

For the purposes of this section—

184.2.a

a relevant decision is any decision (including a direction or order) made in
proceedings on an appeal under section 127 against an enforcement notice,
other than a decision under section 128(3)(a) or (b) to grant consent or
remove a condition of consent;

184.2.b

the following are interested persons—

184.2.b.i

the person who made the appeal,

184.2.b.ii

the planning authority in whose area the building to which the enforcement
notice relates is situated, and

184.2.b.iii

any other person who has an interest in the building.

184.3

At any stage of the proceedings on an appeal under section 127, the Welsh
Ministers may state a question of law arising in the course of the proceedings
in the form of a special case for the decision of the High Court.

184.4

A decision of the High Court on a case stated under subsection (3) is to be
treated as a judgment of the court for the purposes of section 16 of the
Senior Courts Act 1981 (c. 54)  (jurisdiction of Court of Appeal to hear and
determine appeals from judgments or orders of High Court).

184.5

Where proceedings are brought by virtue of this section, the High Court or the
Court of Appeal (as the case may be) may order that the enforcement notice is
to have effect, either in full or to the extent specified in the order,
pending the final determination of the proceedings and any re-hearing and
determination of the appeal by the Welsh Ministers.

184.6

An order under subsection (5) may be made on whatever terms the court
considers appropriate, which may include terms requiring the planning
authority to give an undertaking as to damages or any other matter.

184.7

Rules of court may make provision—

184.7.a

for the Welsh Ministers to be a party to proceedings in the High Court or the
Court of Appeal brought by virtue of this section, either generally or in
circumstances specified in the rules;

184.7.b

about the powers of the High Court or the Court of Appeal to remit the matter
to the Welsh Ministers for re-hearing and determination in accordance with the
opinion or direction of the court.

184.8

Proceedings in the High Court under this section may only be brought with the
permission of the High Court.

184.9

An appeal to the Court of Appeal by virtue of this section may only be brought
with the permission of the High Court or the Court of Appeal.

##### Correction of decisions of Welsh Ministers

###### Meaning of “decision document” and “correctable error”

185

185.1

This section applies for the purposes of sections 186 and 187.

185.2

“ Decision document ” means a document which records—

185.2.a

a decision to which section 182 applies (see subsection (2) of that section),

185.2.b

a decision on an appeal under section 127 (appeal against enforcement notice),
or

185.2.c

any other decision made under or by virtue of Part 3, Part 4 or this Part that
is of a description specified in regulations made by the Welsh Ministers.

185.3

“ Correctable error ” means an error which—

185.3.a

is contained in any part of the decision document which records the decision,
but

185.3.b

is not part of any reasons given for the decision,

and “ error ” includes omission.

###### Power to correct correctable errors in decision documents

186

186.1

This section applies where a decision document is issued which contains a
correctable error.

186.2

If, before the end of the review period, the Welsh Ministers—

186.2.a

receive a request in writing to correct the error from any person, or

186.2.b

send a statement in writing to the applicant which explains the error and
states that they are considering correcting it,

the Welsh Ministers must decide whether or not to correct the error.

186.3

But the Welsh Ministers may not make a correction unless they have informed
the planning authority that they have received the request mentioned in
subsection (2)(a) or sent the statement mentioned in subsection (2)(b).

186.4

The review period is—

186.4.a

where the decision document records a decision to which section 182 applies,
the period within which an application for permission to apply for statutory
review under section 183 may be made to the High Court;

186.4.b

where the decision document records a decision on an appeal under section 127
to which section 182 does not apply, the period within which an application
for permission to bring proceedings under section 184 may be made to the High
Court, not including any time by which the High Court may extend that period,

and it does not matter whether any such application is actually made.

186.5

As soon as practicable after the Welsh Ministers correct the error or decide
not to correct it, they must issue a correction notice.

186.6

A correction notice is a notice which—

186.6.a

specifies the correction of the error, or

186.6.b

gives notice of a decision not to correct it.

186.7

The Welsh Ministers must serve the correction notice on—

186.7.a

the applicant;

186.7.b

if the applicant is not the owner of the building or other land to which the
original decision relates, every owner of the building or land;

186.7.c

the planning authority;

186.7.d

if the correction was requested by any other person, that person;

186.7.e

any other person who is specified, or is of a description specified, in
regulations made by the Welsh Ministers.

186.8

Where the decision document was issued by a person appointed under section
173, the functions of the Welsh Ministers under this section may also be
exercised by that person or by any other person appointed under that section
to determine appeals instead of the Welsh Ministers.

186.9

In this section—

“ the applicant ” (“ y ceisydd ”) means the person who made the application or
appeal, or served the purchase notice, to which the original decision relates;
“ owner ” (“ perchennog ”), in relation to a building or other land, means— an
owner of the freehold estate in the building or land, or a tenant under a
lease of the building or land granted or extended for a fixed term that has at
least 7 years left to run; “ the planning authority ” (“ yr awdurdod cynllunio
”) means the planning authority in whose area the building or other land to
which the original decision relates is situated.

###### Effect and validity of correction notice

187

187.1

If a correction is made under section 186—

187.1.a

the original decision is to be treated as not having been made;

187.1.b

the decision is to be treated for all purposes as having been made on the day
the correction notice is issued.

187.2

If a correction is not made—

187.2.a

the original decision continues to have effect;

187.2.b

section 186 and this section do not affect anything done in pursuance of or in
relation to the decision.

187.3

Where a correction notice is issued in relation to a decision to which section
182 applies, section 183 applies to the correction notice as if it were a
decision to which section 182 applies.

187.4

Where a correction notice is issued in relation to a decision to which section
184 applies, section 184 applies to the correction notice as if it were a
decision to which that section applies.

187.5

Where regulations under section 185(2)(c) specify a description of decision,
the Welsh Ministers must by regulations make provision which corresponds to
section 183 or 184 for questioning the validity of a correction notice issued
in relation to a decision of that description.

187.6

The validity of a correction notice may not be questioned in any legal
proceedings except to the extent provided by virtue of this section.

#### GENERAL

##### The Crown

###### Representation of Crown and Duchy interests in land

188

188.1

This section applies to anything that is required or authorised to be done for
the purposes of Part 3, Part 4 or this Part by or in relation to an owner of
an interest in land (including an interest only as an occupier of the land).

188.2

To the extent that the interest is a Crown interest or a Duchy interest, the
thing must be done by or in relation to the appropriate Crown authority.

###### Service of documents on the Crown

189

189.1

This section applies where a notice or other document is required or
authorised under or by virtue of Part 3, Part 4 or this Part to be served on
the Crown.

189.2

The document must be served on the appropriate Crown authority.

189.3

Sections 205 and 206 (general provisions about methods of service) do not
apply to the service of the document.

###### Enforcement steps in relation to Crown land

190

190.1

A planning authority must not take a relevant enforcement step in relation to
Crown land without the agreement of the appropriate Crown authority.

190.2

The appropriate Crown authority may give agreement subject to conditions.

190.3

In this section “ relevant enforcement step ” means anything done in
connection with the enforcement of a requirement or prohibition imposed by or
under Part 3, Part 4 or this Part.

190.4

It includes—

190.4.a

entering land, and

190.4.b

bringing proceedings or making an application.

190.5

But it does not include—

190.5.a

issuing or serving a notice (for example an enforcement notice or temporary
stop notice), or

190.5.b

making an order (for example an order under section 107 or 115).

##### Interpretation

###### Meaning of “local authority” in this Part

191

In this Part “ local authority ” has the meaning given by section 157.

### OTHER HERITAGE ASSETS AND RECORDS

#### Historic parks and gardens

##### Duty to maintain and publish register of historic parks and gardens

192

192.1

The Welsh Ministers must maintain a register of parks and gardens in Wales
they consider to be of special historic interest, and must publish the up-to-
date register.

192.2

The Welsh Ministers must decide whether, or to what extent,‍ to include as
part of the registration of a park or garden—

192.2.a

any building or water on, adjoining or adjacent to it, or

192.2.b

any land adjoining or adjacent to it.

192.3

The Welsh Ministers may amend the register by—

192.3.a

adding an entry,

192.3.b

removing an entry, or

192.3.c

amending an entry.

192.4

As soon as possible after amending the register, the Welsh Ministers must—

192.4.a

serve notice that they have done so on the persons mentioned in subsection
(5), and

192.4.b

in the case of any amendment under subsection (3)(a) or (c), include with the
notice a copy of the entry or amended entry in the register.

192.5

The persons referred to in subsection (4) are—

192.5.a

every owner and occupier of the park or garden in question (including, if
different, the owners and occupiers of anything appearing in the register by
virtue of subsection (2));

192.5.b

the planning authority in whose area the park or garden is situated
(including, if different, the planning authority in whose area anything
appearing in the register by virtue of subsection (2) is situated).

192.6

In this section references to parks and gardens include—

192.6.a

places of recreation, and

192.6.b

any other designed grounds (including designed ornamental landscapes).

#### Historic place names

##### Duty to maintain and publish list of historic place names

193

The Welsh Ministers must maintain a list of historic place names in Wales, and
must publish the up-to-date list.

#### Historic environment records

##### Duty to maintain historic environment records

194

194.1

The Welsh Ministers must maintain a historic environment record for every
local authority area.

194.2

A historic environment record is a record which provides—

194.2.a

details of every scheduled monument in the authority’s area,

194.2.b

details of every listed building in the authority’s area,

194.2.c

details of every conservation area in the authority’s area,

194.2.d

details of every park or garden in the authority’s area which is included in
the register of historic parks and gardens maintained under section 192,

194.2.e

details of every conflict site in the authority’s area which the Welsh
Ministers consider to be of historic interest,

194.2.f

where a public authority (whether by itself or jointly with other persons)
maintains a list of historic landscapes in Wales, details of every historic
landscape in the local authority’s area which is included in the list,

194.2.g

details of every world heritage site in the authority’s area,

194.2.h

details of every other area or site in the authority’s area which the
authority considers or the Welsh Ministers consider to be of local historic,
archaeological or architectural interest,

194.2.i

information about the way in which the historic, archaeological or
architectural development of the authority’s area, or any part of it, has
contributed to the present character of the area or part and about how that
character may be preserved,

194.2.j

details of relevant investigations carried out in the authority’s area and of
the findings of those investigations, and

194.2.k

a means of accessing details of every historic place name in the authority’s
area which is included in the list maintained under section 193.

194.3

In subsection (2)(e) “ conflict site ” means—

194.3.a

a battlefield or a site on which some other conflict involving military forces
took place, or

194.3.b

a site on which significant activities relating to a battle or other conflict
involving military forces occurred.

194.4

In subsection (2)(g) “ world heritage site ” means anything appearing on the
World Heritage List kept under Article 11(2) of the UNESCO Convention
concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage adopted
at Paris on 16 November 1972.

194.5

In subsection (2)(j) “ relevant investigation ” means—

194.5.a

an investigation by a local authority or the Welsh Ministers for the purpose
of obtaining information of historic, archaeological or architectural interest
relating to the authority’s area, and

194.5.b

any other investigation for that purpose which the Welsh Ministers consider
appropriate to include in the record.

194.6

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations amend this section to vary the meaning
of “historic environment record”.

194.7

Before making regulations under subsection (6), the Welsh Ministers must
consult—

194.7.a

every local authority, and

194.7.b

any other persons the Welsh Ministers consider appropriate.

194.8

For the purposes of this section—

194.8.a

any reference to a local authority’s area includes, in the case of an
authority whose area includes part of the seashore, any part of the sea that
lies seaward from that part of the shore and forms part of Wales, and

194.8.b

an area, site or thing is to be treated as being in a local authority’s area
if any part of it is in the area.

194.9

In this section and section 196, “ local authority ” means a county council or
county borough council in Wales.

##### Access to historic environment records

195

195.1

The Welsh Ministers must—

195.1.a

make every historic environment record available for public inspection, and

195.1.b

make available to a person wishing to inspect a historic environment record
advice on or assistance with retrieving and understanding information provided
in the record or accessed by means of the record.

195.2

If—

195.2.a

a person requests a copy of part of a historic environment record or of
details accessed by means of such a record, and

195.2.b

the Welsh Ministers consider that the request is reasonable,

the Welsh Ministers must provide the person with that copy or those details.

195.3

If—

195.3.a

a person requests the retrieval of information provided in a historic
environment record or accessed by means of such a record, and

195.3.b

the Welsh Ministers consider that the request is reasonable,

the Welsh Ministers must compile a document for the person containing the
information.

195.4

In assessing whether a request is reasonable for the purposes of subsection
(2) or (3), the matters which the Welsh Ministers may take into account
include any previous requests made by or on behalf of the person concerned.

195.5

The Welsh Ministers may charge a fee for—

195.5.a

providing advice or assistance under subsection (1)(b);

195.5.b

providing a copy or details under subsection (2);

195.5.c

compiling a document under subsection (3).

195.6

A fee must be calculated by reference to the cost of providing the service to
which the fee relates.

##### Guidance to certain public bodies about historic environment records

196

196.1

The Welsh Ministers must issue guidance to the bodies listed in subsection (2)
on—

196.1.a

how the bodies may contribute to the compilation of historic environment
records and assist in maintaining the records, and

196.1.b

the use of historic environment records in the exercise of the bodies’
functions.

196.2

The bodies are—

196.2.a

local authorities,

196.2.b

National Park authorities in Wales, and

196.2.c

Natural Resources Wales.

196.3

Those bodies must have regard to the guidance.

196.4

Before issuing guidance under this section, the Welsh Ministers must consult—

196.4.a

the bodies, and

196.4.b

any other persons they consider appropriate.

196.5

The Welsh Ministers must lay before Senedd Cymru any guidance issued under
this section.

### GENERAL

#### Powers to require information about interests in land

##### Power to require information by notice

197

197.1

A relevant authority may serve a notice (an “information notice”) requiring
the occupier of any land or a person who receives rent (either directly or
indirectly) in respect of any land to confirm in writing—

197.1.a

the nature of the person’s interest in the land, and

197.1.b

the name and address of any other person known to the person as having an
interest in the land.

197.2

But a relevant authority may not serve an information notice unless the
information required by the notice is needed by the authority to enable it to—

197.2.a

exercise any of the authority’s functions under or by virtue of Part 2, or

197.2.b

make an order or issue or serve a notice or other document‍ under or by virtue
of Part 3, 4 or 5.

197.3

An information notice may require the information to be given within—

197.3.a

21 days beginning with the day after the day the notice is served, or

197.3.b

any longer period specified by the notice or allowed by the relevant
authority.

197.4

In this section “ relevant authority ” means—

197.4.a

the Welsh Ministers;

197.4.b

a local authority (within the meaning given by section 157).

##### Offences in connection with section 197

198

198.1

A person required to provide information by a notice under section 197 commits
an offence if the person fails, without reasonable excuse, to provide the
information.

198.2

A person guilty of an offence under subsection (1) is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

198.3

A person required to provide information by a notice under section 197 commits
an offence if the person, in purported compliance with the notice, knowingly
provides information which is false or misleading in a material respect.

198.4

A person guilty of an offence under subsection (3) is liable on summary
conviction, or on conviction on indictment, to a fine.

##### Information about interests in Crown land

199

199.1

This section applies to an interest in Crown land which is not a private
interest.

199.2

Section 197 does not apply to an interest to which this section applies.

199.3

But the Welsh Ministers may, for the purpose of enabling a relevant authority
to exercise a function mentioned in section 197(2)(a) or (b), request the
appropriate Crown authority to confirm in writing—

199.3.a

the nature of the authority’s interest in the land;

199.3.b

the name and address of any other person known to the authority as having an
interest in the land.

199.4

The appropriate Crown authority must comply with a request under subsection
(3) except to the extent—

199.4.a

that the information requested is not within the knowledge of the authority,
or

199.4.b

that to do so will disclose information about—

199.4.b.i

national security, or

199.4.b.ii

the measures taken or to be taken to ensure the security of any land or other
property.

#### Offences

##### Offences by bodies corporate

200

200.1

This section applies where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved to have been committed with the consent or connivance of,
or to be attributable to neglect on the part of—

200.1.a

a senior officer of the body, or

200.1.b

a person who was purporting to be a senior officer of the body.

200.2

The senior officer or person (as well as the body corporate) is guilty of the
offence, and is liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

200.3

In this section “ senior officer ” means a director, manager, secretary or
other similar officer of the body corporate.

200.4

But in the case of a body corporate whose affairs are managed by its members,
“ director ” means a member of the body.

##### Civil sanctions

201

201.1

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations make any provision in relation to an
offence under this Act that they could make under Part 3 of RESA 2008 (civil
sanctions) if, for the purposes of that Part—

201.1.a

the Welsh Ministers or any other authority which has an enforcement function
in relation to the offence were a regulator, and

201.1.b

the offence were a relevant offence in relation to that regulator.

201.2

Sections 59(3) and 60(1) and (2) of RESA 2008 (consultation) apply to
regulations under subsection (1) as they apply to an order under Part 3 of
RESA 2008.

201.3

Sections 63 to 70 of RESA 2008 (guidance, exercise of powers, payment into
Welsh Consolidated Fund and disclosure of information) apply in relation to
provision made under subsection (1) as they apply in relation to provision
made under Part 3 of RESA 2008.

201.4

In subsection (1) the reference to an authority which has an enforcement
function is to be interpreted in accordance with section 71 of RESA 2008.

201.5

In this section “ RESA 2008 ” means the  Regulatory Enforcement and Sanctions
Act 2008 (c. 13) .

#### Compensation

##### Making claims for compensation

202

202.1

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations—

202.1.a

make provision about how a claim for compensation under this Act must be made;

202.1.b

amend any provision of this Act which specifies the period within which a
claim for compensation must be made.

202.2

The Welsh Ministers may extend the period for making a claim for compensation
under this Act in a particular case, if they are satisfied that there are good
reasons for doing so.

202.3

The period for making a claim may be extended—

202.3.a

at any time, whether before or after the period ends, and

202.3.b

more than once.

##### Determination of compensation claims by Upper Tribunal

203

203.1

Any dispute about compensation under this Act is to be referred to and
determined by the Upper Tribunal.

203.2

Section 4 of the  Land Compensation Act 1961 (c. 33)  (costs) applies to the
determination of a question referred under this section as it applies to the
determination of a question referred under section 1 of that Act, but as if
references to the acquiring authority were references to the person from whom
compensation is claimed.

##### Compensation for depreciation of value of land

204

204.1

The rules in section 5 of the  Land Compensation Act 1961 (c. 33)  have effect
for the purpose of assessing any compensation for depreciation payable under
this Act, so far as relevant and with any necessary modifications, as they
have effect for the purpose of assessing compensation for the compulsory
acquisition of an interest in land.

204.2

Where an interest in land is subject to a mortgage—

204.2.a

any compensation for depreciation that is payable under this Act in respect of
the interest must be assessed as if the interest were not subject to the
mortgage;

204.2.b

a claim for compensation for depreciation may be made by any mortgagee of the
interest, but that does not affect the right of the person whose interest is
subject to the mortgage to make a claim;

204.2.c

no compensation for depreciation is payable in respect of the interest of the
mortgagee (as distinct from the interest that is subject to the mortgage);

204.2.d

any compensation for depreciation that is payable in respect of the interest
subject to the mortgage must be paid to the mortgagee or, if there is more
than one mortgagee, to the first mortgagee; and it must be applied by the
mortgagee to whom it is paid as if it were proceeds of sale.

204.3

In this section “ compensation for depreciation ” means compensation for loss
or damage consisting of depreciation of the value of an interest in land.

#### Service of documents

##### Service of notices and other documents: general

205

205.1

This section applies where a provision contained in or made under this Act
requires or authorises a notice or other document to be served on a person
(whether the provision uses the word “serve” or “give” or any other term).

205.2

The document may be served on the person in any of the following ways—

205.2.a

by handing it to the person or, in the case of a person who is a body
corporate, handing it to the secretary or clerk of the body at its registered
or principal office;

205.2.b

by leaving it at the person’s usual or last known place of residence or, if
the person has given an address for service, at that address;

205.2.c

by sending it by post in a pre-paid letter—

205.2.c.i

addressed to the person at the person’s usual or last known place of residence
or, in the case of a person who is a body corporate, addressed to the
secretary or clerk of the body at its registered or principal office, or

205.2.c.ii

if the person has given an address for service, addressed to the person at
that address;

205.2.d

if the person has given an address for service using electronic
communications, by sending it to the person at that address using an
electronic communication which complies with the conditions in subsection (3).

205.3

The conditions are that the document is—

205.3.a

capable of being accessed by the person to whom it is sent,

205.3.b

legible in all material respects, and

205.3.c

capable of being used for subsequent reference.

205.4

Where an electronic communication is used to serve a document on a person and
is received by the person outside the person’s business hours, the document is
to be treated as having been served on the next working day.

205.5

See section 233 of the  Local Government Act 1972 (c. 70)  for additional
provision about the methods by which local authorities may serve documents.

##### Additional provision about service on persons interested in or occupying land

206

206.1

This section applies (in addition to section 205) where a provision contained
in or made under this Act requires or authorises a notice or other document to
be served on a person—

206.1.a

as having an interest in a building, monument or land, or

206.1.b

as an occupier of a building, monument or land.

206.2

Where the document is to be served on a person as having an interest in a
building, monument or land, and the name of the person cannot be discovered
after making reasonable inquiries, the document may be addressed to the person
as “the owner” of the building, monument or land (which must be described).

206.3

Where the document is to be served on a person as an occupier of a building,
monument or land, it may be addressed to the person by name or as “the
occupier” of the building, monument or land (which must be described).

206.4

Subsection (5) applies—

206.4.a

where—

206.4.a.i

a document is to be served on a person as having an interest in a building,
monument or land,

206.4.a.ii

the person’s usual or last known place of residence cannot be discovered after
making reasonable inquiries, and

206.4.a.iii

the person has not given an address for the service of the document, or

206.4.b

where a document is to be served on a person as an occupier of a building,
monument or land.

206.5

The document is to be treated as properly served if it is addressed to the
person, clearly marked as an important communication affecting the person’s
property, and is—

206.5.a

sent to the building, monument or land by post and not returned as
undelivered,

206.5.b

handed to a person who is, or appears to be, resident or employed in or on the
building, monument or land, or

206.5.c

attached conspicuously to the building or monument or to an object on the site
of the monument or on the land.

#### Special cases

##### Definitions relating to the Crown

207

207.1

This section applies for the purposes of this Act.

207.2

“ Crown land ” means land in which there is a Crown interest or a Duchy
interest.

207.3

“ Crown interest ” means an interest which—

207.3.a

belongs to His Majesty in right of the Crown or in right of His private
estates, or

207.3.b

belongs to a government department or is held in trust for His Majesty for the
purposes of a government department.

207.4

“ Duchy interest ” means—

207.4.a

an interest belonging to His Majesty in right of the Duchy of Lancaster, or

207.4.b

an interest belonging to the Duchy of Cornwall.

207.5

“ Private interest ”, in relation to Crown land, means an interest which is
neither a Crown interest nor a Duchy interest.

207.6

“ Appropriate Crown authority ”, in relation to Crown land, means—

207.6.a

in the case of land belonging to His Majesty in right of the Crown and forming
part of the Crown Estate, the Crown Estate Commissioners;

207.6.b

in relation to any other land belonging to His Majesty in right of the Crown,
the government department having the management of the land;

207.6.c

in relation to land belonging to His Majesty in right of His private estates,
a person appointed by His Majesty in writing under the Royal Sign Manual or,
if no such appointment is made, the Welsh Ministers;

207.6.d

in relation to land belonging to His Majesty in right of the Duchy of
Lancaster, the Chancellor of the Duchy;

207.6.e

in relation to land belonging to the Duchy of Cornwall, a person appointed by
the Duke of Cornwall or by the possessor for the time being of the Duchy;

207.6.f

in the case of land belonging to a government department or held in trust for
His Majesty for the purposes of a government department, the department.

207.7

“The Crown” is to be treated as including the Senedd Commission.

207.8

Any question that arises about who is the appropriate Crown authority in
relation to any land must be referred to the Treasury, whose decision is
final.

207.9

In this section—

207.9.a

references to His Majesty’s private estates are to be read in accordance with
section 1 of the  Crown Private Estates Act 1862 (c. 37) ;

207.9.b

references to a government department include a Minister of the Crown and the
Senedd Commission (and see section 85 of the  Government of Wales Act 2006 (c.
32) , which provides for references to a government department to include the
Welsh Ministers, the First Minister and the Counsel General).

##### Church of England land

208

208.1

Where any provision contained in or made under this Act requires or authorises
a notice or other document to be served on an owner of land, and the land is
Church of England land, a corresponding document must also be served on the
appropriate Board of Finance.

208.2

Church of England land belonging to an ecclesiastical benefice which is vacant
is to be treated for the purposes of this Act as belonging to the appropriate
Board of Finance.

208.3

Any compensation payable under this Act in relation to Church of England land
must be—

208.3.a

paid to the appropriate Board of Finance, and

208.3.b

applied by that Board for the purposes for which the proceeds of a sale by
agreement of the land would be applicable under any enactment or Church
Measure authorising or disposing of the proceeds of such a sale.

208.4

Where an amount is recoverable under section 22 in relation to Church of
England land, the appropriate Board of Finance may apply any money or
securities held by it towards repaying that amount.

208.5

In this section—

“ appropriate Board of Finance ” (“ Bwrdd Cyllid priodol ”), in relation to
any land, means the Diocesan Board of Finance for the diocese in which the
land is situated;
“ Church Measure ” (“ Mesur gan Eglwys Loegr ”) means a Measure of the Church
Assembly or of the General Synod of the Church of England;
“ Church of England land ” (“ tir Eglwys Loegr ”) means land which—
belongs to an ecclesiastical benefice of the Church of England,
is or forms part of a church subject to the jurisdiction of a bishop of a
diocese of the Church of England or the site of such a church, or
is or forms part of a burial ground subject to the jurisdiction of such a
bishop.

#### General

##### Regulations under this Act

209

209.1

A power to make regulations under this Act is exercisable by statutory
instrument.

209.2

A power to make regulations under this Act includes power—

209.2.a

to make different provision for different purposes;

209.2.b

to make incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitory, transitional or
saving provision.

209.3

In the case of regulations made under the powers mentioned in subsection (4),
the provision that may be made by virtue of subsection (2)(b) includes
provision that amends, repeals or revokes any enactment, including any
provision of this Act.

209.4

The powers referred to in subsection (3) are the powers conferred by—

209.4.a

section 167 (fees for exercise of planning authority functions);

209.4.b

section 172 (fees for appeals relating to listed buildings and buildings in
conservation areas);

209.4.c

section 174(8) (proceedings for which Welsh Ministers must determine
procedure);

209.4.d

sections 185(2)(c), 186(7)(e) and 187(5) (correction of decisions).

209.5

A statutory instrument containing any of the following may not be made unless
a draft of the instrument has been laid before, and approved by a resolution
of, Senedd Cymru—

209.5.a

regulations under section 2(3) (religious buildings that are to be treated as
monuments);

209.5.b

regulations under section 26(8) (application of provisions to scheduled
monument partnership agreements);

209.5.c

regulations under section 114(8) (application of provisions to listed building
partnership agreements);

209.5.d

regulations under section 147 (steps for preservation of listed buildings in
disrepair);

209.5.e

regulations under section 167 (fees for exercise of planning authority
functions);

209.5.f

regulations under section 172 (fees for appeals relating to listed buildings
and buildings in conservation areas);

209.5.g

regulations under section 201 (civil sanctions);

209.5.h

regulations that amend or repeal any enactment contained in primary
legislation (including any provision of this Act).

209.6

Any other statutory instrument containing regulations under this Act is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of Senedd Cymru.

209.7

In subsection (5)(h) “ primary legislation ” means—

209.7.a

an Act of Senedd Cymru;

209.7.b

an Assembly Measure;

209.7.c

an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom.

##### Interpretation

210

In this Act—

                                                                  “ address ”
(“ cyfeiriad ”), in relation to electronic communications, means any number or
address used for the purpose of electronic communications;
“ appropriate Crown authority ” ( “awdurdod priodol y Goron” ) has the meaning
given by section 207(6);
“ building ” ( “adeilad” ) (except in Part 2) means—
any building or structure, or
any part of a building or structure,
but does not (except in section 148) include plant or machinery forming part
of a building or structure;
“ conservation area ” ( “ardal gadwraeth” ) means an area designated under
section 158;
“conservation area consent ( “cydsyniad ardal gadwraeth” ) has the meaning
given by section 162;
“ the Crown ” ( “y Goron” ) is to be interpreted in accordance with section
207(7);
“ Crown interest ” ( “buddiant y Goron” ) has the meaning given by section
207(3);
“ Crown land ” ( “tir y Goron” ) has the meaning given by section 207(2);
“ development ” ( “datblygiad” ) has the meaning given by section 55 of the
Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (c. 8) ;
“ disposal ” (“ gwaredu ”), in relation to land, means disposal by sale,
exchange or lease, by creating an easement, right or privilege, or in any
other way, but does not include disposal by appropriation, gift or mortgage;
“ Duchy interest ” ( “buddiant y Ddugiaeth” ) has the meaning given by section
207(4);
“ electronic communication ” (“ cyfathrebiad electronig ”) has the meaning
given by section 15(1) of the  Electronic Communications Act 2000 (c. 7) ;
“enactment (“ deddfiad ”) means any enactment, whenever enacted or made;
“ functions ” (“ swyddogaethau ”) includes powers and duties;
“ land ” ( “tir” )—
means any corporeal hereditament, including a building or monument, and
in relation to the acquisition of land, includes any interest in or right over
land;
“ lease ” (“ les ”) includes an underlease and an agreement for a lease or
underlease, but does not include an option to take a lease or a mortgage;
“ listed building ” ( “adeilad rhestredig” ) has the meaning given by section
76;
“ listed building consent ” ( “cydsyniad adeilad rhestredig” ) has the meaning
given by section 89;
“ listed building partnership agreement ” (“ cytundeb partneriaeth adeilad
rhestredig ”) has the meaning given by section 113(5);
“ monument ” ( “heneb” ) is to be interpreted in accordance with section 2;
“ owner ” ( “perchennog” ), in relation to land (except in sections 15, 25,
26, 91, 113 and 186), means a person who, whether in their own right or as
trustee for any other person—
is entitled to receive the rack rent of the land, or
would be so entitled if the land were let at a rack rent,
but does not include a mortgagee who is not in possession;
“ planning authority ” ( “awdurdod cynllunio” ) means a local planning
authority, within the meaning given by Part 1 of the  Town and Country
Planning Act 1990 (c. 8) , for an area in Wales;
“ planning permission ” ( “caniatâd cynllunio” ) has the meaning given by
section 336(1) of the  Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (c. 8) ;
“ private interest ” ( “buddiant preifat” ), in relation to Crown land, has
the meaning given by section 207(5);
“ scheduled monument ” ( “heneb gofrestredig” ) has the meaning given by
section 3(7);
“ site ” (“ safle ”), in relation to a monument, is to be interpreted in
accordance with section 2;
“ statutory undertaker ” ( “ymgymerwr statudol” ) means a person who—
is a statutory undertaker within the meaning given by section 262 of the  Town
and Country Planning Act 1990 (c. 8) , or
is deemed by that section to be a statutory undertaker for the purposes of any
provision of that Act,
and references to the “ undertaking ” of a statutory undertaker are to be
interpreted in accordance with that section.

##### Consequential and transitional provision etc.

211

211.1

Schedule 13 contains minor and consequential amendments and repeals.

211.2

Schedule 14 contains transitional and saving provisions.

211.3

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations—

211.3.a

make provision that is incidental or supplementary to, or consequential on,
any provision of this Act;

211.3.b

make transitional, transitory or saving provision in connection with any
provision of this Act.

211.4

Regulations under subsection (3) may amend, repeal or revoke any enactment
(including any provision of this Act).

##### Coming into force

212

212.1

The following provisions come into force on the day after the day this Act
receives Royal Assent—

212.1.a

Part 1;

212.1.b

section 209;

212.1.c

section 210;

212.1.d

section 211(3) and (4);

212.1.e

this section;

212.1.f

section 213.

212.2

The other provisions of this Act come into force on a day appointed by the
Welsh Ministers in an order made by statutory instrument.

212.3

An order under subsection (2) may make transitional, transitory or saving
provision in connection with the coming into force of a provision of this Act.

##### Short title

213

The short title of this Act is the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023.

            END OF INTERIM PROTECTION FOR MONUMENTS

(introduced by section 7(4))

##### Application of this Schedule

1

This Schedule applies where interim protection ends in relation to a monument
because of a notice under section 7(1)(b) or (2)(b).

##### Criminal liability

2

The fact that interim protection has ended does not affect the liability of
any person to be prosecuted and punished for an offence under‍ this Act
committed while the interim protection had effect.

##### Scheduled monument consent

3

Any proceedings on or arising out of an application for scheduled monument
consent relating to the monument lapse, in so far as they relate to consent
required by virtue of the interim protection; and any such consent ceases to
have effect to the same extent.

##### Temporary stop notices

4

Any temporary stop notice relating to the monument ceases to have effect, in
so far as the notice relates to works affecting anything in respect of which
the interim protection had effect.

##### Enforcement notices

5

5.1

Any enforcement notice relating to the monument ceases to have effect, in so
far as the notice relates to works affecting anything in respect of which the
interim protection had effect.

5.2

Any proceedings under section 39 or 40(3) relating to an enforcement notice
lapse, in so far as the notice relates to works affecting anything in respect
of which the interim protection had effect.

5.3

Despite sub-paragraph (1), section 40(1) and (2) continue to have effect in
relation to—

5.3.a

any expenses incurred by a person authorised by the Welsh Ministers as
mentioned in that section, and

5.3.b

any amounts paid on account of those expenses.

##### Injunctions

6

Any proceedings on an application for an injunction under section 42 relating
to the monument lapse, in so far as they relate to the restraint of any actual
or expected breach in relation to anything in respect of which the interim
protection had effect.

            DECISION ON REVIEW BY PERSON APPOINTED BY THE WELSH MINISTERS

(introduced by sections 10(5) and 82(6))

##### Application of this Schedule and meaning of “appointed person”

1

1.1

This Schedule applies to a review carried out by an appointed person—

1.1.a

under section 9 (reviews of certain amendments to the schedule), or

1.1.b

under section 81 (reviews of decisions to list buildings).

1.2

In this Schedule “ appointed person ” means a person appointed under section
9(3) or 81(3) (as the case may be) to carry out and make a decision on a
review.

##### Appointment of another person to make a decision on a review

2

2.1

At any time before an appointed person has made a decision on a review the
Welsh Ministers may—

2.1.a

revoke the person’s appointment, and

2.1.b

appoint another person to make the decision instead.

2.2

Where a new appointment is made, the review, and any inquiry or other hearing
in connection with the review, must start afresh.

2.3

Sub-paragraph (2) does not require any person to be given an opportunity to
make fresh representations or to modify or withdraw any representations
already made.

##### Appointment of assessor to assist appointed person

3

An appointed person may appoint an assessor to provide advice on—

3.a

any matters arising at a local inquiry or hearing held by the appointed person
in connection with a review or in consequence of such an inquiry or hearing,
or

3.b

any matters arising in written representations made to the appointed person in
connection with such a review or in consequence of such representations.

##### Directions

4

The Welsh Ministers may direct that anything that would fall to be done by an
appointed person in connection with a review, other than making a decision on
the review, is to be done instead by the Welsh Ministers.

##### Delegation

5

5.1

An appointed person may delegate to another person anything that would fall to
be done by the appointed person in connection with a review, other than—

5.1.a

the conduct of a local inquiry or hearing, and

5.1.b

the making of a decision on the review under section 9(3)(b) or 81(3)(b).

5.2

The appointed person may determine the extent and terms of a delegation under
sub-paragraph (1) and may amend or revoke the delegation.

##### Public Services Ombudsman (Wales) Act 2019 (anaw 3)

6

Where an appointed person is a member of the staff of the Welsh Government,
the person’s functions of making a decision on a review and doing anything in
connection with it are to be treated for the purposes of the  Public Services
Ombudsman (Wales) Act 2019 (anaw 3)  as functions of the Welsh Government.

            AUTHORISATION FOR CLASSES OF WORKS

(introduced by section 12(1))

            TABLE                               Name of class Authorised works
Class 1: Agricultural, Horticultural and Forestry Works   Agricultural,
horticultural and forestry works of the same kind as works carried out
lawfully on the same spot within the 6 years before the day the works start;
except—         in the case of land on which ploughing has previously been
carried out, works likely to disturb the soil below the depth at which
ploughing has previously been carried out lawfully;           in the case of
other land, works likely to disturb the soil below a depth of 300 millimetres;
sub-soiling, drainage works, the planting or uprooting of trees, hedges or
shrubs, the stripping of top soil, tipping operations, or the commercial
cutting and removal of turf;           the demolition, removal, extension,
alteration or disturbance of a building, structure or work or of the remains
of a building, structure or work;           the erection of a building or
structure;           in the case of works other than domestic gardening works,
the laying of paths, hard-standings or foundations for buildings or the
erection of fences or other barriers.             Interpretation   For the
purposes of this class—         “ domestic gardening works ” includes works
carried out in the non-commercial cultivation of allotments;           “
horticultural works ” includes domestic gardening works;           works are
to be treated as having been carried out lawfully if—         in relation to
any time after the coming into force of this Schedule, the works were carried
out in accordance with the terms of this class, or would have been so carried
out if during the period in question the monument had been a scheduled
monument;           in relation to any time before the coming into force of
this Schedule, the works were carried out in accordance with the terms of
Class 1 of the Schedule to the  Ancient Monuments (Class Consents) Order 1994
(S.I. 1994/1381) , or would have been so carried out if during the period in
question the monument had been a scheduled monument for the purposes of the
Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979 (c. 46) .
Class 2: Coal mining operations Works carried out more than 10 metres below
ground level by any licensed operator (within the meaning of the  Coal
Industry Act 1994 (c. 21) ). Class 3: Works by Canal & River Trust Works of
repair or maintenance carried out by Canal & River Trust, in relation to land
owned or occupied by it, which are essential to ensure the functioning of a
canal; except works involving a material alteration to a scheduled monument.
Class 4: Works for the repair or maintenance of machinery Works of repair or
maintenance to machinery, except works involving a material alteration to a
scheduled monument. Class 5: Works carried out by Historic England Works
carried out by the Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission for England.
Class 6: Works of archaeological evaluation   Works of archaeological
evaluation carried out by or on behalf of a person who has applied for
scheduled monument consent, where the works are carried out—         to supply
the Welsh Ministers with information required by them to determine the
application,           under the supervision of a person approved in writing
by the Welsh Ministers, and           in accordance with a written
specification approved by the Welsh Ministers.         Class 7: Works grant
aided by the Welsh Ministers Works for the preservation, maintenance or
management of a scheduled monument where the works are carried out in
accordance with the terms of a written agreement under which the Welsh
Ministers meet, or contribute towards, the cost of those works. Class 8: Works
undertaken by the Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of
Wales Works consisting of placing survey markers to a depth not exceeding 300
millimetres for the purpose of measured surveying of visible remains, where
the works are carried out by the Royal Commission on the Ancient and
Historical Monuments of Wales.

##### Power to amend Schedule

1

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations amend this Schedule to—

1.a

add a class of works to the table;

1.b

modify a description of a class of works;

1.c

remove a class of works.

            PROCEDURE FOR ORDERS MODIFYING OR REVOKING SCHEDULED MONUMENT
CONSENT

(introduced by section 20(3))

##### NOTICE OF PROPOSED MODIFICATION OR REVOCATION

###### Requirement to serve a notice of proposed modification or revocation

1

1.1

Before making an order under section 20 modifying or revoking a scheduled
monument consent the Welsh Ministers must serve a notice of the proposed
modification or proposed revocation on—

1.1.a

every owner and occupier of the monument, and

1.1.b

any other person the Welsh Ministers consider would be affected by the
proposal.

1.2

A notice under this paragraph must—

1.2.a

include a copy of the order the Welsh Ministers propose to make,

1.2.b

set out the reasons for the proposed modification or proposed revocation,

1.2.c

state that the person served with the notice has 28 days, beginning with the
day after the day of service of the notice, to make an objection about the
proposal to the Welsh Ministers, and

1.2.d

state the way in which an objection must be made.

1.3

Where a proposed modification would exclude any works from the scope of the
scheduled monument consent, the notice must provide that those works must not
be carried out on or after a day specified by the notice.

1.4

Where a proposed modification would affect the carrying out of any of the
works to which the consent relates in any other way, the notice must provide
that the works must not be carried out on or after a day specified by the
notice in a way specified in the notice.

1.5

A notice of proposed revocation must provide that the works to which the
scheduled monument consent relates must not be carried out on or after a day
specified by the notice.

###### Effect of notice under paragraph 1 on authorisation to carry out works

2

2.1

Where a notice under paragraph 1 provides that works specified in the notice
must not be carried out on or after a day specified by the notice, the
specified works are not authorised for the purposes of Chapter 3 of Part 2 of
this Act from the beginning of that day.

2.2

Where a notice under paragraph 1 provides that works specified in the notice
must not be carried out on or after a day specified by the notice in a way
specified in the notice, the specified works, if carried out that way, are not
authorised for the purposes of Chapter 3 of Part 2 of this Act from the
beginning of that day.

2.3

Where a notice under paragraph 1 provides that the works to which the
scheduled monument consent relates must not be carried out on or after a day
specified by the notice, those works are not authorised under Chapter 3 of
Part 2 of this Act from the beginning of that day.

2.4

The preceding provisions of this paragraph cease to apply in relation to any
works affected by a notice under paragraph 1—

2.4.a

where the Welsh Ministers make an order under section 20 within the period of
21 months beginning with the day the notice was served (“the 21 month
period”), when the order is made (at which point authorisation ceases to the
extent provided in the order),

2.4.b

where the Welsh Ministers, within the 21 month period, serve notice on every
owner and occupier of the monument that they have decided not to make the
order, at the beginning of the day specified for the purposes of this
paragraph by the Welsh Ministers in the notice, or

2.4.c

in any other case, at the end of the 21 month period.

##### PROCEEDING TO MAKE AN ORDER AFTER SERVICE OF NOTICE

###### Making an order under section 20

3

3.1

This paragraph applies where a notice under paragraph 1 has been served under
Part 1 of this Schedule.

3.2

The Welsh Ministers may not make the order to which the notice relates unless—

3.2.a

the period for making objections to the proposal has ended without an
objection being made by a person on whom the notice was served,

3.2.b

if an objection was made by such a person within that period, all such
objections have been withdrawn, or

3.2.c

if an objection was made during that period by such a person and the objection
has not been withdrawn, the requirements of sub-paragraphs (3) and (4) have
been met.

3.3

The requirements of this sub-paragraph are met if the Welsh Ministers—

3.3.a

cause a local inquiry to be held, or

3.3.b

give the person who made the objection an opportunity to appear before and be
heard by a person appointed by them.

3.4

The requirements of this sub-paragraph are met if the Welsh Ministers—

3.4.a

consider each objection made as described in sub-paragraph (2)(c) and not
withdrawn, and

3.4.b

if an inquiry or hearing has been held under sub-paragraph (3), consider the
report of the person who held it.

3.5

Where a person takes the opportunity to appear before and be heard by a person
appointed by the Welsh Ministers under sub-paragraph (3)(b), the Welsh
Ministers must give each of the following persons the opportunity to be heard
on the same occasion—

3.5.a

every other person on whom the notice under paragraph 1 was served, and

3.5.b

any other person the Welsh Ministers consider appropriate.

3.6

Where the Welsh Ministers make an order under section 20 by virtue of sub-
paragraph (2)(a) or (b), the order must be made on the terms set out by the
notice.

3.7

Where the Welsh Ministers make an order under section 20 by virtue of sub-
paragraph (2)(c), the order may be made either on the terms set out in the
notice or with‍ modifications.

###### Notification once order made

4

As soon as practicable after making an order under section 20 the Welsh
Ministers must send a copy of the order—

4.a

to every person served with a notice under paragraph 1, and

4.b

where—

4.b.i

an inquiry was held under paragraph 3(3)(a), to any other person who gave
evidence at the inquiry, or

4.b.ii

a hearing was held for the purposes of paragraph 3(3)(b), to any other person
who was given the opportunity to appear at the hearing.

##### SUPPLEMENTARY

###### Procedure after hearing or inquiry

5

5.1

The person appointed to carry out a hearing or inquiry under paragraph 3 must,
after the close of the hearing or inquiry, make a report in writing to the
Welsh Ministers.

5.2

The report must include the appointed person’s conclusions and recommendation
as to whether the modification or revocation ought to be made (or the
appointed person’s reasons for not making a recommendation).

            TERMINATION BY ORDER OF SCHEDULED MONUMENT PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT

(introduced by section 27(4))

##### NOTICE OF PROPOSED TERMINATION

###### Requirement to serve notice of proposed termination

1

1.1

Before making an order under section 27 terminating a scheduled monument
partnership agreement or a provision of such an agreement the Welsh Ministers
must serve notice of a proposal to make the order (a “notice of proposed
termination”) on—

1.1.a

the other parties to the agreement, and

1.1.b

any other person the Welsh Ministers consider to have an interest in the
agreement.

1.2

A notice of proposed termination must—

1.2.a

include a copy of the order the Welsh Ministers propose to make,

1.2.b

set out the reasons for the proposed termination,

1.2.c

state that the person served with the notice has 28 days, beginning with the
day after the day the notice is served, to make an objection about the
proposal to the Welsh Ministers, and

1.2.d

state the way in which an objection must be made.

1.3

Where the effect of the order proposed to be made under section 27 would be to
revoke a scheduled monument consent granted by the agreement, the notice of
proposed termination must provide that the works to which the consent relates
must not be carried out on or after a day specified by the notice.

1.4

Where the effect of an order proposed to be made under section 27 would be to
exclude any works from the scope of a scheduled monument consent granted by
the agreement, the notice of proposed termination must provide that the
affected works must not be carried out on or after a day specified by the
notice.

###### Effect on authorised works of service of notice of proposed termination

2

2.1

Where a notice of proposed termination provides that the works to which a
scheduled monument consent relates must not be carried out on or after a day
specified by the notice, those works are not authorised for the purposes of
Chapter 3 of Part 2 of this Act from the beginning of that day.

2.2

Where a notice of proposed termination provides that works specified in the
notice must not be carried out on or after a day specified by the notice, the
specified works are not authorised for the purposes of Chapter 3 of Part 2 of
this Act from the beginning of that day.

2.3

The preceding provisions of this paragraph cease to apply in relation to any
works affected by a notice of proposed termination—

2.3.a

where the Welsh Ministers make an order under section 27 within the period of
21 months beginning with the day the notice of proposed termination was served
(“the 21 month period”), when the order is made (at which point authorisation
ceases to the extent provided in the order),

2.3.b

where the Welsh Ministers, within the 21 month period, serve notice on each
person on whom the notice of proposed termination was served that they have
decided not to make the order, at the beginning of the day specified for the
purposes of this paragraph by the Welsh Ministers in the notice, or

2.3.c

in any other case, at the end of the 21 month period.

##### PROCEEDING TO MAKE AN ORDER AFTER SERVICE OF NOTICE

###### Making an order under section 27

3

3.1

This paragraph applies where a notice of proposed termination has been served
under Part 1 of this Schedule.

3.2

The Welsh Ministers may not make the order to which the notice relates unless—

3.2.a

the period for making objections to the proposal has ended without an
objection being made by a person on whom the notice was served,

3.2.b

if an objection was made by such a person within that period, all such
objections have been withdrawn, or

3.2.c

if an objection was made during that period by such a person and the objection
has not been withdrawn, the requirements of sub-paragraphs (3) and (4) have
been met.

3.3

The requirements of this sub-paragraph are met if the Welsh Ministers—

3.3.a

cause a local inquiry to be held, or

3.3.b

give the person who made the objection an opportunity to appear before and be
heard by a person appointed by them.

3.4

The requirements of this sub-paragraph are met if the Welsh Ministers—

3.4.a

consider each objection made as described in sub-paragraph (2)(c) and not
withdrawn, and

3.4.b

if an inquiry or hearing has been held under sub-paragraph (3), consider the
report of the person who held it.

3.5

Where a person takes the opportunity to appear before and be heard by a person
appointed by the Welsh Ministers under sub-paragraph (3)(b), the Welsh
Ministers must give each of the following persons the opportunity to be heard
on the same occasion—

3.5.a

every other person served with the notice of proposed termination, and

3.5.b

any other person the Welsh Ministers consider appropriate.

3.6

Where the Welsh Ministers make an order under section 27 by virtue of sub-
paragraph (2)(a) or (b), the order must be made on the terms set out by the
notice of proposed termination.

3.7

Where the Welsh Ministers make an order under section 27 by virtue of sub-
paragraph (2)(c), the order may be made either on the terms set out by the
notice of proposed termination or with‍ modifications.

###### Notification once order made

4

As soon as practicable after making an order under section 27 the Welsh
Ministers must send a copy of the order—

4.a

to every person on whom a notice of proposed termination was served, and

4.b

where—

4.b.i

an inquiry was held under paragraph 3(3)(a), to any other person who gave
evidence at the inquiry, or

4.b.ii

a hearing was held under paragraph 3(3)(b), to any other person who was given
the opportunity to appear at the hearing.

##### SUPPLEMENTARY

###### Procedure after hearing or inquiry

5

5.1

The person appointed to carry out a hearing or inquiry under paragraph 3 must,
after the close of the hearing or inquiry, make a report in writing to the
Welsh Ministers.

5.2

The report must include the appointed person’s conclusions and recommendation
as to whether an order under section 27 ought to be made (or the appointed
person’s reasons for not making a recommendation).

            PROCEEDINGS UNDER PART 2

(introduced by sections 10(5), 17(6), 20(3) and 27(4))

##### Evidence at local inquiries

1

1.1

A person appointed to hold a local inquiry under Part 2 of this Act may by
summons require any person—

1.1.a

to attend the inquiry, at a time and place stated in the summons, and to give
evidence, or

1.1.b

to produce any documents in the person’s possession or under the person’s
control which relate to any matter in question at the inquiry.

1.2

The person appointed to hold the inquiry may take evidence on oath, and for
that purpose may administer oaths.

1.3

A summons under this paragraph does not require a person to attend the inquiry
unless the person’s necessary expenses of attending are paid or offered to the
person.

1.4

A person may not be required under this paragraph to produce the title (or any
instrument relating to the title) of any land which does not belong to a local
authority.

##### Offence relating to failure to comply with summons under paragraph 1

2

2.1

It is an offence for a person to—

2.1.a

refuse or deliberately fail to comply with a requirement of a summons under
paragraph 1, or

2.1.b

deliberately alter, suppress, conceal or destroy a document the person is
required, or is liable to be required, to produce under that paragraph.

2.2

A person guilty of an offence under sub-paragraph (1) is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding the maximum term for summary offences,
or both.

2.3

In sub-paragraph (2) “ the maximum term for summary offences ” means—

2.3.a

in relation to an offence committed before section 281(5) of the  Criminal
Justice Act 2003 (c. 44)  comes into force, 6 months;

2.3.b

in relation to an offence committed after it comes into force, 51 weeks.

##### Costs of certain proceedings under this Part

3

3.1

This paragraph applies in relation to the following proceedings—

3.1.a

a review by the Welsh Ministers under section 9 (reviews of decisions to add
monument to the schedule etc.);

3.1.b

a local inquiry or hearing, or an opportunity to make written representations,
under section 17 (determining applications for scheduled monument consent);

3.1.c

a local inquiry or hearing under Part 2 of Schedule 4 (proposed modification
or revocation of scheduled monument consent).

3.2

The Welsh Ministers may direct that the costs incurred by them in relation to
the proceedings (including the costs of any person appointed by them to hold
the proceedings) must be paid by any party to the proceedings specified in the
direction.

3.3

The amount of the costs incurred and directed to be paid as mentioned in sub-
paragraph (2) may be recovered by the Welsh Ministers summarily as a civil
debt.

3.4

The Welsh Ministers may, in relation to the proceedings, make orders about—

3.4.a

the costs of the parties to the proceedings, and

3.4.b

the party or parties who must pay the costs.

3.5

Costs payable by virtue of sub-paragraph (4) may be recovered as if they were
payable under an order of the High Court, if the High Court so orders on the
application of the person to whom the costs are due.

3.6

The Welsh Ministers may not make an order under sub-paragraph (4) requiring a
person to pay the costs of another party to the proceedings unless they are
satisfied that—

3.6.a

the person has behaved unreasonably in relation to the proceedings, and

3.6.b

the person’s unreasonable behaviour has caused the other party to incur
unnecessary or wasted expenditure.

3.7

References in this paragraph to costs incurred by the Welsh Ministers include—

3.7.a

the entire administrative cost incurred by them in connection with the
proceedings, including in particular a reasonable amount that they determine
in respect of general staff costs and overheads of the Welsh Government;

3.7.b

costs incurred by them (or by persons appointed by them) in respect of
proceedings that do not take place.

##### Costs of reviews held under section 9 by appointed person

4

Where a review under section 9 is carried out by a person appointed by the
Welsh Ministers under subsection (3) of that section, the appointed person has
the same powers in relation to the review as the Welsh Ministers have under
paragraph 3.

            END OF INTERIM PROTECTION OR TEMPORARY LISTING FOR BUILDINGS

(introduced by sections 79(6) and 85(4))

##### Introduction

1

This Schedule applies where—

1.a

interim protection ends in relation to a building because the Welsh Ministers
serve notice under section 79(5)(b) that they have decided not to list the
building, or

1.b

temporary listing ends in relation to a building—

1.b.i

at the end of the 6-month period mentioned in section 85(1), or

1.b.ii

because the Welsh Ministers give notification under section 85(3) that they do
not intend to consult on a proposal to list the building.

##### Criminal liability

2

The fact that the building is no longer treated as if it were a listed
building does not affect the liability of any person to be prosecuted and
punished for an offence under‍ this Act committed while the building was
treated as a listed building.

##### Listed building consent

3

Any proceedings on or arising out of an application for listed building
consent relating to the building lapse; and any such consent ceases to have
effect.

##### Temporary stop notices

4

Any temporary stop notice relating to the building ceases to have effect.

##### Enforcement notices

5

5.1

Any enforcement notice relating to the building ceases to have effect.

5.2

Any proceedings on an appeal against such a notice lapse.

5.3

Despite sub-paragraph (1), section 132(1) to (6) continue to have effect in
relation to—

5.3.a

any expenses incurred by a planning authority or the Welsh Ministers, or by an
owner or occupier, as mentioned in that section, and

5.3.b

any amounts paid on account of those expenses.

##### Injunctions

6

Any proceedings on an application for an injunction under section 135 relating
to the building lapse.

            PROCEDURE FOR ORDERS MODIFYING OR REVOKING LISTED BUILDING CONSENT

(introduced by section 107(3))

##### ORDERS MADE BY PLANNING AUTHORITIES

###### Circumstances in which orders take effect

1

An order under section 107 made by a planning authority takes effect only—

1.a

if it is confirmed by the Welsh Ministers under paragraph 2, or

1.b

in accordance with paragraph 3.

###### Procedure for confirmation of orders by Welsh Ministers

2

2.1

Where a planning authority submits an order under section 107 to the Welsh
Ministers for confirmation, it must serve notice of the submission of the
order on—

2.1.a

every owner and occupier of the listed building to which the order relates,
and

2.1.b

any other person it thinks will be affected by the order.

2.2

The notice must specify the period within which a person on whom it is served
may make a request in writing to the Welsh Ministers for an opportunity to
appear before and be heard by a person appointed by the Welsh Ministers.

2.3

If a person on whom the notice is served makes such a request within that
period, before confirming the order the Welsh Ministers must give such an
opportunity to that person and the planning authority.

2.4

The period specified under sub-paragraph (2) must be at least 28 days
beginning with the day after the day the notice is served.

2.5

The Welsh Ministers may confirm the order with or without modifications.

###### Procedure for orders to take effect without confirmation

3

3.1

This paragraph applies where—

3.1.a

a planning authority has made an order under section 107, and

3.1.b

the following persons have notified the authority in writing that they do not
object to the order—

3.1.b.i

every owner and occupier of the listed building to which the order relates,
and

3.1.b.ii

every other person the authority thinks will be affected by the order.

3.2

The planning authority must (instead of submitting the order to the Welsh
Ministers for confirmation)—

3.2.a

publish notice of the making of the order in the way specified in regulations
made by the Welsh Ministers,

3.2.b

serve a copy of the notice on the persons mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(b),
and

3.2.c

send a copy of the notice to the Welsh Ministers not later than 3 days after
the day it is published.

3.3

The notice must specify—

3.3.a

the period within which persons affected by the order may give notice to the
Welsh Ministers that they want the order to be submitted to the Welsh
Ministers for confirmation under the procedure in paragraph 2;

3.3.b

the period at the end of which, if no such notice is given and the Welsh
Ministers do not direct that the order must be submitted to them for
confirmation, the order will take effect without being confirmed by the Welsh
Ministers.

3.4

If at the end of the period specified under sub-paragraph (3)(a)—

3.4.a

no person affected by the order has given notice to the Welsh Ministers as
mentioned in sub-paragraph (3)(a), and

3.4.b

the Welsh Ministers have not directed that the order must be submitted to them
for confirmation,

the order takes effect at the end of the period specified under sub-paragraph
(3)(b).

3.5

The period specified under sub-paragraph (3)(a) must be at least 28 days
beginning with the day after the day the notice of the making of the order is
first published.

3.6

The period specified under sub-paragraph (3)(b) must be at least 14 days after
the end of the period specified under sub-paragraph (3)(a).

##### ORDERS MADE BY THE WELSH MINISTERS

###### Procedure to be followed before making order

4

4.1

The Welsh Ministers must not make an order under section 107 without
consulting the planning authority in whose area the listed building to which
the order relates is situated.

4.2

Before making an order under section 107 the Welsh Ministers must also serve
notice of the proposed order on—

4.2.a

every owner and occupier of the building, and

4.2.b

any other person they think will be affected by the order.

4.3

The notice must specify the period within which a person on whom it is served
may make a request in writing to the Welsh Ministers for an opportunity to
appear before and be heard by a person appointed by the Welsh Ministers.

4.4

If a person on whom the notice is served makes such a request within that
period, before making the order the Welsh Ministers must give such an
opportunity to that person and the planning authority.

4.5

The period specified under sub-paragraph (3) must be at least 28 days
beginning with the day after the day the notice is served.

            ACTION FOLLOWING SERVICE OF PURCHASE NOTICE

(introduced by section 112)

##### Response to purchase notice by planning authority

1

1.1

Where a person has served a purchase notice on a planning authority, the
authority must serve an acceptance notice or rejection notice on the person.

1.2

An acceptance notice is a notice stating either—

1.2.a

that the planning authority is willing to comply with the purchase notice, or

1.2.b

that another local authority or statutory undertaker specified in the
acceptance notice has agreed to comply with the purchase notice.

1.3

A rejection notice is a notice stating—

1.3.a

that for reasons specified in the notice, the planning authority is not
willing to comply with the purchase notice and has not found any other local
authority or statutory undertaker willing to comply with it, and

1.3.b

that the planning authority has sent copies of the purchase notice and
rejection notice to the Welsh Ministers.

1.4

An acceptance notice or rejection notice must be served before the end of 3
months beginning with the day the purchase notice was served.

1.5

Where the planning authority serves an acceptance notice on a person, that
authority or (in the case of a notice falling within sub-paragraph (2)(b)) the
other local authority or statutory undertaker specified in the notice is to be
treated—

1.5.a

as being authorised under section 137 to acquire the person’s interest
compulsorily, and

1.5.b

as having served a notice to treat in respect of that interest on the day the
acceptance notice is served.

1.6

Before serving a rejection notice on a person, the planning authority must
send the Welsh Ministers—

1.6.a

a copy of the rejection notice, and

1.6.b

a copy of the purchase notice.

1.7

A notice to treat which is treated as having been served by virtue of sub-
paragraph (5)(b) may not be withdrawn under section 31 of the  Land
Compensation Act 1961 (c. 33) .

##### Action to be taken by Welsh Ministers on rejection of purchase notice by planning authority

2

2.1

This paragraph applies where a copy of a purchase notice is sent to the Welsh
Ministers under paragraph 1(6).

2.2

The Welsh Ministers must confirm the purchase notice if they are satisfied—

2.2.a

that the sets of conditions in section 109 are met in relation to the land to
which the notice relates, and

2.2.b

that the land to which the notice relates includes all of the land adjoining
or adjacent to the listed building that they consider is required—

2.2.b.i

for preserving the building or its amenities,

2.2.b.ii

for providing or facilitating access to it, or

2.2.b.iii

for its proper control or management,

but this is subject to the following provisions.

2.3

If the Welsh Ministers are satisfied that the sets of conditions in section
109 are met only in relation to part of the land, they must confirm the notice
only in relation to that part.

2.4

Instead of confirming the purchase notice, the Welsh Ministers may—

2.4.a

in the case of a notice served in consequence of a refusal of listed building
consent for any works, grant listed building consent for the works;

2.4.b

in the case of a notice served in consequence of a grant of listed building
consent for any works subject to conditions, vary or remove the conditions so
far as they consider necessary to enable the land to which the notice relates
to be made‍ usable by carrying out the works;

2.4.c

in the case of a notice served in consequence of an order under section 107
revoking listed building consent, revoke the order;

2.4.d

in the case of a notice served in consequence of an order under that section
modifying listed building consent for any works by imposing conditions, vary
or remove the conditions so far as they consider necessary to enable the land
to which the notice relates to be made‍ usable by carrying out the works.

2.5

Sub-paragraph (6) applies if the Welsh Ministers consider that the land to
which the notice relates, or any part of it, could be made‍ usable within a
reasonable time by carrying out—

2.5.a

any other works for which listed building consent ought to be granted, or

2.5.b

any development for which planning permission ought to be granted.

2.6

Instead of confirming the purchase notice in relation to the land or that part
of it, the Welsh Ministers may direct that, if an application is made for
listed building consent for those works, or for planning permission for that
development, it must be granted.

2.7

In confirming a purchase notice the Welsh Ministers may, if they consider it
appropriate having regard to the probable ultimate use of the land to which
the notice relates, modify the notice in relation to all or any part of the
land by substituting another local authority or statutory undertaker for the
planning authority on which the notice was served.

2.8

If the Welsh Ministers are not satisfied as mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) in
relation to a purchase notice, they must refuse to confirm the notice .

2.9

In this paragraph references to the land to which a purchase notice relates
are to the listed building and associated land (if any) in respect of which
the notice is served.

##### Procedure before Welsh Ministers take action in relation to purchase notice

3

3.1

Before taking any action in relation to a purchase notice under paragraph 2,
the Welsh Ministers must serve notice of their proposed action—

3.1.a

on the person who served the purchase notice,

3.1.b

on the planning authority on which the purchase notice was served, and

3.1.c

if they propose to substitute any other local authority or statutory
undertaker for the planning authority, on the other local authority or
statutory undertaker.

3.2

A notice under sub-paragraph (1) must specify the period within which any of
the persons on whom it is served may make a request in writing to the Welsh
Ministers for an opportunity to appear before and be heard by a person
appointed by the Welsh Ministers.

3.3

If a person on whom the notice is served makes a request within that period,
the Welsh Ministers must give that person such an opportunity before they take
any action in relation to the purchase notice under paragraph 2.

3.4

The period specified under sub-paragraph (2) must be at least 28 days
beginning with the day after the day the notice under sub-paragraph (1) is
served.

3.5

If, after any persons have appeared before and been heard by an appointed
person, the Welsh Ministers consider it appropriate to take action under
paragraph 2 otherwise than in accordance with the notice served under sub-
paragraph (1), they may do so.

##### Effect of Welsh Ministers’ action in relation to purchase notice

4

4.1

Where the Welsh Ministers confirm a purchase notice, the authority mentioned
in sub-paragraph (2) is to be treated—

4.1.a

as being authorised under section 137 to acquire compulsorily the interest of
the person who served the notice, and

4.1.b

as having served a notice to treat in respect of that interest on the date
that the Welsh Ministers direct.

4.2

The authority referred to in sub-paragraph (1) is—

4.2.a

the planning authority on which the purchase notice was served, or

4.2.b

if the Welsh Ministers modified the purchase notice under paragraph 2(7) by
substituting another local authority or statutory undertaker for the planning
authority, the other local authority or statutory undertaker.

4.3

If a purchase notice is sent to the Welsh Ministers under paragraph 1(6) and
they do not take any action in relation to it under paragraph 2 by the end of
the relevant period—

4.3.a

the purchase notice is to be treated as having been confirmed by them at the
end of the relevant period, and

4.3.b

the planning authority on which the purchase notice was served is to be
treated—

4.3.b.i

as being authorised under section 137 to acquire compulsorily the interest of
the person who served the notice, and

4.3.b.ii

as having served a notice to treat in respect of that interest at the end of
the relevant period.

4.4

Where a purchase notice is confirmed only in relation to part of the land to
which it relates, references in this paragraph to the owner’s interest are to
the owner’s interest in that part.

4.5

In sub-paragraph (3) the “ relevant period ” means whichever of the following
ends earlier—

4.5.a

9 months beginning with the day the purchase notice was served on the planning
authority;

4.5.b

6 months beginning with the day a copy of the notice was sent to the Welsh
Ministers under paragraph 1(6).

4.6

But the relevant period does not include any time when the Welsh Ministers
have before them both—

4.6.a

a copy of the purchase notice sent to them under paragraph 1(6), and

4.6.b

a notice of appeal under section 100 (appeal against refusal etc. of listed
building consent) or 127 (appeal against enforcement notice) relating to any
of the land to which the purchase notice relates.

4.7

A notice to treat which is treated as having been served by virtue of sub-
paragraph (1)(b) or (3)(b)(ii) may not be withdrawn under section 31 of the
Land Compensation Act 1961 (c. 33) .

4.8

In this paragraph references to the land to which a purchase notice relates
are to the listed building and associated land (if any) in respect of which
the notice is served.

##### Legal challenge to Welsh Ministers’ action in relation to purchase notice

5

5.1

If a decision of the Welsh Ministers to take any action in relation to a
purchase notice under paragraph 2 is quashed in proceedings under section 183,
the purchase notice is to be treated as cancelled, but the person who served
it may serve a further purchase notice.

5.2

For the purpose of determining whether the further purchase notice has been
served within the time specified in section 111(1), the decision to which the
notice relates is to be treated as having been made, or the order to which it
relates is to be treated as having taken effect, on the day the Welsh
Ministers’ decision was quashed.

##### Deduction of compensation payable under section 108 on acquisition

6

Where compensation is payable under section 108 (compensation where consent is
modified or revoked) for expenditure incurred in carrying out works to a
listed building, any compensation that becomes payable in respect of the
acquisition of an interest in the building and any associated land in
pursuance of a purchase notice must be reduced by the amount of the
compensation relating to the works.

##### Interpretation of Schedule

7

7.1

In this Schedule—

“ associated land ” (“ tir cysylltiedig ”)‍ and “ usable ” (“ defnyddiadwy ”)
have the meanings given by section 109(6);
“ statutory undertaker ” (“ ymgymerwr statudol ”) includes an electronic
communications code operator and a former public telecommunications operator .

7.2

In the definition of “statutory undertaker” in sub-paragraph (1)—

“ electronic communications code operator ” (“ gweithredwr cod cyfathrebu
electronig ”) has the meaning given by paragraph 1(1) of Schedule 17 to the
Communications Act 2003 (c. 21) ;
“ former public telecommunications operator ” (“ cyn-weithredwr telathrebu
cyhoeddus ”) has the meaning given to “former PTO” by paragraph 1(1) of
Schedule 17 to the Communications Act 2003.

            PROCEDURE FOR ORDERS TERMINATING LISTED BUILDING PARTNERSHIP
AGREEMENTS

(introduced by section 115(5))

##### ORDERS MADE BY PLANNING AUTHORITIES

###### Requirement for confirmation by Welsh Ministers

1

1.1

An order under section 115 made by a planning authority does not take effect
unless it is confirmed by the Welsh Ministers.

1.2

Where a planning authority submits an order to the Welsh Ministers for
confirmation, it must serve notice of the submission of the order on—

1.2.a

the other parties to the listed building partnership agreement,

1.2.b

any other person occupying the listed building, or the part of a listed
building, to which the agreement relates under a lease granted or extended for
a fixed term that has at least 2 years left to run, and

1.2.c

any other person the authority thinks will be affected by the order.

1.3

The notice must specify the period within which a person on whom it is served
may make a request in writing to the Welsh Ministers for an opportunity to
appear before and be heard by a person appointed by the Welsh Ministers.

1.4

If a person on whom the notice is served makes such a request within that
period, before confirming the order the Welsh Ministers must give such an
opportunity to that person and each planning authority that is a party to the
listed building partnership agreement.

1.5

The period specified under sub-paragraph (3) must be at least 28 days
beginning with the day after the day the notice is served.

1.6

The Welsh Ministers may confirm the order with or without modifications.

##### ORDERS MADE BY THE WELSH MINISTERS

###### Procedure to be followed before making order

2

2.1

Before making an order under section 115, the Welsh Ministers must serve
notice of the proposed order on—

2.1.a

the parties to the listed building partnership agreement (or if the Welsh
Ministers are a party to the agreement, the other parties to it),

2.1.b

any other person occupying the listed building, or the part of a listed
building, to which the agreement relates under a lease granted or extended for
a fixed term that has at least 2 years left to run, and

2.1.c

any other person the Welsh Ministers think will be affected by the order.

2.2

The notice must specify the period within which a person on whom it is served
may make a request in writing to the Welsh Ministers for an opportunity to
appear before and be heard by a person appointed by the Welsh Ministers.

2.3

If a person on whom the notice is served makes such a request within that
period, before making the order the Welsh Ministers must give such an
opportunity to that person and any planning authority that is a party to the
listed building partnership agreement.

2.4

The period specified under sub-paragraph (2) must be at least 28 days
beginning with the day after the day the notice is served.

            EFFECT OF SECTION 161 CEASING TO APPLY TO BUILDING

(introduced by section 161(5))

##### Introduction

1

This Schedule applies where a building ceases to be a building to which
section 161 applies.

##### Criminal liability

2

The fact that the building ceases to be a building to which section 161
applies does not affect the liability of any person to be prosecuted and
punished for an offence‍ under this Act committed while section 161 applied to
it.

##### Conservation area consent

3

Any proceedings on or arising out of an application for conservation area
consent relating to the building lapse; and any such consent ceases to have
effect.

##### Temporary stop notices

4

Any temporary stop notice relating to the building ceases to have effect.

##### Enforcement notices

5

5.1

Any enforcement notice relating to the building ceases to have effect.

5.2

Any proceedings on an appeal against such a notice lapse.

5.3

Despite sub-paragraph (1), section 132(1) to (6) (as applied by section 163)
continue to have effect in relation to—

5.3.a

any expenses incurred by a planning authority or the Welsh Ministers, or by an
owner or occupier, as mentioned in that section, and

5.3.b

any amounts paid on account of those expenses.

##### Injunctions

6

Any proceedings on an application for an injunction under section 135 (as
applied by section 163) relating to the building lapse.

            DETERMINATION OF APPEAL BY APPOINTED PERSON OR THE WELSH MINISTERS

(introduced by section 173(6))

##### Introduction

1

In this Schedule—

                                                                  “ appointed
person ” ( “person a benodir” ) means a person appointed by the Welsh
Ministers under section 173 to determine an appeal under section 100 or 127;
“ the planning authority ” ( “yr awdurdod cynllunio” ) means the planning
authority in whose area the building to which the appeal relates is situated.

##### Powers and duties of appointed person

2

2.1

An appointed person has the same powers and duties—

2.1.a

in relation to an appeal under section 100 as the Welsh Ministers have under
section 104;

2.1.b

in relation to an appeal under section 127 as the Welsh Ministers have under
section 128.

2.2

Sub-paragraph (3) applies where any enactment (other than this Schedule or
section 174)—

2.2.a

refers (or is to be read as referring) to the Welsh Ministers in a context
relating to or capable of relating to an appeal to which section 173 applies,
or

2.2.b

refers (or is to be read as referring) to anything done or authorised or
required to be done by, to or before the Welsh Ministers in connection with
any such appeal.

2.3

So far as the context permits, the enactment is to be read, in relation to an
appeal determined or to be determined by an appointed person, as if the
reference to the Welsh Ministers were or included a reference to an appointed
person.

##### Local inquiry, hearing or written representations

3

3.1

An appointed person may hold a local inquiry or a hearing in connection with
an appeal where a determination under section 174 provides for the appeal to
be considered in that way.

3.2

The Welsh Ministers or an appointed person may appoint an assessor to advise
the appointed person on any matters that arise—

3.2.a

at a local inquiry or hearing held by the appointed person in connection with
an appeal or in consequence of such an inquiry or hearing, or

3.2.b

in written representations made to the appointed person in connection with an
appeal or in consequence of such representations.

##### Replacement of appointed person

4

4.1

At any time before an appointed person has determined an appeal, the Welsh
Ministers may—

4.1.a

revoke the person’s appointment, and

4.1.b

appoint another person under section 173 to determine the appeal.

4.2

Where a new appointment is made, the consideration of the appeal, and any
inquiry or other hearing in connection with the appeal, must start afresh.

4.3

Sub-paragraph (2) does not require any person to be given an opportunity to—

4.3.a

make fresh representations, or

4.3.b

modify or withdraw any representations the person has already made.

##### Direction under section 173(3)(b) that appeal is to be determined by Welsh Ministers

5

5.1

This paragraph applies where the Welsh Ministers give a direction under
section 173(3)(b) that an appeal which would otherwise be determined by an
appointed person is instead to be determined by them.

5.2

The direction must state the reasons for which it is given and must be served
on—

5.2.a

the person, if any, appointed to determine the appeal,

5.2.b

the appellant,

5.2.c

the planning authority, and

5.2.d

in the case of an appeal under section 100, any person who made
representations relating to the subject matter of the appeal which regulations
under section 91(4) required the planning authority to take into account.

5.3

The Welsh Ministers must give the persons mentioned in sub-paragraph (2)(b) to
(d) an opportunity to make further representations if the reasons for the
direction raise matters about which any of those persons have not made
representations.

5.4

Except as provided by sub-paragraph (3), the Welsh Ministers need not give any
person an opportunity to—

5.4.a

appear before and be heard by a person appointed by them,

5.4.b

make fresh representations, or

5.4.c

modify or withdraw any representations the person has already made.

5.5

In determining the appeal the Welsh Ministers may take into account any report
made to them by a person previously appointed to determine it.

5.6

Subject to this paragraph, the provisions of this Act that are relevant to the
appeal apply to it as if this Schedule had never applied.

##### Revocation of direction under section 173(3)(b)

6

6.1

The Welsh Ministers may by a further direction revoke a direction under
section 173(3)(b) at any time before the determination of the appeal.

6.2

The further direction must state the reasons for which it is given and must be
served on the persons on whom paragraph 5(2) required the direction under
section 173(3)(b) to be served.

6.3

Where a further direction is given under this paragraph, section 173 and this
Schedule apply as if no direction had been given under paragraph 5 (and
accordingly the Welsh Ministers must appoint a person under that section to
determine the appeal).

6.4

But anything done by or on behalf of the Welsh Ministers in connection with
the appeal which might have been done by the appointed person (including any
arrangements made for the holding of a hearing or local inquiry) is, unless
the appointed person directs otherwise, to be treated as having been done by
the appointed person.

##### Supplementary provisions

7

7.1

It is not a ground of application to the High Court under section 183, or of
appeal to the High Court under section 184, that an appeal ought to have been
determined by the Welsh Ministers instead of an appointed person, unless the
appellant or the planning authority challenges the appointed person’s power to
determine the appeal before the decision on the appeal is given.

7.2

Where an appointed person is a member of the staff of the Welsh Government,
the person’s functions of determining an appeal and doing anything in
connection with it are to be treated for the purposes of the  Public Services
Ombudsman (Wales) Act 2019 (anaw 3)  as functions of the Welsh Government.

MINOR AND CONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS AND REPEALS

(introduced by section 211(1))

##### Settled Land Act 1925 (c. 18)

1

In Part 2 of Schedule 3 to the Settled Land Act 1925, after paragraph (vi)
insert—

1.vii)

Works specified by the Welsh Ministers as being required for properly
maintaining a listed building (within the meaning given by section 76 of the
Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023) on the settled land.

##### Historic Buildings and Ancient Monuments Act 1953 (c. 49)

2

The Historic Buildings and Ancient Monuments Act 1953 is amended as follows.

3

Omit section 4.

4

In section 4A—

4.a

in the heading, for “section 4” substitute  “section 3A” ;

4.b

in subsection (1)—

4.b.i

omit “or 4”;

4.b.ii

omit “or (as the case may be) by the Secretary of State”;

4.c

in subsections (3), (4) and (8), omit “or (as the case may be) by the
Secretary of State”.

5

5.1

In section 5, after subsection (5) insert—

5.1.6

In this section references to a building do not include a building situated
wholly or mainly in Wales.

5.2

This paragraph does not apply in relation to property that was acquired or
accepted before it comes into force.

6

Omit section 6.

7

In section 8, after subsection (7) insert—

7.8

In this section references to a building do not include a building situated
wholly or mainly in Wales.

##### Land Powers (Defence) Act 1958 (c. 30)

8

In section 6(4)(b) of the Land Powers (Defence) Act 1958, after “the Ancient
Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979” insert  “or section 3 of the
Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

##### Public Health Act 1961 (c. 64)

9

In the table in Schedule 4 to the Public Health Act 1961, after the entry
relating to section 1 of the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation
Areas) Act 1990 insert—

A building which is included in the schedule of monuments maintained under
section 3 of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023 or the list of
buildings maintained under section 76 of that Act, except— a building owned by
railway, canal, dock, harbour or inland navigation undertakers, a building
owned by a holder of a licence under section 6 of the  Electricity Act 1989
(c. 29) , a building owned by a gas transporter (within the meaning given by
section 7(1) of the  Gas Act 1986 (c. 44) ), or a building forming part of an
aerodrome. The Welsh Ministers.

##### The Harbours Act 1964 (c. 40)

9A

In Schedule 3 to the Harbours Act 1964, in paragraph 1, in the definition of
“sensitive area”, in paragraph (h), at the end insert  “or section 3 of the
Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

##### Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 (c. 56)

10

In section 1(4) of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965—

10.a

for “or section 52 of the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas)
Act 1990” substitute  “, section 52 of the Planning (Listed Buildings and
Conservation Areas) Act 1990 or section 136 of the Historic Environment
(Wales) Act 2023,” ;

10.b

after “section 52(2) of the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas)
Act 1990” insert  “or section 136(4) of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act
2023” .

##### Mines (Working Facilities and Support) Act 1966 (c. 4)

11

In section 7 of the Mines (Working Facilities and Support) Act 1966, after
subsection (8) insert—

11.9

For the purposes of this section, where any building or work is a monument of
special historic interest within the meaning of Part 2 of the Historic
Environment (Wales) Act 2023 and is, in pursuance of that Part, under the
guardianship of the Welsh Ministers or a local authority, the Welsh Ministers
or the local authority, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be persons
entitled to make an application under this section.

##### Civic Amenities Act 1967 (c. 69)

12

Omit section 4 of the Civic Amenities Act 1967.

##### Redundant Churches and other Religious Buildings Act 1969 (c. 22)

13

The Redundant Churches and other Religious Buildings Act 1969 is amended as
follows.

14

In section 4—

14.a

in subsection (2)(b), after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

14.a.ia

the Welsh Ministers,

;

14.b

in subsection (9), after “in relation to” insert  “the Secretary of State and”
;

14.c

after subsection (9) insert—

14.c.9A

In relation to the Welsh Ministers—

14.c.9A.a

this section only applies to any premises falling within subsection (1) if
they are situated in Wales, and

14.c.9A.b

references in this section to land are references only to land situated in
Wales.

;

14.d

in subsection (10)—

14.d.i

in paragraph (a), after “the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation
Areas) Act 1990” insert  “or the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023” ;

14.d.ii

in paragraph (b), after “the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act
1979” insert  “or the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

15

In section 5(1), after “Secretary of State,”, in both places, insert  “the
Welsh Ministers,” .

##### Local Government Act 1972 (c. 70)

16

In section 131(2) of the Local Government Act 1972, after paragraph (m)
insert—

and

16.n

Part 2 of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023.

##### Land Compensation Act 1973 (c. 26)

17

In section 33D(4)(d) of the Land Compensation Act 1973, after “section 48 of
the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990” insert  “or
section 138 of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

##### Estate Agents Act 1979 (c. 38)

18

In section 1(2)(e) of the Estate Agents Act 1979, after “the Planning (Listed
Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990,” insert  “Parts 3 to 5 of the
Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023,” .

##### Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979 (c. 46)

19

The Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979 is amended as follows.

20

In section 1—

20.a

in subsection (3), for “subsection” substitute  “subsections (3A) and” ;

20.b

after subsection (3) insert—

20.b.3A

The power of the Secretary of State under subsection (3) above to include any
monument in the Schedule does not apply to a monument situated in Wales (and
in this subsection “Wales has the meaning given by section 158(1) of the
Government of Wales Act 2006).

20.c

omit subsection (5A);

20.d

for subsection (6A) substitute—

20.d.6A

As soon as may be after—

20.d.6A.a

including any monument in England in the Schedule under subsection (3) above;

20.d.6A.b

amending the entry in the Schedule relating to any such monument; or

20.d.6A.c

excluding the entry in the Schedule relating to any such monument;

the Secretary of State shall inform the Commission of the action taken and, in
a case falling within paragraph (a) or (b), shall also send to the Commission
a copy of the entry or (as the case may be) of the amended entry in the
Schedule relating to that monument.

;

20.e

omit subsections (6B) and (6C);

20.f

in subsection (9) omit “and Wales”.

21

Omit sections 1AA to 1AE.

22

In section 2—

22.a

omit subsections (3A) and (3B);

22.b

in subsection (5)—

22.b.i

in paragraph (a), omit “(in a case where the monument in question is situated
in England), or”;

22.b.ii

omit paragraph (b);

22.c

omit subsections (5A) and (5B);

22.d

omit subsection (6A);

22.e

in subsection (8), omit “which have been executed in relation to a scheduled
monument situated in England or land in, on or under which there is such a
scheduled monument”;

22.f

omit subsection (8A).

23

In section 4(3), omit “Where a direction would (if given) affect a monument
situated in England,”.

24

In section 6, omit subsection (5).

25

In section 7(1), omit “the Secretary of State or (where the monument in
question is situated in England)”.

26

In section 8—

26.a

in subsection (2A), omit paragraph (c);

26.b

in subsection (6), omit “and Wales”.

27

In section 9(1), omit “the Secretary of State or (where the monument in
question is situated in England)”.

28

Omit sections 9ZA and 9ZB and the italic heading before section 9ZA.

29

Omit sections 9ZC to 9ZH and the italic heading before section 9ZC.

30

Omit sections 9ZI to 9ZL and the italic heading before section 9ZI.

31

Omit section 9ZM and the italic heading before it.

32

In section 26, omit subsection (4).

33

In section 27(2), for “section 1AD, 7, 9 or 9ZL” substitute  “section 7 or 9”
.

34

In section 28—

34.a

in subsection (1), omit “situated in England”;

34.b

omit subsection (1A).

35

In section 33—

35.a

after subsection (1) insert—

35.a.1A

An order under subsection (1) may not designate an area in Wales.

;

35.b

in subsection (5), omit “and Wales”.

36

In section 35(5), omit paragraph (aa).

37

In section 38—

37.a

in subsection (3)(b), omit “and Wales”;

37.b

in subsection (9)(b), omit “and Wales”.

38

Omit section 41A and the italic heading before it.

39

In section 42—

39.a

in subsection (1), omit “or of the Secretary of State (in any other case)”;

39.b

in subsection (3), omit “or of the Secretary of State (in any other case)”;

39.c

in subsection (4), omit “the Secretary of State or”;

39.d

in subsection (5)(a), omit “the Secretary of State or”;

39.e

in subsection (7), omit “relating to a protected place situated in England”;

39.f

omit subsection (8).

40

In section 44(2), in the second sentence, omit the words from “, or in
relation to” to the end.

41

In section 45—

41.a

omit subsection (1);

41.b

in subsection (3), omit “The Secretary of State or”.

42

In section 46(3), omit “9ZF, 9ZJ,”.

43

In section 50, omit subsection (3A).

44

In section 51(3), omit “1AD, 9ZL,”.

45

In section 53—

45.a

in subsection (2), for “, or of Wales; and, subject to subsection (2B),”
substitute  “and” ;

45.b

omit subsections (2A) and (2B).

46

In section 55, omit subsection (3A).

47

In section 56—

47.a

in subsection (1), omit paragraph (ca) and the “or” after it;

47.b

omit subsection (1A);

47.c

omit subsection (3).

48

In section 60—

48.a

omit subsection (1A);

48.b

omit subsections (3), (4) and (5).

49

In section 61—

49.a

in subsection (1)—

49.a.i

omit the definitions of “address”, “electronic communication” and “interim
protection”;

49.a.ii

in the definition of “local authority”, omit paragraph (aa);

49.a.iii

in the definition of “owner”, omit “sections 9ZA and 9ZB and”;

49.a.iv

in the definition of “scheduled monument consent”, omit “and (3B)”;

49.b

omit subsection (2B);

49.c

in subsection (6), omit “(other than in section 9ZA)”;

49.d

in subsection (7), omit paragraph (d) and the “and” before it;

49.e

omit subsection (7A);

49.f

in subsection (12), in paragraph (b), at the end insert  “, except any
monument situated wholly or mainly in Wales” .

50

Omit Schedules A1 and A2.

51

In Schedule 1—

51.a

in paragraph 1, omit sub-paragraph (3);

51.b

in paragraph 2(4), omit “or of regulations made by the Welsh Ministers under
it”;

51.c

omit paragraph 2B;

51.d

in paragraph 3, omit sub-paragraph (5);

51.e

omit paragraph 3A;

51.f

in paragraph 4(1), omit “and Wales”;

51.g

in paragraph 5(1A), omit “Where the monument in question is situated in
England,”.

##### Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980 (c. 65)

52

In section 148(3) of the Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980, after
“(which relates to the compilation or approval by the Secretary of State of
lists of buildings of special architectural or historic interest)” insert  “,
under section 76 of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023 (which makes
similar provision for Wales),” .

##### Highways Act 1980 (c. 66)

53

The Highways Act 1980 is amended as follows.

54

In section 79(15)—

54.a

in paragraph (a), after “local highway authority” insert  “in England” ;

54.b

after that paragraph insert—

54.b.aa

authorises the service by a local highway authority in Wales of a notice under
this section with respect to any wall forming part of a monument of special
historic interest (within the meaning of Part 2 of the Historic Environment
(Wales) Act 2023) or other object of archaeological interest, except with the
consent of the Welsh Ministers; or

55

In section 105ZA(1), in paragraph (g) of the definition of “sensitive area”,
after “the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979” insert  “or
the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

##### New Towns Act 1981 (c. 64)

56

In section 8 of the New Towns Act 1981, at the end insert  “or under section
76 of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023 (which makes similar provision
for Wales)” .

##### Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (c. 67)

57

In section 31(1)(a) of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981, after “Planning
(Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990” insert  “or Part 3 of the
Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

##### National Heritage Act 1983 (c. 47)

58

In Schedule 4 to the National Heritage Act 1983—

58.a

omit paragraph 4;

58.b

omit paragraph 8;

58.c

omit paragraph 31.

##### Inheritance Tax Act 1984 (c. 51)

59

In section 230(3)(c) of the Inheritance Tax Act 1984, after “the Ancient
Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979” insert  “, or of which the Welsh
Ministers are guardians under Part 2 of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act
2023” .

##### Building Act 1984 (c. 55)

60

The Building Act 1984 is amended as follows.

61

In section 1A(2)—

61.a

in paragraph (a), after “(see section 1(5) of that Act)” insert  “or the
Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023 (see section 76 of that Act)” ;

61.b

in paragraph (b), for “that Act” substitute  “the Planning (Listed Buildings
and Conservation Areas) Act 1990 or under section 158 of the Historic
Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

62

In section 20(1), after “the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation
Areas) Act 1990” insert  “, Part 3 of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act
2023” .

63

In section 77(3), after “subject to” insert  “section 79A and to” .

64

In section 79(5), after “subject to” insert  “section 79A and to” .

65

After section 79 insert—

######### Wales: exercise of powers under sections 77 and 79 in relation to listed buildings, buildings in conservation areas etc.

65.79A

65.79A.1

Before taking any steps mentioned in subsection (3) in relation to a listed
building, a local authority in Wales must—

65.79A.1.a

if it is the planning authority for the area in which the building is
situated, consider whether it should instead exercise its powers under
sections 137 and 138 of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023 (compulsory
acquisition and repairs notices), and

65.79A.1.b

in any case, consider whether it should instead exercise its powers under
section 144 of that Act (urgent preservation works).

65.79A.2

Before taking any steps mentioned in subsection (3) in relation to—

65.79A.2.a

a building in relation to which interim protection or temporary listing has
effect under Chapter 1 of Part 3 of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023,
or

65.79A.2.b

a building‍ that is subject to a direction under section 164 of that Act
(urgent works to preserve buildings in conservation areas),

a local authority in Wales must consider whether it should instead exercise
its powers under section 144 of that Act.

65.79A.3

The steps referred to in subsections (1) and (2) are steps with a view to—

65.79A.3.a

obtaining an order under section 77(1)(a), or

65.79A.3.b

serving a notice under section 79(1).

65.79A.4

In subsection (1), “listed building and “planning authority have the same
meanings as in the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023.

##### Housing Act 1985 (c. 68)

66

The Housing Act 1985 is amended as follows.

67

In section 303, after “section 1 of the Planning (Listed Buildings and
Conservation Areas) Act 1990” insert  “or section 76 of the Historic
Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

68

In section 305—

68.a

in subsection (1), after “Where a building” insert  “in England” ;

68.b

after subsection (1) insert—

68.b.1A

Where a building in Wales to which a compulsory purchase order under section
290 applies becomes a listed building at any time after the making of the
order, the authority making the order may, within the period of three months
beginning with the date on which the building becomes a listed building, apply
to the Welsh Ministers (and only to them) for their consent under section 89
of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023 to the demolition of the
building.

;

68.c

in subsection (2), after “Secretary of State gives” insert  “, or (as the case
may be) the Welsh Ministers give,” .

69

In section 306—

69.a

in subsection (1), after “applies to a building” insert  “in England” ;

69.b

after subsection (1) insert—

69.b.1A

Where section 291 applies to a building in Wales purchased by the local
housing authority by agreement and the building becomes a listed building, the
authority may, within the period of three months beginning with the date on
which the building becomes a listed building, apply to the Welsh Ministers
(and only to them) for their consent under section 89 of the Historic
Environment (Wales) Act 2023 to the demolition of the building.

##### Protection of Military Remains Act 1986 (c. 35)

70

In section 9(1) of the Protection of Military Remains Act 1986, in the
definition of “Crown land”, after “the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological
Areas Act 1979” insert  “except that in relation to land in Wales, it has the
meaning given in section 207 of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

##### Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (c. 8)

71

The Town and Country Planning Act 1990 is amended as follows.

72

In section 70(3), as it has effect before section 5(8) of the  Housing and
Planning Act 2016 (c. 22)  comes into force, after “Planning (Listed Buildings
and Conservation Areas) Act 1990” insert  “, to section 160 of the Historic
Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

73

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

74

In section 137—

74.a

in subsection (6)—

74.a.i

in the words before paragraph (a), after “section 48 of the Planning (Listed
Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990” insert  “or section 138 of the
Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023” ;

74.a.ii

in paragraph (b), for “that Act” substitute  “the Planning (Listed Buildings
and Conservation Areas) Act 1990 or section 137 of the Historic Environment
(Wales) Act 2023” ;

74.b

in subsection (7)(b)(i)—

74.b.i

after “Secretary of State” insert  “or the Welsh Ministers” ;

74.b.ii

after “he decides” insert  “or they decide” .

75

In section 143(4), after “Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas)
Act 1990” insert  “or section 100 or 127 of the Historic Environment (Wales)
Act 2023” .

76

In section 157(1)(b)—

76.a

after “section 47 of the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas)
Act 1990” insert  “or section 137 of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act
2023” ;

76.b

after “section 50 of that Act of 1990” insert  “or section 140 of that Act of
2023” .

77

In section 232(1), after “Chapter V of Part 1 of the Planning (Listed
Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990” insert  “or Chapter 5 of Part 3 of
the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

78

In section 235(6), in the definition of “alternative enactment”, after
“Chapter V of Part 1 of the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas)
Act 1990” insert  “or Chapter 5 of Part 3 of the Historic Environment (Wales)
Act 2023” .

79

In section 240(3), in the definition of “relevant acquisition or
appropriation”, after “Chapter V of Part 1 of the Planning (Listed Buildings
and Conservation Areas) Act 1990” insert  “or Chapter 5 of Part 3 of the
Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

80

In section 241(1), after “Chapter V of Part 1 of the Planning (Listed
Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990” insert  “or Chapter 5 of Part 3 of
the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

81

In section 243(3)(b), after “Chapter V of Part 1 of the Planning (Listed
Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990” insert  “or Chapter 5 of Part 3 of
the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

82

In section 246(1)(a), after “section 52 of the Planning (Listed Buildings and
Conservation Areas) Act 1990” insert  “or section 136 of the Historic
Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

83

In section 271(1), after “Chapter V of Part 1 of the Planning (Listed
Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990” insert  “or Chapter 5 of Part 3 of
the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

84

In section 272(1), after “Chapter V of Part 1 of the Planning (Listed
Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990” insert  “or Chapter 5 of Part 3 of
the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

85

In section 275—

85.a

in subsection (1)(a), after “Chapter V of Part 1 of the Planning (Listed
Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990” insert  “or Chapter 5 of Part 3 of
the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023” ;

85.b

in subsection (2)(a), for “that Chapter” substitute  “either of those
Chapters” ;

85.c

in subsection (3), after “Chapter V of Part 1 of the Planning (Listed
Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990” insert  “or Chapter 5 of Part 3 of
the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

86

In section 277(2)(a), after “Chapter V of Part 1 of the Planning (Listed
Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990” insert  “or Chapter 5 of Part 3 of
the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

87

In section 303, after subsection (1) insert—

87.1ZZA

References in subsection (1) to functions of a local planning authority do
not, in the case of a local planning authority in Wales, include functions
under the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023 (as to which, see section 167
of that Act).

88

In section 303ZA(5)(b), which is inserted by section 200 of the  Planning Act
2008 (c. 29) , after “the Welsh Ministers” insert  “in relation to appeals
under any provision made by or under this Act as it applies” .

89

In section 306(1)(a), after “Chapter V of Part 1 of the Planning (Listed
Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990” insert  “or Chapter 5 of Part 3 of
the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

90

Before section 315 (but after the italic heading before that section) insert—

######### Wales: duties relating to listed buildings and features of architectural or historic interest

90.314A

90.314A.1

In considering whether to grant planning permission for development which
affects a listed building or its setting, the Welsh Ministers or a local
planning authority in Wales must have special regard to the desirability of
preserving—

90.314A.1.a

the listed building,

90.314A.1.b

the setting of the building, or

90.314A.1.c

any features of special architectural or historic interest the building
possesses.

90.314A.2

In exercising the powers conferred by sections 232, 233 and 235(1)
(appropriation, disposal and development of land held for planning purposes),
a relevant local authority must have regard to the desirability of preserving
features of special architectural or historic interest, and in particular
listed buildings.

90.314A.3

In subsection (2), “ relevant local authority ” means—

90.314A.3.a

a county council or county borough council in Wales;

90.314A.3.b

a National Park authority in Wales;

90.314A.3.c

a joint planning board constituted under section 2(1B).

90.314A.4

In this section, “ listed building ” means—

90.314A.4.a

a listed building (within the meaning given by section 76 of the Historic
Environment (Wales) Act 2023) situated in Wales, or

90.314A.4.b

a listed building (within the meaning given by section 1 of the Planning
(Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990) situated in England.

91

In section 336(1)—

91.a

in the definition of “conservation area”, after “section 69 of the Planning
(Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990” insert  “or section 158 of
the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023” ;

91.b

in the definition of “the planning Acts”, after “Planning (Listed Buildings
and Conservation Areas) Act 1990,” insert  “Parts 3 to 5 of the Historic
Environment (Wales) Act 2023 (and Part 7 of that Act as it applies for the
purposes of those Parts)” .

92

In Schedule 4B, in paragraph 8(5), for “has the same meaning as in the
Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990” substitute—

means—

92.a

a listed building (within the meaning given by section 1 of the Planning
(Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990) situated in England, or

92.b

a listed building (within the meaning given by section 76 of the Historic
Environment (Wales) Act 2023) situated in Wales.

##### Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990 (c. 9)

93

The Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990 is amended as
follows.

94

In section 1—

94.a

in subsection (1), after “buildings of special architectural or historic
interest” insert  “in England” ;

94.b

omit subsection (2);

94.c

in subsection (4), omit “in relation to buildings which are situated in
England”;

94.d

omit subsection (4A);

94.e

in subsection (5A), omit “situated in England”.

95

In section 2—

95.a

in subsection (1)—

95.a.i

in the words before paragraph (a), omit “, Welsh county, county borough,”;

95.a.ii

after paragraph (a), insert  “and” ;

95.a.iii

omit paragraph (c) and the “and” before it;

95.b

in subsection (3), in the words before paragraph (a)—

95.b.i

omit “situated in England”;

95.b.ii

for “any such building” substitute  “any building” ;

95.c

omit subsections (3A) and (3B).

96

Omit sections 2A to 2D.

97

In section 3—

97.a

in the heading, omit “in England”;

97.b

in subsection (1), for “If it appears to a local planning authority in England
who are not a county planning authority” substitute  “If it appears to a local
planning authority, other than a county planning authority,” ;

97.c

in subsections (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6), omit “under this section”.

98

Omit section 3A.

99

In section 4(2), for “sections 3 and 3A,” substitute  “section 3,” .

100

In section 5—

100.a

at the beginning of subsection (1), omit “(1)”;

100.b

omit subsection (2).

101

In section 6—

101.a

in the heading, omit “: England”;

101.b

in subsection (A1), omit “situated in England”.

102

Omit section 6A.

103

In section 8—

103.a

in subsection (4)—

103.a.i

in paragraph (a), omit “in relation to England,”;

103.a.ii

omit paragraph (b);

103.b

in subsection (6), omit paragraph (b) and the “and” before it.

104

In section 9, omit subsection (3A).

105

In section 12, omit subsection (4B).

106

In section 15(3), omit “in England”.

106A

In section 17(4), omit “in relation to England”.

107

In section 20—

107.a

in subsection (4), omit “in relation to England”;

107.b

omit subsection (5).

108

In section 21—

108.a

in subsection (4), omit “interim protection has effect or”;

108.b

omit subsections (4A) and (4B);

108.c

omit subsection (9).

109

In section 22—

109.a

omit subsection (2B);

109.b

in subsection (3), for “an appeal under section 20” substitute  “the appeal” .

110

In section 26A(1), omit “, situated in England”.

111

In section 26C(1), omit “in England”.

112

In section 26D(1), omit “for any area in England”.

113

In section 26H(1), omit “in England”.

114

Omit sections 26L and 26M and the italic heading before section 26L.

115

Omit section 28B.

116

Omit section 29.

116A

In section 30—

116A.a

in subsection (1)—

116A.a.i

omit paragraph (c);

116A.a.ii

in the words after the paragraphs, for “those sections” substitute  “section
28” ;

116A.b

in subsection (2), omit “or 29”.

117

In section 31—

117.a

in subsection (2), for “28, 28B, 29, 44AC and 44D” substitute  “28 and 44AC” ;

117.b

in subsection (4), for “sections 28 and 29” substitute  “section 28” .

118

In section 32(1), in the words after paragraph (b), omit “, Welsh county,
county borough,”.

119

In section 34(2)—

119.a

in paragraph (c), omit “in England”;

119.b

omit paragraph (cc).

120

In section 40, omit subsection (2B).

121

In section 41—

121.a

in subsection (4)—

121.a.i

omit “section 40(2) would otherwise apply and”;

121.a.ii

omit “of this section”;

121.b

in subsection (8), omit “in England”.

122

In section 44A(4), omit “, as respects England,”.

122A

In section 44AA(1) and in the heading before it, omit “in England” in both
places it occurs.

122B

In the heading to section 44AB, omit “in England”.

122C

In the heading to section 44AC, omit “in England”.

123

Omit sections 44B to 44D.

124

In section 46—

124.za

in subsection (1A), omit “in England”;

124.a

in subsection (2)(b), omit “if the land is situated in England,”;

124.b

in subsection (5), omit “in England”.

125

In section 47—

125.a

in subsection (3)(a), omit “situated in England”;

125.b

in subsection (7), in the definition of “the appropriate authority,” in
paragraph (a), omit “, county borough”.

126

In section 48(4), omit “situated in England”.

127

In section 49—

127.a

in the heading, after “listed building” insert  “in England or Wales” ;

127.b

the existing provision becomes subsection (1);

127.c

after that subsection insert—

127.c.2

In subsection (1)—

127.c.2.a

the reference to a building which was listed includes a building in Wales
which was included in the list maintained under section 76 of the Historic
Environment (Wales) Act 2023;

127.c.2.b

in relation to such a building—

127.c.2.b.i

the reference to section 50 of this Act is to be read as a reference to
section 140 of that Act;

127.c.2.b.ii

the reference to listed building consent is a reference to consent under
section 89 of that Act.

128

In section 52(1)—

128.a

in the words before paragraph (a)—

128.a.i

for “, county borough,” substitute  “in England,” ;

128.a.ii

after “joint planning board for an area” insert  “in England” ;

128.b

in paragraph (a), after “building” insert  “situated wholly or mainly in
England” .

129

In section 53(3), omit “if they relate to property situated in England”.

130

In section 54—

130.a

in subsection (2)—

130.a.i

in paragraph (a), omit “if the building is in England,”;

130.a.ii

omit paragraph (b) and the “or” before it;

130.b

in subsection (4), omit “, in the case of a building in England,”;

130.c

omit subsection (4A);

130.d

in subsection (5), omit “, in the case of works authorised under subsection
(2)(a),”;

130.e

omit subsection (5A);

130.f

in subsection (6), omit “or (5A)”.

131

In section 55, omit subsections (5A) to (5G).

132

In section 57(7)—

132.a

in paragraph (a), for “, county borough,” substitute  “in England,” ;

132.b

in paragraph (b), after “principal Act” insert  “for an area in England” .

133

In section 60(2), omit “, 3A”.

134

In section 61(2), for “sections 2B, 3, 3A,” substitute  “sections 3,” .

135

In section 62(2), omit paragraph (za).

136

In section 66, after subsection (4) insert—

136.5

In this section, “listed building includes a listed building (within the
meaning given by section 76 of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023)
situated in Wales.

137

In section 70—

137.a

in subsection (5)(b), omit “it affects an area in England and”;

137.b

in subsection (6)(b), omit “if it affects an area in England,”.

138

In section 74—

138.a

omit subsections (1), (1A) and (2);

138.b

in subsection (2A), omit “in England”;

138.c

omit subsections (3) and (4).

139

In section 75—

139.a

omit subsection (6);

139.b

omit subsection (10);

139.c

in subsection (11), omit “under section 9 or 43 or”.

140

In section 76(2), omit “in respect of a building in England”.

141

In section 77—

141.a

in subsection (1), omit “situated in England”;

141.b

omit subsection (2);

141.c

in subsection (3), omit “or (2)”;

141.d

in subsection (4), omit “or, as the case may be, the Secretary of State”;

141.e

omit subsection (6).

142

In section 79—

142.a

in subsection (1), omit “, or the Secretary of State and one or more local
authorities in Wales,”;

142.b

in subsection (3), omit paragraph (aa).

143

In section 80—

143.a

in subsection (1)(b), omit “in England”;

143.b

omit subsection (2);

143.c

in subsection (3), omit “or, as the case may be, the Secretary of State” in
both places;

143.d

in subsection (5), omit “or the Secretary of State”.

144

In section 81, after ““local planning authority”” insert  “means a local
planning authority for an area in England and” .

145

In section 82—

145.a

in subsection (1)—

145.a.i

omit “, (2)”;

145.a.ii

omit “to 2D,”;

145.b

in subsection (3)—

145.b.i

omit “2B, 2C,”;

145.b.ii

omit “28B, 29,”;

145.b.iii

omit “, 1A”.

146

In section 82A(2), omit paragraph (fa).

147

In section 86(2)—

147.a

in paragraph (a), omit “if the property is situated in England, then”;

147.b

in paragraph (b), omit “in any case,”.

147A

Omit section 86(3).

148

In section 88—

148.za

in subsection (3ZA), omit “in England”;

148.a

omit subsection (3A);

148.b

in subsection (4), for “, 28B, 29, 44AC or 44D” substitute  “or 44AC” .

149

In section 88B, omit subsection (1A).

150

In section 88D—

150.a

in the heading, omit “: England”;

150.b

in subsection (7), in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c), omit “in England”.

151

Omit section 88E.

152

In section 89—

152.a

in subsection (1)—

152.a.i

omit the entry for sections 319ZA to 319ZD;

152.a.ii

in the entry for section 322, omit “: England”;

152.a.iii

omit the entry for section 322C;

152.a.iv

in the entry for section 323, omit “: England”;

152.a.v

omit the entry for section 323A;

152.b

in subsection (1A), omit “In the case of a building situated in England,”.

153

In section 90—

153.a

in subsection (5), after “council of a county” insert  “in England” ;

153.b

in subsection (6)(b), for “29” substitute  “28A” ;

153.c

in subsection (7)(a), for “sections 28 or 29” substitute  “section 28” .

154

In section 91—

154.a

in subsection (1)—

154.a.i

in the definition of “building preservation notice”, for “sections 3(1) and
3A(1)” substitute  “section 3(1);

154.a.ii

omit the definition of “interim protection”;

154.b

in subsection (2), in the words after the list of expressions, omit “, 26L or
26M”.

154A

In section 92(2)(b), for “29” substitute  “28A” .

155

In section 93—

155.a

in subsection (1), omit “in relation to England and the Welsh Ministers may
make regulations under this Act in relation to Wales”;

155.b

in subsection (3)—

155.b.i

omit “, other than regulations under section 2A, 26M or 56A,”;

155.b.ii

omit “(in the case of regulations made by the Secretary of State) or the
National Assembly for Wales (in the case of regulations made by the Welsh
Ministers)”;

155.c

omit subsection (3A);

155.d

in subsection (4)—

155.d.i

omit “55(5B),”;

155.d.ii

omit “, 88E”;

155.e

in subsection (5)—

155.e.i

omit “55(5B),”;

155.e.ii

omit “(in the case of an order made by the Secretary of State) or the National
Assembly for Wales (in the case of an order made by the Welsh Ministers)”;

155.f

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

156

In Schedule 1, in paragraph 2—

156.a

in sub-paragraph (3), omit “situated in England”;

156.b

omit sub-paragraph (4).

157

Omit Schedules 1A and 1B.

158

In Schedule 2—

158.a

in paragraph 1—

158.a.i

after sub-paragraph (a) insert  “or” ;

158.a.ii

omit sub-paragraphs (c) and (d);

158.b

in paragraph 2, for “, 44AB or 44C” substitute  “or 44AB” ;

158.c

omit paragraph 5.

159

In Schedule 3—

159.a

in paragraph 2—

159.a.i

omit sub-paragraph (4B);

159.a.ii

omit sub-paragraph (10);

159.b

in paragraph 3—

159.b.i

omit sub-paragraphs (4C) and (4D);

159.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (5), omit “or (4D)”;

159.c

in paragraph 6—

159.c.i

omit sub-paragraph (1B);

159.c.ii

in sub-paragraph (2)(a), omit “or this paragraph”;

159.c.iii

in sub-paragraph (4), omit “in England”;

159.c.iv

omit sub-paragraph (4A);

159.c.v

in sub-paragraph (5), for “inquiry held by virtue of this paragraph”
substitute  “such inquiry” ;

159.c.vi

in sub-paragraph (8), omit “in England”;

159.d

in paragraph 7, omit sub-paragraph (3);

159.e

omit paragraph 8 and the italic heading before it.

160

In Schedule 4—

160.a

in paragraph 1—

160.a.i

at the beginning of sub-paragraph (1), omit “(1)”;

160.a.ii

omit sub-paragraph (2);

160.b

in paragraph 7(1)—

160.b.i

omit “3A,”;

160.b.ii

omit “44D,”.

##### Planning and Compensation Act 1991 (c. 34)

161

 The Planning and Compensation Act 1991 is amended as follows.

 161A

In Schedule 6, omit paragraph 43.

161B

 In Schedule 18—

161B.a

omit the entry relating to section 29 of the Planning (Listed Buildings and
Conservation Areas) Act 1990;

161B.b

after the entry relating to section 29(5) of the Land Drainage Act 1991
insert—

Section 8 of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023 Date interim protection
takes effect Section 21 of that Act Date scheduled monument consent is refused
or granted subject to conditions Section 24 of that Act Date works ceased to
be authorised Section 28 of that Act Date notice of proposed termination is
served Section 34 of that Act Date temporary stop notice takes effect Section
70 of that Act Date damage is caused Section 80 of that Act Date interim
protection takes effect Section 86 of that Act Date temporary listing notice
is served Section 108 of that Act Date modification or revocation of consent
takes effect Section 116 of that Act Date termination of agreement or
provision takes effect Section 122 of that Act Date temporary stop notice
takes effect Section 155(4) of that Act Date damage is caused

##### Coal Mining Subsidence Act 1991 (c. 45)

162

In section 19 of the Coal Mining Subsidence Act 1991, after subsection (1)
insert—

162.1A

This section also applies where any property in Wales which—

162.1A.a

is a scheduled monument within the meaning given by section 3 of the Historic
Environment (Wales) Act 2023,

162.1A.b

has been notified to the Corporation by the Secretary of State as a monument
of special historic interest, within the meaning given by section 75(6) of
that Act, for the time being under the guardianship of the Welsh Ministers, or

162.1A.c

is a listed building within the meaning given by section 76 of that Act, and
is not of a description specified in an order made by the Secretary of State,

is affected by subsidence damage and the character of the property as one of
historic, architectural, archaeological or other special interest is or may be
affected by that damage.

##### Land Drainage Act 1991 (c. 59)

163

In section 67(3) of the Land Drainage Act 1991, after “the Ancient Monuments
and Archaeological Areas Act 1979” insert  “or Part 2 of the Historic
Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

##### Protection of Badgers Act 1992 (c. 51)

164

In section 10(1)(e) of the Protection of Badgers Act 1992, after “the Ancient
Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979” insert  “or section 3 of the
Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

##### Tribunals and Inquiries Act 1992 (c. 53)

165

In section 16(1) of the Tribunals and Inquiries Act 1992, in the definition of
“statutory inquiry”, for “the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation
Areas) Act 1990” substitute  “Parts 3 to 5 of the Historic Environment (Wales)
Act 2023” .

##### Leasehold Reform, Housing and Urban Development Act 1993 (c. 28)

166

In section 70 of the Leasehold Reform, Housing and Urban Development Act 1993—

166.a

in subsection (14‍)—

166.a.i

in the words before paragraph (a), for “in section 73” substitute  “section 73
as they apply in relation to England,” ;

166.a.ii

in paragraph (a), after “Town and Country Planning Act 1990” insert  “as it
applies in relation to England,” ;

166.b

after subsection (14) insert—

166.b.15

In this section and section 73 as they apply in relation to Wales—

166.b.15.a

“ conservation area ” has the same meaning as in the Historic Environment
(Wales) Act 2023;

166.b.15.b

“local planning authority”‍ is to be interpreted in accordance with Part 1 of
the Town and Country Planning Act 1990,

and in that Part as it applies in relation to Wales references to “the
planning Acts are to be treated as including this Act.

##### Local Government (Wales) Act 1994 (c. 19)

167

The Local Government (Wales) Act 1994 is amended as follows.

168

In Schedule 6, omit paragraph 25 and the italic heading before it.

169

In Schedule 16, omit paragraph 56 and the italic heading before it.

##### Value Added Tax Act 1994 (c. 23)

170

In Schedule 8 to the Value Added Tax Act 1994, in Group 6, in Note (1)—

170.a

in paragraph (a), after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

170.a.ia

the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023; or

;

170.b

in paragraph (b), after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

170.b.ia

the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023; or

.

##### Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 (c. 33)

171

The Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 is amended as follows.

172

In section 60C(8), in paragraph (b) of the definition of “land”, after “the
Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979” insert  “or the Historic
Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

173

In section 61(9), in paragraph (a)(ii) of the definition of “land”, after “the
Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979” insert  “or the Historic
Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

174

In section 62E(2)(b), after “the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas
Act 1979” insert  “or the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023” .

##### Environment Act 1995 (c. 25)

175

In Schedule 9 to the Environment Act 1995, in paragraph 13(1), omit “and in
section 6 of the Historic Buildings and Ancient Monuments Act 1953 (under
which grants for the acquisition of buildings in Wales may be made)”.

##### Planning (Consequential Provisions) (Scotland) Act 1997 (c. 11)

176

In Schedule 2 to the Planning (Consequential Provisions) (Scotland) Act 1997,
in paragraph 4, omit sub-paragraph (2).

##### National Assembly for Wales (Transfer of Functions) Order 1999 (S.I. 1999/672)

177

In Schedule 1 to the National Assembly for Wales (Transfer of Functions) Order
1999, omit the entries for—

177.a

the Historic Buildings and Ancient Monuments Act 1953;

177.b

the Mines (Working Facilities and Support) Act 1966;

177.c

the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979;

177.d

the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990.

##### Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000 (c. 37)

178

The Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000 is amended as follows.

179

In section 15(1), after paragraph (d) insert—

or

179.e

the public have access to it under subsection (1) of section 55 of the
Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023 (public access to monuments under public
control) or would have access to it under that subsection but for any of the
things mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (c) of that subsection.

180

In section 26(3)(b)(i), after “the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas
Act 1979” insert  “or section 3 of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023”
.

##### Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 (c. 5)

181

In section 81 of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004, omit
subsection (2).

##### Government of Wales Act 2006 (c. 32)

182

The Government of Wales Act 2006 is amended as follows.

183

In Schedule 3A, in the table in paragraph 1, omit the entry relating to
paragraph 6(6) of Schedule 3 to the Planning (Listed Buildings and
Conservation Areas) Act 1990.

184

In Schedule 10, omit paragraph 36.

##### National Assembly for Wales Commission (Crown Status) (No. 2) Order 2007 (S.I. 2007/1353)

185

In the National Assembly for Wales Commission (Crown Status) (No. 2) Order
2007—

185.a

omit article 3;

185.b

omit article 5.

##### Regulatory Enforcement and Sanctions Act 2008 (c. 13)

186

In Schedule 7 to the Regulatory Enforcement and Sanctions Act 2008, at the
appropriate place insert—

Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023, section 147

.

##### Planning Act 2008 (c. 29)

187

In Schedule 2 to the Planning Act 2008, omit paragraph 41.

##### Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 (c. 24)

188

In Schedule 17 to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013, in paragraph
12—

188.a

omit sub-paragraph (2);

188.b

omit sub-paragraphs (4) and (5).

##### Planning (Wales) Act 2015 (anaw 4)

189

The Planning (Wales) Act 2015 is amended as follows.

190

Omit section 39(3).

191

Omit section 47(3).

192

In Schedule 5, omit paragraphs 19 to 22 and the italic heading before
paragraph 19.

##### Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2016 (anaw 4)

193

The Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2016 is repealed.

##### Housing and Planning Act 2016 (c. 22)

194

In section 5(8) of the Housing and Planning Act 2016, in the new section 70(3)
of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990, after paragraph (c) insert—

194.ca

section 160 of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023;

.

##### Public Services Ombudsman (Wales) Act 2019 (anaw 3)

195

In Schedule 5 to the Public Services Ombudsman (Wales) Act 2019—

195.a

omit paragraph 10 and the italic heading before it;

195.b

omit paragraphs 13 and 14 and the italic heading before paragraph 13.

##### Sentencing Act 2020 (c. 17)

196

In section 137(3) of the Sentencing Act 2020, for “is to be made” substitute
“in England is to be made, and section 59 of the Historic Environment (Wales)
Act 2023 makes equivalent provision for monuments in Wales” .

##### The Levelling-Up and Regeneration Act 2023 (c. 55)

197

The Levelling-Up and Regeneration Act 2023 is amended as follows.

198

In section 102—

198.a

in subsection (3), for the words from “after subsection (2)” to the end
substitute  “in subsection (2), after “preserving” insert “or enhancing”” ;

198.b

in subsection (4)—

198.b.i

before paragraph (a) insert—

198.b.i.za

in subsection (1), after “preserving” insert  “or enhancing” ;

;

198.b.ii

for paragraph (b) substitute—

198.b.ii.b

in subsection (2), after “preserving” insert  “or enhancing” .

199

In section 103—

199.a

omit subsections (3) to (6);

199.b

omit subsection (10)(b) and (c);

199.c

omit subsection (12)(a) and (c).

200

Omit section 105(3) and (4).

            TRANSITIONAL AND SAVING PROVISIONS

(introduced by section 211(2))

##### GENERAL PROVISIONS

###### Statutory and other references to this Act

1

1.1

This paragraph applies to any reference (express or implied) in this Act or
any other enactment, or in any other instrument or document, to—

1.1.a

a provision of this Act, or

1.1.b

anything done or to be done under or for the purposes of a provision of this
Act.

1.2

In relation to any time when a corresponding provision of a repealed enactment
(or of any earlier enactment) had effect, the reference is to be read as
including a reference to—

1.2.a

the corresponding provision as it had effect at that time, or

1.2.b

things done or to be done under or for the purposes of that provision as it
had effect at that time.

###### Documents referring to repealed enactments

2

2.1

This paragraph applies to any reference to a repealed enactment which is
contained in a document made, served or issued after the repeal of that
enactment.

2.2

Unless the context requires otherwise, the reference is to be read (according
to the context) as referring to, or including a reference to, the
corresponding provision of this Act.

###### Relationship with Legislation (Wales) Act 2019

3

This Schedule applies in addition to sections 34 and 35 of the  Legislation
(Wales) Act 2019 (anaw 4)  (general savings and effect of re-enactment) and
does not limit the operation of those sections in connection with the repeal,
revocation or re-enactment of any enactment by this Act.

###### Interpretation

4

In this Part of this Schedule—

4.a

references to a provision of this Act include a provision inserted into any
other enactment by this Act;

4.b

“ repealed enactment ” means any enactment that is repealed by this Act;

4.c

references to repealing an enactment include excluding or limiting its
application or effect (whether in relation to Wales or otherwise).

##### GUARDIANSHIP OF MONUMENTS

###### Guardianship orders made under 1953 Act

5

5.1

Where, immediately before Part 2 of this Act comes into force, the Welsh
Ministers are guardians of a monument by virtue of a guardianship order—

5.1.a

made, or treated as having been made, under section 12(5) of the  Historic
Buildings and Ancient Monuments Act 1953 (c. 49) , and

5.1.b

continued in force by paragraph 2(1) of Schedule 3 to the  Ancient Monuments
and Archaeological Areas Act 1979 (c. 46) ,

the order continues in force despite the coming into force of that Part.

5.2

That Part applies while the guardianship order is in force as if the Welsh
Ministers had been appointed as guardians of the monument by a deed under
section 45 of this Act—

5.2.a

not containing any restriction not contained in the order, and

5.2.b

executed by all the persons who, at the time when the order was made, were
able by deed to appoint the Welsh Ministers guardians of the monument.

5.3

The Welsh Ministers may revoke a guardianship order to which this paragraph
applies.

###### Control and management of monument where guardianship pre-dates 1979 Act

6

6.1

This paragraph applies where—

6.1.a

a monument was taken into guardianship before 9 October 1981 (the date Part 1
of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979 came into force),
and

6.1.b

immediately before Part 2 of this Act comes into force, the monument is under
the guardianship of the Welsh Ministers or a local authority.

6.2

Section 47(2) (full control and management) does not apply to the monument
unless—

6.2.a

the deed establishing guardianship provided for control and management of the
monument by the guardians, or

6.2.b

the persons for the time being immediately affected by the operation of the
guardianship deed have consented to the control and management of the monument
by the guardians.

###### Public access to monument where guardianship pre-dates 1913 Act

7

7.1

This paragraph applies where—

7.1.a

a monument was taken into guardianship before 15 August 1913 (the date the
Ancient Monuments Consolidation and Amendment Act 1913 (c. 32)  came into
force), and

7.1.b

immediately before Part 2 of this Act comes into force, the monument is under
the guardianship of the Welsh Ministers or a local authority.

7.2

Section 55(1) (duty to ensure public access) does not apply to the monument
unless—

7.2.a

the deed establishing guardianship provided for public access to the monument,
or

7.2.b

the persons for the time being immediately affected by the operation of the
guardianship deed have consented to the public having access to the monument.

###### Interpretation

8

For the purposes of paragraphs 6 and 7, a person is immediately affected by
the operation of a guardianship deed relating to a monument if the person is
bound by that deed and is in possession or occupation of the monument.

##### MISCELLANEOUS

###### Offence of breaching temporary stop notice in relation to scheduled monument

9

Section 33(4)(b) does not apply in relation to proceedings for an offence
relating to a temporary stop notice that was issued before section 33 comes
into force.

###### Service and taking effect of enforcement notice in relation to scheduled monument

10

Section 36(5)(a) does not apply in relation to the service of an enforcement
notice that was issued before section 36 comes into force.

###### Purchase notice served on council in relation to building in National Park

11

11.1

Sub-paragraph (2) applies in relation to a purchase notice that has been
served on a county council or county borough council in Wales in relation to a
building in a National Park before section 109 comes into force.

11.2

The following provisions are to be read as if references to a planning
authority were references to the council—

11.2.a

section 183(7)(c);

11.2.b

section 186(3) and (7);

11.2.c

Schedule 9.

###### Building preservation notices in England: compensation

12

The continuing operation of the saving made by section 105(4) of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023 is not affected by the repeal of that
provision by paragraph 200 of Schedule 13 to this Act, by the repeal of
section 29 of the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990
by paragraph 116 of that Schedule, or by any other provision of that Schedule.

