Title: Hunting with Dogs (Scotland) Act 2023
Date: 2024-02-08
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2023/1

## Hunting with Dogs (Scotland) Act 2023

### Hunting a wild mammal using a dog

#### Offences

##### Offence of hunting a wild mammal using a dog

1

1.1

A person commits an offence if—

1.1.a

the person hunts a wild mammal using a dog, and

1.1.b

none of the exceptions in sections  3 ,  5 ,  6, 7, 8  or  9  apply.

1.2

A person who commits an offence under  subsection (1)  is liable—

1.2.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or a
fine not exceeding £40,000 (or both),

1.2.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years
or a fine (or both).

1.3

In this Act—

      “ hunting ” includes, in particular, searching for and coursing (and
related expressions are to be construed accordingly),           “ wild mammal
” means any mammal (other than a human)—         which—         is living in a
wild state,           is of a species recognised as living in a wild state in
the British Islands (as defined in schedule 1 of the Interpretation Act 1978),
or           has been deliberately released from temporary or permanent human
control, and                 which is not—         a rat,           a mouse,
or           living under temporary or permanent human control.

1.4

In this Part, a person is “using a dog” when the hunting of a wild mammal by
that person involves the use of a dog, even if the dog is not under that
person’s control or direction (and related expressions are to be construed
accordingly).

##### Offences of knowingly causing or permitting another person to hunt using a dog

2

2.1

A person commits an offence if—

2.1.a

the person—

2.1.a.i

is an owner or occupier of land, and

2.1.a.ii

knowingly causes or permits another person to hunt a wild mammal using a dog
on that land, and

2.1.b

none of the exceptions in sections  3 ,  5 ,  6, 7, 8  or  9  apply to the
hunting.

2.2

A person commits an offence if—

2.2.a

the person—

2.2.a.i

owns or is responsible for a dog, and

2.2.a.ii

knowingly causes or permits another person to hunt a wild mammal using that
dog, and

2.2.b

none of the exceptions in sections  3 ,  5 ,  6, 7, 8  or  9  apply to the
hunting.

2.3

A person who commits an offence under  subsection (1)  or  (2)  is liable on
summary conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or a
fine not exceeding £40,000 (or both).

2.4

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under  subsection (1)  or
(2)  to show that the person reasonably believed that any of the exceptions in
sections  3 ,  5 ,  6, 7, 8  or  9  applied to the hunting.

2.5

In this Part, an “owner” of land includes a person who—

2.5.a

manages or controls that land, or

2.5.b

is authorised to give permission for that land to be used for hunting.

2.6

In this Act, a person “is responsible for” a dog where the person—

2.6.a

is responsible for the dog on a temporary or permanent basis,

2.6.b

is in charge of the dog, or

2.6.c

has actual care and control of a person under the age of 16 years who is
responsible for the dog under  paragraph (a)  or  (b) .

#### Exceptions to the offences

##### Exception: management of wild mammals above ground

3

3.1

This section applies if—

3.1.a

a person is using a dog above ground to—

3.1.a.i

search for, stalk or flush from cover a wild mammal, with the intention of
killing it for one or more of the purposes set out in  subsection (2) ,

3.1.a.ii

search for and retrieve a wild mammal which has been killed as a result of the
activity mentioned in  sub-paragraph (i) , and

3.1.b

the conditions set out in  subsection (3)  are met.

3.2

The purposes referred to in  subsection (1) (a) (i)  are—

3.2.a

preventing serious damage to livestock, woodland or crops,

3.2.b

preventing the spread of disease,

3.2.c

protecting human health.

3.3

The conditions referred to in  subsection (1) (b)  are that—

3.3.a

either—

3.3.a.i

the activity mentioned in  subsection (1) (a)  does not involve the use of
more than two dogs, or

3.3.a.ii

the activity is carried out in accordance with a licence granted under
section 4 ,

3.3.b

any dog used in the activity is under control,

3.3.c

unless  paragraph (a) (ii)  applies, reasonable steps are taken to ensure that
any dog used in the activity does not join with others to form a pack of more
than two dogs,

3.3.d

permission for the activity has been given by the owner of the land on which
the activity takes place,

3.3.e

the wild mammal which is being searched for, stalked or flushed is shot dead,
or killed by a bird of prey, as soon as reasonably possible,

3.3.f

if an attempt to kill the wild mammal, as mentioned in  paragraph (e) ,
results in it being injured but not killed, reasonable steps are taken to kill
it in a way (other than by using a dog) that causes it the minimum possible
suffering.

##### Licence for use of more than two dogs in connection with 

4

4.1

A person may apply for a licence permitting the use of more than two dogs for
the activity mentioned in  section 3 (1) (a) .

4.2

An application for a licence under  subsection (1)  must—

4.2.a

be made to the relevant authority,

4.2.b

be in such form as the relevant authority may require,

4.2.c

contain or be accompanied by such information as the relevant authority may
require, which may in particular include—

4.2.c.i

the number of dogs for which permission is being sought,

4.2.c.ii

the number of guns intended to be deployed,

4.2.d

be accompanied by payment of such reasonable fee as the relevant authority may
require.

4.3

The relevant authority must publicise any requirements which are for the time
being set under  subsection (2) (b) ,  (c)  or  (d) .

4.4

A licence under  subsection (1) —

4.4.a

may be granted to a particular person or to a category of persons,

4.4.b

must relate to a particular species of wild mammal,

4.4.c

must not be granted unless the relevant authority is satisfied that there is
no other solution which would be effective in achieving the purpose set out in
section 3 (2)  in relation to which the application for a licence is being
made,

4.4.d

may only permit the use of the minimum number of dogs which the relevant
authority is satisfied would be effective in achieving the purpose set out in
section 3 (2)  in relation to which the application for a licence is being
made,

4.4.e

must require the deployment of the minimum number of guns which the relevant
authority is satisfied would be effective for compliance with the conditions
set out in section 3(3)(e) and (f) in relation to the activity for which the
application for a licence is being made,

4.4.f

may be subject to compliance with such conditions as the relevant authority
considers appropriate, which may include, in particular, reporting
requirements in relation to activities carried out under the licence,

4.4.g

may be granted for a maximum period of 14 days, which must fall within a
period of 6 consecutive months,

4.4.h

may be modified or revoked by the relevant authority at any time.

4.5

A licence under  subsection (1)  must specify—

4.5.a

the person or category of persons to whom it is granted,

4.5.b

the species of wild mammal to which it relates,

4.5.c

the area within which the searching for, stalking or flushing of that species
of wild mammal may take place under the licence,

4.5.d

the maximum number of dogs which are permitted to be used,

4.5.e

the minimum number of guns (if any) which are required to be deployed,

4.5.f

any conditions to which the licence is subject,

4.5.g

the period of time for which the licence is valid.

4.6

In this section, “ relevant authority ” means—

4.6.a

the Scottish Ministers, or

4.6.b

where the Scottish Ministers have delegated their functions in relation to
licences, Scottish Natural Heritage.

##### Exception: management of foxes below ground

5

5.1

This section applies if—

5.1.a

a person is using a dog to—

5.1.a.i

search for a fox below ground, or

5.1.a.ii

flush a fox from below ground,

with the intention of killing it for one or more of the purposes set out in
subsection (2) , and

5.1.b

the conditions set out in  subsection (3)  are met.

5.2

The purposes referred to in  subsection (1) (a)  are—

5.2.a

preventing serious damage to livestock, woodland or crops,

5.2.b

preventing the spread of disease,

5.2.c

protecting human health,

5.2.d

relieving the suffering of an injured or dependent fox.

5.3

The conditions referred to in  subsection (1) (b)  are that—

5.3.a

the activity mentioned in  subsection (1) (a)  does not involve the use of
more than one dog,

5.3.b

the dog used in the activity is—

5.3.b.i

under control,

5.3.b.ii

fitted with a device to allow tracking of the position of the dog below
ground,

5.3.c

reasonable steps are taken—

5.3.c.i

to prevent the dog becoming trapped below ground, and

5.3.c.ii

if the dog becomes trapped below ground, to ensure that it is rescued as soon
as reasonably possible,

5.3.d

permission for the activity has been given by the owner of the land on which
the activity takes place,

5.3.e

no steps are taken to prevent the fox from being flushed or emerging from
below ground,

5.3.f

if the fox which is being searched for or flushed is found or emerges from
below ground, it is shot dead, or killed by a bird of prey, as soon as
reasonably possible,

5.3.g

if an attempt to kill the fox, as mentioned in  paragraph (f) , results in it
being injured but not killed, reasonable steps are taken to kill it in a way
(other than by using a dog) that causes it the minimum possible suffering.

5.4

In this section, “ dependent ” means that the mother of a fox is dead and it
is too young to survive on its own.

##### Exception: falconry, game shooting and deer stalking

6

6.1

This section applies if—

6.1.a

a person is using a dog above ground to—

6.1.a.i

search for, stalk or flush from cover a wild mammal, with the intention of
providing quarry for falconry, game shooting or deer stalking,

6.1.a.ii

search for and retrieve a wild mammal which has been killed as a result of the
activity mentioned in  sub-paragraph (i) , and

6.1.b

the conditions set out in  subsection (2)  are met.

6.2

The conditions referred to in  subsection (1) (b)  are that—

6.2.a

the activity mentioned in  subsection (1) (a)  does not involve the use of
more than two dogs,

6.2.b

any dog used in the activity is under control,

6.2.c

reasonable steps are taken to ensure that any dog used in the activity does
not join with others to form a pack of more than two dogs,

6.2.d

permission for the activity has been given by the owner of the land on which
the activity takes place,

6.2.e

the wild mammal which is being searched for, stalked or flushed is shot dead,
or killed by a bird of prey, as soon as reasonably possible,

6.2.f

if an attempt to kill the wild mammal, as mentioned in  paragraph (e) ,
results in it being injured but not killed, reasonable steps are taken to kill
it in a way (other than by using a dog) that causes it the minimum possible
suffering.

6.3

In this section—

      “ deer stalking ” means the stealthy approach of a deer in order to
shoot it for sport,           “ falconry ” means the use of a bird of prey to
hunt for sport,           “ game shooting ” means shooting wild mammals for
sport,           “ quarry ” means the wild mammal intended to be killed by a
bird of prey or shot.

##### Exception: relieving the suffering of injured wild mammals

7

7.1

This section applies if—

7.1.a

a person is using a dog above ground to search for, stalk or flush from cover
a wild mammal which the person has reasonable grounds for believing is
injured, with the intention of treating, capturing or killing it for the
purpose of relieving its suffering,

7.1.b

the wild mammal was not deliberately injured for the purpose of allowing the
activity mentioned in paragraph (a) to take place, and

7.1.c

the conditions set out in subsection (2) are met.

7.2

The conditions referred to in subsection (1)(c) are that—

7.2.a

the activity mentioned in subsection (1)(a) does not involve the use of more
than two dogs,

7.2.b

any dog used in the activity is under control,

7.2.c

reasonable steps are taken to ensure that any dog used in the activity does
not join with others to form a pack of more than two dogs,

7.2.d

either—

7.2.d.i

permission for the activity has been given by the owner of the land on which
the activity takes place,

7.2.d.ii

the person carrying out the activity is a constable exercising a power of
entry,

7.2.d.iii

the person carrying out the activity is exercising a power of entry under
section 14M or 14N of the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981, or

7.2.d.iv

the person carrying out the activity is exercising a power of entry under
section 15 of the Deer (Scotland) Act 1996,

7.2.e

the wild mammal which is being searched for, stalked or flushed is, as soon as
reasonably possible, either—

7.2.e.i

given treatment to reduce or alleviate its pain or discomfort before being
allowed to escape without being pursued or killed,

7.2.e.ii

captured for the purpose of being given treatment to reduce or alleviate its
pain or discomfort (whether at that place or at another place),

7.2.e.iii

shot dead, or

7.2.e.iv

observed and allowed to escape without being pursued or killed,

7.2.f

if an attempt to kill the wild mammal, as mentioned in paragraph (e)(iii),
results in it being injured but not killed, reasonable steps are taken to kill
it in a way (other than by using a dog) that causes it the minimum possible
suffering.

##### Exception: searching for dead wild mammals

8

8.1

This section applies if—

8.1.a

a person is using a dog above ground to search for and retrieve a dead wild
mammal, and

8.1.b

the conditions set out in subsection (2) are met.

8.2

The conditions referred to in subsection (1)(b) are that—

8.2.a

the activity mentioned in subsection (1)(a) does not involve the use of more
than two dogs,

8.2.b

any dog used in the activity is under control,

8.2.c

reasonable steps are taken to ensure that any dog used in the activity does
not join with others to form a pack of more than two dogs,

8.2.d

either—

8.2.d.i

permission for the activity has been given by the owner of the land on which
the activity takes place,

8.2.d.ii

the person carrying out the activity is a constable exercising a power of
entry,

8.2.d.iii

the person carrying out the activity is exercising a power of entry under
section 14M or 14N of the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981, or

8.2.d.iv

the person carrying out the activity is exercising a power of entry under
section 15 of the Deer (Scotland) Act 1996,

8.2.e

reasonable steps are taken to ensure that no wild mammal is pursued, injured
or killed.

##### Exception: environmental benefit

9

9.1

This section applies if—

9.1.a

the person is using a dog above ground to—

9.1.a.i

search for, stalk or flush from cover a wild mammal, with the intention of
killing, capturing or observing it as part of a scheme or plan for one or more
of the purposes set out in  subsection (2) ,

9.1.a.ii

search for and retrieve a wild mammal which has been killed as a result of the
activity referred to in  sub-paragraph (i) , and

9.1.b

the conditions set out in  subsection (3)  are met.

9.2

The purposes referred to in  subsection (1) (a) (i)  are—

9.2.a

preserving, protecting or restoring a particular species (which may include
controlling the number of a species for its welfare) for environmental
benefit,

9.2.b

preserving, protecting or restoring the diversity of animal or plant life,

9.2.c

eradicating an invasive non-native species of wild mammal from an area.

9.3

The conditions referred to in  subsection (1) (b)  are that—

9.3.a

either—

9.3.a.i

the activity mentioned in  subsection (1) (a)  does not involve the use of
more than two dogs, or

9.3.a.ii

the activity is carried out in accordance with a licence granted under
section 10 ,

9.3.b

any dog used in the activity is under control,

9.3.c

unless  paragraph (a) (ii)  applies, reasonable steps are taken to ensure that
any dog used in the activity does not join with others to form a pack of more
than two dogs,

9.3.d

either—

9.3.d.i

permission for the activity has been given by the owner of the land on which
the activity takes place,

9.3.d.ii

the person carrying out the activity is exercising a power of entry under
section 14M or 14N of the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981, or

9.3.d.iii

the person carrying out the activity is exercising a power of entry under
section 15 of the Deer (Scotland) Act 1996,

9.3.e

the wild mammal which is being searched for, stalked or flushed is either—

9.3.e.i

captured (whether or not with the intention of subsequently releasing or
relocating it) as soon as reasonably possible,

9.3.e.ii

shot dead, or killed by a bird of prey, as soon as reasonably possible, or

9.3.e.iii

observed and allowed to escape without being pursued, injured or killed,

9.3.f

if an attempt to kill the wild mammal, as mentioned in  paragraph (e) (ii) ,
results in it being injured but not killed, reasonable steps are taken to kill
it in a way (other than by using a dog) that causes it the minimum possible
suffering.

9.4

In this section—

      “ invasive non-native species ” means a species—         which is
included on the Scottish list of species of special concern, or
which is—         not native to the area in which the activity mentioned in
subsection (1) (a)  takes place, and           having or likely to have a
significant adverse impact on biodiversity, the environment, social or
economic interests or human or animal health,                       “ Scottish
list of species of special concern ” means the list of species in the Annex to
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/1141  adopting a list of invasive
alien species of Union concern pursuant to  Regulation (EU) No 1143/2014  of
the European Parliament and of the Council, as amended from time to time.

##### Licence for use of more than two dogs in connection with 

10

10.1

A person may apply for a licence permitting the use of more than two dogs for
the activity mentioned in  section 9 (1) (a) .

10.2

An application for a licence under  subsection (1)  must—

10.2.a

be made to the relevant authority,

10.2.b

be in such form as the relevant authority may require,

10.2.c

contain or be accompanied by such information as the relevant authority may
require, which may in particular include—

10.2.c.i

the number of dogs for which permission is being sought,

10.2.c.ii

the number of guns intended to be deployed,

10.2.d

be accompanied by payment of such reasonable fee as the relevant authority may
require.

10.3

The relevant authority must publicise any requirements which are for the time
being set under  subsection (2) (b) ,  (c)  or  (d) .

10.4

A licence under  subsection (1) —

10.4.a

may be granted to a particular person or to a category of persons,

10.4.b

must relate to a particular species of wild mammal,

10.4.c

must not be granted unless the relevant authority is satisfied—

10.4.c.i

that killing, capturing or observing the wild mammal will contribute towards a
significant or long-term environmental benefit, and

10.4.c.ii

that there is no other solution which would be effective in achieving the
purpose set out in  section 9 (2)  in relation to which the application for a
licence is being made,

10.4.d

may only permit the use of the minimum number of dogs which the relevant
authority is satisfied would be effective in achieving the purpose set out in
section 9 (2)  in relation to which the application for a licence is being
made,

10.4.e

must require the deployment of the minimum number of guns which the relevant
authority is satisfied would be effective for compliance with the conditions
set out in section 9(3)(e) and (f) in relation to the activity for which the
application for a licence is being made,

10.4.f

may be subject to compliance with such conditions as the relevant authority
considers appropriate, which may include, in particular, reporting
requirements in relation to activities carried out under the licence,

10.4.g

may be granted for a maximum period of two years, which must fall within a
period of two consecutive years,

10.4.h

may be modified or revoked at any time by the relevant authority.

10.5

A licence under  subsection (1)  must specify—

10.5.a

the person or category of persons to whom it is granted,

10.5.b

the species of wild mammal to which it relates,

10.5.c

the area within which the searching for, stalking or flushing of that species
of wild mammal may take place under the licence,

10.5.d

the maximum number of dogs which are permitted to be used,

10.5.e

the minimum number of guns (if any) which are required to be deployed,

10.5.f

any conditions to which the licence is subject,

10.5.g

the period of time for which the licence is valid.

10.6

In this section, “ relevant authority ” has the same meaning as in  section 4
(6) .

#### General provision on licences

##### Delegation of functions in relation to licences

11

11.1

The Scottish Ministers may delegate their functions in relation to licences
under sections  4  and  10  to Scottish Natural Heritage.

11.2

Any delegation must be made by written direction.

11.3

A direction may include provision allowing Scottish Natural Heritage to modify
or revoke licences that were granted before the direction.

11.4

The Scottish Ministers may modify or revoke a direction.

11.5

If a direction is revoked, any licence granted while the direction was in
force continues to have effect unless the revocation provides otherwise.

##### Offence of providing false information to obtain a licence

12

12.1

A person commits an offence if the person knowingly or recklessly makes a
false or misleading statement for the purposes of obtaining (either personally
or for another person) a licence under section  4  or  10 .

12.2

A person who commits an offence under  subsection (1)  is liable on summary
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a fine not
exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both).

##### Review of operation of sections 4 and 10

13

13.1

The Scottish Ministers must review the operation of sections 4 and 10.

13.2

The first review under subsection (1) must be carried out no later than 31
December 2028.

13.3

The second and each subsequent review must be carried out no later than the
expiry of the period of 5 years beginning with the date on which the last
report on a review was published under subsection (5).

13.4

In carrying out a review, the Scottish Ministers must consult—

13.4.a

such persons as they consider have an interest in the operation of sections 4
and 10, and

13.4.b

such other persons as they consider appropriate.

13.5

As soon as reasonably possible after carrying out a review, the Scottish
Ministers must—

13.5.a

lay a report on the review before the Scottish Parliament, and

13.5.b

publish the report in such manner as they consider appropriate.

13.6

A report under subsection (5) must set out—

13.6.a

the action (if any) that the Scottish Ministers intend to take as a result of
the review (for example, proposing a change to the law), and

13.6.b

where the Scottish Ministers do not intend to take any action, their reasons
for this.

### Trail hunting

#### Offences

##### Offences relating to trail hunting

14

14.1

A person commits an offence if—

14.1.a

the person engages or participates in trail hunting, and

14.1.b

the exception in  section 16  does not apply.

14.2

In this Part—

      “ trail hunting ” is the activity in which a dog is directed to find and
follow an animal-based scent which has been laid for that purpose,           “
animal-based scent ” means—         a scent which is derived from a wild
mammal, or           a scent which mimics, replicates or resembles the scent
of a wild mammal (or which is designed to do so), whether or not that scent is
derived wholly or in part from artificial ingredients.

14.3

A person commits an offence if—

14.3.a

the person—

14.3.a.i

is an owner or occupier of land, and

14.3.a.ii

knowingly causes or permits another person to engage or participate in trail
hunting on that land, and

14.3.b

the exception in  section 16  does not apply to the trail hunting.

14.4

A person commits an offence if—

14.4.a

the person—

14.4.a.i

owns or is responsible for a dog, and

14.4.a.ii

knowingly causes or permits another person to use the dog for trail hunting,
and

14.4.b

the exception in  section 16  does not apply to the trail hunting.

14.5

A person who commits an offence under  subsection (1) ,  (3)  or  (4)  is
liable on summary conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or a fine not exceeding £40,000 (or both).

14.6

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under  subsection (3)  or
(4)  to show that the person reasonably believed that the exception in
section 16  applied to the trail hunting.

14.7

In this Part, an “owner” of land includes, in particular, a person who—

14.7.a

manages or controls that land, or

14.7.b

is authorised to give permission for that land to be used for trail hunting.

##### Power to modify meaning of trail hunting

15

15.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify section 14 so as to include
in the definition of trail hunting a scent other than an animal-based scent.

15.2

The Scottish Ministers may make regulations under subsection (1) only if they
consider that modifying the definition of trail hunting would contribute
towards the protection of wild mammals from unlawful hunting using dogs.

15.3

Regulations under subsection (1) are subject to the affirmative procedure.

15.4

Before laying a draft of a Scottish statutory instrument containing
regulations under subsection (1) before the Scottish Parliament, the Scottish
Ministers must consult such persons as they consider appropriate.

15.5

Regulations under subsection (1) may—

15.5.a

make different provision for different purposes,

15.5.b

modify—

15.5.b.i

this Part,

15.5.b.ii

section 19(1), 21(10), 22(13) or paragraph 1 of the schedule where such
modification is consequential to the modification of this Part,

15.5.c

make incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory or
saving provision (including provision for exceptions to the offences in
section 14).

#### Exception to the offences

##### Exception: training dogs to follow an animal-based scent

16

16.1

This section applies if—

16.1.a

a person—

16.1.a.i

directs a dog to find and follow an animal-based scent which has been laid for
that purpose, or

16.1.a.ii

lays an animal-based scent for a dog to find and follow,

in order to train a dog for a lawful purpose, and

16.1.b

all of the conditions set out in  subsection (2)  are met.

16.2

The conditions are that—

16.2.a

the activity mentioned in  subsection (1) (a)  does not involve more than two
dogs,

16.2.b

any dog involved in the activity is under control,

16.2.c

reasonable steps are taken to ensure that any dog involved in the activity
does not join with others to form a pack of more than two dogs,

16.2.d

permission for the activity has been given by the owner of the land on which
the activity takes place,

16.2.e

reasonable steps are taken to ensure that no wild mammal is pursued, injured
or killed.

### Further provision relating to offences

#### Enforcement

##### Search of a person without warrant

17

If a constable has reasonable grounds for suspecting that a person has
committed or is committing an offence under this Act, the constable may—

17.a

search that person without warrant, and detain the person for such time as is
reasonably required to permit the search to be carried out,

17.b

search or examine any thing found in the course of a search, if the constable
has reasonable grounds for suspecting that evidence of the commission of the
offence is to be found in or on that thing,

17.c

seize any thing found in the course of a search which may be relevant to the
commission of the offence.

##### Powers of enforcement

18

The schedule makes further provision about the powers of constables for the
purposes of and in connection with this Act.

#### Proceedings

##### Time limit for summary proceedings

19

19.1

Proceedings for an offence under  section 2 (1)  or  (2)  or  section 14 (1) ,
(3)  or  (4)  may be brought within the period of 6 months beginning with the
date on which evidence sufficient in the opinion of the prosecutor to justify
the proceedings came to the prosecutor’s knowledge.

19.2

But no such proceedings may be brought more than 3 years—

19.2.a

after the commission of the offence, or

19.2.b

in the case of an offence involving a continuous contravention, after the last
date on which the offence was committed.

19.3

A certificate signed by or on behalf of the prosecutor which states the date
on which evidence referred to in  subsection (1)  came to the prosecutor’s
knowledge is conclusive evidence of that fact, and such a certificate which
purports to be so signed is to be treated as being so signed unless the
contrary is proved.

##### Individual culpability where organisation commits an offence

20

20.1

This section applies where—

20.1.a

an offence under this Act is committed by a relevant organisation, and

20.1.b

the commission of the offence—

20.1.b.i

involves consent or connivance on the part of a responsible individual, or

20.1.b.ii

is attributable to neglect on the part of a responsible individual.

20.2

The responsible individual (as well as the relevant organisation) commits the
offence.

20.3

For the purposes of this section—

      “ relevant organisation ” means an organisation listed in the first
column of the table in subsection (4),           “ responsible individual ”
means, in relation to a relevant organisation—         an individual falling
within the corresponding entry in the second column of the table in subsection
(4),           an individual purporting to act in the capacity of an
individual falling within the corresponding entry.

20.4

The table is as follows—

    Organisation Individual   Company as mentioned in section 1 of the
Companies Act 2006 Director, manager, secretary or other similar officer, or,
where the company’s affairs are managed by its members, member Limited
liability partnership Member Other partnership Partner Any other body or
association Individual who is concerned in the management or control of its
affairs

#### Court orders

##### Deprivation orders

21

21.1

Where a person is convicted of a relevant offence, the convicting court may
make an order (in this Part referred to as a “ deprivation order ”) in respect
of any dog or horse used in or present at the commission of the offence.

21.2

A deprivation order is an order—

21.2.a

depriving a person of possession or ownership (or both) of a dog or horse, and

21.2.b

for—

21.2.b.i

the destruction,

21.2.b.ii

the sale, or

21.2.b.iii

another disposal,

of the dog or horse.

21.3

The court may not make—

21.3.a

a deprivation order which involves the destruction of a dog or horse unless it
is satisfied, on evidence provided (orally or in writing) by a veterinary
surgeon, that destruction would be in the interests of the dog or horse,

21.3.b

any other deprivation order unless it has considered the need to ensure the
welfare of the dog or horse.

21.4

Where the court decides not to make a deprivation order in relation to a
relevant offence, it must state its reasons unless it makes a disqualification
order under  section 22  in relation to the offence.

21.5

A deprivation order may be made in addition to, or instead of, any other
penalty or order which may be imposed in relation to a relevant offence.

21.6

A deprivation order may make provision in respect of any dependent offspring
of a dog or horse to which it applies.

21.7

A deprivation order may include—

21.7.a

provision—

21.7.a.i

appointing a person who is to secure that the order is carried out,

21.7.a.ii

requiring any person possessing a dog or horse to which the order applies to
give it up to a person appointed under  sub-paragraph (i) ,

21.7.b

provision authorising—

21.7.b.i

a person appointed under  paragraph (a) (i) , and

21.7.b.ii

any person acting on that person’s behalf,

to enter any premises where a dog or horse to which the order applies is kept,
for the purposes of securing that the order is carried out,

21.7.c

such other provision as the court considers appropriate in connection with the
order.

21.8

Provision under  subsection (7) (c)  may in particular—

21.8.a

require reimbursement of—

21.8.a.i

any expenses reasonably incurred in carrying out the order,

21.8.a.ii

if the dog or horse was seized by a constable under  paragraph 4 (b)  or  5
(2) (b)  of the schedule, any expenses reasonably incurred in relation to it
since it was seized,

21.8.b

relate to the retention of the proceeds of any sale.

21.9

Before making a deprivation order, the court must give the owner of the dog or
horse concerned an opportunity to make representations unless it is not
practicable for the court to do so.

21.10

In this section, “ relevant offence ” means—

21.10.a

an offence under  section 1 (1) ,

21.10.b

an offence under  section 2 (2) ,

21.10.c

an offence under  section 14 (1)  or  (4) ,

21.10.d

an offence under  section 22 (10)  committed by reason of owning or keeping a
dog.

##### Disqualification orders

22

22.1

Where a person is convicted of a relevant offence, the convicting court may
make an order (in this Part referred to as a “ disqualification order ”) which
imposes on the person one or more of the disqualifications specified in
subsection (2) .

22.2

Those are disqualification from—

22.2.a

owning or keeping a dog (or both),

22.2.b

transporting a dog,

22.2.c

working with or using a dog (or both),

22.2.d

providing any service relating to dogs (including, in particular, for their
care) which involves taking possession of a dog,

22.2.e

taking possession of a dog for the purpose of an activity in respect of which
a disqualification mentioned in paragraphs  (a)  to  (d)  is imposed,

22.2.f

taking charge of a dog for any, or any other, purpose.

22.3

For the purposes of subsections  (1)  and  (2) , disqualification in respect
of an activity includes disqualification from any participation in the
activity including in particular—

22.3.a

making arrangements in connection with the activity,

22.3.b

being party to arrangements under which the activity may be controlled or
influenced,

22.3.c

being concerned (so far as relating to the activity) in the management or
control of a body whose business involves the activity.

22.4

However, disqualification by reference to  subsection (2) (f)  does not
include disqualification from taking charge of a dog for so long as is
necessary in the circumstances for the purpose of alleviating any suffering of
the dog, if no alternative arrangements for its care are reasonably available.

22.5

Where the court decides—

22.5.a

to make a disqualification order in relation to an offender’s first conviction
for a relevant offence, or

22.5.b

not to make a disqualification order in relation to a relevant offence,

it must state its reasons.

22.6

A disqualification order may be made in addition to any other penalty or order
which may be imposed in relation to a relevant offence.

22.7

A disqualification order which imposes disqualification from owning or keeping
a dog may be framed so as to provide that the disqualification is from owning
or keeping—

22.7.a

more than a specified number of dogs,

22.7.b

dogs of a specified kind.

22.8

A disqualification order—

22.8.a

has effect for such period as may be specified in the order,

22.8.b

may specify a period within which an application under  section 24  for
termination or variation of the order may not be made.

22.9

The court may suspend the operation of a disqualification order—

22.9.a

for such period as it considers necessary for enabling arrangements to be made
for the keeping of any dog to which the order applies,

22.9.b

pending an appeal.

22.10

A person commits an offence if the person breaches a disqualification order.

22.11

A person who commits an offence under  subsection (10)  is liable on summary
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a fine not
exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both).

22.12

If a disqualification order framed as described in  subsection (7) (a)  is
breached, the breach is to be regarded as having occurred in relation to all
of the dogs concerned (that is, without restriction by reference to the
maximum number specified) for the purpose of—

22.12.a

any proceedings for an offence under  subsection (10) ,

22.12.b

the making of—

22.12.b.i

a deprivation order,

22.12.b.ii

a seizure order under  section 23 .

22.13

In this section, a “relevant offence” is—

22.13.a

an offence under  section 1 (1) ,

22.13.b

an offence under  section 2 (2) ,

22.13.c

an offence under  section 14 (1)  or  (4) ,

22.13.d

an offence under  subsection (10) .

##### Seizure orders where disqualification breached

23

23.1

Where the court is satisfied that a person who is subject to a
disqualification order owns or keeps a dog in breach of the order, the court
may make an order (in this Part referred to as a “ seizure order ”) in respect
of any dog which the person owns or keeps in breach of the disqualification
order.

23.2

A seizure order may be made—

23.2.a

on summary application by a constable or prosecutor,

23.2.b

even if proceedings have not been, or are not likely to be, taken against the
person for an offence under  section 22 (10) .

23.3

A seizure order is an order—

23.3.a

depriving a person of possession or ownership (or both) of a dog, and

23.3.b

for—

23.3.b.i

the destruction,

23.3.b.ii

the sale, or

23.3.b.iii

another disposal,

of the dog.

23.4

The court may not make—

23.4.a

a seizure order which involves the destruction of a dog unless it is
satisfied, on evidence provided (orally or in writing) by a veterinary
surgeon, that destruction would be in the interests of the dog,

23.4.b

any other seizure order unless it has considered the need to ensure the
welfare of the dog.

23.5

A seizure order may include—

23.5.a

provision—

23.5.a.i

appointing a person who is to secure that the order is carried out,

23.5.a.ii

requiring any person possessing a dog to which the order applies to give it up
to a person appointed under  sub-paragraph (i) ,

23.5.b

provision authorising—

23.5.b.i

a person appointed under  paragraph (a) (i) , and

23.5.b.ii

any person acting on that person’s behalf,

to enter any premises where a dog to which the order applies is kept, for the
purposes of securing that the order is carried out,

23.5.c

such other provision as the court considers appropriate in connection with the
order.

23.6

Provision under  subsection (5) (c)  may in particular—

23.6.a

require reimbursement of—

23.6.a.i

any expenses reasonably incurred in carrying out the order,

23.6.a.ii

if the dog was seized by a constable under  paragraph 4 (b)  or  5 (2) (b)  of
the schedule, any expenses reasonably incurred in relation to it since it was
seized,

23.6.b

relate to the retention of the proceeds of any sale.

23.7

Before making a seizure order, the court must give the owner of the dog
concerned an opportunity to make representations unless it is not practicable
for the court to do so.

23.8

In determining whether or how to make a seizure order, the court must have
regard to the desirability of—

23.8.a

protecting the value of any dog to which the order applies, and

23.8.b

avoiding increasing any expenses which a person may be required to reimburse.

23.9

When an application is made under  subsection (2) (a) , the court may make an
order under this subsection (an “interim order”) containing such provision as
the court considers appropriate in relation to the keeping of a dog until the
application is finally determined.

23.10

Subsections  (5) ,  (6) (a)  and  (8)  apply in relation to an interim order
as they apply in relation to a seizure order.

##### Termination or variation of disqualification

24

24.1

A person who is subject to a disqualification order may request the court
which made the order to terminate or vary the order.

24.2

An application under  subsection (1)  may not be made—

24.2.a

before the expiry of the period of one year beginning with the date on which
the order was made,

24.2.b

where there has been a previous application under that subsection in relation
to the same order, before the expiry of the period of one year beginning with
the date on which the previous application was determined, or

24.2.c

within any period specified under—

24.2.c.i

section 22 (8) (b) , or

24.2.c.ii

subsection (5) .

24.3

On an application under  subsection (1) , the court may—

24.3.a

refuse the application,

24.3.b

terminate the disqualification order, or

24.3.c

vary the disqualification order so as to relax any disqualification imposed by
it.

24.4

In considering the application, the court must have particular regard to—

24.4.a

the nature of the offence in relation to which the disqualification order was
made,

24.4.b

the character of the applicant, and

24.4.c

the applicant’s conduct since the order was made.

24.5

Where the court refuses an application made under  subsection (1) , the court
may specify a period within which the applicant may not make a further
application under that subsection in relation to the same order.

##### Appeals against orders

25

25.1

Any deprivation order or disqualification order is, for the purposes of any
appeal under the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995, to be treated as a
sentence.

25.2

Where a deprivation order is made, any person (apart from a person who may
appeal against the order by virtue of  subsection (1) ) who has an interest in
any dog or horse to which the order applies may appeal to the Sheriff Appeal
Court against the order by the same procedure as applies under  subsection (1)
in relation to a deprivation order.

25.3

The disqualified person by reference to whom a seizure order is made, or any
person (apart from that disqualified person) who entered the process prior to
the making of the order, may appeal to the Sheriff Appeal Court against the
order.

25.4

The operation of any deprivation order or seizure order is suspended until—

25.4.a

any period for an appeal against the order has expired,

25.4.b

the period for an appeal against the conviction on which the order depends has
expired, and

25.4.c

any appeal against the order or that conviction has been withdrawn or finally
determined.

25.5

Where the operation of a deprivation order or seizure order is suspended under
subsection (4) , or such an order cannot be carried out because decree has not
been extracted, the court which made the order may make an order under this
subsection (an “interim order”) containing such provision as the court
considers appropriate in relation to the keeping of a dog or horse for so long
as the deprivation order or seizure order remains suspended or incapable of
being carried out.

25.6

An interim order may in particular—

25.6.a

make provision—

25.6.a.i

appointing a person who is to secure that the interim order is carried out,

25.6.a.ii

requiring any person possessing a dog or horse to which the interim order
applies to give it up to a person appointed under  sub-paragraph (i) ,

25.6.b

make provision authorising—

25.6.b.i

a person appointed under  paragraph (a) (i) , and

25.6.b.ii

any person acting on that person’s behalf,

to enter any premises where a dog or horse to which the interim order applies
is kept, for the purposes of securing that the interim order is carried out,

25.6.c

for reimbursement of—

25.6.c.i

any expenses reasonably incurred in carrying out the interim order,

25.6.c.ii

if the dog or horse was seized by a constable under  paragraph 4 (b)  or  5
(2) (b)  of the schedule, any expenses reasonably incurred in relation to it
since it was seized.

25.7

In determining whether or how to make an interim order, the court must have
regard to the desirability of—

25.7.a

protecting the value of any dog or horse to which the order applies, and

25.7.b

avoiding increasing any expenses which a person may be required to reimburse.

25.8

Where the operation of a deprivation order is suspended under  subsection (4)
, a person commits an offence if the person sells or otherwise parts with a
dog or horse to which the order applies.

25.9

A person who commits an offence under  subsection (8)  is liable on summary
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a fine not
exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both).

### General provisions

#### Ancillary provision

26

26.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make any incidental, supplementary,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision they consider
appropriate for the purposes of, in connection with or for giving full effect
to this Act.

26.2

Regulations under this section may—

26.2.a

make different provision for different purposes,

26.2.b

modify any enactment (including this Act).

26.3

Regulations under this section—

26.3.a

are subject to the affirmative procedure if they add to, replace or omit any
part of the text of this or any other Act,

26.3.b

otherwise, are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Interpretation

27

In this Act—

      “ animal ” means a vertebrate (other than a human) or an invertebrate,
“ carcase ” means the carcase of an animal and includes part of a carcase, and
the meat, bones, hide, skin, hooves, offal or other part of an animal,
separately or otherwise, or any portion of such a thing,           “ constable
” has the meaning given by section 99(1) of the Police and Fire Reform
(Scotland) Act 2012,           “ cover ” means a place above ground in which a
wild mammal may be concealed from sight, but does not include an enclosed
place from which a wild mammal could not be flushed,           “ deprivation
order ” has the meaning given by  section 21 (1) ,           “
disqualification order ” has the meaning given by  section 22 (1) ,
“ hunting ” is to be construed in accordance with  section 1 (3) ,           “
livestock ” means cattle, sheep, goats, swine, horses, camelids, ratites,
farmed deer, enclosed game birds or poultry, and for the purposes of this
definition—         “ cattle ” means bulls, cows, oxen, buffalo, heifers or
calves,           “ horses ” includes donkeys and mules,           “ farmed
deer ” means deer of any species which are on agricultural land enclosed by a
deer-proof barrier and kept by way of business for the primary purpose of meat
production,           “ enclosed game birds ” means any pheasant, partridge,
grouse (or moor game), black (or heath) game or ptarmigan that are being kept
enclosed prior to their release for sporting purposes,           “ poultry ”
means domestic fowls, turkeys, geese or ducks,                 “ premises ”
has the meaning given by  paragraph 1  of the schedule,           “ relevant
authority ” has the meaning given by  section 4 (6) ,           “ responsible
for ”, in relation to a dog, is to be construed in accordance with  section 2
(6) ,           “ seizure order ” has the meaning given by  section 23 (1) ,
“ under control ”, in relation to a dog, means that a person who is
responsible for the dog is able to direct the dog’s activity by physical
contact or verbal or audible command,           “ veterinary surgeon ” means a
person registered in the register of veterinary surgeons, or the supplementary
veterinary register, kept under the Veterinary Surgeons Act 1966,           “
wild mammal ” has the meaning given by  section 1 (3) ,           “ woodland ”
means land on which trees are grown, whether or not commercially, and includes
any such trees and any vegetation planted or growing naturally among such
trees on that land.

#### Repeal of the Protection of Wild Mammals (Scotland) Act 2002 and consequential modifications

28

28.1

The Protection of Wild Mammals (Scotland) Act 2002 is repealed.

28.2

In section 17(4) of the Animals and Wildlife (Penalties, Protections and
Powers) (Scotland) Act 2020 (information sharing report) after paragraph (h)
insert—

28.2.i

the Hunting with Dogs (Scotland) Act 2023.

.

#### Crown application: criminal offences

29

29.1

Nothing in this Act makes the Crown criminally liable.

29.2

The Court of Session may, on an application by the Lord Advocate, declare
unlawful any act or omission for which the Crown would be criminally liable if
it were not for subsection (1).

29.3

Subsection (1) does not affect the criminal liability of persons in the
service of the Crown.

#### Crown application: powers of entry

30

30.1

A power of entry conferred by or under this Act is exercisable in relation to
Crown land specified in column 1 of the following table only with the consent
of the person specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 of the table
(the “appropriate authority”).

    Crown land Appropriate authority   Land an interest in which belongs to
His Majesty in right of the Crown and which forms part of the Crown Estate
(that is, the property, rights and interests under the management of the Crown
Estate Commissioners) The Crown Estate Commissioners Land an interest in which
belongs to His Majesty in right of the Crown and which forms part of the
Scottish Crown Estate The person managing the land Land an interest in which
belongs to His Majesty in right of the Crown other than land forming part of
the Crown Estate or the Scottish Crown Estate The office-holder in the
Scottish Administration or, as the case may be, the Government department
managing the land Land an interest in which belongs to His Majesty in right of
His private estates The person appointed by His Majesty in writing under the
Royal Sign Manual or, if no such appointment is made, the Scottish Ministers
Land an interest in which belongs to an office-holder in the Scottish
Administration The office-holder in the Scottish Administration Land an
interest in which belongs to a Government department The Government department
Land an interest in which is held in trust for His Majesty by an office-holder
in the Scottish Administration for the purposes of the Scottish Administration
The office-holder in the Scottish Administration Land an interest in which is
held in trust for His Majesty for the purposes of a Government department The
Government department

30.2

In subsection (1)—

30.2.a

the reference to His Majesty’s private estates is to be construed in
accordance with section 1 of the Crown Private Estates Act 1862,

30.2.b

“ Government department ” means a department of the Government of the United
Kingdom,

30.2.c

“ Scottish Crown Estate ” means the property, rights and interests to which
section 90B(5) of the Scotland Act 1998 applies.

30.3

It is for the Scottish Ministers to determine any question that arises as to
who in accordance with subsection (1) is the appropriate authority in relation
to any land, and their decision is final.

#### Commencement

31

31.1

This section and sections  26  and  32  come into force on the day after Royal
Assent.

31.2

The other provisions of this Act come into force on such day as the Scottish
Ministers may by regulations appoint.

31.3

Regulations under subsection (2) may—

31.3.a

include transitional, transitory or saving provision,

31.3.b

make different provision for different purposes.

#### Short title

32

The short title of this Act is the Hunting with Dogs (Scotland) Act 2023.

Enforcement powers

(introduced by  section 18 )

##### Interpretation

1

In this schedule—

“ domestic premises ”— means premises, or a part of premises, used (or used
for the time being) exclusively as a dwelling-house, and includes any land or
structure— belonging to or usually enjoyed with the dwelling-house, or
adjacent to and for the time being enjoyed with the dwelling-house, “ premises
” includes— land, any other place, including— a vehicle or vessel, a tent or
other moveable structure, “ relevant offence ” means— an offence under
section 1 (1) , an offence under  section 2 (1)  or  (2) , an offence under
section 12 (1) , an offence under  section 14 (1) ,  (3)  or  (4) , an offence
under  section 22 (10) , an offence under  section 25 (8) , “ relevant power ”
means a power conferred on a constable by— a provision of this schedule, or a
warrant granted under a provision of this schedule.

##### Entry and associated powers

2

A constable may enter any premises (other than domestic premises)—

2.a

if there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a relevant offence has
been or is being committed at the premises, and

2.b

for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not a relevant offence has been or
is being committed at the premises.

3

3.1

A sheriff or justice of the peace may grant a warrant under this sub-paragraph
if satisfied—

3.1.a

that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting—

3.1.a.i

that a relevant offence has been or is being committed at any premises, or

3.1.a.ii

that evidence of the commission of, or participation in, a relevant offence is
to be found at any premises, and

3.1.b

that  sub-paragraph (2)  or  (3)  applies.

3.2

This sub-paragraph applies if—

3.2.a

admission to the premises has been refused or such a refusal may reasonably be
expected, and

3.2.b

either—

3.2.b.i

notice of the intention to seek a warrant has been given to the occupier of
the premises, or

3.2.b.ii

the giving of such notice would frustrate the purpose for which the warrant is
sought.

3.3

This sub-paragraph applies if—

3.3.a

the premises are unoccupied, or

3.3.b

the occupier is temporarily absent.

4

A warrant under paragraph 3(1) authorises a constable—

4.a

to enter the premises,

4.b

to search for, examine and seize any animal (including the carcase of an
animal), vehicle, equipment, document or other thing tending to provide
evidence of the commission of, or participation in, a relevant offence.

5

5.1

A constable may exercise the powers in  sub-paragraph (2)  without a warrant
under  paragraph 3 (1)  if—

5.1.a

it appears to the constable that any delay would frustrate the purpose for
which the powers are to be exercised, and

5.1.b

the premises are not domestic premises.

5.2

The powers are—

5.2.a

to enter premises,

5.2.b

to search for, examine and seize any animal (including the carcase of an
animal), vehicle, equipment, document or other thing tending to provide
evidence of the commission of, or participation in, a relevant offence.

6

The power to seize an animal or vehicle under  paragraph 4 (b)  or  5 (2) (b)
may only be exercised—

6.a

where the animal or vehicle is in the possession or control of a person who
the constable has reasonable grounds for suspecting has committed or is
committing a relevant offence, and

6.b

where the constable considers it appropriate to seize the animal or vehicle
for the purposes of—

6.b.i

enabling the animal or vehicle to be used in proceedings for a relevant
offence, or

6.b.ii

enabling the animal or vehicle to be forfeited in accordance with Part 2 of
the Proceeds of Crime (Scotland) Act 1995.

7

7.1

A thing seized in exercise of the power in  paragraph 4 (b)  or  5 (2) (b)
must be returned when retention of it is no longer justified for the purposes
of—

7.1.a

enabling it to be used in proceedings for a relevant offence, or

7.1.b

enabling it to be forfeited in accordance with Part 2 of the Proceeds of Crime
(Scotland) Act 1995.

7.2

Sub-paragraph  (1)  does not apply to perishable things which no longer have
any commercial value.

##### Stopping and detaining vehicles or vessels

8

8.1

A constable in uniform may stop and detain a vehicle or vessel for the purpose
of the exercise of a relevant power.

8.2

A vehicle or vessel may be detained under  sub-paragraph (1)  for so long as
it is reasonably required for the purpose of the exercise of the power
concerned.

8.3

The power concerned may be exercised either at the place where the vehicle or
vessel was first detained or nearby.

8.4

In this paragraph, “ vehicle ” includes caravan (within the meaning of section
29(1) of the Caravan Sites and Control of Development Act 1960).

##### Entry and associated powers: supplementary

9

A warrant granted under  paragraph 3 (1)  expires when it is no longer
required for the purpose for which it is granted.

10

A constable exercising a relevant power must do so at a reasonable time unless
it appears to the constable that the purpose of exercising the power would be
frustrated by exercising it at such a time.

11

A constable may, if necessary, use reasonable force when exercising a relevant
power.

12

A constable exercising a relevant power must produce evidence of the
constable’s authority if asked to do so.

13

13.1

A relevant power includes power to take onto premises—

13.1.a

such persons for assistance as are required for the purpose of exercising the
power, and

13.1.b

such equipment as is required for that purpose.

13.2

A relevant power includes power to do or secure the doing of any of the
following—

13.2.a

the carrying out of tests on, and taking of samples from—

13.2.a.i

an animal (including the carcase of an animal),

13.2.a.ii

any equipment, substance or thing,

13.2.b

the identifying of an animal by use of a mark, microchip or any other method
of identification.

14

14.1

A person mentioned in  sub-paragraph (2)  must—

14.1.a

comply with any reasonable direction made by a constable exercising a relevant
power, and

14.1.b

in particular, give the constable such information and assistance as the
constable may reasonably require.

14.2

The persons are—

14.2.a

the occupier of premises in relation to which a relevant power is being
exercised,

14.2.b

a person who, in relation to an animal at the premises, appears—

14.2.b.i

to be the owner of the animal,

14.2.b.ii

to be responsible for the animal on a temporary or permanent basis,

14.2.b.iii

to be in charge of the animal,

14.2.b.iv

to have actual care and control of a person under the age of 16 years who is
responsible for the animal,

14.2.c

a person who appears to be under the direction or control of a person
mentioned in  paragraph (a)  or  (b) .

15

A constable exercising a relevant power in relation to unoccupied premises
must leave the premises as effectively secured against entry as the constable
found them.

##### Offences

16

16.1

A person commits an offence if the person contravenes  paragraph 14 (1)
without reasonable excuse.

16.2

A person commits an offence if the person intentionally obstructs a constable
in the exercise of a relevant power.

16.3

A person who commits an offence under  sub-paragraph (1)  or  (2)  is liable
on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale.

##### Powers of constables under this schedule

17

The powers conferred on constables by this schedule do not affect any powers
conferred on constables apart from this schedule.

