Title: Illegal Migration Act 2023
Date: 2024-08-06
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/37

## Illegal Migration Act 2023

                                                   B e it enacted  by the
King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords
Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and
by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Introduction

#### Introduction

1

1.1

The purpose of this Act is to prevent and deter unlawful migration, and in
particular migration by unsafe and illegal routes, by requiring the removal
from the United Kingdom of certain persons who enter or arrive in the United
Kingdom in breach of immigration control.

1.2

To advance that purpose, this Act—

1.2.a

places a duty on the Secretary of State to make arrangements for the removal
of certain persons who enter or arrive in the United Kingdom in breach of
immigration control as soon as is reasonably practicable after their entry or
arrival, subject only to the exceptions specified by or under this Act;

1.2.b

provides for protection claims and certain human rights claims made by persons
who meet the conditions for removal under this Act to be inadmissible;

1.2.c

provides for the detention of persons who are subject to removal under this
Act;

1.2.d

provides for protections and entitlements to assistance and support which are
available to victims of modern slavery or human trafficking not to apply to
persons who are subject to removal under this Act;

1.2.e

prevents persons who meet the conditions for removal under this Act from being
given leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom;

1.2.f

prevents persons who meet the conditions for removal under this Act from
settling in the United Kingdom or obtaining citizenship;

1.2.g

provides a procedure for persons who are subject to removal under this Act to
challenge their removal by means of a suspensive claim (as defined in section
38 );

1.2.h

has the effect that all other legal challenges to the removal of persons under
this Act do not suspend the duty to make arrangements for their removal.

1.3

Accordingly, and so far as it is possible to do so, provision made by or by
virtue of this Act must be read and given effect so as to achieve the purpose
mentioned in subsection  (1) .

1.4

In addition, this Act makes provision—

1.4.a

about the period for which persons may be detained in immigration detention;

1.4.b

for protections that apply to victims of modern slavery or human trafficking
not to apply to persons who are a threat to public order or who have claimed
to be victims in bad faith unless compelling circumstances apply;

1.4.c

for persons who have been sentenced to a period of imprisonment for an offence
or who are liable to deportation to be deemed to be a threat to public order
for the purposes of the disapplication of those protections;

1.4.d

for asylum claims and human rights claims made by nationals of certain safe
States to be inadmissible;

1.4.e

for the maximum number of persons who may enter the United Kingdom annually
using safe and legal routes to be specified in regulations which are subject
to approval by Parliament;

1.4.f

for certain kinds of behaviour relating to an identity document or electronic
information by a person who makes an asylum claim or a human rights claim to
be taken into account as damaging the claimant’s credibility.

1.5

Section 3 of the Human Rights Act 1998 (interpretation of legislation) does
not apply in relation to provision made by or by virtue of this Act.

### Duty to make arrangements for removal

#### Duty to make arrangements for removal

2

2.1

The Secretary of State must make arrangements for the removal of a person from
the United Kingdom if the person meets the following four conditions.

2.2

The first condition is that—

2.2.a

the person requires leave to enter the United Kingdom, but has entered the
United Kingdom—

2.2.a.i

without leave to enter, or

2.2.a.ii

with leave to enter that was obtained by means which included deception by any
person,

2.2.b

the person has entered the United Kingdom in breach of a deportation order,

2.2.c

the person has entered or arrived in the United Kingdom at a time when they
were an excluded person within the meaning of section 8B of the Immigration
Act 1971 (persons excluded from the United Kingdom under certain instruments)
and—

2.2.c.i

subsection (5A) of that section (exceptions to section 8B) does not apply to
the person, and

2.2.c.ii

an exception created under, or direction given by virtue of, section 15(4) of
the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018 (power to create exceptions
to section 8B) does not apply to the person,

2.2.d

the person requires entry clearance under the immigration rules, but has
arrived in the United Kingdom without a valid entry clearance, or

2.2.e

the person is required under immigration rules not to travel to the United
Kingdom without an electronic travel authorisation that is valid for that
person’s journey to the United Kingdom, but has arrived in the United Kingdom
without such an electronic travel authorisation.

2.3

The second condition is that the person entered or arrived in the United
Kingdom as mentioned in subsection  (2)  on or after the day on which this Act
is passed.

2.4

The third condition is that, in entering or arriving as mentioned in
subsection  (2) , the person did not come directly to the United Kingdom from
a country in which the person’s life and liberty were threatened by reason of
their race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or
political opinion.

2.5

For the purposes of subsection  (4)  a person is not to be taken to have come
directly to the United Kingdom from a country in which their life and liberty
were threatened as mentioned in that subsection if, in coming from such a
country, they passed through or stopped in another country outside the United
Kingdom where their life and liberty were not so threatened.

2.6

The fourth condition is that the person requires leave to enter or remain in
the United Kingdom but does not have it.

2.7

Any limited leave to enter or remain given under the immigration rules to a
person within section  4 (1)  (unaccompanied children) is to be disregarded in
determining whether the person meets the condition in subsection  (6) .

2.8

In this section—

“ country ” includes territory; “ deportation order ” means an order under
section 5 of the Immigration Act 1971; “ electronic travel authorisation ”
means an authorisation in electronic form to travel to the United Kingdom; “
entry clearance ” has the meaning given by section 33(1) of the Immigration
Act 1971.

2.9

In this Act “ immigration rules ” means rules under section 3(2) of the
Immigration Act 1971.

2.10

Section 11(1) of the Immigration Act 1971 (person deemed not to enter the
United Kingdom before disembarkation, while in controlled area or while under
immigration control) applies for the purposes of this section as it applies
for the purposes of that Act.

2.11

The only circumstances in which the duty in subsection  (1)  does not apply to
a person who meets the four conditions in this section are where—

2.11.a

section  4 (1)  (unaccompanied children) applies to the person,

2.11.b

regulations under section  4 (7)  (other exceptions) apply to the person,

2.11.c

a Minister of the Crown has made a determination under section  55 (2)
(interim measures of the European Court of Human Rights) in relation to the
person, or

2.11.d

section 61 or 62 of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 (victims of slavery
and human trafficking) apply in relation to the person, so far as they have
effect by virtue of section  22  of this Act (modern slavery provisions
relating to removal and leave).

#### Amendment of date in section 

3

3.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the date which is for the time
being specified in—

3.1.a

section  2 (3)  (duty to remove: date of entry or arrival in the United
Kingdom);

3.1.b

section  5 (7) (a)  (application to claims made on or after passing of this
Act);

3.1.c

section  6 (12) (a)  or  (14) (a)  (application to claims made on or after
passing of this Act).

3.2

Regulations under subsection (1) may make consequential amendments to this Act
or any other enactment.

3.3

Provision made by virtue of subsection (2) may, in particular, amend this Act
or any other enactment to modify the operation of a provision which would
otherwise apply to a person who meets, or has ever met, the condition in
section  2 (3)  (including to enable that provision to operate as if an
amendment to section  2 (3)  had not been made).

3.4

An amendment made by virtue of subsection (1) may have the effect that a
provision mentioned in that subsection specifies—

3.4.a

a particular calendar date, or

3.4.b

a date which is determined by the occurrence of a particular event (for
example the coming into force of a provision of this Act, generally or for a
particular purpose).

3.5

But such an amendment may not have the effect that the provision specifies a
date which is earlier than the date specified before the amendment was made.

#### Unaccompanied children and power to provide for exceptions

4

4.1

The duty in section  2 (1)  does not require the Secretary of State to make
arrangements for the removal of a person from the United Kingdom at a time
when the person is an unaccompanied child.

4.2

The Secretary of State may make arrangements for the removal of a person from
the United Kingdom at a time when the person is an unaccompanied child.

4.3

The power in subsection  (2)  may be exercised only—

4.3.a

where the person is to be removed for the purposes of reunion with the
person’s parent;

4.3.b

where the person is to be removed to a country listed in  section 80AA (1)  of
the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (safe States for the purposes
of section 80A of that Act) which is—

4.3.b.i

a country of which the person is a national, or

4.3.b.ii

a country in which the person has obtained a passport or other document of
identity;

4.3.c

where the person has not made a protection claim or a human rights claim and
the person is to be removed to—

4.3.c.i

a country of which the person is a national,

4.3.c.ii

a country or territory in which the person has obtained a passport or other
document of identity, or

4.3.c.iii

a country or territory in which the person embarked for the United Kingdom;

4.3.d

in such other circumstances as may be specified in regulations made by the
Secretary of State.

4.4

Regulations under subsection  (3) (d)  may confer a discretion on the
Secretary of State.

4.5

For the purposes of this Act (other than  sections 16  and  17 ) a person (“ C
”) is an “unaccompanied child” if—

4.5.a

C meets the four conditions in section  2 ,

4.5.b

C is under the age of 18, and

4.5.c

at the relevant time no individual (whether or not a parent of C) who was aged
18 or over had care of C.

4.6

In subsection  (5)  “ the relevant time ” means the time of C’s entry or
arrival in the United Kingdom by virtue of which the duty in section  2 (1)
would apply in relation to C apart from this section.

4.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for other exceptions
from the duty in section  2 (1) .

4.8

Regulations under subsection  (7)  may make provision—

4.8.a

for this Act or any other enactment to have effect with modifications, in
relation to a person to whom an exception applies, in consequence of the
application of the exception to that person;

4.8.b

for an exception, or for any provision made by virtue of  paragraph (a) , to
be treated as having had effect from a time before the coming into force of
the regulations.

4.9

Regulations made by virtue of subsection  (8) (a) may, in particular, disapply
any provision of this Act or any other enactment in relation to a person to
whom an exception applies.

4.10

In subsections  (8)  and  (9)  “ enactment ” includes—

4.10.a

an enactment contained in subordinate legislation within the meaning of the
Interpretation Act 1978;

4.10.b

an enactment contained in, or in an instrument made under, an Act of the
Scottish Parliament;

4.10.c

an enactment contained in, or in an instrument made under, a Measure or Act of
Senedd Cymru;

4.10.d

an enactment contained in, or in an instrument made under, Northern Ireland
legislation.

4.11

A statutory instrument containing regulations under subsection  (7)  must be
laid before Parliament after being made.

4.12

Regulations contained in a statutory instrument laid before Parliament under
subsection  (11)  cease to have effect at the end of the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the instrument is made unless, during that
period, the instrument is approved by a resolution of each House of
Parliament.

4.13

In calculating the period of 28 days, no account is to be taken of any whole
days that fall within a period during which—

4.13.a

Parliament is dissolved or prorogued, or

4.13.b

either House of Parliament is adjourned for more than four days.

4.14

If regulations cease to have effect as a result of subsection  (12)  that does
not—

4.14.a

affect the validity of anything previously done under the regulations, or

4.14.b

prevent the making of new regulations.

4.15

In this Act—

“ human rights claim ” has the meaning given by section 113(1) of the
Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002; “ national ” includes citizen; “
protection claim ” has the meaning given by section 82(2) of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002.

#### Disregard of certain claims, applications etc

5

5.1

The duty in section  2 (1)  or the power in section  4 (2)  applies in
relation to a person who meets the four conditions in section  2  regardless
of whether—

5.1.a

the person makes a protection claim,

5.1.b

the person makes a human rights claim,

5.1.c

the person claims to be a victim of slavery or a victim of human trafficking
as defined by regulations made by the Secretary of State under section 69 of
the Nationality and Borders Act 2022, or

5.1.d

the person makes an application for judicial review in relation to their
removal from the United Kingdom under this Act.

5.2

If a person who meets the four conditions in  section 2  makes a protection
claim, or a human rights claim within subsection  (6) , the Secretary of State
must declare the claim inadmissible (and see section  41 (4)  in relation to
human rights claims not within subsection  (6) ).

5.3

A protection claim or a human rights claim declared inadmissible under
subsection  (2)  cannot be considered under the immigration rules.

5.4

A declaration under subsection  (2)  that a protection claim or a human rights
claim is inadmissible is not a decision to refuse the claim and, accordingly,
no right of appeal under section 82(1)(a) or (b) of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (appeal against refusal of protection claim or
human rights claim) arises.

5.5

A human rights claim is within this subsection if it is a claim that removal
of a person from the United Kingdom to—

5.5.a

a country of which the person is a national, or

5.5.b

a country or territory in which the person has obtained a passport or other
document of identity,

would be unlawful under section 6 of the Human Rights Act 1998 (public
authority not to act contrary to Convention).

5.6

In this Act “ application for judicial review ” means—

5.6.a

in England and Wales and Northern Ireland, an application to the High Court
for judicial review,

5.6.b

in Scotland, an application to the supervisory jurisdiction of the Court of
Session, and

5.6.c

any other application to a court or tribunal which is required by an enactment
to be determined by applying the principles that would be applied by a court
on an application within paragraph (a) or (b).

5.7

In this section, references to a claim include a claim—

5.7.a

that was made on or after the day on which this Act is passed, and

5.7.b

that has not been decided by the Secretary of State on the date on which this
section comes into force.

#### Removal for the purposes of section 

6

6.1

Where the Secretary of State is required by section  2 (1)  to make
arrangements for the removal of a person from the United Kingdom, the
Secretary of State must ensure that the arrangements are made—

6.1.a

as soon as is reasonably practicable after the person’s entry or arrival in
the United Kingdom, or

6.1.b

where the person has ceased to be an unaccompanied child, as soon as is
reasonably practicable after the person has ceased to be an unaccompanied
child.

6.2

The following provisions of this section apply where—

6.2.a

the Secretary of State is required by section  2 (1)  to make arrangements for
the removal of a person (“ P ”) from the United Kingdom, or

6.2.b

the Secretary of State may make arrangements for the removal of a person (“ P
”) from the United Kingdom under section  4 (2) .

6.3

Subject to section  4 (3) (c)  (removal of certain unaccompanied children) and
to the following provisions of this section, P may be removed to—

6.3.a

a country of which P is a national,

6.3.b

a country or territory in which P has obtained a passport or other document of
identity,

6.3.c

a country or territory in which P embarked for the United Kingdom, or

6.3.d

a country or territory to which there is reason to believe P will be admitted.

6.4

If P is a national of a country listed in section 80AA(1) of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (inadmissibility of certain asylum and human
rights claims: safe States), or has obtained a passport or other document of
identity in such a country, P may not be removed to a country or territory
within subsection  (3) (a)  or  (b)  if—

6.4.a

P makes a protection claim or a human rights claim, and

6.4.b

the Secretary of State considers that there are exceptional circumstances
which prevent P’s removal to that country or territory.

6.5

For the purposes of subsection  (4) , exceptional circumstances include—

6.5.a

in a case where P is a national of a country that is a signatory to the Human
Rights Convention, or has obtained a passport or other document of identity in
such a country, where that country is derogating from any of its obligations
under the Human Rights Convention in accordance with Article 15 of the
Convention;

6.5.b

in a case where P is a national of a member State, or has obtained a passport
or other document of identity in a member State, where the member State is the
subject of a proposal initiated in accordance with the procedure referred to
in Article 7(1) of the Treaty on European Union and—

6.5.b.i

the proposal has yet to be determined by the Council of the European Union or
(as the case may be) the European Council,

6.5.b.ii

the Council of the European Union has determined, in accordance with Article
7(1), that there is a clear risk of a serious breach by the member State of
the values referred to in Article 2 of the Treaty, or

6.5.b.iii

the European Council has determined, in accordance with Article 7(2), the
existence of a serious and persistent breach by the member State of the values
referred to in Article 2 of the Treaty.

6.6

Subsection  (7)  applies if—

6.6.a

P is a national of a country listed in section 80AA(1) of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002, or has obtained a passport or other document
of identity in such a country, and

6.6.b

P makes a protection claim or a human rights claim.

6.7

P may be removed to a country or territory within subsection  (3) (c)  or  (d)
only if it is listed in Schedule  1 .

6.8

Subsection  (9)  applies if—

6.8.a

P is not a national of a country listed in section 80AA(1) of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002, and has not obtained a passport or other
document of identity in such a country, and

6.8.b

P makes a protection claim or a human rights claim.

6.9

P may not be removed to a country or territory within subsection  (3) (a)  or
(b) ; and P may be removed to a country or territory within subsection  (3)
(c)  or  (d)  only if it is listed in Schedule  1 .

6.10

Where a country or territory is listed in Schedule  1  in respect of a
description of person, subsection  (7)  or  (9)  has effect in relation to P
and that country or territory only if the Secretary of State is satisfied that
P is within that description.

6.11

Where a part of a country or territory is listed in Schedule  1 , references
to a country or territory in subsections  (7) ,  (9)  and  (10)  have effect
in relation to that country or territory as if they were references to that
part.

6.12

In this section references to a claim include a claim—

6.12.a

that was made on or after the day on which this Act is passed, and

6.12.b

that has not been decided by the Secretary of State on the date on which this
section comes into force.

6.13

In this Act “ the Human Rights Convention ” means the Convention for the
Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, agreed by the Council of
Europe at Rome on 4 November 1950, as it has effect for the time being in
relation to the United Kingdom.

6.14

Where the Secretary of State exercises the power in subsection (2) of section
80AA of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 to amend the list of
States in subsection (1) of that section so as to add a State, subsections
(4) ,  (6)  and  (7)  apply to a person who is a national of that State, or
who has obtained a passport or other document of identity in that State, if—

6.14.a

they have made a protection claim or a human rights claim on or after the day
on which this Act is passed, and

6.14.b

the claim has not been decided by the Secretary of State on the date on which
the amendment comes into force.

#### Powers to amend Schedule 

7

7.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend Schedule  1  to add a country
or territory, or part of a country or territory, if satisfied that—

7.1.a

there is in general in that country or territory, or part, no serious risk of
persecution, and

7.1.b

removal of persons to that country or territory, or part, pursuant to the duty
in section  2 (1)  will not in general contravene the United Kingdom’s
obligations under the Human Rights Convention.

7.2

If the Secretary of State is satisfied that the statements in subsection  (1)
(a)  and  (b)  are true of a country or territory, or part of a country or
territory, in relation to a description of person, regulations under
subsection  (1)  may add the country or territory or part to Schedule  1  in
respect of that description of person.

7.3

A description for the purposes of subsection  (2)  may refer to—

7.3.a

sex,

7.3.b

language,

7.3.c

race,

7.3.d

religion,

7.3.e

nationality,

7.3.f

membership of a social or other group,

7.3.g

political opinion, or

7.3.h

any other attribute or circumstance that the Secretary of State thinks
appropriate.

7.4

In deciding whether the statements in subsection  (1) (a)  and  (b)  are true
of a country or territory, or part of a country or territory, the Secretary of
State—

7.4.a

must have regard to all the circumstances of the country or territory, or part
(including its laws and how they are applied), and

7.4.b

must have regard to information from any appropriate source (including member
States and international organisations).

7.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend Schedule  1  to omit a country
or territory, or part of a country or territory; and the omission may—

7.5.a

be general, or

7.5.b

have the effect that the country or territory, or part, remains listed in
Schedule  1  in respect of a description of person.

#### Further provisions about removal

8

8.1

This section  applies where—

8.1.a

the Secretary of State is required by section  2 (1)  to make arrangements for
the removal of a person (“ P ”) from the United Kingdom, or

8.1.b

the Secretary of State may make arrangements for the removal of a person (“ P
”) from the United Kingdom under section  4 (2) .

8.2

P may not be removed from the United Kingdom unless—

8.2.a

the Secretary of State or an immigration officer has given a notice in writing
to P stating—

8.2.a.i

that P is to be removed, and

8.2.a.ii

the country or territory to which P is to be removed, and

8.2.b

the condition in subsection  (3)  is met.

8.3

The condition in  this subsection  is that—

8.3.a

the claim period for any suspensive claim that may be made by P has expired,
or

8.3.b

P has notified the Secretary of State (orally or in writing) that P does not
intend to make a suspensive claim.

8.4

The giving of a notification by P under subsection  (3) (b)  does not affect
any ability of P to make a suspensive claim before P is removed from the
United Kingdom under this Act (and accordingly if P makes such a claim,
sections  38  to  53  apply in relation to the claim).

8.5

But where P has been removed from the United Kingdom under this Act following
such a notification, P may not make a suspensive claim (regardless of whether
the claim period has expired).

8.6

A notice under subsection  (2) (a)  must—

8.6.a

contain details of any right P has to make a suspensive claim under this Act,
and

8.6.b

set out the claim period for any such suspensive claim.

8.7

In  this section —

“ claim period ”— in relation to a suspensive claim within section  38 (2) (a)
(serious harm suspensive claims), has the meaning given by section  42 (7) ,
and in relation to a suspensive claim within section  38 (2) (b)  (removal
conditions suspensive claims), has the meaning given by section  43 (7) ; “
suspensive claim ” has the meaning given by section  38  (suspensive claims:
interpretation).

8.8

Subject to section  6  (removal for the purposes of section  2  or  4 ), the
Secretary of State or an immigration officer may give directions to the owners
or agents of a ship, aircraft, train or vehicle requiring them to make
arrangements for P’s removal from the United Kingdom in any ship, aircraft,
train or vehicle specified or indicated in the direction to a country or
territory so specified.

8.9

Where the Secretary of State or an immigration officer may give directions for
P’s removal in accordance with subsection  (8)  the Secretary of State or an
immigration officer may instead give directions for P’s removal in accordance
with arrangements to be made by the Secretary of State or an immigration
officer to any country or territory to which P could be removed under
subsection  (8) .

8.10

The costs of complying with any directions given under  this section  must be
defrayed by the Secretary of State.

8.11

P may be placed, under the authority of an immigration officer or the
Secretary of State, on board any ship, aircraft, train or vehicle in which P
is to be removed in accordance with directions under this section.

8.12

Where subsection  (11)  applies, the captain of the ship or aircraft, the
train manager of the train or the driver of the vehicle—

8.12.a

must, if so required by an immigration officer or the Secretary of State,
prevent P from disembarking in the United Kingdom or before the directions for
P’s removal have been fulfilled, and

8.12.b

may for that purpose detain P in custody on board the ship, aircraft, train or
vehicle.

8.13

A person is deemed to be in legal custody at any time when the person is
detained under subsection  (12) (b) .

8.14

Paragraph 17A of Schedule 2 to the Immigration Act 1971 (period of detention)
applies in relation to detention under subsection  (12) (b)  on board a ship,
aircraft, train or vehicle as it applies in relation to detention on board a
ship or aircraft under paragraph 16(4) of that Schedule.

8.15

In  this section  a reference to an “ owner ” of a ship, aircraft, train or
vehicle includes a reference to any person who jointly owns it.

8.16

Where—

8.16.a

P is to be removed to a country or territory, and

8.16.b

only part of that country or territory is listed in  Schedule 1 ,

references in this section to the country or territory are to that part.

8.17

In this Act “ immigration officer ” means a person appointed by the Secretary
of State as an immigration officer under paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the
Immigration Act 1971.

#### Support where asylum claim inadmissible

9

9.1

The Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 is amended in accordance with subsections
(2)  and  (3) .

9.2

If paragraph 1 of Schedule 11 to the Immigration Act 2016, which repeals
section 4 of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999, is not yet in force on the
day this section comes into force, in subsection (2)(b) of that section, after
“the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002” insert  “and section  5  of
the Illegal Migration Act 2023” .

9.3

In section 94 (interpretation of Part 6: support for asylum-seekers etc)—

9.3.a

in subsection (4A), after “the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002”
insert  “or section  5  of the Illegal Migration Act 2023” ,

9.3.b

in subsection (4B), for “of that Act” substitute  “of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002” , and

9.3.c

in subsection (4C), for “of that Act” substitute  “of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 or under section  5  of the Illegal Migration
Act 2023” .

9.4

The Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 is amended as follows.

9.5

In section 18(1ZA) (asylum seeker: definition), after “section 80A or 80B”
insert  “of this Act or section  5  of the Illegal Migration Act 2023” .

9.6

In section 21 (sections 17 to 20: supplementary), in subsection (3)(a), after
“section 80A or 80B” insert  “of this Act or section  5  of the Illegal
Migration Act 2023” .

9.7

In paragraph 17(2A) of Schedule 3 (withholding and withdrawal of support:
interpretation), after “section 80A or 80B” insert  “of this Act or section  5
of the Illegal Migration Act 2023” .

#### Other consequential amendments relating to removal

10

10.1

The Immigration Act 1971 is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)  to
(4) .

10.2

In section 24(1) (illegal entry and similar offences), after paragraph (f)
insert—

10.2.fa

if the person disembarks in the United Kingdom from a ship, aircraft, train or
vehicle after being placed on board under section  8 (11)  of the Illegal
Migration Act 2023 with a view to the person’s removal from the United
Kingdom;

.

10.3

In section  27 (1)  (offences by persons connected with ships or aircraft)—

10.3.a

after paragraph (a) insert—

10.3.a.aa

if, being the captain of a ship or aircraft, the train manager of a train or
the driver of a vehicle, the person knowingly permits a person to disembark in
the United Kingdom when required under section  8 (12) (a)  of the Illegal
Migration Act 2023 to prevent it;

, and

10.3.b

after paragraph (b) insert—

10.3.b.ba

if, as owner or agent of a ship, aircraft, train or vehicle, the person fails,
without reasonable excuse, to make arrangements for or in connection with the
removal of a person from the United Kingdom when required to do so by
directions given under section  8 (8)  or  (9)  of the Illegal Migration Act
2023;

.

10.4

In Schedule 2 (administrative provisions as to control on entry etc), after
paragraph 11 insert—

10.4.11A

Paragraphs 8 to 10 do not apply to a person if—

10.4.11A.a

the Secretary of State is required by section  2 (1)  of the Illegal Migration
Act 2023 to make arrangements for the removal of the person from the United
Kingdom, or

10.4.11A.b

the Secretary of State may make arrangements for the removal of the person
from the United Kingdom under section  4 (2)  of that Act,

but see section  8  of that Act.

10.5

The Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 is amended in accordance with subsections
(6)  and  (7) .

10.6

In section 10 (removal of persons unlawfully in the United Kingdom), after
subsection (11) insert—

10.6.12

This section does not apply to a person if—

10.6.12.a

the Secretary of State is required by section  2 (1)  of the Illegal Migration
Act 2023 to make arrangements for the removal of the person from the United
Kingdom, or

10.6.12.b

the Secretary of State may make arrangements for the removal of the person
from the United Kingdom under section  4 (2)  of that Act,

but see section  8  of that Act.

10.7

In section 156(1)(b) (arrangements for the provision of escorts and custody),
for “or this Act” substitute  “, this Act or the Illegal Migration Act 2023” .

10.8

In section 80A of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (claims by
nationals of listed safe States), after subsection (5) insert—

10.8.5A

This section does not apply to a person who meets the four conditions in
section  2  of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 (duty to make arrangements for
removal).

10.9

In Schedule 3 to the Asylum and Immigration (Treatment of Claimants, etc) Act
2004 (removal of asylum seeker to safe country)—

10.9.a

in paragraph 3, after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

10.9.a.3

This paragraph does not apply for the purposes of determining whether a person
who has made an asylum claim or a human rights claim may be removed from the
United Kingdom to a State of which the person is not a national or citizen if—

10.9.a.3.a

the Secretary of State is required by section  2 (1)  of the Illegal Migration
Act 2023 to make arrangements for the removal of the person from the United
Kingdom, or

10.9.a.3.b

the Secretary of State may make arrangements for the removal of the person
from the United Kingdom under section  4 (2)  of that Act,

but see section  6  of that Act.

;

10.9.b

in paragraph 8, after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

10.9.b.3

This paragraph does not apply for the purposes of determining whether a person
who has made an asylum claim may be removed from the United Kingdom to a State
of which the person is not a national or citizen if—

10.9.b.3.a

the Secretary of State is required by section  2 (1)  of the Illegal Migration
Act 2023 to make arrangements for the removal of the person from the United
Kingdom, or

10.9.b.3.b

the Secretary of State may make arrangements for the removal of the person
from the United Kingdom under section  4 (2)  of that Act,

but see section  6  of that Act.

;

10.9.c

in paragraph 13, after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

10.9.c.3

This paragraph does not apply for the purposes of determining whether a person
who has made an asylum claim may be removed from the United Kingdom to a State
of which the person is not a national or citizen if—

10.9.c.3.a

the Secretary of State is required by section  2 (1)  of the Illegal Migration
Act 2023 to make arrangements for the removal of the person from the United
Kingdom, or

10.9.c.3.b

the Secretary of State may make arrangements for the removal of the person
from the United Kingdom under section  4 (2)  of that Act,

but see section  6  of that Act.

### Detention, bail etc

#### Powers of detention

11

11.1

Schedule 2 to the Immigration Act 1971 (administrative provisions as to
control on entry etc) is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)  and  (3)
.

11.2

After paragraph 16(2B), insert—

11.2.2C

A person may be detained under the authority of an immigration officer—

11.2.2C.a

if the immigration officer suspects that the person meets the four conditions
in section  2  of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 (conditions relating to
removal from the United Kingdom), pending a decision as to whether the
conditions are met;

11.2.2C.b

if the immigration officer suspects that the Secretary of State has a duty to
make arrangements for the removal of the person from the United Kingdom under
that section, pending a decision as to whether the duty applies;

11.2.2C.c

if the Secretary of State has such a duty, pending the person’s removal from
the United Kingdom in accordance with that section;

11.2.2C.d

if the person meets those four conditions but the Secretary of State does not
have such a duty by virtue of  subsection (1)  of  section 4  of that Act—

11.2.2C.d.i

pending a decision to give limited leave to enter or remain under the
immigration rules to the person for the purposes of that subsection,

11.2.2C.d.ii

pending a decision to give leave under section 8AA of the Immigration Act 1971
(discretionary leave for persons generally ineligible for leave etc),

11.2.2C.d.iii

pending a decision to give leave under section 65(2) of the Nationality and
Borders Act 2022 (leave to remain for victims of slavery or human
trafficking), or

11.2.2C.d.iv

pending a decision to remove the person under  subsection (2)  of  section 4
of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 (power to remove unaccompanied children),
and pending their removal in accordance with that subsection.

11.2.2D

But if the immigration officer is satisfied that a woman being detained under
sub-paragraph  (2C)  is pregnant, then the woman may not be detained under
that sub-paragraph for a period of—

11.2.2D.a

more than 72 hours from the relevant time, or

11.2.2D.b

more than seven days from the relevant time, in a case where the longer period
of detention is authorised personally by a Minister of the Crown (within the
meaning of the Ministers of the Crown Act 1975).

11.2.2E

A woman who has been released as a result of sub-paragraph  (2D)  may be
detained again under sub-paragraph  (2C)  in accordance with sub-paragraph
(2D) .

11.2.2F

Where a woman being detained under sub-paragraph  (2C)  has previously been
detained under section 62 (2A)  of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act
2002 and has not been released in between, the definition of “the relevant
time” in sub-paragraph  (2G)  is to be read as if paragraph (b) referred to
the time when the woman was first detained under sub-paragraph  (2C)  or
section 62 (2A)  of that Act.

11.2.2G

In sub-paragraphs  (2D)  to  (2F) —

“ the relevant time ” means the later of— the time at which the immigration
officer is first satisfied that the woman is pregnant, and the time at which
the detention under sub-paragraph  (2C)  begins; “ woman ” means a female of
any age.

11.2.2H

The powers in sub-paragraph  (2C)  may be exercised in respect of an
unaccompanied child only in the circumstances specified in regulations made by
the Secretary of State.

11.2.2I

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, specify time limits that apply in
relation to the detention of an unaccompanied child under sub-paragraph  (2C)
(d) (iv)  (detention of unaccompanied child in relation to removal).

11.2.2J

Regulations under sub-paragraph  (2H)  may confer a discretion on the
Secretary of State or an immigration officer.

11.2.2K

Regulations under sub-paragraph  (2H)  or  (2I) —

11.2.2K.a

may make different provision for different purposes;

11.2.2K.b

may make consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional or saving
provision;

11.2.2K.c

must be made by statutory instrument.

11.2.2L

A person who may be detained under sub-paragraph  (2C)  may no longer be
detained under sub-paragraph (1), (1A), (1B), (2), (3) or (4).

11.2.2M

A person (of any age) detained under sub-paragraph  (2C)  may be detained in
any place that the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

11.2.2N

A statutory instrument containing regulations under sub-paragraph  (2H)  or
(2I)  is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

11.2.2P

In sub-paragraphs  (2H)  and  (2I) , “ unaccompanied child ” has the same
meaning as in the Illegal Migration Act 2023 (see section  4  of that Act).

11.3

In the italic heading before paragraph 16, at the end insert  “, or for the
purposes of the Illegal Migration Act 2023” .

11.4

In section 147 of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 (interpretation of Part
8 of that Act), in the definition of “pre-departure accommodation”—

11.4.a

in the words before paragraph (a), omit “for a period of”;

11.4.b

at the beginning of paragraph (a), insert  “for a period of” ;

11.4.c

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (a);

11.4.d

at the beginning of paragraph (b), insert  “for a period of” ;

11.4.e

at the end of paragraph (b), insert

, or

11.4.e.c

for any period, where the detention is under—

11.4.e.c.i

paragraph 16 (2C)  of Schedule 2 to the Immigration Act 1971 (detention under
authority of immigration officer for the purposes of the Illegal Migration Act
2023), or

11.4.e.c.ii

section 62 (2A)  of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002
(detention under authority of Secretary of State for the purposes of the
Illegal Migration Act 2023);

.

11.5

Section 62 of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (detention by
Secretary of State) is amended in accordance with subsections  (6)  to ( 10 ).

11.6

After subsection (2), insert—

11.6.2A

A person may be detained under the authority of the Secretary of State—

11.6.2A.a

if the Secretary of State suspects that the person meets the four conditions
in section  2  of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 (conditions relating to
removal from the United Kingdom), pending a decision as to whether the
conditions are met;

11.6.2A.b

if the Secretary of State suspects that the Secretary of State has a duty to
make arrangements for the removal of the person from the United Kingdom under
that section, pending a decision as to whether the duty applies;

11.6.2A.c

if the Secretary of State has such a duty, pending the person’s removal from
the United Kingdom in accordance with that section;

11.6.2A.d

if the person meets those four conditions but the Secretary of State does not
have such a duty by virtue of  subsection (1)  of  section 4  of that Act—

11.6.2A.d.i

pending a decision to give limited leave under the immigration rules to the
person for the purposes of that subsection,

11.6.2A.d.ii

pending a decision to give leave under section 8AA of the Immigration Act 1971
(discretionary leave for persons generally ineligible for leave etc),

11.6.2A.d.iii

pending a decision to give leave under section 65(2) of the Nationality and
Borders Act 2022 (leave to remain for victims of slavery or human
trafficking), or

11.6.2A.d.iv

pending a decision to remove the person under  subsection (2)  of  section 4
of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 (power to remove unaccompanied children),
and pending their removal in accordance with that subsection.

11.6.2B

But if the Secretary of State is satisfied that a woman being detained under
subsection  (2A)  is pregnant, then the woman may not be detained under that
subsection for a period of—

11.6.2B.a

more than 72 hours from the relevant time, or

11.6.2B.b

more than seven days from the relevant time, in a case where the longer period
of detention is authorised personally by a Minister of the Crown (within the
meaning of the Ministers of the Crown Act 1975).

11.6.2C

A woman who has been released as a result of subsection  (2B)  may be detained
again under subsection  (2A)  in accordance with subsection  (2B) .

11.6.2D

Where a woman being detained under subsection  (2A)  has previously been
detained under paragraph 16 (2C)  of Schedule 2 to the Immigration Act 1971
and has not been released in between, the definition of “the relevant time” in
subsection  (2E)  is to be read as if paragraph (b) referred to the time when
the woman was first detained under subsection  (2A)  or paragraph 16(2C) of
that Schedule to that Act.

11.6.2E

In subsections  (2B)  to  (2D) —

“ the relevant time ” means the later of— the time at which the Secretary of
State is first satisfied that the woman is pregnant, and the time at which the
detention under subsection  (2A)  begins; “ woman ” means a female of any age.

11.6.2F

The powers in subsection  (2A)  may be exercised in respect of an
unaccompanied child only in the circumstances specified in regulations made by
the Secretary of State.

11.6.2G

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, specify time limits that apply to
the detention of an unaccompanied child under subsection  (2A) (d) (iv)
(detention of unaccompanied child in relation to removal).

11.6.2H

Regulations under subsection  (2F)  may confer a discretion on the Secretary
of State or an immigration officer.

11.6.2I

Regulations under subsection  (2F)  or  (2G) —

11.6.2I.a

may make different provision for different purposes;

11.6.2I.b

may make consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional or saving
provision;

11.6.2I.c

must be made by statutory instrument.

11.6.2J

A person who may be detained under subsection  (2A)  may no longer be detained
under subsection (1) or (2).

11.6.2K

A person (of any age) detained under subsection  (2A)  may be detained in any
place that the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

11.6.2L

A statutory instrument containing regulations under subsection  (2F)  or  (2G)
is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

11.6.2M

In subsections  (2F)  and  (2G) , “ unaccompanied child ” has the same meaning
as in the Illegal Migration Act 2023 (see section  4  of that Act).

11.7

In subsection (3), in the opening words, for “that Act” substitute  “the
Immigration Act 1971” .

11.8

After subsection (3) insert—

11.8.3A

But a provision of Schedule 2 to the Immigration Act 1971 which is expressed
to relate only to a person who is detained or liable to detention under sub-
paragraph (2) of paragraph 16 of that Schedule does not apply to a person who
is detained or liable to detention under subsection  (2A)  of this section.

11.9

In subsection (7), for “this section” substitute  “subsection (1) or (2)” .

11.10

In subsection (7A), for “this section” substitute  “subsection (1) or (2)” .

11.11

In section 60(8) of Immigration Act 2016 (limitation on detention of pregnant
women), in paragraph (c) of the definition of “relevant detention power”,
after “section 62” insert  “(1) or (2)” .

#### Period for which persons may be detained

12

12.1

In Schedule 2 to the Immigration Act 1971 (administrative provisions as to
control on entry etc.)—

12.1.a

in paragraph 16 (powers to detain), after sub-paragraph (4) insert—

12.1.a.5

See paragraph  17A  for further provision about the period for which persons
may be detained under this paragraph.

;

12.1.b

after paragraph 17 insert—

12.1.b.17A

12.1.b.17A.1

A person liable to be detained under paragraph 16 may be detained for such
period as, in the opinion of the Secretary of State, is reasonably necessary
to enable the examination or removal to be carried out, the decision to be
made, or the directions to be given.

12.1.b.17A.2

Sub-paragraphs (1) to (2), (2C), (3) and (4) of paragraph 16 apply regardless
of whether there is anything that for the time being prevents the examination
or removal from being carried out, the decision from being made, or the
directions from being given.

12.1.b.17A.3

Sub-paragraphs  (1)  and  (2)  are subject to—

12.1.b.17A.3.a

paragraph 16(1B) (power to detain for examination for period not exceeding 12
hours);

12.1.b.17A.3.b

paragraph 16(2A) and paragraph 18B (limitation on detention of unaccompanied
children);

12.1.b.17A.3.c

paragraph 16(2B) and section 60 of the Immigration Act 2016 (limitation on
detention of pregnant women);

12.1.b.17A.3.d

paragraph 16 (2D)  to  (2G)  (limitation on detention of pregnant women).

12.1.b.17A.4

Sub-paragraph  (5)  applies if, while a person is detained under paragraph 16,
the Secretary of State no longer considers that the examination or removal
will be carried out, the decision will be made, or the directions will be
given within a reasonable period of time.

12.1.b.17A.5

The person may be detained under paragraph 16 for such further period as, in
the opinion of the Secretary of State, is reasonably necessary to enable such
arrangements to be made for the person’s release as the Secretary of State
considers to be appropriate.

12.1.b.17A.6

In the application of this paragraph in relation to detention under paragraph
16(3), references to “the removal” are to—

12.1.b.17A.6.a

the removal of the person from the ship or aircraft on which the person is
detained so that the person may be detained under paragraph 16, or

12.1.b.17A.6.b

the removal of the person from the United Kingdom in that ship or aircraft.

12.1.b.17A.7

In the application of this paragraph in relation to detention under paragraph
16(4), references to “the removal” are to the removal of the person from the
United Kingdom in the ship or aircraft on which the person is detained.

12.2

In paragraph 2 of Schedule 3 to the Immigration Act 1971 (detention or control
pending deportation)—

12.2.a

after sub-paragraph (3) insert—

12.2.a.3A

A person liable to be detained under sub-paragraph (1), (2) or (3) may be
detained for such period as, in the opinion of the Secretary of State, is
reasonably necessary to enable the deportation order to be made, or the
removal to be carried out.

12.2.a.3B

Sub-paragraphs (1) to (3) apply regardless of whether there is anything that
for the time being prevents the deportation order from being made or the
removal from being carried out.

12.2.a.3C

Sub-paragraphs  (3A)  and  (3B)  are subject to sub-paragraph (4ZA) and
section 60 of the Immigration Act 2016 (limitation on detention of pregnant
women).

12.2.a.3D

Sub-paragraph  (3E)  applies if, while a person is detained under sub-
paragraph (1), (2) or (3), the Secretary of State no longer considers that the
deportation order will be made or the removal will be carried out within a
reasonable period of time.

12.2.a.3E

The person may be detained under that sub-paragraph for such further period
as, in the opinion of the Secretary of State, is reasonably necessary to
enable such arrangements to be made for the person’s release as the Secretary
of State considers to be appropriate.

;

12.2.b

in sub-paragraph (4), for “17 to 18A” substitute  “17, 18, 18A” .

12.3

In section 10(9) of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 (application of
Schedule 2 to the Immigration Act 1971 in relation to persons unlawfully in
the United Kingdom)—

12.3.a

in paragraph (b), for “16(2) to (4)” substitute  “16(2) to (2B), (3) and (4)”
;

12.3.b

after paragraph (c) insert—

12.3.b.ca

paragraph  17A  (period for which persons may be detained);

.

12.4

In section 62 of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (detention
by Secretary of State)—

12.4.a

after subsection (2M) (inserted by  section 11 (6) ), insert—

12.4.a.2N

A person liable to be detained under this section may be detained for such
period as, in the opinion of the Secretary of State, is reasonably necessary
to enable the decision to be made, the removal or examination to be carried
out, or the directions to be given.

12.4.a.2O

Subsections (1) to (2A) apply regardless of whether there is anything that for
the time being prevents the decision from being made, the removal or
examination from being carried out, or the directions from being given.

12.4.a.2P

Subsections  (2N)  and  (2O)  are subject to—

12.4.a.2P.a

paragraph 18B of Schedule 2 to the Immigration Act 1971 (limitation on
detention of unaccompanied children), as applied by subsection (3);

12.4.a.2P.b

subsections  (2B)  to  (2E)  (limitation on detention of pregnant women);

12.4.a.2P.c

subsection (7A) and section 60 of the Immigration Act 2016 (limitation on
detention of pregnant women).

12.4.a.2Q

Subsection  (2R)  applies if, while a person is detained under this section,
the Secretary of State no longer considers that the decision will be made, the
removal or examination will be carried out, or the directions will be given
within a reasonable period of time.

12.4.a.2R

The person may be detained under this section for such further period as, in
the opinion of the Secretary of State, is reasonably necessary to enable such
arrangements to be made for the person’s release as the Secretary of State
considers to be appropriate.

;

12.4.b

in subsection (3), in the opening words, after “under that Schedule” insert
“, other than paragraph 17A,” .

12.5

In section 36 of the UK Borders Act 2007 (detention relating to deportation),
after subsection (1) insert—

12.5.1A

A person liable to be detained under subsection (1) may be detained for such
period as, in the opinion of the Secretary of State, is reasonably necessary
to enable the decision as to whether section 32(5) applies, or the deportation
order, to be made.

12.5.1B

Subsection (1) applies regardless of whether there is anything that for the
time being prevents the decision or the deportation order from being made.

12.5.1C

Subsections  (1A)  and  (1B)  are subject to subsection (2A) and section 60 of
the Immigration Act 2016 (limitation on detention of pregnant women).

12.5.1D

Subsection  (1E)  applies if, while a person is detained under subsection (1),
the Secretary of State no longer considers that the decision or the
deportation order will be made within a reasonable period of time.

12.5.1E

The person may be detained under subsection (1) for such further period as, in
the opinion of the Secretary of State, is reasonably necessary to enable such
arrangements to be made for the person’s release as the Secretary of State
considers to be appropriate.

12.6

In regulation 32 of the Immigration (European Economic Area) Regulations 2016
( S.I. 2016/1052 ) as it continues to have effect following its revocation
(person subject to removal), for paragraph (1) substitute—

12.6.1

If there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a person is someone who
may be removed from the United Kingdom under regulation 23(6)(b), that person
may be detained under the authority of the Secretary of State pending a
decision whether or not to remove the person under that regulation.

12.6.2

A person liable to be detained under paragraph (1) may be detained for such
period as, in the opinion of the Secretary of State, is reasonably necessary
to enable the decision to be made.

12.6.3

Paragraph  (1)  applies regardless of whether there is anything that for the
time being prevents the decision from being made.

12.6.4

Paragraph  (5)  applies if, while a person is detained under paragraph (1),
the Secretary of State no longer considers that the decision will be made
within a reasonable period of time.

12.6.5

The person may be detained under paragraph (1) for such further period as, in
the opinion of the Secretary of State, is reasonably necessary to enable such
arrangements to be made for the person’s release as the Secretary of State
considers to be appropriate.

12.6.6

Paragraphs 17, 18 and 18A of Schedule 2 to the 1971 Act apply in relation to
detention under paragraph (1) as they apply in relation to detention under
paragraph 16 of that Schedule.

#### Powers to grant immigration bail

13

13.1

Schedule 10 to the Immigration Act 2016 (immigration bail) is amended in
accordance with subsections (2) to (4).

13.2

In paragraph 1 (power to grant immigration bail)—

13.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(a), for “or (2)” substitute  “, (2) or  (2C) ” ,

13.2.b

in sub-paragraph (3)(a), for “or (2)” substitute  “, (2) or  (2C) ” , and

13.2.c

in sub-paragraph (9), after “bail)” insert  “and paragraph  3A  (legal
proceedings)” .

13.3

In paragraph 3 (exercise of power to grant immigration bail)—

13.3.a

in sub-paragraph (2), after paragraph (e) insert—

13.3.a.eza

whether the Secretary of State has a duty to make arrangements for the removal
of the person from the United Kingdom under section  2 (1)  of the Illegal
Migration Act 2023,

;

13.3.b

after sub-paragraph (3) insert—

13.3.b.3A

A person who is being detained under paragraph 16(2C)(d)(iv) of Schedule 2 to
the Immigration Act 1971 or section 62(2A)(d)(iv) of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (detention of unaccompanied child for purposes
of removal) must not be granted immigration bail by the First-tier Tribunal
until after the earlier of—

13.3.b.3A.a

the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the person’s
detention under any provision of paragraph 16(2C) of Schedule 2 to the
Immigration Act 1971 or section 62(2A) of the Nationality, Immigration and
Asylum Act 2002 began, and

13.3.b.3A.b

the end of the period of 8 days beginning with the date on which the person’s
detention under paragraph 16(2C)(d)(iv) of Schedule 2 to the Immigration Act
1971 or section 62(2A)(d)(iv) of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act
2002 began.

13.3.b.3B

A person who is being detained under—

13.3.b.3B.a

paragraph 16(2C)(a), (b), (c) or (d)(i) to (iii) of Schedule 2 to the
Immigration Act 1971, or

13.3.b.3B.b

section 62(2A)(a), (b), (c) or (d)(i) to (iii) of the Nationality, Immigration
and Asylum Act 2002,

must not be granted immigration bail by the First-tier Tribunal until after
the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the person’s
detention under paragraph 16(2C) of that Schedule or section 62(2A) of that
Act began.

13.3.b.3C

Where a person is detained under a provision of the Immigration Act 1971 and
then (without being released) under a provision of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002, or vice versa, the periods referred to in
sub-paragraphs  (3A)  and (3B) begin with the date on which the person was
first detained under the relevant provisions of either of those Acts.

13.4

After paragraph 3 insert—

########## Legal proceedings

13.4.3A

13.4.3A.1

This paragraph applies in relation to—

13.4.3A.1.a

a decision to detain a person under the authority of an immigration officer
under paragraph 16 (2C)  of Schedule 2 to the Immigration Act 1971,

13.4.3A.1.b

a decision to detain a person under the authority of the Secretary of State
under section 62 (2A)  of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002,
and

13.4.3A.1.c

where a person is being detained under a provision mentioned in paragraph  (a)
or  (b) , a decision of the Secretary of State to refuse to grant immigration
bail to the person.

13.4.3A.2

In relation to detention during the relevant period, the decision is final and
is not liable to be questioned or set aside in any court or tribunal.

13.4.3A.3

In particular—

13.4.3A.3.a

the powers of the immigration officer or the Secretary of State (as the case
may be) are not to be regarded as having been exceeded by reason of any error
made in reaching the decision;

13.4.3A.3.b

the supervisory jurisdiction does not extend to, and no application or
petition for judicial review may be made or brought in relation to, the
decision.

13.4.3A.4

Sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3)  do not apply so far as the decision involves or
gives rise to any question as to whether the immigration officer or the
Secretary of State is acting or has acted—

13.4.3A.4.a

in bad faith, or

13.4.3A.4.b

in such a procedurally defective way as amounts to a fundamental breach of the
principles of natural justice.

13.4.3A.5

Sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3)  do not affect any right of a person to—

13.4.3A.5.a

apply for a writ of habeas corpus, or

13.4.3A.5.b

in Scotland, apply to the Court of Session for suspension and liberation.

13.4.3A.6

In this paragraph—

“ decision ” includes any purported decision; “ relevant period ” means the
period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the person’s detention
under the provision mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1)  began; “ the supervisory
jurisdiction ” means the supervisory jurisdiction of— the High Court, in
England and Wales or Northern Ireland, or the Court of Session, in Scotland.

13.5

In Schedule 3 to the Special Immigration Appeals Commission Act 1997 (bail:
modifications of Schedule 10 to the Immigration Act 2016), in paragraph 3(a),
after “(3),” insert  “(3A), (3B),” .

#### Disapplication of duty to consult Independent Family Returns Panel

14

In section 54A of the Borders, Citizenship and Immigration Act 2009
(Independent Family Returns Panel), after subsection (3) insert—

14.3A

The duty under subsection (2)(a) does not apply where the proposed removal is
for the purposes of section  2  or  4 (2)  of the Illegal Migration Act 2023
(duty or power to make arrangements for removal).

14.3B

The duty under subsection (2)(b) does not apply where the proposed detention
is under—

14.3B.a

paragraph 16 (2C)  of Schedule 2 to the Immigration Act 1971 (detention under
authority of immigration officer relating to removal under the Illegal
Migration Act 2023), or

14.3B.b

section 62 (2A)  of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002
(detention under authority of Secretary of State relating to removal under the
Illegal Migration Act 2023).

#### Electronic devices etc

15

Schedule  2  confers—

15.a

powers to search persons liable to be detained under paragraph 16 (2C)  of
Schedule 2 to the Immigration Act 1971 (illegal migrants), and to search
vehicles, premises and property, for things on which certain information is or
may be stored in electronic form;

15.b

powers to seize and retain such things, and to access, copy and use
information stored on those things.

### Unaccompanied children

#### Accommodation and other support for unaccompanied migrant children

16

16.1

The Secretary of State may provide, or arrange for the provision of,
accommodation in England for unaccompanied children in England.

16.2

In this section, “ accommodation for unaccompanied migrant children ” means
accommodation provided under  this section .

16.3

While a child is residing in accommodation for unaccompanied migrant children,
the Secretary of State may provide, or arrange for the provision of, other
types of support to the child.

16.4

Subsections  (1)  to  (3)  are to be treated as having had effect at all times
on or after 7 March 2023.

16.5

For the purposes of this section and section  17 , a person (“ C ”) is an
unaccompanied child if—

16.5.a

C meets the four conditions in section  2 , reading subsection  (3)  of that
section as if it referred to a person entering or arriving in the United
Kingdom as mentioned in subsection  (2)  of that section on or after 7 March
2023,

16.5.b

C is under the age of 18, and

16.5.c

at the time of C’s entry or arrival in the United Kingdom by virtue of which C
meets the condition in section  2 (3) , no individual (whether or not a parent
of C) who was aged 18 or over had care of C.

#### Transfer of children from Secretary of State to local authority and vice versa

17

17.1

The Secretary of State may decide that a child is to cease residing in
accommodation for unaccompanied migrant children on a certain date (the
transfer date).

17.2

On making that decision, the Secretary of State must direct a local authority
in England to provide accommodation to the child, under section 20 of the
Children Act 1989, from the transfer date.

17.3

The transfer date must be a date falling after the end of the period of five
working days beginning with the day on which the local authority was given the
direction.

17.4

The Secretary of State may decide that an unaccompanied child who is being
provided with accommodation by a local authority in England is to cease being
provided with that accommodation on a certain date (the transfer date).

17.5

On making that decision, the Secretary of State must direct the local
authority to cease providing the child with accommodation from the transfer
date.

17.6

The transfer date must be a date falling after the end of the period of five
working days beginning with the day on which the local authority was given the
direction.

17.7

When a local authority ceases providing a child with accommodation in
compliance with a direction under  subsection (5) , the Secretary of State
must arrange for the child to reside in accommodation for unaccompanied
migrant children from the transfer date.

17.8

In this section and sections  18  and  19 —

“ accommodation for unaccompanied migrant children ” has the same meaning as
in  section 16 ; “ local authority ” has the same meaning as in the Children
Act 1989 (see section 105(1) of that Act); “ working day ” means any day which
is not Saturday, Sunday, Christmas Day, Good Friday or a day which is a bank
holiday in England and Wales under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act
1971.

#### Duty of local authority to provide information to the Secretary of State

18

18.1

The Secretary of State may direct a local authority to provide information to
the Secretary of State for the purposes of helping the Secretary of State to
make a decision under  section 17 (1)  or  (4)  (decision to transfer
unaccompanied migrant child from Secretary of State to local authority or vice
versa).

18.2

The information that the Secretary of State may direct a local authority to
provide is—

18.2.a

information about the accommodation and support provided to children by the
local authority;

18.2.b

such other information as may be specified in regulations made by the
Secretary of State.

18.3

A local authority which is directed to provide information under this section
must provide it—

18.3.a

in such form and manner as the Secretary of State may direct, and

18.3.b

before such time or before the end of such period as the Secretary of State
may direct.

#### Enforcement of local authorities’ duties under sections 

19

19.1

If the Secretary of State is satisfied that a local authority has failed,
without reasonable excuse, to comply with a direction under  section 17  or a
duty under  section 18 , the Secretary of State may make an order declaring
that authority to be in default with respect to that direction or duty.

19.2

An order under  subsection (1)  must give the Secretary of State’s reasons for
making it.

19.3

An order under  subsection (1)  may contain such directions for the purpose of
ensuring that the direction or duty is complied with, within such period as
may be specified in the order, as appears to the Secretary of State to be
necessary.

19.4

Any such direction may be enforced on an application made on behalf of the
Secretary of State, by a mandatory order.

#### Extension to Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland

20

20.1

The Secretary of State may make regulations enabling sections  16  to  19  to
apply in relation to Wales, Scotland or Northern Ireland.

20.2

The regulations may amend, repeal or revoke any enactment (including an
enactment contained in this Act).

20.3

The regulations may not confer functions on—

20.3.a

the Welsh Ministers,

20.3.b

the Scottish Ministers,

20.3.c

the First Minister and deputy First Minister in Northern Ireland,

20.3.d

a Northern Ireland Minister, or

20.3.e

a Northern Ireland department.

20.4

In this section, “ enactment ” includes—

20.4.a

an enactment contained in subordinate legislation within the meaning of the
Interpretation Act 1978;

20.4.b

an enactment contained in, or in an instrument made under, an Act or Measure
of Senedd Cymru;

20.4.c

an enactment contained in, or in an instrument made under, an Act of the
Scottish Parliament;

20.4.d

an enactment contained in, or in an instrument made under, Northern Ireland
legislation.

#### Transfer of children between local authorities

21

21.1

Section 69 of the Immigration Act 2016 (transfer of responsibility for
relevant children) is amended as follows.

21.2

In subsection (9) (definition of “relevant child”)—

21.2.a

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (b), and

21.2.b

after paragraph (c) insert

, or

21.2.b.d

an unaccompanied child, within the meaning of section  16  of the Illegal
Migration Act 2023.

21.3

In subsection (10), at the end insert  “(a) to (c)” .

### Modern slavery

#### Provisions relating to removal and leave

22

22.1

Subsection  (2)  (disapplication of modern slavery provisions) applies in
relation to a person if—

22.1.a

the Secretary of State is required by section  2 (1)  to make arrangements for
the removal of the person from the United Kingdom, and

22.1.b

a decision has been made by a competent authority that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that the person is a victim of slavery or human trafficking
(a “positive reasonable grounds decision”).

This is subject to subsections  (3)  to  (7) .

22.2

Where this subsection applies in relation to a person—

22.2.a

any prohibition arising under section 61 or 62 of the Nationality and Borders
Act 2022 (recovery period) on removing the person from, or requiring them to
leave, the United Kingdom does not apply in relation to the person, and

22.2.b

any requirement under section 65 of that Act (leave to remain) to grant the
person limited leave to remain in the United Kingdom does not apply in
relation to the person.

22.3

Subsection  (2)  does not apply in relation to a person if—

22.3.a

the Secretary of State is satisfied that the person is cooperating with a
public authority in connection with an investigation or criminal proceedings
in respect of the relevant exploitation,

22.3.b

the Secretary of State considers that it is necessary for the person to be
present in the United Kingdom to provide that cooperation, and

22.3.c

the Secretary of State does not consider that the public interest in the
person providing that cooperation is outweighed by any significant risk of
serious harm to members of the public which is posed by the person.

22.4

In subsection  (3) —

22.4.a

the reference to a person cooperating with a public authority in connection
with an investigation or criminal proceedings is to the person doing so to the
extent that is reasonable having regard to the person’s circumstances, and

22.4.b

“ the relevant exploitation ” means—

22.4.b.i

the conduct or alleged conduct resulting in the positive reasonable grounds
decision, and

22.4.b.ii

where a positive conclusive grounds decision has also been made in relation to
the person, any other conduct resulting in that decision.

22.5

The Secretary of State must assume for the purposes of subsection  (3) (b)
that it is not necessary for the person to be present in the United Kingdom to
provide the cooperation in question unless the Secretary of State considers
that there are compelling circumstances which require the person to be present
in the United Kingdom for that purpose.

22.6

In determining whether there are compelling circumstances as mentioned in
subsection  (5) , the Secretary of State must have regard to guidance issued
by the Secretary of State.

22.7

Subsection  (2)  does not apply in relation to a person (“ A ”) if subsection
(3)  applies in relation to a person (“ P ”) and—

22.7.a

A is P’s child, or a child living in the same household as P in circumstances
where P has care of A, or

22.7.b

in a case where P is a child—

22.7.b.i

A is P’s parent, or

22.7.b.ii

A lives in the same household as P and has sole responsibility for P.

22.8

Subsection  (9)  applies to a person if—

22.8.a

the Secretary of State is not required by section  2 (1)  to make arrangements
for the removal of the person from the United Kingdom,

22.8.b

the only reason why the Secretary of State is not required to do so is that
the person has limited leave to remain in the United Kingdom granted under
section 65(2) of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022,

22.8.c

that leave was granted on or after 7 March 2023, and

22.8.d

subsection  (3)  or  (7)  does not apply in relation to the person.

22.9

The Secretary of State may revoke the leave granted to the person under
section 65(2) of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022.

22.10

Subsection  (9)  is to be treated for the purposes of section 3 of the
Immigration Act 1971 as if it were provision made by that Act.

22.11

In this section—

“ child ” means a person who is under the age of 18; “ competent authority ”
means a person who is a competent authority of the United Kingdom for the
purposes of the Trafficking Convention; “ positive conclusive grounds decision
” means a decision made by a competent authority that a person is a victim of
slavery or human trafficking; “ public authority ” means a public authority
within the meaning of section 6 of the Human Rights Act 1998; “ the
Trafficking Convention ” means the Council of Europe Convention on Action
against Trafficking in Human Beings (done at Warsaw on 16 May 2005); “ victim
of slavery ” and “victim of human trafficking” have the meanings given in
regulations made by the Secretary of State under section 69 of the Nationality
and Borders Act 2022.

#### Provisions relating to support: England and Wales

23

23.1

Subsection  (2)  applies in relation to a person if—

23.1.a

the Secretary of State is required by section  2 (1)  to make arrangements for
the removal of the person from the United Kingdom,

23.1.b

a positive reasonable grounds decision has been made in relation to the
person, and

23.1.c

section  22 (3)  (cooperation with public authority) does not apply in
relation to the person.

23.2

Any duty under section 50A of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (assistance and
support) to secure that any necessary assistance and support is available to
the person does not apply in relation to the person.

23.3

In this section “ positive reasonable grounds decision ” has the same meaning
as in section  22 .

#### Provisions relating to support: Scotland

24

24.1

Subsection  (2)  applies in relation to a person if—

24.1.a

the Secretary of State is required by section  2 (1)  to make arrangements for
the removal of the person from the United Kingdom, and

24.1.b

a competent authority has determined that there are reasonable grounds to
believe that the person is a victim of slavery or human trafficking or is
determining whether or not that is the case.

This is subject to subsections  (3)  to  (5) .

24.2

Where this subsection applies in relation to a person, the following do not
apply in relation to the person—

24.2.a

any duty of the Scottish Ministers under section 9(1) of the  Human
Trafficking and Exploitation (Scotland) Act 2015 (asp 12)  (human trafficking:
support and assistance) to secure the provision of support and assistance for
the person;

24.2.b

any power of the Scottish Ministers under section 9(3) of that Act to secure
the provision of support and assistance for the person;

24.2.c

any duty or power of the Scottish Ministers under regulations under section
10(1) of that Act (slavery etc: support and assistance) relating to the
provision of support or assistance to the person.

24.3

Subsection  (2)  does not apply in relation to a person if—

24.3.a

the Secretary of State is satisfied that the person is cooperating with a
public authority in connection with an investigation or criminal proceedings
in respect of the relevant exploitation,

24.3.b

the Secretary of State considers that it is necessary for the person to be
present in the United Kingdom to provide that cooperation, and

24.3.c

the Secretary of State does not consider that the public interest in the
person providing that cooperation is outweighed by any significant risk of
serious harm to members of the public which is posed by the person.

24.4

In subsection  (3) —

24.4.a

the reference to a person cooperating with a public authority in connection
with an investigation or criminal proceedings is to the person doing so to the
extent that is reasonable having regard to the person’s circumstances, and

24.4.b

“ the relevant exploitation ” means—

24.4.b.i

the conduct or alleged conduct on the basis of which a competent authority has
made or is making the determination mentioned in subsection  (1) (b) , and

24.4.b.ii

where a conclusive determination has been made that the person is a victim of
slavery or human trafficking, any other conduct resulting in that decision.

24.5

The Secretary of State must assume for the purposes of subsection  (3) (b)
that it is not necessary for the person to be present in the United Kingdom to
provide the cooperation in question unless the Secretary of State considers
that there are compelling circumstances which require the person to be present
in the United Kingdom for that purpose.

24.6

In determining whether there are compelling circumstances as mentioned in
subsection  (5) , the Secretary of State must have regard to guidance issued
by the Secretary of State.

24.7

For the purposes of this section—

24.7.a

a person is a victim of slavery if they are a victim of an offence under
section 4 of the Human Trafficking and Exploitation (Scotland) Act 2015;

24.7.b

there is a conclusive determination that a person is a victim of slavery when
a competent authority concludes that the person is such a victim;

24.7.c

a person is a victim of human trafficking if they are a victim of an offence
under section 1 of the Human Trafficking and Exploitation (Scotland) Act 2015;

24.7.d

there is a conclusive determination that a person is a victim of human
trafficking when, on completion of the identification process required by
Article 10 of the Trafficking Convention, a competent authority concludes that
the person is such a victim.

24.8

In this section the following expressions have the same meaning as in section
22 —

“ competent authority ”; “ public authority ”; “ the Trafficking Convention ”.

24.9

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this section in consequence of
regulations made by the Scottish Ministers under—

24.9.a

section 9(8) of the Human Trafficking and Exploitation (Scotland) Act 2015
(power to modify section 9), or

24.9.b

section 10(1) of that Act (slavery etc: support and assistance).

#### Provisions relating to support: Northern Ireland

25

25.1

Subsection  (2)  applies in relation to a person if—

25.1.a

the Secretary of State is required by section  2 (1)  to make arrangements for
the removal of the person from the United Kingdom, and

25.1.b

a reference relating to the person has been, or is about to be, made to a
competent authority for a determination whether there are reasonable grounds
to believe that the person is a victim of slavery or trafficking in human
beings.

This is subject to subsections  (3)  to  (5) .

25.2

Where this subsection applies in relation to a person, the following do not
apply in relation to the person—

25.2.a

any duty of the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland under section 18 of
the  Human Trafficking and Exploitation (Criminal Justice and Support for
Victims) Act (Northern Ireland) 2015 (c. 2 (N.I.))  (human trafficking and
slavery etc: assistance and support) to ensure the provision of assistance and
support to the person;

25.2.b

any power under section 18(8) of that Act to continue the provision of
assistance and support to the person;

25.2.c

any power of the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland under section 18(9)
of that Act to ensure the provision of assistance and support to the person.

25.3

Subsection  (2)  does not apply in relation to a person if—

25.3.a

the Secretary of State is satisfied that the person is cooperating with a
public authority in connection with an investigation or criminal proceedings
in respect of the relevant exploitation,

25.3.b

the Secretary of State considers that it is necessary for the person to be
present in the United Kingdom to provide that cooperation, and

25.3.c

the Secretary of State does not consider that the public interest in the
person providing that cooperation is outweighed by any significant risk of
serious harm to members of the public which is posed by the person.

25.4

In subsection  (3) —

25.4.a

the reference to a person cooperating with a public authority in connection
with an investigation or criminal proceedings is to the person doing so to the
extent that is reasonable having regard to the person’s circumstances, and

25.4.b

“ the relevant exploitation ” means—

25.4.b.i

the conduct or alleged conduct on the basis of which the reference mentioned
in subsection  (1) (b)  has been, or is about to be, made, and

25.4.b.ii

where a conclusive determination has been made that the person is a victim of
slavery or trafficking in human beings, any other conduct resulting in that
decision.

25.5

The Secretary of State must assume for the purposes of subsection  (3) (b)
that it is not necessary for the person to be present in the United Kingdom to
provide the cooperation in question unless the Secretary of State considers
that there are compelling circumstances which require the person to be present
in the United Kingdom for that purpose.

25.6

In determining whether there are compelling circumstances as mentioned in
subsection  (5) , the Secretary of State must have regard to guidance issued
by the Secretary of State.

25.7

For the purposes of this section—

25.7.a

a person is a victim of slavery if they are a victim of—

25.7.a.i

slavery or servitude, or

25.7.a.ii

forced or compulsory labour,

within the meaning of Part 3 of the Human Trafficking and Exploitation
(Criminal Justice and Support for Victims) Act (Northern Ireland) 2015 (see
section 17(1A) of that Act);

25.7.b

there is a conclusive determination that a person is a victim of slavery when,
on completion of an identification process corresponding to one required by
Article 10 of the Trafficking Convention, a competent authority concludes that
the person is such a victim;

25.7.c

“ trafficking in human beings ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the Human
Trafficking and Exploitation (Criminal Justice and Support for Victims) Act
(Northern Ireland) 2015 (see section 17(2) of that Act);

25.7.d

there is a conclusive determination that a person is a victim of trafficking
in human beings when, on completion of the identification process required by
Article 10 of the Trafficking Convention, a competent authority concludes that
the person is such a victim.

25.8

In this section the following expressions have the same meaning as in section
22 —

“ competent authority ”; “ public authority ”; “ the Trafficking Convention ”.

#### Suspension and revival of sections 

26

26.1

The operation of a provision of sections  22  to  25  (a “relevant provision”)
is suspended at the end of the period of 2 years beginning with the coming
into force of that provision.

26.2

Subsection  (1)  does not apply to section  24 (9)  (power to amend section
24  in consequence of regulations made by the Scottish Ministers).

26.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

26.3.a

provide for the operation of a relevant provision to be suspended before the
time at which its operation would otherwise be suspended;

26.3.b

provide that a relevant provision the operation of which would otherwise be
suspended is to continue to operate for a period specified in the regulations;

26.3.c

where the operation of a relevant provision has been suspended, provide that
the operation of the provision is to revive for a period specified in the
regulations.

26.4

A period specified in regulations under subsection  (3) (b)  must not exceed
12 months from the time at which the operation of the provision would
otherwise be suspended.

26.5

A period specified in regulations under subsection  (3) (c)  must not exceed
12 months.

26.6

A power to make regulations under subsection  (3)  may be exercised more than
once in relation to the same relevant provision.

26.7

Section 16(1) of the Interpretation Act 1978 applies in relation to the
suspension of the operation of a relevant provision by or by virtue of this
section as if the provision had been repealed by an Act.

26.8

The Secretary of State may by regulations make other transitional or saving
provision in connection with the suspension of the operation of a relevant
provision.

26.9

A reference in this section to a relevant provision the operation of which
would be, or has been, suspended is to a relevant provision the operation of
which would be, or has been, suspended—

26.9.a

by subsection  (1) ,

26.9.b

by regulations under subsection  (3) (a) , or

26.9.c

on the expiry of the period specified in regulations under subsection  (3) (b)
or  (c) .

#### Procedure for certain regulations under section 

27

27.1

A statutory instrument containing (whether alone or with other provision)
regulations under section  26 (3) (c)  may not be made unless a draft of the
instrument has been laid before and approved by a resolution of each House of
Parliament.

27.2

Subsection  (1)  does not apply to regulations that contain a statement that
the Secretary of State considers that there is an urgent need to make the
regulations without the approval required by that subsection.

27.3

A statutory instrument containing regulations that contain such a statement
must be laid before Parliament after being made.

27.4

Regulations contained in a statutory instrument laid before Parliament under
subsection  (3)  cease to have effect at the end of the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the instrument is made unless, during that
period, the instrument is approved by a resolution of each House of
Parliament.

27.5

In calculating the period of 28 days, no account is to be taken of any whole
days that fall within a period during which—

27.5.a

Parliament is dissolved or prorogued, or

27.5.b

either House of Parliament is adjourned for more than four days.

27.6

If regulations cease to have effect as a result of subsection  (4)  that does
not—

27.6.a

affect the validity of anything previously done under the regulations, or

27.6.b

prevent the making of new regulations.

#### Amendments relating to sections 

28

28.1

In section 50A of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (identified potential victims of
slavery or human trafficking: assistance and support) (as inserted by section
64 of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022), after subsection (5) insert—

28.1.5A

This section is subject to section  23  of the Illegal Migration Act 2023
(provisions relating to support: England and Wales).

28.2

The  Human Trafficking and Exploitation (Scotland) Act 2015 (asp 12)  is
amended in accordance with subsections  (3)  and  (4) .

28.3

In section 9 (human trafficking: support and assistance), after subsection (9)
insert—

28.3.10

This section is subject to section  24  of the Illegal Migration Act 2023
(provisions relating to support: Scotland).

28.4

In section 10 (slavery etc: support and assistance), after subsection (2)
insert—

28.4.3

This section is subject to section  24  of the Illegal Migration Act 2023
(provisions relating to support: Scotland).

28.5

In section 18 of the  Human Trafficking and Exploitation (Criminal Justice and
Support for Victims) Act (Northern Ireland) 2015 (c. 2 (N.I.))  (human
trafficking and slavery etc: assistance and support), after subsection (10)
insert—

28.5.10A

This section is subject to section  25  of the Illegal Migration Act 2023
(provisions relating to support: Northern Ireland).

28.6

The Nationality and Borders Act 2022 is amended in accordance with subsections
(7)  to ( 12 ).

28.7

In section 61(2) (identified potential victims of slavery or human
trafficking: recovery period), after “section 63(2)” insert  “and section  22
of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 (provisions relating to removal and leave)”
.

28.8

In section 62(2) (identified potential victims of slavery or human
trafficking: additional recovery period), after “section 63(2)” insert  “and
section  22  of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 (provisions relating to removal
and leave)” .

28.9

In section 63 (identified potential victims of slavery or human trafficking:
disqualification from protection), after subsection (7) insert—

28.9.8

See also section  22  of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 (provisions relating
to removal and leave).

28.10

Section 65 (leave to remain for victims of slavery or human trafficking) is
amended in accordance with subsections  (11)  and  (12) .

28.11

In subsection (3), after “section 63(2)” insert  “and section  22  of the
Illegal Migration Act 2023 (provisions relating to removal and leave)” .

28.12

After subsection (8) insert—

28.12.8A

Section  22  of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 also makes provision about the
revocation of leave granted under subsection (2).

#### Disapplication of modern slavery provisions

29

29.1

Section 63 of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 (identified potential
victims of slavery or human trafficking: disqualification from protection) is
amended as follows.

29.2

In subsection (1)—

29.2.a

for “may” substitute  “must” , and

29.2.b

after paragraph (b) insert—

This is subject to subsection (2A).

29.3

After subsection (2) insert—

29.3.2A

A competent authority may not determine that subsection (2) is to apply to a
person if the competent authority considers that there are compelling
circumstances which mean that subsection (2) should not apply to the person.

29.4

In subsection (3)—

29.4.a

for paragraph (f) substitute—

29.4.a.f

the person—

29.4.a.f.i

is not a British citizen,

29.4.a.f.ii

has been convicted in the United Kingdom of an offence, and

29.4.a.f.iii

has been sentenced to a period of imprisonment for the offence;

, and

29.4.b

after paragraph (f) insert—

29.4.b.fa

the person is liable to deportation from the United Kingdom under section 3(5)
or (6) of the Immigration Act 1971 (deportation for the public good etc or as
a result of recommendation following conviction);

29.4.b.fb

the person is liable to deportation from the United Kingdom under any
provision of, or made under, any other enactment that provides for such
deportation;

.

29.5

After subsection (5) insert—

29.5.5A

In subsection (3)(f)—

29.5.5A.a

“ British citizen ” has the same meaning as in section 3(5) of the Immigration
Act 1971 (and section 3(8) (burden of proof) applies), and

29.5.5A.b

the reference to a person who has been sentenced to a period of imprisonment—

29.5.5A.b.i

does not include a reference to a person who receives a suspended sentence
(unless a court subsequently orders that the sentence or any part of it is to
take effect), and

29.5.5A.b.ii

includes a reference to a person who is sentenced to detention, or ordered or
directed to be detained, in an institution other than a prison (including, in
particular, a hospital or an institution for young offenders).

29.5.5B

For the purposes of subsection (3)(f) a person subject to an order under
section 5 of the Criminal Procedure (Insanity) Act 1964 (insanity etc) has not
been convicted of an offence.

29.6

An amendment made by a provision of this section applies in relation to a
person whether a positive reasonable grounds decision or a positive conclusive
grounds decision within the meaning of Part 5 of the Nationality and Borders
Act 2022 was made in relation to the person before or after the coming into
force of the provision making the amendment.

### Entry, settlement and citizenship

#### Entry into and settlement in the United Kingdom

30

30.1

The Immigration Act 1971 is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)  and
(3) .

30.2

In section 8(1) (exceptions for seamen, aircrews and other special cases), at
the end of paragraph (c) insert

or

30.2.d

the person has ever met the four conditions in section  2  of the Illegal
Migration Act 2023 (conditions relating to removal from the United Kingdom),
reading subsection (3) of that section as if it referred to a person entering
or arriving in the United Kingdom as mentioned in subsection (2) of that
section on or after 7 March 2023;

.

30.3

After section 8A, insert—

########## Persons ineligible for leave to enter and remain, entry clearance and ETA

30.3.8AA

30.3.8AA.1

This section applies in relation to a person who has ever met the four
conditions in section  2  of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 (conditions
relating to removal from the United Kingdom), reading subsection (3) of that
section as if it referred to a person entering or arriving in the United
Kingdom as mentioned in subsection (2) of that section on or after 7 March
2023.

30.3.8AA.2

Subject to subsections  (3)  to  (5) , the person—

30.3.8AA.2.a

must not be given leave to enter or leave to remain in the United Kingdom,
unless it is—

30.3.8AA.2.a.i

limited leave given under the immigration rules to a person within section  4
(1)  of that Act (unaccompanied children), or

30.3.8AA.2.a.ii

limited leave to remain given under section 65 of the Nationality and Borders
Act 2022 (leave to remain for victims of slavery or human trafficking) as it
has effect by virtue of  section 22  of the Illegal Migration Act 2023
(provisions relating to removal and leave),

30.3.8AA.2.b

must not be granted an entry clearance, and

30.3.8AA.2.c

must not be granted an ETA.

30.3.8AA.3

The Secretary of State may give the person limited leave to enter the United
Kingdom, or grant to the person an entry clearance or an ETA, if—

30.3.8AA.3.a

the person has left or been removed from the United Kingdom after having
become a person within subsection (1), and

30.3.8AA.3.b

the Secretary of State considers that—

30.3.8AA.3.b.i

failure to give the leave or grant the entry clearance or ETA would contravene
the United Kingdom’s obligations under the Human Rights Convention, or

30.3.8AA.3.b.ii

there are other exceptional circumstances which apply in relation to the
person which mean that it is appropriate to give the leave or grant the entry
clearance or ETA.

30.3.8AA.4

The Secretary of State may give the person limited leave to remain in the
United Kingdom if—

30.3.8AA.4.a

the Secretary of State considers that failure to do so would contravene the
United Kingdom’s obligations under the Human Rights Convention or any other
international agreement to which the United Kingdom is a party, or

30.3.8AA.4.b

the Secretary of State has exercised the power in  subsection (3)  in respect
of the person, and the Secretary of State considers that there are other
exceptional circumstances which apply in relation to the person which mean
that it is appropriate to give the person limited leave to remain.

30.3.8AA.5

The Secretary of State may give the person indefinite leave to remain in the
United Kingdom if the Secretary of State considers that failure to do so would
contravene the United Kingdom’s obligations under the Human Rights Convention.

30.3.8AA.6

In this section, “ the Human Rights Convention ” means the Convention for the
Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, agreed by the Council of
Europe at Rome on 4 November 1950 as it has effect for the time being in
relation to the United Kingdom.

30.4

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

30.5

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

30.6

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

30.7

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Persons prevented from obtaining British citizenship etc

31

31.1

Sections  32  to  35  (ineligibility for routes to British citizenship,
British overseas territories citizenship, British overseas citizenship and
status as a British subject) apply in relation to a person who falls within
subsection  (3) , read with the modifications in subsections  (4)  to  (6) .

31.2

Such a person is referred to in sections  32  to  35  as an “ineligible
person”.

31.3

A person falls within this subsection if the person has ever met the four
conditions in section  2  (conditions relating to removal from the United
Kingdom) ....

31.4

For the purposes of this section, references to the United Kingdom in section
2  and this section are to be read as if they included references to the
Islands and the British overseas territories.

31.5

For the purposes of this section as it has effect by virtue of  subsection (4)
in relation to any of the Islands—

31.5.a

references in section  2  to provisions of the Immigration Act 1971 are to be
read as if they included references to the provisions of that Act as extended
to that Island under section 36 of that Act, and

31.5.b

terms used in the four conditions in section  2  are to be interpreted in
accordance with that Act as extended to that Island under section 36 of that
Act.

31.6

For the purposes of this section as it has effect by virtue of  subsection (4)
in relation to any of the British overseas territories—

31.6.a

the references in section  2  to “leave to enter”, “leave to remain”, and
“limited leave to enter or remain” are to be construed as references to any
status formally granted under the immigration laws in force in that territory
which is broadly equivalent to the status in question under the Immigration
Act 1971,

31.6.b

the references in section  2  to “deportation order”, “entry clearance” and
“electronic travel authorisation” are to be construed as references to any
order, clearance or authorisation made or given under the immigration laws in
force in that territory which is broadly equivalent to the order, clearance or
authorisation in question under that Act, and

31.6.c

the references in section  2  to “entering”, “arriving” or to a document being
“valid” are to be construed as references to any concept under the immigration
laws in force in that territory which is broadly equivalent to the concept in
question under that Act.

31.7

In this section, “ the Islands ” means the Channel Islands and the Isle of
Man.

31.8

This section is subject to section  36  (disapplication of sections  32  to
35 ).

#### British citizenship

32

32.1

An ineligible person is not entitled to be registered as a British citizen
under any of the following provisions—

32.1.a

section 3(2) or (5) of the British Nationality Act 1981 (acquisition of
British citizenship by registration: minors);

32.1.b

section 4(2) of that Act (acquisition of British citizenship by registration:
British overseas territories citizens etc);

32.1.c

section 5 of that Act (acquisition of British citizenship by registration:
British overseas territories citizens having connection with Gibraltar);

32.1.d

section 10(1) of that Act (registration as British citizen following
renunciation of citizenship of UK etc);

32.1.e

section 13(1) of that Act (resumption of British citizenship).

32.2

In relation to an application for British citizenship made by or in relation
to an ineligible person, the Secretary of State may not—

32.2.a

cause the person to be registered as a British citizen under any of the
following provisions—

32.2.a.i

section 3(1) of the British Nationality Act 1981 (acquisition of British
citizenship by registration: minors);

32.2.a.ii

section 4A of that Act (acquisition of British citizenship by registration:
further provision for British overseas territories citizens);

32.2.a.iii

section 10(2) of that Act (registration as British citizen following
renunciation of citizenship of UK etc);

32.2.a.iv

section 13(3) of that Act (resumption of British citizenship);

32.2.b

grant to the person a certificate of naturalisation as a British citizen under
section 6 of that Act (acquisition of British citizenship by naturalisation).

#### British overseas territories citizenship

33

33.1

An ineligible person is not entitled to be registered as a British overseas
territories citizen under any of the following provisions—

33.1.a

section 17(2) or (5) of the British Nationality Act 1981 (acquisition of
British overseas territories citizenship by registration: minors);

33.1.b

section 22(1) of that Act (right to registration as British overseas
territories citizen replacing right to resume citizenship of UK etc);

33.1.c

section 13(1) of that Act as applied by section 24 of that Act (resumption of
British overseas territories citizenship).

33.2

In relation to an application made by or in relation to an ineligible person,
the Secretary of State may not—

33.2.a

cause the person to be registered as a British overseas territories citizen
under any of the following provisions—

33.2.a.i

section 17(1) of the British Nationality Act 1981 (acquisition of British
overseas territories citizenship by registration: minors);

33.2.a.ii

section 22(2) of that Act (right to registration as British overseas
territories citizen replacing right to resume citizenship of UK etc);

33.2.a.iii

section 13(3) of that Act as applied by section 24 of that Act (resumption of
British overseas territories citizenship);

33.2.b

grant to the person a certificate of naturalisation as a British overseas
territories citizen under section 18 of that Act (acquisition of British
overseas territories citizenship by naturalisation).

#### British overseas citizenship

34

The Secretary of State may not cause an ineligible person to be registered as
a British overseas citizen under section 27(1) of the British Nationality Act
1981 (registration of minors as British overseas citizens).

#### British subjects

35

The Secretary of State may not cause an ineligible person to be registered as
a British subject under section 32 of the British Nationality Act 1981
(registration of minors as British subjects).

#### Disapplication of sections 

36

36.1

This section applies in relation to a person who would otherwise be an
ineligible person for the purposes of sections  32  to  35  (see section  31
).

36.2

The Secretary of State may determine that the person is not to be an “
ineligible person ” for the purposes of sections  32  to  35  if the Secretary
of State considers that the application of those sections in relation to the
person would contravene the United Kingdom’s obligations under the Human
Rights Convention.

#### Amendments relating to sections 

37

37.1

The British Nationality Act 1981 is amended as follows.

37.2

In section 3 (acquisition of British citizenship by registration: minors),
after subsection (6) insert—

37.2.7

This section is subject to sections  31 ,  32  and  36  of the Illegal
Migration Act 2023 (restriction of eligibility for citizenship etc).

37.3

In section 4 (acquisition of British citizenship by registration: British
overseas territories citizens etc), after subsection (6) insert—

37.3.7

This section is subject to sections  31 ,  32  and  36  of the Illegal
Migration Act 2023 (restriction of eligibility for citizenship etc).

37.4

In section 4A (acquisition of British citizenship by registration: further
provision for British overseas territories citizens), after subsection (2)
insert—

37.4.3

This section is subject to sections  31 ,  32  and  36  of the Illegal
Migration Act 2023 (restriction of eligibility for citizenship etc).

37.5

In section 5 (acquisition of British citizenship by registration: British
overseas territories citizens having connection with Gibraltar), at the
beginning insert  “Subject to sections  31 ,  32  and  36  of the Illegal
Migration Act 2023 (restriction of eligibility for citizenship etc),” .

37.6

In section 6 (acquisition of British citizenship by naturalisation), after
subsection (2) insert—

37.6.3

This section is subject to sections  31 ,  32  and  36  of the Illegal
Migration Act 2023 (restriction of eligibility for citizenship etc).

37.7

In section 10 (registration as British citizen following renunciation of
citizenship of UK etc), after subsection (4) insert—

37.7.5

This section is subject to sections  31 ,  32  and  36  of the Illegal
Migration Act 2023 (restriction of eligibility for citizenship etc).

37.8

In section 13 (resumption of British citizenship), after subsection (3)
insert—

37.8.4

This section is subject to sections  31 ,  32  and  36  of the Illegal
Migration Act 2023 (restriction of eligibility for citizenship etc).

37.9

In section 17 (acquisition of British overseas territories citizenship by
registration: minors), after subsection (6) insert—

37.9.7

This section is subject to sections  31 ,  33  and  36  of the Illegal
Migration Act 2023 (restriction of eligibility for citizenship etc).

37.10

In section 18 (acquisition of British overseas territories citizenship by
naturalisation), after subsection (3) insert—

37.10.4

This section is subject to sections  31 ,  33  and  36  of the Illegal
Migration Act 2023 (restriction of eligibility for citizenship etc).

37.11

In section 22 (right to registration as British overseas territories citizen
replacing right to resume citizenship of UK etc), after subsection (4) insert—

37.11.5

This section is subject to sections  31 ,  33  and  36  of the Illegal
Migration Act 2023 (restriction of eligibility for citizenship etc).

37.12

In section 24 (renunication and resumption of British overseas territories
citizenship), at the beginning insert  “Subject to sections  31 ,  33  and  36
of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 (restriction of eligibility for citizenship
etc),” .

37.13

In section 27(1) (registration of minors as British overseas citizens), at the
beginning insert  “Subject to sections  31 ,  34  and  36  of the Illegal
Migration Act 2023 (restriction of eligibility for citizenship etc),” .

37.14

In section 32 (registration of minors as British subjects), at the beginning
insert  “Subject to sections  31 ,  35  and  36  of the Illegal Migration Act
2023 (restriction of eligibility for citizenship etc),” .

### Legal proceedings

#### Suspensive claims: interpretation

38

38.1

The definitions in subsections  (2)  to  (8)  have effect for the purposes of
this section and sections  39  to  53 .

38.2

“ Suspensive claim ” means—

38.2.a

a serious harm suspensive claim (see section  39 ), or

38.2.b

a removal conditions suspensive claim.

38.3

“ Removal conditions suspensive claim ” means a claim by a person who has been
given a removal notice that the person does not meet the removal conditions.

38.4

“ Removal notice ” means a notice of removal given to a person under section
8 (2) (a)  (further provisions about removal).

38.5

“ Third country removal notice ” means a removal notice under which a person
is to be removed to a third country.

38.6

“ Third country ”, in relation to a person, means a country or territory other
than—

38.6.a

a country of which the person is a national, or

38.6.b

a country or territory in which the person has obtained a passport or other
document of identity.

38.7

“ Removal conditions ” means the four conditions in section  2  (duty to make
arrangements for removal).

38.8

“ Working day ” means a day other than a Saturday, a Sunday, Christmas Day,
Good Friday or a bank holiday under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act
1971 in any part of the United Kingdom.

38.9

Where a removal notice specifies part of a country or territory, references in
this section and sections  39  to  53  to the country or territory specified
in the removal notice are to the part of the country or territory so
specified.

#### Serious harm suspensive claims: interpretation

39

39.1

The definitions in subsections  (2)  and  (3)  have effect for the purposes of
section  38 , this section and sections  40  to  53 .

39.2

A “ serious harm suspensive claim ” means a claim by a person (“ P ”) who has
been given a third country removal notice that the serious harm condition is
met in relation to P.

39.3

The “serious harm condition” is that P would, before the end of the relevant
period, face a real, imminent and foreseeable risk of serious and irreversible
harm if removed from the United Kingdom under this Act to the country or
territory specified in the third country removal notice.

39.4

The following are examples of harm that constitute serious and irreversible
harm for the purposes of this Act—

39.4.a

death;

39.4.b

persecution falling within subsection (2)(a) or (b) of section 31 of the
Nationality and Borders Act 2022 (read together with subsections (1) and (3)
of that section) (Article 1(A)(2) of the Refugee Convention: persecution)
where P is not able to avail themselves of protection from that persecution;

39.4.c

torture;

39.4.d

inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment;

39.4.e

onward removal from the country or territory specified in the third country
removal notice to another country or territory where P would face a real,
imminent and foreseeable risk of any harm mentioned in paragraphs  (a)  to
(d) .

39.4A

But see sections  2  and  4  of the Safety of Rwanda (Asylum and Immigration)
Act 2024 (safety of the Republic of Rwanda).

39.5

The following are examples of harm that do not constitute serious and
irreversible harm for the purposes of this Act—

39.5.a

persecution not falling within subsection (2)(a) or (b) of section 31 of the
Nationality and Borders Act 2022 (read together with subsections (1) and (3)
of that section);

39.5.b

persecution falling within subsection (2)(a) or (b) of section 31 of that Act
(read together with subsections (1) and (3) of that section) where P is able
to avail themselves of protection from that persecution;

39.5.c

where the standard of healthcare available to P in the relevant country or
territory is lower than is available to P in the United Kingdom, any harm
resulting from that different standard of healthcare (including, in
particular, a less favourable medical prognosis).

39.6

Subsection  (7)  is an example of harm that is unlikely to constitute serious
and irreversible harm for the purposes of this Act.

39.7

Any pain or distress resulting from a medical treatment that is available to P
in the United Kingdom not being available to P in the relevant country or
territory.

39.8

For the purposes of subsections  (4)  and  (5) —

39.8.a

protection from persecution can be provided by—

39.8.a.i

the government of the relevant country or territory, or

39.8.a.ii

any party or organisation, including any international organisation,
controlling the relevant country or territory or a substantial part of it;

39.8.b

P is to be taken to be able to avail themselves of protection from persecution
if—

39.8.b.i

the government, party or organisation mentioned in paragraph  (a)  takes
reasonable steps to prevent the persecution by operating an effective legal
system for the detection, prosecution and punishment of acts constituting
persecution, and

39.8.b.ii

P is able to access the protection.

39.9

In this section “ relevant period ” means the total period of time that it
would take—

39.9.a

for P to make a human rights claim in relation to P’s removal from the United
Kingdom under this Act (see section  41  (relationship with other
proceedings)),

39.9.b

for the claim to be decided by the Secretary of State, and

39.9.c

for any application for judicial review in relation to a decision of the
Secretary of State to refuse the claim to be exhausted.

#### Meaning of “serious and irreversible harm”

40

40.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend section  39  to make provision
about the meaning of “ serious and irreversible harm ” for the purposes of
this Act.

40.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may in particular—

40.2.a

define any aspect of serious and irreversible harm;

40.2.b

give examples of what is or is not to be treated as serious and irreversible
harm.

40.3

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may not amend subsection  (4)  of section
39  to remove any example of serious and irreversible harm which is listed in
that subsection when this Act is passed.

40.4

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may make consequential amendments to this
Act.

#### Relationship with other proceedings

41

41.1

A “serious harm suspensive claim” made under this Act is not a “ human rights
claim ” for the purposes of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002
or the Nationality and Borders Act 2022.

41.2

Accordingly no right of appeal under section 82(1)(a) or (b) of the
Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (appeal against refusal of
protection claim or human rights claim) arises in relation to any decision of
the Secretary of State made under section  42  (serious harm suspensive
claims),  46  (out of time claims) or  48  (new matters) of this Act in
respect of a serious harm suspensive claim.

41.3

The making of a serious harm suspensive claim by a person (or the possibility
of a person making such a claim) does not affect any ability of the person to
make a human rights claim in relation to their removal from the United Kingdom
to a third country under this Act.

41.4

Where—

41.4.a

a person subject to removal to a third country under this Act makes a human
rights claim in relation to their removal to that third country, and

41.4.b

the Secretary of State decides to refuse the claim,

there is no right of appeal under section 82(1)(a) or (b) of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 in relation to that decision.

41.5

Subsection  (4)  does not affect any ability of the person to make an
application for judicial review in relation to a decision of the Secretary of
State to refuse the claim (but section  5 (1) (d)  (disregard of application
for judicial review) applies in relation to any such application).

41.6

In section 82(3) of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002, after
”Part” insert  “and in section  41 (4)  of the Illegal Migration Act 2023
(relationship with other proceedings)” .

#### Serious harm suspensive claims

42

42.1

This section applies where, within the claim period, a person makes a serious
harm suspensive claim to the Secretary of State.

42.2

The Secretary of State must, before the end of the decision period, consider
the claim and make one of the following decisions—

42.2.a

that the serious harm condition is met in relation to the person, or

42.2.b

that the serious harm condition is not met in relation to the person.

42.3

If the Secretary of State makes a decision under subsection  (2) (b) , the
Secretary of State may also certify that the claim is clearly unfounded (see
sections  44 (1) (c)  and  45  (appeals)).

42.4

In considering a serious harm suspensive claim, the Secretary of State must
take into account the following factors—

42.4.a

any assurances given by the government of the country or territory specified
in the removal notice;

42.4.b

any support and services (including in particular medical services) provided
by that government;

42.4.c

in circumstances where it is reasonable to expect a person to have provided
certain evidence and they have not done so, the fact that the person has not
provided such evidence.

42.5

A claim under subsection  (1)  must—

42.5.a

contain compelling evidence that the serious harm condition is met in relation
to the person,

42.5.b

contain the prescribed information, and

42.5.c

be made in the prescribed form and manner.

In this subsection “ prescribed ” means prescribed in regulations made by the
Secretary of State.

42.6

Before the end of the claim period or the decision period in relation to a
serious harm suspensive claim, the Secretary of State may, by notice to the
person concerned, extend the period where the Secretary of State considers it
appropriate to do so.

42.7

In this section—

“ claim period ” means the period of 8 days beginning with the day on which
the person is given the third country removal notice; “ decision period ”
means the period of 4 days beginning with— the day on which the person makes
the serious harm suspensive claim, or where section  46 (3)  or  (6)  (out of
time claims) applies, the day on which the Secretary of State makes the
decision mentioned in section  46 (3)  or is given notice of the determination
of the Upper Tribunal mentioned in section  46 (6)  (as the case may be).

#### Removal conditions suspensive claims

43

43.1

This section applies where, within the claim period, a person makes a removal
conditions suspensive claim to the Secretary of State.

43.2

The Secretary of State must, before the end of the decision period, consider
the claim and make one of the following decisions—

43.2.a

that the person does not meet the removal conditions, or

43.2.b

that the person meets the removal conditions.

43.3

If the Secretary of State makes a decision under subsection  (2) (b) , the
Secretary of State may also certify that the claim is clearly unfounded (see
sections  44 (1) (c)  and  45  (appeals)).

43.4

In considering a removal conditions suspensive claim in circumstances where it
is reasonable to expect a person to have provided certain evidence and they
have not done so, the Secretary of State must take into account the fact that
the person has not provided such evidence.

43.5

A claim under subsection  (1)  must—

43.5.a

contain compelling evidence that the person does not meet the removal
conditions,

43.5.b

contain the prescribed information, and

43.5.c

be made in the prescribed form and manner.

In this subsection “ prescribed ” means prescribed in regulations made by the
Secretary of State.

43.6

Before the end of the claim period or the decision period in relation to a
removal conditions suspensive claim, the Secretary of State may, by notice to
the person concerned, extend the period where the Secretary of State considers
it appropriate to do so.

43.7

In this section—

“ claim period ” means the period of 8 days beginning with the day on which
the person is given the removal notice; “ decision period ” means the period
of 4 days beginning with— the day on which the person makes the removal
conditions suspensive claim, or where section  46 (3)  or  (6)  (out of time
claims) applies, the day on which the Secretary of State makes the decision
mentioned in section  46 (3)  or is given notice of the determination of the
Upper Tribunal mentioned in section  46 (6)  (as the case may be).

#### Appeals in relation to suspensive claims

44

44.1

This section applies if—

44.1.a

a person makes a suspensive claim,

44.1.b

the Secretary of State makes a decision under section  42 (2) (b)  or  43 (2)
(b)  (refusal of suspensive claim) in relation to the claim, and

44.1.c

the Secretary of State has not certified the claim as clearly unfounded under
section  42 (3)  or (as the case may be)  43 (3) .

44.2

The person may appeal to the Upper Tribunal against the decision mentioned in
subsection  (1) (b) .

44.3

An appeal under subsection  (2)  must be brought on the ground that—

44.3.a

in the case of a serious harm suspensive claim, the serious harm condition is
met in relation to the person;

44.3.b

in the case of a removal conditions suspensive claim, the person does not meet
the removal conditions,

and the notice of appeal must contain compelling evidence of such ground.

44.4

In considering an appeal in relation to a serious harm suspensive claim, the
Upper Tribunal must take into account the factors mentioned in section  42 (4)
.

44.5

In considering an appeal in relation to a removal conditions suspensive claim
in circumstances where it is reasonable to expect a person to have provided
certain evidence and they have not done so, the Upper Tribunal must take into
account the fact that the person has not provided such evidence.

44.6

Where an appeal is brought under subsection  (2) , the Upper Tribunal must
decide—

44.6.a

in relation to a serious harm suspensive claim, whether the serious harm
condition is met in relation to the person;

44.6.b

in relation to a removal conditions suspensive claim, whether the person meets
the removal conditions.

44.7

See section 13 of the Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act 2007 (right of
appeal to Court of Appeal etc) for provision about the only right of appeal
against a decision of the Upper Tribunal under this section.

#### Permission to appeal in relation to suspensive claims certified as clearly unfounded

45

45.1

This section applies if—

45.1.a

a person makes a suspensive claim,

45.1.b

the Secretary of State makes a decision under section  42 (2) (b)  or  43 (2)
(b)  (refusal of suspensive claim) in relation to the claim, and

45.1.c

the Secretary of State has certified the claim as clearly unfounded under
section  42 (3)  or (as the case may be)  43 (3) .

45.2

The person may not appeal to the Upper Tribunal against the decision mentioned
in subsection  (1) (b) , but they may apply to the Upper Tribunal for
permission to appeal to the Upper Tribunal against the decision.

45.3

In relation to a serious harm suspensive claim, the Upper Tribunal may grant
permission to appeal in response to a person’s application under subsection
(2)  only if it considers that there is compelling evidence that—

45.3.a

the serious harm condition is met in relation to the person, and

45.3.b

the risk mentioned in section  39 (3)  is obvious.

45.4

In relation to a removal conditions suspensive claim, the Upper Tribunal may
grant permission to appeal in response to a person’s application under
subsection  (2)  only if it considers that there is compelling evidence that
the person does not meet the removal conditions.

45.5

Unless the Upper Tribunal considers that an oral hearing is necessary to
secure that justice is done in a particular case, an application under
subsection  (2)  is to be determined by the Upper Tribunal only on the basis
of written submissions and evidence.

45.6

If the Upper Tribunal grants permission to appeal, the person may appeal to
the Upper Tribunal under section  44 (2)  against the decision mentioned in
subsection  (1) (b) .

45.7

There is no right of appeal under section 13 of the Tribunals, Courts and
Enforcement Act 2007 (right of appeal to Court of Appeal etc) in relation to a
decision of the Upper Tribunal on an application under this section.

45.8

See also section  51  (finality of certain decisions by the Upper Tribunal).

#### Suspensive claims out of time

46

46.1

This section applies if—

46.1.a

a person makes a suspensive claim after the end of the claim period (see
sections  42 (7)  and  43 (7) ) but before the person is removed from the
United Kingdom under this Act, and

46.1.b

the person has not—

46.1.b.i

in the case of a serious harm suspensive claim, made a previous serious harm
suspensive claim in relation to the same removal notice, or

46.1.b.ii

in the case of a removal conditions suspensive claim, made a previous removal
conditions suspensive claim in relation to the same removal notice.

46.2

The Secretary of State must, before the end of the decision period, consider
whether there were compelling reasons for the person not to make the claim
within the claim period.

46.3

If the Secretary of State decides that there were compelling reasons for the
person not to make the claim within the claim period, the Secretary of State
must consider the claim under section  42 (2)  (serious harm suspensive
claims) or (as the case may be)  43 (2)  (removal conditions suspensive
claims).

46.4

If the Secretary of State decides that there were not compelling reasons for
the person not to make the claim within the claim period, the person may apply
for a declaration from the Upper Tribunal that there were compelling reasons
for the person not to make the claim within the claim period.

46.5

An application under subsection  (4)  must—

46.5.a

contain compelling evidence that there were compelling reasons for the person
not to make the claim within the claim period, and

46.5.b

be determined by the Upper Tribunal only on the basis of written submissions
and evidence.

46.6

If the Upper Tribunal grants a declaration on an application under subsection
(4) , the Secretary of State must consider the claim under section  42 (2)  or
(as the case may be)  43 (2) .

46.7

There is no right of appeal under section 13 of the Tribunals, Courts and
Enforcement Act 2007 (right of appeal to Court of Appeal etc) in relation to a
decision of the Upper Tribunal on an application under subsection  (4) .

46.8

See also section  51  (finality of certain decisions by the Upper Tribunal).

46.9

Before the end of the decision period in relation to a suspensive claim
mentioned in subsection  (1) (a) , the Secretary of State may, by notice to
the person concerned, extend the period where the Secretary of State considers
it appropriate to do so.

46.10

In this section “ decision period ” means the period of 4 days beginning with
the day on which the person makes the suspensive claim.

#### Suspensive claims: duty to remove

47

47.1

A person who has been given a removal notice may not be removed from the
United Kingdom under this Act to the country or territory specified in the
removal notice during any of the following periods—

47.1.a

where the person makes a suspensive claim before the end of the claim period,
before the Secretary of State makes a decision under section  42 (2)  (serious
harm suspensive claim) or (as the case may be)  43 (2)  (removal conditions
suspensive claim) in relation to the claim;

47.1.b

where section  46  (out of time claims) applies in relation to a suspensive
claim made by the person, before the Secretary of State makes a decision under
section  46 (3)  or  (4)  in relation to the claim;

47.1.c

where the Secretary of State makes a decision under section  46 (4)  in
relation to a suspensive claim made by the person, before the process for
making an application to the Upper Tribunal under section  46 (4)  has been
exhausted;

47.1.d

where the Secretary of State is required by section  46 (3)  or  (6)  (out of
time claims) to consider a suspensive claim made by the person, before the
Secretary of State makes a decision under section  42 (2)  or (as the case may
be)  43 (2)  in relation to the claim;

47.1.e

where the Secretary of State makes a decision under section  42 (2) (b)  or
43 (2) (b)  (refusal of suspensive claim) in relation to a suspensive claim
made by the person, before the appeals process in relation to the decision has
been exhausted.

47.2

Where—

47.2.a

the Secretary of State makes a decision under section  42 (2) (a)  or  43 (2)
(a)  (acceptance of suspensive claim) in relation to a suspensive claim made
by a person, or

47.2.b

a person successfully appeals under section  44  (appeals) or section 2AA of
the Special Immigration Appeals Commission Act 1997 (appeals in relation to
the Illegal Migration Act 2023) against a decision of the Secretary of State
under section  42 (2) (b)  or  43 (2) (b)  (refusal of suspensive claim),

the person may not be removed from the United Kingdom under this Act to the
country or territory specified in the removal notice.

47.3

But if at any time it appears to the Secretary of State that there has been a
change of circumstances in relation to the person—

47.3.a

in a case within subsection  (2) (a) , the Secretary of State may revise the
decision and instead make a decision under section  42 (2) (b)  or (as the
case may be)  43 (2) (b)  in relation to the claim;

47.3.b

in a case within subsection  (2) (b) , the Secretary of State or an
immigration officer may give a new removal notice to the person (and
accordingly a new claim period begins in relation to the making of a further
suspensive claim).

47.4

In subsection  (3)  the reference to a change of circumstances in relation to
a person includes in particular where any—

47.4.a

human rights claim, or

47.4.b

application for judicial review,

made by the person in relation to their removal from the United Kingdom is not
successful.

47.5

Where the Secretary of State makes a decision under section  42 (2) (b)  or
43 (2) (b)  in relation to a suspensive claim, the person may, subject to any
appeal (see sections  44 ,  45  and  53 ), be removed from the United Kingdom
under this Act to the country or territory specified in the removal notice.

#### Upper Tribunal consideration of new matters

48

48.1

This section  applies where the Upper Tribunal is considering—

48.1.a

an appeal by a person under section  44 (2)  (appeals in relation to
suspensive claims), or

48.1.b

an application by a person under section  45 (2)  (permission to appeal:
claims certified as clearly unfounded),

in relation to a decision of the Secretary of State under section  42 (2) (b)
or  43 (2) (b)  (refusal of suspensive claim).

48.2

The Upper Tribunal may consider any matter which it considers relevant to the
substance of the decision.

48.3

But the Upper Tribunal must not consider a new matter unless the condition in
subsection  (5)  is met.

48.4

A matter is a “new matter” if—

48.4.a

it is raised by the person in the course of the appeal or application, and

48.4.b

the person did not provide details of the matter to the Secretary of State
before the end of the claim period for the suspensive claim (see sections  42
(7)  and  43 (7) ).

48.5

The condition in  this subsection  is that—

48.5.a

within the relevant period the Secretary of State has given the Upper Tribunal
consent to consider the new matter, or

48.5.b

where the Secretary of State has not given such consent within the relevant
period, the Upper Tribunal determines that there were compelling reasons for
the person not to have provided details of the matter to the Secretary of
State before the end of the claim period.

48.6

The Secretary of State may provide consent under subsection  (5) (a)  only if
the Secretary of State considers that there were compelling reasons for the
person not to have provided details of the matter before the end of the claim
period.

48.7

In subsection  (5)  “ relevant period ” means the period of 3 working days
beginning with the day after the day on which the new matter is raised by the
person in the course of the appeal or application.

48.8

There is no right of appeal under section 13 of the Tribunals, Courts and
Enforcement Act 2007 (right of appeal to Court of Appeal etc) in relation to a
decision of the Upper Tribunal to make or not to make a determination under
subsection  (5) (b) .

48.9

See also section  51  (finality of certain decisions by the Upper Tribunal).

#### Appeals in relation to suspensive claims: timing

49

49.1

Tribunal Procedure Rules must secure that in relation to an appeal under
section  44 (2)  (appeal against decision to refuse suspensive claim)—

49.1.a

the notice of appeal must be given to the Upper Tribunal within the period of
7 working days beginning with—

49.1.a.i

the day on which the appellant was given notice of the decision against which
the appeal is brought, or

49.1.a.ii

where permission to appeal has been granted under section  45 (2) , the day on
which the appellant was given notice of the Upper Tribunal’s decision to grant
such permission;

49.1.b

the Upper Tribunal must make a decision on the appeal, and give notice of that
decision to the parties, within the period of 23 working days beginning with
the day on which the appellant gave notice of appeal to the Upper Tribunal.

49.2

Tribunal Procedure Rules must secure that in relation to an application for
permission to appeal under section  45 (2)  (permission to appeal: claims
certified as clearly unfounded)—

49.2.a

the application must be made to the Upper Tribunal within the period of 7
working days beginning with the day on which the applicant was given notice
that the Secretary of State had certified the person’s suspensive claim as
clearly unfounded;

49.2.b

the Upper Tribunal must determine the application, and give notice of that
determination to the parties, within the period of 7 working days beginning
with the day on which the application was made to the Upper Tribunal.

49.3

Tribunal Procedure Rules must secure that in relation to an application for a
declaration under section  46 (4)  (out of time claims)—

49.3.a

the application must be made to the Upper Tribunal within the period of 7
working days beginning with the day on which the applicant was given notice of
the decision in relation to which the application is brought;

49.3.b

the Upper Tribunal must determine the application, and give notice of that
determination to the parties, within the period of 7 working days beginning
with the day on which the application was made to the Upper Tribunal.

49.4

But Tribunal Procedure Rules must—

49.4.a

secure that the Upper Tribunal may, if it is satisfied that it is the only way
to secure that justice is done in a particular case, order that any period of
time mentioned in subsection  (1) ,  (2)  or  (3)  is to be extended to such
period as the Upper Tribunal may order, and

49.4.b

without prejudice to paragraph (a), secure that the Upper Tribunal may order
that any period of time mentioned in subsection  (1) (b)  or  (2) (b)  is to
be extended by a period of up to 3 working days where a new matter (within the
meaning of section  48 (4) ) is raised in the course of the appeal or
application.

#### Procedure for Tribunal Procedure Rules

50

50.1

The first time after the passing of this Act that Tribunal Procedure Rules are
made for the purposes of any of sections  44  to  49  (appeals in relation to
suspensive claims), the Rules may be made by the Lord Chancellor rather than
by the Tribunal Procedure Committee.

50.2

Before making Tribunal Procedure Rules by virtue of subsection  (1) , the Lord
Chancellor must consult—

50.2.a

the Senior President of Tribunals,

50.2.b

the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales,

50.2.c

the Lord President of the Court of Session, and

50.2.d

the Lord Chief Justice of Northern Ireland.

50.3

The Lord Chancellor is not required to undertake any other consultation before
making Tribunal Procedure Rules by virtue of subsection  (1) .

50.4

A requirement to consult under subsection  (2)  may be satisfied by
consultation that took place wholly or partly before the passing of this Act.

50.5

Tribunal Procedure Rules made by virtue of subsection  (1)  are to be made by
statutory instrument.

50.6

A statutory instrument containing Tribunal Procedure Rules made by virtue of
subsection  (1)  must be laid before Parliament after being made.

50.7

Tribunal Procedure Rules contained in a statutory instrument laid before
Parliament under subsection  (6)  cease to have effect at the end of the
period of 40 days beginning with the day on which the instrument is made
unless, during that period, the instrument is approved by a resolution of each
House of Parliament.

50.8

In calculating the period of 40 days, no account is to be taken of any whole
days that fall within a period during which—

50.8.a

Parliament is dissolved or prorogued, or

50.8.b

either House of Parliament is adjourned for more than four days.

50.9

If Tribunal Procedure Rules cease to have effect as a result of subsection
(7) —

50.9.a

that does not affect the validity of anything previously done under the Rules,
and

50.9.b

subsection  (1)  applies again as if the Rules had not been made.

50.10

In this section “ Tribunal Procedure Committee ” means the committee of that
name constituted under Part 2 of Schedule 5 to the Tribunals, Courts and
Enforcement Act 2007.

#### Finality of certain decisions by the Upper Tribunal

51

51.1

Subsections  (2)  and  (3)  apply in relation to a decision by the Upper
Tribunal—

51.1.a

to grant or refuse permission to appeal in response to an application under
section  45 (2)  (permission to appeal: claims certified as clearly
unfounded),

51.1.b

to grant or refuse an application for a declaration under section  46 (4)
(out of time claims), or

51.1.c

to make or not to make a determination under section  48 (5) (b)  (new
matters).

51.2

The decision is final, and not liable to be questioned or set aside in any
other court.

51.3

In particular—

51.3.a

the Upper Tribunal is not to be regarded as having exceeded its powers by
reason of any error made in reaching the decision;

51.3.b

the supervisory jurisdiction does not extend to, and no application or
petition for judicial review may be made or brought in relation to, the
decision.

51.4

Subsections  (2)  and  (3)  do not apply so far as the decision involves or
gives rise to any question as to whether—

51.4.a

the Upper Tribunal has or had a valid application before it under section  45
(2)  or  46 (4) ,

51.4.b

the Upper Tribunal is or was properly constituted for the purpose of dealing
with the application or, in the case of a decision mentioned in subsection
(1) (c) , for the purpose of making the decision, or

51.4.c

the Upper Tribunal is acting or has acted—

51.4.c.i

in bad faith, or

51.4.c.ii

in such a procedurally defective way as amounts to a fundamental breach of the
principles of natural justice.

51.5

In this section—

“ decision ” includes any purported decision; “ the supervisory jurisdiction ”
means the supervisory jurisdiction of— the High Court, in England and Wales or
Northern Ireland, or the Court of Session, in Scotland.

#### Judges of First-tier Tribunal and Upper Tribunal

52

In section 5(1) of the Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act 2007 (judges and
other members of the Upper Tribunal), after paragraph (c) insert—

52.ca

is a judge of the First-tier Tribunal,

.

#### Special Immigration Appeals Commission

53

53.1

This section applies where the Secretary of State makes a decision under
section  42 (2) (b)  or  43 (2) (b)  (refusal of suspensive claim) in relation
to a suspensive claim.

53.2

An appeal under section  44 , or an application for permission to appeal under
section  45 , in relation to the decision may not be brought or continued if
the Secretary of State acting in person certifies that the decision was made
wholly or partly in reliance on information which, in the opinion of the
Secretary of State, should not be made public—

53.2.a

in the interests of national security,

53.2.b

in the interests of the relationship between the United Kingdom and another
country, or

53.2.c

otherwise in the public interest.

53.3

Where a certificate is issued under subsection  (2) , any pending appeal, or
application for permission to appeal, in relation to the decision lapses.

53.4

The Special Immigration Appeals Commission Act 1997 is amended as follows.

53.5

After section 2 insert—

########## Jurisdiction: appeals in relation to the Illegal Migration Act 2023

53.5.2AA

53.5.2AA.1

A person may appeal to the Special Immigration Appeals Commission against a
refusal decision if—

53.5.2AA.1.a

the person would, but for a certificate of the Secretary of State under
section  53  of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 (Special Immigration Appeals
Commission), be able to—

53.5.2AA.1.a.i

appeal against the decision under section  44  of that Act, or

53.5.2AA.1.a.ii

apply for permission to appeal against the decision under section  45  of that
Act, or

53.5.2AA.1.b

an appeal against the decision under section  44  of that Act, or an
application for permission to appeal against the decision under section  45
of that Act, lapsed under section  53  of that Act by virtue of a certificate
of the Secretary of State under that section.

53.5.2AA.2

Sections  44 (3)  to  (6)  and  48 (2)  to  (7)  of the Illegal Migration Act
2023 apply, with the modification in subsection  (3) , in relation to an
appeal under this section as they apply in relation to an appeal under section
44  of that Act.

53.5.2AA.3

The modification is that references to the Upper Tribunal are to be read as
references to the Special Immigration Appeals Commission.

53.5.2AA.4

In this section “ refusal decision ” means a decision of the Secretary State
under section  42 (2) (b)  or  43 (2) (b)  of the Illegal Migration Act 2023
(refusal of suspensive claim).

########## Finality of certain decisions by the Special Immigration Appeals Commission

53.5.2AB

53.5.2AB.1

Subsections  (2)  and  (3)  apply in relation to a decision by the Special
Immigration Appeals Commission to make or not to make a determination under
section  48 (5) (b)  of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 (consideration of new
matters), as applied by section  2AA (2)  of this Act.

53.5.2AB.2

The decision is final, and not liable to be questioned or set aside in any
other court.

53.5.2AB.3

In particular—

53.5.2AB.3.a

the Special Immigration Appeals Commission is not to be regarded as having
exceeded its powers by reason of any error made in reaching the decision;

53.5.2AB.3.b

the supervisory jurisdiction does not extend to, and no application or
petition for judicial review may be made or brought in relation to, the
decision.

53.5.2AB.4

Subsections  (2)  and  (3)  do not apply so far as the decision involves or
gives rise to any question as to whether—

53.5.2AB.4.a

the Special Immigration Appeals Commission is or was properly constituted for
the purpose of making the decision, or

53.5.2AB.4.b

the Special Immigration Appeals Commission is acting or has acted—

53.5.2AB.4.b.i

in bad faith, or

53.5.2AB.4.b.ii

in such a procedurally defective way as amounts to a fundamental breach of the
principles of natural justice.

53.5.2AB.5

In this section—

“ decision ” includes any purported decision; “ the supervisory jurisdiction ”
means the supervisory jurisdiction of— the High Court, in England and Wales or
Northern Ireland, or the Court of Session, in Scotland.

53.6

In the following provisions, for “2 or 2B” substitute  “2,  2AA  or 2B” —

53.6.a

section 5(1)(a) and (b);

53.6.b

section 5(2);

53.6.c

section 6A(1);

53.6.d

section 6A(2)(a).

53.7

In section 5 (procedure in relation to jurisdiction under sections 2 and 3)—

53.7.a

in the heading, after “2” insert  “,  2AA ” ;

53.7.b

in subsection (9), at the beginning, insert  “Subject to subsection (10),” ;

53.7.c

after subsection (9), insert—

53.7.c.10

A statutory instrument containing the first rules made for the purposes of
section 2AA (appeals in relation to the Illegal Migration Act 2023) must be
laid before Parliament after being made.

53.7.c.11

Rules contained in a statutory instrument laid before Parliament under
subsection  (10)  cease to have effect at the end of the period of 40 days
beginning with the day on which the instrument is made unless, during that
period, the instrument is approved by a resolution of each House of
Parliament.

53.7.c.12

In calculating the period of 40 days, no account is to be taken of any whole
days that fall within a period during which—

53.7.c.12.a

Parliament is dissolved or prorogued, or

53.7.c.12.b

either House of Parliament is adjourned for more than four days.

53.7.c.13

If rules cease to have effect as a result of subsection  (11) —

53.7.c.13.a

that does not affect the validity of anything previously done under the rules,
and

53.7.c.13.b

subsection  (10)  applies again as if the rules had not been made.

#### Interim remedies

54

54.1

This section applies to any court proceedings relating to a decision to remove
a person from the United Kingdom under this Act (whether the proceedings
involve consideration of Convention rights or otherwise).

54.2

Any power of the court or tribunal to grant an interim remedy (whether on an
application of the person or otherwise) is restricted as follows.

54.3

The court or tribunal may not grant an interim remedy that prevents or delays,
or that has the effect of preventing or delaying, the removal of the person
from the United Kingdom in pursuance of the decision.

54.4

In this section—

“ Convention rights ” has the same meaning as in the Human Rights Act 1998
(see section 1(1) of that Act); “ court proceedings ” means proceedings in any
court or tribunal (including, in particular, proceedings on an application for
judicial review); “ decision ” includes any purported decision; “ interim
remedy ” means any interim remedy or relief however described (including, in
particular, an interim injunction or interdict).

#### Interim measures of the European Court of Human Rights

55

55.1

This section applies where the European Court of Human Rights indicates an
interim measure in proceedings relating to the intended removal of a person
from the United Kingdom under, or purportedly under, this Act.

55.2

A Minister of the Crown may (but need not) determine that the duty in section
2 (1)  (duty to make arrangements for removal) is not to apply in relation to
the person.

55.3

A decision as to whether or not to make a determination under subsection  (2)
is to be taken personally by the Minister of the Crown.

55.4

In considering whether to make a determination under subsection  (2) , the
Minister may have regard to any matter that the Minister considers relevant,
including in particular the matter in subsection  (5) .

55.5

The matter mentioned in subsection  (4)  is the procedure by reference to
which the interim measure was indicated, including in particular—

55.5.a

whether the government of the United Kingdom was given an opportunity to
present observations and information before the interim measure was indicated;

55.5.b

the form of the decision to indicate the interim measure;

55.5.c

whether the European Court of Human Rights will take account of any
representations made to it by the government of the United Kingdom seeking
reconsideration, without undue delay, of the decision to indicate the interim
measure;

55.5.d

the likely duration of the interim measure and the timing of any substantive
determination by the European Court of Human Rights.

55.6

Where a Minister of the Crown does not make a determination under subsection
(2) , a person or body to which subsection  (7)  applies may not have regard,
in the circumstances mentioned in subsection  (7) , to the interim measure.

55.7

This subsection applies to—

55.7.a

the Secretary of State or an immigration officer when exercising a function
under section  2 (1)  or  8 (2) ,  (8)  or  (9)  (further provisions about
removal),

55.7.b

the Upper Tribunal when considering any application or appeal under this Act,
and

55.7.c

a court or tribunal when considering any application or appeal which relates
to a decision to remove a person from the United Kingdom under this Act.

55.8

No inference is to be drawn from this section as to whether or not a person or
body mentioned in subsection  (7)  would otherwise have been required to have
regard to the interim measure.

55.9

Nothing in this Act requires the Secretary of State or an immigration officer
to effect the removal of a person from the United Kingdom pending a decision
by a Minister of the Crown as to whether or not to make a determination under
subsection  (2) .

55.10

In this section—

“ decision ” includes any purported decision; “ determination ” includes any
purported determination.

#### Legal aid

56

56.1

Schedule 1 to the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012
(civil legal services) is amended as mentioned in subsections (2) to (4).

56.2

In Part 1 (services), in paragraph 19 (judicial review)—

56.2.a

after sub-paragraph (6) insert—

56.2.a.6A

Sub-paragraph (5) does not exclude services provided to an individual who is
subject to removal to a third country under the Illegal Migration Act 2023, in
relation to judicial review of a refusal of a human rights claim that—

56.2.a.6A.a

arises from Article 2 or 3 of the Human Rights Convention, and

56.2.a.6A.b

is made by the individual.

;

56.2.b

in sub-paragraph (10) insert at the appropriate places—

“ human rights claim ” has the meaning given by section 113 of the
Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002;

;

“ “the Human Rights Convention ” has the meaning given by paragraph 30 of this
Part of this Schedule;

;

“ “third country ” has the meaning given by  section 38  of the Illegal
Migration Act 2023.

56.3

In that Part, after paragraph 31B insert—

########## Removal notices under the Illegal Migration Act 2023

56.3.31C

56.3.31C.1

Civil legal services provided to an individual who has received a removal
notice, in relation to the removal notice (including in relation to a
suspensive claim relating to the removal notice, and an application under
section 46 (4)  of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 as regards such a claim).

56.3.31C.2

Sub-paragraph (1)  is subject to the exclusions in Parts 2 and 3 of this
Schedule.

56.3.31C.3

In this paragraph “removal notice” and “suspensive claim” have the meaning
given by  section 38  of the Illegal Migration Act 2023.

56.4

In Part 3 (advocacy: exclusions and exceptions) after paragraph 16 insert—

56.4.16A

Advocacy in proceedings in the Upper Tribunal under any of sections  44  to
49  of the Illegal Migration Act 2023, or under Tribunal Procedure Rules made
for the purposes of any of those sections.

56.5

In regulation 11(9) of the Civil Legal Aid (Merits Criteria) Regulations 2013
( S.I. 2013/104 ) (qualifying for civil legal services: cases in which merits
criteria do not apply)—

56.5.a

omit the “or” at the end of sub-paragraph (d);

56.5.b

after sub-paragraph (e) insert

, or

56.5.b.f

in relation to any matter described in  paragraph 31C  of Part 1 of Schedule 1
to the Act (removal notices under the Illegal Migration Act 2023).

56.6

The Access to Justice (Northern Ireland) Order 2003 ( S.I. 2003/435 (N.I. 10)
) is amended in accordance with subsections  (7)  and  (8) .

56.7

In Article 14 (decisions about provision of funded services), after paragraph
(2A) insert—

56.7.2AA

But paragraph (2A) does not apply to a grant of representation for the
purposes of—

56.7.2AA.a

proceedings before the Upper Tribunal mentioned in paragraph 2(ic) of Schedule
2 (proceedings under or for the purposes of the Illegal Migration Act 2023),

56.7.2AA.b

proceedings before the Special Immigration Appeals Commission under or by
virtue of section 2AA of the Special Immigration Appeals Commission Act 1997
(jurisdiction: appeals in relation to the Illegal Migration Act 2023), or
under rules under section 5 of that Act made for the purposes of that section,
or

56.7.2AA.c

an appeal to the Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court in respect of
proceedings mentioned in sub-paragraph  (a)  or  (b) .

56.8

In paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 (civil legal services: exceptions to excluded
services), after paragraph (ib) insert—

56.8.ic

proceedings before the Upper Tribunal under any of sections  44  to  49  of
the Illegal Migration Act 2023, or under Tribunal Procedure Rules made for the
purposes of any of those sections,

56.8.id

proceedings before the Upper Tribunal on an application for judicial review
within the meaning of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 (see section  5 (6)  of
that Act), where the application relates to that Act,

.

56.9

The Civil Legal Services (General) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 ( S.R.
(N.I.) 2015 No. 195 ) are amended in accordance with subsections  (10)  to
(14) .

56.10

In regulation 2 (interpretation), in the definition of “representation (higher
courts)”, in paragraph (f), after “2(ib)” insert  “, (ic) or  (id) ” .

56.11

In regulation 31 (applications for advice and assistance)—

56.11.a

in paragraph (1), after “Subject to” insert  “paragraph (1A) and” ,

56.11.b

after paragraph (1), insert—

56.11.b.1A

An application for advice and assistance may be made to a supplier by an
applicant by telephone where the applicant is being detained under paragraph
16(2C) of Schedule 2 to the Immigration Act 1971 (detention under authority of
immigration officer for the purposes of the Illegal Migration Act 2023) or
section 62(2A) of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (detention
under authority of Secretary of State for the purposes of the Illegal
Migration Act 2023).

, and

56.11.c

in paragraph (3), after “except where” insert  “paragraph (1A),”

56.12

In regulation 32 (extensions)—

56.12.a

in paragraph (1), for “paragraph (2)” substitute  “paragraphs (2) and (2A)” ,
and

56.12.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

56.12.b.2A

No extension shall be required under paragraph (1) if the advice and
assistance is advice and assistance mentioned in regulation 4(1) (n)  of the
Financial Regulations (advice and assistance relating to removal notices under
the Illegal Migration Act 2023).

56.13

In regulation 41 (applications for certificates)—

56.13.a

in paragraph (2), after “Subject to” insert  “paragraph (2A) and” ,

56.13.b

after paragraph (2), insert—

56.13.b.2A

An application for a certificate under this Part may be made to a supplier by
an applicant by telephone where the applicant is being detained under
paragraph 16(2C) of Schedule 2 to the Immigration Act 1971 (detention under
authority of immigration officer for the purposes of the Illegal Migration Act
2023) or section 62(2A) of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002
(detention under authority of Secretary of State for the purposes of the
Illegal Migration Act 2023).

,

56.13.c

in paragraph (3), after “The applicant shall” insert  “, except where
paragraph (2A) applies,” , and

56.13.d

in paragraph (3)(b), after “met” insert  “(where they apply)” .

56.14

In regulation 43 (determination of applications for certificates)—

56.14.a

in paragraph (1), for “paragraph (2)” substitute  “paragraphs (2) and (3)” ,
and

56.14.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

56.14.b.3

But paragraphs (1) and (2) do not apply to an application for a certificate in
respect of—

56.14.b.3.a

proceedings before the Upper Tribunal mentioned in paragraph 2(ic) of Schedule
2 to the Order (proceedings under or for the purposes of the Illegal Migration
Act 2023),

56.14.b.3.b

proceedings before the Special Immigration Appeals Commission under or by
virtue of section 2AA of the Special Immigration Appeals Commission Act 1997
(jurisdiction: appeals in relation to the Illegal Migration Act 2023), or
under rules under section 5 of that Act made for the purposes of that section,
or

56.14.b.3.c

an appeal to the Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court in respect of
proceedings mentioned in sub-paragraph  (a)  or  (b) .

56.15

In regulation 4 of the Civil Legal Services (Financial) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2015 ( S.R. (N.I.) 2015 No. 196 ) (exceptions from requirement to
make a determination in respect of an individual’s financial resources)—

56.15.a

in paragraph (1), after sub-paragraph (m) insert—

56.15.a.n

advice and assistance provided to an individual who has received a removal
notice, in relation to the removal notice, and such advice and assistance—

56.15.a.n.i

includes advice and assistance in relation to a suspensive claim relating to
the removal notice, and an application under section  46 (4)  of the Illegal
Migration Act 2023 as regards such a claim, but

56.15.a.n.ii

does not include advice and assistance in relation to an application for
judicial review within the meaning of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 (see
section  5 (6)  of that Act) relating to the removal notice;

56.15.a.o

representation in respect of—

56.15.a.o.i

proceedings before the Upper Tribunal mentioned in paragraph 2(ic) of Schedule
2 to the Order (proceedings under or for the purposes of the Illegal Migration
Act 2023),

56.15.a.o.ii

proceedings before the Special Immigration Appeals Commission under or by
virtue of section 2AA of the Special Immigration Appeals Commission Act 1997
(jurisdiction: appeals in relation to the Illegal Migration Act 2023), or
under rules under section 5 of that Act made for the purposes of that section,
or

56.15.a.o.iii

an appeal to the Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court in respect of
proceedings mentioned in paragraph  (i)  or  (ii) .

;

56.15.b

in paragraph (3), at the appropriate places insert—

“ removal notice ” has the meaning given by section  38  of the Illegal
Migration Act 2023;

“ suspensive claim ” has the meaning given by section  38  of the Illegal
Migration Act 2023;

.

### Age assessments etc

#### Decisions relating to a person’s age

57

57.1

This section applies if a relevant authority decides the age of a person (“ P
”) who meets the four conditions in section  2  (duty to make arrangements for
removal), whether that decision is for the purposes of this Act or otherwise.

57.2

If the decision is made on an age assessment under section 50 or 51 of the
Nationality and Borders Act 2022, P may not bring an appeal against the
decision under section 54(2) of that Act.

57.3

Subsections  (4)  and  (5)  apply if P makes an application for judicial
review of—

57.3.a

the decision mentioned in subsection  (1) , or

57.3.b

any decision to make arrangements for the person’s removal from the United
Kingdom under this Act which is taken on the basis of that decision.

57.4

The application does not prevent the exercise of any duty or power under this
Act to make arrangements for the person’s removal from the United Kingdom.

57.5

The court or tribunal must determine the application on the basis that the
person’s age is a matter of fact to be determined by the relevant authority;
and accordingly the court or tribunal—

57.5.a

may grant relief only on the basis that the decision was wrong in law, and

57.5.b

may not grant relief on the basis that the court or tribunal considers the
decision mentioned in subsection  (1)  was wrong as a matter of fact.

57.6

In this section “ relevant authority ” means—

57.6.a

the Secretary of State,

57.6.b

an immigration officer,

57.6.c

a designated person within the meaning of Part 4 (age assessments) of the
Nationality and Borders Act 2022,

57.6.d

a local authority within the meaning of that Part, subject to subsection  (7)
, or

57.6.e

a public authority within the meaning of that Part which is specified in
regulations under section 50(1)(b) of that Act (referral of age-disputed
person for age assessment).

57.7

This section applies in relation to a decision of a local authority which is a
decision within subsection  (1)  only if it is for the purposes, or also for
the purposes, of the local authority deciding whether or how to exercise any
of its functions under relevant children’s legislation within the meaning of
Part 4 of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022.

57.8

For the purposes of this section, the cases in which a relevant authority
decides the age of a person on an age assessment under section 50 or 51 of the
Nationality and Borders Act 2022 include where a relevant authority is treated
by virtue of regulations under section  58  of this Act as having decided that
a person is over the age of 18.

57.9

This section applies only in relation to a decision which is made after this
section comes into force.

57.10

The Nationality and Borders Act 2022 is amended as follows.

57.11

In section 54(6) (appeals relating to age assessments)—

57.11.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (a), and

57.11.b

at the end of paragraph (b) insert

, and

57.11.b.c

section 57  of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 (decisions relating to a
person’s age).

57.12

In section 56(1) (new information following age assessment or appeal), for
paragraph (b) (and the “and” at the end of that paragraph) substitute—

57.12.b

an appeal under section 54(2)—

57.12.b.i

could no longer be brought (ignoring any possibility of an appeal out of
time),

57.12.b.ii

has been finally determined, or

57.12.b.iii

may not be brought as a result of  section 57 (2)  of the Illegal Migration
Act 2023 (age assessments relating to removal under that Act), and

.

#### Age assessments: power to make provision about refusal to consent to scientific methods

58

58.1

The Secretary of State may make regulations about the effect of a decision by
a relevant person (“ P ”) not to consent to the use of a specified scientific
method for the purposes of an age assessment of P where there are no
reasonable grounds for P’s decision.

58.2

The regulations may provide that, in the circumstances set out in the
regulations—

58.2.a

section 52(7) of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 (refusal to consent to
scientific methods to be taken to damage credibility) does not apply, and

58.2.b

P is to be treated as if the decision-maker had decided that P was over the
age of 18.

58.3

In this section—

“ age assessment ” means an assessment under section 50 or 51 of the
Nationality and Borders Act 2022; “ decision-maker ” and “specified scientific
method” have the same meanings as in Part 4 of the Nationality and Borders Act
2022 (see section 49 of that Act); “ relevant person ” means a person who
meets the four conditions in section 2 (duty to make arrangements for
removal).

58.4

In Part 4 of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 (age assessments)—

58.4.a

in section 52 (use of scientific methods in age assessments), in subsection
(7), at the end insert  “(See also section  58  of the Illegal Migration Act
2023 (power to make provision about refusal to consent to scientific
methods).)” ;

58.4.b

in section 53 (regulations about age assessments), in subsection (1)(a)(iv),
after “method,” insert  “the circumstances in which a person may be considered
to have reasonable grounds for a decision not to consent and” .

### Inadmissibility of certain asylum and human rights claims

#### Inadmissibility of certain asylum and human rights claims

59

59.1

Part 4A of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (inadmissible
asylum claims) is amended as follows.

59.2

In section 80A (asylum claims by EU nationals)—

59.2.a

in subsection (1)—

59.2.a.i

after “claim” insert  “or a human rights claim” ;

59.2.a.ii

for “member State” substitute  “State listed in section 80AA(1)” ;

59.2.b

in subsection (2), for “An asylum” substitute  “A” ;

59.2.c

in subsection (3)—

59.2.c.i

for “an asylum” substitute  “a” ;

59.2.c.ii

after “82(1)(a)” insert  “or (b)” ;

59.2.c.iii

after “protection claim” insert  “or human rights claim” ;

59.2.d

in subsection (5)—

59.2.d.i

in the words before paragraph (a), omit from “where” to “national”;

59.2.d.ii

in paragraph (a), at the beginning insert  “in a case where the claimant is a
national of a State that is a signatory to the Human Rights Convention, where
that State” ;

59.2.d.iii

in paragraph (b), at the beginning insert  “in a case where the claimant is a
national of a member State, where that State” ;

59.2.e

in subsection (6)—

59.2.e.i

after “this section” insert  “and section 80AA” ;

59.2.e.ii

after “claim”,” insert  ““human rights claim”,” ;

59.2.e.iii

at the appropriate place insert—

“ national ” includes citizen;

;

59.2.f

for the heading, substitute  “Claims by nationals of listed safe States” .

59.3

After section 80A insert—

########## Safe States for the purposes of section 80A

59.3.80AA

59.3.80AA.1

The States are—

59.3.80AA.1.a

Albania,

59.3.80AA.1.b

Austria,

59.3.80AA.1.c

Belgium,

59.3.80AA.1.d

Bulgaria,

59.3.80AA.1.e

Republic of Croatia,

59.3.80AA.1.f

Republic of Cyprus,

59.3.80AA.1.g

Czech Republic,

59.3.80AA.1.h

Denmark,

59.3.80AA.1.i

Estonia,

59.3.80AA.1.j

Finland,

59.3.80AA.1.k

France,

59.3.80AA.1.l

Germany,

59.3.80AA.1.m

Greece,

59.3.80AA.1.n

Hungary,

59.3.80AA.1.o

Iceland,

59.3.80AA.1.p

Republic of Ireland,

59.3.80AA.1.q

Italy,

59.3.80AA.1.r

Latvia,

59.3.80AA.1.s

Principality of Liechtenstein,

59.3.80AA.1.t

Lithuania,

59.3.80AA.1.u

Luxembourg,

59.3.80AA.1.v

Malta,

59.3.80AA.1.w

Netherlands,

59.3.80AA.1.x

Norway,

59.3.80AA.1.y

Poland,

59.3.80AA.1.z

Portugal,

59.3.80AA.1.z1

Romania,

59.3.80AA.1.z2

Slovak Republic,

59.3.80AA.1.z3

Slovenia,

59.3.80AA.1.z4

Spain,

59.3.80AA.1.z5

Sweden,

59.3.80AA.1.z6

Switzerland.

59.3.80AA.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the list in subsection (1) so
as to add or remove a State.

59.3.80AA.3

The Secretary of State may add a State to the list only if satisfied that—

59.3.80AA.3.a

there is in general in that State no serious risk of persecution of nationals
of that State, and

59.3.80AA.3.b

removal to that State of nationals of that State will not in general
contravene the United Kingdom’s obligations under the Human Rights Convention.

59.3.80AA.4

In deciding whether the statements in subsection (3)(a) and (b) are true of a
State, the Secretary of State—

59.3.80AA.4.a

must have regard to all the circumstances of the State (including its laws and
how they are applied), and

59.3.80AA.4.b

must have regard to information from any appropriate source (including member
States and international organisations).

59.3.80AA.5

Regulations under this section—

59.3.80AA.5.a

must be made by statutory instrument;

59.3.80AA.5.b

may include transitional or saving provision.

59.3.80AA.6

A statutory instrument containing—

59.3.80AA.6.a

regulations which add a State to the list in subsection (1), or

59.3.80AA.6.b

regulations which both add a State to, and remove a State from, that list,

may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and
approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

59.3.80AA.7

A statutory instrument containing regulations under this section, other than
one to which subsection (6) applies, is subject to annulment in pursuance of a
resolution of either House of Parliament.

59.4

In the heading to Part 4A, after “Asylum” insert  “and Human Rights” .

### Safe and legal routes

#### Cap on number of entrants using safe and legal routes

60

60.1

The Secretary of State must make regulations specifying the maximum number of
persons who may enter the United Kingdom annually using safe and legal routes
(see  subsection (7) ).

60.2

Before making the regulations the Secretary of State must consult—

60.2.a

in England and Wales and Scotland, such representatives of local authorities
as the Secretary of State considers appropriate,

60.2.b

the Executive Office in Northern Ireland, and

60.2.c

such other persons or bodies as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

60.3

But the duty to consult does not apply where the Secretary of State considers
that the number needs to be changed as a matter of urgency.

60.4

The Secretary of State must begin the consultation under subsection  (2)  in
relation to the first regulations to be made under this section before the end
of the period of 3 months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed.

60.5

If in any year the number of persons who enter the United Kingdom using safe
and legal routes exceeds the number specified in the regulations, the
Secretary of State must lay a statement before Parliament—

60.5.a

setting out the number of persons who have, in that year, entered the United
Kingdom using safe and legal routes, and

60.5.b

explaining why the number exceeds that specified in the regulations.

60.6

The statement must be laid before Parliament before the end of the period of
six months beginning with the day after the last day of the year to which the
statement relates.

60.7

In  this section —

“ local authority ” means— in England and Wales, a county council, a county
borough council, a district council, a London borough council, the Common
Council of the City of London or the Council of the Isles of Scilly, and in
Scotland, a council constituted under section 2 of the Local Government etc
(Scotland) Act 1994; “ safe and legal route ” means a route specified in
regulations made by the Secretary of State.

#### Report on safe and legal routes

61

61.1

The Secretary of State must, before the end of the relevant period—

61.1.a

prepare and publish a report on safe and legal routes by which persons may
enter the United Kingdom, and

61.1.b

lay the report before Parliament.

61.2

The report must—

61.2.a

contain details of the safe and legal routes by which persons may enter the
United Kingdom when the report is published,

61.2.b

contain details of any proposed additional safe and legal routes which have
not come into operation at that time,

61.2.c

specify the routes within paragraph (a) or (b) which are or will be available
to adults,

61.2.d

specify the routes within paragraph (a) or (b) which are or will be available
to children, and

61.2.e

contain details of how routes within paragraph (a) or (b) may be accessed by
persons who are eligible to use them.

61.3

In this section—

“ adult ” means a person who is aged 18 or over; “ child ” means a person who
is under the age of 18; “ the relevant period ” means the period of 6 months
beginning with the day on which this Act is passed.

### Credibility of claimant

#### Credibility of claimant: concealment of information etc

62

62.1

Section 8 of the Asylum and Immigration (Treatment of Claimants, etc) Act 2004
(claimant’s credibility) is amended as follows.

62.2

In subsection (3)—

62.2.a

in paragraphs (a) and (c) for “a passport” substitute  “an identity document”
;

62.2.b

in paragraph (b) for “passport” substitute  “identity document” ;

62.2.c

after paragraph (d) (but before the “and”) insert—

62.2.c.da

failure to provide to an immigration officer or the Secretary of State, on
request, any information or anything else required in order to access any
information stored in electronic form on a thing in the possession of an
immigration officer or the Secretary of State that—

62.2.c.da.i

was found on the claimant, or

62.2.c.da.ii

appears to an immigration officer or the Secretary of State to have been in
the possession of the claimant,

.

62.3

In subsection (7)—

62.3.a

insert at the appropriate place—

“ document ” includes information recorded in any form;

;

“ identity document ” means any document that may be used (whether by itself
or otherwise and with or without modifications) to establish, or provide
evidence of, a person’s identity or address;

;

62.3.b

omit the definition of “passport”.

62.4

In subsection (8) for “A passport” substitute  “An identity document” .

### General

#### Financial provision

63

There is to be paid out of money provided by Parliament—

63.a

any expenditure incurred under or by virtue of this Act by a Minister of the
Crown, and

63.b

any increase attributable to this Act in the sums payable under any other Act
out of money so provided.

#### Consequential and minor provision

64

64.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision that is consequential
on this Act.

64.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may, in particular, amend, repeal or revoke
any enactment passed or made before, or in the same Session as, this Act.

64.3

In subsection  (2)  “ enactment ” includes—

64.3.a

an enactment contained in subordinate legislation within the meaning of the
Interpretation Act 1978;

64.3.b

an enactment contained in, or in an instrument made under, an Act of the
Scottish Parliament;

64.3.c

an enactment contained in, or in an instrument made under, a Measure or Act of
Senedd Cymru;

64.3.d

an enactment contained in, or in an instrument made under, Northern Ireland
legislation.

64.4

In section 61(2) of the UK Borders Act 2007 (meaning of “ the Immigration Acts
”)—

64.4.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (l), and

64.4.b

after paragraph (m) insert

, and

64.4.b.n

the Illegal Migration Act 2023.

64.5

In Schedule 5 to the Nationality and Borders Act 2022, in paragraph 8, omit
sub-paragraph (2).

#### Regulations

65

65.1

A power to make regulations under this Act is exercisable by statutory
instrument.

65.2

Regulations under this Act may make—

65.2.a

consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional or saving provision;

65.2.b

different provision for different purposes.

65.3

Subsection  (2)  does not apply to regulations under section  68 (1)
(commencement).

65.4

A statutory instrument containing (whether alone or with other provision)—

65.4.a

regulations under section  4 (3) (d)  (circumstances in which power to make
arrangements for removal of unaccompanied child applies),

65.4.b

regulations under section  7 (1)  (powers to amend Schedule  1 ),

65.4.c

regulations under section  20 (1)  (extension to Wales, Scotland and Northern
Ireland),

65.4.d

regulations under section  24 (9)  (amendments in consequence of regulations
made by the Scottish Ministers),

65.4.e

regulations under section  26 (3) (b)  (continuation of operation of modern
slavery provisions),

65.4.f

regulations under section  40  (meaning of “ serious and irreversible harm ”),

65.4.g

regulations under section  60  (cap on number of entrants using safe and legal
routes),

65.4.h

regulations under section  64 (1)  (consequential provision) which amend,
repeal or revoke primary legislation, or

65.4.i

regulations under  paragraph 10  of Schedule  2  (powers relating to relevant
articles containing items subject to legal privilege),

may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and
approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

65.5

Any other statutory instrument containing regulations under this Act for which
no Parliamentary procedure is otherwise specified by this Act is subject to
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

65.6

Subsection  (5)  does not apply to a statutory instrument containing only
regulations under—

65.6.a

section  26 (8)  (transitional etc provision in connection with suspension of
operation of modern slavery provisions);

65.6.b

section  68  (commencement).

65.7

In this section “ primary legislation ” means—

65.7.a

an Act of Parliament,

65.7.b

an Act of the Scottish Parliament,

65.7.c

a Measure or Act of Senedd Cymru, or

65.7.d

Northern Ireland legislation.

#### Defined expressions

66

In this Act an expression listed in the first column of the following table
has the meaning given by, or is to be interpreted in accordance with, the
corresponding provision listed in the second column of that table.

Expression Provision application for judicial review section  5 (6) human
rights claim section  4 (15) the Human Rights Convention section  6 (13)
immigration officer section  8 (17) immigration rules section  2 (9) national
section  4 (15) protection claim section  4 (15) unaccompanied child section
4 (5)  (subject to section  16 (5) )

#### Extent

67

67.1

This Act extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland, subject
as follows.

67.2

Section  23  extends to England and Wales only.

67.3

Section  24  extends to Scotland only.

67.4

Section  25  extends to Northern Ireland only.

67.5

Subsections  (7)  to  (10)  of section  4  (and section  65  so far as
applying to those subsections) also extend to the Channel Islands and the Isle
of Man and the British overseas territories, but only so as to enable
regulations under subsection  (7)  of section  4  to make provision for any of
sections  31  to  36  to have effect with modifications in relation to a
person to whom regulations under that subsection apply.

67.6

Sections  31  to  37  also extend to the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man
and the British overseas territories.

67.7

His Majesty may by Order in Council provide for any of the provisions of this
Act to extend, with or without modifications, to any of the Channel Islands or
the Isle of Man.

67.8

Subsection  (7)  does not apply to—

67.8.a

sections  4 (7)  to  (10)  and  65 , so far as they extend to the Channel
Islands and the Isle of Man by virtue of subsection  (5) , or

67.8.b

sections  31  to  37 .

67.9

Any amendment, repeal or revocation made by this Act has the same extent
within the United Kingdom as the provision to which it relates.

67.10

A power under any provision listed in subsection  (11)  may be exercised so as
to extend (with or without modifications) to any of the Channel Islands or the
Isle of Man any amendment or repeal made by or under this Act of any part of
an Act to which the provision listed in subsection  (11)  relates.

67.11

Those provisions are—

67.11.a

section 36 of the Immigration Act 1971,

67.11.b

section 9(3) of the Special Immigration Appeals Commission Act 1997,

67.11.c

section 170(7) of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999,

67.11.d

section 163(4) of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002,

67.11.e

section 49(3) of the Asylum and Immigration (Treatment of Claimants, etc) Act
2004,

67.11.f

section 60(4) of the UK Borders Act 2007,

67.11.g

section 57(5) of the Borders, Citizenship and Immigration Act 2009,

67.11.h

section 60(6) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015,

67.11.i

section 95(5) of the Immigration Act 2016, and

67.11.j

section 86(4) of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022.

#### Commencement

68

68.1

Subject to subsections  (3)  and  (4) , this Act comes into force on such day
as the Secretary of State may by regulations appoint.

68.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may appoint different days for different
purposes.

68.3

The following provisions come into force on the day on which this Act is
passed—

68.3.a

sections  30  to  37 ;

68.3.b

section  52 ;

68.3.c

sections  63  to  67 ;

68.3.d

this section;

68.3.e

section  69 .

68.4

The following provisions come into force on the day on which this Act is
passed for the purposes of making regulations—

68.4.a

section  3  (amendment of date in section  2 (3)  etc);

68.4.b

section  4  (unaccompanied children and power to provide for exceptions);

68.4.c

section  7  (powers to amend Schedule  1 );

68.4.d

section  11 (2)  (detention under authority of immigration officer);

68.4.e

section  11 (6)  (detention under authority of Secretary of State);

68.4.f

section  18  (duty of local authority to provide information to Secretary of
State);

68.4.g

section  20  (extension of provisions relating to unaccompanied children to
Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland);

68.4.h

section  24  (modern slavery: support in Scotland);

68.4.i

section  40  (meaning of “ serious and irreversible harm ”);

68.4.j

section  42  (serious harm suspensive claims);

68.4.k

section  43  (removal conditions suspensive claims);

68.4.l

section  60 (7)  (definition of safe and legal routes).

68.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations make transitional or saving
provision in connection with the coming into force of any provision of this
Act.

#### Short title

69

This Act may be cited as the Illegal Migration Act 2023.

## Schedules

Countries or territories to which a person may be removed

Section 6

1

Republic of Albania.

2

Austria.

3

Belgium.

4

Bolivia.

5

Bosnia and Herzegovina.

6

Brazil.

7

Bulgaria.

8

Republic of Croatia.

9

Republic of Cyprus.

10

Czech Republic.

11

Denmark.

12

Ecuador.

13

Estonia.

14

Finland.

15

France.

16

Gambia (in respect of men).

17

Germany.

18

Ghana (in respect of men).

19

Greece.

20

Hungary.

21

Iceland.

22

India.

23

Republic of Ireland.

24

Italy.

25

Jamaica.

26

Kenya (in respect of men).

27

Kosovo.

28

Latvia.

29

Liberia (in respect of men).

30

Principality of Liechtenstein.

31

Lithuania.

32

Luxembourg.

33

Malawi (in respect of men).

34

Mali (in respect of men).

35

Malta.

36

Mauritius.

37

The Republic of Moldova.

38

Mongolia.

39

Montenegro.

40

Netherlands.

41

Nigeria (in respect of men).

42

North Macedonia.

43

Norway.

44

Peru.

45

Poland.

46

Portugal.

47

Romania.

48

Republic of Rwanda.

49

Serbia.

50

Sierra Leone (in respect of men).

51

Slovak Republic.

52

Slovenia.

53

South Africa.

54

South Korea.

55

Spain.

56

Sweden.

57

Switzerland.

Electronic devices etc

Section 15

##### Introduction

1

In this Schedule “ relevant person ” means a person who—

1.a

is liable to be detained under paragraph 16 (2C)  of Schedule 2 to the
Immigration Act 1971 (illegal migrants), and

1.b

entered or arrived in the United Kingdom as mentioned in  section 2 (2)  of
this Act on or after the day this Schedule came into force.

2

2.1

In this Schedule—

“ appropriate adult ”, in relation to a person, means— a person appearing to
an immigration officer to be the person’s parent or guardian, if the person is
in the care of a relevant authority or voluntary organisation, a person
representing that authority or organisation, a registered social worker, or if
no person within a preceding paragraph is available, any responsible person
aged 18 or over who is not an immigration officer or a person employed for, or
engaged on, purposes relating to a relevant function; “ container ” has the
meaning given by section 1 of the Customs and Excise Management Act 1979; “
intimate search ” has the meaning given by section 28H of the Immigration Act
1971; “ item subject to legal privilege ” has the meaning given by section
65(1) of the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001; “ local authority ”— in
relation to England, means a county council, a district council for an area
for which there is no county council, a London borough council, the Common
Council of the City of London in its capacity as a local authority or the
Council of the Isles of Scilly; in relation to Wales, means a county council
or a county borough council; in relation to Scotland, means a council
constituted under section 2 of the Local Government etc (Scotland) Act 1994; “
registered social worker ” means a person registered as a social worker in a
register maintained by— Social Work England, Social Care Wales, the Scottish
Social Services Council, or the Northern Ireland Social Care Council; “
relevant article ” means anything which appears to an immigration officer to
be a thing on which relevant information is or may be stored in electronic
form; “ relevant authority ”— in relation to England and Wales and Scotland,
means a local authority; in relation to Northern Ireland, means an authority
within the meaning of the Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 ( S.I.
1995/755 (N.I. 2) ) (see Article 2(2) of that Order); “ relevant function ”
means— any function of an immigration officer, or any function of the
Secretary of State in relation to immigration, asylum or nationality; “
relevant information ” means any information which appears to an immigration
officer or the Secretary of State to be relevant to a relevant function; “
ship ” has the meaning given by section 28Q of the Immigration Act 1971; “
vehicle ” includes— any ship, train (including any locomotive and railway
rolling stock of any description), aircraft or bicycle, and anything designed
or adapted for towing by a vehicle; “ voluntary organisation ”— in relation to
England and Wales, has the same meaning as in the Children Act 1989 (see
section 105(1) of that Act); in relation to Scotland, has the same meaning as
in Part 2 of the Children (Scotland) Act 1995 (see section 93(1) of that Act);
in relation to Northern Ireland, has the same meaning as in the Children
(Northern Ireland) Order 1995 (see Article 74(1) of that Order).

2.2

In paragraph (d) of the definition of “appropriate adult”, the reference to
purposes relating to a relevant function does not include the purpose of
performing the functions of an “ appropriate adult ” for the purposes of this
Schedule.

##### Power to search relevant persons

3

3.1

An immigration officer may search a relevant person for any relevant article,
if the officer has reasonable grounds to suspect that the relevant person is
in possession of a relevant article.

3.2

The power of an immigration officer under this paragraph to search a person—

3.2.a

authorises the search of their mouth;

3.2.b

authorises the officer to require the person to remove an outer coat, jacket
or glove (but no other clothing) in public;

3.2.c

if the conditions in  sub-paragraph (3)  are met, authorises the officer to
require the person to remove any clothing;

3.2.d

does not authorise the carrying out of an intimate search.

3.3

The conditions referred to in  sub-paragraph (2) (c)  are—

3.3.a

that the search is not carried out in public;

3.3.b

that the person carrying out the search is of the same sex as the person
searched;

3.3.c

that the only persons present when the search is carried out are immigration
officers, any person present at the request of the person searched, and any
person present as a result of  paragraph (e) ;

3.3.d

that, subject to any exceptions made at the request of the person searched,
the persons present when the search is carried out are of the same sex as the
person searched;

3.3.e

that if it appears to the person carrying out the search that the person
searched is under the age of 18, an appropriate adult is present when the
search is carried out.

##### Power to search vehicles and containers

4

4.1

An immigration officer may search a vehicle or container listed in  sub-
paragraph (2)  for any relevant article, if the officer has reasonable grounds
to suspect that a relevant article that is or has been in the possession of a
relevant person is in the vehicle.

4.2

The vehicles and containers referred to in  sub-paragraph (1)  are—

4.2.a

a vehicle or container in which the relevant person was when encountered by an
immigration officer or constable;

4.2.b

a vehicle or container which an immigration officer has reasonable grounds to
suspect the relevant person was in at the time of their arrival in the United
Kingdom;

4.2.c

a ship or container which an immigration officer has reasonable grounds to
suspect the relevant person was in at any time during a journey which ended
with their arrival in the United Kingdom.

##### Power to search premises

5

5.1

This paragraph applies to premises in which a relevant person was when, or
immediately before being, encountered by an immigration officer or a
constable.

5.2

An immigration officer may search the premises for any relevant article if—

5.2.a

the officer is lawfully on the premises, and

5.2.b

the officer has reasonable grounds to suspect that a relevant article that is
or has been in the possession of the relevant person is on the premises.

##### Power to search property

6

6.1

This paragraph applies to property which an immigration officer has reasonable
grounds to suspect has been in the possession of a relevant person.

6.2

An immigration officer may search the property for any relevant article if the
officer has reasonable grounds to suspect that the property includes a
relevant article.

##### Power of seizure

7

An immigration officer may seize any relevant article that—

7.a

is found on a search under this Schedule, or

7.b

appears to the officer to be, or have been, in the possession of a relevant
person.

##### Power of retention

8

8.1

A relevant article seized under  paragraph 7 —

8.1.a

may be retained by an immigration officer or the Secretary of State, for so
long as the officer or Secretary of State considers its retention necessary
for a purpose relating to a relevant function;

8.1.b

must, subject to any provision made under  sub-paragraph (2) , be returned
when it ceases to be retained under this paragraph.

8.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations make, in relation to a relevant
article retained under  sub-paragraph (1) —

8.2.a

provision applying (with or without modifications) section 49 of the
Immigration Act 2016 (duty to pass on certain seized items), or

8.2.b

provision corresponding, or similar, to the provision made by that section.

##### Power to access, copy and use information stored on relevant article

9

The Secretary of State or an immigration officer may—

9.a

access and examine any information stored on a relevant article that is
retained under  paragraph 8 ;

9.b

copy and retain any relevant information that is stored on the relevant
article;

9.c

use any information retained under  paragraph (b)  for any purpose relating to
a relevant function.

##### Relevant articles containing items subject to legal privilege

10

10.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about relevant
articles that contain (or may contain) items subject to legal privilege.

10.2

The provision that may be made includes in particular—

10.2.a

provision modifying this Schedule as it applies in relation to such relevant
articles;

10.2.b

provision applying (with or without modifications) any provision made by or
under Part 2 of the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 (powers of seizure);

10.2.c

provision corresponding, or similar, to any provision made by or under that
Part.

##### Extension of powers to other persons

11

11.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide—

11.1.a

that references in this Schedule to an immigration officer include a person of
a description specified in the regulations;

11.1.b

that a person of a description so specified may, if necessary, use reasonable
force in the exercise of any function conferred by virtue of the regulations.

11.2

The descriptions of person that may be specified in the regulations include
persons designated by the Secretary of State, in accordance with the
regulations.

If they do so, the regulations must contain such safeguards relating to the
designation of persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

