Title: Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023
Date: 2024-11-17
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/55

## Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023

      B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Levelling-up missions

#### Setting missions

##### Statement of levelling-up missions

1

1.1

A Minister of the Crown must prepare, and lay before each House of Parliament,
a statement of levelling-up missions.

1.2

A “statement of levelling-up missions” is a document which sets out—

1.2.a

objectives which His Majesty’s Government intends to pursue to reduce
geographical disparities in the United Kingdom significantly (“levelling-up
missions”), within a period specified in the statement (the “mission period”),
and

1.2.b

details of how His Majesty’s Government proposes to measure progress in
delivering those levelling-up missions (the “mission progress methodology and
metrics”).

1.3

In the course of preparing a statement of levelling-up missions, the Minister
of the Crown must have regard to—

1.3.a

the importance of the levelling-up missions in the statement (taken as a
whole) addressing both economic and social disparities in opportunities or
outcomes, and

1.3.b

the needs of rural areas.

1.4

The mission period for a statement of levelling-up missions must not—

1.4.a

begin before the statement has been laid before each House of Parliament, nor

1.4.b

be shorter than five years.

1.5

A statement of levelling-up missions must specify a target date for the
delivery of each of the levelling-up missions in it, which may be before or at
the end of the mission period.

1.6

If different target dates are specified under  subsection (5)  for different
levelling-up missions, the statement of levelling-up missions must give
reasons for the different dates.

1.7

The first statement of levelling-up missions must come into effect before the
end of the period of one month beginning with the day on which this section
comes into force.

1.8

A statement of levelling-up missions comes into effect when—

1.8.a

the statement has been laid before each House of Parliament and published by a
Minister of the Crown, and

1.8.b

the mission period in the statement begins.

1.9

Before the end of the mission period in a statement of levelling-up missions
(“the old statement”), a Minister of the Crown must prepare a new statement of
levelling-up missions, lay it before each House of Parliament and publish it.

1.10

The mission period in the new statement of levelling-up missions must begin no
later than immediately after the end of the mission period in the old
statement.

1.11

When the new statement of levelling-up missions comes into effect it replaces
the old statement, which ceases to have effect.

1.12

References in this Part to the current statement of levelling-up missions are
to the statement of levelling-up missions for the time being in effect.

##### Statement of levelling-up missions: devolution

2

2.1

In the course of preparing a statement of levelling-up missions, a Minister of
the Crown must—

2.1.a

have regard to any role of the devolved legislatures and devolved authorities
in connection with the levelling-up missions in the statement, and

2.1.b

carry out such consultation as the Minister considers appropriate with the
devolved authorities.

2.2

A Minister of the Crown must prepare a document which sets out how the
Minister has complied with subsection  (1) (a) .

2.3

A Minister of the Crown must lay the document mentioned in subsection  (2)
before each House of Parliament, and publish it, at the same time as, or as
soon as is reasonably practicable after, the statement of levelling-up
missions is so laid and published.

#### Reporting on missions

##### Annual etc reports on delivery of levelling-up missions

3

3.1

A Minister of the Crown must prepare reports on the delivery of the levelling-
up missions in the current statement of levelling-up missions, in accordance
with this section.

3.2

In the course of preparing each report, the Minister of the Crown must have
regard to the needs of rural areas.

3.3

Each report must—

3.3.a

include the Minister’s assessment of the progress that has been made, in the
period to which the report relates, in delivering each of the levelling-up
missions in the current statement of levelling-up missions as it has effect at
the end of that period,

3.3.b

describe what has been done, in that period, by His Majesty’s Government to
deliver each of those levelling-up missions, and

3.3.c

set out what His Majesty’s Government plans to do in the future to deliver
each of those levelling-up missions.

3.4

The Minister’s assessment under  subsection (3) (a)  must be carried out by
reference to the mission progress methodology and metrics in the current
statement of levelling-up missions as it has effect at the end of the period
to which the report relates.

3.5

If His Majesty’s Government considers that it is no longer appropriate for it
to pursue a levelling-up mission in the current statement of levelling-up
missions, the report may state that His Majesty’s Government no longer intends
to pursue that mission, instead of dealing with the matters mentioned in
subsection (3)  in relation to that mission.

3.6

If a report contains a statement under  subsection (5) , it must also set out
the reasons for the statement being made.

3.7

In the course of preparing a report on the delivery of the levelling-up
missions, a Minister of the Crown must carry out such consultation as the
Minister considers appropriate with the devolved authorities.

3.8

The first report in relation to a statement of levelling-up missions must
relate to the first 12 months of the mission period in the statement.

3.9

Subsequent reports in relation to a statement of levelling-up missions must
relate to—

3.9.a

the 12 month period immediately following the 12 month period in relation to
which the previous report relating to the statement was prepared, or

3.9.b

if shorter, the period—

3.9.b.i

beginning immediately after the 12 month period in relation to which the
previous report relating to the statement was prepared, and

3.9.b.ii

ending at the end of the mission period in the statement.

##### Reports: Parliamentary scrutiny and publication

4

4.1

A report under  section 3  must be laid before each House of Parliament before
the end of the period of 120 days beginning immediately after the last day of
the period to which the report relates.

4.2

After a report has been laid before Parliament under  subsection (1) , a
Minister of the Crown must publish it as soon as is reasonably practicable.

4.3

In calculating the period of 120 days mentioned in  subsection (1) , no
account is to be taken of any time during which—

4.3.a

Parliament is dissolved or prorogued, or

4.3.b

either House of Parliament is adjourned for more than 4 days.

#### Revision of methodology and metrics or target dates

##### Changes to mission progress methodology and metrics or target dates

5

5.1

This section applies if a Minister of the Crown considers that the mission
progress methodology and metrics, or the target date for the delivery of a
levelling-up mission, in the current statement of levelling-up missions should
be changed.

5.2

The Minister—

5.2.a

may revise the current statement of levelling-up missions so as to change the
mission progress methodology and metrics or (as the case may be) target date,
and

5.2.b

as soon as is reasonably practicable after doing so, must—

5.2.b.i

publish a statement setting out the reasons for the mission progress
methodology and metrics, or target date, being changed, and

5.2.b.ii

lay the revised statement of levelling-up missions before each House of
Parliament and then publish it.

5.3

In discharging functions under this section, a Minister of the Crown must have
regard to the needs of rural areas.

5.4

The current statement of levelling-up missions has effect with the revisions
made under  subsection (2)  on and after the day on which it is published
after being laid before each House of Parliament.

5.5

Before making any revisions under  subsection (2) , a Minister of the Crown
must—

5.5.a

have regard to any role of the devolved legislatures and devolved authorities
in connection with the levelling-up mission to which the revision relates, and

5.5.b

carry out such consultation as the Minister considers appropriate with the
devolved authorities.

#### Review of missions

##### Reviews of statements of levelling-up missions

6

6.1

A Minister of the Crown must review the current statement of levelling-up
missions, in accordance with this section.

6.2

The first review of the current statement of levelling-up missions must be
completed, and a report on that review published, within the period of five
years beginning with the first day of the mission period in that statement.

6.3

Subsequent reviews of the current statement of levelling-up missions must be
completed, and the report on the review published, within the period of five
years beginning with the day on which the report on the previous review was
published.

6.4

But a final review of the current statement of levelling-up missions must be
completed, and the report on the review published, before a new statement is
laid before each House of Parliament in accordance with  section 1 (9) .

6.5

The purposes of a review under this section are to—

6.5.a

consider whether His Majesty’s Government pursuing the levelling-up missions
in the current statement of levelling-up missions is effectively contributing
to the reduction of geographical disparities in the United Kingdom,

6.5.b

conclude whether His Majesty’s Government should continue to pursue those
levelling-up missions and, if not, what the levelling-up missions are instead
to be, and

6.5.c

consider whether there are any additional levelling-up missions which His
Majesty’s Government should pursue.

6.6

In the course of carrying out a review under this section, a Minister of the
Crown must—

6.6.a

have regard to any role of the devolved legislatures and devolved authorities
in connection with the levelling-up missions in the statement, and

6.6.b

carry out such consultation as the Minister considers appropriate with the
devolved authorities.

6.7

As soon as is reasonably practicable after the conclusion of a review under
this section, a Minister of the Crown must lay a report on the review before
each House of Parliament and then publish it.

6.8

The report on a review under this section must—

6.8.a

state whether His Majesty’s Government considers that pursuing the levelling-
up missions in the current statement of levelling-up missions is effectively
contributing to the reduction of geographical disparities in the United
Kingdom,

6.8.b

state whether His Majesty’s Government has concluded that it should continue
to pursue those levelling-up missions and, if not, what the levelling-up
missions are instead to be,

6.8.c

state whether there are any additional levelling-up missions which His
Majesty’s Government considers it should pursue, and

6.8.d

set out reasons for the statements under paragraphs  (a)  to  (c) .

6.9

Subsections  (10)  to  (12)  do not apply in relation to a report on the final
review of the current statement of levelling-up missions.

6.10

If the report states that His Majesty’s Government has concluded that it
should not continue to pursue the levelling-up missions in the current
statement of levelling-up missions—

6.10.a

a Minister of the Crown must revise the statement—

6.10.a.i

so that it instead contains the levelling-up missions that His Majesty’s
Government is to pursue for the remaining mission period, and

6.10.a.ii

to make any changes to the mission progress methodology and metrics that the
Minister considers appropriate in consequence of doing so, and

6.10.b

as soon as is reasonably practicable after revising it, the Minister must lay
the revised statement before each House of Parliament and then publish it.

6.11

If the report states that His Majesty’s Government considers that it should
pursue an additional levelling-up mission—

6.11.a

a Minister of the Crown must revise the current statement of levelling-up
missions so as to—

6.11.a.i

add the levelling-up mission, and

6.11.a.ii

make any changes to the mission progress methodology and metrics that the
Minister considers appropriate in consequence of doing so, and

6.11.b

as soon as is reasonably practicable after revising it, the Minister must lay
the revised statement before each House of Parliament and then publish it.

6.12

The current statement of levelling-up missions has effect with the revisions
made under  subsection (10) (a)  or  (11) (a)  on and after the day on which
the revised statement is published after being laid before each House of
Parliament.

6.13

In carrying out functions under this section, a Minister of the Crown must
have regard to—

6.13.a

the importance of the levelling-up missions in the statement of levelling-up
missions (taken as a whole) addressing both economic and social disparities in
opportunities or outcomes, and

6.13.b

the needs of rural areas.

#### Levelling-up funding

##### Levelling Up Fund Round 3

7

7.1

Before the end of the period of three months beginning with the day on which
this Act is passed, a Minister of the Crown must lay before each House of
Parliament a statement on Levelling Up Fund Round 3.

7.2

A “statement on Levelling Up Fund Round 3” is a statement about the allocation
of a third round of funding from the Levelling Up Fund.

7.3

The “Levelling Up Fund” is the programme run by His Majesty’s Government which
is known as the Levelling Up Fund and was announced on 25 November 2020.

#### General

##### Interpretation of 

8

In this Part—

      “ current statement of levelling-up missions ” has the meaning given by
section 1 (12) ;           “ devolved authorities ” means—         the
Scottish Ministers,           the Welsh Ministers, and           the Northern
Ireland departments;                 “ devolved legislatures ” means—
the Scottish Parliament,           Senedd Cymru, and           the Northern
Ireland Assembly;                 “ geographical disparities ” means
geographical disparities in economic, social or other opportunities or
outcomes;           “ His Majesty’s Government ” means His Majesty’s
Government in the United Kingdom;           “ levelling-up mission ” has the
meaning given by  section 1 (2) (a) ;           “ Minister of the Crown ” has
the same meaning as in the Ministers of the Crown Act 1975;           “
mission period ” has the meaning given by  section 1 (2) (a) ;           “
mission progress methodology and metrics ” has the meaning given by  section 1
(2) (b) ;           “ statement of levelling-up missions ” has the meaning
given by  section 1 (2) .

### Local democracy and devolution

#### Combined county authorities

##### CCAs and their areas

###### Combined county authorities and their areas

9

9.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations establish as a body corporate a
combined county authority (a “CCA”) for an area that meets the following
conditions.

9.2

Condition A is that the area is wholly within England and consists of—

9.2.a

the whole of the area of a two-tier county council, and

9.2.b

the whole of one or more of—

9.2.b.i

the area of a two-tier county council,

9.2.b.ii

the area of a unitary county council, or

9.2.b.iii

the area of a unitary district council.

9.3

Condition B is that no part of the area forms part of—

9.3.a

the area of another CCA,

9.3.b

the area of a combined authority, or

9.3.c

the integrated transport area of an Integrated Transport Authority.

9.4

Regulations under subsection  (1)  must specify the name by which the CCA is
to be known.

9.5

In this Chapter—

      “ combined authority ” means a combined authority established under
section 103(1) of the Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction
Act 2009;           “ economic prosperity board ” means an economic prosperity
board established under section 88(1) of that Act;           “ Integrated
Transport Authority ” means an Integrated Transport Authority for an
integrated transport area;           “ two-tier county council ” means a
county council whose area includes the areas of district councils;           “
unitary county council ” means a county council whose area does not include
the areas of district councils;           “ unitary district council ” means a
district council whose area does not form part of the area of a county
council.

##### Constitution of CCAs

###### Constitutional arrangements

10

10.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the
constitutional arrangements of a CCA.

10.2

“ Constitutional arrangements ” in relation to a CCA means—

10.2.a

the membership of the CCA (including the number and appointment of members of
the CCA and the remuneration of, and pensions or allowances payable to or in
respect of, any member of the CCA);

10.2.b

the voting powers of members of the CCA (including provision for different
weight to be given to the vote of different descriptions of member);

10.2.c

the executive arrangements of the CCA;

10.2.d

the functions of any executive body of the CCA.

10.3

In subsection  (2) (c)  “ executive arrangements ” means—

10.3.a

the appointment of an executive;

10.3.b

the functions of the CCA which are the responsibility of an executive;

10.3.c

the functions of the CCA which are the responsibility of an executive and
which may be discharged by a committee of the CCA or by a body other than the
CCA;

10.3.d

arrangements relating to the review and scrutiny of the discharge of
functions;

10.3.e

access to information on the proceedings of an executive of the CCA;

10.3.f

the disapplication of section 15 of the Local Government and Housing Act 1989
(duty to allocate seats to political groups) in relation to an executive of
the CCA or a committee of such an executive;

10.3.g

the keeping of a record of any arrangements relating to the CCA and falling
within paragraphs  (a)  to  (f) .

10.4

Regulations under subsection  (1)  which, by virtue of subsection  (2) (a) ,
include provision about the number and appointment of members of the CCA must
provide—

10.4.a

for the members of the CCA other than—

10.4.a.i

the mayor (in the case of a mayoral CCA),

10.4.a.ii

the CCA’s non-constituent members (see section  11 ), and

10.4.a.iii

the CCA’s associate members (see section  12 ),

to be appointed by the CCA’s constituent councils, and

10.4.b

for each of the constituent councils to appoint at least one of its elected
members as a member of the CCA.

10.5

The provision which may be made by regulations under subsection  (1)  by
virtue of subsection  (2) (d)  includes—

10.5.a

provision setting up or dissolving an executive body of a CCA, or merging two
or more executive bodies of a CCA;

10.5.b

provision conferring functions on, or removing functions from, an executive
body of a CCA;

10.5.c

provision transferring functions of a CCA to an executive body of the CCA, and
transferring functions of an executive body of a CCA to the CCA.

10.6

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may not provide for the budget of a CCA to
be agreed otherwise than by the CCA.

10.7

The power to make regulations under subsection  (1)  is subject to—

10.7.a

sections  11  and  12  and regulations under  section 13 (1)  (non-constituent
and associate members), and

10.7.b

sections  14 (4)  and  25 (9)  and  (12)  (procedure for CCA consents).

10.8

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may be made in relation to a CCA only with
the consent of—

10.8.a

the constituent councils, and

10.8.b

in the case of regulations in relation to an existing CCA, the CCA.

10.9

If the only provision made under subsection  (1)  in regulations under this
Chapter is provision as a result of regulations under section  25 (1)
(changes to boundaries of a CCA’s area)—

10.9.a

subsection  (8)  does not apply to the regulations under this Chapter, and

10.9.b

subsections  (6)  to  (13)  of section  25  apply in relation to the
regulations as if they contained the provision made by the regulations under
subsection  (1)  of that section.

10.10

If the only provision made under subsection  (1)  in regulations under this
Chapter is provision as a result of regulations to which section  31  applies
(procedure for direct conferral of general functions on mayor)—

10.10.a

subsection  (8)  does not apply to the regulations under this Chapter, and

10.10.b

the regulations may be made only with the consent of the mayor for the CCA.

10.11

In this Chapter “ constituent council ”, in relation to a CCA or proposed CCA,
means—

10.11.a

a county council for an area within the CCA’s area or proposed area, or

10.11.b

a unitary district council for an area within the CCA’s area or proposed area.

###### Non-constituent members of a CCA

11

11.1

A CCA may designate a body other than a constituent council as a nominating
body for the purposes of this Chapter.

11.2

A nominating body may be designated under subsection  (1)  only if the body
consents to the designation.

11.3

A nominating body of a CCA may nominate a representative of the body for
appointment by the CCA as a member (a “non-constituent member”).

11.4

The non-constituent members of a CCA are to be non-voting members of that
authority unless the voting members resolve otherwise.

11.5

A resolution under subsection  (4)  does not permit non-constituent members to
vote on a decision whether the CCA should consent to the making of regulations
under this Chapter.

###### Associate members of a CCA

12

12.1

A CCA may appoint an individual to be a member (“an associate member”) of the
CCA.

12.2

The associate members of a CCA are to be non-voting members of the CCA.

###### Regulations about members

13

13.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about—

13.1.a

constituent members of a CCA;

13.1.b

the mayor for the area of a CCA in the mayor’s capacity as a member of the
CCA;

13.1.c

nominating bodies of a CCA;

13.1.d

non-constituent members of a CCA;

13.1.e

associate members of a CCA.

13.2

The provision that may be made by regulations under subsection  (1)  includes,
in particular, provision about—

13.2.a

the cases in which a decision of a CCA requires a majority, or a particular
kind of majority, of the votes of members of a particular kind;

13.2.b

the process for the designation of a nominating body or the removal of such a
designation;

13.2.c

the number of nominating bodies that may be designated by a CCA;

13.2.d

the number of non-constituent members that may be appointed by a nominating
body of a CCA;

13.2.e

the appointment, disqualification, resignation or removal of a non-constituent
member;

13.2.f

the appointment of a substitute member to act in place of a non-constituent
member;

13.2.g

the maximum number of non-constituent members of a CCA;

13.2.h

the making by a nominating body of a CCA of payments towards the costs of the
CCA;

13.2.i

the things which may or may not be done by, or in relation to, a non-
constituent member;

13.2.j

the appointment, disqualification, resignation or removal of an associate
member;

13.2.k

the appointment of a substitute member to act in place of an associate member;

13.2.l

the maximum number of associate members of a CCA;

13.2.m

the things which may or may not be done by, or in relation to, an associate
member.

13.3

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may confer a discretion on a CCA to
determine any matter.

13.4

In this section “ constituent member ”, in relation to a CCA, means a member
of the CCA (other than any mayor for the area of the CCA) appointed by a
constituent council.

###### Review of CCA’s constitutional arrangements

14

14.1

This section applies if regulations under section  10 (1)  (constitution of
CCA) enable a CCA to make provision about its constitution (“constitutional
provision”).

14.2

An appropriate person may carry out a review of the CCA’s constitutional
provision if—

14.2.a

an appropriate person proposes a review, and

14.2.b

the CCA consents to the review.

14.3

If an appropriate person carries out a review under subsection  (2) , they may
propose changes to the CCA’s constitutional provision as a result of the
review for agreement by the CCA.

14.4

The question of whether to consent under subsection  (2) (b)  or to agree to
changes proposed under subsection  (3)  is to be decided at a meeting of the
CCA by a simple majority of the voting members of the CCA who are present at
the meeting.

14.5

In the case of a mayoral CCA—

14.5.a

a majority in favour of consenting under subsection  (2) (b)  does not need to
include the mayor, but

14.5.b

a majority in favour of changes proposed under subsection  (3)  must include
the mayor.

14.6

The reference in subsection  (4)  to a voting member—

14.6.a

includes a substitute member who may act in place of a voting member;

14.6.b

does not include a non-constituent member.

14.7

In this section “ appropriate person ”, in relation to a CCA, means—

14.7.a

a member of the CCA appointed by a constituent council, or

14.7.b

the mayor for the area of the CCA, if it is a mayoral CCA (see section  27 (8)
).

###### Overview and scrutiny committees

15

15.1

Schedule  1  makes provision for CCAs to have overview and scrutiny committees
and audit committees.

15.2

Provision made by regulations under section  10 (1)  is subject to that
Schedule.

###### Funding

16

16.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision—

16.1.a

for the costs of a CCA to be met by its constituent councils, and

16.1.b

about the basis on which the amount payable by each constituent council is to
be determined.

16.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may be made in relation to a CCA only with
the consent of—

16.2.a

the constituent councils, and

16.2.b

in the case of regulations in relation to an existing CCA, the CCA.

16.3

Subsection  (1)  is subject to regulations under section  13 (1)  (CCA
membership).

###### Change of name

17

17.1

A CCA may, by a resolution in relation to which the requirements mentioned in
subsection  (2)  are met, change the name by which it is known.

17.2

The requirements are—

17.2.a

that the resolution is considered at a meeting of the CCA which is specially
convened for the purpose,

17.2.b

that particulars of the resolution were included in the notice of the meeting,
and

17.2.c

that the resolution is passed at the meeting by not less than two-thirds of
the members of the CCA who vote on it.

17.3

A CCA which changes its name under this section must—

17.3.a

send notice of the change to the Secretary of State, and

17.3.b

publish the notice in such manner as the Secretary of State may direct.

17.4

A change of name under this section does not affect the rights or obligations
of the CCA concerned or any other person, or render defective any legal
proceedings; and any legal proceedings may be commenced or continued as if
there had been no change of name.

##### Functions of CCAs

###### Local authority functions

18

18.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide for a function of a county
council or a district council that is exercisable in relation to an area which
is within a CCA’s area to be exercisable by the CCA in relation to the CCA’s
area.

18.2

The Secretary of State may make regulations under subsection  (1)  only if the
Secretary of State considers that the function can appropriately be exercised
by the CCA.

18.3

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may make provision for the function to be
exercisable by the CCA either generally or subject to such conditions or
limitations as may be specified in the regulations.

18.4

Regulations under subsection (1) which provide for a function of a county
council or a unitary district council to be exercisable by a CCA may make
provision for the function to be exercisable by the CCA instead of by the
county council or unitary district council.

18.5

Regulations under subsection (1) which provide for a function of a county
council or a district council to be exercisable by a CCA may make provision—

18.5.a

for the function to be exercisable by the CCA concurrently with the county
council or district council,

18.5.b

for the function to be exercisable by the CCA and the county council or
district council jointly, or

18.5.c

for the function to be exercisable by the CCA jointly with the county council
or district council but also continue to be exercisable by the council alone.

18.6

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may be made in relation to a CCA only with
the consent of—

18.6.a

the constituent councils, and

18.6.b

in the case of regulations in relation to an existing CCA, the CCA.

###### Other public authority functions

19

19.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

19.1.a

make provision for a function of a public authority that is exercisable in
relation to a CCA’s area to be a function of the CCA;

19.1.b

make provision for conferring on a CCA in relation to its area a function
corresponding to a function that a public authority has in relation to another
area.

19.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may include further provision about the
exercise of the function including—

19.2.a

provision for the function to be exercisable by the public authority or CCA
subject to conditions or limitations specified in the regulations;

19.2.b

provision as to joint working arrangements between the CCA and public
authority in connection with the function (for example, provision for the
function to be exercised by a joint committee).

19.3

The provision that may be included in regulations under subsection  (1) (a)
includes, in particular, provision—

19.3.a

for the CCA to have the function instead of the public authority,

19.3.b

for the function to be exercisable by the CCA concurrently with the public
authority,

19.3.c

for the function to be exercisable by the CCA and the public authority
jointly, or

19.3.d

for the function to be exercisable by the CCA jointly with the public
authority but also continue to be exercisable by the public authority alone.

19.4

Regulations under subsection  (1) (a)  may, in particular, include provision
to abolish the public authority in a case where, as a result of the
regulations, it will no longer have any functions.

19.5

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may not provide for a regulatory function
that is exercisable by a public authority in relation to the whole of England
to be exercisable by a CCA in relation to its area if the regulated function
is itself exercisable by the CCA by virtue of regulations under this section.

19.6

Subsection  (7)  applies where regulations under subsection  (1)  contain a
reference to a document specified or described in the regulations (for
example, in imposing a condition by virtue of subsection  (2) (a)  for an
authority to have regard to, or to comply with, a statement of policy or
standards set out in the document).

19.7

If it appears to the Secretary of State necessary or expedient for the
reference to the document to be construed—

19.7.a

as a reference to that document as amended from time to time, or

19.7.b

as including a reference to a subsequent document that replaces that document,

the regulations may make express provision to that effect.

19.8

See also section 18 of the Cities and Local Government Devolution Act 2016
(devolving health service functions) which contains further limitations.

19.9

In this section—

      “ function ” (except in subsection  (4) ) does not include a power to
make regulations or other instruments of a legislative character;           “
Minister of the Crown ” has the same meaning as in the Ministers of the Crown
Act 1975;           “ public authority ”—         includes a Minister of the
Crown or a government department;           does not include a county council
or a district council;                 “ regulated function ” means the
function of carrying out an activity to which a regulatory function relates;
“ regulatory function ” has the meaning given by section 32 of the Legislative
and Regulatory Reform Act 2006.

###### Section 

20

20.1

The Secretary of State may make regulations under section  19 (1)  only if—

20.1.a

a proposal for the making of the regulations in relation to the CCA has been
made to the Secretary of State—

20.1.a.i

as part of a proposal under section  45 , or

20.1.a.ii

in accordance with section  47 , or

20.1.b

the appropriate consent is given and the Secretary of State considers that the
making of the regulations is likely to improve the economic, social and
environmental well-being of some or all of the people who live or work in the
area or areas to which the regulations relate.

20.2

For the purposes of subsection  (1) (b) , the appropriate consent is given to
the making of regulations under section  19 (1)  only if—

20.2.a

in the case of regulations relating to an existing CCA, each appropriate
authority consents;

20.2.b

in any other case, each constituent council consents.

20.3

The requirements in subsection  (1)  do not apply where the regulations are
made under sections  19 (1)  and  30 (1)  in relation to an existing mayoral
CCA and provide for a function—

20.3.a

to be a function of the CCA, and

20.3.b

to be a function exercisable only by the mayor.

See section  31  in relation to regulations of this kind.

20.4

The requirement in subsection  (1) (b)  for the appropriate consent to be
given to the making of regulations under section  19 (1)  does not apply
where—

20.4.a

the regulations revoke (in whole or in part), or otherwise amend, previous
regulations under section  19 (1) , and

20.4.b

the only purpose of the regulations is to provide for a health service
function of a CCA to cease to be exercisable by the CCA.

20.5

In subsection  (4) (b)  “ health service function of a CCA ” means a function
which—

20.5.a

relates to the health service, as defined by section 275(1) of the National
Health Service Act 2006, and

20.5.b

is exercisable by the CCA by virtue of regulations under section  19 (1) .

20.6

At the same time as laying a draft of a statutory instrument containing
regulations under section  19 (1)  before Parliament, the Secretary of State
must lay before Parliament a report explaining the effect of the regulations
and why the Secretary of State considers it appropriate to make the
regulations.

20.7

The report must include—

20.7.a

a description of any consultation taken into account by the Secretary of
State,

20.7.b

information about any representations considered by the Secretary of State in
connection with the regulations, and

20.7.c

any other evidence or contextual information that the Secretary of State
considers it appropriate to include.

20.8

For the purposes of this section “the appropriate authorities” are—

20.8.a

each constituent council, and

20.8.b

in the case of regulations in relation to an existing CCA, the CCA.

###### Integrated Transport Authority and Passenger Transport Executive

21

21.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations transfer functions of an Integrated
Transport Authority (an “ITA”) to a CCA.

21.2

Regulations under subsection (1) may only be made in relation to functions
exercisable by the ITA in relation to an area that becomes, or becomes part
of, the CCA’s area by virtue of regulations under this Chapter.

21.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide for any function that is
conferred or imposed on a Passenger Transport Executive by any enactment
(whenever passed or made) to be exercisable by a CCA or the executive body of
a CCA in relation to the CCA’s area.

21.4

Regulations under subsection (3) may make provision for any function that—

21.4.a

is conferred or imposed on an ITA by any enactment (whenever passed or made),
and

21.4.b

relates to the functions of a Passenger Transport Executive,

to be exercisable by a CCA in relation to the CCA’s area.

21.5

Regulations under this section may be made in relation to a CCA only with the
consent of—

21.5.a

the constituent councils, and

21.5.b

in the case of regulations in relation to an existing CCA, the CCA.

###### Directions relating to highways and traffic functions

22

22.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations confer on a CCA a power to give a
direction about the exercise of an eligible power.

22.2

An “ eligible power ” means a power of a county council or a unitary district
council which the council has—

22.2.a

as highway authority by virtue of section 1 of the Highways Act 1980, or

22.2.b

as traffic authority by virtue of section 121A of the Road Traffic Regulation
Act 1984.

22.3

In this section references to a power do not include a reference to a duty.

22.4

A power of direction under this section must relate only to the exercise of an
eligible power in—

22.4.a

the area of the CCA, and

22.4.b

the area of the authority subject to the direction.

22.5

A power of direction under this section must relate only to the exercise of an
eligible power in respect of—

22.5.a

a particular road (whether or not specified in the regulations), or

22.5.b

a description of road (whether or not specified in the regulations).

22.6

In subsection  (5)  “road”—

22.6.a

has the meaning given by section 142(1) of the Road Traffic Regulation Act
1984, and

22.6.b

does not include any road which is the subject of a concession agreement under
Part 1 of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991.

22.7

A power of direction under this section must relate only to any one or more
of—

22.7.a

the provision of information about the exercise of an eligible power which the
authority subject to the direction has or might reasonably be expected to
acquire;

22.7.b

the imposition on such an authority of requirements relating to procedures to
be followed prior to the exercise of an eligible power;

22.7.c

the imposition on such an authority of requirements relating to the obtaining
of consent prior to the exercise of an eligible power;

22.7.d

the imposition on such an authority of conditions subject to which an eligible
power may be exercised (including conditions relating to the times at which,
and the manner in which, an eligible power may be exercised);

22.7.e

a requirement to exercise an eligible power (including a requirement to
exercise an eligible power subject to conditions);

22.7.f

a prohibition on the exercise of an eligible power.

22.8

A power of direction under this section may be conferred subject to
conditions.

22.9

Any direction given by virtue of this section—

22.9.a

must be given in writing and may be varied or revoked by a further direction
in writing, and

22.9.b

may make different provision for different cases and different provision for
different areas.

22.10

If regulations under subsection  (1)  make provision for a direction by virtue
of subsection  (7) (e) , the regulations must make provision for the direction
not to have effect unless the CCA meets the cost of complying with the
direction.

22.11

Except as provided for by  section 24 (7) , regulations under subsection  (1)
may be made in relation to a CCA only with the consent of—

22.11.a

the constituent councils, and

22.11.b

in the case of regulations in relation to an existing CCA, the CCA.

###### Contravention of regulations under section 

23

23.1

Regulations under section  22 (1)  may provide that, if an authority exercises
any power in contravention of a direction under such regulations, the CCA may
take such steps as it considers appropriate to reverse or modify the effect of
the exercise of the power.

23.2

For the purposes of subsection  (1) , the CCA has power to exercise any power
of the authority subject to the direction on behalf of that authority.

23.3

Any reasonable expenses incurred by the CCA in taking any steps under
subsection  (1)  are recoverable from the authority subject to the direction
as a civil debt.

###### Designation of key route network roads

24

24.1

A CCA may designate a highway or proposed highway in its area as a key route
network road, or remove its designation as a key route network road, with the
consent of—

24.1.a

each constituent council in whose area the highway or proposed highway is, and

24.1.b

in the case of a mayoral CCA, the mayor.

24.2

The Secretary of State may designate a highway or proposed highway in the area
of a CCA as a key route network road, or remove its designation as a key route
network road, if requested to do so by—

24.2.a

the CCA,

24.2.b

the mayor (if any) of the CCA, or

24.2.c

a constituent council.

24.3

A designation or removal under this section must be in writing and must state
when it comes into effect.

24.4

The Secretary of State must send a copy of a designation or removal under
subsection (2)  to the CCA in question at least 7 days before the date on
which it comes into effect.

24.5

A CCA must publish each designation or removal under this section of a key
route network road within its area before the date on which it comes into
effect.

24.6

A CCA that has key route network roads in its area must keep a list or map (or
both) accessible to the public showing those roads.

24.7

The requirements in  section 22 (11)  and  section 30 (11) (a)  do not apply
to provision under  section 22 (1)  and  section 30 (1)  contained in the same
instrument so far as that provision—

24.7.a

confers a power of direction on an existing mayoral CCA regarding the exercise
of an eligible power in respect of key route network roads in the area of that
CCA,

24.7.b

provides for that power of direction to be exercisable only by the mayor of
the CCA, and

24.7.c

is made with the consent of the mayor after the mayor has consulted the
constituent councils.

24.8

When a mayor consents under  subsection (7) (c) , the mayor must give the
Secretary of State—

24.8.a

a statement by the mayor that all of the constituent councils agree to the
making of the regulations, or

24.8.b

if the mayor is unable to make that statement, the reasons why the mayor
considers the regulations should be made even though not all of the
constituent councils agree to them being made.

24.9

In this section—

      “ eligible power ” has the meaning given by  section 22 (2) ;
“ key route network road ” means a highway or proposed highway designated for
the time being under this section as a key route network road;           “
proposed highway ” means land on which, in accordance with plans made by a
highway authority, that authority are for the time being constructing or
intending to construct a highway shown in the plans.

##### Changes to CCAs

###### Changes to boundaries of a CCA’s area

25

25.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations change the boundaries of a CCA’s
area by—

25.1.a

adding a relevant local government area to an existing area of a CCA, or

25.1.b

removing a relevant local government area from an existing area of a CCA.

25.2

In this section “ relevant local government area ” means—

25.2.a

the area of a two-tier county council,

25.2.b

the area of a unitary county council, or

25.2.c

the area of a unitary district council.

25.3

Regulations under subsection  (1) (b) —

25.3.a

may transfer functions relating to the relevant local government area from the
CCA to any other public authority;

25.3.b

may provide for any function of the CCA relating to the area to be no longer
exercisable in relation to that area.

25.4

In subsection  (3) (a)  “ public authority ” includes—

25.4.a

a Minister of the Crown within the meaning of the Ministers of the Crown Act
1975,

25.4.b

a government department,

25.4.c

a county council, and

25.4.d

a district council.

25.5

Regulations may be made under subsection  (1)  only if the area to be created
by the regulations meets conditions A and B in section  9 .

25.6

Regulations under subsection  (1)  adding or removing a relevant local
government area to or from an existing area of a mayoral CCA may be made only
if—

25.6.a

the relevant council in relation to the relevant local government area
consents, and

25.6.b

the mayor for the area of the CCA consents.

25.7

Regulations under subsection  (1)  adding or removing a relevant local
government area to or from an existing area of a CCA which is not a mayoral
CCA may be made only if—

25.7.a

the relevant council in relation to the relevant local government area
consents, and

25.7.b

the CCA consents.

25.8

For the purposes of subsections  (6) (a)  and  (7) (a) , the “ relevant
council ” in relation to a relevant local government area is—

25.8.a

if the local government area is the area of a county council, the county
council;

25.8.b

if the local government area is the area of a unitary district council, the
unitary district council.

25.9

The question of whether to consent under subsection  (7) (b)  to regulations
under subsection  (1)  is to be decided at a meeting of the CCA by a simple
majority of the voting members of the authority who are present at the
meeting.

25.10

Where regulations under subsection  (1) (b)  are made as a result of the duty
in section  28 (3) —

25.10.a

subsection  (5)  does not apply, and

25.10.b

neither subsection  (6)  nor subsection  (7)  applies.

25.11

Subsection  (12)  applies if a CCA has made provision about its constitution
under regulations under section  10 (1) .

25.12

A decision about any change to that provision as a result of regulations under
subsection  (1)  is to be decided at a meeting of the CCA by a simple majority
of the voting members of the CCA who are present at the meeting.

25.13

A reference in this section to a voting member—

25.13.a

includes a substitute member who may act in place of a voting member;

25.13.b

does not include a non-constituent member.

###### Dissolution of a CCA’s area

26

26.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

26.1.a

dissolve a CCA’s area, and

26.1.b

abolish the CCA for that area.

26.2

Regulations under subsection  (1) —

26.2.a

may transfer functions from the CCA to any other public authority;

26.2.b

may provide for any function of the CCA to be no longer exercisable in
relation to the CCA’s area.

26.3

In subsection  (2) (a)  “ public authority ” includes—

26.3.a

a Minister of the Crown within the meaning of the Ministers of the Crown Act
1975,

26.3.b

a government department,

26.3.c

a county council, and

26.3.d

a district council.

26.4

Regulations may be made under subsection  (1)  only if—

26.4.a

a majority of the constituent councils consent to the making of the
regulations, and

26.4.b

in the case of regulations made in relation to a mayoral CCA, the mayor for
the area of the CCA also consents to the making of the regulations.

##### Mayors for CCA areas

###### Power to provide for election of mayor

27

27.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide for there to be a mayor for
the area of a CCA.

27.2

A mayor for the area of a CCA is to be elected by the local government
electors for that area in accordance with provision made by or under this
Chapter.

27.3

In subsection  (2)  “ local government elector ” has the meaning given by
section 270(1) of the Local Government Act 1972.

27.4

Schedule  2  makes further provision about the election of mayors for areas of
CCAs.

27.5

A mayor for the area of a CCA is entitled to the style of “mayor”.

27.6

A mayor for the area of a CCA is by virtue of that office a member of, and the
chair of, the CCA.

27.7

Regulations under subsection  (1)  providing for there to be a mayor for the
area of a CCA may not be revoked by making further regulations under
subsection  (1) ; but this does not prevent the making of regulations under
section  26 (1)  abolishing the CCA (together with the office of mayor).

27.8

In this Chapter “ mayoral CCA ” means a CCA for an area for which provision is
made in regulations under subsection  (1)  for there to be a mayor.

###### Requirements in connection with regulations under section 

28

28.1

The Secretary of State may make regulations under section  27 (1)  in relation
to a CCA’s area if a proposal for there to be a mayor for the CCA’s area has
been made to the Secretary of State—

28.1.a

as part of a proposal under section  45 , or

28.1.b

in accordance with section  47 .

28.2

Regulations under section  27 (1)  may also be made without any such proposal
having been made if—

28.2.a

the appropriate authorities consent, or

28.2.b

in the case of an existing CCA, there are one or more non-consenting
constituent councils but the CCA and at least two constituent councils
consent.

28.3

Where regulations under section  27 (1)  are made by virtue of subsection  (2)
(b)  of this section, the Secretary of State must make regulations under
section  25 (1) (b)  to remove the area of each non-consenting constituent
council from the existing area of the CCA.

28.4

For the purposes of this section “the appropriate authorities” are—

28.4.a

the constituent councils, and

28.4.b

in the case of regulations in relation to an existing CCA, the CCA.

###### Deputy mayors etc

29

29.1

The mayor for the area of a CCA must appoint one of the members of the
authority to be the mayor’s deputy.

29.2

The deputy mayor holds office until the end of the term of office of the
mayor, subject to subsection  (3) .

29.3

A person ceases to be the deputy mayor if at any time—

29.3.a

the mayor removes the person from office,

29.3.b

the person resigns as deputy mayor, or

29.3.c

the person ceases to be a member of the CCA.

29.4

If a vacancy occurs in the office of deputy mayor, the mayor must appoint
another member of the CCA to be deputy mayor.

29.5

The deputy mayor must act in place of the mayor if for any reason—

29.5.a

the mayor is unable to act, or

29.5.b

the office of mayor is vacant.

29.6

If for any reason—

29.6.a

the mayor is unable to act or the office of mayor is vacant, and

29.6.b

the deputy mayor is unable to act or the office of deputy mayor is vacant,

the other members of the CCA must act together in place of the mayor, taking
decisions by a simple majority.

29.7

In this Chapter “ deputy mayor ”, in relation to a mayoral CCA, means the
person appointed under this section by the mayor for the authority’s area.

29.8

References in this section to a member of a CCA do not include a non-
constituent or associate member.

###### Functions of mayors: general

30

30.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for any function of a
mayoral CCA to be a function exercisable only by the mayor.

30.2

In this Chapter references to “ general functions ”, in relation to a mayor
for the area of a CCA, are to any functions exercisable by the mayor other
than PCC functions (see section  33 (3) ).

30.3

The mayor may arrange—

30.3.a

for the deputy mayor to exercise any general function of the mayor,

30.3.b

for another member or officer of the CCA to exercise any such function,

30.3.c

so far as authorised by regulations made by the Secretary of State—

30.3.c.i

for a person appointed as the deputy mayor for policing and crime by virtue of
regulations under paragraph  3 (1)  of Schedule  3 , or

30.3.c.ii

for a committee of the CCA, consisting of members appointed by the mayor
(whether or not members of the CCA),

to exercise any such function.

30.4

The reference in subsection  (3) (b)  to a member of a CCA does not include a
non-constituent or associate member.

30.5

Regulations under subsection  (3) (c) (ii)  may include provision—

30.5.a

about the membership of the committee;

30.5.b

about the member of the committee who is to be its chair;

30.5.c

about the appointment of members;

30.5.d

about the voting powers of members (including provision for different weight
to be given to the vote of different descriptions of member);

30.5.e

about information held by the CCA that must, or must not, be disclosed to the
committee for purposes connected to the exercise of the committee’s functions;

30.5.f

applying (with or without modifications) sections 15 to 17 of, and Schedule 1
to, the Local Government and Housing Act 1989 (political balance on local
authority committees etc).

30.6

Regulations under subsection  (3) (c)  must provide that the committee must
not consist solely of non-constituent or associate members.

30.7

Provision in regulations under subsection  (1)  for a function to be
exercisable only by the mayor is subject to subsection  (3) ; but the
Secretary of State may by regulations provide that arrangements under
subsection  (3) —

30.7.a

may authorise the exercise of general functions only of a description
specified in the regulations, or

30.7.b

may not authorise the exercise of general functions of a description so
specified.

30.8

Any general function exercisable by the mayor for the area of a CCA by virtue
of this Act is to be taken to be a function of the CCA exercisable—

30.8.a

by the mayor individually, or

30.8.b

in accordance with arrangements made by virtue of this section or section  32
or  34 .

30.9

Regulations under this section may—

30.9.a

include provision for general functions to be exercisable by the mayor subject
to conditions or limitations specified in the regulations (including, for
example, a condition for general functions to be exercisable only with the
consent of the appropriate authorities (as defined by section  28 (4) ));

30.9.b

provide for members or officers of a mayoral CCA to assist the mayor in the
exercise of general functions;

30.9.c

confer ancillary powers on the mayor for the purposes of the exercise of
general functions;

30.9.d

authorise the mayor to appoint one person as the mayor’s political adviser;

30.9.e

provide for the terms and conditions of any such appointment;

30.9.f

provide that functions that the mayoral CCA discharges in accordance with
arrangements under section 101(1)(b) of the Local Government Act 1972
(discharge of local authority functions by another authority) are to be
treated as general functions exercisable by the mayor (so far as authorised by
the arrangements).

30.10

Provision under subsection  (9) (c)  may include provision conferring power on
the mayor that is similar to any power exercisable by the mayoral CCA—

30.10.a

under section  49  (general power of CCA), or

30.10.b

under regulations made under section  52 (1)  (general power of competence),

but the power conferred on the mayor may not include a power to borrow money.

30.11

Except as provided for by  section 24 (7) , regulations under this section may
be made only with the consent of—

30.11.a

the appropriate authorities (as defined by section  28 (4) ), and

30.11.b

in the case of regulations made in relation to an existing mayoral CCA, the
mayor of the CCA.

30.12

Where regulations under this section are contained in the same instrument as
regulations made by virtue of section  28 (2) (b) , a non-consenting
constituent council is not to be treated as an appropriate authority for the
purposes of subsection  (11) .

30.13

The requirement in subsection  (11)  does not apply where the regulations are
made under section  19 (1)  and  subsection (1)  of this section in relation
to an existing mayoral CCA and provide for a function—

30.13.a

to be a function of the CCA, and

30.13.b

to be a function exercisable only by the mayor.

See section  31  in relation to regulations of this kind.

###### Procedure for direct conferral of general functions on mayor

31

31.1

This section applies in relation to regulations which are made under sections
19 (1)  and  30 (1)  in relation to an existing mayoral CCA and provide for a
function—

31.1.a

to be a function of the CCA, and

31.1.b

to be a function exercisable only by the mayor.

31.2

The Secretary of State may make the regulations only if a request for the
making of the regulations has been made to the Secretary of State by the
mayor.

31.3

Before submitting a request under this section, the mayor must consult the
constituent councils.

31.4

A request under this section must contain—

31.4.a

a statement by the mayor that all of the constituent councils agree to the
making of the regulations, or

31.4.b

if the mayor is unable to make that statement, the reasons why the mayor
considers the regulations should be made even though not all of the
constituent councils agree to them being made.

###### Joint exercise of general functions

32

32.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for, or in connection
with, permitting arrangements under section 101(5) of the Local Government Act
1972 to be entered into in relation to general functions of a mayor for the
area of a CCA.

32.2

Provision under subsection  (1)  may include provision—

32.2.a

for the mayor for the area of a CCA to be a party to the arrangements in place
of, or jointly with, the CCA;

32.2.b

about the membership of any joint committee;

32.2.c

about the member of the joint committee who is to be its chair;

32.2.d

about the appointment of members to a joint committee;

32.2.e

about the voting powers of members of a joint committee (including provision
for different weight to be given to the vote of different descriptions of
member).

32.3

Provision under subsection  (2) (b)  to  (d)  may include provision for the
mayor or other persons—

32.3.a

to determine the number of members;

32.3.b

to have the power to appoint members (whether or not members of the CCA or a
local authority that is a party to the arrangements).

32.4

Provision under subsection  (2) (d)  may include provision as to the
circumstances in which appointments to a joint committee need not be made in
accordance with sections 15 to 17 of, and Schedule 1 to, the Local Government
and Housing Act 1989 (political balance on local authority committees etc).

32.5

In this section references to a joint committee are to a joint committee
falling within section 101(5)(a) of the Local Government Act 1972 that is
authorised to discharge, by virtue of regulations under this section, general
functions of a mayor for the area of a CCA.

##### Police and crime and fire and rescue functions

###### Functions of mayors: policing

33

33.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide for the mayor for the area
of a CCA to exercise functions of a police and crime commissioner in relation
to that area.

33.2

The reference in subsection  (1)  to functions of a police and crime
commissioner is to any functions conferred on police and crime commissioners
by or under—

33.2.a

Part 1 of the Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011, or

33.2.b

any other Act (whenever passed).

33.3

In this Chapter references to “ PCC functions ”, in relation to a mayor for
the area of a CCA, are to the functions of a police and crime commissioner
that are exercisable by the mayor by virtue of subsection  (1) .

33.4

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may be made in relation to an existing
mayoral CCA only with the consent of the mayor of the CCA.

33.5

If regulations are made under subsection  (1)  in relation to a CCA’s area—

33.5.a

the Secretary of State must by regulations provide that there is to be no
police and crime commissioner for that area as from a specified date;

33.5.b

the Secretary of State may by regulations provide that any election of a
police and crime commissioner for that area that would otherwise take place
(whether before or after the specified date) by virtue of section 50(1)(b) of
the Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011 is not to take place.

33.6

Regulations under subsection  (5)  may include provision—

33.6.a

for the term of office of a police and crime commissioner to continue until
the date specified in regulations under subsection  (5) (a)  (in spite of
section 50(7)(b) of the Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011);

33.6.b

for an election to fill a vacancy in the office of a police and crime
commissioner, which otherwise would take place under section 51 of that Act,
not to take place if the vacancy occurs within a period of six months ending
with the specified date.

33.7

Schedule  3  contains further provision in connection with regulations under
this section.

33.8

Any PCC function exercisable by the mayor for the area of a CCA by virtue of
this Act is to be taken to be a function of the CCA exercisable—

33.8.a

by the mayor acting individually, or

33.8.b

by a person acting under arrangements with the mayor made in accordance with
provision made under Schedule  3 .

###### Exercise of fire and rescue functions

34

34.1

This section applies to a mayor for the area of a CCA who—

34.1.a

by virtue of section  30 (1) , may exercise functions which are conferred on a
fire and rescue authority in that name (“fire and rescue functions”), and

34.1.b

by virtue of section  33 (1) , may exercise functions of a police and crime
commissioner.

34.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision—

34.2.a

authorising the mayor to arrange for the chief constable of the police force
for the police area which corresponds to the area of the CCA to exercise fire
and rescue functions exercisable by the mayor;

34.2.b

authorising that chief constable to arrange for a person within subsection
(4)  to exercise the chief constable’s fire and rescue functions.

34.3

Regulations under subsection  (2)  may provide that arrangements made under
the regulations—

34.3.a

may authorise the exercise of any functions mentioned in that subsection;

34.3.b

may authorise the exercise of any functions mentioned in that subsection other
than those specified or described in the regulations;

34.3.c

may authorise the exercise of such of the functions mentioned in that
subsection as are specified or described in the regulations.

34.4

The persons mentioned in subsection  (2) (b)  are—

34.4.a

members of the chief constable’s police force;

34.4.b

the civilian staff of that police force, as defined by section 102(4) of the
Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011;

34.4.c

members of staff transferred to the chief constable under a scheme made by
virtue of section  36 (1) ;

34.4.d

members of staff appointed by the chief constable under section  36 (2) .

34.5

Provision in regulations under section  30 (1)  for a function to be
exercisable only by the mayor for the area of a CCA is subject to provision
made by virtue of subsection  (2) .

34.6

This section is subject to—

34.6.a

section  35  (section  34  regulations: procedure), and

34.6.b

section 37 of the Fire and Rescue Services Act 2004 (prohibition on employment
of police in fire-fighting).

34.7

In this section “ fire and rescue functions ”, in relation to a chief
constable, means—

34.7.a

functions which are exercisable by the chief constable by virtue of provision
made under subsection  (2) (a) , and

34.7.b

functions relating to fire and rescue services which are conferred on the
chief constable by or by virtue of any enactment.

###### Section 

35

35.1

Regulations under section  34 (2)  may be made in relation to the mayor for
the area of a CCA only if the mayor has requested the Secretary of State to
make the regulations.

35.2

A request under subsection  (1)  must be accompanied by a report which
contains—

35.2.a

an assessment of why—

35.2.a.i

it is in the interests of economy, efficiency and effectiveness for the
regulations to be made, or

35.2.a.ii

it is in the interests of public safety for the regulations to be made,

35.2.b

a description of any public consultation which the mayor has carried out on
the proposal for the regulations to be made,

35.2.c

a summary of the responses to any such consultation, and

35.2.d

a summary of the representations (if any) which the mayor has received about
that proposal from the constituent members of the CCA.

35.3

Before making the request the mayor must publish, in such manner as the mayor
thinks appropriate, the mayor’s response to the representations made or views
expressed in response to any consultations on the proposal.

35.4

Subsections  (5)  to  (7)  apply if—

35.4.a

the mayor for the area of a CCA makes a request under subsection  (1)  for the
Secretary of State to make regulations under section  34 (2) , and

35.4.b

at least two thirds of the constituent members of the CCA have indicated that
they disagree with the proposal for the regulations to be made.

35.5

The mayor must, in providing the report under subsection  (2) , provide the
Secretary of State with—

35.5.a

copies of the representations (if any) made by the constituent members of the
CCA about that proposal, and

35.5.b

the mayor’s response to those representations and to the responses to any
public consultation which the mayor has carried out on that proposal.

35.6

The Secretary of State must—

35.6.a

obtain an independent assessment of that proposal, and

35.6.b

in deciding whether to make the regulations, have regard to that assessment
and to the material provided under subsection  (5)  (as well as the material
provided under subsection  (2) ).

35.7

The Secretary of State must publish the independent assessment—

35.7.a

as soon as is reasonably practicable after making a determination in response
to the proposal, and

35.7.b

in such manner as the Secretary of State thinks appropriate.

35.8

Regulations under section  34 (2)  may be made only if it appears to the
Secretary of State that—

35.8.a

it is in the interests of economy, efficiency and effectiveness for the
regulations to be made, or

35.8.b

it is in the interests of public safety for the regulations to be made.

35.9

The Secretary of State may not make regulations under section  34 (2)  in a
case within subsection  (8) (a)  of this section if the Secretary of State
thinks that the regulations would have an adverse effect on public safety.

35.10

The Secretary of State may, in making regulations under section  34 (2)  in
relation to the mayor for the area of a CCA, give effect to the mayor’s
proposal for the regulations with such modifications as the Secretary of State
thinks appropriate.

35.11

Before making regulations which give effect to such a proposal with
modifications, the Secretary of State must consult the mayor and the CCA on
the modifications.

35.12

In this section “ constituent member ”, in relation to a CCA, means a member
of the CCA appointed by a constituent council (but does not include the mayor
for the area of the CCA).

###### Section 

36

36.1

Regulations under section  34 (2)  may make provision for the making of a
scheme to transfer property, rights and liabilities (including criminal
liabilities)—

36.1.a

from a fire and rescue authority or the CCA to the chief constable, or

36.1.b

from the chief constable to the CCA,

(including provision corresponding to any provision made by section 17(4) to
(6) of the Localism Act 2011).

36.2

A chief constable to whom regulations under section  34 (2)  apply may appoint
staff for the purpose of the exercise of the chief constable’s fire and rescue
functions.

36.3

A chief constable to whom regulations under section  34 (2)  apply may—

36.3.a

pay remuneration, allowances and gratuities to members of the chief
constable’s fire and rescue staff;

36.3.b

pay pensions to, or in respect of, persons who are or have been such members
of staff;

36.3.c

pay amounts for or towards the provision of pensions to, or in respect of,
persons who are or have been such members of staff.

36.4

In subsection  (3)  “ allowances ”, in relation to a member of staff, means
allowances in respect of expenses incurred by the member of staff in the
course of employment as such a member of staff.

36.5

Subject to subsections  (6)  to  (8) , a person who is employed pursuant to a
transfer by virtue of subsection  (1)  or an appointment under subsection  (2)
may not at the same time be employed pursuant to an appointment by a chief
constable of the police force for a police area under Schedule 2 to the Police
Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011.

36.6

Where regulations under section  34 (2)  are in force in relation to the chief
constable of the police force for a police area, the person who is for the
time being the police force’s chief finance officer is to be responsible for
the proper administration of financial affairs relating to the exercise of the
chief constable’s fire and rescue functions.

36.7

Subsection  (5)  does not prevent a person who is employed as a finance
officer for fire functions from being at the same time employed as a finance
officer for police functions.

36.8

In subsection  (7) —

      “ finance officer for fire functions ” means a member of a chief
constable’s fire and rescue staff who—         is not a chief finance officer
of the kind mentioned in subsection  (6) , and           is employed to carry
out duties relating to the proper administration of financial affairs relating
to the exercise of the chief constable’s fire and rescue functions;
“ finance officer for police functions ” means a member of a chief constable’s
civilian staff within the meaning of the Police Reform and Social
Responsibility Act 2011 who—         is not a chief finance officer of the
kind mentioned in subsection  (6) , and           is employed to carry out
duties relating to the proper administration of a police force’s financial
affairs.

36.9

Where regulations under section  34 (2)  are in force, the CCA to which the
regulations apply must pay—

36.9.a

any damages or costs awarded against the chief constable to whom the
regulations apply in any proceedings brought against the chief constable in
respect of the acts or omissions of a member of the chief constable’s fire and
rescue staff;

36.9.b

any costs incurred by the chief constable in any such proceedings so far as
not recovered by the chief constable in the proceedings;

36.9.c

any sum required in connection with the settlement of any claim made against
the chief constable in respect of the acts or omissions of a member of the
chief constable’s fire and rescue staff, if the settlement is approved by the
CCA.

36.10

Where regulations under section  34 (2)  are in force, the CCA to which the
regulations apply may, in such cases and to such extent as appears to the CCA
to be appropriate, pay—

36.10.a

any damages or costs awarded against a member of the fire and rescue staff of
the chief constable to whom the regulations apply in proceedings for any
unlawful conduct of that member of staff;

36.10.b

costs incurred and not recovered by such a member of staff in such
proceedings;

36.10.c

sums required in connection with the settlement of a claim that has or might
have given rise to such proceedings.

36.11

In this section—

      “ fire and rescue functions ” has the same meaning as in section  34 ;
“ fire and rescue staff ”, in relation to a chief constable to whom
regulations under section  34 (2)  apply, means—         staff transferred to
the chief constable under a scheme made by virtue of subsection  (1) ;
staff appointed by the chief constable under subsection  (2) .

###### Section 

37

37.1

This section applies if—

37.1.a

regulations under section  34 (2)  make provision in relation to the area of a
CCA, and

37.1.b

by virtue of the regulations, fire and rescue functions exercisable by the
mayor for the area of the CCA are exercisable by the chief constable of the
police force for the police area which corresponds to that area.

37.2

The chief constable must secure that good value for money is obtained in
exercising—

37.2.a

functions which are exercisable by the chief constable by virtue of the
regulations, and

37.2.b

functions relating to fire and rescue services which are conferred on the
chief constable by or by virtue of any enactment.

37.3

The chief constable must secure that other persons exercising functions by
virtue of the regulations obtain good value for money in exercising those
functions.

37.4

The mayor must—

37.4.a

secure the exercise of the duties which are exercisable by the chief constable
or another person by virtue of the regulations,

37.4.b

secure the exercise of the duties relating to fire and rescue services which
are imposed on the chief constable by or by virtue of any enactment,

37.4.c

secure that functions which are exercisable by the chief constable or another
person by virtue of the regulations are exercised efficiently and effectively,
and

37.4.d

secure that functions relating to fire and rescue services which are conferred
or imposed on the chief constable by or by virtue of any enactment are
exercised efficiently and effectively.

37.5

The mayor must hold the chief constable to account for the exercise of such
functions.

###### Section 

38

38.1

If regulations are made under section  34 (2)  that enable arrangements to be
made for the exercise of functions by members of a police force or the
civilian staff of a police force, the Secretary of State may by regulations
amend Part 2 of the Police Reform Act 2002 (persons serving with the police:
complaints and conduct matters etc) in consequence of that provision.

38.2

If regulations are made under section  34 (2)  that enable arrangements to be
made for the exercise of functions by members of staff transferred to a chief
constable under a scheme made by virtue of section  36 (1)  or appointed by a
chief constable under section  36 (2) , the Secretary of State may by
regulations make provision of the type described in subsection  (3)  in
relation to those members of staff.

38.3

The provision referred to in subsection  (2)  is—

38.3.a

provision corresponding or similar to any provision made by or under Part 2 of
the Police Reform Act 2002;

38.3.b

provision applying (with or without modifications) any provision made by or
under Part 2 of that Act.

38.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations, in consequence of any provision
made under subsection  (2) , amend Part 2 of the Police Reform Act 2002.

38.5

Before making regulations under this section the Secretary of State must
consult—

38.5.a

the Police Advisory Board for England and Wales,

38.5.b

the Director General of the Independent Office for Police Conduct,

38.5.c

such persons as appear to the Secretary of State to represent the views of
police and crime commissioners,

38.5.d

such persons as appear to the Secretary of State to represent the views of
fire and rescue authorities, and

38.5.e

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

###### Section 

39

39.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

39.1.a

apply (with or without modifications) any provision of a fire and rescue
enactment in relation to a person within subsection  (2) ;

39.1.b

make, in relation to a person within subsection  (2) , provision corresponding
or similar to any provision of a fire and rescue enactment.

39.2

Those persons are—

39.2.a

a chief constable of a police force for a police area to whom regulations
under section  34 (2)  apply,

39.2.b

a member of staff transferred to such a chief constable under a scheme made by
virtue of section  36 (1) ,

39.2.c

a member of staff appointed by such a chief constable under section  36 (2) ,

39.2.d

a member of such a chief constable’s police force by whom functions are
exercisable by virtue of section  34 (2) (b) , and

39.2.e

a member of the civilian staff of such a police force (as defined by section
102(4) of the Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011) by whom
functions are exercisable by virtue of section  34 (2) (b) .

39.3

The power conferred by subsection  (1) (a)  or  (b)  includes power to apply
(with or without modifications) any provision made under a fire and rescue
enactment or make provision corresponding or similar to any such provision.

39.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend, revoke or repeal a provision
of or made under an enactment in consequence of provision made by virtue of
subsection  (1) .

39.5

In this section “ fire and rescue enactment ” means an enactment relating to a
fire and rescue authority (including, in particular, an enactment relating to
an employee of such an authority or property of such an authority).

39.6

References in this section to an enactment or to provision made under an
enactment are to an enactment whenever passed or (as the case may be) to
provision whenever the instrument containing it is made.

###### Section 

40

40.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

40.1.a

apply (with or without modifications) any provision of a local policing
enactment in relation to a person within subsection  (2) ;

40.1.b

make, in relation to such a person, provision corresponding or similar to any
provision of a local policing enactment.

40.2

Those persons are—

40.2.a

a mayor for the area of a CCA to whom regulations under section  34 (2)
apply,

40.2.b

a chief constable to whom such regulations apply, and

40.2.c

a panel established by virtue of regulations under paragraph  4  of Schedule
3  for such an area.

40.3

The power conferred by subsection  (1) (a)  or  (b)  includes power to apply
(with or without modifications) any provision made under a local policing
enactment or make provision corresponding or similar to any such provision.

40.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend, revoke or repeal a provision
of or made under an enactment in consequence of provision made by virtue of
subsection  (1) .

40.5

In this section “ local policing enactment ” means an enactment relating to a
police and crime commissioner.

40.6

References in this section to an enactment or to provision made under an
enactment are to an enactment whenever passed or (as the case may be) to
provision whenever the instrument containing it is made.

##### Financial matters relating to mayors

###### Mayors for CCA areas: financial matters

41

41.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for the costs of a
mayor for the area of a CCA that are incurred in, or in connection with, the
exercise of mayoral functions to be met from precepts issued by the CCA under
section 40 of the Local Government Finance Act 1992.

41.2

The function of issuing precepts under Chapter 4 of Part 1 of the Local
Government Finance Act 1992 in respect of mayoral functions is to be a
function exercisable only by the mayor acting on behalf of the CCA.

41.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations modify the application of Chapter 4
or 4ZA of Part 1 of the Local Government Finance Act 1992 so far as applying
to cases where the precepting authority in question under that Chapter is a
mayoral CCA.

41.4

Where the mayoral functions of a mayor include PCC functions—

41.4.a

the provision made by virtue of subsection  (3)  must include provision to
ensure that the council tax requirement calculated under section 42A of the
Local Government Finance Act 1992 consists of separate components in respect
of the mayor’s PCC functions and the mayor’s general functions, and

41.4.b

the function of calculating the component in respect of the mayor’s PCC
functions is itself to be treated as a PCC function for the purposes of this
Part.

41.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision—

41.5.a

requiring the mayor to maintain a fund in relation to receipts arising, and
liabilities incurred, in the exercise of general functions;

41.5.b

about the preparation of an annual budget in relation to the exercise of
general functions.

(For power to make corresponding provision in relation to PCC functions, see
paragraph  7  of Schedule  3 .)

41.6

Provision under subsection  (5) (b)  may in particular include provision for—

41.6.a

the mayor to prepare a draft budget;

41.6.b

the draft to be scrutinised by—

41.6.b.i

the other members of the CCA, and

41.6.b.ii

a committee of the CCA appointed in accordance with paragraph  1 (1)  of
Schedule  1 ;

41.6.c

the making of changes to the draft as a result of such scrutiny;

41.6.d

the approval of the draft by the CCA (including a power to veto the draft in
circumstances specified in the regulations and the consequences of any such
veto);

41.6.e

the basis on which such approval is to be given.

41.7

The reference in subsection  (6) (b) (i)  to a member of a CCA does not
include a non-constituent or associate member.

41.8

In this section “ mayoral functions ”, in relation to a mayor, means—

41.8.a

the mayor’s general functions, and

41.8.b

if the mayor exercises PCC functions, the mayor’s PCC functions.

##### Alternative mayoral titles

###### Alternative mayoral titles

42

42.1

At the first meeting of a mayoral CCA after regulations made under section  27
(1)  come into force, the CCA must, by a resolution in accordance with
subsection  (3) —

42.1.a

provide that the mayor for the area of the CCA is to be known by the title of
mayor, or

42.1.b

change the title by which the mayor for the area of the CCA is to be known to
an alternative title mentioned in subsection  (2) .

42.2

The alternative titles are—

42.2.a

county commissioner;

42.2.b

county governor;

42.2.c

elected leader;

42.2.d

governor;

42.2.e

a title that the CCA considers more appropriate than the alternative titles
mentioned in paragraphs  (a)  to  (d) , having regard to the title of other
public office holders in the area of the CCA.

42.3

The following requirements must be met in relation to the resolution mentioned
in subsection  (1) —

42.3.a

particulars of the resolution must be included in the notice of the meeting,

42.3.b

where the resolution includes a proposed alternative title mentioned in
subsection  (2) (e) , the resolution must specify why the CCA considers that
the title is more appropriate than the other alternative titles mentioned in
subsection  (2) , and

42.3.c

the resolution must be passed at the meeting by a simple majority of the
members of the CCA who vote on it.

42.4

Subsections  (5)  and  (6)  apply where under this section a mayoral CCA
changes the title by which the mayor for the area of the CCA is to be known to
an alternative title.

42.5

The CCA must—

42.5.a

send notice of the change to the Secretary of State,

42.5.b

publish the notice in the area of the CCA in such manner as the CCA considers
appropriate, and

42.5.c

publish the notice in such other manner as the Secretary of State may direct.

42.6

Where this subsection applies—

42.6.a

a reference in any enactment (whenever passed or made) to the mayor for the
area of the CCA is, unless the context otherwise requires, to be read as a
reference to the alternative title by which the mayor is to be known, and

42.6.b

references to mayor, mayoral (except in the expression “ mayoral CCA ”) and
deputy mayor are to be construed accordingly.

42.7

A change of title under this section does not affect the rights or obligations
of any person or render defective any legal proceedings; and any legal
proceedings may be commenced or continued as if there had been no change of
title.

42.8

In this section a reference to a member of a CCA does not include a non-
constituent member.

42.9

In this section “enactment”—

42.9.a

includes an enactment comprised in subordinate legislation within the meaning
of the Interpretation Act 1978, but

42.9.b

does not include this section or section  43 .

###### Alternative mayoral titles: further changes

43

43.1

This section applies where a mayoral CCA has—

43.1.a

by a resolution under section  42  or by a previous resolution under this
section, changed the title by which the mayor for the area of the CCA is to be
known to an alternative title,

43.1.b

by a resolution under section  42 , provided that the mayor for the area of
the CCA is to be known by the title of mayor, or

43.1.c

by a previous resolution under this section, provided that the mayor for the
area of the CCA is no longer to be known by an alternative title.

43.2

The CCA may, by a resolution in accordance with this section—

43.2.a

in a subsection  (1) (a)  case—

43.2.a.i

provide that the mayor is no longer to be known by the alternative title, or

43.2.a.ii

change the title by which the mayor is to be known to an alternative title
mentioned in subsection  (3) ;

43.2.b

in a subsection  (1) (b)  or  (c)  case, change the title by which the mayor
is to be known to an alternative title mentioned in subsection  (3) .

43.3

The alternative titles mentioned in subsection  (2)  are as follows—

43.3.a

county commissioner;

43.3.b

county governor;

43.3.c

elected leader;

43.3.d

governor;

43.3.e

a title that the CCA considers more appropriate than the alternative titles
mentioned in paragraphs  (a)  to  (d) , having regard to the title of other
public office holders in the area of the CCA.

43.4

The following requirements must be met in relation to the resolution mentioned
in subsection  (2) —

43.4.a

the resolution must be considered at a relevant meeting of the CCA,

43.4.b

particulars of the resolution must be included in the notice of the meeting,

43.4.c

where the resolution includes a proposed alternative title mentioned in
subsection  (3) (e) , the resolution must specify why the CCA considers that
the title is more appropriate than the other alternative titles mentioned in
subsection  (3) , and

43.4.d

the resolution must be passed at the meeting by a simple majority of the
members of the CCA who vote on it.

43.5

In subsection  (4) (a)  “ relevant meeting ” means the first meeting of the
CCA held after a qualifying election for the return of the mayor, provided
that the election is at least the third qualifying election since the
resolution mentioned in subsection  (1)  was passed.

43.6

Where under this section an authority provides that the mayor for the area of
the CCA is no longer to be known by an alternative title, the CCA must—

43.6.a

send notice of the change to the Secretary of State,

43.6.b

publish the notice in the area of the CCA in such manner as the CCA considers
appropriate,

43.6.c

publish the notice in such other manner as the Secretary of State may direct.

43.7

Subsections  (8)  and  (9)  apply where under this section a CCA changes the
title by which the mayor for the area of the CCA is to be known to an
alternative title.

43.8

The authority must—

43.8.a

send notice of the change to the Secretary of State, and

43.8.b

publish the notice in the area of the CCA in such manner as the CCA considers
appropriate,

43.8.c

publish the notice in such other manner as the Secretary of State may direct.

43.9

Where this subsection applies—

43.9.a

a reference in any enactment (whenever passed or made) to the mayor for the
area of the CCA is, unless the context otherwise requires, to be read as a
reference to the alternative title by which the mayor is to be known, and

43.9.b

references to mayor, mayoral (except in the expression “ mayoral CCA ”) and
deputy mayor are to be construed accordingly.

43.10

A change of title under this section does not affect the rights or obligations
of any person, or render defective any legal proceedings; and any legal
proceedings may be commenced or continued as if there had been no change of
title.

43.11

Where a mayoral CCA to which section  42  applies does not pass a resolution
as required by subsection  (1)  of that section, the authority is to be
treated for the purposes of this section as if, at the meeting mentioned in
that subsection, it had passed the resolution mentioned in section  42 (1) (a)
(providing that the mayor is to be known by the title of mayor).

43.12

In this section a reference to a member of a CCA does not include a non-
constituent member.

43.13

In this section—

      “ enactment ” has the same meaning as in section  42 ;           “
qualifying election ” means an election for the return of the mayor, other
than—         the first election for the return of the mayor, and           an
election caused by a vacancy in the office of the mayor occurring before
expiry of the mayor’s term of office.

###### Power to amend list of alternative titles

44

44.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend section  42 (2)  or  43 (3)
to add, modify or remove a reference to an alternative title or a description
of an alternative title.

44.2

In its application to subsection  (1) , section  252 (1) (c)  (power for
regulations to make consequential etc provision) includes power to make
consequential amendments to section  42  or  43 .

##### Requirements in connection with regulations about CCAs

###### Proposal for new CCA

45

45.1

One or more authorities to which this section applies may—

45.1.a

prepare a proposal for the establishment of a CCA for an area, and

45.1.b

submit the proposal to the Secretary of State.

45.2

This section applies to the following authorities—

45.2.a

a county council whose area is within the proposed area;

45.2.b

a unitary district council whose area is within the proposed area;

45.2.c

an economic prosperity board the whole or any part of whose area is within the
proposed area;

45.2.d

an Integrated Transport Authority the whole or any part of whose area is
within the proposed area;

45.2.e

a combined authority the whole or any part of whose area is within the
proposed area.

45.3

In this section “ the proposed area ” means the area for which the CCA is
proposed to be established.

45.4

Before submitting a proposal under this section to the Secretary of State, the
authority or authorities preparing the proposal must—

45.4.a

carry out a public consultation across the proposed area on the proposal, and

45.4.b

have regard to the results of the consultation in preparing the proposal for
submission to the Secretary of State.

45.5

The requirements in subsection  (4)  may be satisfied by things done before
the coming into force of this section.

45.6

If a proposal under this section is not submitted by all of the authorities to
which this section applies, each authority which does not submit the proposal
must consent to its submission to the Secretary of State.

45.7

A proposal under this section must specify the purposes to be achieved by the
establishment of the CCA.

45.8

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

45.8.a

make further provision about the matters which must be addressed by a proposal
under this section;

45.8.b

make provision about material which must be included in or submitted with a
proposal under this section.

###### Requirements in connection with establishment of CCA

46

46.1

The Secretary of State may make regulations establishing a CCA for an area
only if—

46.1.a

the Secretary of State considers that to do so is likely to improve the
economic, social and environmental well-being of some or all of the people who
live or work in the area,

46.1.b

the Secretary of State considers that to do so is appropriate having regard to
the need—

46.1.b.i

to secure effective and convenient local government, and

46.1.b.ii

to reflect the identities and interests of local communities,

46.1.c

where a proposal for the establishment of the CCA has been submitted under
section  45 , the Secretary of State considers that its establishment will
achieve the purposes specified under subsection  (7)  of that section,

46.1.d

the constituent councils consent, and

46.1.e

any consultation required by subsection  (3)  has been carried out.

46.2

If a proposal for the establishment of the CCA has been submitted under
section  45 , the Secretary of State must have regard to the proposal in
making the regulations.

46.3

The Secretary of State must carry out a public consultation unless—

46.3.a

a proposal has been prepared under section  45 ,

46.3.b

a public consultation has been carried out in connection with the proposal and
the Secretary of State has been provided with a summary of the consultation
responses, and

46.3.c

the Secretary of State considers that no further consultation is necessary.

46.4

Subsection  (5)  applies where the Secretary of State is considering whether
to make regulations establishing a CCA for an area and—

46.4.a

part of the area is separated from the rest of it by one or more local
government areas that are not within the area, or

46.4.b

a local government area that is not within the area is surrounded by local
government areas that are within the area.

46.5

In deciding whether to make the regulations, the Secretary of State must have
regard to the likely effect of the creation of the proposed CCA on the
exercise of functions equivalent to those of the proposed CCA’s functions in
each local government area that is next to any part of the proposed CCA area.

46.6

In this Chapter “ local government area ” means the area of a county council
or a district council.

###### Proposal for changes to existing arrangements relating to CCA

47

47.1

One or more authorities to which this section applies may—

47.1.a

prepare a proposal for the making of regulations under section  10 ,  16 ,  18
,  19 ,  21 ,  22 ,  25 ,  26 ,  27 ,  30  or  33  in relation to an existing
CCA, and

47.1.b

submit the proposal to the Secretary of State.

47.2

This section applies to the following authorities—

47.2.a

the CCA;

47.2.b

a county council whose area is within the area of the CCA;

47.2.c

a unitary district council whose area is within the area of the CCA;

47.2.d

in the case of a proposal for the making of regulations under section  25  to
add the area of a county council to the area of the CCA, that county council;

47.2.e

in the case of a proposal for the making of regulations under section  25  to
add the area of a unitary district council to the area of the CCA, that
unitary district council.

47.3

Before submitting a proposal under this section to the Secretary of State, the
authority or authorities preparing the proposal must—

47.3.a

carry out a public consultation across—

47.3.a.i

the area of the CCA, and

47.3.a.ii

in the case of a proposal for the making of regulations under section  25  to
add a relevant local government area to the area of the CCA, that relevant
local government area, and

47.3.b

have regard to the results of the consultation in preparing the proposal for
submission to the Secretary of State.

47.4

The requirements in subsection  (3)  may be satisfied by things done before
the coming into force of this section.

47.5

Before a proposal under this section for the making of regulations is
submitted to the Secretary of State, each person who would have to consent to
the making of the regulations must consent to the submission of the proposal.

47.6

If a proposal under this section is submitted to the Secretary of State by an
authority, the authority is to be treated as having consented to its
submission for the purposes of subsection  (5) .

47.7

In determining for the purposes of subsection  (6)  who would have to consent
to the making of regulations under section  27 , section  28 (2) (b)  (limited
consent requirements) is to be disregarded.

47.8

A proposal under this section must specify the purposes to be achieved by the
regulations which it proposes should be made.

47.9

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

47.9.a

make further provision about the matters which must be addressed by a proposal
under this section;

47.9.b

make provision about material which must be included in or submitted with a
proposal under this section.

###### Requirements for changes to existing arrangements relating to CCA

48

48.1

The Secretary of State may make regulations under section  10 ,  16 ,  18 ,
19 ,  21 ,  22 ,  25 ,  26 ,  27 ,  30  or  33  in relation to an existing CCA
only if—

48.1.a

the Secretary of State considers that to do so is likely to improve the
economic, social and environmental well-being of some or all of the people who
live or work in the area,

48.1.b

the Secretary of State considers that to do so is appropriate having regard to
the need—

48.1.b.i

to secure effective and convenient local government, and

48.1.b.ii

to reflect the identities and interests of local communities,

48.1.c

where a proposal for the making of the regulations has been submitted under
section  47 , the Secretary of State considers that making the regulations
will achieve the purposes specified under subsection  (8)  of that section,
and

48.1.d

any consultation required by subsection  (3)  has been carried out.

48.2

If a proposal for the making of the regulations has been submitted under
section  47 , the Secretary of State must have regard to the proposal in
making the regulations.

48.3

The Secretary of State must carry out a public consultation unless—

48.3.a

a proposal has been prepared under section  47 ,

48.3.b

a public consultation has been carried out in connection with the proposal and
the Secretary of State has been provided with a summary of the consultation
responses, and

48.3.c

the Secretary of State considers that no further consultation is necessary.

48.4

Subsection  (5)  applies where the Secretary of State is considering whether
to make regulations under section  25  and—

48.4.a

part of the area to be created is separated from the rest of it by one or more
local government areas that are not within the area, or

48.4.b

a local government area that is not within the area to be created is
surrounded by local government areas that are within the area.

48.5

In deciding whether to make the regulations under section  25 , the Secretary
of State must have regard to the likely effect of the change to the CCA’s area
on the exercise of functions equivalent to those of the CCA’s functions in
each local government area that is next to any part of the area to be created
by the regulations.

48.6

This section does not apply to regulations under section  25 (1) (b)  that are
made as a result of the duty in section  28 (3) .

##### General powers of CCAs

###### General power of CCA

49

49.1

A CCA may do—

49.1.a

anything it considers appropriate for the purposes of the carrying-out of any
of its functions (its “functional purposes”),

49.1.b

anything it considers appropriate for purposes incidental to its functional
purposes,

49.1.c

anything it considers appropriate for purposes indirectly incidental to its
functional purposes through any number of removes,

49.1.d

anything it considers to be connected with—

49.1.d.i

any of its functions, or

49.1.d.ii

anything it may do under paragraph  (a) ,  (b)  or  (c) , and

49.1.e

for a commercial purpose anything which it may do under any of paragraphs  (a)
to  (d)  otherwise than for a commercial purpose.

49.2

Where subsection  (1)  confers power on a CCA to do something, it confers
power (subject to section  50 ) to do it anywhere in the United Kingdom or
elsewhere.

49.3

Power conferred on a CCA by subsection  (1)  is in addition to, and is not
limited by, its other powers.

49.4

This section does not apply in relation to a CCA in respect of which
regulations under section  52 (1)  have effect.

###### Boundaries of power under section 

50

50.1

Section  49 (1)  does not enable a CCA to do anything which it is unable to do
by virtue of a relevant limitation which is expressed to apply—

50.1.a

to its power under section  49 (1) ,

50.1.b

to all of its powers, or

50.1.c

to all of its powers but with exceptions that do not include its power under
section  49 (1) .

50.2

If exercise of a relevant power of a CCA is subject to restrictions, those
restrictions apply also to exercise of the power conferred on it by section
49 (1)  so far as that power is overlapped by the relevant power.

50.3

Section  49 (1)  does not authorise a CCA to borrow money.

50.4

Section  49 (1) (a)  to  (d)  does not authorise a CCA to charge a person for
anything done by it otherwise than for a commercial purpose (but see section
93 of the Local Government Act 2003 (power of CCAs and other best value
authorities to charge for discretionary services)).

50.5

Section  49 (1) (e)  does not authorise a CCA to do things for a commercial
purpose in relation to a person if a statutory provision requires it to do
those things in relation to the person.

50.6

Where under section  49 (1) (e)  a CCA does things for a commercial purpose,
it must do them through—

50.6.a

a company within the meaning given by section 1(1) of the Companies Act 2006,

50.6.b

a registered society within the meaning of the Co-operative and Community
Benefit Societies Act 2014, or

50.6.c

a society registered or deemed to be registered under the Industrial and
Provident Societies Act (Northern Ireland) 1969.

50.7

In this section—

      “ relevant limitation ” means a prohibition, restriction or other
limitation imposed by a statutory provision;           “ relevant power ”
means a power conferred by a statutory provision;           “ statutory
provision ” means a provision of an Act or of an instrument made under an Act.

###### Power to make provision supplemental to section 

51

51.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision preventing CCAs from
doing under section  49 (1)  anything which is specified, or is of a
description specified, in the regulations.

51.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide for the exercise by CCAs of
power conferred by section  49 (1)  to be subject to conditions, whether
generally or in relation to doing anything specified, or of a description
specified, in the regulations.

51.3

The power under subsection  (1)  or  (2)  may be exercised in relation to—

51.3.a

all CCAs,

51.3.b

particular CCAs, or

51.3.c

particular descriptions of CCAs.

51.4

Before making regulations under subsection  (1)  or  (2)  the Secretary of
State must consult—

51.4.a

such representatives of CCAs,

51.4.b

such representatives of local government, and

51.4.c

such other persons (if any),

as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

51.5

Subsection (4) does not apply to regulations under subsection  (1)  or  (2)
which are made only for the purpose of amending earlier such regulations—

51.5.a

so as to extend the earlier regulations, or any provision of the earlier
regulations, to a particular CCA or to CCAs of a particular description, or

51.5.b

so that the earlier regulations, or any provision of the earlier regulations,
ceases to apply to a particular CCA or to CCAs of a particular description.

###### General power of competence

52

52.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide for Chapter 1 of Part 1 of
the Localism Act 2011 (which confers a general power of competence on local
authorities) to have effect in relation to a CCA specified in the regulations
as it has effect in relation to a local authority.

52.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may be made only with the consent of the
appropriate authorities (as defined by section  28 (4) ).

52.3

Where regulations under subsection  (1)  are contained in the same instrument
as regulations made by virtue of section  28 (2) (b) , a non-consenting
constituent council is not to be treated as an appropriate authority for the
purposes of subsection  (2) .

##### Supplementary

###### Incidental etc provision

53

53.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make incidental, consequential,
transitional, transitory or supplementary provision for the purposes of, or in
consequence of, regulations under this Chapter or for giving full effect to
such regulations.

53.2

Regulations under subsection (1) may not include provision amending or
disapplying sections 15 to 17 of, and Schedule 1 to, the Local Government and
Housing Act 1989 (political balance on local authority committees etc).

###### Transfer of property, rights and liabilities

54

54.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for the transfer of
property, rights and liabilities (including criminal liabilities) for the
purposes of, or in consequence of, regulations under this Chapter or for
giving full effect to such regulations.

54.2

Property, rights and liabilities may be transferred by—

54.2.a

the regulations,

54.2.b

scheme made by the Secretary of State under the regulations, or

54.2.c

a scheme required to be made under the regulations by a person other than the
Secretary of State.

54.3

A transfer by virtue of this section may have effect—

54.3.a

whether or not the property, rights and liabilities would otherwise be capable
of being transferred;

54.3.b

without any instrument or formality being required.

54.4

The rights and liabilities which may be transferred by virtue of this section
include rights and liabilities in relation to a contract of employment.

54.5

The Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employment) Regulations 2006 (
S.I. 2006/246 ) apply to the transfer by virtue of this section (whether or
not the transfer is a relevant transfer for the purposes of those
regulations).

54.6

Regulations under this section or a scheme made under them may define the
property, rights and liabilities to be transferred by specifying or describing
them.

54.7

Provision for the transfer of property, rights and liabilities made by virtue
of this section may include provision—

54.7.a

for the creation or imposition by the Secretary of State of new rights or
liabilities in respect of anything transferred;

54.7.b

for the shared ownership or use of any property or facilities;

54.7.c

for the management or custody of transferred property;

54.7.d

for bodies to make agreements with respect to any property, income, rights,
liabilities and expenses of, and any financial relations between, the parties
to the agreement.

54.8

Provision for the transfer of property, rights and liabilities made by virtue
of this section may include provision—

54.8.a

for the continuing effect of things done by the transferor in relation to
anything transferred;

54.8.b

for the continuation of things (including legal proceedings) in the process of
being done, by or on behalf of or in relation to the transferor in relation to
anything transferred;

54.8.c

for references to the transferor in any agreement (whether written or not),
instrument or other document in relation to anything transferred to be treated
(so far as necessary for the purposes of or in consequence of the transfer) as
references to the transferee.

###### Guidance

55

55.1

The Secretary of State may give guidance about anything that could be done
under or by virtue of this Chapter by an authority to whom this section
applies.

55.2

An authority to whom this section applies must have regard to any guidance
given under this section in exercising any function conferred or imposed by or
by virtue of this Chapter.

55.3

Any guidance under this section must be given in writing and may be varied or
revoked by further guidance in writing.

55.4

Any such guidance may make different provision for different cases and
different provision for different areas.

55.5

This section applies to—

55.5.a

a county council;

55.5.b

a district council;

55.5.c

an Integrated Transport Authority;

55.5.d

a combined authority;

55.5.e

a CCA.

###### Consequential amendments

56

Schedule 4  (combined county authorities: consequential amendments) has
effect.

###### Interpretation of Chapter

57

In this Chapter—

      “ associate member ” has the meaning given by section  12 (1) ;
“ CCA ” has the meaning given by section  9 (1) ;           “ combined
authority ” has the meaning given by section  9 (5) ;           “ constituent
council ” has the meaning given by section  10 (11) ;           “ deputy mayor
” has the meaning given by section  29 (7) ;           “ economic prosperity
board ” has the meaning given by section  9 (5) ;           “ fire and rescue
authority ” means a fire and rescue authority under the Fire and Rescue
Services Act 2004;           “ general functions ” has the meaning given by
section  30 (2) ;           “ Integrated Transport Authority ” has the meaning
given by section  9 (5) ;           “ local government area ” has the meaning
given by section  46 (6) ;           “ mayor ”, in relation to the area of a
CCA, means the mayor for the area of the CCA by virtue of regulations under
section  27 (1) ;           “ mayoral CCA ” has the meaning given by section
27 (8) ;           “ nominating body ” means a body designated under section
11 (1) ;           “ non-constituent member ” has the meaning given by section
11 (3) ;           “ PCC functions ” has the meaning given by section  33 (3)
;           “ two-tier county council ” has the meaning given by section  9
(5) ;           “ unitary county council ” has the meaning given by section  9
(5) ;           “ unitary district council ” has the meaning given by section
9 (5) .

#### Other provision

##### Combined authorities

###### Review of combined authority’s constitutional arrangements

58

After section 104C of the Local Democracy, Economic Development and
Construction Act 2009 (inserted by section  64 (8) ) insert—

########## Review of combined authority’s constitutional arrangements

58.104D

58.104D.1

This section applies if an order under section 104(1) (constitution of
combined authority) enables a combined authority to make provision about its
constitution (“constitutional provision”).

58.104D.2

An appropriate person may carry out a review of the combined authority’s
constitutional provision if—

58.104D.2.a

an appropriate person proposes a review, and

58.104D.2.b

the combined authority consents to the review.

58.104D.3

If an appropriate person carries out a review under subsection  (2) , they may
propose changes to the combined authority’s constitutional provision as a
result of the review for agreement by the authority.

58.104D.4

The question of whether to consent under subsection  (2) (b)  or to agree to
changes proposed under subsection  (3)  is to be decided at a meeting of the
combined authority by a simple majority of the voting members of the authority
who are present at the meeting.

58.104D.5

In the case of a mayoral combined authority—

58.104D.5.a

a majority in favour of consenting under subsection  (2) (b)  does not need to
include the mayor, but

58.104D.5.b

a majority in favour of changes proposed under subsection  (3)  must include
the mayor.

58.104D.6

The reference in subsection  (4)  to a voting member—

58.104D.6.a

includes a substitute member who may act in place of a voting member;

58.104D.6.b

does not include a non-constituent member.

58.104D.7

Subsection  (4)  applies instead of—

58.104D.7.a

any provision of an order under section 104(1) made before the coming into
force of this section which is about the procedure applying to a decision on a
question of a kind mentioned in subsection  (4) , and

58.104D.7.b

any constitutional provision of a combined authority about such procedure.

58.104D.8

In this section “ appropriate person ”, in relation to a combined authority,
means—

58.104D.8.a

a member of the authority appointed by a county council the whole or any part
of whose area is within the area of the authority,

58.104D.8.b

a member of the authority appointed by a district council whose area is within
the area of the authority, or

58.104D.8.c

the mayor for the area of the authority (if it is a mayoral combined
authority).

###### Consent to changes to combined authority’s area

59

59.1

The Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009 is amended
as follows.

59.2

In section 104 (constitution of combined authority), after subsection (11)
insert—

59.2.11A

If the only provision made under this section in an order under this Part is
provision as a result of an order under section 106 (changes to boundaries of
combined authority’s area)—

59.2.11A.a

subsection (10) does not apply to the order under this Part, and

59.2.11A.b

subsections (3A) to (3H) of section 106 apply in relation to the order as if
it contained the provision made by the order under section 106.

59.3

Section 106 (changes to boundaries of combined authority’s area) is amended in
accordance with subsections  (4)  to  (9) .

59.4

For subsection (3A) substitute—

59.4.3A

An order under this section adding or removing a local government area to or
from an existing area of a mayoral combined authority may be made only if—

59.4.3A.a

the relevant council in relation to the local government area consents, and

59.4.3A.b

the mayor for the area of the combined authority consents.

59.4.3AA

An order under this section adding or removing a local government area to or
from an existing area of a combined authority which is not a mayoral combined
authority may be made only if—

59.4.3AA.a

the relevant council in relation to the local government area consents, and

59.4.3AA.b

the combined authority consents.

59.5

In subsection (3B), for “subsection (3A)(a)” substitute  “subsections (3A)(a)
and (3AA)(a)” .

59.6

In subsection (3C), after “subsection (3A)(a)” insert  “or (3AA)(a)” .

59.7

After subsection (3C) insert—

59.7.3CA

The question of whether to consent under subsection  (3AA) (b)  to an order
under this section is to be decided at a meeting of the combined authority by
a simple majority of the voting members of the authority who are present at
the meeting.

59.7.3CB

Subsection (3CA) applies instead of—

59.7.3CB.a

any provision of an order under section 104(1) made before the coming into
force of that subsection which is about the procedure applying to a decision
on a question of the kind mentioned in that subsection, and

59.7.3CB.b

any provision made by a combined authority about its constitution under such
an order about such procedure.

59.8

For subsection (3D) substitute—

59.8.3D

Where an order under subsection (1)(b) is made as a result of the duty in
section 105B(5) or 107B(4)—

59.8.3D.a

subsection (2) does not apply, and

59.8.3D.b

neither subsection (3A) nor subsection (3AA) applies.

59.9

After subsection (3D) insert—

59.9.3E

Subsection (3F) applies if a combined authority has made provision about its
constitution under an order under section 104(1).

59.9.3F

A decision about any change to that provision as a result of an order under
this section is to be decided at a meeting of the combined authority by a
simple majority of the voting members of the authority who are present at the
meeting.

59.9.3G

Subsection (3F) applies instead of—

59.9.3G.a

any provision of an order under section 104(1) made before the coming into
force of that subsection which is about the procedure applying to a decision
on a question of the kind mentioned in that subsection, and

59.9.3G.b

any provision made by a combined authority about its constitution under such
an order about such procedure.

59.9.3H

A reference in this section to a voting member—

59.9.3H.a

includes a substitute member who may act in place of a voting member;

59.9.3H.b

does not include a non-constituent member.

###### Changes to mayoral combined authority’s area: additional requirements

60

60.1

An order under section 106 of the Local Democracy, Economic Development and
Construction Act 2009 which adds a local government area to an existing area
of a mayoral combined authority may only be made during the relevant period if
the consultation requirements in subsection (2) are met.

60.2

The consultation requirements are as follows—

60.2.a

the Secretary of State has consulted the Local Government Boundary Commission
for England,

60.2.b

the mayor for the area of the combined authority has consulted the residents
of the local government area which is to be added to that area, and

60.2.c

the mayor has given the Secretary of State a report providing information
about the consultation carried out under paragraph (b), and the Secretary of
State has laid the report before Parliament.

60.3

In this section, “ the relevant period ” means the period of 9 months
beginning with the day on which this Act is passed.

###### Consent to conferral of general functions on mayor

61

61.1

The Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009 is amended
as follows.

61.2

In section 104 (constitution of combined authority), after subsection (11A)
(inserted by section  59 (2) ) insert—

61.2.11B

If the only provision made under this section in an order under this Part is
provision as a result of an order to which section 107DA (procedure for direct
conferral of general functions on mayor) applies—

61.2.11B.a

subsection (10) does not apply to the order under this Part, and

61.2.11B.b

the order may be made only with the consent of the mayor for the combined
authority.

61.3

In section 105B (section 105A orders: procedure), after subsection (5) insert—

61.3.5A

The requirements in subsection (1) do not apply where the order is made under
sections 105A and 107D in relation to an existing mayoral combined authority
and provides for a function—

61.3.5A.a

to be a function of the combined authority, and

61.3.5A.b

to be a function exercisable only by the mayor.

See section 107DA in relation to an order of this kind.

61.4

In section 107D (functions of mayors: general), after subsection (10) insert—

61.4.11

The requirement in subsection (9) does not apply where the order is made under
section 105A and this section in relation to an existing mayoral combined
authority and provides for a function—

61.4.11.a

to be a function of the combined authority, and

61.4.11.b

to be a function exercisable only by the mayor.

See section 107DA in relation to an order of this kind.

61.5

After section 107D insert—

############ Procedure for direct conferral of general functions on mayor

61.5.107DA

61.5.107DA.1

This section applies in relation to an order which is made under sections 105A
and 107D in relation to an existing mayoral combined authority and provides
for a function—

61.5.107DA.1.a

to be a function of the combined authority, and

61.5.107DA.1.b

to be a function exercisable only by the mayor.

61.5.107DA.2

The Secretary of State may make the order only if a request for the making of
the order has been made to the Secretary of State by the mayor.

61.5.107DA.3

Before submitting a request under this section, the mayor must consult the
constituent councils.

61.5.107DA.4

A request under this section must contain—

61.5.107DA.4.a

a statement by the mayor that all of the constituent councils agree to the
making of the order, or

61.5.107DA.4.b

if the mayor is unable to make that statement, the reasons why the mayor
considers the order should be made even though not all of the constituent
councils agree to it being made.

61.5.107DA.5

In this section “ constituent council ” means—

61.5.107DA.5.a

a county council the whole or any part of whose area is within the area of the
combined authority, or

61.5.107DA.5.b

a district council whose area is within the area of the combined authority.

###### Consent to conferral of police and crime commissioner functions on mayor

62

62.1

Section 107F of the Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act
2009 (functions of mayors: policing) is amended as follows.

62.2

For subsection (4) substitute—

62.2.4

An order under subsection (1) may be made in relation to an existing mayoral
combined authority only with the consent of the mayor of the authority.

62.3

Omit subsection (9).

###### Functions in respect of key route network roads

63

63.1

The Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009 is amended
as follows.

63.2

In section 104, in subsection (10), for “An” substitute  “Except as provided
for by  section 107ZA (7) , an” .

63.3

In section 107D, in subsection (9), for “An” substitute  “Except as provided
for by  section 107ZA (7) , an” .

63.4

After section 107 insert—

############ Combined authorities: key route network roads

############# Designation of key route network roads

63.4.107ZA

63.4.107ZA.1

A combined authority may designate a highway or proposed highway in its area
as a key route network road, or remove its designation as a key route network
road, with the consent of—

63.4.107ZA.1.a

each constituent council in whose area the highway or proposed highway is, and

63.4.107ZA.1.b

in the case of a mayoral combined authority, the mayor.

63.4.107ZA.2

The Secretary of State may designate a highway or proposed highway in the area
of a combined authority as a key route network road, or remove its designation
as a key route network road, if requested to do so by—

63.4.107ZA.2.a

the combined authority,

63.4.107ZA.2.b

the mayor (if any) of the combined authority, or

63.4.107ZA.2.c

a constituent council.

63.4.107ZA.3

A designation or removal under this section must be in writing and must state
when it comes into effect.

63.4.107ZA.4

The Secretary of State must send a copy of a designation or removal under
subsection (2)  to the combined authority in question at least 7 days before
the date on which it comes into effect.

63.4.107ZA.5

A combined authority must publish each designation or removal under this
section of a key route network road within its area before the date on which
it comes into effect.

63.4.107ZA.6

A combined authority that has key route network roads in its area must keep a
list or map (or both) accessible to the public showing those roads.

63.4.107ZA.7

The requirements in section 104(10) and section 107D(9)(a) do not apply to
provision under section 104(1)(d) and section 107D(1) contained in the same
instrument so far as that provision—

63.4.107ZA.7.a

confers a power of direction on an existing mayoral combined authority
regarding the exercise of an eligible power in respect of key route network
roads in the area of that combined authority,

63.4.107ZA.7.b

provides for that power of direction to be exercisable only by the mayor of
the combined authority, and

63.4.107ZA.7.c

is made with the consent of the mayor after the mayor has consulted the
constituent councils.

63.4.107ZA.8

When a mayor consents under  subsection (7) (c) , the mayor must give the
Secretary of State—

63.4.107ZA.8.a

a statement by the mayor that all of the constituent councils agree to the
making of the order, or

63.4.107ZA.8.b

if the mayor is unable to make that statement, the reasons why the mayor
considers the order should be made even though not all of the constituent
councils agree to it being made.

63.4.107ZA.9

In this section—

      “ constituent council ” has the meaning given in section 104(11);
“ eligible power ” has the meaning given by section 88(2) of the Local
Transport Act 2008;           “ key route network road ” means a highway or
proposed highway designated for the time being under this section as a key
route network road;           “ proposed highway ” means land on which, in
accordance with plans made by a highway authority, that authority are for the
time being constructing or intending to construct a highway shown in the
plans.

###### Membership of combined authority

64

64.1

The Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009 is amended
as follows.

64.2

Section 104 (constitution of combined authority) is amended in accordance with
subsections  (3)  to  (7) .

64.3

In subsection (2), for “85” substitute  “85(1) to (3)” .

64.4

For subsection (2A) substitute—

64.4.2A

But—

64.4.2A.a

section 84 of that Act, in its application to a combined authority by virtue
of subsection (1)(a), is subject to—

64.4.2A.a.i

sections  104A  and  104B  and regulations under section  104C  (combined
authority membership), and

64.4.2A.a.ii

sections  104D (4)  and 106 (3CA)  and  (3F)  (procedure for combined
authority consents), and

64.4.2A.b

section 85(1) of that Act, in its application to a combined authority by
virtue of subsection (2), is subject to subsections (2AA) and (2B).

64.5

After subsection (2A) insert—

64.5.2AA

Section 85(1)(a) has effect as if it required an order which includes
provision about the number and appointment of members of a combined authority
to provide for the authority’s members, other than—

64.5.2AA.a

the mayor (in the case of a mayoral combined authority),

64.5.2AA.b

the authority’s non-constituent members (see section 104A), and

64.5.2AA.c

the authority’s associate members (see section 104B),

to be appointed by the authority’s constituent councils.

64.6

Omit subsection (2C).

64.7

In subsection (11), for “subsection (10)” substitute  “this section” .

64.8

After section 104 insert—

############ Non-constituent members of a combined authority

64.8.104A

64.8.104A.1

A combined authority may designate a body other than a constituent council as
a nominating body for the purposes of this Part.

64.8.104A.2

A body may be designated under subsection  (1)  only if the body consents to
the designation.

64.8.104A.3

A nominating body of a combined authority may nominate a representative of the
body for appointment by the authority as a member (a “non-constituent
member”).

64.8.104A.4

The non-constituent members of a combined authority are to be non-voting
members of that authority unless the voting members resolve otherwise.

64.8.104A.5

A resolution under subsection  (4)  does not permit non-constituent members to
vote on a decision whether the combined authority should consent to the making
of an order under this Part.

64.8.104A.6

This section is subject to regulations under section  104C (4)
(disapplication of this section).

64.8.104A.7

In this section “ constituent council ”, in relation to a combined authority,
means—

64.8.104A.7.a

a county council the whole or any part of whose area is within the area of the
authority, or

64.8.104A.7.b

a district council whose area is within the area of the authority.

############ Associate members of a combined authority

64.8.104B

64.8.104B.1

A combined authority may appoint an individual to be a member (“an associate
member”) of the combined authority.

64.8.104B.2

The associate members of a combined authority are to be non-voting members of
the authority.

64.8.104B.3

This section is subject to regulations under section  104C (4)
(disapplication of this section).

############ Regulations about members

64.8.104C

64.8.104C.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about—

64.8.104C.1.a

constituent members of a combined authority;

64.8.104C.1.b

the mayor for the area of a combined authority in the mayor’s capacity as a
member of the authority;

64.8.104C.1.c

nominating bodies of a combined authority;

64.8.104C.1.d

non-constituent members of a combined authority;

64.8.104C.1.e

associate members of a combined authority.

64.8.104C.2

The provision that may be made by regulations under subsection  (1)  includes,
in particular, provision about—

64.8.104C.2.a

the cases in which a decision of a combined authority requires a majority, or
a particular kind of majority, of the votes of members of a particular kind;

64.8.104C.2.b

the process for the designation of a nominating body or the removal of such a
designation;

64.8.104C.2.c

the number of nominating bodies that may be designated by a combined
authority;

64.8.104C.2.d

the number of non-constituent members that may be appointed by a combined
authority;

64.8.104C.2.e

the appointment, disqualification, resignation or removal of a non-constituent
member;

64.8.104C.2.f

the appointment of a substitute member to act in place of a non-constituent
member;

64.8.104C.2.g

the maximum number of non-constituent members of a combined authority;

64.8.104C.2.h

the making by a nominating body of a combined authority of payments towards
the costs of the authority;

64.8.104C.2.i

the things which may or may not be done by, or in relation to, a non-
constituent member;

64.8.104C.2.j

the appointment, disqualification, resignation or removal of an associate
member;

64.8.104C.2.k

the appointment of a substitute member to act in place of an associate member;

64.8.104C.2.l

the maximum number of associate members of a combined authority;

64.8.104C.2.m

the things which may or may not be done by, or in relation to, an associate
member.

64.8.104C.3

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may confer a discretion on a combined
authority to determine any matter.

64.8.104C.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide, in relation to a combined
authority established by an order which came into force before the coming into
force of this section—

64.8.104C.4.a

for the relevant provisions about membership not to apply in relation to the
authority, or

64.8.104C.4.b

for the authority to determine whether the relevant provisions about
membership are to apply in relation to the authority.

64.8.104C.5

In subsection  (4)  “ the relevant provisions about membership ” means—

64.8.104C.5.a

the amendments to section 104 made by section  64 (2)  to  (7)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023, and

64.8.104C.5.b

sections 104A and 104B.

64.8.104C.6

Regulations under subsection  (1)  or  (4)  may make incidental,
supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision.

64.8.104C.7

In this section “ constituent member ”, in relation to a combined authority,
means a member of the authority (other than any mayor for the area of the
authority) appointed by—

64.8.104C.7.a

a county council the whole or any part of whose area is within the area of the
authority, or

64.8.104C.7.b

a district council whose area is within the area of the authority.

64.9

In section 105 (constitution of combined authority), after subsection (3)
insert—

64.9.3ZA

But section 92, in its application to a combined authority by virtue of
subsection (3), is subject to regulations under section  104C (1)  (combined
authority membership).

64.10

In section 107C (deputy mayors etc), after subsection (6) insert—

64.10.6A

References in this section to a member of a combined authority do not include
a non-constituent or associate member.

64.11

In section 107D (functions of mayors: general)—

64.11.a

after subsection (3) insert—

64.11.a.3A

The reference in subsection (3)(b) to a member of a combined authority does
not include a non-constituent or associate member.

, and

64.11.b

after subsection (4) insert—

64.11.b.4A

An order under subsection (3)(c) must provide that the committee must not
consist solely of non-constituent or associate members.

64.12

In section 107G (mayors for combined authority areas: financial provision),
after subsection (6) insert—

64.12.6A

The reference in subsection (6)(b)(i) to a member of a combined authority does
not include a non-constituent or associate member.

64.13

In section 120 (interpretation), at the appropriate places insert—

      “ associate member ” has the meaning given by section  104B (1) ;”,

;

      “ nominating body ” means a body designated under section  104A (1) ;

, and

      “ non-constituent member ” has the meaning given by section  104A (3) ;

.

###### Proposal for establishment of combined authority

65

65.1

The Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009 is amended
in accordance with subsections  (2)  to  (8) .

65.2

Omit sections 108 (review by authorities: new combined authority) and 109
(preparation and publication of scheme: new combined authority).

65.3

Before section 110 insert—

############ Proposal for new combined authority

65.3.109A

65.3.109A.1

One or more authorities to which this section applies may—

65.3.109A.1.a

prepare a proposal for the establishment of a combined authority for an area,
and

65.3.109A.1.b

submit the proposal to the Secretary of State.

65.3.109A.2

This section applies to the following authorities—

65.3.109A.2.a

a county council the whole or any part of whose area is within the proposed
area;

65.3.109A.2.b

a district council whose area is within the proposed area;

65.3.109A.2.c

an EPB the whole or any part of whose area is within the proposed area;

65.3.109A.2.d

an ITA the whole or any part of whose area is within the proposed area;

65.3.109A.2.e

a combined county authority the whole or any part of whose area is within the
proposed area.

65.3.109A.3

In this section—

      “ combined county authority ” means a combined county authority
established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act
2023;           “ the proposed area ” means the area for which the combined
authority is proposed to be established.

65.3.109A.4

Before submitting a proposal under this section to the Secretary of State, the
authority or authorities preparing the proposal must—

65.3.109A.4.a

carry out a public consultation across the proposed area on the proposal, and

65.3.109A.4.b

have regard to the results of the consultation in preparing the proposal for
submission to the Secretary of State.

65.3.109A.5

The requirements in subsection  (4)  may be satisfied by things done before
the coming into force of this section.

65.3.109A.6

If a proposal under this section is not submitted by all of the authorities to
which this section applies, each authority which does not submit the proposal
must consent to its submission to the Secretary of State.

65.3.109A.7

A proposal under this section must specify the purposes to be achieved by the
establishment of the combined authority.

65.3.109A.8

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

65.3.109A.8.a

make further provision about the matters which must be addressed by a proposal
under this section;

65.3.109A.8.b

make provision about material which must be included in or submitted with a
proposal under this section.

65.3.109A.9

Regulations under  subsection (8)  may make incidental, supplementary,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision.

65.4

Section 110 (requirements in connection with establishment of combined
authority) is amended in accordance with subsections  (5)  to  (8) .

65.5

In subsection (1), for paragraph (a) substitute—

65.5.a

the Secretary of State considers that to do so is likely to improve the
economic, social and environmental well-being of some or all of the people who
live or work in the area,

65.5.aa

the Secretary of State considers that to do so is appropriate having regard to
the need—

65.5.aa.i

to secure effective and convenient local government, and

65.5.aa.ii

to reflect the identities and interests of local communities,

65.5.ab

where a proposal for the establishment of the combined authority has been
submitted under section 109A, the Secretary of State considers that its
establishment will achieve the purposes specified under  subsection (7)  of
that section,

.

65.6

For subsection (1A) substitute—

65.6.1A

If a proposal for the establishment of the combined authority has been
submitted under section 109A, the Secretary of State must have regard to the
proposal in making the order.

65.7

In subsection (2), for paragraphs (a) and (b) (and the “and” at the end of
paragraph (b)) substitute—

65.7.a

a proposal has been prepared under section 109A,

65.7.b

a public consultation has been carried out in connection with the proposal and
the Secretary of State has been provided with a summary of the consultation
responses, and

.

65.8

Omit subsection (4).

65.9

This section does not affect—

65.9.a

the operation of section 108 of the Local Democracy, Economic Development and
Construction Act 2009 in relation to a review that began before this section
came into force, or

65.9.b

the operation of section 109 of that Act in relation to the preparation and
publication of a scheme following such a review.

65.10

The amendments made by subsections  (5)  to  (8)  do not apply to section 110
of that Act as it has effect in relation to—

65.10.a

the making of an order in response to a scheme under section 109 of that Act,
or

65.10.b

the making of an order otherwise than in response to a scheme, where a draft
of the statutory instrument containing the order was laid before Parliament
before the coming into force of this section.

###### Proposal for changes to existing combined arrangements

66

66.1

The Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009 is amended
in accordance with subsections  (2)  to  (9) .

66.2

Omit sections 111 (review by authorities: existing combined authority) and 112
(preparation and publication of scheme: existing combined authority).

66.3

Before section 113 insert—

############ Proposal for changes to existing combined arrangements

66.3.112A

66.3.112A.1

One or more authorities to which this section applies may—

66.3.112A.1.a

prepare a proposal for the making of an order under section 104, 105, 105A,
106, 107, 107A, 107D or 107F in relation to an existing combined authority,
and

66.3.112A.1.b

submit the proposal to the Secretary of State.

66.3.112A.2

This section applies to the following authorities—

66.3.112A.2.a

the combined authority;

66.3.112A.2.b

a county council the whole or any part of whose area is within the area of the
combined authority;

66.3.112A.2.c

a district council whose area is within the area of the combined authority;

66.3.112A.2.d

in the case of a proposal for the making of an order under section 106 to add
all or part of the area of a county council to the area of the combined
authority, that county council;

66.3.112A.2.e

in the case of a proposal for the making of an order under section 106 to add
the area of a district council to the area of the combined authority, that
district council.

66.3.112A.3

Before submitting a proposal under this section to the Secretary of State, the
authority or authorities preparing the proposal must—

66.3.112A.3.a

carry out a public consultation across—

66.3.112A.3.a.i

the area of the combined authority, and

66.3.112A.3.a.ii

in the case of a proposal for the making of an order under section 106 to add
a local government area to the area of the combined authority, that local
government area, and

66.3.112A.3.b

have regard to the results of the consultation in preparing the proposal for
submission to the Secretary of State.

66.3.112A.4

The requirements in subsection  (3)  may be satisfied by things done before
the coming into force of this section.

66.3.112A.5

Before a proposal under this section for the making of an order is submitted
to the Secretary of State, each person who would have to consent to the making
of the order must consent to the submission of the proposal.

66.3.112A.6

If a proposal under this section is submitted to the Secretary of State by an
authority, the authority is to be treated as having consented to its
submission for the purposes of  subsection (5) .

66.3.112A.7

In determining for the purposes of  subsection (5)  who would have to consent
to the making of an order under section 105A, subsections (3) and (4) of
section 105B (limited consent requirements) are to be disregarded.

66.3.112A.8

In determining for the purposes of  subsection (5)  who would have to consent
to the making of an order under section 107A, section 107B(3)(b) (limited
consent requirements) is to be disregarded.

66.3.112A.9

A proposal under this section must specify the purposes to be achieved by the
order which it proposes should be made.

66.3.112A.10

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

66.3.112A.10.a

make further provision about the matters which must be addressed by a proposal
under this section;

66.3.112A.10.b

make provision about material which must be included in or submitted with a
proposal under this section.

66.3.112A.11

Regulations under  subsection (10)  may make incidental, supplementary,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision.

66.4

Section 113 (requirements in connection with changes to existing combined
arrangements) is amended in accordance with subsections  (5)  to  (9) .

66.5

In subsection (1), for “106 or 107” substitute  “105A, 106, 107, 107A, 107D or
107F” .

66.6

In subsection (1), for paragraph (a) (and the “and” at the end of that
paragraph) substitute—

66.6.a

the Secretary of State considers that to do so is likely to improve the
economic, social and environmental well-being of some or all of the people who
live or work in the area,

66.6.aa

the Secretary of State considers that to do so is appropriate having regard to
the need—

66.6.aa.i

to secure effective and convenient local government, and

66.6.aa.ii

to reflect the identities and interests of local communities,

66.6.ab

where a proposal for the making of the order has been submitted under section
112A, the Secretary of State considers that making the order will achieve the
purposes specified under  subsection (9)  of that section, and

.

66.7

For subsection (1A) substitute—

66.7.1A

If a proposal for the making of the order has been submitted under section
112A, the Secretary of State must have regard to the proposal in making the
order.

66.8

In subsection (2), for paragraphs (a) and (b) (and the “and” at the end of
paragraph (b)) substitute—

66.8.a

a proposal has been prepared under section 112A,

66.8.b

a public consultation has been carried out in connection with the proposal and
the Secretary of State has been provided with a summary of the consultation
responses, and

.

66.9

Omit subsection (3).

66.10

This section does not affect—

66.10.a

the operation of section 111 of the Local Democracy, Economic Development and
Construction Act 2009 in relation to a review that began before this section
came into force, or

66.10.b

the operation of section 112 of that Act in relation to the preparation and
publication of a scheme following such a review.

66.11

The amendments made by subsections  (5)  to  (9)  do not apply to section 113
of that Act as it has effect in relation to—

66.11.a

the making of an order in response to a scheme under section 112 of that Act,
or

66.11.b

the making of an order otherwise than in response to a scheme, where a draft
of the statutory instrument containing the order was laid before Parliament
before the coming into force of this section.

66.12

The requirement to consult under section 113(2) of the Local Democracy,
Economic Development and Construction Act 2009, as amended by this section,
may be satisfied by consultation before (as well as after) the passing of this
Act.

###### Consequential amendments relating to section 

67

67.1

The Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009 is amended
as follows.

67.2

In section 105B (section 105A orders: procedure)—

67.2.a

in subsection (1)—

67.2.a.i

in paragraph (a), for “by the appropriate authorities,” substitute

—

67.2.a.i.i

as part of a proposal under section 109A, or

67.2.a.i.ii

in accordance with section 112A,

, and

67.2.a.ii

in paragraph (b), for the words from “the exercise” to the end of the
paragraph substitute  “the economic, social and environmental well-being of
some or all of the people who live or work in the area or areas to which the
order relates” , and

67.2.b

omit subsection (11).

67.3

In section 107B (requirements in connection with orders under section 107A)—

67.3.a

in subsection (1), for “by the appropriate authorities,” substitute

—

67.3.a.a

as part of a proposal under section 109A, or

67.3.a.b

in accordance with section 112A,

, and

67.3.b

omit subsection (2).

67.4

The amendments made by this section do not affect the operation of section
105B or 107B of the Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act
2009 in relation to a proposal under that section made before the coming into
force of this section.

###### Regulations applying to combined authorities

68

68.1

Section 117 of the Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act
2009 (orders under Part 6) is amended as follows.

68.2

In the heading, after “Orders” insert  “and regulations” .

68.3

In subsection (1), after “Orders” insert  “and regulations” .

68.4

In subsection (1A), after “An order” insert  “or regulations” .

68.5

After subsection (3) insert—

68.5.3A

A statutory instrument that contains (whether alone or with any other
provisions) regulations under section 104C(1), 104C(4), or  107K (1)  may not
be made unless a draft of the instrument containing the regulations has been
laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament.

68.5.3B

A statutory instrument that—

68.5.3B.a

contains regulations under section  109A (8)  or  112A (10) , and

68.5.3B.b

is not by virtue of subsection (3A) subject to a requirement that a draft of
the instrument be laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each House of
Parliament,

is subject to annulment by resolution of either House of Parliament.

68.6

In subsection (4), after “Part” insert  “or of regulations under section  104C
(1)  or  (4) ” .

###### Combined authorities and combined county authorities: power to borrow

69

In section 23 of the Local Government Act 2003 (meaning of “ local authority ”
for the purposes of Part 1), after subsection (10) insert—

69.10A

If a draft of a statutory instrument containing regulations under subsection
(5) or  (8A)  would, apart from this subsection, be treated for the purposes
of the standing orders of either House of Parliament as a hybrid instrument,
it is to proceed in that House as if it were not such an instrument.

###### Payment of allowances to committee members

70

70.1

In Schedule 5A to the Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction
Act 2009 (combined authorities: overview and scrutiny committees and audit
committees)—

70.1.a

in paragraph 3(2) (power by order to make further provision about overview and
scrutiny committees), after paragraph (a) insert—

70.1.a.aa

about the payment of allowances to members of such a committee who are members
of a constituent council;

, and

70.1.b

in paragraph 4(3) (power by order to make further provision about audit
committees), after paragraph (b) insert—

70.1.b.c

the payment of allowances to members of the committee who are members of a
constituent council (within the meaning of paragraph 3).

70.2

In Schedule 5C to that Act (mayors for combined authority areas: police and
crime commissioner functions), after paragraph 5 insert—

70.2.5A

The Secretary of State may by order make provision about the payment of
allowances to members of a police and crime panel established by virtue of an
order under paragraph 4 who are members of a constituent council (within the
meaning of paragraph 3 of Schedule 5A).

##### Local authority governance

###### Timing for changes in governance arrangements

71

71.1

The Local Government Act 2000 is amended as follows.

71.2

In section 9KC (resolution of local authority)—

71.2.a

in subsection (4)—

71.2.a.i

the words from “Resolution B is approved” to the end of the subsection become
paragraph (a), and

71.2.a.ii

at the end of that paragraph insert

, or

71.2.a.ii.b

subsection  (4A)  applies and Resolution B is passed in accordance with
subsection  (4E) .

, and

71.2.b

after subsection (4) insert—

71.2.b.4A

This subsection applies where Resolution B—

71.2.b.4A.a

makes a change in governance arrangements—

71.2.b.4A.a.i

under section 9K for the local authority to start to operate executive
arrangements, or

71.2.b.4A.a.ii

under section 9KA for the local authority to vary its executive arrangements
so that they provide for a mayor and cabinet executive, and

71.2.b.4A.b

has not been approved in a referendum held in accordance with this Chapter.

71.2.b.4B

Where subsection  (4A)  applies, the local authority may submit a proposal to
the Secretary of State for consent to pass Resolution B before the end of the
period of 5 years beginning with the date Resolution A is passed.

71.2.b.4C

A proposal must specify—

71.2.b.4C.a

the change in governance arrangements to be made by Resolution B, and

71.2.b.4C.b

how the change is likely to improve the economic, social and environmental
well-being of some or all of the people who live or work in the area of the
local authority.

71.2.b.4D

The Secretary of State may consent to a proposal only if the Secretary of
State considers that the change in governance arrangements is likely to
improve the economic, social and environmental well-being of some or all of
the people who live or work in the area of the local authority.

71.2.b.4E

If the Secretary of State consents to a proposal, the local authority may pass
Resolution B—

71.2.b.4E.a

before the end of the 5 year period beginning with the date Resolution A is
passed, but

71.2.b.4E.b

not later than the end of the 3 year period beginning with the date consent is
given.

71.2.b.4F

The Secretary of State may by regulations make further provision about—

71.2.b.4F.a

the matters which must be addressed by a proposal under this section, and

71.2.b.4F.b

how a proposal is to be considered by the Secretary of State.

71.3

In section 9MF (further provision with respect to referendums)—

71.3.a

in subsection (1)—

71.3.a.i

the words from “subsection (2)” to the end of the subsection become paragraph
(a), and

71.3.a.ii

at the end of that paragraph insert

, or

71.3.a.ii.b

subsection  (3A)  applies and Referendum B is held in accordance with
subsection  (3E) .

, and

71.3.b

after subsection (3) insert—

71.3.b.3A

This subsection applies if Referendum B is held under section 9M to approve a
change in governance arrangements—

71.3.b.3A.a

under section 9K for the local authority to start to operate executive
arrangements, or

71.3.b.3A.b

under section 9KA for the local authority to vary its executive arrangements
so that they provide for a mayor and cabinet executive.

71.3.b.3B

Where subsection  (3A)  applies, the local authority may submit a proposal to
the Secretary of State for consent to hold Referendum B within the period of
10 years beginning with the date of Referendum A.

71.3.b.3C

A proposal must specify—

71.3.b.3C.a

the change in governance arrangements that is subject to approval in
Referendum B, and

71.3.b.3C.b

how the change is likely to improve the economic, social and environmental
well-being of some or all of the people who live or work in the area of the
local authority.

71.3.b.3D

The Secretary of State may consent to a proposal only if the Secretary of
State considers that the change in governance arrangements is likely to
improve the economic, social and environmental well-being of some or all of
the people who live or work in the area of the local authority.

71.3.b.3E

If the Secretary of State consents to a proposal, the local authority may hold
Referendum B—

71.3.b.3E.a

within the 10 year period beginning with the date of Referendum A, but

71.3.b.3E.b

not later than the end of the 3 year period beginning with the date consent is
given.

71.3.b.3F

The Secretary of State may by regulations make further provision about—

71.3.b.3F.a

the matters which must be addressed by a proposal under this section, and

71.3.b.3F.b

how a proposal is to be considered by the Secretary of State.

###### Transfer of functions: changes in governance arrangements

72

72.1

The Local Government Act 2000 is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)
to  (5) .

72.2

In section 9KC (resolution of local authority), after subsection (5) insert—

72.2.6

See sections  9NC  and  9ND  (transfer of functions: changes in governance
arrangements) for further provision about when a resolution under this section
may be passed.

72.3

In section 9MB (requirement to hold and give effect to referendum)—

72.3.a

in subsection (4)—

72.3.a.i

the words from “within the period” to the end of the subsection become
paragraph (a), and

72.3.a.ii

at the end of that paragraph insert

, or

72.3.a.ii.b

where  paragraph (b)  of section  9ND (7)  (transfer of functions: changes in
governance arrangements) applies, within the period of 28 days beginning with
the day when the regulations mentioned in that subsection are amended or
revoked.

, and

72.3.b

after subsection (5) insert—

72.3.b.6

See section  9ND  for further provision about referendums under section 9M.

72.4

In section 9MF (further provision with respect to referendums), after
subsection (6) insert—

72.4.7

See section  9ND  (transfer of functions: changes in governance arrangements)
for further provision about referendums under section 9MC.

72.5

After section 9NB insert—

############ Transfer of functions: changes in governance arrangements

############# Transfer of functions: changes in governance arrangements not subject to a referendum

72.5.9NC

72.5.9NC.1

This section applies where—

72.5.9NC.1.a

the Secretary of State has made regulations under section 16 of the Cities and
Local Government Devolution Act 2016 (power to transfer etc public authority
functions to certain local authorities) that provide for a function to be
exercisable by a local authority,

72.5.9NC.1.b

the local authority proposes to pass a resolution under section 9KC to make a
relevant change in governance arrangements, and

72.5.9NC.1.c

that change is not—

72.5.9NC.1.c.i

subject to approval in a referendum under section 9M, or

72.5.9NC.1.c.ii

required to be implemented by the local authority in accordance with section
9MF(4) (referendums under sections 9MC to 9ME).

72.5.9NC.2

The local authority may not pass the resolution unless the local authority
complies with this section.

72.5.9NC.3

The local authority must notify the Secretary of State of the proposed change
in governance arrangements.

72.5.9NC.4

Where the Secretary of State receives such a notification, the Secretary of
State must consider whether, as a result of the proposed change in governance
arrangements, the regulations mentioned in subsection  (1) (a)  should be
amended or revoked (see section 17(1) of the Cities and Local Government
Devolution Act 2016).

72.5.9NC.5

The Secretary of State must notify the local authority of the decision under
subsection  (4) .

72.5.9NC.6

If the Secretary of State considers that the regulations should be amended or
revoked, the local authority may not pass the resolution until the regulations
have been so amended or revoked.

72.5.9NC.7

If the Secretary of State considers that the regulations should not be amended
or revoked, the local authority may pass the resolution.

72.5.9NC.8

In this section—

      “ function ” has the same meaning as in section 16 of the Cities and
Local Government Devolution Act 2016;           “ relevant change in
governance arrangements ” means—         a change under section 9K for the
local authority to cease to operate executive arrangements, or           a
change under section 9KA for the local authority to vary its executive
arrangements so that they provide for a leader and cabinet executive.

72.5.9NC.9

This section is subject to section 9KC(3) and (4) (timing of change in
governance arrangements).

############# Transfer of functions: changes in governance arrangements subject to a referendum

72.5.9ND

72.5.9ND.1

This section applies where—

72.5.9ND.1.a

the Secretary of State has made regulations under section 16 of the Cities and
Local Government Devolution Act 2016 (power to transfer etc public authority
functions to certain local authorities) that provide for a function to be
exercisable by a local authority,

72.5.9ND.1.b

the local authority proposes to pass a resolution under section 9KC to make a
relevant change in governance arrangements, and

72.5.9ND.1.c

that change is subject to approval in a referendum under section 9M.

72.5.9ND.2

This section also applies where—

72.5.9ND.2.a

the Secretary of State has made regulations under section 16 of the Cities and
Local Government Devolution Act 2016 that provide for a function to be
exercisable by a local authority, and

72.5.9ND.2.b

the local authority is required by regulations under section 9MC (referendum
following petition) to hold a referendum on whether the authority should make
a relevant change in governance arrangements.

72.5.9ND.3

The local authority may not—

72.5.9ND.3.a

hold the referendum mentioned in subsection  (1) (c)  or  (2) (b) , or

72.5.9ND.3.b

pass a resolution which makes the proposed change in governance arrangements,

unless the local authority complies with this section.

72.5.9ND.4

The local authority must notify the Secretary of State of the proposed change
in governance arrangements.

72.5.9ND.5

Where the Secretary of State receives such a notification, the Secretary of
State must consider whether, as a result of the proposed change in governance
arrangements, the regulations mentioned in subsection  (1) (a)  or  (2) (a)
should be amended or revoked (see section 17(1) of the Cities and Local
Government Devolution Act 2016).

72.5.9ND.6

The Secretary of State must notify the local authority of the decision under
subsection  (5) .

72.5.9ND.7

If the Secretary of State considers that the regulations should be amended or
revoked—

72.5.9ND.7.a

the local authority may hold the referendum mentioned in subsection  (1) (c)
or  (2) (b) , but

72.5.9ND.7.b

if the result of the referendum is to approve the proposals, the local
authority may not pass a resolution which makes the proposed change in
governance arrangements until the regulations have been so amended or revoked.

72.5.9ND.8

If the Secretary of State considers that the regulations should not be amended
or revoked, the local authority may hold the referendum mentioned in
subsection  (1) (c)  or  (2) (b)  and (if the result of the referendum is to
approve the proposals) pass the resolution.

72.5.9ND.9

In this section “ function ” and “ relevant change in governance arrangements
” have the same meaning as in section  9NC .

72.5.9ND.10

This section is subject to sections 9KC(3) and (4), 9MB and 9MF (timing of
change in governance arrangements etc).

72.6

In section 17 of the Cities and Local Government Devolution Act 2016 (section
16: procedure etc)—

72.6.a

in subsection (1)—

72.6.a.i

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (a), and

72.6.a.ii

after paragraph (b) insert

, and

72.6.a.ii.c

where subsection  (4A)  applies to the regulations, the Secretary of State has
had regard to the matters in subsection  (4B) .

, and

72.6.b

after subsection (4) insert—

72.6.b.4A

This subsection applies to regulations under section 16 that—

72.6.b.4A.a

revoke or otherwise amend previous regulations under that section, and

72.6.b.4A.b

are made in response to a notification from a local authority under section
9NC (3)  or  9ND (4)  of the Local Government Act 2000 (transfer of functions:
changes in governance arrangements) of a proposed change in governance
arrangements.

72.6.b.4B

The matters mentioned in subsection (1) (c)  are—

72.6.b.4B.a

the circumstances of the area of the local authority, and

72.6.b.4B.b

the likely impact of the change in governance arrangements on—

72.6.b.4B.b.i

the economic, social and environmental well-being of some or all of the people
who live or work in the area of the local authority, and

72.6.b.4B.b.ii

the accountability and decision-making of the local authority.

###### Power to transfer etc public authority functions to certain local authorities

73

In section 17 of the Cities and Local Government Devolution Act 2016
(procedure for making regulations under section 16)—

73.a

in subsection (1)(b), for “the exercise of statutory functions” substitute
“the economic, social and environmental well-being of some or all of the
people who live or work” , and

73.b

before subsection (5) insert—

73.b.4C

The requirement in subsection (1)(b) does not apply to the making of
regulations under section 16 where subsection (4A) applies to those
regulations.

##### Police and crime commissioners and the Mayor’s Office for Policing and Crime

###### Participation of police and crime commissioners at certain local authority committees

74

In section 102(9) of the Local Government Act 1972 (appointment of
committees), for “to which the commissioner is appointed in accordance with
this section”, substitute  “described in subsection (6)” .

###### Disposal of land

75

In section 123 of the Local Government Act 1972 (disposal of land by principal
councils), after subsection (2B) insert—

75.2C

Police and crime commissioners and the Mayor’s Office for Policing and Crime
are to be treated as principal councils for the purposes of this section.

##### Alternative mayoral titles

###### Combined authorities: alternative mayoral titles

76

After section 107G of the Local Democracy, Economic Development and
Construction Act 2009 insert—

########## Alternative mayoral titles: new mayoral combined authorities

76.107H

76.107H.1

This section applies to a mayoral combined authority where the order made
under section 107A (power to provide for election of mayor) in relation to the
authority comes into force on or after the date on which this section comes
into force.

76.107H.2

At the first meeting of the authority after the order made under section 107A
comes into force, the authority must, by a resolution in accordance with
subsection  (4) —

76.107H.2.a

provide that the mayor for the area of the authority is to be known by the
title of mayor, or

76.107H.2.b

change the title by which the mayor for the area of the authority is to be
known to an alternative title mentioned in subsection  (3) .

76.107H.3

The alternative titles are—

76.107H.3.a

county commissioner;

76.107H.3.b

county governor;

76.107H.3.c

elected leader;

76.107H.3.d

governor;

76.107H.3.e

a title that the authority considers more appropriate than the alternative
titles mentioned in paragraphs  (a)  to  (d) , having regard to the title of
other public office holders in the area of the authority.

76.107H.4

The following requirements must be met in relation to the resolution mentioned
in subsection  (2) —

76.107H.4.a

particulars of the resolution must be included in the notice of the meeting,

76.107H.4.b

where the resolution includes a proposed alternative title mentioned in
subsection  (3) (e) , the resolution must specify why the authority considers
that the title is more appropriate than the other alternative titles mentioned
in subsection  (3) , and

76.107H.4.c

the resolution must be passed at the meeting by a simple majority of the
members of the authority who vote on it.

76.107H.5

Subsections  (6)  and  (7)  apply where under this section a mayoral combined
authority changes the title by which the mayor for the area of the authority
is to be known to an alternative title.

76.107H.6

The authority must—

76.107H.6.a

send notice of the change to the Secretary of State,

76.107H.6.b

publish the notice in the area of the authority in such manner as the
authority considers appropriate, and

76.107H.6.c

publish the notice in such other manner as the Secretary of State may direct.

76.107H.7

Where this subsection applies—

76.107H.7.a

a reference in any enactment (whenever passed or made) to the mayor for the
area of the authority is, unless the context otherwise requires, to be read as
a reference to the alternative title by which the mayor is to be known, and

76.107H.7.b

references to mayor, mayoral (except in the expression “ mayoral combined
authority ”) and deputy mayor are to be construed accordingly.

76.107H.8

A change of title under this section does not affect the rights or obligations
of any person or render defective any legal proceedings; and any legal
proceedings may be commenced or continued as if there had been no change of
title.

76.107H.9

In this section a reference to a member of a combined authority does not
include a non-constituent member.

76.107H.10

In this section “enactment”—

76.107H.10.a

includes an enactment comprised in subordinate legislation within the meaning
of the Interpretation Act 1978, but

76.107H.10.b

does not include this section or sections  107I  and  107J .

########## Alternative mayoral titles: existing mayoral combined authorities

76.107I

76.107I.1

This section applies to a mayoral combined authority where the order made
under section 107A (power to provide for election of mayor) in relation to the
authority comes into force before the date on which this section comes into
force.

76.107I.2

The authority may, by a resolution in accordance with subsection  (3) , change
the title by which the mayor for the area of the authority is to be known to
one of the following alternative titles—

76.107I.2.a

county commissioner;

76.107I.2.b

county governor;

76.107I.2.c

elected leader;

76.107I.2.d

governor;

76.107I.2.e

a title that the authority considers more appropriate than the alternative
titles mentioned in paragraphs  (a)  to  (d) , having regard to the title of
other public office holders in the area of the authority.

76.107I.3

The following requirements must be met in relation to the resolution—

76.107I.3.a

the resolution must be considered at the first meeting of the authority held
after a qualifying election for the return of the mayor,

76.107I.3.b

particulars of the resolution must be included in the notice of the meeting,

76.107I.3.c

where the resolution includes a proposed alternative title mentioned in
subsection  (2) (e) , the resolution must specify why the authority considers
that the title is more appropriate than the other alternative titles mentioned
in subsection  (2) , and

76.107I.3.d

the resolution must be passed at the meeting by a simple majority of the
members of the authority who vote on it.

76.107I.4

Subsections  (5)  and  (6)  apply where under this section a mayoral combined
authority changes the title by which the mayor for the area of the authority
is to be known to an alternative title.

76.107I.5

The authority must—

76.107I.5.a

send notice of the change to the Secretary of State,

76.107I.5.b

publish the notice in the area of the authority in such manner as the
authority considers appropriate, and

76.107I.5.c

publish the notice in such other manner as the Secretary of State may direct.

76.107I.6

Where this subsection applies—

76.107I.6.a

a reference in any enactment (whenever passed or made) to the mayor for the
area of the authority is, unless the context otherwise requires, to be read as
a reference to the alternative title by which the mayor is to be known, and

76.107I.6.b

references to mayor, mayoral (except in the expression “ mayoral combined
authority ”) and deputy mayor are to be construed accordingly.

76.107I.7

A change of title under this section does not affect the rights or obligations
of any person or render defective any legal proceedings; and any legal
proceedings may be commenced or continued as if there had been no change of
title.

76.107I.8

In this section a reference to a member of a combined authority does not
include a non-constituent member.

76.107I.9

In this section—

      “ enactment ” has the same meaning as in section  107H ;           “
qualifying election ” means an election for the return of the mayor, other
than—         the first election for the return of the mayor, and           an
election caused by a vacancy in the office of the mayor occurring before
expiry of the mayor’s term of office.

76.107I.10

This section is subject to section  107J .

########## Alternative mayoral titles: further changes

76.107J

76.107J.1

This section applies where a mayoral combined authority has—

76.107J.1.a

by a resolution under section  107H  or  107I  or by a previous resolution
under this section, changed the title by which the mayor for the area of the
authority is to be known to an alternative title,

76.107J.1.b

by a resolution under section  107H , provided that the mayor for the area of
the authority is to be known by the title of mayor, or

76.107J.1.c

by a previous resolution under this section, provided that the mayor for the
area of the authority is no longer to be known by an alternative title.

76.107J.2

The authority may, by a resolution in accordance with subsection  (4) —

76.107J.2.a

in a subsection  (1) (a)  case—

76.107J.2.a.i

provide that the mayor is no longer to be known by the alternative title, or

76.107J.2.a.ii

change the title by which the mayor is to be known to an alternative title
mentioned in subsection  (3) ;

76.107J.2.b

in a subsection  (1) (b)  or  (c)  case, change the title by which the mayor
is to be known to an alternative title mentioned in subsection  (3) .

76.107J.3

The alternative titles are—

76.107J.3.a

county commissioner;

76.107J.3.b

county governor;

76.107J.3.c

elected leader;

76.107J.3.d

governor;

76.107J.3.e

a title that the authority considers more appropriate than the alternative
titles mentioned in paragraphs  (a)  to  (d) , having regard to the title of
other public office holders in the area of the authority.

76.107J.4

The following requirements must be met in relation to the resolution mentioned
in subsection  (2) —

76.107J.4.a

the resolution must be considered at a relevant meeting of the authority,

76.107J.4.b

particulars of the resolution must be included in the notice of the meeting,

76.107J.4.c

where the resolution includes a proposed alternative title mentioned in
subsection  (3) (e) , the resolution must specify why the authority considers
that the title is more appropriate than the other alternative titles mentioned
in subsection  (3) , and

76.107J.4.d

the resolution must be passed at the meeting by a simple majority of the
members of the authority who vote on it.

76.107J.5

In subsection  (4) (a)  “ relevant meeting ” means the first meeting of the
authority held after a qualifying election for the return of the mayor,
provided that the election is at least the third qualifying election since the
resolution mentioned in subsection  (1)  was passed.

76.107J.6

Where under this section an authority provides that the mayor for the area of
the authority is no longer to be known by an alternative title, the authority
must—

76.107J.6.a

send notice of the change to the Secretary of State,

76.107J.6.b

publish the notice in the area of the authority in such manner as the
authority considers appropriate, and

76.107J.6.c

publish the notice in such other manner as the Secretary of State may direct.

76.107J.7

Subsections  (8)  and  (9)  apply where under this section an authority
changes the title by which the mayor for the area of the authority is to be
known to an alternative title.

76.107J.8

The authority must—

76.107J.8.a

send notice of the change to the Secretary of State,

76.107J.8.b

publish the notice in the area of the authority in such manner as the
authority considers appropriate, and

76.107J.8.c

publish the notice in such other manner as the Secretary of State may direct.

76.107J.9

Where this subsection applies—

76.107J.9.a

a reference in any enactment (whenever passed or made) to the mayor for the
area of the authority is, unless the context otherwise requires, to be read as
a reference to the alternative title by which the mayor is to be known, and

76.107J.9.b

references to mayor, mayoral (except in the expression “ mayoral combined
authority ”) and deputy mayor are to be construed accordingly.

76.107J.10

A change of title under this section does not affect the rights or obligations
of any person, or render defective any legal proceedings; and any legal
proceedings may be commenced or continued as if there had been no change of
title.

76.107J.11

Where a combined authority to which section  107H  applies does not pass a
resolution as required by subsection  (2)  of that section, the authority is
to be treated for the purposes of this section as if, at the meeting mentioned
in that subsection, it had passed the resolution mentioned in section  107H
(2) (a)  (providing that the mayor is to be known by the title of mayor).

76.107J.12

In this section a reference to a member of a combined authority does not
include a non-constituent member.

76.107J.13

In this section—

      “ enactment ” has the same meaning as in section  107H ;           “
qualifying election ” has the same meaning as in section  107I .

########## Power to amend list of alternative titles

76.107K

76.107K.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend section  107H (3) ,  107I (2)
or  107J (3)  to add, modify or remove a reference to an alternative title or
a description of an alternative title.

76.107K.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may make incidental, supplementary,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision, including
provision which makes consequential amendments to section  107H ,  107I  or
107J .

###### Local authorities in England: alternative mayoral titles

77

77.1

The Local Government Act 2000 is amended as follows.

77.2

After section 9HE insert—

############ Alternative mayoral titles

77.2.9HF

77.2.9HF.1

A local authority within subsection  (8)  may, by a resolution in accordance
with subsection  (2) , change the title by which the elected mayor of the
authority is to be known to one of the following alternative titles—

77.2.9HF.1.a

county commissioner;

77.2.9HF.1.b

county governor;

77.2.9HF.1.c

elected leader;

77.2.9HF.1.d

governor;

77.2.9HF.1.e

a title that the authority considers more appropriate than the alternative
titles mentioned in paragraphs  (a)  to  (d) , having regard to the title of
other public office holders in the area of the authority.

77.2.9HF.2

The following requirements must be met in relation to the resolution—

77.2.9HF.2.a

the resolution must be considered at a relevant meeting of the authority,

77.2.9HF.2.b

particulars of the resolution must be included in the notice of the meeting,

77.2.9HF.2.c

where the resolution includes a proposed alternative title mentioned in
subsection  (1) (e) , the resolution must specify why the authority considers
that the title is more appropriate than the other alternative titles mentioned
in subsection  (1) , and

77.2.9HF.2.d

the resolution must be passed at the meeting by a simple majority of the
members of the authority who vote on it.

77.2.9HF.3

In subsection  (2) (a)  “ relevant meeting ” means—

77.2.9HF.3.a

in the case of a local authority within subsection  (8) (a) , the first
meeting of the authority held after a qualifying election for the return of
the elected mayor,

77.2.9HF.3.b

in the case of a local authority within subsection  (8) (b) , the meeting of
the authority at which the resolution under section 9KC (resolution of local
authority) is passed, and

77.2.9HF.3.c

in the case of a local authority within subsection  (8) (c) , the first
meeting of the authority held after the referendum mentioned in section 9N is
held.

77.2.9HF.4

Subsections  (5)  and  (6)  apply where under this section a local authority
changes the title by which the elected mayor of the authority is to be known
to an alternative title.

77.2.9HF.5

The authority must—

77.2.9HF.5.a

send notice of the change to the Secretary of State,

77.2.9HF.5.b

publish the notice in the area of the authority in such manner as the
authority considers appropriate, and

77.2.9HF.5.c

publish the notice in such other manner as the Secretary of State may direct.

77.2.9HF.6

Where this subsection applies—

77.2.9HF.6.a

a reference in any enactment (whenever passed or made) to the elected mayor of
the authority is, unless the context otherwise requires, to be read as a
reference to the alternative title by which the elected mayor is to be known,
and

77.2.9HF.6.b

references to mayor, mayoral and deputy mayor are to be construed accordingly.

77.2.9HF.7

A change of title under this section does not affect the rights or obligations
of any person or render defective any legal proceedings; and any legal
proceedings may be commenced or continued as if there had been no change of
title.

77.2.9HF.8

A local authority is within this subsection if—

77.2.9HF.8.a

it operates a mayor and cabinet executive,

77.2.9HF.8.b

it passes a resolution in accordance with section 9KC (resolution of local
authority) to make a change in governance arrangements which provides for the
authority to operate a mayor and cabinet executive, or

77.2.9HF.8.c

it holds a referendum by virtue of an order under section 9N (referendum on
change to mayor and cabinet executive) and the proposal for the authority to
operate a mayor and cabinet executive is approved in that referendum.

77.2.9HF.9

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend subsection  (1)  to add,
modify or remove a reference to an alternative title or a description of an
alternative title.

77.2.9HF.10

In this section—

      “ enactment ”—         includes an enactment comprised in subordinate
legislation within the meaning of the Interpretation Act 1978, but
does not include this section or section  9HG ;                 “ qualifying
election ” means an election for the return of the elected mayor, other than—
the first election for the return of the elected mayor, and           an
election caused by a vacancy in the office of the elected mayor occurring
before expiry of the elected mayor’s term of office.

77.2.9HF.11

This section is subject to section  9HG .

############ Alternative mayoral titles: further changes

77.2.9HG

77.2.9HG.1

This section applies where a local authority has—

77.2.9HG.1.a

by a resolution under section  9HF  or by a previous resolution under this
section, changed the title by which the elected mayor of the authority is to
be known to an alternative title, or

77.2.9HG.1.b

by a previous resolution under this section, provided that the elected mayor
of the authority is no longer to be known by an alternative title.

77.2.9HG.2

The authority may, by a resolution in accordance with subsection  (4) —

77.2.9HG.2.a

in a subsection  (1) (a)  case—

77.2.9HG.2.a.i

provide that the elected mayor is no longer to be known by the alternative
title, or

77.2.9HG.2.a.ii

change the title by which the elected mayor is to be known to an alternative
title mentioned in subsection  (3) ;

77.2.9HG.2.b

in a subsection  (1) (b)  case, change the title by which the elected mayor is
to be known to an alternative title mentioned in subsection  (3) .

77.2.9HG.3

The alternative titles are—

77.2.9HG.3.a

county commissioner;

77.2.9HG.3.b

county governor;

77.2.9HG.3.c

elected leader;

77.2.9HG.3.d

governor;

77.2.9HG.3.e

a title that the authority considers more appropriate than the alternative
titles mentioned in paragraphs  (a)  to  (d) , having regard to the title of
other public office holders in the area of the authority.

77.2.9HG.4

The following requirements must be met in relation to the resolution mentioned
in subsection  (2) —

77.2.9HG.4.a

the resolution must be considered at a relevant meeting of the authority,

77.2.9HG.4.b

particulars of the resolution must be included in the notice of the meeting,

77.2.9HG.4.c

where the resolution includes a proposed alternative title mentioned in
subsection  (3) (e) , the resolution must specify why the authority considers
that the title is more appropriate than the other alternative titles mentioned
in subsection  (3) , and

77.2.9HG.4.d

the resolution must be passed at the meeting by a simple majority of the
members of the authority who vote on it.

77.2.9HG.5

In subsection  (4) (a)  “ relevant meeting ” means the first meeting of the
authority held after a qualifying election for the return of the elected
mayor, provided that the election is at least the third qualifying election
since the resolution mentioned in subsection  (1)  was passed.

77.2.9HG.6

Where under this section a local authority provides that the elected mayor of
the authority is no longer to be known by an alternative title, the authority
must—

77.2.9HG.6.a

send notice of the change to the Secretary of State,

77.2.9HG.6.b

publish the notice in the area of the authority in such manner as the
authority considers appropriate, and

77.2.9HG.6.c

publish the notice in such other manner as the Secretary of State may direct.

77.2.9HG.7

Subsections  (8)  and  (9)  apply where under this section a local authority
changes the title by which the elected mayor of the authority is to be known
to an alternative title.

77.2.9HG.8

The authority must—

77.2.9HG.8.a

send notice of the change to the Secretary of State,

77.2.9HG.8.b

publish the notice in the area of the authority in such manner as the
authority considers appropriate, and

77.2.9HG.8.c

publish the notice in such other manner as the Secretary of State may direct.

77.2.9HG.9

Where this subsection applies—

77.2.9HG.9.a

a reference in any enactment (whenever passed or made) to the elected mayor of
the authority is, unless the context otherwise requires, to be read as a
reference to the alternative title by which the elected mayor is to be known,
and

77.2.9HG.9.b

references to mayor, mayoral and deputy mayor are to be construed accordingly.

77.2.9HG.10

A change of title under this section does not affect the rights or obligations
of any person, or render defective any legal proceedings; and any legal
proceedings may be commenced or continued as if there had been no change of
title.

77.2.9HG.11

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend subsection  (3)  to add,
modify or remove a reference to an alternative title or a description of an
alternative title.

77.2.9HG.12

In this section “ enactment ” and “ qualifying election ” have the same
meaning as in section  9HF .

77.3

In section 105(6) (orders and regulations), after “9HE,” insert  “ 9HF (9) ,
9HG (11) ,” .

##### Local government capital finance

###### Capital finance risk management

78

78.1

The Local Government Act 2003 is amended as follows.

78.2

After section 12 (power to invest) insert—

############ Risk management: England

############# Risk-mitigation directions

78.2.12A

78.2.12A.1

The Secretary of State may give one or more risk-mitigation directions to a
local authority in England, for the purpose of reducing or mitigating the
financial risk to the authority, if—

78.2.12A.1.a

a trigger event has occurred in relation to the local authority, and

78.2.12A.1.b

the Secretary of State is satisfied that the direction is, or (as the case may
be) directions are, appropriate and proportionate to the level of that
financial risk.

78.2.12A.2

A “trigger event” occurs if (and when)—

78.2.12A.2.a

a risk threshold is breached by the local authority (see  section 12B );

78.2.12A.2.b

a report is made by the chief finance officer of the local authority under
section 114(3) of the Local Government Finance Act 1988 (report to effect that
authority’s expenditure is likely to exceed available resources); or

78.2.12A.2.c

the Secretary of State—

78.2.12A.2.c.i

gives a direction under section 16(2)(b) (request for expenditure to be, or
not be, treated as capital) in respect of the local authority, or

78.2.12A.2.c.ii

makes a grant to the local authority under an enactment,

for the purpose of preventing circumstances arising that would require such a
report to be made.

78.2.12A.3

The following are “risk-mitigation directions”—

78.2.12A.3.a

a direction that sets limits in relation to the borrowing of money by the
local authority;

78.2.12A.3.b

a direction that requires the local authority to take action specified in the
direction.

78.2.12A.4

A direction under  subsection (3) (a) —

78.2.12A.4.a

may set different limits in relation to different kinds of borrowing;

78.2.12A.4.b

must specify the period for which any limit has effect.

78.2.12A.5

A direction under  subsection (3) (b) —

78.2.12A.5.a

may (amongst other things) require the local authority to take action to
divest itself of a specified asset;

78.2.12A.5.b

must specify the time by which any specified action must be taken.

78.2.12A.6

In deciding whether or not to exercise a power to give a direction under this
section, the Secretary of State must have regard to—

78.2.12A.6.a

the likely impact of the direction on the provision of services to the public
by or on behalf of the local authority;

78.2.12A.6.b

the duty imposed on the local authority by section 3(1) of the Local
Government Act 1999 (best value duty).

78.2.12A.7

In deciding whether or not to exercise a power to give a direction under this
section, the Secretary of State may, in particular, take account of the likely
impact of that decision on the implementation of any central government
policy, project or programme.

78.2.12A.8

The Secretary of State may not give a risk-mitigation direction unless the
Secretary of State—

78.2.12A.8.a

has given the local authority notice of the proposed direction, and of the
right of the local authority to make written representations to the Secretary
of State about it within the period specified in the notice, and

78.2.12A.8.b

has considered any representations made by the local authority to the
Secretary of State within that period.

78.2.12A.9

In this section, “ financial risk ”, in relation to a local authority, means
the risk that the expenditure of the local authority (including expenditure it
proposes to incur) in the current or any future financial year is likely to
exceed, or further exceed, the resources (including sums borrowed) available
to it to meet that expenditure.

78.2.12A.10

This section is subject to  section 12C  (restriction of power to give risk-
mitigation directions).

############# Risk thresholds

78.2.12B

78.2.12B.1

For the purposes of  section 12A (2) (a) , a risk threshold is breached by a
local authority in England if (and when) a capital risk metric for the local
authority breaches the specified threshold for that metric.

78.2.12B.2

Each of the following is a “capital risk metric”—

78.2.12B.2.a

the total of a local authority’s debt (including credit arrangements) as
compared to the financial resources at the disposal of the authority;

78.2.12B.2.b

the proportion of the total of a local authority’s capital assets which is
investments made, or held, wholly or mainly in order to generate financial
return;

78.2.12B.2.c

the proportion of the total of a local authority’s debt (including credit
arrangements) in relation to which the counter-party is not central government
or a local authority;

78.2.12B.2.d

the amount of minimum revenue provision charged by a local authority to a
revenue account for a financial year;

78.2.12B.2.e

any other metric specified by regulations made by the Secretary of State.

78.2.12B.3

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, make further provision—

78.2.12B.3.a

specifying whether the specified threshold for a particular metric is breached
by a failure to reach that threshold or by that threshold being exceeded;

78.2.12B.3.b

about how the metrics specified in, or under,  subsection (2)  are to be
calculated for the purpose of determining whether the specified threshold for
that metric has been breached.

78.2.12B.4

Before making regulations under  subsection (2) (e) , the Secretary of State
must consult all local authorities in England.

78.2.12B.5

In this section—

      “ capital asset ” has the meaning given by section 9;           “
minimum revenue provision ” has the meaning given by regulation 27 of the
Local Authorities (Capital Finance and Accounting)(England) Regulations 2003 (
S.I. 2003/3146 );           “ specified ” means specified, or determined in a
manner specified, in regulations made by the Secretary of State.

78.2.12B.6

Regulations may require a specified threshold to be determined having regard
to guidance issued under section 21(1A) (accounting practices).

############# Restriction of power to give risk-mitigation directions

78.2.12C

78.2.12C.1

If, after the power to give risk-mitigation directions becomes exercisable
under  section 12A (1)  in relation to a local authority—

78.2.12C.1.a

at least 12 months have elapsed since the Secretary of State last became aware
of a trigger event having occurred in relation to the authority,

78.2.12C.1.b

any risk-mitigation direction given to the authority has been complied with or
revoked, and

78.2.12C.1.c

the Secretary of State is satisfied no further risk-mitigation direction is
likely to be required in the foreseeable future for the purpose of reducing or
mitigating the financial risk to the authority,

the Secretary of State must give the local authority a notice to that effect
(“a cessation notice”).

78.2.12C.2

Where a cessation notice is given, the power conferred by  section 12A (1)  is
no longer exercisable, in relation to that authority, by reason of any trigger
event of which the Secretary of State was aware at the time that notice was
given.

78.2.12C.3

In this section “ risk-mitigation direction ”, “ trigger event ” and “
financial risk ” have the same meaning as in  section 12A .

############# Duty to cooperate with independent expert

78.2.12D

78.2.12D.1

This section applies where—

78.2.12D.1.a

a trigger event has occurred in relation to a local authority in England,

78.2.12D.1.b

section 12C (2)  does not apply to prevent the power conferred by  section 12A
(1)  being exercisable, in relation to that authority, by reason of that
event, and

78.2.12D.1.c

the Secretary of State has appointed an independent expert to review the level
of the financial risk to the local authority.

78.2.12D.2

The local authority must, so far as reasonably practicable, co-operate with
the independent expert in any way that the independent expert considers
necessary or expedient for the purposes of the conduct of the review.

78.2.12D.3

In this section—

      “ financial risk ” has the same meaning as in  section 12A ;           “
independent expert ” means a person—         who is independent of the local
authority and the Secretary of State, and           who has relevant
experience or knowledge which is relevant to the matter in question;
“ trigger event ” has the same meaning as in  section 12A .

78.3

In section 2 (control of borrowing), in subsection (1)—

78.3.a

after paragraph (b) insert  “, or” , and

78.3.b

after that paragraph insert—

78.3.b.c

any limit for the time being applicable to it under section 12A.

78.4

In section 5 (temporary borrowing)—

78.4.a

in subsection (1), after “section 4” insert  “or 12A” , and

78.4.b

in subsection (2), after “section 4(2)” insert  “or 12A” .

78.5

In section 8 (control of credit arrangements), in subsection (1)—

78.5.a

after paragraph (b) insert  “, or” , and

78.5.b

after that paragraph insert—

78.5.b.c

any limit for the time being applicable to it under section 12A.

78.6

In section 12 (power to invest), at the end insert—

This is subject to a direction under section 12A (risk-mitigation directions).

78.7

In section 19 (application to parish and community councils), in subsection
(1) for “9 to 13” substitute  “9 to 12, 13” .

78.8

In section 23 (meaning of “ local authority ” in Chapter 3 of Part 1), in
subsection (4), after “1 to 8,” insert  “ 12A  to  12D ,” .

##### Council tax

###### Long-term empty dwellings: England

79

79.1

In section 11B of the Local Government Finance Act 1992 (higher amount for
long-term empty dwellings: England)—

79.1.a

after subsection (1C) insert—

79.1.a.1D

In exercising its functions under this section a billing authority must have
regard to any guidance issued by the Secretary of State.

;

79.1.b

in subsection (8), for “2 years” substitute  “1 year” .

79.2

The amendments made by  subsection (1)  have effect for financial years
beginning on or after 1 April 2024 (and, in relation to the amendment made by
subsection (1) (b) , it does not matter whether the period mentioned in
section 11B(8) of the Local Government Finance Act 1992 begins before  this
section  comes into force).

###### Dwellings occupied periodically: England

80

80.1

The Local Government Finance Act 1992 is amended in accordance with
subsections (2)  and  (3) .

80.2

After section 11B (higher amount for long-term empty dwellings: England)
insert—

############ Higher amount for dwellings occupied periodically: England

80.2.11C

80.2.11C.1

For any financial year, a billing authority in England may by determination
provide in relation to its area, or such part of its area as it may specify in
the determination, that if on any day the conditions mentioned in  subsection
(2)  are satisfied in respect of a dwelling—

80.2.11C.1.a

the discount under section 11(2)(a) does not apply, and

80.2.11C.1.b

the amount of council tax payable in respect of that dwelling and that day is
increased by such percentage of not more than 100 as it may specify in the
determination.

80.2.11C.2

The conditions are—

80.2.11C.2.a

there is no resident of the dwelling, and

80.2.11C.2.b

the dwelling is substantially furnished.

80.2.11C.3

A billing authority’s first determination under this section must be made at
least one year before the beginning of the financial year to which it relates.

80.2.11C.4

In exercising its functions under this section a billing authority must have
regard to any guidance issued by the Secretary of State.

80.2.11C.5

Where a determination under this section has effect in relation to a class of
dwellings—

80.2.11C.5.a

the billing authority may not make a determination under section 11A(3), (4)
or (4A) in relation to that class, and

80.2.11C.5.b

any determination that has been made under section 11A(3), (4) or (4A) ceases
to have effect in relation to that class.

80.2.11C.6

A billing authority may make a determination varying or revoking a
determination under this section for a financial year, but only before the
beginning of the year.

80.2.11C.7

Where a billing authority makes a determination under this section it must
publish a notice of the determination in at least one newspaper circulating in
the area.

80.2.11C.8

The notice must be published before the end of the period of 21 days beginning
with the date of the determination.

80.2.11C.9

The validity of the determination is not affected by a failure to comply with
subsection (7)  or  (8) .

############ Section 11C: regulations

80.2.11D

80.2.11D.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations prescribe one or more classes of
dwelling in relation to which a billing authority may not make a determination
under  section 11C .

80.2.11D.2

A class of dwellings may be prescribed under  subsection (1)  by reference to
such factors as the Secretary of State thinks fit and may, amongst other
factors, be prescribed by reference to—

80.2.11D.2.a

the physical characteristics of, or other matters relating to, dwellings;

80.2.11D.2.b

the circumstances of, or other matters relating to, any person who is liable
to the amount of council tax concerned.

80.2.11D.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations specify a different percentage limit
for the limit which is for the time being specified in  section 11C (1) (b) .

80.2.11D.4

A statutory instrument containing regulations made under  subsection (3)  may
not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been approved by resolution
of the House of Commons.

80.3

In consequence of the amendment made by subsection (2)—

80.3.a

in section 11 (discounts), in subsection (2), after “11B” insert  “, 11C” ;

80.3.b

in section 11A (discounts: special provision for England), in subsection (4C),
at the end insert  “and 11C(5)” ;

80.3.c

in section 13 (reduced amounts), in subsection (3), after “11B” insert  “,
11C” ;

80.3.d

in section 66 (judicial review), in subsection (2)(b), after “11B” insert  “,
11C” ;

80.3.e

in section 67 (functions to be discharged only by authority), in subsection
(2)(a), after “11B insert  “, 11C” ;

80.3.f

in section 113 (orders and regulations), in subsection (3), after “under
section” insert  “11D(3),” ;

80.3.g

in Schedule 2 (administration), in paragraph 4(7), after “: England),” insert
“11C(1)(b) (higher amount for dwellings occupied periodically: England),” .

80.4

A determination for the purposes of section 11C of the Local Government
Finance Act 1992 as inserted by  subsection (2)  may not relate to a financial
year beginning before 1 April 2024 (but this does not affect the requirement
for the determination to be made at least one year before the beginning of the
financial year to which it relates).

##### Street names

###### Alteration of street names: England

81

81.1

In this section “ local authority ” means—

81.1.a

a district council in England;

81.1.b

a county council in England for an area for which there is no district
council;

81.1.c

a London borough council;

81.1.d

the Common Council of the City of London.

81.2

A local authority within  subsection (1) (a)  or  (b)  may, by order, alter
the name of a street, or any part of a street, in its area if the alteration
has the necessary support.

81.3

Where a local authority has altered the name of a street, or any part of a
street, under  subsection (2) , it may cause the altered name to be painted or
otherwise marked on a conspicuous part of any building or other erection.

81.4

Any person who then wilfully, and without the consent of the local authority,
obliterates, defaces, obscures, removes or alters the altered name painted or
otherwise marked under  subsection (3)  is liable to a penalty not exceeding
level 1 on the standard scale.

81.5

A local authority within  subsection (1) (c)  or  (d)  may exercise the power
conferred by section 6(1) of the London Building Acts (Amendment) Act 1939
(assigning of names to streets etc) to make an order altering the name of a
street, or any part of a street, in its area only if the alteration has the
necessary support.

81.6

An alteration has the necessary support for the purposes of this section only
if—

81.6.a

it has sufficient local support, and

81.6.b

where it is an alteration of a specified kind, it has any other support
specified as a pre-condition for alterations of that kind.

81.7

Regulations may provide that sufficient local support, or support of a kind
specified under  subsection (6) (b) , can only be established in the way, or
in one of the alternative ways, specified in the regulations.

81.8

Regulations under  subsection (7)  may (amongst other things)—

81.8.a

make provision enabling a referendum to be held by a local authority, on a
question determined by it in accordance with the regulations, for the purposes
of establishing whether an alteration has sufficient local support, including
provision about the conduct and timing of a referendum and who is entitled to
vote;

81.8.b

provide that, where a local authority holds a referendum in accordance with
regulations made by virtue of  paragraph (a) , the alteration may not be made
unless one or both of the following apply—

81.8.b.i

a specified percentage or number of those entitled to vote in the referendum
exercise that right;

81.8.b.ii

a specified majority of those who vote indicate their support for the
alteration;

81.8.c

provide that, where a local authority has run a process (“the first process”)
for the purposes of this section which failed to establish that an alteration
of the name of a street (or a part of a street) had sufficient local support,
the local authority may not run another such process within a specified period
in respect of—

81.8.c.i

if the first process related to the name of a whole street, an alteration of
the name of the same street or any part of it;

81.8.c.ii

if the first process related to the name of a part of a street (“the original
part”), an alteration of the name of the whole street, of the original part or
of any other part which includes some or all of the original part.

81.9

A local authority must have regard to any guidance published by the Secretary
of State about—

81.9.a

the things to be done before a local authority decides to take steps to
establish if an alteration has the necessary support for the purposes of this
section;

81.9.b

the exercise of other functions conferred on a local authority by or under
this section.

81.10

No local Act operates to enable a local authority within  subsection (1) (a)
or  (b)  to alter the name of a street, or part of a street, in its area.

81.11

In this section—

      “ regulations ” means regulations made by the Secretary of State;
“ specified ” means specified in regulations;           “ street ” has the
meaning given by section 48(1) of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991.

81.12

Schedule 5  contains amendments which are consequential on this section.

##### Other provision

###### Powers of parish councils

82

After section 19 of the Local Government Act 1894 (provisions as to small
parishes), insert—

########## Powers under other enactments

82.19A

82.19A.1

Nothing in this Part affects any powers, duties or liabilities conferred on a
parish council by or under any other enactment (whenever passed or made).

82.19A.2

This section does not apply in relation to community councils (see section
179(4) of the Local Government Act 1972).

###### The Common Council of the City of London: removal of voting restrictions

83

83.1

In section 618 of the Housing Act 1985 (the Common Council of the City of
London), omit subsections (3) and (4).

83.2

In section 224 of the Housing Act 1996 (the Common Council of the City of
London), omit subsections (3) and (4).

### Planning

#### Planning data

##### Power in relation to the processing of planning data

84

84.1

Regulations made by an appropriate authority under this Chapter (“ planning
data regulations ”) may make provision requiring a relevant planning
authority, in processing such of its planning data as is specified or
described in the regulations, to comply with any approved data standards which
are applicable.

84.2

“ Planning data ”, in relation to a relevant planning authority, means any
information which is provided to, or processed by, the authority—

84.2.a

for the purposes of a function under a relevant planning enactment, or

84.2.b

for any other purpose relating to planning or development in England.

84.3

“ Approved data standards ”, in relation to planning data, are such written
standards, containing technical specifications or other requirements in
relation to the data, or in relation to providing or processing the data, as
may be published by an appropriate authority from time to time.

84.4

A devolved authority may only publish approved data standards in relation to
planning data about which the devolved authority acting alone could make
planning data regulations.

##### Power in relation to the provision of planning data

85

85.1

A relevant planning authority may by publishing a notice require a person, or
persons of a particular description, in providing to the authority such
planning data as is specified or described in planning data regulations, to
provide the data—

85.1.a

in any form and manner, or

85.1.b

in a particular form and manner,

which complies with any approved data standards which are applicable.

85.2

A relevant planning authority may not impose a requirement under  subsection
(1) —

85.2.a

on the Crown,

85.2.b

on a court or tribunal, or

85.2.c

in relation to the provision of planning data for the purposes of, or in
contemplation of, legal proceedings before a court or tribunal.

85.3

If a relevant planning authority imposes a requirement under  subsection (1)
on a person, provision in a relevant planning enactment does not apply to the
extent that it requires or permits the person to provide the planning data to
the authority in a form or manner which is inconsistent with the requirement
imposed under  subsection (1) .

85.4

Subsections  (5)  to  (7)  apply if—

85.4.a

in providing planning data to a relevant planning authority, a person fails to
comply with a requirement imposed under  subsection (1) , and

85.4.b

the authority does not consider that the person has a reasonable excuse for
the failure.

85.5

The authority may serve a notice on the person rejecting for such purposes as
may be specified in the notice—

85.5.a

all or any part of the planning data, and

85.5.b

if the authority considers it appropriate to do so, any other information
provided with the planning data or any document in or with which the planning
data is provided.

85.6

Any planning data, other information or document rejected under subsection
(5)  is to be treated as not having been provided to the authority for the
purposes specified in the notice.

85.7

If the planning data, other information or document is subsequently provided
to the authority in a form and manner which complies with the requirement
under subsection  (1) , the authority may treat the planning data, other
information or document as having been provided at the time that it would have
been provided had it not been rejected under subsection  (5) .

85.8

Planning data regulations may include provision about how the powers in this
section are to be exercised, including provision about—

85.8.a

the provision or publication of notices or other documents;

85.8.b

the form and content of notices or other documents (and, for these purposes,
the regulations may confer a discretion on a relevant planning authority);

85.8.c

time limits;

85.8.d

any other procedural matters.

##### Power to require certain planning data to be made publicly available

86

86.1

Planning data regulations may make provision requiring a relevant planning
authority to make such of its planning data as is specified or described in
the regulations available to the public under an approved open licence.

86.2

The power under  subsection (1)  does not include power to require a relevant
planning authority to make planning data available in breach of—

86.2.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the authority, or

86.2.b

any other restriction on making the planning data available (however imposed).

86.3

An “ approved open licence ”, in relation to a planning authority’s planning
data, means a licence—

86.3.a

which sets out terms and conditions under which the planning data may be used
by the public free of charge, and

86.3.b

which is in such form and has such content as is, for the time being,
specified or described in a document published by the Secretary of State.

##### Power to require use of approved planning data software in England

87

87.1

Planning data regulations made by the Secretary of State may make provision
restricting or preventing a relevant planning authority in England from using
or creating, or having any right in relation to, planning data software which—

87.1.a

is specified or described in the regulations for the purposes of this
subsection, but

87.1.b

is not approved in writing by the Secretary of State.

87.2

“ Planning data software ” means software which is capable of being used for
the purposes of enabling or facilitating the provision of planning data to, or
the processing of planning data by, relevant planning authorities.

##### Disclosure of planning data does not infringe copyright in certain cases

88

88.1

A relevant planning authority that makes planning data available to a person
does not, in doing so, infringe copyright if making the data available is
necessary for the purposes of enabling or facilitating—

88.1.a

the development of planning data software which is to be submitted for
approval under  section 87 (1) , or

88.1.b

the upgrade, modification or maintenance of, or the provision of technical
support in respect of, planning data software which is approved under  section
87 (1) .

88.2

The person to whom the planning data is made available does not infringe any
copyright by using it for the purpose mentioned in subsection (1) for which it
is made available.

##### Requirements to consult devolved administrations

89

89.1

The Secretary of State may only make planning data regulations which contain
provision—

89.1.a

within Scottish devolved legislative competence, or

89.1.b

which could be made by the Scottish Ministers,

with the consent of the Scottish Ministers, unless that provision is merely
incidental to, or consequential on, provision that would be outside that
devolved legislative competence.

89.2

The Secretary of State may only make planning data regulations which contain
provision that confers a function on, or modifies or removes a function of,
the Scottish Ministers after consulting the Scottish Ministers, unless—

89.2.a

that provision is contained in regulations which require the consent of the
Scottish Ministers by virtue of subsection (1), or

89.2.b

that provision is merely incidental to, or consequential on, provision that
would be outside Scottish devolved legislative competence.

89.3

Provision is “within Scottish devolved legislative competence” where, if the
provision were included in an Act of the Scottish Parliament, it would be
within the legislative competence of that Parliament.

89.4

The Secretary of State may only make planning data regulations which contain
provision within Welsh devolved legislative competence with the consent of the
Welsh Ministers, unless that provision is merely incidental to, or
consequential on, provision that would be outside that devolved legislative
competence.

89.5

The Secretary of State may only make planning data regulations which contain
provision that could be made by the Welsh Ministers or that confers a function
on, or modifies or removes a function of, the Welsh Ministers or a devolved
Welsh authority after consulting the Welsh Ministers, unless—

89.5.a

that provision is contained in regulations which require the consent of the
Welsh Ministers by virtue of subsection  (4) , or

89.5.b

that provision is merely incidental to, or consequential on, provision that
would be outside Welsh devolved legislative competence.

89.6

“ Devolved Welsh authority ” has the same meaning as in the Government of
Wales Act 2006 (see section 157A of that Act).

89.7

Provision is “within Welsh devolved legislative competence” where, if the
provision were included in an Act of Senedd Cymru, it would be within the
legislative competence of the Senedd (including any provision that could be
made only with the consent of a Minister of the Crown).

89.8

The Secretary of State may only make planning data regulations which contain
provision within Northern Ireland devolved legislative competence with the
consent of the relevant Northern Ireland department, unless that provision is
merely incidental to, or consequential on, provision that would be outside
that devolved legislative competence.

89.9

The Secretary of State may only make planning data regulations which contain
provision that could be made by a Northern Ireland department or that confers
a function on, or modifies or removes a function of, a Northern Ireland
department after consulting the relevant Northern Ireland department, unless—

89.9.a

that provision is contained in regulations which require the consent of the
relevant Northern Ireland department by virtue of subsection  (8) , or

89.9.b

that provision is merely incidental to, or consequential on, provision that
would be outside Northern Ireland devolved legislative competence.

89.10

The “relevant Northern Ireland department” is such Northern Ireland department
as the Secretary of State considers appropriate having regard to the provision
which is to be contained in the regulations concerned.

89.11

Provision is within “Northern Ireland devolved legislative competence” where
the provision—

89.11.a

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly,
if contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

89.11.b

would not, if contained in a Bill for an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State.

89.12

In this section “ Minister of the Crown ” has the same meaning as in the
Ministers of the Crown Act 1975.

##### Planning data regulations made by devolved authorities

90

Schedule 13  contains restrictions on the exercise of the powers under this
Chapter by devolved authorities.

##### Interpretation of Chapter

91

In this Chapter—

      “ appropriate authority ” means—         the Secretary of State,
a devolved authority, or           the Secretary of State acting jointly with
one or more devolved authorities;                 “ approved data standards ”
has the meaning given in  section 84 (3) ;           “ devolved authority ”
means—         the Scottish Ministers,           the Welsh Ministers, or
a Northern Ireland department;                 “ planning data ” has the
meaning given in  section 84 (2) ;           “ planning data regulations ” has
the meaning give in  section 84 (1) ;           “ planning data software ” has
the meaning given in  section 87 (2) ;           “ process ”, in relation to
information, means to perform an operation or set of operations on
information, or on sets of information, such as—         collection,
recording, organisation, structuring or storage,           adaptation or
alteration,           retrieval, consultation or use,           disclosure by
transmission, dissemination or otherwise making available,           alignment
or combination, or           restriction, erasure or destruction;
“ provided ” includes submitted, issued, served, notified and published (and
related expressions are to be construed accordingly);           “ public
authority ” means any person certain of whose functions are of a public
nature;           “ relevant planning authority ” means—         a local
planning authority (within the meaning given in  section 15LH  of PCPA 2004),
a minerals and waste planning authority (within the meaning given in  section
15LH  of PCPA 2004),           a hazardous substances authority (within the
meaning given in the Hazardous Substances Act) in relation to land in England,
a combined authority established under section 103 of the Local Democracy,
Economic Development and Construction Act 2009,           a combined county
authority established under section  9  of this Act,           the Greater
London Authority,           the Mayor of London,           a Mayoral
development corporation in relation to which a decision of the Mayor under any
of subsections (2) to (5) of section 202 of the Localism Act 2011 has effect,
an urban development corporation established, for an area in England, under
section 135 of the Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980,           a
development corporation established, in relation to a site in England, under
section 3 of the New Towns Act 1981,           the Secretary of State when
exercising a function under a relevant planning enactment,           a Panel
or person who, pursuant to a decision of the Secretary of State under section
61(2) of the Planning Act 2008, is to handle an application for an order
granting development consent,           a public authority that has functions
under  Part 6  of this Act, or           any other public authority prescribed
by planning data regulations that has functions relating to—         planning
or development in England, or           nationally significant infrastructure
projects (within the meaning given in the Planning Act 2008);
“ relevant planning enactment ” means any enactment comprised in or made
under—         the Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980, so far as
relating to planning or development in England,           the New Towns Act
1981, so far as relating to planning or development in England,           TCPA
1990,           the Listed Buildings Act,           the Hazardous Substances
Act,           the Planning (Consequential Provisions) Act 1990,
Part 8 of GLAA 1999,           PCPA 2004,           the Planning Act 2008,
the Localism Act 2011, so far as relating to planning or development in
England,           this Part or Part  4  or  6  of this Act, or           any
other enactment prescribed by planning data regulations to the extent that it
confers functions on a public authority relating to—         planning or
development in England, or           nationally significant infrastructure
projects (within the meaning given in the Planning Act 2008).

#### Development plans etc

##### Development plans and national policy

###### Development plans: content

92

92.1

Section 38 of PCPA 2004 (development plan) is amended as follows.

92.2

In subsection (1), for “(2)” substitute  “(2A)” .

92.3

For subsections (2) and (3) substitute—

92.3.2A

For the purposes of any area in England the development plan is—

92.3.2A.a

each spatial development strategy that is operative in relation to that area,

92.3.2A.b

each local plan which has effect in relation to that area,

92.3.2A.c

each minerals and waste plan which has effect in relation to that area,

92.3.2A.d

each supplementary plan which has effect in relation to that area,

92.3.2A.e

each neighbourhood development plan which has been made in relation to that
area, and

92.3.2A.f

each policies map for that area.

92.4

For subsection (9) substitute—

92.4.9A

In subsection  (2A) —

92.4.9A.a

“ spatial development strategy ”, “ local plan ”, “ minerals and waste plan ”
and “ supplementary plan ” have the same meaning as in Part 2 (see, in
particular, section  15LH ), and

92.4.9A.b

policies map must be construed in accordance with  section 15LD .

###### Role of development plan and national policy in England

93

93.1

Section 38 of PCPA 2004 (development plan) is amended as follows.

93.2

After subsection (5) insert—

93.2.5A

For the purposes of any area in England, subsections  (5B)  and  (5C)  apply
if, for the purposes of any determination to be made under the planning Acts,
regard is to be had to—

93.2.5A.a

the development plan, and

93.2.5A.b

any national development management policies.

93.2.5B

Subject to subsections (5) and  (5C) , the determination must be made in
accordance with the development plan and any national development management
policies, taken together, unless material considerations strongly indicate
otherwise.

93.2.5C

If to any extent the development plan conflicts with a national development
management policy, the conflict must be resolved in favour of the national
development management policy.

93.3

In subsection (6), for “If” substitute  “For the purposes of any area in
Wales, if” .

93.4

After  subsection (9A)  (inserted by  section 92 (4)  of this Act) insert—

93.4.9B

National development management policy must be construed in accordance with
section 38ZA .

93.5

Schedule 6  amends various Acts relating to planning so that they provide
that, in making a determination, regard is to be had to the development plan
and any national development management policies.

###### National development management policies: meaning

94

After section 38 of PCPA 2004 insert—

########## Meaning of “national development management policy”

94.38ZA

94.38ZA.1

A “national development management policy” is a policy (however expressed) of
the Secretary of State in relation to the development or use of land in
England, or any part of England, which the Secretary of State by direction
designates as a national development management policy.

94.38ZA.2

The Secretary of State may—

94.38ZA.2.a

revoke a direction under  subsection (1) ;

94.38ZA.2.b

modify a national development management policy.

94.38ZA.3

The Secretary of State must have regard to the need to mitigate, and adapt to,
climate change—

94.38ZA.3.a

in preparing a policy which is to be designated as a national development
management policy, or

94.38ZA.3.b

in modifying a national development management policy.

94.38ZA.4

Before making or revoking a direction under  subsection (1) , or modifying a
national development management policy, the Secretary of State must ensure
that such consultation with, and participation by, the public or any bodies or
persons as the Secretary of State thinks appropriate takes place.

94.38ZA.5

The only cases in which no consultation or participation need take place under
subsection (4)  are those where the Secretary of State thinks that none is
appropriate because—

94.38ZA.5.a

a proposed modification of a national development management policy does not
materially affect the policy or only corrects an obvious error or omission, or

94.38ZA.5.b

it is necessary, or expedient, for the Secretary of State to act urgently.

##### Spatial development strategy for London

###### Contents of the spatial development strategy

95

95.1

Section 334 of GLAA 1999 (the spatial development strategy) is amended as
follows.

95.2

For subsections (2) to (6) substitute—

95.2.2A

The spatial development strategy must include a statement of the Mayor’s
policies (however expressed), in relation to the development and use of land
in Greater London, which are—

95.2.2A.a

of strategic importance to Greater London, and

95.2.2A.b

designed to achieve objectives that relate to the particular characteristics
or circumstances of Greater London.

95.2.2B

The spatial development strategy may specify or describe infrastructure the
provision of which the Mayor considers to be of strategic importance to
Greater London for the purposes of—

95.2.2B.a

supporting or facilitating development in Greater London,

95.2.2B.b

mitigating, or adapting to, climate change, or

95.2.2B.c

promoting or improving the economic, social or environmental well-being of
Greater London.

95.2.2C

The spatial development strategy may specify or describe affordable housing
the provision of which the Mayor considers to be of strategic importance to
Greater London.

95.2.2D

For the purposes of subsections  (2A)  to  (2C)  a matter—

95.2.2D.a

may be of strategic importance to Greater London if it does not affect the
whole area of Greater London, but

95.2.2D.b

is not to be regarded as being of strategic importance to Greater London,
unless it is of strategic importance to more than one London borough.

95.2.2E

The Secretary of State may, by regulations under section 343 below, prescribe
further matters the spatial development strategy may, or must, deal with.

95.3

After subsection (8) insert—

95.3.9

The spatial development strategy must be designed to secure that the use and
development of land in Greater London contribute to the mitigation of, and
adaptation to, climate change.

95.3.10

The spatial development strategy must take account of any local nature
recovery strategy, under section 104 of the Environment Act 2021, that relates
to an area in Greater London, including in particular—

95.3.10.a

the areas identified in the strategy as areas which—

95.3.10.a.i

are, or could become, of particular importance for biodiversity, or

95.3.10.a.ii

are areas where the recovery or enhancement of biodiversity could make a
particular contribution to other environmental benefits,

95.3.10.b

the priorities set out in the strategy for recovering or enhancing
biodiversity, and

95.3.10.c

the proposals set out in the strategy as to potential measures relating to
those priorities.

95.3.11

The spatial development strategy must not—

95.3.11.a

include anything that is not permitted or required by or under subsections
(2A)  to (8),

95.3.11.b

specify particular sites where development should take place, or

95.3.11.c

be inconsistent with or (in substance) repeat any national development
management policy.

###### Adjustment of terminology

96

96.1

In section 337 of GLAA 1999 (publication of spatial development strategy)—

96.1.a

for the heading substitute  “Adoption.” ;

96.1.b

in subsection (1), for “publish” substitute  “adopt” ;

96.1.c

after that subsection insert—

96.1.c.1A

The Mayor adopts the strategy by publishing it together with a statement that
it has been adopted.

;

96.1.d

in subsection (2), for “published” substitute  “adopted” ;

96.1.e

in subsection (4), for “published”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“adopted” ;

96.1.f

in subsection (5), for “publication” substitute  “adoption” ;

96.1.g

in subsection (6), for “published” substitute  “adopted” ;

96.1.h

in subsection (7), for “publish” substitute  “adopt” ;

96.1.i

in subsection (8), for “publish” substitute  “adopt” ;

96.1.j

in subsection (9), for “published” substitute  “adopted” .

96.2

Also in GLAA 1999—

96.2.a

in section 41(1)(c), for “published” substitute  “adopted” ;

96.2.b

in section 43(5)(a), for “published”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“adopted” ;

96.2.c

in section 334(1), for “publish” substitute  “adopt” ;

96.2.d

in section 336—

96.2.d.i

in subsection (1), for “publishes” substitute  “adopts” ;

96.2.d.ii

in subsection (4), for “publish” substitute  “adopt” ;

96.2.e

in section 338(1), for “publishing” substitute  “adopting” ;

96.2.f

in section 341—

96.2.f.i

in subsection (1), for “publish” substitute  “adopt” ;

96.2.f.ii

in subsection (2), for “publish” substitute  “adopt” ;

96.2.f.iii

in subsection (3), for “publication”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“adoption” ;

96.2.g

in section 343(1)(c), after “publication,” insert  “adoption,” .

96.3

In section 74(1C)(b) of TCPA 1990, for “published” substitute  “adopted” .

96.4

Any reference in an enactment to a strategy, or alteration or replacement of a
strategy, adopted under Part 8 of GLAA 1999 (or the adoption of it) includes
reference to a strategy, alteration or replacement published under that Part
before this section comes into force (or the publication of it).

##### Local planning

###### Plan making

97

Schedule 7  contains provision for, and in connection with, joint spatial
development strategies, local plans, minerals and waste plans and
supplementary plans.

##### Neighbourhood planning

###### Contents of a neighbourhood development plan

98

98.1

Section 38B of PCPA 2004 (provision that may be made by neighbourhood
development plans) is amended as follows.

98.2

Before subsection (1) insert—

98.2.A1

A neighbourhood development plan may include—

98.2.A1.a

policies (however expressed) in relation to the amount, type and location of,
and timetable for, development in the neighbourhood area in the period for
which the plan has effect;

98.2.A1.b

other policies (however expressed) in relation to the use or development of
land in the neighbourhood area which are designed to achieve objectives that
relate to the particular characteristics or circumstances of that area, any
part of that area or one or more specific sites in that area;

98.2.A1.c

details of any infrastructure requirements, or requirements for affordable
housing, to which development in accordance with the policies, included in the
plan under paragraph  (a)  or  (b) , would give rise;

98.2.A1.d

requirements with respect to design that relate to development, or development
of a particular description, throughout the neighbourhood area, in any part of
that area or at one or more specific sites in that area, which the qualifying
body considers should be met for planning permission for the development to be
granted.

98.3

After subsection (2A) insert—

98.3.2B

So far as the qualifying body considers appropriate, having regard to the
subject matter of the neighbourhood development plan, the plan must—

98.3.2B.a

be designed to secure that the development and use of land in the
neighbourhood area contribute to the mitigation of, and adaptation to, climate
change, and

98.3.2B.b

take account of any local nature recovery strategy, under section 104 of the
Environment Act 2021, that relates to all or part of the neighbourhood area,
including in particular—

98.3.2B.b.i

the areas identified in the strategy as areas which—

98.3.2B.b.i.A

are, or could become, of particular importance for biodiversity, or

98.3.2B.b.i.B

are areas where the recovery or enhancement of biodiversity could make a
particular contribution to other environmental benefits,

98.3.2B.b.ii

the priorities set out in the strategy for recovering or enhancing
biodiversity, and

98.3.2B.b.iii

the proposals set out in the strategy as to potential measures relating to
those priorities.

98.3.2C

The neighbourhood development plan must not—

98.3.2C.a

include anything that is not permitted or required by or under subsections
(A1) to (2A) or regulations under subsection (4), or

98.3.2C.b

be inconsistent with or (in substance) repeat any national development
management policy.

98.4

In subsection (4)(b), after “requiring” insert  “or permitting” .

###### Neighbourhood development plans and orders: basic conditions

99

99.1

In paragraph 8(2) of Schedule 4B to TCPA 1990 (basic conditions for making
neighbourhood development order or neighbourhood plan)—

99.1.a

for paragraph (e) substitute—

99.1.a.ea

the making of the order would not have the effect of preventing development
from taking place which—

99.1.a.ea.i

is proposed in the development plan for the area of the authority (or any part
of that area), and

99.1.a.ea.ii

if it took place, would provide housing,

;

99.1.b

after paragraph (f) (but before the “and” at the end of that paragraph)
insert—

99.1.b.fa

any requirements imposed in relation to the order by or under  Part 6  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023 (environmental outcomes reports) have
been complied with,

.

99.2

In section 38C(5) of PCPA 2004 (neighbourhood development plans: modifications
of Schedule 4B to TCPA 1990), in paragraph (d), for the words from “if” to the
end substitute

if—

99.2.i

sub-paragraphs (2)(b) and (c) were omitted,

99.2.ii

in sub-paragraph (2), for paragraph (ea) there were substituted—

99.2.ii.ea

the making of the neighbourhood development plan would not result in the
development plan for the area of the authority proposing that less housing is
provided by means of development taking place in that area than if the
neighbourhood development plan were not to be made,

, and

99.2.iii

sub-paragraphs (3) to (5) were omitted.

99.3

In paragraph 11(2) of Schedule A2 to PCPA 2004 (modification of neighbourhood
development plans: basic conditions)—

99.3.a

for paragraph (c) substitute—

99.3.a.ca

the making of the plan would not result in the development plan for the area
of the authority proposing that less housing is provided by means of
development taking place in that area than if the draft plan were not to be
made,

;

99.3.b

after paragraph (d) (but before the “and” at the end of that paragraph)
insert—

99.3.b.da

any requirements imposed in relation to the plan by or under  Part 6  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023 (environmental outcomes reports) have
been complied with,

.

##### Requirement to assist with plan making

###### Requirement to assist with certain plan making

100

In Part 3 of PCPA 2004 (development), after section 39 (sustainable
development) insert—

########## Assistance with certain parts of development plan etc

########### Power to require assistance with certain plan making

100.39A

100.39A.1

Subsection  (2)  applies if a plan-making authority notifies a prescribed
public body in writing that the authority requires the body, under this
section, to assist the authority in relation to the preparation or revision of
a relevant plan by the authority.

100.39A.2

The prescribed public body must do everything that the plan-making authority
reasonably requires of the body to assist the authority in relation to the
preparation or revision of the relevant plan.

100.39A.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision as to—

100.39A.3.a

what a plan-making authority must, may or may not require a prescribed public
body to do under  subsection (2) ;

100.39A.3.b

the procedure to be followed in doing anything under this section;

100.39A.3.c

the determination of the time by or at which anything must be done under this
section;

100.39A.3.d

the form and content of a notification under  subsection (1)  or of any other
document or information provided under this section.

100.39A.4

A “plan-making authority” is a body which, or other person who, is to prepare
or revise (whether acting alone or jointly) a relevant plan.

100.39A.5

Each of the following is a “relevant plan”—

100.39A.5.a

a local plan, a minerals and waste plan, a supplementary plan or policies map
under Part 2;

100.39A.5.b

a spatial development strategy under Part 8 of the Greater London Authority
Act 1999 or Part 2 of this Act;

100.39A.5.c

an infrastructure delivery strategy under Part 10A of the Planning Act 2008;

100.39A.5.d

a marine plan under the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 for the English
inshore region, the English offshore region or any part of either of those
regions.

100.39A.6

A “prescribed public body” is a body which, or other person who, is prescribed
or of a prescribed description and certain of whose functions are of a public
nature.

100.39A.7

References in this section to the preparation or revision of a relevant plan
include any activities that could reasonably be considered to prepare the way
for the preparation or revision of the plan.

100.39A.8

In this section—

      “ the English inshore region ” and “the English offshore region” have
the same meaning as in the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009;           “
revision ”, in relation to a relevant plan, includes any alteration,
amendment, replacement or other modification (and related expressions are to
be read accordingly).

##### Minor and consequential amendments

###### Minor and consequential amendments in connection with 

101

Schedule 8  contains minor and consequential amendments in connection with
Chapter 2 .

#### Heritage

##### Regard to certain heritage assets in exercise of planning functions

102

102.1

After section 58A of TCPA 1990 insert—

########### Regard to certain heritage assets

############ Duty of regard to certain heritage assets in granting permissions

102.1.58B

102.1.58B.1

In considering whether to grant planning permission or permission in principle
for the development of land in England which affects a relevant asset or its
setting, the local planning authority or (as the case may be) the Secretary of
State must have special regard to the desirability of preserving or enhancing
the asset or its setting.

102.1.58B.2

For the purposes of subsection  (1) , preserving or enhancing a relevant asset
or its setting includes preserving or enhancing any feature, quality or
characteristic of the asset or setting that contributes to the significance of
the asset.

102.1.58B.3

For the purposes of this section—

102.1.58B.3.a

anything within an entry in the first column of the following table is a
“relevant asset”, and

102.1.58B.3.b

“ significance ”, in relation to a relevant asset, has the meaning given by
the corresponding entry in the second column of the table.

TABLE “relevant asset” “significance” a scheduled monument within the meaning
of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979 (see section 1(11)
of that Act) the national importance referred to in section 1(3) of that Act a
garden or other area of land included in a register maintained by the Historic
Buildings and Monuments Commission for England under section 8C of the
Historic Buildings and Ancient Monuments Act 1953 the special historic
interest referred to in subsection (1) of that section a site designated as a
restricted area under section 1 of the Protection of Wrecks Act 1973 the
historical, archaeological or artistic importance referred to in subsection
(1)(b) of that section a World Heritage Site (that is to say, a property
appearing on the World Heritage List kept under paragraph (2) of article 11 of
the UNESCO Convention Concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and
Natural Heritage adopted at Paris on 16 November 1972) the outstanding
universal value referred to in that paragraph

102.1.58B.4

The reference in subsection  (1)  to a local planning authority includes the
Mayor of London in relation to the grant of planning permission by Mayoral
development order.

102.1.58B.5

Nothing in this section applies in relation to neighbourhood development
orders (except as provided in Schedule 4B) or street vote development orders
(except as provided by SVDO regulations within the meaning given by section
61QM).

102.2

In paragraph 8 of Schedule 4B to TCPA 1990 (matters to be considered in
examining draft neighbourhood development order)—

102.2.a

in sub-paragraph (2)—

102.2.a.i

in paragraph (b), after “preserving” insert  “or enhancing” ;

102.2.a.ii

after paragraph (c) insert—

102.2.a.ii.ca

having special regard to the desirability of preserving or enhancing anything
that is a relevant asset for the purposes of section  58B  or its setting, it
is appropriate to make the order,

;

102.2.b

after sub-paragraph (4) insert—

102.2.b.4A

Sub-paragraph (2) (ca)  applies in relation to anything that is a relevant
asset for the purposes of section  58B  only in so far as the order grants
planning permission for development that affects the asset or its setting.

102.2.b.4B

Subsections  (2)  and  (3) (b)  of section  58B  apply for the purposes of
sub-paragraphs (2) (ca)  and  (4A)  as they apply for the purposes of that
section.

102.3

In section 16 of the Listed Buildings Act (decisions on applications for
listed building consent),   in subsection (2), after “preserving” insert “or
enhancing”.

102.4

In section 66 of the Listed Buildings Act (duty to have regard to listed
buildings in the exercise of certain planning functions)—

102.4. 

in subsection (1), after “preserving” insert  “or enhancing” ;

102.4.a

after subsection (1) insert—

102.4.a.1A

The reference in subsection (1) to a local planning authority includes the
Mayor of London in relation to the grant of planning permission by Mayoral
development order.

;

102.4.b

in subsection (2), after “preserving” insert  “or enhancing” .

##### Temporary stop notices in relation to listed buildings

103

103.1

The Listed Buildings Act is amended as follows.

103.2

After section 44A insert—

########### Temporary stop notices in England

103.2.44AA

103.2.44AA.1

This section applies where it appears to a local planning authority in England
that—

103.2.44AA.1.a

works have been or are being executed to a listed building in their area, and

103.2.44AA.1.b

the works are such as to involve a contravention of section 9(1) or (2).

103.2.44AA.2

The authority may issue a temporary stop notice if, having regard to the
effect of the works on the character of the building as one of special
architectural or historic interest, they consider it is expedient that the
works (or part of them) be stopped immediately.

103.2.44AA.3

A temporary stop notice must be in writing and must—

103.2.44AA.3.a

specify the works in question,

103.2.44AA.3.b

prohibit execution of the works (or so much of them as is specified in the
notice),

103.2.44AA.3.c

set out the authority’s reasons for issuing the notice, and

103.2.44AA.3.d

include a statement of the effect of section 44AB.

103.2.44AA.4

A temporary stop notice may be served on a person who appears to the
authority—

103.2.44AA.4.a

to be executing the works or causing them to be executed,

103.2.44AA.4.b

to have an interest in the building, or

103.2.44AA.4.c

to be an occupier of the building.

103.2.44AA.5

The authority must display a copy of the notice on the building; and the copy
must specify the date on which it is first displayed.

103.2.44AA.6

A temporary stop notice takes effect when the copy of it is first displayed in
accordance with subsection  (5) .

103.2.44AA.7

A temporary stop notice ceases to have effect—

103.2.44AA.7.a

at the end of the period of 56 days beginning with the day on which the copy
of it is first displayed in accordance with subsection  (5) , or

103.2.44AA.7.b

if the notice specifies a shorter period beginning with that day, at the end
of that period.

103.2.44AA.8

But if the authority withdraws the notice before the time when it would
otherwise cease to have effect under subsection  (7) , the notice ceases to
have effect on its withdrawal.

103.2.44AA.9

A local planning authority may not issue a subsequent temporary stop notice in
relation to the same works unless the authority have, since issuing the
previous notice, taken other enforcement action in relation to the
contravention referred to in subsection  (1) (b) .

103.2.44AA.10

The reference in subsection  (9)  to taking other enforcement action includes
a reference to obtaining an injunction under section 44A.

103.2.44AA.11

A temporary stop notice does not prohibit the execution of works of such
description, or the execution of works in such circumstances, as the Secretary
of State may by regulations prescribe.

########### Temporary stop notices in England: offence

103.2.44AB

103.2.44AB.1

A person is guilty of an offence if the person contravenes, or causes or
permits a contravention of, a temporary stop notice—

103.2.44AB.1.a

which has been served on the person under section  44AA (4) , or

103.2.44AB.1.b

a copy of which has been displayed in accordance with section  44AA (5) .

103.2.44AB.2

An offence under this section may be charged by reference to a day or to some
longer period; and accordingly, a person may, in relation to the same
temporary stop notice, be convicted of more than one offence under this
section by reference to different periods.

103.2.44AB.3

In proceedings against a person for an offence under this section, it is a
defence for the person to show that the person did not know, and could not
reasonably have been expected to know, of the existence of the temporary stop
notice.

103.2.44AB.4

In proceedings against a person for an offence under this section, it is also
a defence for the person to show—

103.2.44AB.4.a

that works to the building were urgently necessary in the interests of safety
or health or for the preservation of the building,

103.2.44AB.4.b

that it was not practicable to secure safety or health or, as the case may be,
the preservation of the building by works of repair or works for affording
temporary support or shelter,

103.2.44AB.4.c

that the works carried out were limited to the minimum measures immediately
necessary, and

103.2.44AB.4.d

that notice in writing justifying in detail the carrying out of the works was
given to the local planning authority as soon as reasonably practicable.

103.2.44AB.5

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction, or on conviction on indictment, to a fine.

103.2.44AB.6

In determining the amount of a fine to be imposed on a person convicted under
this section, the court must in particular have regard to any financial
benefit which has accrued or appears likely to accrue to the person in
consequence of the offence.

########### Temporary stop notices in England: compensation

103.2.44AC

103.2.44AC.1

A person who, on the day when a temporary stop notice is first displayed in
accordance with section  44AA (5) , has an interest in the building is, on
making a claim to the local planning authority within the prescribed time and
in the prescribed manner, entitled to be paid compensation by the authority in
respect of any loss or damage directly attributable to the effect of the
notice.

103.2.44AC.2

But subsection  (1)  applies only if—

103.2.44AC.2.a

the works specified in the notice are not such as to involve a contravention
of section 9(1) or (2), or

103.2.44AC.2.b

the authority withdraws the notice other than following the grant of listed
building consent, after the day mentioned in subsection  (1) , which
authorises the works.

103.2.44AC.3

The loss or damage in respect of which compensation is payable under this
section includes a sum payable in respect of a breach of contract caused by
the taking of action necessary to comply with the notice.

103.2.44AC.4

No compensation is payable under this section in the case of loss or damage
suffered by a claimant if—

103.2.44AC.4.a

the claimant was required to provide information under a relevant provision,
and

103.2.44AC.4.b

the loss or damage could have been avoided if the claimant had provided the
information or had otherwise co-operated with the planning authority when
responding to the notice.

103.2.44AC.5

In subsection  (4) (a) , each of the following is a relevant provision—

103.2.44AC.5.a

section 16 of the Local Government (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1976, and

103.2.44AC.5.b

section 330 of the principal Act.

103.3

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

103.4

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

103.5

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

103.6

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

103.7

In section 45 (concurrent enforcement functions in London of the Historic
Buildings and Monuments Commission)—

103.7.a

after “43” insert  “and  44AA  to  44AC ” ;

103.7.b

after “those provisions” insert  “, and in any provision of this Act referring
to anything done under those provisions,” .

103.8

In section 46 (concurrent enforcement functions of the Secretary of State)—

103.8.a

after subsection (1) insert—

103.8.a.1A

If it appears to the Secretary of State to be expedient that a temporary stop
notice should be issued in respect of any land in England, the Secretary of
State may issue such a notice.

;

103.8.b

in subsection (2), after “(1)” insert  “or  (1A) ” ;

103.8.c

after subsection (3) insert—

103.8.c.3A

A temporary stop notice issued by the Secretary of State shall have the same
effect as a notice issued by the local planning authority under section  44AA
.

103.9

In section 82A(2) (exceptions from Crown application), after paragraph (f)
insert—

103.9.fza

section  44AB ;

.

103.10

In section 88 (rights of entry)—

103.10.a

after subsection (3) insert—

103.10.a.3ZA

Any person duly authorised in writing by the Secretary of State, a local
planning authority in England or, where the authorisation relates to a
building situated in Greater London, the Commission may at any reasonable time
enter any land for any of the following purposes—

103.10.a.3ZA.a

securing the display of a temporary stop notice issued under section  44AA ;

103.10.a.3ZA.b

ascertaining whether a temporary stop notice issued under that section is
being complied with;

103.10.a.3ZA.c

considering any claim for compensation under section  44AC .

;

103.10.b

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

103.10.c

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

103.11

In section 88B (supplementary provision about rights of entry), after
subsection (1) insert—

103.11.1ZA

Subsection (1) does not apply to a person authorised under section 88 (3ZA)
who intends to enter the land for either of the purposes mentioned in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of that subsection.

103.12

In Schedule 2 (lapse of building preservation notices)—

103.12.a

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

103.12.b

after paragraph 4 insert—

103.12.b.4A

Any temporary stop notice served under section  44AA (4)  by the local
planning authority with respect to the building while the building
preservation notice was in force ceases to have effect.

;

103.12.c

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### Urgent works to listed buildings: occupied buildings and recovery of costs

104

104.1

The Listed Buildings Act is amended as follows.

104.2

In section 54 (urgent works to preserve listed buildings)—

104.2.a

omit subsection (4);

104.2.b

in subsection (5A), omit “in Wales”;

104.2.c

after subsection (7) insert—

104.2.c.8

Section 6 of the Local Land Charges Act 1975 (general charge registrable
pending specific charge) applies in relation to expenditure incurred in
executing works under this section as if—

104.2.c.8.a

the Commission and the Secretary of State were local authorities, and

104.2.c.8.b

the giving of a notice under section 55 were the making of an order.

104.3

In section 55 (recovery of expenses of urgent works)—

104.3.a

after subsection (2) insert—

104.3.a.2A

A notice given under subsection (2) in relation to a building in England is a
local land charge.

;

104.3.b

in subsection (5A)—

104.3.b.i

after “Where” insert  “the Secretary of State or” ;

104.3.b.ii

after “local authority” insert  “or the Commission” ;

104.3.c

in subsection (5B)—

104.3.c.i

for the words from “In” to “when the” substitute  “As from the time when a” ;

104.3.c.ii

for “the Welsh Ministers may prescribe” substitute  “may be prescribed” ;

104.3.d

after subsection (5B) insert—

104.3.d.5BA

An order under subsection (5B) may be made—

104.3.d.5BA.a

by the Secretary of State, in relation to buildings in England;

104.3.d.5BA.b

by the Welsh Ministers, in relation to buildings in Wales.

;

104.3.e

in subsection (5C), for “that time” substitute  “the time mentioned in
subsection (5B)” ;

104.3.f

after subsection (5G) insert—

104.3.f.5H

If, after a notice is given under subsection (2) in relation to a building in
England, there is a change in the owner of the building, a fresh notice may be
given to the new owner at any time before the first notice becomes operative
(and the provisions of this section apply again in relation to the fresh
notice).

104.3.f.5I

If a notice is given to the new owner under subsection  (5H) , the first
notice referred to in that subsection ceases to have effect.

##### Removal of compensation for building preservation notice

105

105.1

The Listed Buildings Act is amended as follows.

105.2

In section 3 (temporary listing in England: building preservation notices),
after subsection (1) insert—

105.2.1A

Before serving a building preservation notice under this section, the local
planning authority must consult with the Commission.

105.2.1B

Subsection  (1A)  does not apply where the Commission proposes to serve a
building preservation notice under this section (see subsection (8)).

105.3

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

105.4

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Grant and implementation of planning permission

##### Street votes

106

106.1

TCPA 1990 is amended in accordance with subsection  (2) .

106.2

After section 61Q (community right to build orders) insert—

########### Street vote development orders

############ Street vote development orders

106.2.61QA

106.2.61QA.1

A process may be initiated by or on behalf of a qualifying group for the
purpose of requiring the Secretary of State to make a street vote development
order.

106.2.61QA.2

A “street vote development order” is an order which grants planning permission
in relation to a particular street area specified in the order—

106.2.61QA.2.a

for development specified in the order, or

106.2.61QA.2.b

for development of any description or class specified in the order.

############ Qualifying groups

106.2.61QB

106.2.61QB.1

A “ qualifying group ”, in relation to a street vote development order, is a
group of individuals—

106.2.61QB.1.a

each of whom on the prescribed date meet the conditions in subsection  (2) ,
and

106.2.61QB.1.b

comprised of at least—

106.2.61QB.1.b.i

the prescribed number, or

106.2.61QB.1.b.ii

the prescribed proportion of persons of a prescribed description.

106.2.61QB.2

The conditions are that the individual—

106.2.61QB.2.a

is entitled to vote in—

106.2.61QB.2.a.i

an Authority election, where any part of the street area to which the street
vote development order would relate is within the City of London, or

106.2.61QB.2.a.ii

an election of councillors of any relevant council (other than the City of
London) any part of whose area is within the street area to which the street
vote development order would relate,

106.2.61QB.2.b

has a qualifying address for that election which is in the street area that
the street vote development order would relate to, and

106.2.61QB.2.c

does not have an anonymous entry in the register of local government electors.

106.2.61QB.3

A “ relevant council ” means—

106.2.61QB.3.a

a district council,

106.2.61QB.3.b

a London borough council,

106.2.61QB.3.c

a metropolitan district council, or

106.2.61QB.3.d

a county council in relation to any area in England for which there is no
district council.

106.2.61QB.4

For the purposes of this section—

106.2.61QB.4.a

“ anonymous entry ” is to be construed in accordance with section 9B of the
Representation of the People Act 1983;

106.2.61QB.4.b

“ Authority election ” has the meaning given by section 203(1) of the
Representation of the People Act 1983;

106.2.61QB.4.c

the Inner Temple and the Middle Temple are to be treated as forming part of
the City of London;

106.2.61QB.4.d

“ qualifying address ” has the meaning given by section 9 of the
Representation of the People Act 1983.

############ Meaning of “street area”

106.2.61QC

106.2.61QC.1

A “ street area ” means an area in England—

106.2.61QC.1.a

which is of a prescribed description, and

106.2.61QC.1.b

no part of which is within an excluded area.

106.2.61QC.2

An “ excluded area ” means—

106.2.61QC.2.a

a National Park or the Broads;

106.2.61QC.2.b

an area comprising a world heritage property and its buffer zone as identified
in accordance with the Operational Guidelines for the Implementation of the
World Heritage Convention as published from time to time;

106.2.61QC.2.c

an area notified as a site of special scientific interest under section 28 of
the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981;

106.2.61QC.2.d

an area designated as an area of outstanding natural beauty under section 82
of the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000;

106.2.61QC.2.e

an area identified as green belt land, local green space or metropolitan open
land in a development plan;

106.2.61QC.2.f

a European site within the meaning given by regulation 8 of the Conservation
of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/1012 );

106.2.61QC.2.g

such other area as may be specified or described in regulations made by the
Secretary of State.

106.2.61QC.3

In this section, “ a world heritage property ” means a property appearing on
the World Heritage List (published in accordance with Article 11 of the UNESCO
Convention Concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural
Heritage adopted on 16 November 1972).

############ Process for making street vote development orders

106.2.61QD

106.2.61QD.1

The Secretary of State must make regulations (“ SVDO regulations ”) which make
provision about the preparation and making of a street vote development order.

106.2.61QD.2

SVDO regulations must, in particular, make provision—

106.2.61QD.2.a

for the appointment by the Secretary of State of a person to—

106.2.61QD.2.a.i

handle proposals made under  section 61QA (1)  (“street vote proposals”) or
specified aspects of those proposals,

106.2.61QD.2.a.ii

carry out the independent examination of such proposals, and

106.2.61QD.2.a.iii

to make street vote development orders on the Secretary of State’s behalf,

(and for the above purposes the same or different persons may be appointed);

106.2.61QD.2.b

as to the circumstances in which a street vote development order may be made
and in particular must make provision requiring a referendum under section
61QE  to be held before an order may be made.

106.2.61QD.3

SVDO regulations may, in particular, include provision as to—

106.2.61QD.3.a

the functions of a qualifying group in relation to a street vote proposal and
how those functions are to be discharged (including provision for a member of
the group or another prescribed person to be responsible for discharging
them);

106.2.61QD.3.b

the form and content of a street vote proposal;

106.2.61QD.3.c

the information and documents (if any) which must accompany a street vote
proposal;

106.2.61QD.3.d

the circumstances and the way in which a proposal may be withdrawn;

106.2.61QD.3.e

the steps that must be taken, and the conditions that must be met, before a
proposal falls to be considered by an appointed person;

106.2.61QD.3.f

the circumstances in which an appointed person may or must decline to consider
or reject a proposal;

106.2.61QD.3.g

the steps that must be taken, and the conditions that must be met, before a
proposal falls to be independently examined;

106.2.61QD.3.h

the functions of the independent examination in relation to the proposal;

106.2.61QD.3.i

the circumstances in which an appointed person may terminate the independent
examination (including provision as to the procedure for doing so);

106.2.61QD.3.j

the procedure to be followed at an examination (including provision regarding
the procedure to be followed at any hearing or inquiry or provision
designating the hearing or inquiry as a statutory inquiry for the purposes of
section 9 of the Tribunals and Inquiries Act 1992);

106.2.61QD.3.k

the power to summons witnesses at any inquiry (including by applying, with or
without modifications, section 250(3) and (4) of the Local Government Act
1972);

106.2.61QD.3.l

the award of costs in connection with an examination;

106.2.61QD.3.m

the steps to be taken following the independent examination (including
provision for prescribed modifications to be made to the draft street vote
development order);

106.2.61QD.3.n

the payment by a local planning authority of remuneration and expenses
relating to the examination;

106.2.61QD.3.o

the functions of local planning authorities, or other authorities, in
connection with street vote development orders (including provision regulating
the arrangements of authorities for the discharge of those functions);

106.2.61QD.3.p

cases where there are two or more local planning authorities any of whose area
falls within the area of the street area that the proposal relates to
(including provision modifying functions of the local planning authorities
under the regulations in such cases or provision applying, with or without
modifications, any provision of Part 6 of the Local Government Act 1972 in
cases where the provision would not otherwise apply);

106.2.61QD.3.q

requirements about the giving of notice and publicity;

106.2.61QD.3.r

the information and documents that are to be made available to the public;

106.2.61QD.3.s

consultation with and participation by the public or prescribed persons;

106.2.61QD.3.t

the making and consideration of representations;

106.2.61QD.3.u

the determination of the time by or at which anything must be done in
connection with street vote development orders;

106.2.61QD.3.v

the provision by any person of prescribed information or documents or
prescribed descriptions of information or documents in connection with a
street vote development order;

106.2.61QD.3.w

the making of reasonable charges for anything done in connection with street
vote development orders;

106.2.61QD.3.x

when a court may entertain proceedings for questioning prescribed decisions to
act or any other prescribed matter.

############ Referendums

106.2.61QE

106.2.61QE.1

SVDO regulations may make provision about referendums held in connection with
street vote development orders and may, in particular, include provision—

106.2.61QE.1.a

as to the circumstances in which an appointed person or the Secretary of State
may direct relevant councils to carry out a referendum in relation to a street
vote development order;

106.2.61QE.1.b

the functions of such councils in relation to the referendum;

106.2.61QE.1.c

dealing with any case where there are two or more relevant councils any of
whose area falls within the area in which a referendum is to take place
(including provision for only one council to carry out functions in relation
to the referendum in such a case);

106.2.61QE.1.d

prescribing a date by which the referendum must be held or before which it
cannot be held;

106.2.61QE.1.e

as to the question to be asked in the referendum and any explanatory material
in relation to that question;

106.2.61QE.1.f

as to voter eligibility for the referendum;

106.2.61QE.1.g

as to the publicity to be given in connection with the referendum;

106.2.61QE.1.h

as to the provision of prescribed information to voters in connection with the
referendum (including information about any infrastructure levy or community
infrastructure levy which is chargeable in respect of development under a
street vote development order);

106.2.61QE.1.i

about the limitation of expenditure in connection with the referendum;

106.2.61QE.1.j

as to the conduct of the referendum;

106.2.61QE.1.k

as to when, where and how voting in the referendum is to take place;

106.2.61QE.1.l

as to how the votes cast are to be counted;

106.2.61QE.1.m

about certification as to the number of persons voting in the referendum and
as to the number of those persons voting in favour of a street vote
development order;

106.2.61QE.1.n

about the combination of polls at the referendum with polls at another
referendum or at any election;

106.2.61QE.1.o

as to the threshold of votes that must be met before a street vote development
order may be made.

106.2.61QE.2

For the purposes of making provision within subsection  (1) , SVDO regulations
may apply or incorporate (with or without modifications) any provision made by
or under any enactment relating to elections or referendums.

106.2.61QE.3

But where the regulations apply or incorporate (with or without modifications)
any provision that creates an offence, the regulations may not impose a
penalty greater than is provided for in respect of that provision.

106.2.61QE.4

Before making provision within this section, the Secretary of State must
consult the Electoral Commission.

106.2.61QE.5

In this section “ enactment ” means an enactment, whenever passed or made.

############ Regulations: general provision

106.2.61QF

SVDO regulations may—

106.2.61QF.a

provide for exemptions (including exemptions which are subject to prescribed
conditions);

106.2.61QF.b

confer a function, including a function involving the exercise of a
discretion, on any person.

############ Provision that may be made by a street vote development order

106.2.61QG

106.2.61QG.1

A street vote development order may make provision in relation to—

106.2.61QG.1.a

all land in the street area specified in the order,

106.2.61QG.1.b

any part of that land, or

106.2.61QG.1.c

a site in that area specified in the order.

106.2.61QG.2

A street vote development order may only provide for the granting of planning
permission for any development that—

106.2.61QG.2.a

is prescribed development or development of a prescribed description or class,

106.2.61QG.2.b

is not excluded development, and

106.2.61QG.2.c

satisfies any further prescribed conditions.

106.2.61QG.3

A street vote development order may make different provision for different
purposes.

############ Meaning of “excluded development”

106.2.61QH

The following development is excluded development for the purposes of  section
61QG (2) (b)  —

106.2.61QH.a

development of a scheduled monument within the meaning given by section 1(11)
of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979;

106.2.61QH.b

Schedule 1 development as defined by regulation 2 of the Town and Country
Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/571 );

106.2.61QH.c

development that consists (whether wholly or partly) of a nationally
significant infrastructure project (within the meaning of the Planning Act
2008);

106.2.61QH.d

development of a listed building within the meaning given by section 1(5) of
the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation) Areas Act 1990;

106.2.61QH.e

development consisting of the winning and working of minerals;

106.2.61QH.f

such other development as may be specified or described in regulations made by
the Secretary of State.

############ Permission granted by street vote development orders

106.2.61QI

106.2.61QI.1

The granting of planning permission by a street vote development order is
subject to—

106.2.61QI.1.a

any prescribed conditions or limitations or conditions or limitations of a
prescribed description, and

106.2.61QI.1.b

such other conditions or limitations as may be specified in the order (but see
subsections  (4)  and  (5) ).

106.2.61QI.2

The conditions that may be specified include a condition that unless a
relevant obligation is entered into—

106.2.61QI.2.a

the development authorised by the planning permission or any description of
such development must not be begun, or

106.2.61QI.2.b

anything created in the course of the development authorised by the planning
permission may not be occupied or used for any purpose.

106.2.61QI.3

A relevant obligation for the purposes of subsection  (2)  includes an
obligation which involves the payment of money or affects any estate or
interest in, or rights over, land.

106.2.61QI.4

But an order may only specify a condition that a person enter into an
obligation under section 106 if the obligation—

106.2.61QI.4.a

is necessary to make the development specified in the order acceptable in
planning terms,

106.2.61QI.4.b

is directly related to the development,

106.2.61QI.4.c

is fairly and reasonably related in scale and kind to the development, and

106.2.61QI.4.d

satisfies such other requirements as may be specified in regulations made by
the Secretary of State.

106.2.61QI.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that—

106.2.61QI.5.a

conditions or limitations of a prescribed description may not be imposed under
subsection  (1) (b) ,

106.2.61QI.5.b

conditions or limitations of a prescribed description may only be imposed
under subsection  (1) (b)  in circumstances of a prescribed description, or

106.2.61QI.5.c

no conditions or limitations may be imposed under subsection  (1) (b)  in
circumstances of a prescribed description.

106.2.61QI.6

A condition or limitation prescribed under subsection  (1) (a)  may confer a
function on any person, including a function involving the exercise of a
discretion.

106.2.61QI.7

If—

106.2.61QI.7.a

planning permission granted by a street vote development order for any
development is withdrawn by the revocation of the order under  section 61QJ ,
and

106.2.61QI.7.b

the revocation is made after the development has begun but before it has been
completed,

the development may, despite the withdrawal of the permission, be completed.

106.2.61QI.8

But an order under  section 61QJ  revoking a street vote development order may
provide that  subsection (7)  is not to apply in relation to development
specified in the order under that section.

106.2.61QI.9

In this section “ relevant obligation ” means—

106.2.61QI.9.a

an obligation under section 106 (planning obligations), or

106.2.61QI.9.b

an agreement under section 278 of the Highways Act 1980 (agreements as to
execution of works).

############ Revocation or modification of street vote development orders

106.2.61QJ

106.2.61QJ.1

The Secretary of State may by order revoke or modify a street vote development
order.

106.2.61QJ.2

A local planning authority may, with the consent of the Secretary of State, by
order revoke a street vote development order relating to a street area any
part of which falls within the area of that authority.

106.2.61QJ.3

If a street vote development order is revoked, the person revoking the order
must state the reasons for the revocation.

106.2.61QJ.4

An appointed person may at any time by order modify a street vote development
order for the purpose of correcting errors.

106.2.61QJ.5

A modification of a street vote development order is to be done by replacing
the order with a new one containing the modification.

106.2.61QJ.6

Regulations may make provision in connection with the revocation or
modification of a street vote development order.

106.2.61QJ.7

The regulations may, in particular, include provision as to—

106.2.61QJ.7.a

the giving of notice and publicity in connection with a revocation or
modification;

106.2.61QJ.7.b

the information and documents relating to a revocation or modification that
are to be made available to the public;

106.2.61QJ.7.c

the making of reasonable charges for anything provided as a result of the
regulations;

106.2.61QJ.7.d

consultation with and participation by the public in relation to a revocation
or modification;

106.2.61QJ.7.e

the making and consideration of representations about a revocation or
modification (including the time by which representations must be made).

############ Financial assistance in relation to street votes

106.2.61QK

106.2.61QK.1

The Secretary of State may do anything that the Secretary of State considers
appropriate—

106.2.61QK.1.a

for the purpose of publicising or promoting the making of street vote
development orders and the benefits expected to arise from their making, or

106.2.61QK.1.b

for the purpose of giving advice or assistance to anyone in relation to the
making of street vote proposals or the doing of anything else for the purposes
of, or in connection with, such proposals or street vote development orders.

106.2.61QK.2

The things that the Secretary of State may do under this section include, in
particular—

106.2.61QK.2.a

the provision of financial assistance (or the making of arrangements for its
provision) to any body or other person, and

106.2.61QK.2.b

the making of agreements or other arrangements with any body or other person
(under which payments may be made to the person).

106.2.61QK.3

In this section—

106.2.61QK.3.a

the reference to giving advice or assistance includes providing training or
education;

106.2.61QK.3.b

any reference to the provision of financial assistance is to the provision of
financial assistance by any means (including the making of a loan and the
giving of a guarantee or indemnity).

############ Street votes: connected modifications

106.2.61QL

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision modifying the
application of Schedule 7A (biodiversity gain in England) in relation to
planning permission granted by a street vote development order.

############ Interpretation

106.2.61QM

In sections  61QA  to  61QL —

      “ an appointed person ” means a person appointed in accordance with
section 61QD (2) (a) ;           “ excluded development ” has the meaning
given by  section 61QH ;           “ qualifying group ” has the meaning given
by  section 61QB ;           “ relevant council ” has the meaning given by
section 61QB (3) ;           “ street area ” has the meaning given by  section
61QC ;           “ street vote development order ” has the meaning given by
section 61QA (2) ;           “ street vote proposal ” has the meaning given by
section 61QD (2) (a) (i) ;           “ SVDO regulations ” has the meaning
given by  section 61QD (1) .

106.3

Schedule 9  contains minor and consequential amendments in connection with
this section.

##### Street votes: community infrastructure levy

107

107.1

The Planning Act 2008 is amended as follows.

107.2

In section 211(10) (amount of levy)—

107.2.a

at the beginning insert  “Except where subsection (11) applies,” , and

107.2.b

from “, 213” to the end substitute  “to 213 and 214(1) and (2) apply in
relation to a revision of a charging schedule as they apply in relation to a
charging schedule.”

107.3

After section 211(10) insert—

107.3.11

Where the only provision made by a charging schedule or a revision of a
charging schedule is provision for the purpose of determining the amount of
CIL chargeable in respect of street vote development—

107.3.11.a

sections 212 to 213 and 214(1) and (2) do not apply in relation to the
charging schedule or the revision of the charging schedule, and

107.3.11.b

CIL regulations may make provision about procedural requirements that must be
met before the charging schedule or revision may take effect.

107.3.12

“ Street vote development ” means development of land for which planning
permission is granted by a street vote development order made under section
61QA of TCPA 1990.

107.4

After section 212(11) (charging schedule: examination) insert—

107.4.12

For exceptions to this section see section 211(11).

107.5

After section 212A(7) (charging schedule: examiner’s recommendations) insert—

107.5.8

For exceptions to this section see section 211(11).

107.6

After section 213(5) (charging schedule: approval) insert—

107.6.6

For exceptions to this section see section 211(11).

107.7

After section 214(6) (charging schedule: effect) insert—

107.7.7

For exceptions to subsections (1) and (2) of this section see section 211(11).

107.8

After section 214 (charging schedule: effect) insert—

########### Secretary of State: power to require review of certain charging schedules

107.8.214A

107.8.214A.1

This section applies where—

107.8.214A.1.a

a charging schedule makes provision for the purpose of determining the amount
of CIL chargeable in respect of street vote development, and

107.8.214A.1.b

section 211(11) applied in relation to the charging schedule or the revision
of the charging schedule in connection with making such provision.

107.8.214A.2

The Secretary of State may direct a charging authority to review the charging
schedule if the Secretary of State considers that—

107.8.214A.2.a

the economic viability of street vote development in the charging authority’s
area is significantly impaired, or

107.8.214A.2.b

there is a substantial risk that it will become significantly impaired,

as a result of the CIL which is or will be chargeable in respect of street
vote development in that area.

107.8.214A.3

If a charging authority is directed to review its charging schedule under
subsection  (2) , it must—

107.8.214A.3.a

consider whether to revise the charging schedule under section 211(9), and

107.8.214A.3.b

notify the Secretary of State of its decision with reasons.

107.8.214A.4

If the charging authority decides to revise the charging schedule, it must do
so within a reasonable time.

107.8.214A.5

If a charging authority has not complied with a direction given under
subsection  (2)  within a reasonable time and to a standard which the
Secretary of State considers adequate, the Secretary of State may appoint a
person to do so on behalf of the charging authority.

107.8.214A.6

If a person appointed under subsection  (5)  decides that the charging
schedule should be revised, the charging authority must revise the schedule
accordingly within a reasonable time.

107.8.214A.7

If the charging authority fails to revise the charging schedule in accordance
with subsection  (4)  or  (6) , the Secretary of State may appoint a person to
do so on behalf of the charging authority.

107.8.214A.8

CIL regulations may make provision about—

107.8.214A.8.a

procedures for appointing a person under subsection  (5)  or  (7) ,

107.8.214A.8.b

conditions which must be met before such an appointment may be made,

107.8.214A.8.c

procedures which must be followed by the person in complying with a direction
given under subsection  (2)  or revising the charging schedule under
subsection  (7) ,

107.8.214A.8.d

circumstances in which the person may be replaced,

107.8.214A.8.e

duties of a charging authority where a person is appointed to act on its
behalf under subsection  (5)  or  (7) ,

107.8.214A.8.f

liability for costs incurred as a result of the appointment of the person, and

107.8.214A.8.g

what constitutes a reasonable time under subsections  (4)  to  (6) .

107.8.214A.9

In this section “ street vote development ” has the meaning given by section
211(12).

107.9

In section 216(2) (application), after paragraph (f) insert—

107.9.fa

where the CIL is chargeable in respect of street vote development, affordable
housing.

107.10

After section 216(7) insert—

107.10.8

In this section—

      “ affordable housing ” means—         social housing within the meaning
of Part 2 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008, and           any other
description of housing that CIL regulations may specify;                 “
street vote development ” has the meaning given by section 211(12).

##### Street votes: modifications of the Town and Country Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2017

108

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision modifying the
application of the Town and Country Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment)
Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/517 ) in relation to the grant of planning
permission by a street vote development order.

##### Crown development

109

109.1

TCPA 1990 is amended as follows.

109.2

After section 293A insert—

########### Urgent Crown development: applications to the Secretary of State

109.2.293B

109.2.293B.1

This section applies where—

109.2.293B.1.a

the appropriate authority intends to make a relevant application, and

109.2.293B.1.b

the authority considers—

109.2.293B.1.b.i

that the development to which the application relates is of national
importance, and

109.2.293B.1.b.ii

that it is necessary that the development is carried out as a matter of
urgency.

109.2.293B.2

The appropriate authority may make the application to the Secretary of State
under this section.

109.2.293B.3

In this section, “ relevant application ” means—

109.2.293B.3.a

an application for planning permission for the development of land in England,
or

109.2.293B.3.b

an application for approval of a matter that, as defined in section 92, is a
reserved matter in the case of an outline planning permission for the
development of land in England,

but does not include an application of the kind described in section 73(1) or
an application of a description excluded by regulations.

109.2.293B.4

An application under this section must include—

109.2.293B.4.a

such information, documents or other matters as may be required by a
development order, and

109.2.293B.4.b

a statement of the appropriate authority’s grounds for making the application.

109.2.293B.5

As soon as practicable after receiving the application, the Secretary of State
must give notice to the appropriate authority either agreeing or refusing to
determine the application.

109.2.293B.6

The Secretary of State may only agree to determine the application if the
Secretary of State considers that—

109.2.293B.6.a

the development to which the application relates is of national importance,
and

109.2.293B.6.b

it is necessary that the development is carried out as a matter of urgency.

109.2.293B.7

The Secretary of State must send a copy of a notice given under subsection
(5)  to the local planning authority to whom the application could otherwise
have been made.

109.2.293B.8

The Secretary of State may by notice require the appropriate authority to
provide such further information as is necessary for the purposes of—

109.2.293B.8.a

deciding whether to agree or to refuse to determine the application;

109.2.293B.8.b

determining the application.

109.2.293B.9

A development order may make provision—

109.2.293B.9.a

as to the form and manner in which an application must be made;

109.2.293B.9.b

requiring notice to be given of an application;

109.2.293B.9.c

as to the form, content and service of a notice required under  paragraph (b)
;

109.2.293B.9.d

requiring that an application be publicised in such manner as the order may
specify.

109.2.293B.10

A development order which makes provision under subsection  (9)  may include
provision to ensure that the imposition of any requirement under that
subsection does not result in the public disclosure of sensitive information.

109.2.293B.11

For the purposes of subsection  (10) , information is “sensitive” if the
Secretary of State directs that—

109.2.293B.11.a

it relates to matters of national security or measures taken or to be taken to
ensure the security of any premises or property, and

109.2.293B.11.b

its public disclosure would be contrary to the national interest.

109.2.293B.12

A development order making any provision by virtue of this section may make
different provision for different cases or different classes of development.

109.2.293B.13

The Secretary of State may give directions requiring a local planning
authority to do things in relation to an application made under  section 293B
that could otherwise have been made to that authority.

109.2.293B.14

Directions under subsection  (13) —

109.2.293B.14.a

may relate to a particular application or to applications more generally;

109.2.293B.14.b

may be given to a particular authority or to authorities more generally.

########### Urgent Crown development: determination of applications by the Secretary of State

109.2.293C

109.2.293C.1

This section applies where —

109.2.293C.1.a

the appropriate authority has made a relevant application to the Secretary of
State under  section 293B , and

109.2.293C.1.b

the Secretary of State has given notice under  section 293B (5)  agreeing to
determine the application.

109.2.293C.2

Before determining the application, the Secretary of State must consult the
following persons about the application—

109.2.293C.2.a

the local planning authority to which the application could otherwise have
been made, and

109.2.293C.2.b

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

109.2.293C.3

A development order may make provision as to the consultation required by
subsection  (2)  including—

109.2.293C.3.a

provision requiring the Secretary of State to consult other specified persons
(or persons of a specified description);

109.2.293C.3.b

provision as to the manner in which persons may be consulted;

109.2.293C.3.c

different provision for different cases or classes of development.

109.2.293C.4

The Secretary of State may—

109.2.293C.4.a

grant the application, either unconditionally or subject to such conditions as
the Secretary of State thinks fit, or

109.2.293C.4.b

refuse it.

109.2.293C.5

The Secretary of State must notify the local planning authority to whom the
application could otherwise have been made of the Secretary of State’s
decision on the application.

109.2.293C.6

The decision of the Secretary of State on the application is final.

109.2.293C.7

Section 73A applies, with any necessary modifications, to an application for
planning permission under  section 293B  as it applies to an application for
planning permission which is to be determined by the local planning authority
under Part 3.

109.2.293C.8

The following provisions do not apply for the purposes of determining an
application for planning permission under  section 293B —

109.2.293C.8.a

section  58B (1)  of this Act;

109.2.293C.8.b

sections 66(1) and 72(1) of the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation
Areas) Act 1990.

########### Crown development: applications to the Secretary of State

109.2.293D

109.2.293D.1

This section applies where—

109.2.293D.1.a

the appropriate authority intends to make a relevant application, and

109.2.293D.1.b

the authority considers that the development to which it relates is of
national importance.

109.2.293D.2

The appropriate authority may make the application to the Secretary of State
under this section.

109.2.293D.3

In this section and section  293E , “ relevant application ” means—

109.2.293D.3.a

an application for planning permission, or permission in principle, for the
development of land in England, or

109.2.293D.3.b

an application for approval of a matter that, as defined by section 92, is a
reserved matter in the case of an outline planning permission for the
development of land in England,

but does not include an application of the kind described in section 73(1) or
an application of a description excluded by regulations.

109.2.293D.4

After receiving the application, the Secretary of State must give a notice to
the appropriate authority stating whether the Secretary of State considers the
development to be of national importance.

109.2.293D.5

If the Secretary of State considers the development to be of national
importance, the Secretary of State must proceed to determine the application.

109.2.293D.6

If the Secretary of State considers that the development is not of national
importance, the Secretary of State may take the steps referred to in either
subsection  (7)  or, where it applies, subsection  (9) .

109.2.293D.7

The Secretary of State may—

109.2.293D.7.a

refer the application to the local planning authority to whom it could
otherwise have been made, and

109.2.293D.7.b

direct that the application—

109.2.293D.7.b.i

is to be treated as having been made to the authority (and not to the
Secretary of State under this section), and

109.2.293D.7.b.ii

is to be determined by that authority accordingly.

109.2.293D.8

Subsection  (9)  applies where—

109.2.293D.8.a

the application could otherwise have been made to the Secretary of State under
section 62A, and

109.2.293D.8.b

the appropriate authority has given notice to the Secretary of State that the
authority consents to the application being treated as having been made to the
Secretary of State under that section.

109.2.293D.9

The Secretary of State may—

109.2.293D.9.a

direct that the application is to be treated as having been made to the
Secretary of State under section 62A (and not to the Secretary of State under
this section), and

109.2.293D.9.b

determine the application accordingly.

########### Crown development: connected applications to the Secretary of State

109.2.293E

109.2.293E.1

This section applies where—

109.2.293E.1.a

the appropriate authority makes an application to the Secretary of State under
section  293D , and

109.2.293E.1.b

the Secretary of State gives a notice to the appropriate authority under
section 293D (4)  stating that the development to which it relates is
considered by the Secretary of State to be of national importance.

109.2.293E.2

The appropriate authority may make an application (“a connected application”)
under the planning Acts to the Secretary of State where the requirements of
subsection  (3)  are met.

109.2.293E.3

The requirements are that—

109.2.293E.3.a

the application is—

109.2.293E.3.a.i

for listed building consent under the Planning (Listed Buildings and
Conservation Areas) Act 1990,

109.2.293E.3.a.ii

for hazardous substances consent under the Planning (Hazardous Substances) Act
1990, or

109.2.293E.3.a.iii

of a prescribed description,

109.2.293E.3.b

it is considered by the person making the application to be connected to an
application under section  293D ,

109.2.293E.3.c

it is neither a relevant application nor an application of the kind described
in section 73(1), and

109.2.293E.3.d

it relates to land in England.

109.2.293E.4

If a connected application is made under subsection  (2) , but the Secretary
of State considers that it is not connected with the relevant application
concerned, the Secretary of State may—

109.2.293E.4.a

refer the connected application to the local planning authority, or hazardous
substances authority, to whom it could otherwise have been made, and

109.2.293E.4.b

direct that the connected application—

109.2.293E.4.b.i

is to be treated as having been made to that authority (and not to the
Secretary of State under this section), and

109.2.293E.4.b.ii

is to be determined by that authority accordingly.

########### Applications under section 

109.2.293F

109.2.293F.1

The decision of the Secretary of State on an application made under section
293D  or  293E  is final.

109.2.293F.2

The Secretary of State may give directions requiring a local planning
authority or hazardous substances authority to do things in relation to an
application made under section  293D  or  293E  that could otherwise have been
made to that authority.

109.2.293F.3

Directions under subsection  (2) —

109.2.293F.3.a

may relate to a particular application or to applications more generally;

109.2.293F.3.b

may be given to a particular authority or to authorities more generally.

########### Notifying parish councils of applications under section 

109.2.293G

109.2.293G.1

If an application is made to the Secretary of State under section  293D (2)
and a parish council would be entitled under paragraph 8 of Schedule 1 to be
notified of the application were it made to the local planning authority, the
Secretary of State must notify the council of—

109.2.293G.1.a

the application, and

109.2.293G.1.b

any alteration of the application accepted by the Secretary of State.

109.2.293G.2

Paragraph 8(4) and (5) of Schedule 1 apply in relation to duties of the
Secretary of State under  subsection (1)  as they apply to duties of a local
planning authority under paragraph 8(1) or (3B) of that Schedule.

########### Provisions applying to applications made under section 

109.2.293H

109.2.293H.1

Sections 62(3) and (4), 65(5), 70 to 70C, 72(1) and (5) and 73A apply, with
any necessary modifications, to an application for planning permission made to
the Secretary of State under section  293D  as they apply to an application
for planning permission which is to be determined by the local planning
authority.

109.2.293H.2

Any requirements imposed by a development order by virtue of section 62, 65 or
71 or paragraph 8(6) of Schedule 1, or by regulations under paragraph 14(3) or
16 of Schedule 7A, may be applied by a development order, with or without
modifications, to an application for planning permission made to the Secretary
of State under section  293D .

109.2.293H.3

Sections 65(5) and 70 to 70C apply, with any necessary modifications, to an
application for permission in principle made to the Secretary of State under
section  293D  as they apply to an application for permission in principle
which is to be determined by the local planning authority.

109.2.293H.4

Any requirements imposed by a development order by virtue of section 62(1),
(2) or (8), 65 or 71 or paragraph 8(6) of Schedule 1 may be applied by a
development order, with or without modifications, to an application for
permission in principle made to the Secretary of State under section  293D .

109.2.293H.5

Where an application is made to the Secretary of State under section  293E
instead of to the authority to whom it could otherwise have been made, a
development order may (with or without modifications) apply to the application
any enactment that relates to applications of that kind when made to that
authority.

109.2.293H.6

A development order which makes provision under this section to apply to an
application under section  293D  or  293E  (with or without modifications) any
requirement to disclose information may include provision to secure that the
requirement would not result in the public disclosure of sensitive
information.

109.2.293H.7

For the purposes of subsection  (6) , information is “sensitive” if the
Secretary of State directs that—

109.2.293H.7.a

it relates to matters of national security or measures taken or to be taken to
ensure the security of any premises or property, and

109.2.293H.7.b

its public disclosure would be contrary to the national interest.

########### Deciding applications made under section 

109.2.293I

109.2.293I.1

An application made to the Secretary of State under section  293D  or  293E
(“a direct application”) is to be determined by a person appointed by the
Secretary of State for the purpose instead of by the Secretary of State,
subject to section  293J .

109.2.293I.2

Where a person has been appointed under subsection  (1)  or this subsection to
determine a direct application then, at any time before the person has
determined the application, the Secretary of State may—

109.2.293I.2.a

revoke the person’s appointment;

109.2.293I.2.b

appoint another person to determine the application instead.

109.2.293I.3

A person appointed under this section to determine a direct application has
the same powers and duties that the Secretary of State has under section  293H
.

109.2.293I.4

Where a direct application is determined by a person appointed under this
section, the person’s decision is to be treated as that of the Secretary of
State.

109.2.293I.5

Except as provided by Part 12, the validity of that decision is not to be
questioned in any proceedings whatsoever.

109.2.293I.6

It is not a ground of application to the High Court under section 288 that a
direct application ought to have been determined by the Secretary of State and
not by a person appointed under this section unless the applicant challenges
the person’s power to determine the direct application before the person’s
decision on the direct application is given.

109.2.293I.7

Where any enactment (other than this section and section 319A)—

109.2.293I.7.a

refers (or is to be read as referring) to the Secretary of State in a context
relating to or capable of relating to a direct application (otherwise than by
referring to the application having been made to the Secretary of State), or

109.2.293I.7.b

refers (or is to be read as referring) to anything (other than the making of
the application) done or authorised or required to be done by, to or before
the Secretary of State in connection with any such application,

then, so far as the context permits, the enactment is to be read, in relation
to an application determined or to be determined by a person appointed under
this section, as if the reference to the Secretary of State were or included a
reference to that person.

########### Applications under section 

109.2.293J

109.2.293J.1

The Secretary of State may direct that an application made to the Secretary of
State under section  293D  or  293E  (“a direct application”) is to be
determined by the Secretary of State instead of by a person appointed under
section  293I .

109.2.293J.2

Where a direction is given under subsection  (1) , the Secretary of State must
serve a copy of the direction on—

109.2.293J.2.a

the person, if any, appointed under section  293I  to determine the
application concerned,

109.2.293J.2.b

the applicant, and

109.2.293J.2.c

the local planning authority.

109.2.293J.3

Where a direct application is to be determined by the Secretary of State in
consequence of a direction under subsection  (1) —

109.2.293J.3.a

in determining the application, the Secretary of State may take into account
any report made to the Secretary of State by any person previously appointed
to determine the application, and

109.2.293J.3.b

subject to that, the provisions of the planning Acts which are relevant to the
application apply to it as if section  293I  had never applied to it.

109.2.293J.4

The Secretary of State may by a further direction revoke a direction under
subsection  (1)  at any time before the determination of the direct
application concerned.

109.2.293J.5

Where a direction is given under subsection  (4) , the Secretary of State must
serve a copy of the direction on—

109.2.293J.5.a

the person, if any, previously appointed under section  293I  to determine the
application concerned,

109.2.293J.5.b

the applicant, and

109.2.293J.5.c

the local planning authority.

109.2.293J.6

Where a direction is given under subsection  (4)  in relation to a direct
application—

109.2.293J.6.a

anything done by or on behalf of the Secretary of State in connection with the
application which might have been done by a person appointed under section
293I  to determine the application is, unless the person appointed under
section  293I  to determine the application directs otherwise, to be treated
as having been done by that person, and

109.2.293J.6.b

subject to that, section  293I  applies to the application as if no direction
under subsection (1) had been given in relation to the application.

109.3

Schedule 10  contains consequential amendments.

##### Material variations in planning permission

110

110.1

TCPA 1990 is amended as follows.

110.2

After section 73A insert—

########### Applications for permission not substantially different from existing permission

110.2.73B

110.2.73B.1

An application for planning permission in respect of land in England is to be
determined in accordance with this section if the applicant—

110.2.73B.1.a

requests that it be so determined,

110.2.73B.1.b

makes a proposal as to the conditions (if any) subject to which permission
should be granted, and

110.2.73B.1.c

identifies an existing planning permission by reference to which the
application is to be considered (“the existing permission”).

110.2.73B.2

The existing permission must not have been granted—

110.2.73B.2.a

under section 73, section 73A or this section, or

110.2.73B.2.b

other than on application.

110.2.73B.3

The applicant may also identify, for the purposes of an application to be
determined in accordance with this section, a planning permission—

110.2.73B.3.a

that was granted under section 73 or this section by reference to the existing
permission, or

110.2.73B.3.b

that forms part of a sequence of planning permissions granted under section 73
or this section, the first of which was granted by reference to the existing
permission.

110.2.73B.4

A development order must set out how an applicant is to do as mentioned in
subsections  (1)  and  (3) .

110.2.73B.5

Planning permission may be granted in accordance with this section only if the
local planning authority is satisfied that its effect will not be
substantially different from that of the existing permission.

110.2.73B.6

Planning permission may not be granted in accordance with this section in a
way that differs from the existing permission as to the time by which a
condition requires—

110.2.73B.6.a

development to be started, or

110.2.73B.6.b

an application for approval of reserved matters (within the meaning of section
92) to be made.

110.2.73B.7

In determining an application in accordance with this section, the local
planning authority must limit its consideration to those respects in which the
permission being applied for would, if granted in accordance with the proposal
under subsection  (1) (b) , differ in effect from—

110.2.73B.7.a

the existing permission, and

110.2.73B.7.b

each planning permission (if any) identified in accordance with subsection
(3) .

Section 70(2) is subject to this subsection.

110.2.73B.8

If the local planning authority decides not to grant planning permission in
accordance with this section, it must refuse the application.

110.2.73B.9

For the purposes of this section, the effect of a planning permission is to be
assessed by reference to both the development it authorises and any conditions
to which it is subject.

110.2.73B.10

In assessing the effect of an existing planning permission for the purposes of
subsection  (5)  (but not for the purposes of subsection  (7) ), any change to
the permission made under section 96A is to be disregarded.

110.2.73B.11

The following provisions apply in relation to the condition under paragraph 13
of Schedule 7A (biodiversity gain condition)—

110.2.73B.11.a

nothing in this section authorises the disapplication of the condition;

110.2.73B.11.b

the condition is to be disregarded for the purposes of subsections  (1) (b) ,
(5)  and  (7) ;

110.2.73B.11.c

where—

110.2.73B.11.c.i

the existing planning permission is subject to the condition,

110.2.73B.11.c.ii

a biodiversity gain plan (“the earlier biodiversity gain plan”) was approved
for the purposes of the condition as it attaches to that permission,

110.2.73B.11.c.iii

planning permission is granted in accordance with this section, and

110.2.73B.11.c.iv

that planning permission is consistent with the post-development biodiversity
value of the onsite habitat as specified in the earlier biodiversity gain
plan,

the earlier biodiversity gain plan is to be regarded as approved for the
purposes of the condition as it attaches to the planning permission granted in
accordance with this section.

110.2.73B.12

Nothing in this section authorises the disapplication of the condition under
section 90B (condition relating to development progress reports in England).

110.2.73B.13

In relation to an application for planning permission that is made to, or is
to be determined by, the Secretary of State, a reference in this section to
the local planning authority is to be read as a reference to the Secretary of
State.

110.2.73B.14

The preceding provisions of this section apply in relation to an application
for permission in principle as if—

110.2.73B.14.a

each reference to planning permission were a reference to permission in
principle, and

110.2.73B.14.b

the provisions of this section relating to conditions were omitted.

110.2.73B.15

Permission in principle granted in accordance with this section is to be
taken, for the purposes of section 70(2ZZC), as having come into force when
the existing permission in principle identified under subsection  (1) (c)
came into force.

110.3

In section 62A (applications that may be made directly to the Secretary of
State)—

110.3.a

in subsection (2), after “73(1)” insert  “, an application that is to be
determined in accordance with section  73B ” ;

110.3.b

in subsection (3)(d), after “73(1)” insert  “nor an application that is to be
determined in accordance with section  73B ” .

110.4

In section 70A (power to decline to determine application similar to an
earlier one)—

110.4.a

in subsection (8), for “subsection (9)” substitute  “subsections (9) to (11)”
;

110.4.b

at the end insert—

110.4.b.10

An application that is to be determined in accordance with section  73B  is
not similar to an earlier application that was not determined in accordance
with that section.

110.4.b.11

An application that is to be determined in accordance with section  73B  is
similar to an earlier application that was determined in accordance with that
section only if the local planning authority think that the difference of
effect referred to in subsection  (7)  of that section is (both in kind and in
degree) the same or substantially the same in the case of both applications.

110.5

In section 70B (power to decline to determine application similar to a pending
one)—

110.5.a

in subsection (5), at the beginning insert  “Subject to subsections  (5A)  and
(5B) ,” ;

110.5.b

after subsection (5) insert—

110.5.b.5A

An application that is to be determined in accordance with section  73B  is
not similar to another application that is not to be determined in accordance
with that section.

110.5.b.5B

An application that is to be determined in accordance with section  73B  is
similar to another application that is to be determined in accordance with
that section only if the local planning authority think that the difference of
effect referred to in subsection  (7)  of that section is (both in kind and in
degree) the same or substantially the same in the case of both applications.

##### Development commencement notices

111

111.1

TCPA 1990 is amended as follows.

111.2

After section 93 insert—

########### Commencement of development: England

############ Commencement notices

111.2.93G

111.2.93G.1

This section applies where—

111.2.93G.1.a

planning permission has been granted under section 70 or 73 for the
development of any land in England, and

111.2.93G.1.b

the development is of a prescribed description.

111.2.93G.2

Before the development is begun, the person proposing to carry it out must
give a notice (a “commencement notice”) to the local planning authority
specifying the date on which the person expects the development to be begun.

111.2.93G.3

Once a person has given a commencement notice, the person—

111.2.93G.3.a

may give a further commencement notice substituting a new date for the date
previously given, and

111.2.93G.3.b

must do so if the development is not commenced on the date previously given.

111.2.93G.4

A commencement notice must—

111.2.93G.4.a

include such information as may be prescribed, and

111.2.93G.4.b

be in such form and be given in such manner as may be prescribed.

111.2.93G.5

Where it appears to the local planning authority that a person has failed to
comply with the requirements of subsection  (2)  or  (3) (b) , they may serve
a notice on any relevant person requiring the relevant person to give the
authority such of the information prescribed under subsection  (4) (a)  as the
notice may specify.

111.2.93G.6

In subsection  (5)  “ relevant person ” means—

111.2.93G.6.a

the person to whom the requirements of subsection  (2)  or  (3) (b)  applied,
and

111.2.93G.6.b

any person who is the owner or occupier of the land to which the planning
permission relates or who has any other interest in that land.

111.2.93G.7

A person on whom a notice under subsection  (5)  is served is guilty of an
offence if they fail to give the information required by the notice within the
period of 21 days beginning with the day on which it was served.

111.2.93G.8

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under subsection  (7)  to
prove that they had a reasonable excuse for failing to provide the information
required.

111.2.93G.9

A person guilty of an offence under subsection  (7)  is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

111.2.93G.10

When granting planning permission under section 70 or 73 for the development
of any land in England, a local planning authority must by notice inform the
applicant of—

111.2.93G.10.a

the requirements of subsections  (2)  and  (3) (b) , and

111.2.93G.10.b

the consequences of non-compliance with those requirements.

111.3

In section 56 (time when development begins), in subsection (3), after “92,”
insert  “ 93G ,” .

111.4

In section 69 (register of applications etc)—

111.4.a

in subsection (1), after paragraph (f) (inserted by  section 114 (4) (a) )
insert—

111.4.a.g

commencement notices under section  93G .

;

111.4.b

in subsection (2), after paragraph (c) (inserted by  section 114 (4) (b) )
insert—

111.4.b.d

such information as is prescribed with respect to commencement notices under
section  93G  that are given to the local planning authority.

##### Completion notices

112

112.1

TCPA 1990 is amended as follows.

112.2

After section 93G insert—

########### Termination of planning permission: England

############ Completion notices

112.2.93H

112.2.93H.1

This section applies where—

112.2.93H.1.a

a planning permission relating to land in England is by virtue of section 91
or 92 subject to a condition that the development to which the permission
relates must begin before the expiration of a particular period, and
development has been begun within that period but has not been completed,

112.2.93H.1.b

development has begun in accordance with a simplified planning zone scheme in
England but has not been completed by the time the area ceases to be a
simplified planning zone,

112.2.93H.1.c

development has begun in accordance with planning permission under an
enterprise zone scheme in England but has not been completed by the time the
area ceases to be an enterprise zone,

112.2.93H.1.d

a planning permission under a neighbourhood development order is subject to a
condition that the development to which the permission relates must begin
before the expiration of a particular period, and development has begun within
that period but has not been completed, or

112.2.93H.1.e

a planning permission under a street vote development order is subject to a
condition that the development to which the permission relates must begin
before the expiration of a particular period, and development has begun within
that period but has not been completed.

112.2.93H.2

If the local planning authority are of the opinion that the development will
not be completed within a reasonable period, they may serve a notice (a
“completion notice”) stating that the planning permission will cease to have
effect at a specified time (the “completion notice deadline”).

112.2.93H.3

The completion notice deadline must be—

112.2.93H.3.a

at least 12 months after the completion notice was served, and

112.2.93H.3.b

if the notice was served in a case within subsection  (1) (a)  or  (d)  before
the end of the period referred to in that provision, at least 12 months after
the end of that period.

112.2.93H.4

A completion notice must include—

112.2.93H.4.a

prescribed information in relation to the right of appeal against the notice,
and

112.2.93H.4.b

any other prescribed information.

112.2.93H.5

A completion notice must be served on—

112.2.93H.5.a

the owner of the land,

112.2.93H.5.b

if different, the occupier of the land, and

112.2.93H.5.c

a person not falling within paragraph  (a)  or  (b)  with an interest in the
land, being an interest which, in the opinion of the local planning authority,
is materially affected by the notice.

112.2.93H.6

The local planning authority may withdraw a completion notice at any time
before the completion notice deadline.

112.2.93H.7

If they do so they must immediately give notice of the withdrawal to every
person who was served with the completion notice.

112.2.93H.8

If it appears to the Secretary of State to be expedient that a completion
notice should be served in respect of any land in England, the Secretary of
State may, after consulting the local planning authority, serve such a notice.

############ Appeals against completion notices

112.2.93I

112.2.93I.1

Where a completion notice is served by a local planning authority under
section  93H , any of the following may appeal to the Secretary of State
against it (whether or not the notice was served on them)—

112.2.93I.1.a

the owner of the land,

112.2.93I.1.b

a person not within paragraph  (a)  with an interest in the land, and

112.2.93I.1.c

a person who occupies the land by virtue of a licence.

112.2.93I.2

An appeal may be brought on any of the following grounds—

112.2.93I.2.a

that the appellant considers that the development will be completed within a
reasonable period;

112.2.93I.2.b

that the completion notice deadline is an unreasonable one;

112.2.93I.2.c

that the notice was not served on the persons on whom it was required to be
served under section  93H (5) .

112.2.93I.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations prescribe the procedure which is to
be followed on appeals under this section.

112.2.93I.4

The regulations may in particular include provision—

112.2.93I.4.a

as to the period within which an appeal must be brought;

112.2.93I.4.b

as to how an appeal is made;

112.2.93I.4.c

as to the information to be supplied by the appellant;

112.2.93I.4.d

as to how a local planning authority must respond to an appeal and the
information to be supplied by the authority;

112.2.93I.4.e

for the purpose of securing that the appeal is brought to the attention of
persons in the locality of the development.

112.2.93I.5

On an appeal under this section the Secretary of State may—

112.2.93I.5.a

quash the completion notice,

112.2.93I.5.b

vary the completion notice by substituting a later completion notice deadline,
or

112.2.93I.5.c

uphold the notice with the original completion notice deadline.

112.2.93I.6

On an appeal under this section the Secretary of State may also correct any
defect, error or misdescription in the completion notice if satisfied that the
correction will not cause injustice to the appellant or the local planning
authority.

112.2.93I.7

If, on an appeal made on the ground referred to in subsection  (1) (c) , the
Secretary of State determines that the completion notice was not served on a
person on whom it should have been served, the notice need not be quashed if
it appears to the Secretary of State that neither that person nor the
appellant has been substantially prejudiced by that fact.

112.2.93I.8

Subsection (5) of section 250 of the Local Government Act 1972 (which
authorises a Minister holding an inquiry under that section to make orders
with respect to the costs of the parties) applies in relation to any
proceedings before the Secretary of State on an appeal under this section as
if those proceedings were an inquiry held by the Secretary of State under
section 250.

############ Effect of completion notices

112.2.93J

112.2.93J.1

The planning permission to which a completion notice relates becomes invalid
at the completion notice deadline (whether as originally specified or
substituted on appeal under section  93I ).

112.2.93J.2

Where an appeal is brought under section  93H  the completion notice is of no
effect pending the final determination or withdrawal of the appeal.

112.2.93J.3

Subsection  (1)  does not affect any planning permission so far as relating to
development carried out under it before the completion notice deadline.

112.3

Schedule 11  contains consequential amendments.

112.4

The amendments made by this section and  Schedule 11  apply in relation to
planning permission granted before, as well as to planning permission granted
after, the coming into force of this section.

112.5

But a completion notice may not be served under section 93H of TCPA 1990 in a
case where—

112.5.a

before the coming into force of this section, a completion notice was served
under section 94(2) of TCPA 1990, and

112.5.b

that completion notice is awaiting confirmation under section 95 of TCPA 1990.

##### Power to decline to determine applications in cases of earlier non-implementation etc

113

113.1

TCPA 1990 is amended as follows.

113.2

After section 70C insert—

########### Power to decline to determine applications in cases of earlier non-implementation etc

113.2.70D

113.2.70D.1

A local planning authority in England may decline to determine an application
for planning permission for the development of any land if—

113.2.70D.1.a

the development is development of a prescribed description,

113.2.70D.1.b

the application is made by—

113.2.70D.1.b.i

a person who has previously made an application for planning permission for
development of land all or any part of which is in the local planning
authority’s area at the time the current application is made (“ the earlier
application ”), or

113.2.70D.1.b.ii

a person who has a connection of a prescribed description with the development
to which the earlier application related (“the earlier development”),

113.2.70D.1.c

the earlier development was of a description prescribed under paragraph  (a) ,
and

113.2.70D.1.d

subsection  (2)  or  (3)  applies to the earlier development.

113.2.70D.2

This subsection applies to the earlier development if the earlier development
has not begun.

113.2.70D.3

This subsection applies to the earlier development if—

113.2.70D.3.a

the earlier development has begun but has not been substantially completed,
and

113.2.70D.3.b

the local planning authority is of the opinion that the carrying out of the
earlier development has been unreasonably slow.

113.2.70D.4

In forming an opinion as to whether the carrying out of the earlier
development has been unreasonably slow, the local planning authority must have
regard to all the circumstances, including in particular—

113.2.70D.4.a

in a case where a commencement notice under section 93G has been given,
whether the development—

113.2.70D.4.a.i

was begun by the date specified in the notice, and

113.2.70D.4.a.ii

was carried out in accordance with any timescales specified in it,

113.2.70D.4.b

whether a completion notice was served in respect of the earlier development
under section 93H or (before the coming into force of section 93H) section 94
or 96 and, if so, whether the permission granted became invalid under section
93J or (as the case may be) section 95, and

113.2.70D.4.c

any prescribed circumstances.

113.2.70D.5

Where a person applies to a local planning authority for planning permission
for development of a description prescribed under subsection  (1) (a) , the
authority may by notice require the person to provide such information, being
information of a prescribed description, as the authority may specify in the
notice for the purpose of its functions under this section.

113.2.70D.6

If a person does not comply with a notice under subsection  (5)  within the
period of 21 days beginning with the day on which the notice was served, the
local planning authority may decline to determine the application.

113.2.70D.7

If a person to whom a notice under subsection  (5)  is given—

113.2.70D.7.a

makes a statement purporting to comply with the notice which the person knows
to be false or misleading in a material particular, or

113.2.70D.7.b

recklessly makes such a statement which is false or misleading in a material
particular,

the person is guilty of an offence.

113.2.70D.8

A person guilty of an offence under subsection (7) is liable on summary
conviction to a fine.

113.2.70D.9

Subsection  (1)  does not permit a local planning authority to decline to
determine an application for planning permission to which section 73, 73A or
73B applies.

113.3

In section 56 (time when development begins), in subsection (3), after “61D(5)
and (7),” insert  “70D,” .

113.4

In section 76C (provisions applying to applications under section 62A), in
subsection (1), for “70C” substitute  “70D” .

113.5

In section 78 (right to appeal), in subsection (2)(aa), after “or 70C” insert
“or 70D” .

113.6

In section 174 (appeal against enforcement notice), in subsection (2AA)(b) (as
substituted by  section 118  of this Act), for  “or 70C”  substitute “, 70C or
70D”.

##### Condition relating to development progress reports

114

114.1

TCPA 1990 is amended as follows.

114.2

In section 56(3) (time when development begun), after “89,” insert  “90B,” .

114.3

Before section 91 (including the italic heading before that section) insert—

########### Development progress reports

############ Condition relating to development progress reports in England

114.3.90B

114.3.90B.1

This section applies where relevant planning permission is granted for
relevant residential development in England.

114.3.90B.2

The relevant planning permission must be granted subject to a condition that a
development progress report must be provided to the local planning authority
in whose area the development is to be carried out for each reporting period.

114.3.90B.3

The first reporting period in relation to the development is to be a period—

114.3.90B.3.a

beginning at a prescribed time or by reference to a prescribed event, and

114.3.90B.3.b

during which the development is begun.

114.3.90B.4

A new reporting period is to begin immediately after the end of a reporting
period which is not the last reporting period.

114.3.90B.5

A reporting period which is not the last reporting period is to be a period of
12 months.

114.3.90B.6

The last reporting period is to be a period ending with the day on which the
development is completed (subject to any provision made under  subsection (9)
).

114.3.90B.7

A “ development progress report ”, in relation to relevant residential
development, means a report which sets out—

114.3.90B.7.a

the progress that has been made, and that remains to be made, towards
completing the dwellings the creation of which the development is to involve,
as at the end of the reporting period to which the report relates,

114.3.90B.7.b

the progress which is predicted to be made towards completing those dwellings
over each subsequent reporting period up to and including the last reporting
period, and

114.3.90B.7.c

such other information as may be prescribed in regulations under  subsection
(9) .

114.3.90B.8

If relevant planning permission is granted without the condition required by
subsection (2) , it is to be treated as having been granted subject to that
condition.

114.3.90B.9

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision—

114.3.90B.9.a

about the form and content of development progress reports;

114.3.90B.9.b

about when and how development progress reports are to be provided to local
planning authorities;

114.3.90B.9.c

about who may or must provide development progress reports to local planning
authorities;

114.3.90B.9.d

about the provision of development progress reports and other information to
local planning authorities where there is a change in circumstances in
connection with relevant residential development, such as (for example) where
the development is no longer intended to be completed in accordance with—

114.3.90B.9.d.i

the relevant planning permission;

114.3.90B.9.d.ii

a previous development progress report;

114.3.90B.9.d.iii

any timescales specified in a commencement notice given under section 93G;

114.3.90B.9.e

about when a condition under  subsection (2)  is to be treated as being
discharged;

114.3.90B.9.f

about when relevant residential development is to be treated as being
completed for the purposes of this section.

114.3.90B.10

In this section—

      “ relevant planning permission ” means planning permission other than—
planning permission granted by a development order;           planning
permission granted for development carried out before the grant of that
permission;           planning permission granted for a limited period;
planning permission granted by an enterprise zone scheme;           planning
permission granted by a simplified planning zone scheme;                 “
relevant residential development ” means development which—         involves
the creation of one or more dwellings, and           is of a prescribed
description.

114.4

In section 69 (register of applications etc)—

114.4.a

in subsection (1), after paragraph (e) insert—

114.4.a.f

development progress reports under section 90B;

;

114.4.b

in subsection (2), after paragraph (b) insert—

114.4.b.c

such information as is prescribed with respect to development progress reports
under section 90B that are provided to the local planning authority;

.

114.5

In section 70 (determination of applications: general considerations), in
subsection (1)(a), after “sections” insert  “90B,” .

114.6

In section 73 (determination of applications to develop land after non-
compliance), before subsection (4) insert—

114.6.2E

Nothing in this section authorises the disapplication of the condition under
section 90B (condition relating to development progress reports in England).

114.7

In section 96A (power to make non-material changes to planning permission),
before subsection (4) insert—

114.7.3B

The conditions referred to in subsection (3)(b) do not include the condition
under section 90B (condition relating to development progress reports in
England).

114.8

In section 97 (revocation or modification of planning permission), at the end
insert—

114.8.9

Subsection (1) does not permit the revocation or modification of the condition
under section 90B (condition relating to development progress reports in
England).

114.9

In section 100ZA(13)(c) (restrictions on power to impose planning conditions
in England), as amended by paragraph 3(12) of Schedule 14 to the Environment
Act 2021, at the end insert  “or the condition under section 90B (condition
relating to development progress reports in England)” .

114.10

Until paragraph 3(12) of Schedule 14 to the Environment Act 2021 comes into
force, section 100ZA(13)(c) has effect as if at the end there were inserted
“but do not include the condition under section 90B (condition relating to
development progress reports in England)”.

#### Enforcement of planning controls

##### Time limits for enforcement

115

115.1

In section 171B of TCPA 1990 (time limits), in subsection (1), for the words
from “four years” to the end substitute—

115.1.a

in the case of a breach of planning control in England, ten years beginning
with the date on which the operations were substantially completed, and

115.1.b

in the case of a breach of planning control in Wales, four years beginning
with the date on which the operations were substantially completed.

115.2

In that section, in subsection (2), for the words from “four years” to the end
substitute—

115.2.a

in the case of a breach of planning control in England, ten years beginning
with the date of the breach, and

115.2.b

in the case of a breach of planning control in Wales, four years beginning
with the date of the breach.

##### Duration of temporary stop notices

116

116.1

Section 171E of TCPA 1990 (temporary stop notices) is amended as follows.

116.2

In subsection (7)(a), for “period of 28 days” substitute  “relevant period” .

116.3

After subsection (7) insert—

116.3.8

In subsection (7)(a), “ relevant period ” means—

116.3.8.a

in the case of a notice issued by a local planning authority in England, 56
days;

116.3.8.b

in the case of a notice issued by a local planning authority in Wales, 28
days.

##### Enforcement warning notices

117

117.1

TCPA 1990 is amended as follows.

117.2

In section 171A (expressions used in connection with enforcement), in
subsection (2)—

117.2.a

before paragraph (a) insert—

117.2.a.za

the issue of an enforcement warning notice in relation to land in England
under section  172ZA ;

;

117.2.b

in paragraph (aa), for “(defined in section 173ZA)” substitute  “in relation
to land in Wales under section 173ZA” .

117.3

Before section 172A insert—

########### Enforcement warning notice: England

117.3.172ZA

117.3.172ZA.1

The local planning authority may issue a notice (an “enforcement warning
notice”) where it appears to them that—

117.3.172ZA.1.a

there has been a breach of planning control in respect of any land in England,
and

117.3.172ZA.1.b

there is a reasonable prospect that, if an application for planning permission
in respect of the development concerned were made, planning permission would
be granted.

117.3.172ZA.2

The notice must—

117.3.172ZA.2.a

state the matters that appear to the authority to constitute the breach of
planning control, and

117.3.172ZA.2.b

state that, unless an application for planning permission is made within a
period specified in the notice, further enforcement action may be taken.

117.3.172ZA.3

A copy of the notice must be served—

117.3.172ZA.3.a

on the owner and the occupier of the land to which it relates, and

117.3.172ZA.3.b

on any other person having an interest in the land, being an interest that, in
the opinion of the authority, would be materially affected by the taking of
any further enforcement action.

117.3.172ZA.4

The issue of an enforcement warning notice does not affect any other power
exercisable in respect of any breach of planning control.

117.4

In section 188 (register of enforcement and stop notices and other enforcement
action) in subsection (1)—

117.4.a

after paragraph (za) insert—

117.4.a.zb

to enforcement warning notices under section  172ZA  (enforcement warning
notice: England),

;

117.4.b

in paragraph (aa), at the end insert  “under section 173ZA (enforcement
warning notice: Wales)” .

117.5

In that section, in subsection (2)—

117.5.a

in paragraph (a), for “enforcement warning notice” substitute  “enforcement
warning notice under section  172ZA  or 173ZA” ;

117.5.b

in paragraph (b), after “enforcement notices” insert  “and enforcement warning
notices under section  172ZA ” .

##### Restriction on appeals against enforcement notices

118

In section 174 of TCPA 1990 (appeal against enforcement notice), for
subsections (2A) and (2B) substitute —

118.2A

An appeal may not be brought on the ground specified in subsection (2)(a) if—

118.2A.a

the land to which the enforcement notice relates is in England, and

118.2A.b

the enforcement notice was issued at a time after the making of an application
for planning permission that was related to the enforcement notice.

118.2AA

For the purposes of  subsection (2A) —

118.2AA.a

an application for planning permission for the development of any land is
related to an enforcement notice if granting planning permission for the
development would involve granting planning permission in respect of the
matters specified in the enforcement notice as constituting a breach of
planning control;

118.2AA.b

an application for planning permission that the local planning authority or
the Secretary of State declined to determine under section 70A, 70B or 70C is
to be ignored.

118.2AB

But  subsection (2A)  does not apply if—

118.2AB.a

the application for planning permission has ceased to be under consideration,
and

118.2AB.b

the enforcement notice was issued after the end of the period of two years
beginning with the day on which the application ceased to be under
consideration.

118.2AC

For the purposes of  subsection (2AB) , an application for planning permission
has ceased to be under consideration if—

118.2AC.a

the application was refused, or granted subject to conditions, and, in the
case of an application determined by the local planning authority, the
applicant did not appeal under section 78(1)(a);

118.2AC.b

the applicant did not appeal in the circumstances mentioned in section 78(2)
and the application was not subsequently refused;

118.2AC.c

the applicant appealed under section 78(1)(a) or section 78(2) and—

118.2AC.c.i

the appeal was dismissed,

118.2AC.c.ii

the application was on appeal granted subject to conditions, or subject to
different conditions, or

118.2AC.c.iii

the Secretary of State declined under section 79(6) to determine the appeal.

118.2B

For the purposes of  subsection (2AB) , the day on which the application
ceased to be under consideration is—

118.2B.a

in a case within  subsection (2AC) (a) , the day on which the right to appeal
arose;

118.2B.b

in a case within subsection (2AC)(b), the day after the end of the prescribed
period referred to in section 78(2);

118.2B.c

in a case within  subsection (2AC) (c) (i) , the day on which the appeal was
dismissed;

118.2B.d

in a case within  subsection (2AC) (c) (ii) , the day on which the appeal was
determined;

118.2B.e

in a case within subsection  (2AC) (c) (iii)  relating to an appeal under
section 78(1)(a), the day on which the right to appeal arose;

118.2B.f

in a case within subsection  (2AC) (c) (iii)  relating to an appeal under
section 78(2), the day after the end of the prescribed period referred to in
section 78(2).

##### Undue delays in appeals

119

119.1

TCPA 1990 is amended as follows.

119.2

In section 176 (determination of appeals relating to enforcement notices), at
the end insert—

119.2.6

If at any time before or during the determination of an appeal against an
enforcement notice issued by a local planning authority in England it appears
to the Secretary of State that the appellant is responsible for undue delay in
the progress of the appeal, the Secretary of State may—

119.2.6.a

give the appellant notice that the appeal will be dismissed unless the
appellant takes, within the period specified in the notice, such steps as are
so specified for the expedition of the appeal, and

119.2.6.b

if the appellant fails to take those steps within that period, dismiss the
appeal accordingly.

119.3

In section 195 (appeals relating to certificates of lawfulness), after
subsection (3) insert—

119.3.3A

Where the local planning authority referred to in subsection (1) is in
England, if at any time before or during the determination of an appeal under
subsection (1)(a) or (b) it appears to the Secretary of State that the
appellant is responsible for undue delay in the progress of the appeal, the
Secretary of State may—

119.3.3A.a

give the appellant notice that the appeal will be dismissed unless the
appellant takes, within the period specified in the notice, such steps as are
so specified for the expedition of the appeal, and

119.3.3A.b

if the appellant fails to take those steps within that period, dismiss the
appeal accordingly.

119.4

In Schedule 6 (determination of certain appeals by person appointed by
Secretary of State), in paragraph 2 (powers and duties of appointed person)—

119.4.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(b) for “and (5)” substitute  “, (5) and (6)” ;

119.4.b

in sub-paragraph (1)(c), for “and (3)” substitute  “, (3) and (3A)” .

##### Penalties for non-compliance

120

120.1

In section 187A of TCPA 1990 (enforcement of conditions), in subsection (12),
for the words from “to a fine” to the end substitute—

120.1.a

to a fine, if the land is in England, or

120.1.b

to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale, if the land is in
Wales.

120.2

In section 216 of TCPA 1990 (penalty for non-compliance with section 215
notice)—

120.2.a

in subsection (2), for the words from “to a fine” to the end substitute—

120.2.a.a

to a fine, if the land is England, or

120.2.a.b

to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale, if the land is in
Wales.

;

120.2.b

in subsection (6), for “one-tenth of level 3 on the standard scale” substitute
“the relevant amount” ;

120.2.c

after subsection (6) insert—

120.2.c.6A

In subsection (6) “ the relevant amount ” means—

120.2.c.6A.a

if the land is in England, one-tenth of the greater of—

120.2.c.6A.a.i

£5000, or

120.2.c.6A.a.ii

level 4 on the standard scale;

120.2.c.6A.b

if the land is in Wales, one-tenth of level 3 on the standard scale.

##### Power to provide relief from enforcement of planning conditions

121

After section 196D of TCPA 1990 insert—

######### Relief from enforcement

########## Power to provide relief from enforcement of planning conditions

121.196E

121.196E.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that a local planning
authority in England may not take, or is subject to specified restrictions in
how it may take, relevant enforcement measures in relation to any actual or
apparent failure to comply with a relevant planning condition.

121.196E.2

The Secretary of State may make regulations under subsection  (1)  only if the
Secretary of State considers that it is appropriate to make the regulations
for the purposes of national defence or preventing or responding to civil
emergency or significant disruption to the economy of the United Kingdom or
any part of the United Kingdom.

121.196E.3

The power in  subsection (1)  may only be exercised in respect of an actual or
apparent failure which occurs during a specified period of not more than one
year (the “relief period”) or which is apprehended during the relief period to
so occur (but see subsections  (7)  and  (8) ).

121.196E.4

A “relevant enforcement measure” is anything which may be done by a local
planning authority in England for the purposes of investigating, preventing,
remedying or penalising an actual or apparent failure to comply with a
relevant planning condition.

121.196E.5

A relevant enforcement measure includes, in particular—

121.196E.5.a

the exercise of a power under—

121.196E.5.a.i

section 171BA (power to apply for planning enforcement order);

121.196E.5.a.ii

section 187B (power to apply to court for injunction);

121.196E.5.a.iii

section 196A (power to enter without a warrant);

121.196E.5.a.iv

section 196B (power to apply for, and enter under, warrant);

121.196E.5.b

the issue of—

121.196E.5.b.i

a planning contravention notice under section 171C,

121.196E.5.b.ii

a temporary stop notice under section 171E,

121.196E.5.b.iii

an enforcement notice under section 172,

121.196E.5.b.iv

an enforcement warning notice under section 172ZA,

121.196E.5.b.v

a stop notice under section 183, or

121.196E.5.b.vi

a breach of condition notice under section 187A.

121.196E.6

A “relevant planning condition” is a condition or limitation subject to which
planning permission for development of land in England is granted, but does
not include a condition under—

121.196E.6.a

section 90A and Schedule 7A (condition relating to biodiversity gain);

121.196E.6.b

section 90B (condition relating to development progress reports);

121.196E.6.c

section 91 (condition limiting duration of planning permission);

121.196E.6.d

section 92 (conditions for outline planning permission).

121.196E.7

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may make provision as to the treatment of
an actual or apparent failure to comply with a relevant planning condition,
which—

121.196E.7.a

starts before, but continues after, the start of the relief period, or

121.196E.7.b

starts during, but continues after, that period.

121.196E.8

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may provide that an actual or apparent
failure to comply with a relevant planning condition is not to be treated as
occurring during the relief period, if the failure—

121.196E.8.a

occurs wholly during the period, and

121.196E.8.b

is not remedied by a specified time after the period.

121.196E.9

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may make provision that, where anything
relating to the taking of a relevant enforcement measure is to be or may be
done by a time during the relief period, it is to be or may be instead done by
a specified time after that period.

121.196E.10

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may—

121.196E.10.a

apply in relation to all, or only specified, local planning authorities in
England;

121.196E.10.b

apply in relation to all, or only specified, relevant planning conditions;

121.196E.10.c

apply in relation to all, or only specified, relevant enforcement measures;

121.196E.10.d

prevent the taking of relevant enforcement measures indefinitely or only for a
specified period of time.

121.196E.11

In this section, “ specified ” means specified or described in regulations
under  subsection (1) .

#### Other provision

##### Consultation before applying for planning permission

122

In section 122 of the Localism Act 2011 (consultation before applying for
planning permission in England), omit subsections (3) and (4) (which provide
for the expiry of sections 61W to 61Y of TCPA 1990).

##### Duty in relation to self-build and custom housebuilding

123

123.1

In section 2A of the Self-build and Custom Housebuilding Act 2015 (duty to
grant planning permissions etc)—

123.1.a

in subsection (2)—

123.1.a.i

omit “suitable”;

123.1.a.ii

for “in respect of enough serviced plots” substitute  “for the carrying out of
self-build and custom housebuilding on enough serviced plots” ;

123.1.a.iii

for “arising in” substitute  “in respect of” ;

123.1.b

after subsection (5) insert—

123.1.b.5A

Regulations may make provision specifying descriptions of planning permissions
or permissions in principle that are, or are not, to be treated as development
permission for the carrying out of self-build and custom housebuilding for the
purposes of this section.

;

123.1.c

in subsection (6), for paragraph (a) substitute—

123.1.c.a

the demand for self-build and custom housebuilding in an authority’s area in
respect of a base period is the aggregate of—

123.1.c.a.i

the demand for self-build and custom housebuilding arising in the authority’s
area in the base period; and

123.1.c.a.ii

any demand for self-build and custom housebuilding that arose in the
authority’s area in an earlier base period and in relation to which—

123.1.c.a.ii.A

the time allowed for complying with the duty in subsection (2) expired during
the base period in question, and

123.1.c.a.ii.B

the duty in subsection (2) has not been met;

123.1.c.aa

the demand for self-build and custom housebuilding arising in an authority’s
area in a base period is evidenced by the number of entries added during that
period to the register under section 1 kept by the authority;

;

123.1.d

omit subsection (6)(c);

123.1.e

in subsection (9)(b), for “arising in” substitute  “in respect of” .

123.2

In section 4 of the Self-build and Custom Housebuilding Act 2015
(regulations), in subsection (2), before paragraph (za) insert—

123.2.zza

section 2A(5A),

.

##### Powers as to form and content of planning applications

124

124.1

Before section 327A of TCPA 1990 insert—

########### Planning applications in England: powers as to form and content

124.1.327ZA

124.1.327ZA.1

Subsections  (2)  to  (3)  apply to a relevant power to make provision about—

124.1.327ZA.1.a

the form or manner in which a planning application is to be made, or

124.1.327ZA.1.b

the form or manner in which an associated document is to be provided.

124.1.327ZA.2

The power includes power to make provision requiring or allowing the
application to be made, or the associated document to be provided—

124.1.327ZA.2.a

by particular electronic means, or

124.1.327ZA.2.b

by electronic means that satisfy particular technical standards or
specifications.

124.1.327ZA.3

The power includes power to make provision requiring or allowing the authority
to which a planning application is (or is to be) made to waive a requirement
of a sort described in subsection  (2) .

124.1.327ZA.4

Subsection  (5)  applies to a relevant power to make provision about the
content of a planning application or associated document.

124.1.327ZA.5

The power includes power to make provision requiring the application or
associated document, or any particular content of it, to be prepared or
endorsed by a person with particular qualifications or experience.

124.1.327ZA.6

Subsection  (7)  applies to any power within subsection  (1)  or  (4) .

124.1.327ZA.7

The power may be exercised by making provision referring (and giving effect)
to such material of a particular description as is published from time to time
by the Secretary of State on a government website together with a statement
that it has effect for the purposes of the provision in question.

124.1.327ZA.8

Provision that may be made by virtue of subsection  (7)  includes, for
example, provision requiring or allowing a planning application to be made (or
an associated document to be provided) using such a form, or in accordance
with such specifications, as are published from time to time as mentioned in
that subsection.

124.1.327ZA.9

In this section, a “relevant power to make provision” about a certain matter
is a power of the Secretary of State under this Act to make subordinate
provision about that matter, if and so far as the power is exercisable in
relation to England.

124.1.327ZA.10

It is irrelevant for the purposes of subsection  (9)  in what terms a power is
conferred (and, in particular, whether it relates specifically to the matter
in question or is a more general power capable of exercise in relation to that
matter).

124.1.327ZA.11

In this section—

      “ associated document ” means any document or other material that—
accompanies, relates to, or is or is to be subject of, a planning application,
and           is required by or under this Act to be provided by or on behalf
of the person making the application;                 “ planning application ”
means—         an application under, or for the purposes of, any provision of
Part 3 or 8 of this Act or any subordinate provision made under that Part, or
an application under section 191 or 192,         but does not include an
application made in legal proceedings;           “ provided ” includes
prepared, submitted, issued, served, notified and published;           “
subordinate provision ” means provision in an order or in regulations.

124.2

In section 62(2A) of TCPA 1990 (powers relating to applications for planning
permission to include certain applications under conditions), before paragraph
(a) insert—

124.2.za

applications for any consent, agreement or approval required by a condition
under section 61C(1)(b),

.

124.3

In paragraph 14 of Schedule 7A to TCPA 1990 (biodiversity gain plans) at the
end insert—

124.3.4

Section  327ZA  applies to the power conferred by sub-paragraph (3) as if a
biodiversity gain plan were an “associated document” within the meaning of
that section.

124.4

In section 17 of the Listed Buildings Act (conditions of listed building
consent), after subsection (3) insert—

124.4.4

Regulations under this Act in relation to England may, in relation to
applications made pursuant to a condition attached to listed building consent,
make any provision corresponding to provision that may be made in relation to
applications for such consent under section 10(3).

124.5

In section 89 of the Listed Buildings Act (application of general provisions
of TCPA 1990)—

124.5.a

in subsection (1), after the entry for section 323A insert—

      section  327ZA  (powers as to form and content of applications in
England);

;

124.5.b

before subsection (1A) insert—

124.5.b.1ZC

In section  327ZA  of the principal Act as applied by this section, references
to a planning application are to be read as references to an application
under, or for the purposes of, any provision of Chapter 2 of Part 1 of this
Act or any subordinate provision made under that Chapter (but are not to be
read as including an application made in legal proceedings).

124.6

In section 10 of the Hazardous Substances Act (conditions of hazardous
substance consent), after subsection (3) insert—

124.6.4

Regulations in relation to England may, in relation to applications made
pursuant to a condition attached to hazardous substance consent, make any
provision corresponding to provision that may be made in relation to
applications for such consent under section 7.

124.7

In section 37 of the Hazardous Substances Act (application of general
provisions of TCPA 1990)—

124.7.a

in subsection (2), after the entry for section 323A insert—

      section  327ZA  (powers as to form and content of applications in
England);

;

124.7.b

at the end insert—

124.7.b.5

In section  327ZA  of the principal Act as applied by this section, references
to a planning application are to be read as references to an application
under, or for the purposes of, any provision of this Act or any subordinate
provision made under this Act (but are not to be read as including an
application made in legal proceedings).

##### Additional powers in relation to planning obligations

125

In section 106A of TCPA 1990 (modification and discharge of planning
obligations), after subsection (9) insert—

125.9A

Regulations may make provision for, or in connection with—

125.9A.a

requirements which must be met in order for a planning obligation in respect
of land in England to be modified or discharged; and

125.9A.b

circumstances in which a planning obligation in respect of land in England may
not be modified or discharged.

##### Fees for certain services in relation to nationally significant infrastructure projects

126

126.1

After section 54 of the Planning Act 2008 (rights of entry: Crown land)
insert—

########### Fees

############ Power to provide for fees for certain services in relation to nationally significant infrastructure projects

126.1.54A

126.1.54A.1

The Secretary of State may make regulations for and in connection with the
charging of fees by prescribed public authorities in relation to the provision
of relevant services.

126.1.54A.2

A “ relevant service ” means any advice, information or other assistance
(including a response to a consultation) provided in connection with—

126.1.54A.2.a

an application or proposed application—

126.1.54A.2.a.i

for an order granting development consent, or

126.1.54A.2.a.ii

to make a change to, or revoke, such an order, or

126.1.54A.2.b

any other prescribed matter relating to nationally significant infrastructure
projects.

126.1.54A.3

The regulations under  subsection (1)  may in particular make provision—

126.1.54A.3.a

about when a fee (including a supplementary fee) may, and may not, be charged;

126.1.54A.3.b

about the amount which may be charged;

126.1.54A.3.c

about what may, and may not, be taken into account in calculating the amount
charged;

126.1.54A.3.d

about who is liable to pay a fee charged;

126.1.54A.3.e

about when a fee charged is payable;

126.1.54A.3.f

about the recovery of fees charged;

126.1.54A.3.g

about waiver, reduction or repayment of fees;

126.1.54A.3.h

about the effect of paying or failing to pay fees charged (including provision
permitting a public authority prescribed under  subsection (1)  to withhold a
relevant service that they would otherwise be required to provide under an
enactment until any outstanding fees for that service are paid);

126.1.54A.3.i

for the supply of information for any purpose of the regulations;

126.1.54A.3.j

conferring a function, including a function involving the exercise of a
discretion, on any person.

126.1.54A.4

A public authority prescribed under  subsection (1)  must have regard to any
guidance published by the Secretary of State in relation to the exercise of
its functions under the regulations.

126.1.54A.5

In this section, “ public authority ” means any person certain of whose
functions are of a public nature.

##### Power to shorten deadline for examination of development consent order applications

127

127.1

Section 98 of the Planning Act 2008 (timetable for examining, and reporting
on, application for development consent order) is amended as follows.

127.2

After subsection (4) insert—

127.2.4A

The Secretary of State may set a date for a deadline under subsection (1) that
is earlier than the date for the time being set.

127.3

In subsection (6), after “subsection (4)” insert  “or (4A)” .

##### Additional powers in relation to non-material changes to development consent orders

128

In paragraph 2 of Schedule 6 to the Planning Act 2008 (non-material changes),
after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

128.1A

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about—

128.1A.a

the decision-making process in relation to the exercise of the power conferred
by sub-paragraph (1);

128.1A.b

the making of the decision as to whether to exercise that power;

128.1A.c

the effect of a decision to exercise that power.

This is subject to sub-paragraph (2).

128.1B

The power to make regulations under sub-paragraph  (1A)  includes power to
allow a person to exercise a discretion.

##### Hazardous substances consent: connected applications to the Secretary of State

129

In section 62A of TCPA 1990 (when application may be made directly to the
Secretary of State), in subsection (3)(a)—

129.a

in sub-paragraph (i) omit “or”;

129.b

after that sub-paragraph insert—

129.b.ia

an application for hazardous substances consent under the Planning (Hazardous
Substances) Act 1990, or

.

##### Regulations and orders under the Planning Acts

130

130.1

In section 333 of TCPA 1990 (regulations and orders)—

130.1.a

after subsection (2A) insert—

130.1.a.2B

Regulations made under this Act may make consequential, supplementary,
incidental, transitional, transitory or saving provision.

;

130.1.b

after subsection (7) insert—

130.1.b.8

Orders made under this Act by statutory instrument may make consequential,
supplementary, incidental, transitional, transitory or saving provision.

130.2

In section 238 of TCPA 1990 (consecrated land), in subsection (5)(c), for the
words from “contain” to the end substitute  “in particular by virtue of
section 333(2B) include provision as to the closing of registers” .

130.3

In TCPA 1990, omit the following—

130.3.a

section 61Z2(3);

130.3.b

section 106ZB(2)(a);

130.3.c

in section 116(2), the words “and incidental or supplementary provision”;

130.3.d

section 202G(4);

130.3.e

section 303(6)(a);

130.3.f

section 303ZA(4)(a);

130.3.g

section 319A(10)(a);

130.3.h

section 319B(10)(a);

130.3.i

in Schedule 4D, paragraph 1(3).

130.4

In section 93 of the Listed Buildings Act (regulations and orders), for
subsection (6) substitute—

130.4.6

Regulations made under this Act and orders made under this Act by statutory
instrument may make consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional,
transitory or saving provision.

130.5

In the Listed Buildings Act, omit the following—

130.5.a

section 88D(9)(a);

130.5.b

section 88E(9)(a).

130.6

In section 40 of the Hazardous Substances Act (regulations)—

130.6.a

in the heading, after “Regulations” insert  “and orders” ;

130.6.b

after subsection (4) insert—

130.6.b.5

Regulations made under this Act and orders made under this Act by statutory
instrument may make consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional,
transitory or saving provision.

130.7

In section 5 of the Hazardous Substances Act (power to prescribe hazardous
substances), in subsection (3), for “to make such transitional provision”
substitute  “under section 40(5) for regulations under this section to make
transitional provision” .

130.8

In the Hazardous Substances Act, omit the following—

130.8.a

section 21A(9)(a);

130.8.b

section 21B(9)(a).

##### Power for appointees to vary determinations as to procedure

131

In paragraph 2 of Schedule 6 to TCPA 1990 (powers and duties of appointed
persons), in sub-paragraph (10)—

131.a

for “does not apply” substitute  “applies” ;

131.b

at the end insert  “only for the purposes of subsection (4) of that section” .

##### Pre-consolidation amendment of planning, development and compulsory purchase legislation

132

132.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make such amendments and
modifications of the relevant enactments as in the Secretary of State’s
opinion facilitate, or are otherwise desirable in connection with, the
consolidation of some or all of those enactments.

132.2

“ Relevant enactments ” means—

132.2.a

the enactments listed in  subsection (3) , and

132.2.b

any other enactments, whenever passed or made, so far as relating to—

132.2.b.i

planning or development, or

132.2.b.ii

the compulsory purchase of land (including compensation for such purchases).

132.3

The enactments referred to in  subsection (2) (a)  are—

      the Land Clauses Consolidation Act 1845;           the Railway Clauses
Consolidation Act 1845;           sections 9, 13, 76 and 77 of the National
Parks and Access to the Countryside Act 1949;           the Land Compensation
Act 1961;           the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965;           the
Agriculture Act 1967;           the Civic Amenities Act 1967;           the
Land Compensation Act 1973;           sections 13 to 16 of (and Schedule 1 to)
the Local Government (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1976;           Parts 13,
14, 16 and 18 of the Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980;
the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981;           the
Acquisition of Land Act 1981;           the New Towns Act 1981;           Part
3 of the Housing Act 1988;           TCPA 1990;           the Listed Buildings
Act;           the Hazardous Substances Act;           the Planning and
Compensation Act 1991;           Part 3 and section 96 of (and Schedule 14 to)
the Environment Act 1995;           GLAA 1999;           PCPA 2004;
the Planning Act 2008;           the Planning and Energy Act 2008;
Chapter 3 of Part 5, Part 6 and Chapter 2 of Part 8 of the Localism Act 2011;
Parts 6 and 7 of the Housing and Planning Act 2016;           section 15 of
the Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017;           Parts  3  to  9  of this Act.

132.4

For the purposes of this section, “ amend ” includes repeal and revoke (and
similar terms are to be read accordingly).

132.5

Subsection  (6)  applies where, in the Secretary of State’s opinion, an
amendment or modification made by regulations under this section facilitates
or is otherwise desirable in connection with the consolidation of certain
relevant enactments.

132.6

The regulations must provide that the amendment or modification comes into
force immediately before an Act consolidating those relevant enactments comes
into force.

132.7

Regulations under this section must not make any provision which is within—

132.7.a

Scottish devolved legislative competence,

132.7.b

Welsh devolved legislative competence, or

132.7.c

Northern Ireland devolved legislative competence,

unless that provision is a restatement of provision or is merely incidental
to, or consequential on, provision that would be outside that legislative
competence.

132.8

For the purposes of  subsection (7) —

132.8.a

provision is within “Scottish devolved legislative competence” where, if it
were included in an Act of the Scottish Parliament, it would be within the
legislative competence of that Parliament;

132.8.b

provision is within “Welsh devolved legislative competence” where, if it were
included in an Act of Senedd Cymru, it would be within the legislative
competence of the Senedd (including any provision that could be made only with
the consent of a Minister of the Crown);

132.8.c

provision is within “Northern Ireland devolved legislative competence” where
the provision—

132.8.c.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly,
if it were included in an Act of that Assembly, and

132.8.c.ii

would not, if it were included in a Bill for an Act of the Northern Ireland
Assembly, result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State.

132.9

In this section “ Minister of the Crown ” has the same meaning as in the
Ministers of the Crown Act 1975.

##### Participation in certain proceedings conducted by, or on behalf of, the Secretary of State

133

133.1

The Secretary of State may, to the extent not otherwise able to do so, require
or permit a person who takes part in relevant proceedings conducted by the
Secretary of State to do so (wholly or partly) remotely.

133.2

The references in  subsection (1)  to the Secretary of State include
references to a person appointed by the Secretary of State.

133.3

“ Relevant proceedings ” means any inquiry, hearing, examination, meeting or
other proceedings under an Act (whenever passed or made) which relate to
planning, development or the compulsory purchase of land.

133.4

Relevant proceedings include, in particular—

133.4.a

any proceedings to which section 319A of TCPA 1990 applies (see subsections
(7) to (10) of that section);

133.4.b

any proceedings under section 20 of, or paragraph 6 of Schedule 3 to, the
Listed Buildings Act;

133.4.c

any proceedings under section 21 of, or paragraph 6 of the Schedule to, the
Hazardous Substances Act;

133.4.d

any proceedings under section 13A of, or paragraph 4A of Schedule 1 to, the
Acquisition of Land Act 1981;

133.4.e

any proceedings under Part 10A or Part 11 of the Planning Act 2008;

133.4.f

an examination under Part 2 of PCPA 2004;

133.4.g

an examination under Chapter 2 or 3 of Part 6 of the Planning Act 2008
(including any meetings under Chapter 4 of that Part) in relation to an
application for an order granting development consent;

133.4.h

an examination under Schedule 4B to the TCPA 1990 in relation to a draft
neighbourhood development order.

133.5

For the purposes of this section a person takes part in relevant proceedings
remotely if they take part through—

133.5.a

a live telephone link,

133.5.b

a live television link, or

133.5.c

any other arrangement which does not involve the person attending the
proceedings in person.

##### Power of certain bodies to charge fees for advice in relation to applications under the Planning Acts

134

After section 303ZA of the TCPA 1990 (fees for appeals) insert—

######### Power of certain bodies to charge fees for advice in relation to applications under the planning Acts

134.303ZB

134.303ZB.1

A prescribed body may charge fees for the provision of advice, information or
assistance (including the provision of a response to a consultation) in
connection with an application within  subsection (2)  that relates to land in
England.

134.303ZB.2

An application is within this subsection if it is an application, proposed
application or proposal for a permission, approval or consent under, or for
the purposes of, the planning Acts.

134.303ZB.3

A prescribed body may not charge fees under  subsection (1)  in respect of—

134.303ZB.3.a

a response to a consultation that a qualifying neighbourhood body is required
to carry out under an enactment;

134.303ZB.3.b

the provision of prescribed advice, information or assistance or advice,
information or assistance of a prescribed description.

134.303ZB.4

In subsection  (3) (a) , a “ qualifying neighbourhood body ” means—

134.303ZB.4.a

a qualifying body within the meaning given by section 61E(6) (and includes a
community organisation which is to be regarded as such a qualifying body by
virtue of paragraph 4(2) of Schedule 4C), or

134.303ZB.4.b

a qualifying body within the meaning given by section 38A(12) of the Planning
and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004.

134.303ZB.5

A prescribed body may charge fees under  subsection (1)  only in accordance
with a statement published on its website which—

134.303ZB.5.a

describes the advice, information or assistance in respect of which fees are
charged,

134.303ZB.5.b

sets out the fees (or, if applicable, the method by which the fees are to be
calculated), and

134.303ZB.5.c

refers to any provision in an enactment pursuant to which the advice,
information or assistance is provided.

134.303ZB.6

Subsections  (7)  and  (8)  apply where a prescribed body decides to charge
fees under  subsection (1)  for advice, information or assistance which the
body provides pursuant to a provision in an enactment.

134.303ZB.7

If a person fails to pay the fee charged under  subsection (1) , the
prescribed body may, notwithstanding any requirement to provide the advice,
information or assistance, withhold the advice, information or assistance
until the fee is paid.

134.303ZB.8

The prescribed body must secure that, taking one financial year with another,
the income from the fees charged under  subsection (1)  does not exceed the
cost of providing the advice, information or assistance.

134.303ZB.9

A financial year is the period of 12 months beginning with 1 April.

134.303ZB.10

Before making regulations under this section, the Secretary of State must
consult—

134.303ZB.10.a

any body likely to be affected by the regulations, and

134.303ZB.10.b

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

134.303ZB.11

In this section, “fees” include charges (however described).

##### Biodiversity net gain: pre-development biodiversity value and habitat enhancement

135

In Schedule 7A to the TCPA 1990 (biodiversity gain in England)—

135.a

in paragraph 5(4), after “6” insert  “, 6A, 6B” ;

135.b

after paragraph 6 insert—

135.b.6A

If—

135.b.6A.a

a person carries on activities on land on or after 25 August 2023 in
accordance with a planning permission (other than the planning permission
referred to in paragraph 5(1)),

135.b.6A.b

on the relevant date, development for which that other planning permission was
granted—

135.b.6A.b.i

has not been begun, or

135.b.6A.b.ii

has been begun but has not been completed, and

135.b.6A.c

as a result of the activities the biodiversity value of the onsite habitat
referred to in paragraph 5(1) is lower on the relevant date than it would
otherwise have been,

the pre-development biodiversity value of the onsite habitat is to be taken to
be its biodiversity value immediately before the carrying on of the
activities.

135.b.6B

135.b.6B.1

This paragraph applies where there is insufficient evidence of the
biodiversity value of an onsite habitat immediately before the carrying on of
the activities referred to in paragraph 6 or 6A.

135.b.6B.2

The biodiversity value of the onsite habitat immediately before the carrying
on of the activities referred to in paragraph 6 or 6A is to be taken to be the
highest biodiversity value of the onsite habitat which is reasonably supported
by any available evidence relating to the onsite habitat.

;

135.c

in paragraph 10—

135.c.i

in sub-paragraph (1), after “habitat enhancement” insert  “of an offsite
habitat” ;

135.c.ii

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

135.c.ii.1A

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1) (and without prejudice to paragraphs 3
and 4(1)), a habitat enhancement is calculated as the amount by which the
projected value of the offsite habitat as at the end of the maintenance period
referred to in section 100(2)(b) of the Environment Act 2021 exceeds its pre-
enhancement biodiversity value.

135.c.ii.1B

The pre-enhancement biodiversity value of an offsite habitat is the
biodiversity value of the offsite habitat on the relevant date.

135.c.ii.1C

The relevant date is—

135.c.ii.1C.a

the date on which the application is made to register the land subject to the
habitat enhancement in the biodiversity gain site register, or

135.c.ii.1C.b

such other date as may be specified in the conservation covenant or planning
obligation.

135.c.ii.1D

But if—

135.c.ii.1D.a

a person carries on activities on an offsite habitat on or after 25 August
2023 otherwise than in accordance with—

135.c.ii.1D.a.i

planning permission, or

135.c.ii.1D.a.ii

any other permission of a kind specified by the Secretary of State by
regulations, and

135.c.ii.1D.b

as a result of the activities the biodiversity value of the offsite habitat is
lower on the relevant date than it would otherwise have been,

the pre-enhancement biodiversity value of the offsite habitat is to be taken
to be its biodiversity value immediately before the carrying on of the
activities.

;

135.d

in paragraph 12(1), after the definition of “onsite habitat” insert—

      “ offsite habitat ” means habitat which is not onsite habitat.

##### Development affecting ancient woodland

136

136.1

Before the end of the period of three months beginning with the day on which
this Act is passed, the Secretary of State must vary the Town and Country
Planning (Consultation) (England) Direction 2021 (“the 2021 Direction”) so
that it applies in relation to applications for planning permission for
development affecting ancient woodland.

136.2

In subsection (1) “ ancient woodland ” means an area in England which has been
continuously wooded since at least the end of the year 1600 A.D.

136.3

This section does not affect whether or how the Secretary of State may
withdraw or vary the 2021 Direction after it has been varied as mentioned in
subsection (1).

### Infrastructure Levy and Community Infrastructure Levy

#### Infrastructure Levy: England

137

Schedule 12  makes provision for, and in connection with, the imposition, in
England, of a charge to be known as Infrastructure Levy.

#### Power to designate Homes and Communities Agency as a charging authority

138

In section 14 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 (contents of
designation orders), after subsection (6) insert—

138.6A

The order may provide that where the HCA is the local planning authority for
the whole or any part of the designated area it is to be a charging authority
under section 204B(3)(b) of the Planning Act 2008 (Infrastructure Levy) for
the whole or any part of that area—

138.6A.a

for all or specified purposes,

138.6A.b

in relation to all or specified kinds of development, and

138.6A.c

in place of any person or body who would otherwise be the charging authority
for that area, for those purposes, and in relation to those kinds of
development.

#### Restriction of Community Infrastructure Levy to Greater London and Wales

139

139.1

Part 11 of the Planning Act 2008 (Community Infrastructure Levy) is amended as
follows.

139.2

In the Part heading, at the end insert  “: Greater London and Wales” .

139.3

In section 205 (the levy)—

139.3.a

in subsection (1), after “imposition” insert  “, in Greater London and Wales,”
;

139.3.b

in subsection (3), in the Table, omit the second entry.

139.4

In section 206 (the charge)—

139.4.a

in subsection (1), after “A charging authority” insert  “in Greater London or
Wales” ;

139.4.b

for subsection (3) substitute—

139.4.b.3

The Mayor of London is the charging authority for Greater London.

;

139.4.c

in subsection (4)—

139.4.c.i

in the words before paragraph (a), for “, or in the case of Greater London one
of the charging authorities,” substitute  “in Wales” ;

139.4.c.ii

in the words before paragraph (a), omit “, (3)(b) or (c)”;

139.4.c.iii

in paragraph (a), at the end insert  “in Wales, and” ;

139.4.c.iv

omit paragraphs (c) to (e);

139.4.d

in subsection (5)—

139.4.d.i

omit paragraph (a) (together with the “and” at the end of that paragraph);

139.4.d.ii

in paragraph (b) omit “in relation to Wales”;

139.4.e

omit subsection (6).

139.5

Omit section 207 (joint committees).

139.6

In section 223(1) (relationship with other powers), before paragraph (a)
insert—

139.6.za

Part 10A (Infrastructure Levy: England) (including any power conferred by IL
regulations under that Part),

.

#### Enforcement of Community Infrastructure Levy

140

140.1

In section 218 of the Planning Act 2008 (enforcement), for subsections (11)
and (12) substitute—

140.1.11

Regulations under this section creating a criminal offence may not provide
for—

140.1.11.a

imprisonment for a term exceeding the maximum term for summary offences, on
summary conviction for an offence triable summarily only,

140.1.11.b

imprisonment for a term exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court,
on summary conviction for an offence triable either way, or

140.1.11.c

imprisonment for a term exceeding 2 years, on conviction on indictment.

140.1.12

In subsection  (11) (a) , “ the maximum term for summary offences ” means—

140.1.12.a

in relation to an offence committed before the time when section 281(5) of the
Criminal Justice Act 2003 comes into force, 6 months;

140.1.12.b

in relation to an offence committed after that time, 51 weeks.

### Community land auction pilots

#### Community land auction arrangements

##### Community land auction arrangements and their purpose

141

141.1

In making CLA regulations the Secretary of State must aim to ensure that the
overall purpose of community land auction arrangements is to ensure that costs
incurred in—

141.1.a

supporting the development of an area, and

141.1.b

achieving any purpose specified under  section 143 (7) , section  144 (3)  or
section 145 (3) ,

can be funded (wholly or partly) by owners or developers of land.

141.2

“ CLA regulations ” means regulations made under this Part by the Secretary of
State.

141.3

A “ community land auction arrangement ” means an arrangement provided for in
CLA regulations under which—

141.3.a

a local planning authority is to invite anyone who has a freehold or leasehold
interest in land in the authority’s area to offer to grant a CLA option over
the land, with a view to the land being allocated for development in the next
local plan for the authority’s area,

141.3.b

any CLA option granted under the arrangement ceases to have effect if the land
subject to the option is not so allocated when that plan is adopted or
approved (unless the option has already been exercised or been withdrawn or
otherwise ceased to have effect), and

141.3.c

the local planning authority may—

141.3.c.i

exercise the CLA option and dispose of the interest in the land to a person
who proposes to develop the land,

141.3.c.ii

exercise the CLA option with a view to developing the land itself, or

141.3.c.iii

dispose of the CLA option to a person who proposes to exercise it and then
develop the land.

141.4

A “ CLA option ”, in relation to land, means an option to acquire a freehold
or leasehold interest in the land which—

141.4.a

subject to CLA regulations under paragraph  (c) , can be—

141.4.a.i

exercised by the local planning authority in whose area the land is situated,
or

141.4.a.ii

disposed of by that authority to any other person, on such terms as the
authority considers appropriate,

141.4.b

is granted under a community land auction arrangement, and

141.4.c

meets any requirements imposed by CLA regulations.

141.5

CLA regulations under subsection  (4) (c)  may, in particular, include
provision about—

141.5.a

how long a CLA option must be capable of being exercised for;

141.5.b

when, or the circumstances in which, a CLA option may or must be capable of
being exercised;

141.5.c

when, or the circumstances in which, a CLA option may or must cease to have
effect;

141.5.d

when, or the circumstances in which, a CLA option may or must be withdrawn;

141.5.e

when, the circumstances in which or the terms on which, a CLA option may or
must be disposed of;

141.5.f

sums that are to be paid under or in connection with a CLA option (including
provision permitting or requiring such sums to be adjusted to reflect changes
in the value of money);

141.5.g

the form and content of a CLA option.

##### Power to permit community land auction arrangements

142

142.1

This section applies where—

142.1.a

CLA regulations provide that a local planning authority which is to prepare a
local plan may put in place a community land auction arrangement in relation
to that plan,

142.1.b

the local planning authority resolves to do so (and that resolution has not
been rescinded), and

142.1.c

the community land auction arrangement has not come to an end.

142.2

The local plan may only allocate land in the authority’s area for development—

142.2.a

if the land is subject to a CLA option or a CLA option has already been
exercised in relation to it, or

142.2.b

in circumstances which are prescribed by CLA regulations.

142.3

Any financial benefit that the local planning authority has derived, or will
or could derive, from a CLA option may be taken into account—

142.3.a

in deciding whether to allocate land which is subject to the option, or in
relation to which the option has been exercised, for development in the local
plan;

142.3.b

in deciding whether the local plan is sound in an examination under Part 2 of
PCPA 2004.

142.4

CLA regulations may make provision about how, or to what extent, any financial
benefit may be taken into account under subsection  (3)  (including provision
about how any financial benefit is to be weighed against any other
considerations which may be relevant to whether the land should be allocated
for development in the local plan or to whether the plan is sound).

142.5

References in this section to a local plan do not include references to a
joint local plan (but see  section 147  in relation to the application of this
Part in relation to joint local plans).

#### CLA receipts

##### Application of CLA receipts

143

143.1

CLA regulations must require a local planning authority which receives sums
that represent financial benefit derived from CLA options over land in its
area (“CLA receipts”) to apply them, or cause them to be applied, to—

143.1.a

support the development of an area by funding the provision, improvement,
replacement, operation or maintenance of infrastructure, or

143.1.b

fund the operation of community land auction arrangements in relation to its
area.

143.2

Subsection  (1)  is subject to the following provisions of this section and
sections  144 (1)  to  (3)  and  145 (2)  and  (3) .

143.3

CLA regulations may make provision about the extent to which the CLA receipts
received by a local planning authority may or must be applied to funding the
provision, improvement, replacement, operation or maintenance of
infrastructure of a particular description.

143.4

In this section (except subsection  (6) ) and sections  144 (2) ,  145 (2)
and  146  “infrastructure” includes—

143.4.a

roads and other transport facilities,

143.4.b

flood defences,

143.4.c

schools and other educational facilities,

143.4.d

medical facilities,

143.4.e

sporting and recreational facilities,

143.4.f

open spaces, 

143.4.g

affordable housing,

143.4.h

facilities and equipment for emergency and rescue services,

143.4.i

facilities and spaces which—

143.4.i.i

preserve or improve the natural environment, or

143.4.i.ii

enable or facilitate enjoyment of the natural environment, and

143.4.j

facilities and spaces for the mitigation of, and adaptation to, climate
change.

143.5

In  subsection (4) (g)  “ affordable housing ” means—

143.5.a

social housing within the meaning of Part 2 of the Housing and Regeneration
Act 2008, and

143.5.b

any other description of housing that CLA regulations may specify.

143.6

CLA regulations may amend this section so as to—

143.6.a

add, remove or vary an entry in the list of matters included within the
meaning of “infrastructure”;

143.6.b

list matters excluded from the meaning of “infrastructure”.

143.7

CLA regulations may make provision about circumstances in which local planning
authorities may apply a specified amount of CLA receipts, or cause a specified
amount of CLA receipts to be applied, towards specified purposes which are not
mentioned in subsection  (1) .

143.8

CLA regulations may specify—

143.8.a

works, installations and other facilities whose provision, improvement or
replacement may or is to be, or may not be, funded by CLA receipts,

143.8.b

maintenance activities and operational activities (including operational
activities of a promotional kind) in connection with infrastructure that may
or are to be, or may not be, funded by CLA receipts,

143.8.c

things within  subsection (1) (b)  that may or are to be, or may not be,
funded by CLA receipts,

143.8.d

things within  section 144 (2)  that may or are to be, or may not be, funded
by CLA receipts passed to a person in discharge of a duty under  section 144
(1) ,

143.8.e

things within  section 145 (2)  that may or are to be, or may not be, funded
by CLA receipts to which provision under  section 145 (2)  relates,

143.8.f

criteria for determining the areas that may benefit from funding by CLA
receipts, and

143.8.g

what is to be, or not to be, treated as funding.

143.9

The regulations may—

143.9.a

require local planning authorities in relation to which  section 142  applies
to prepare and publish a list of what is to be, or may be, wholly or partly
funded by CLA receipts;

143.9.b

include provision about the procedure to be followed in preparing a list
(which may include provision for consultation or for the appointment of an
independent person or both);

143.9.c

include provision about the circumstances in which a local planning authority
may and may not apply CLA receipts to anything not included on the list;

143.9.d

permit or require the list to be prepared and published as part of a CLA
infrastructure delivery strategy (see  section 146 ).

143.10

In making provision about funding the regulations may, in particular—

143.10.a

permit CLA receipts to be used to reimburse expenditure already incurred;

143.10.b

permit CLA receipts to be reserved for expenditure that may be incurred in the
future;

143.10.c

permit CLA receipts to be applied (either generally or subject to limits set
by or determined in accordance with the regulations) to administrative
expenses in connection with infrastructure or anything within  section 144 (2)
(a) (ii)  or  section 145 (2) (b)  or otherwise in connection with a community
land auction arrangement;

143.10.d

include provision for the giving of loans, guarantees or indemnities;

143.10.e

make provision about the application of CLA receipts where anything to which
they were to be applied no longer requires funding.

143.11

The regulations may—

143.11.a

require a local planning authority to account separately, and in accordance
with the regulations, for CLA receipts received or due;

143.11.b

require a local planning authority to monitor the use made and to be made of
CLA receipts in its area;

143.11.c

require a local planning authority to report on actual or expected collection
and application of CLA receipts;

143.11.d

permit a local planning authority to cause money to be applied in respect of
things done outside its area;

143.11.e

permit a local planning authority or other body to spend or retain money;

143.11.f

permit a local planning authority to pass money to another body (and in
paragraphs  (a)  to  (e)  a reference to a local planning authority includes a
reference to a body to which a local planning authority passes money in
reliance on this paragraph).

143.12

For the purposes of  subsection (1)  a financial benefit is derived from a CLA
option if it arises as a consequence of the local planning authority—

143.12.a

exercising the option and developing or disposing of the land which was
subject to it, or

143.12.b

disposing of the option.

##### Duty to pass CLA receipts to other persons

144

144.1

CLA regulations may require a local planning authority that receives CLA
receipts in respect of development in an area to pass them to a person other
than the authority.

144.2

CLA regulations imposing a duty under  subsection (1)  must contain provision
to secure that any CLA receipts passed to a person in discharge of the duty
are used to—

144.2.a

support the development of the area to which the duty relates, or of any part
of that area, by funding—

144.2.a.i

the provision, improvement, replacement, operation or maintenance of
infrastructure, or

144.2.a.ii

anything else that is concerned with addressing demands that development
places on an area, or

144.2.b

fund the operation of community land auction arrangements in relation to land
in the local planning authority’s area.

144.3

CLA regulations may make provision about circumstances in which a specified
amount of the CLA receipts may be used for specified purposes which are not
mentioned in  subsection (2) .

144.4

A duty under subsection  (1)  may relate to—

144.4.a

the whole of a local planning authority’s area or the whole of the combined
area of two or more local planning authorities, or

144.4.b

part only of such an area or combined area.

144.5

CLA regulations may make provision about the persons to whom CLA receipts may
or must, or may not, be passed in discharge of a duty under subsection  (1) .

144.6

A duty under subsection  (1)  may relate—

144.6.a

to all CLA receipts (if any) received in respect of the area to which the duty
relates, or

144.6.b

such part of those CLA receipts as is specified in, or determined under or in
accordance with, CLA regulations.

144.7

CLA regulations may make provision in connection with the timing of payments
in discharge of a duty under  subsection (1) .

144.8

CLA regulations may, in relation to CLA receipts passed to a person in
discharge of a duty under  subsection (1) , make provision about—

144.8.a

accounting for the CLA receipts,

144.8.b

monitoring their use,

144.8.c

reporting on their use,

144.8.d

responsibilities of local planning authorities for things done by the person
in connection with the CLA receipts,

144.8.e

recovery of the CLA receipts, and any income or profits accruing in respect of
them or from their application, in cases where—

144.8.e.i

anything to be funded by them has not been provided, or

144.8.e.ii

they have been misapplied,

including recovery of sums or other assets representing them or any such
income or profits, and

144.8.f

use of anything recovered in cases where—

144.8.f.i

anything to be funded by the CLA receipts has not been provided, or

144.8.f.ii

the CLA receipts have been misapplied.

144.9

This section does not limit  section 143 (11) (f) .

##### Use of CLA receipts in an area to which section 

145

145.1

Subsection  (2)  applies where—

145.1.a

there is an area to which a particular duty under  section 144 (1)  relates,
and

145.1.b

there is also an area to which that duty does not relate (“the uncovered
area”).

145.2

CLA regulations may provide that the local planning authority that receives
CLA receipts in respect of development in the uncovered area may apply the CLA
receipts, or cause them to be applied, to—

145.2.a

support development by funding the provision, improvement, replacement,
operation or maintenance of infrastructure,

145.2.b

support development of the uncovered area, or of any part of that area, by
funding anything else that is concerned with addressing demands that
development places on an area, or

145.2.c

funding the operation of community land auction arrangements in relation to
the local planning authority’s area.

145.3

The regulations may make provision about circumstances in which the authority
may apply a specified amount of CLA receipts, or cause a specified amount of
CLA receipts to be applied, towards specified purposes which are not mentioned
in  subsection (2) .

145.4

Provision under subsection  (2) (a)  or  (b)  may relate to the whole, or part
only, of the uncovered area.

145.5

Provision under  subsection (2)  may relate—

145.5.a

to all CLA receipts (if any) received in respect of the area to which the
provision relates, or

145.5.b

such part of those CLA receipts as is specified in, or determined under or in
accordance with, CLA regulations.

##### CLA infrastructure delivery strategy

146

146.1

CLA regulations may require a local planning authority in relation to which
section 142  applies to prepare and publish a CLA infrastructure delivery
strategy.

146.2

A CLA infrastructure delivery strategy is a document which—

146.2.a

sets out the strategic plans (however expressed) of the local planning
authority in relation to the application of CLA receipts, and

146.2.b

includes such other information as may be prescribed by CLA regulations.

146.3

A CLA infrastructure delivery strategy may and, if required by CLA
regulations, must set out the plans (however expressed) of the local planning
authority in relation to the provision, improvement, replacement, operation
and maintenance of infrastructure in the authority’s area.

146.4

A local planning authority may at any time prepare and publish a revision to,
or replacement of, its CLA infrastructure delivery strategy.

146.5

CLA regulations may make provision for the independent examination of—

146.5.a

CLA infrastructure delivery strategies, and

146.5.b

revisions to, or replacements of, such strategies.

146.6

The regulations may make provision for an examination to be combined with—

146.6.a

an examination under Part 2 of PCPA 2004 in relation to a local plan, or

146.6.b

an examination under Part 10A of the Planning Act 2008 in relation to an
infrastructure delivery strategy under that Part.

146.7

The regulations may, in particular, make provision—

146.7.a

about who is to carry out the examination;

146.7.b

about what the examiner must, may or may not consider;

146.7.c

about the procedure to be followed;

146.7.d

about recommendations, or other consequences, arising from or in connection
with the examination;

146.7.e

about circumstances in which an examination is not required;

146.7.f

applying, or corresponding to, any provision made by or under Part 10A of the
Planning Act 2008 relating to an examination in relation to a charging
schedule or infrastructure delivery strategy under that Part (with or without
modifications).

146.8

A local planning authority which is required to prepare and publish a CLA
infrastructure delivery strategy must have regard to any guidance published by
the Secretary of State in relation to the preparation, publication, revision
or replacement of CLA infrastructure delivery strategies.

146.9

CLA regulations may make provision about—

146.9.a

the form and content of CLA infrastructure delivery strategies;

146.9.b

the publication of CLA infrastructure delivery strategies and any related
documents;

146.9.c

the procedures to be followed in relation to the preparation, revision or
replacement of CLA infrastructure delivery strategies;

146.9.d

the timing of any steps in connection with the preparation, publication,
revision or replacement of CLA infrastructure delivery strategies;

146.9.e

the evidence required to inform the preparation of CLA infrastructure delivery
strategies;

146.9.f

consultation in connection with CLA infrastructure delivery strategies;

146.9.g

the preparation of joint CLA infrastructure delivery strategies;

146.9.h

the period of time for which CLA infrastructure delivery strategies are valid.

#### General

##### Power to provide for authorities making joint local plans

147

147.1

CLA regulations may make provision applying any provision made by or under
this Part in relation to local planning authorities whose next local plan is
to be a joint local plan, with or without modifications.

147.2

Where CLA regulations make provision under subsection  (1)  which permits
local planning authorities that are to make a joint local plan to put in place
a community land auction arrangement jointly, it must include provision about
how CLA receipts deriving from that arrangement are to be shared between the
authorities.

##### Parliamentary scrutiny of pilot

148

148.1

The Secretary of State must prepare a report which—

148.1.a

assesses the effectiveness of the operation of this Part in delivering the
overall purpose mentioned in  section 141 (1) , and

148.1.b

contains such other information about, or assessments as to the effect of,
community land auction arrangements as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate.

148.2

The Secretary of State must lay the report before each House of Parliament
before the later of—

148.2.a

the end of the period of 24 months beginning with the day on which this Part
expires in accordance with  section 150 , and

148.2.b

the end of the period of 24 months beginning with the day on which the final
community land auction arrangement comes to an end.

148.3

The “ final community land auction arrangement ” means the last community land
auction arrangement to come to an end.

148.4

After the report has been laid before each House of Parliament under
subsection (2) , the Secretary of State must publish it as soon as is
reasonably practicable.

148.5

In calculating a period of 24 months mentioned in  subsection (2) , no account
is to be taken of any time during which—

148.5.a

Parliament is dissolved or prorogued, or

148.5.b

either House of Parliament is adjourned for more than 4 days.

##### CLA regulations: further provision and guidance

149

149.1

CLA regulations may make provision—

149.1.a

about the leasehold interests in relation to which a community land auction
arrangement may, may not or must be capable of applying;

149.1.b

permitting a local planning authority to exclude land from a community land
auction arrangement and disapply  section 142 (2)  in relation to that land;

149.1.c

about the procedures to be followed under, or in connection with, a community
land auction arrangement;

149.1.d

about the provision or publication of information under, or in connection
with, a community land auction arrangement;

149.1.e

about how, when or the circumstances in which anything must be done under, or
in connection with, a community land auction arrangement;

149.1.f

about the treatment of anyone who has an interest in or over land which is
subject to a CLA option;

149.1.g

about when a community land auction arrangement is to be taken to be put in
place or to come to an end;

149.1.h

about how section 106 of TCPA 1990 (planning obligations) is to be used, or is
not to be used, where  section 142  applies or has applied (including
provision about the circumstances in which a planning obligation under that
section may constitute a reason for granting planning permission);

149.1.i

about the exercise of any other power relating to planning or development;

149.1.j

about anything else relating to planning or development.

149.2

The Secretary of State may give guidance to a local planning authority or
other authority about, or in connection with, community land auction
arrangements (including guidance about how any power relating to planning or
development is to be exercised in circumstances which include, or may include,
a community land auction arrangement); and authorities must have regard to the
guidance.

149.3

Provision may be made under  subsection (1) (h)  to  (j) , and guidance may be
given under  subsection (2) , only if the Secretary of State thinks it
necessary or expedient for—

149.3.a

delivering the overall purpose mentioned in  section 141 (1) ,

149.3.b

enhancing the effectiveness, or increasing the use, of CLA regulations or
community land auction arrangements,

149.3.c

preventing agreements, undertakings or other transactions from being used to
undermine or circumvent CLA regulations or community land auction
arrangements,

149.3.d

preventing agreements, undertakings or other transactions from being used to
achieve a purpose that the Secretary of State thinks would better be achieved
through the application of CLA regulations or community land auction
arrangements, or

149.3.e

preventing or restricting the imposition of burdens, the making of agreements
or the giving of undertakings, in addition to those in connection with CLA
regulations or community land auction arrangements.

149.4

CLA regulations may—

149.4.a

confer functions on any person, including functions involving the exercise of
a discretion;

149.4.b

make consequential, supplementary or incidental provision under  section 252
(1) (c)  which disapplies, or modifies the effect of, any provision made by or
under an Act of Parliament (whenever passed or made).

##### Expiry of Part 

150

150.1

This Part, other than  section 148  and this section, expires at the end of
the period of 10 years beginning with the date on which CLA regulations are
first made.

150.2

Subsection  (1)  does not affect—

150.2.a

any community land auction arrangement which is put in place before the expiry
of this Part (whether or not it comes to an end before this Part expires);

150.2.b

any CLA option, or allocation of land for development in a local plan, that is
made under a community land auction arrangement which is put in place before
the expiry of this Part (whether or not it comes to an end before this Part
expires);

150.2.c

the treatment of any CLA receipts after the expiry of this Part.

150.3

Subsections  (1)  and  (2)  are subject to such transitional, transitory or
saving provision as may be made by CLA regulations in connection with the
expiry of this Part.

##### Interpretation of Part 5

151

In this Part—

      “ CLA option ” has the meaning given by  section 141 (4) ;           “
CLA receipts ” has the meaning given by  section 143 (1) ;           “ CLA
regulations ” has the meaning given by  section 141 (2) ;           “
community land auction arrangement ” has the meaning given by  section 141 (3)
;           “ joint local plan ” and “local plan” have the same meaning as in
Part 2 of PCPA 2004 (see, in particular, section 15LH of that Act);
“ local planning authority ” means a local planning authority for the purposes
of Part 2 of PCPA 2004 (see, in particular,  section 15LF  of that Act) other
than—         a joint committee constituted under  section 15J  of that Act,
an urban development corporation, a development corporation established under
the New Towns Act 1981 or a Mayoral development corporation, or           the
Homes and Communities Agency,         and references to the area of a local
planning authority are to the area for which the authority is the local
planning authority in accordance with Part 2 of PCPA 2004.

### Environmental outcomes reports

#### Setting environmental outcomes

##### Power to specify environmental outcomes

152

152.1

Regulations made by an appropriate authority under this Part (“ EOR
regulations ”) may specify outcomes relating to environmental protection in
the United Kingdom or a relevant offshore area that are to be “ specified
environmental outcomes ” for the purposes of this Part.

152.2

“ Environmental protection ” means—

152.2.a

protection of the natural environment, cultural heritage and the landscape
from the effects of human activity (including, amongst other things, the
protection of chalk streams from abstraction and pollution);

152.2.b

protection of people from the effects of human activity on the natural
environment, cultural heritage and the landscape;

152.2.c

maintenance, restoration or enhancement of the natural environment, cultural
heritage or the landscape;

152.2.d

monitoring, assessing, considering, advising or reporting on anything in
paragraphs  (a)  to  (c) .

152.3

The “ natural environment ” means—

152.3.a

plants, wild animals and other living organisms,

152.3.b

their habitats (including, amongst other things, chalk streams),

152.3.c

land (except buildings or other structures), air and water,

and the natural systems, cycles and processes through which they interact.

152.4

“ Cultural heritage ” means any building, structure, other feature of the
natural or built environment or site, which is of historic, architectural,
archaeological or artistic interest.

152.5

Before making any EOR regulations which contain provision about what the
specified environmental outcomes are to be, an appropriate authority must have
regard to—

152.5.a

in the case of regulations made by the Secretary of State acting alone or
jointly with a devolved authority, the current environmental improvement plan
(within the meaning of Part 1 of the Environment Act 2021),

152.5.b

in the case of regulations made by the Scottish Ministers acting alone, the
current environmental policy strategy (within the meaning of section 47 of the
UK Withdrawal from the European Union (Continuity) (Scotland) Act  2021 (asp
4) ),

152.5.c

in the case of regulations made by the Welsh Ministers acting alone, the
current national natural resources policy (within the meaning of section 9 of
the Environment (Wales) Act 2016), or

152.5.d

in the case of regulations made by a Northern Ireland department acting alone,
the current environmental improvement plan (within the meaning of Schedule 2
to the Environment Act 2021).

#### Power to require environmental outcomes reports

##### Environmental outcomes reports for relevant consents and relevant plans

153

153.1

EOR regulations may make provision requiring an environmental outcomes report
to be prepared in relation to a proposed relevant consent or a proposed
relevant plan.

153.2

Where an environmental outcomes report is required to be prepared in relation
to a proposed relevant consent—

153.2.a

the proposed relevant consent may not be given, unless an environmental
outcomes report has been prepared in relation to it, and

153.2.b

that report must be taken into account or given effect, in accordance with EOR
regulations, in determining whether and on what terms the proposed consent is
to be given.

153.3

Where an environmental outcomes report is required to be prepared in relation
to a proposed relevant plan—

153.3.a

no step may be taken which would have the effect of bringing the proposed
relevant plan into effect, unless an environmental outcomes report has been
prepared in relation to it, and

153.3.b

that report must be taken into account or given effect, in accordance with EOR
regulations, in determining whether and on what terms the proposed relevant
plan is to have effect.

153.4

An “ environmental outcomes report ”, in relation to a proposed relevant
consent or proposed relevant plan, means a written report which assesses—

153.4.a

the extent to which the proposed relevant consent or proposed relevant plan
would, or is likely to, impact on the delivery of specified environmental
outcomes,

153.4.b

any proposals for increasing the extent to which a specified environmental
outcome is delivered,

153.4.c

any steps that may be proposed for the purposes of—

153.4.c.i

avoiding the effects of a specified environmental outcome not being delivered
to any extent;

153.4.c.ii

so far as the effects of a specified environmental outcome not being delivered
to any extent cannot be avoided, mitigating those effects;

153.4.c.iii

so far as the effects of a specified environmental outcome not being delivered
to any extent cannot be avoided or mitigated, compensating for the specified
environmental outcome not being delivered, and

153.4.d

any proposals about how—

153.4.d.i

the impact of the proposed relevant consent or proposed relevant plan on the
delivery of a specified environmental outcome, or

153.4.d.ii

the taking of any proposed steps of the kind mentioned in  paragraph (c) ,

should be monitored or secured.

153.5

The reference in  subsection (4) (c)  to steps includes—

153.5.a

reasonable alternatives to the relevant consent, to the project to which the
relevant consent relates or to any element of either, or (as the case may be)

153.5.b

reasonable alternatives to the relevant plan or any element of it.

153.6

Subsection  (2)  does not apply in relation to a relevant consent where—

153.6.a

the requirement for the consent is imposed under  subsection (4)  of  section
154 , and

153.6.b

the consent is to be given or refused in an environmental outcomes report in
accordance with provision under  subsection (5)  of that section.

153.7

EOR regulations may include provision about or in connection with—

153.7.a

what is to be taken to constitute the giving of a relevant consent for the
purposes of  subsection (2) ;

153.7.b

the proposed relevant consents and proposed relevant plans for which an
environmental outcomes report is, or may be, required;

153.7.c

in relation to proposed relevant consents and proposed relevant plans for
which an environmental outcomes report may be required, the circumstances in
which a report is required;

153.7.d

an environmental outcomes report not needing to assess the extent to which a
proposed relevant consent or proposed relevant plan would, or is likely to,
impact on the delivery of a specified environmental outcome, where an adequate
assessment of the impact on delivery of the outcome has in effect already
been, or is to be, carried out in a different environmental outcomes report;

153.7.e

what proposals an environmental outcomes report may or must deal with under
subsection (4) (b) ,  (c)  and  (d) ;

153.7.f

how any of the assessments mentioned in  subsection (4)  are to be carried
out;

153.7.g

the information to be included in, and the content and form of, an
environmental outcomes report, including provision requiring, or permitting a
public authority to require, a report to deal with matters in addition to
those provided for in  subsection (4) ;

153.7.h

how, and to what extent, environmental outcomes reports are to be taken into
account or given effect by public authorities in considering, and making
decisions in relation to, relevant consents or relevant plans;

153.7.i

the carrying out of any proposals assessed in an environmental outcomes report
under  subsection (4) (b) ,  (c)  and  (d) .

#### Defining the consents and plans to which this Part applies

##### Power to define “relevant consent” and “relevant plan” etc

154

154.1

EOR regulations may provide that a consent of a description specified in the
regulations (a “category 1 consent”) is to be a “ relevant consent ” for the
purposes of this Part in all cases.

154.2

EOR regulations may provide that a consent of a description specified in the
regulations (a “category 2 consent”) is to be a “ relevant consent ” for the
purposes of this Part only if certain criteria specified in EOR regulations
are met.

154.3

EOR regulations may make provision about, or in connection with, how, when and
by whom it is to be determined whether criteria are met, such that a category
2 consent is a relevant consent.

154.4

EOR regulations may impose a requirement for a consent in relation to a
project, which is to be a category 1 consent or a category 2 consent.

154.5

EOR regulations may make provision about, or in connection with, how a consent
which is required under  subsection (4)  is to be given, including provision
for it to be given (or refused) by an environmental outcomes report.

154.6

“ Relevant plan ” means a plan or programme which—

154.6.a

relates, or may relate, to a project or to environmental protection in the
United Kingdom or a relevant offshore area, and

154.6.b

is specified or described in EOR regulations for the purposes of this
subsection.

154.7

References in this Part to a proposed relevant consent or proposed relevant
plan include references to a proposed variation or modification of, or
revision to, a relevant consent or relevant plan (however described).

154.8

“ Consent ” means any consent, approval, permission, authorisation,
confirmation or decision (however described, given or made) that is required,
or otherwise provided for, by or under any enactment in relation to a project.

154.9

“ Project ” means a project in the United Kingdom or a relevant offshore area
involving—

154.9.a

construction, engineering, demolition, dismantling or decommissioning,

154.9.b

the installation, depositing or removal of any thing,

154.9.c

the exploitation of natural resources by any means,

154.9.d

a change in the use of land, a building or other structure, or

154.9.e

any other activity capable of affecting the natural environment, cultural
heritage or landscape.

#### Assessment and monitoring

##### Assessing and monitoring impact on outcomes etc

155

155.1

EOR regulations may make provision about, or in connection with, how the
extent to which a relevant consent or relevant plan actually affects the
delivery of a specified environmental outcome is to be assessed or monitored.

155.2

EOR regulations may make provision about, or in connection with, how the
carrying out of any proposals assessed in an environmental outcomes report
under  section 153 (4) (b) ,  (c)  or  (d) , or requirements under  subsection
(3) , is to be assessed or monitored.

155.3

EOR regulations may make provision requiring action to be taken, if an
assessment or monitoring under  subsection (1)  or  (2)  determines that is
appropriate for the purposes of—

155.3.a

increasing the extent to which a specified environmental outcome is delivered,

155.3.b

mitigating or remedying the effects of a specified environmental outcome not
being delivered to any extent, or

155.3.c

compensating for a specified environmental outcome not being delivered to any
extent.

#### Safeguards, devolution and exemptions

##### Safeguards: non-regression, international obligations and public engagement

156

156.1

An appropriate authority may make EOR regulations only if satisfied that
making the regulations will not result in environmental law providing an
overall level of environmental protection that is less than that provided by
environmental law at the time this Act is passed.

156.2

EOR regulations may not contain provision that is inconsistent with the
implementation of the international obligations of the United Kingdom relating
to the assessment of the environmental impact of relevant plans and relevant
consents.

156.3

In exercising functions under this Part, an appropriate authority must seek to
ensure that (so far as would not otherwise be the case) arrangements will
exist under which the public will be informed of any proposed relevant consent
or proposed relevant plan in sufficient detail, and at a sufficiently early
stage, to enable adequate public engagement to take place.

156.4

In this section—

      “ adequate public engagement ” means such engagement with the public, in
relation to a proposed relevant consent or proposed relevant plan, as the
appropriate authority considers appropriate;           “ environmental law ”
means environmental law (within the meaning of Part 1 of the Environment Act
2021 but disregarding section 46(3) and (4) of that Act), whether or not the
environmental law is in force.

##### Requirements to consult devolved administrations

157

157.1

The Secretary of State may only make EOR regulations which contain provision—

157.1.a

within Scottish devolved legislative competence, or

157.1.b

which could be made by the Scottish Ministers,

with the consent of the Scottish Ministers, unless that provision is merely
incidental to, or consequential on, provision that would be outside that
devolved legislative competence.

157.2

The Secretary of State may only make EOR regulations which contain provision
that confers a function on, or modifies or removes a function of, the Scottish
Ministers after consulting the Scottish Ministers, unless—

157.2.a

that provision is contained in regulations which require the consent of the
Scottish Ministers by virtue of subsection (1), or

157.2.b

that provision is merely incidental to, or consequential on, provision that
would be outside Scottish devolved legislative competence.

157.3

Provision is “within Scottish devolved legislative competence” where, if the
provision were included in an Act of the Scottish Parliament, it would be
within the legislative competence of that Parliament.

157.4

The Secretary of State may only make EOR regulations which contain provision
within Welsh devolved legislative competence with the consent of the Welsh
Ministers, unless that provision is merely incidental to, or consequential on,
provision that would be outside that devolved legislative competence.

157.5

The Secretary of State may only make EOR regulations which contain provision
that could be made by the Welsh Ministers or that confers a function on, or
modifies or removes a function of, the Welsh Ministers or a devolved Welsh
authority after consulting the Welsh Ministers, unless—

157.5.a

that provision is contained in regulations which require the consent of the
Welsh Ministers by virtue of subsection  (4) , or

157.5.b

that provision is merely incidental to, or consequential on, provision that
would be outside Welsh devolved legislative competence.

157.6

“ Devolved Welsh authority ” has the same meaning as in the Government of
Wales Act 2006 (see section 157A of that Act).

157.7

Provision is “within Welsh devolved legislative competence” where, if the
provision were included in an Act of Senedd Cymru, it would be within the
legislative competence of the Senedd (including any provision that could be
made only with the consent of a Minister of the Crown).

157.8

The Secretary of State may only make EOR regulations which contain provision
within Northern Ireland devolved legislative competence with the consent of
the relevant Northern Ireland department, unless that provision is merely
incidental to, or consequential on, provision that would be outside that
devolved legislative competence.

157.9

The Secretary of State may only make EOR regulations which contain provision
that could be made by a Northern Ireland department or that confers a function
on, or modifies or removes a function of, a Northern Ireland department after
consulting the relevant Northern Ireland department, unless—

157.9.a

that provision is contained in regulations which require the consent of the
relevant Northern Ireland department by virtue of subsection  (8) , or

157.9.b

that provision is merely incidental to, or consequential on, provision that
would be outside Northern Ireland devolved legislative competence.

157.10

The “relevant Northern Ireland department” is such Northern Ireland department
as the Secretary of State considers appropriate having regard to the provision
which is to be contained in the regulations concerned.

157.11

Provision is within “Northern Ireland devolved legislative competence” where
the provision—

157.11.a

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly,
if contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

157.11.b

would not, if contained in a Bill for an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State.

157.12

In this section “ Minister of the Crown ” has the same meaning as in the
Ministers of the Crown Act 1975.

##### EOR regulations: devolved authorities

158

Schedule 13  contains restrictions on the exercise of the powers under this
Part by devolved authorities.

##### Exemptions for national defence and civil emergency etc

159

159.1

The Secretary of State may direct that no environmental outcomes report is
required to be prepared in relation to a proposed relevant consent which is
solely for the purposes of national defence or preventing or responding to
civil emergency.

159.2

EOR regulations may provide for further circumstances in which the Secretary
of State is to be able to direct that no environmental outcomes report is
required to be prepared.

159.3

A direction under this section may provide that provision in EOR regulations
specified in the direction applies (subject to any modifications specified in
the direction), despite the fact that no environmental outcomes report is
required to be prepared.

159.4

The Secretary of State may modify or revoke a direction under this section.

#### Enforcement

##### Enforcement

160

160.1

EOR regulations may make provision about, or in connection with, the
enforcement of requirements imposed by or under this Part.

160.2

EOR regulations under this section may, in particular, include provision—

160.2.a

creating a criminal offence (but may not create a criminal offence punishable
with imprisonment);

160.2.b

conferring a power on any court or tribunal;

160.2.c

for the imposition of civil sanctions and appeals against such sanctions;

160.2.d

conferring a power of entry (whether or not on the authority of a warrant);

160.2.e

conferring a power of inspection, search, seizure or detention (whether or not
on the authority of a warrant);

160.2.f

authorising, or making provision for the authorisation of, the use of
reasonable force in connection with a power mentioned in paragraph  (d)  or
(e) ;

160.2.g

applying, or corresponding to, any provision, made by or under any enactment,
relating to enforcement in connection with a category 1 consent or a category
2 consent (with or without modifications).

160.3

EOR regulations under  subsection (2) (c)  may make provision for the
imposition of civil sanctions whether or not the conduct in respect of which
the sanction is imposed constitutes an offence.

160.4

In this section “ civil sanction ” means a sanction of a kind for which
provision may be made under Part 3 of the Regulatory Enforcement and Sanctions
Act 2008 (fixed monetary penalties, discretionary requirements, stop notices,
enforcement undertakings).

#### Reporting

##### Reporting

161

161.1

EOR regulations may make provision requiring a public authority to report on,
or provide information in relation to, the delivery of specified environmental
outcomes.

161.2

EOR regulations may, in particular, include provision about or in connection
with—

161.2.a

the information to be included in, and the content and form of, a report
required under  subsection (1) ;

161.2.b

the content and form of information required to be provided under  subsection
(1) ;

161.2.c

when, or the circumstances in which, the information or report must be
provided;

161.2.d

the publication of the information or report;

161.2.e

who the information or report is to be provided to;

161.2.f

a report being combined with another document which is to be prepared under
any enactment.

#### General

##### Public consultation etc

162

162.1

An appropriate authority must consult the public before making EOR regulations
which contain provision—

162.1.a

under  section 152 (1)  (specified environmental outcomes);

162.1.b

amending, repealing or revoking relevant existing environmental assessment
legislation.

162.2

An appropriate authority must consult such persons as the appropriate
authority considers appropriate—

162.2.a

before making EOR regulations which contain provision under—

162.2.a.i

section 154 (1)  to  (6)  (consents and plans subject to this Part);

162.2.a.ii

section 159 (2)  (power to provide for further exemptions by Secretary of
State direction);

162.2.a.iii

section 160  (enforcement);

162.2.a.iv

section 164  (interaction with existing environmental assessment legislation
and the Habitats Regulations);

162.2.b

before issuing, modifying or withdrawing any guidance under section  163 ,
which relates to—

162.2.b.i

how the likely impact of a proposed relevant consent or proposed relevant plan
on the delivery of a specified environmental outcome should be assessed, or

162.2.b.ii

how the extent to which a relevant consent or relevant plan actually affects
the delivery of a specified environmental outcome should be assessed or
monitored.

162.3

EOR regulations may require a public authority to respond, or to respond in a
particular way or by a particular time, to a consultation under  subsection
(1)  or  (2) .

162.4

The requirements to consult in subsections  (1)  and  (2)  may be met by
consultation carried out before the subsection concerned comes into force.

##### Guidance

163

163.1

A public authority carrying out a function under this Part, other than under
regulations made by a devolved authority acting alone, must have regard to any
guidance issued by the Secretary of State in relation to the function.

163.2

A public authority carrying out a function under regulations made under this
Part by the Secretary of State acting jointly with one or more devolved
authorities must have regard to any guidance issued by the Secretary of State
or any of those devolved authorities in relation to the function.

163.3

Before issuing guidance under subsection  (2) —

163.3.a

the Secretary of State must—

163.3.a.i

obtain the consent of the Scottish Ministers so far as the guidance relates to
a matter provision about which would be within Scottish devolved legislative
competence by virtue of section  157 (3)  or which could be made by the
Scottish Ministers;

163.3.a.ii

obtain the consent of the Welsh Ministers so far as the guidance relates to a
matter provision about which would be within Welsh devolved legislative
competence (see section  157 (7) );

163.3.a.iii

obtain the consent of the relevant Northern Ireland department so far as the
guidance relates to a matter provision about which would be within Northern
Ireland devolved legislative competence (see section  157 (11) );

163.3.b

the Scottish Ministers must obtain the consent of the Secretary of State so
far as the guidance relates to a matter provision about which would not be
within Scottish devolved legislative competence by virtue of section  157 (3)
or which could not be made by the Scottish Ministers;

163.3.c

the Welsh Ministers must obtain the consent of the Secretary of State so far
as the guidance relates to a matter provision about which would be outside
Welsh devolved legislative competence (see section  157 (7) );

163.3.d

a Northern Ireland department must obtain the consent of the Secretary of
State so far as the guidance relates to a matter provision about which would
be outside Northern Ireland devolved legislative competence (see section  157
(11) ).

163.4

The “relevant Northern Ireland department” is such Northern Ireland department
as the Secretary of State considers appropriate having regard to the material
which is to be contained in the guidance concerned.

163.5

A public authority carrying out a function under regulations made under this
Part by a devolved authority acting alone must have regard to any guidance
issued by the devolved authority in relation to the function.

163.6

A public authority carrying out a function under existing environmental
assessment legislation listed in  Part 1  of  Schedule 14  (other than a
function under Schedule 3 to the Harbours Act 1964 so far as relating to
environmental impact assessments in Scotland) must have regard to any guidance
issued by the Secretary of State in relation to the function.

163.7

A public authority carrying out a function under existing environmental
assessment legislation listed in  Part 2  of  Schedule 14  must have regard to
any guidance issued by the Scottish Ministers in relation to the function.

163.8

A public authority carrying out a function under existing environmental
assessment legislation listed in  Part 3  of  Schedule 14  must have regard to
any guidance issued by the Welsh Ministers in relation to the function.

163.9

A public authority carrying out a function under existing environmental
assessment legislation listed in  Part 4  of  Schedule 14  must have regard to
any guidance issued by a Northern Ireland department in relation to the
function.

163.10

EOR regulations may require any person carrying out a function under EOR
regulations to have regard to guidance issued by an appropriate authority in
relation to the function, failing which the function is not to be regarded as
having been validly carried out.

##### Interaction with existing environmental assessment legislation and the Habitats Regulations

164

164.1

EOR regulations may make provision about, or in connection with, the
interaction of this Part with existing environmental assessment legislation or
the Habitats Regulations.

164.2

EOR regulations under this section may, in particular, include provision—

164.2.a

treating anything done, or omitted to be done, in relation to an environmental
outcomes report as satisfying or failing to satisfy a requirement under
relevant existing environmental assessment legislation or the relevant
Habitats Regulations;

164.2.b

treating anything done, or omitted to be done, under existing environmental
assessment legislation or the Habitats Regulations as satisfying or failing to
satisfy a requirement imposed by or under this Part;

164.2.c

about the co-ordination of things done under this Part and things done under
existing environmental assessment legislation or the Habitats Regulations;

164.2.d

disapplying or otherwise modifying any provision of relevant existing
environmental assessment legislation or the relevant Habitats Regulations
where preparation of an environmental outcomes report is required under this
Part;

164.2.e

disapplying or otherwise modifying any provision of this Part or EOR
regulations where something is done, or required to be done, under existing
environmental assessment legislation or the Habitats Regulations.

164.3

EOR regulations under this section may amend, repeal or revoke relevant
existing environmental assessment legislation.

164.4

In this section—

      “ the Habitats Regulations ” means—         regulation 5 of the Offshore
Petroleum Activities (Conservation of Habitats) Regulations 2001 ( S.I.
2001/1754 );           regulation 24 and Part 6 of the Conservation of
Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/1012 );
regulations 27 to 37 of the Conservation of Offshore Marine Habitats and
Species Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/1013 );           the Conservation
(Natural Habitats, &c.) Regulations 1994 ( S.I. 1994/2716 );           the
Conservation (Natural Habitats, etc.) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1995 (
S.R. (N.I.) 1995/380 );                 “ the relevant Habitats Regulations ”
means—         in relation to EOR regulations made by the Secretary of State
acting alone or jointly with one or more devolved authorities, the legislation
listed in the definition of “the Habitats Regulations”;           in relation
to EOR regulations made by the Scottish Ministers acting alone, the
legislation listed in paragraph (d) of that definition;           in relation
to EOR regulations made by the Welsh Ministers acting alone, the legislation
listed in the definition of “the Habitats Regulations” so far as it applies in
relation to Wales;           in relation to EOR regulations made by a Northern
Ireland department acting alone, the legislation listed in paragraph (e) of
that definition.

##### Consequential repeal of power to make provision for environmental assessment

165

165.1

TCPA 1990 is amended as follows.

165.2

Omit section 71A (assessment of environmental effects).

165.3

In section 293A (urgent Crown development: application), in subsection (4),
omit paragraph (a).

##### EOR regulations: further provision

166

166.1

EOR regulations may make provision about or in connection with—

166.1.a

the procedure to be followed in relation to anything done under this Part,
including the time by which anything must be done;

166.1.b

who is to prepare an environmental outcomes report, including provision
permitting a public authority to determine who is to do so or the
qualifications or experience a person must have to do so;

166.1.c

requiring a public authority to assist with any assessment or monitoring under
this Part;

166.1.d

the publication of, and consultation and public engagement in connection with,
environmental outcomes reports and other relevant documents;

166.1.e

the information to be included in, and the content and form of, any relevant
document;

166.1.f

the persons to whom an environmental outcomes report or other relevant
document is to be given, and how it is to be given;

166.1.g

the collection or provision of information in connection with this Part;

166.1.h

the rejection of a relevant document, or information provided in connection
with this Part, if it is not provided in accordance with  Chapter 1  of  Part
3  (planning data), including provision requiring a document or information to
be rejected;

166.1.i

how, and to what extent, any failure to comply with a requirement imposed by
or under this Part is to be taken into account by public authorities in
considering, and making decisions in relation to, relevant consents or
relevant plans;

166.1.j

appeals against, or reviews of, decisions of a public authority about matters
for, or in respect of, which provision is made by EOR regulations or existing
environmental assessment legislation.

166.2

EOR regulations may—

166.2.a

provide for the charging of fees or other charges;

166.2.b

confer a function, including a function involving the exercise of a
discretion, on any person;

166.2.c

make consequential, supplementary or incidental provision under  section 252
(1) (c)  which amends, repeals or revokes any legislation (whenever passed or
made).

166.3

In  subsection (2) (c)  “ legislation ” means any provision made by or under—

166.3.a

an Act,

166.3.b

an Act or Measure of Senedd Cymru,

166.3.c

an Act of the Scottish Parliament,

166.3.d

Northern Ireland legislation, or

166.3.e

  assimilated direct legislation .

##### Interpretation of 

167

167.1

“ Existing environmental assessment legislation ” means the legislation listed
in  Schedule 14 .

167.2

“ Relevant existing environmental assessment legislation ” means—

167.2.a

in relation to EOR regulations made by the Secretary of State acting alone or
jointly with one or more devolved authorities, the legislation listed in
Schedule 14 ;

167.2.b

in relation to EOR regulations made by the Scottish Ministers acting alone,
the legislation listed in  Part 2  of that Schedule;

167.2.c

in relation to EOR regulations made by the Welsh Ministers acting alone, the
legislation listed in  Part 3  of that Schedule;

167.2.d

in relation to EOR regulations made by a Northern Ireland department acting
alone, the legislation listed in  Part 4  of that Schedule.

167.3

In this Part—

      “ appropriate authority ” means—         the Secretary of State,
a devolved authority, or           the Secretary of State acting jointly with
one or more devolved authorities;                 “ category 1 consent ” and
“category 2 consent” have the meaning given by  section 154 (1)  and  (2) ;
“ cultural heritage ” has the meaning given by  section 152 (4) ;           “
devolved authority ” means—         the Scottish Ministers,           the
Welsh Ministers, or           a Northern Ireland department;                 “
environmental outcomes report ” has the meaning given by  section 153 (4) ;
“ environmental protection ” has the meaning given by  section 152 (2) ;
“ EOR regulations ” has the meaning given by  section 152 (1) ;           “
existing environmental assessment legislation ” has the meaning given by
subsection (1) ;           “ natural environment ” has the meaning given by
section 152 (3) ;           “ project ” has the meaning given by  section 154
(9) ;           “ proposed ”, in relation to a relevant consent or relevant
plan, is to be construed in accordance with  section 154 (7) ;           “
public authority ” means—         any person with functions under, or
functions in respect of which provision is made by, existing environmental
assessment legislation when this Act is passed;           any public authority
within the meaning of section 6 of the Human Rights Act 1998, other than a
court or tribunal;                 “ relevant consent ” has the meaning given
by  section 154 ;           “ relevant document ” means a document or
information for, or in respect of, which provision is made by EOR regulations
or existing environmental assessment legislation;           “ relevant
existing environmental assessment legislation ” has the meaning given by
subsection  (2) ;           “ relevant offshore area ” means any area in—
the territorial sea adjacent to the United Kingdom,           any area
designated by Order in Council under section 1(7) of the Continental Shelf Act
1964, or           any area designated by Order in Council under section 41(3)
of the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009;                 “ relevant plan ”
has the meaning given by  section 154 (6) ;           “ specified
environmental outcome ” has the meaning given by  section 152 (1) .

### Nutrient pollution standards

#### Nutrient pollution standards to apply to certain sewage disposal works

168

168.1

After section 96A of the Water Industry Act 1991 insert—

########## Nutrient pollution standards to apply to certain sewage disposal works

168.1.96B

168.1.96B.1

A sewerage undertaker whose area is wholly or mainly in England must—

168.1.96B.1.a

in the case of each nitrogen significant plant comprised in its sewerage
system—

168.1.96B.1.a.i

secure that, by the upgrade date, the plant will be able to meet the nitrogen
nutrient pollution standard, and

168.1.96B.1.a.ii

on and after the upgrade date, secure that the plant meets that standard;

168.1.96B.1.b

in the case of each phosphorus significant plant comprised in its sewerage
system—

168.1.96B.1.b.i

secure that, by the upgrade date, the plant will be able to meet the
phosphorus nutrient pollution standard, and

168.1.96B.1.b.ii

on and after the upgrade date, secure that the plant meets that standard.

168.1.96B.2

In carrying out the duty under subsection  (1) , a sewerage undertaker must
consider whether nature-based solutions, technologies and facilities relating
to sewerage and water could be used to meet the standard.

168.1.96B.3

“ Nitrogen significant plant ” means a plant in England that—

168.1.96B.3.a

discharges treated effluent into a nitrogen sensitive catchment area, and

168.1.96B.3.b

is not an exempt plant in relation to the nitrogen nutrient pollution
standard.

168.1.96B.4

“ Phosphorus significant plant ” means a plant in England that—

168.1.96B.4.a

discharges treated effluent into a phosphorus sensitive catchment area, and

168.1.96B.4.b

is not an exempt plant in relation to the phosphorus nutrient pollution
standard.

########## Sensitive catchment areas

168.1.96C

168.1.96C.1

Where the Secretary of State considers that a habitats site that is wholly or
partly in England is in an unfavourable condition by virtue of pollution from
nutrients in water comprising nitrogen or compounds of nitrogen, the Secretary
of State may designate the catchment area for the habitats site as a nitrogen
sensitive catchment area.

168.1.96C.2

Where the Secretary of State considers that a habitats site that is wholly or
partly in England is in an unfavourable condition by virtue of pollution from
nutrients in water comprising phosphorus or compounds of phosphorus, the
Secretary of State may designate the catchment area for the habitats site as a
phosphorus sensitive catchment area.

168.1.96C.3

In determining—

168.1.96C.3.a

whether a habitats site is in an unfavourable condition by virtue of pollution
from nutrients comprising nitrogen, phosphorus or compounds of nitrogen or
phosphorus,

168.1.96C.3.b

the catchment area for a habitats site, or

168.1.96C.3.c

whether to exercise the power in subsection  (4) (e) ,

the Secretary of State may take into account, in particular, advice from, or
guidance published by, Natural England, the Environment Agency or the Joint
Nature Conservation Committee.

168.1.96C.4

A designation under subsection  (1)  or  (2) —

168.1.96C.4.a

must be in writing,

168.1.96C.4.b

must be published as soon as practicable after being made,

168.1.96C.4.c

takes effect—

168.1.96C.4.c.i

on the day specified in the designation, or

168.1.96C.4.c.ii

if none is specified, on the day on which it is made,

(the “designation date”),

168.1.96C.4.d

if it takes effect after the end of the initial period, must specify the
upgrade date (see section  96E (1) (b) ), and

168.1.96C.4.e

may specify the concentration that applies to a plant (which discharges into
the catchment area) in relation to a nutrient pollution standard instead of
the standard concentration.

168.1.96C.5

A date specified under subsection  (4) (d)  as the upgrade date must be at
least 7 years after the designation date.

168.1.96C.6

Before specifying a concentration under subsection  (4) (e) , the Secretary of
State must consult the Environment Agency.

168.1.96C.7

A concentration specified under subsection  (4) (e)  ceases to have effect if,
after the day on which the designation is made, the plant becomes an exempt
plant.

168.1.96C.8

A designation under this section may not be revoked; and it is immaterial for
the purposes of the continued designation of an area whether subsection  (1)
or  (2)  continues to be satisfied in relation to it.

168.1.96C.9

In this section “ catchment area ”, in relation to a habitats site, means the
area where water, if released, would drain into the site.

########## Exempt sewage disposal works

168.1.96D

168.1.96D.1

A plant is exempt in relation to a nutrient pollution standard if—

168.1.96D.1.a

it has a capacity of less than a population equivalent of 2000 when the
designation of the associated catchment area takes effect,

168.1.96D.1.b

it has been designated by the Secretary of State as exempt in relation to the
standard, or

168.1.96D.1.c

it is exempt in relation to the standard under regulations under subsection
(8) .

This is subject to subsection  (2) .

168.1.96D.2

The Secretary of State may designate a plant as not being exempt in relation
to a nutrient pollution standard, unless—

168.1.96D.2.a

the plant has a capacity of less than a population equivalent of 250, and

168.1.96D.2.b

the designation takes effect after the designation of the associated catchment
area takes effect.

168.1.96D.3

A designation under subsection  (1) (b)  or  (2) —

168.1.96D.3.a

must be in writing,

168.1.96D.3.b

must be published as soon as practicable after being made, and

168.1.96D.3.c

takes effect—

168.1.96D.3.c.i

on the day specified in the designation, or

168.1.96D.3.c.ii

if none is specified, on the day on which it is made.

168.1.96D.4

A designation under subsection  (2)  that takes effect after the designation
of the associated catchment area takes effect must specify the upgrade date
(see section  96E (2) (a) ).

The upgrade date must be at least 7 years after the designation under
subsection  (2)  takes effect.

168.1.96D.5

A designation under subsection  (2)  may specify the concentration that
applies to a plant in relation to a nutrient pollution standard instead of the
standard concentration.

168.1.96D.6

Before specifying a concentration under subsection  (5) , the Secretary of
State must consult the Environment Agency.

168.1.96D.7

A concentration specified under subsection  (5)  ceases to have effect if,
after the day on which the designation is made, the plant again becomes an
exempt plant.

168.1.96D.8

The Secretary of State may by regulations specify plants or descriptions of
plant that are to be exempt in relation to a nutrient pollution standard.

168.1.96D.9

Subsections  (10)  and  (11)  apply where a plant that is exempt under
regulations under subsection  (8)  can, by virtue of the regulations, cease to
be exempt.

168.1.96D.10

The regulations must specify or provide for determining the upgrade date (see
section  96E (2) (b) ) in relation to any plant that ceases, by virtue of the
regulations, to be an exempt plant in relation to a standard after the
designation of the associated catchment area takes effect.

The upgrade date must be at least 7 years after the plant ceases to be exempt
in relation to the standard.

168.1.96D.11

The regulations may provide for the Secretary of State to specify the
concentration that applies to a plant that ceases, by virtue of the
regulations, to be an exempt plant in relation to a nutrient pollution
standard instead of the standard concentration; and, if such provision is
made, the regulations must—

168.1.96D.11.a

require that the Secretary of State consult the Environment Agency before
specifying a concentration;

168.1.96D.11.b

provide for any specified concentration to cease to have effect if, after the
day on which the plant ceases to be an exempt plant, the plant again becomes
an exempt plant.

168.1.96D.12

A designation under subsection  (2)  in relation to a plant and a nutrient
pollution standard is of no effect if the plant ceases, by virtue of
regulations under subsection  (8) , to be exempt in relation to the standard
before, or at the same time as, the designation would otherwise take effect.

168.1.96D.13

In this section “ population equivalent ” has the meaning given by regulation
2(1) of the Urban Waste Water Treatment (England and Wales) Regulations 1994 (
S.I. 1994/2841 ).

168.1.96D.14

References in this section to the designation of an associated catchment area
are to its designation as a sensitive catchment area.

########## Upgrade date

168.1.96E

168.1.96E.1

The upgrade date, in relation to a nutrient significant plant, is, unless
subsection  (2)  or  (3)  applies—

168.1.96E.1.a

1 April 2030, if the designation of the associated catchment area takes effect
during the initial period;

168.1.96E.1.b

the date specified under section  96C (4) (d) , if the designation of the
associated catchment area takes effect after the end of the initial period.

168.1.96E.2

But, if the plant becomes a nutrient significant plant after the designation
of the associated catchment area takes effect, the upgrade date is—

168.1.96E.2.a

the date specified under section  96D (4) , where it becomes a nutrient
significant plant by virtue of a designation under section  96D (2) ;

168.1.96E.2.b

the date specified by or determined under provision made by virtue of section
96D (10) , where it becomes a nutrient significant plant on ceasing, by virtue
of regulations under section  96D (8) , to be exempt.

168.1.96E.3

Where the associated catchment area has ceased to be a catchment permitting
area and a date has been specified under section  96H (4) (c) , that date is
the upgrade date.

168.1.96E.4

“ The initial period ” means the period of 3 months beginning with the date on
which the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023 is passed.

168.1.96E.5

References in this section to the designation of an associated catchment area
are to its designation as a sensitive catchment area.

########## Nutrient pollution standards

168.1.96F

168.1.96F.1

A nitrogen significant plant meets the nitrogen nutrient pollution standard
if—

168.1.96F.1.a

where the associated catchment area is not a catchment permitting area (see
section  96G ), the concentration of total nitrogen in treated effluent that
the plant discharges is not more than—

168.1.96F.1.a.i

10 mg/l, or

168.1.96F.1.a.ii

where a different concentration applies to the plant under section  96C (4)
(e)  or  96D (5)  or by virtue of regulations made under section  96D (11) ,
that concentration;

168.1.96F.1.b

where the associated catchment area is a catchment permitting area, the
sewerage undertaker is complying with any condition in the environmental
permit for the plant imposed in pursuance of section  96G (3) (b) .

168.1.96F.2

A phosphorus significant plant meets the phosphorus nutrient pollution
standard if—

168.1.96F.2.a

where the associated catchment area is not a catchment permitting area, the
concentration of total phosphorus in treated effluent that the plant
discharges is not more than—

168.1.96F.2.a.i

0.25 mg/l, or

168.1.96F.2.a.ii

where a different concentration applies to the plant under section  96C (4)
(e)  or  96D (5)  or by virtue of regulations made under section  96D (11) ,
that concentration;

168.1.96F.2.b

where the associated catchment area is a catchment permitting area, the
sewerage undertaker is complying with any condition in the environmental
permit for the plant imposed in pursuance of section  96G (3) (b) .

168.1.96F.3

“ Treated effluent ”, in relation to a plant, means any effluent discharged by
the plant, other than anything discharged—

168.1.96F.3.a

from a storm overflow, or

168.1.96F.3.b

by an emergency discharge.

168.1.96F.4

For the purposes of subsection  (3) , in relation to a plant—

168.1.96F.4.a

“ storm overflow ” means any structure or apparatus comprised in the plant
which, when the capacity of relevant parts of the sewerage system is exceeded,
relieves them by discharging the excess contents into inland waters,
underground strata or the sea, where—

      “ relevant parts of the sewerage system ” means—         storage tanks
at the plant, and           other parts of the sewerage system downstream of
the plant;                 “ the sewerage system ” means the undertaker’s
sewerage system of which the plant forms part;

168.1.96F.4.b

“ emergency discharge ” means a discharge in circumstances where the plant’s
normal treatment process has failed because of—

168.1.96F.4.b.i

electrical power failure, or

168.1.96F.4.b.ii

mechanical breakdown of duty and standby pumps.

168.1.96F.5

Regulations made by the Secretary of State may specify how the concentration
of total nitrogen or concentration of total phosphorus in treated effluent is
to be determined.

168.1.96F.6

Regulations under subsection  (5)  may, in particular—

168.1.96F.6.a

make provision for requiring regular sampling of the treated effluent that a
plant discharges to ascertain the concentration of total nitrogen or
concentration of total phosphorus;

168.1.96F.6.b

make provision for regarding a nutrient pollution standard as being met by a
plant if, for example—

168.1.96F.6.b.i

it is met, with at least the frequency specified in the regulations, in
samples taken in accordance with the regulations, or

168.1.96F.6.b.ii

the average concentration, calculated in accordance with the regulations, of
total nitrogen or of total phosphorus in samples taken in accordance with the
regulations would meet the standard;

168.1.96F.6.c

make provision for determining generally, or in a particular case, whether
anything is, or is not, to be regarded as treated effluent discharged by a
plant;

168.1.96F.6.d

make provision in relation to section  96G , including—

168.1.96F.6.d.i

the determination of compliance with conditions in environmental permits
imposed in pursuance of section  96G (3) (b) ;

168.1.96F.6.d.ii

in connection with any kind of plant;

168.1.96F.6.e

confer any function on the Secretary of State, the Authority, the Environment
Agency, statutory undertakers or any other person;

168.1.96F.6.f

make different provision for different purposes or different areas (including
different plants within an area).

########## Nutrient pollution standards determined through environmental permitting

168.1.96G

168.1.96G.1

The Secretary of State may designate a sensitive catchment area as a catchment
permitting area.

168.1.96G.2

In determining whether to make a designation under  subsection (1)  or to
revoke such a designation under section  96H (3) (c) , the Secretary of State
may take into account, in particular, advice from, or guidance published by,
the Environment Agency or Natural England.

168.1.96G.3

Where the Secretary of State makes a designation under subsection  (1) , the
Environment Agency must—

168.1.96G.3.a

review the environmental permits for the plants that discharge treated
effluent into the catchment permitting area that are—

168.1.96G.3.a.i

nutrient significant plants, and

168.1.96G.3.a.ii

such other plants that the Environment Agency considers appropriate (including
such plants within an area that may be determined by the Environment Agency),
and

168.1.96G.3.b

impose conditions on those permits relating to nutrients in treated effluent
discharged by those plants—

168.1.96G.3.b.i

under Chapter 3 of Part 2 of the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales)
Regulations 2016, and

168.1.96G.3.b.ii

for the relevant purpose.

168.1.96G.4

The “relevant purpose” is ensuring that, on and after the applicable date, the
overall effect on the habitats site associated with the catchment permitting
area of nutrients in treated effluent discharged by all the plants that
discharge treated effluent into the catchment permitting area is less
significant or the same as the overall effect on the site of nutrients in
treated effluent that would be discharged by those plants if—

168.1.96G.4.a

the standard concentration applied to nutrient significant plants, and

168.1.96G.4.b

the nutrient significant plants were (on that basis) meeting the nutrient
pollution standard on and after the applicable date.

168.1.96G.5

For that purpose, a condition imposed on an environmental permit in pursuance
of subsection  (3) (b)  may, in particular—

168.1.96G.5.a

require, or have the effect of requiring, that the concentration of nutrients
in treated effluent discharged by a plant is higher or lower than, or equal
to, the standard concentration;

168.1.96G.5.b

relate to any or all of the plants mentioned in subsection  (3) (a) ,
including the concentration of nutrients in treated effluent discharged by
those plants.

168.1.96G.6

In subsection  (4) —

168.1.96G.6.a

the “ applicable date ” means—

168.1.96G.6.a.i

where the designation under section  96C (1)  or  (2)  of the area that is the
catchment permitting area takes effect during the initial period, 1 April
2030, or

168.1.96G.6.a.ii

where that designation takes effect after the initial period, the date
specified under section  96C (4) (d)  in that designation;

168.1.96G.6.b

a habitats site is “associated” with a catchment permitting area if water
released into the area would drain into the site.

168.1.96G.7

The duty in subsection  (3)  applies in relation to the grant of an
environmental permit for a plant that discharges (or will discharge) treated
effluent into the catchment permitting area as if—

168.1.96G.7.a

paragraph  (a)  were omitted, and

168.1.96G.7.b

in paragraph  (b) —

168.1.96G.7.b.i

for “those permits” there were substituted  “the permit” ;

168.1.96G.7.b.ii

for “those plants” there were substituted  “the plant” ;

168.1.96G.7.b.iii

for “Chapter 3” there were substituted  “Chapter 2” .

168.1.96G.8

It is for the Environment Agency to determine the overall effect on a habitats
site of nutrients in treated effluent.

168.1.96G.9

Regulations made by the Secretary of State may specify how such determinations
are to be made.

168.1.96G.10

In this section “ nutrients ”, in relation to an area designated under—

168.1.96G.10.a

section  96C (1) , means nutrients in water comprising nitrogen or compounds
of nitrogen;

168.1.96G.10.b

section  96C (2) , means nutrients in water comprising phosphorus or compounds
of phosphorus.

########## Section 

168.1.96H

168.1.96H.1

A designation under section  96G (1)  or revocation of such a designation
under subsection  (3) (c) —

168.1.96H.1.a

must be in writing,

168.1.96H.1.b

must be published as soon as practicable after being made, and

168.1.96H.1.c

takes effect in accordance with subsection  (3)  or  (4)  (as appropriate).

168.1.96H.2

A designation under section  96G (1)  may be made at the same time, or at any
time after the time, that the designation under section  96C (1)  or  (2)  of
the area as a sensitive catchment area is made.

168.1.96H.3

A designation under section  96G (1) —

168.1.96H.3.a

if made before the time that the designation under section  96C (1)  or  (2)
takes effect, takes effect at the same time as that designation;

168.1.96H.3.b

if made after the time that the designation under section  96C (1)  or  (2)
takes effect, takes effect on the day specified in it;

168.1.96H.3.c

may be revoked.

168.1.96H.4

A revocation under subsection  (3) (c) —

168.1.96H.4.a

takes effect—

168.1.96H.4.a.i

on the day specified in the revocation, or

168.1.96H.4.a.ii

if none is specified, on the day on which it is made;

168.1.96H.4.b

has no effect in relation to the designation of the area under section  96C
(1)  or  (2) ;

168.1.96H.4.c

may specify the upgrade date that is to apply in relation to nutrient
significant plants (see section  96E (3) ).

168.1.96H.5

In determining whether an upgrade date should be specified under subsection
(4) (c) , the Secretary of State may take into account, in particular, advice
from, or guidance published by, Natural England or the Environment Agency.

########## Information about catchment areas and nutrient significant plants

168.1.96I

168.1.96I.1

The Secretary of State must maintain and publish online a map showing—

168.1.96I.1.a

all the nitrogen sensitive catchment areas, and

168.1.96I.1.b

all the phosphorus sensitive catchment areas.

168.1.96I.2

As soon as practicable after making a designation under section  96C
(sensitive catchment areas), the Secretary of State must publish the revised
map online.

168.1.96I.3

The Secretary of State must maintain and publish online a document listing—

168.1.96I.3.a

all plants that are or have been—

168.1.96I.3.a.i

nitrogen significant plants, or

168.1.96I.3.a.ii

phosphorus significant plants;

168.1.96I.3.b

in relation to each plant listed under paragraph  (a) —

168.1.96I.3.b.i

the upgrade date that applies for the time being;

168.1.96I.3.b.ii

if the plant becomes, or ceases to be, an exempt plant in relation to the
related nutrient pollution standard, that fact and the date on which it
occurred;

168.1.96I.3.b.iii

where the associated catchment area for a plant is not a catchment permitting
area, the figure specified in section  96F (1) (a) (i)  or  (2) (a) (i) ,
under section  96C (4) (e)  or  96D (5)  or by virtue of regulations made
under section  96D (11)  (total nitrogen concentration or total phosphorus
concentration) that applies to the plant;

168.1.96I.3.b.iv

where a direction relating to the plant and the related nutrient pollution
standard is made or revoked under regulation 85C or 110B of the Conservation
of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/1012 ) (disapplication of
assumption that the plant will meet the standard on and after the upgrade date
or applicable date), that fact and the date on which the direction or
revocation takes effect;

168.1.96I.3.c

all catchment permitting areas.

168.1.96I.4

Where any change occurs in the information required to be listed, the
Secretary of State must, as soon as practicable, publish a revised document
online.

########## Section 

168.1.96J

168.1.96J.1

The duty of a sewerage undertaker under section  96B  is enforceable under
section 18—

168.1.96J.1.a

by the Secretary of State, or

168.1.96J.1.b

with the consent of, or in accordance with a general authorisation given by,
the Secretary of State, by the Authority.

168.1.96J.2

The Environment Agency must exercise its functions (whether under
environmental permitting regulations or otherwise) so as to secure compliance
by sewerage undertakers with the duty imposed by section  96B ; those
functions include, in particular, functions of determining—

168.1.96J.2.a

whether to grant or vary any permit under environmental permitting
regulations, or

168.1.96J.2.b

any conditions to be included in any such permit.

168.1.96J.3

The Environment Agency must exercise its functions under the Environmental
Damage (Prevention and Remediation) (England) Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/810
) so as to secure compliance by sewerage undertakers with the duties imposed
by those regulations to prevent and remediate environmental damage (within the
meaning of those regulations) that is treated as occurring by regulation 9A of
those regulations (nutrient significant sewage disposal works: environmental
damage).

168.1.96J.4

Nothing in section  96B  or  96G  or this section affects—

168.1.96J.4.a

any other obligation of a sewerage undertaker relating to nutrient levels in
treated effluent of a plant, or any remedy available in respect of
contravention of any such obligation;

168.1.96J.4.b

any power to impose an obligation relating to nutrient levels in treated
effluent of a plant (including by means of a condition included in a permit
under environmental permitting regulations); and, in particular, nothing in
those sections or this section is to be taken to preclude any such power being
exercised so as to require a lower concentration of total nitrogen or lower
concentration of total phosphorus in treated effluent of a plant than section
96B  requires.

########## Powers to amend sections 

168.1.96K

168.1.96K.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend any plant capacity for the
time being specified in section  96D (1) (a)  or  (2) (a) .

168.1.96K.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may not have effect in relation to an area
that is a sensitive catchment area when the regulations are made.

168.1.96K.3

Subject to that, regulations under subsection  (1) —

168.1.96K.3.a

may, in particular, amend section  96D  so that different plant capacities are
specified in relation to the nitrogen nutrient pollution standard and the
phosphorus nutrient pollution standard;

168.1.96K.3.b

may, where different plant capacities will apply for different purposes or
different areas as a result of regulations under subsection  (1) , amend
section  96D  so as to specify those capacities and the purposes or areas for
which they apply.

168.1.96K.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

168.1.96K.4.a

amend section  96F (1) (a) (i)  so as to substitute a different concentration
of total nitrogen;

168.1.96K.4.b

amend section  96F (2) (a) (i)  so as to substitute a different concentration
of total phosphorus.

168.1.96K.5

Regulations under subsection  (4)  may not have effect in relation to an area
that is a sensitive catchment area when the regulations are made.

168.1.96K.6

Where, as a result of the regulations, different concentrations will apply for
different purposes or different areas (including different plants within an
area), the regulations may amend section  96F (1) (a) (i)  or  (2) (a) (i)  to
specify those concentrations and the purposes or areas for (or plants within
an area to) which they apply.

168.1.96K.7

A statutory instrument containing regulations under subsection  (1)  or  (4)
may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and
approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

168.1.96K.8

If a draft of a statutory instrument containing regulations under subsection
(1)  or  (4)  would, apart from this subsection, be treated for the purposes
of the standing orders of either House of Parliament as a hybrid instrument,
it is to proceed in that House as if it were not a hybrid instrument.

########## Sections 

168.1.96L

168.1.96L.1

This section applies for the purposes of sections  96B  to  96K ,  96M  and
96N .

168.1.96L.2

In those sections (and this section)—

      “ associated catchment area ”—         in relation to a plant that is a
nitrogen significant plant or is exempt in relation to the nitrogen nutrient
pollution standard, means the nitrogen sensitive catchment area into which it
discharges;           in relation to a plant that is a phosphorus significant
plant or is exempt in relation to the phosphorus nutrient pollution standard,
means the phosphorus sensitive catchment area into which it discharges;
“ catchment permitting area ” means a sensitive catchment area designated
under section  96G (1)  for the time being;           “ environmental permit ”
means a permit granted under Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the Environmental
Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016; and a reference to a
condition imposed on such a permit is to be construed in accordance with those
regulations;           “ environmental permitting regulations ” means—
the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 ( S.I.
2016/1154 ) (as they have effect from time to time), or           any other
provision made after the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023 is passed that
is, or could have been, made under section 2 of the Pollution Prevention and
Control Act 1999;                 “ exempt plant ”, in relation to a nutrient
pollution standard, has the meaning given by section  96D ;           “
habitats site ” means a European site within the meaning of the Conservation
of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/1012 ) (see regulation
8);           “ the initial period ” has the meaning given by section  96E (4)
;           “ nitrogen nutrient pollution standard ”, in relation to
references to a nitrogen significant plant meeting the standard, has the
meaning given by section  96F (1) ;           “ nitrogen sensitive catchment
area ” means an area designated under section  96C (1) ;           “ nitrogen
significant plant ” has the meaning given by section  96B (3) ;           “
nutrient pollution standard ” means the nitrogen nutrient pollution standard
or the phosphorus nutrient pollution standard;           “ nutrient
significant plant ” means—         a nitrogen significant plant, or
a phosphorus significant plant;                 “ phosphorus nutrient
pollution standard ”, in relation to references to a phosphorus significant
plant meeting the standard, has the meaning given by section  96F (2) ;
“ phosphorus sensitive catchment area ” means an area designated under section
96C (2) ;           “ phosphorus significant plant ” has the meaning given by
section  96B (4) ;           “ plant ” means a sewage disposal works;
“ related nutrient pollution standard ”, in relation to a sensitive catchment
area or a plant, means—         if (or so far as) the area is a nitrogen
sensitive catchment area or the plant is a nitrogen significant plant, the
nitrogen nutrient pollution standard;           if (or so far as) the area is
a phosphorus sensitive catchment area or the plant is a phosphorus significant
plant, the phosphorus nutrient pollution standard;                 “ sensitive
catchment area ” means—         a nitrogen sensitive catchment area, or
a phosphorus sensitive catchment area;                 “ standard
concentration ”, in relation to the nutrient pollution standard that applies
to a plant, means the concentration specified in section  96F (1) (a) (i)  or
(2) (a) (i)  on the date that the designation of the associated catchment area
as a sensitive catchment area takes effect;           “ treated effluent ” has
the meaning given by section  96F (3) ;           “ upgrade date ”, in
relation to a plant that discharges into a sensitive catchment area, has the
meaning given by section  96E .

168.1.96L.3

References to a plant discharging into a sensitive catchment area are to the
plant discharging treated effluent into the area.

168.1.96L.4

References to the sewerage system of a sewerage undertaker have the meaning
given by section 17BA(7).

########## New and altered plants: modifications

168.1.96M

168.1.96M.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide for sections  96B  to  96L
to apply with prescribed modifications in relation to any plant that, after
the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023 is passed—

168.1.96M.1.a

operates for the first time, or

168.1.96M.1.b

is altered.

This is subject to subsection  (3) .

168.1.96M.2

Regulations under this section may in particular provide for sections  96C (5)
and  96D (4)  and  (10)  to apply as if they specified periods other than 7
years.

168.1.96M.3

But regulations under this section may not modify section  96F (1)  or  (2)
or section  96G (4)  so as to apply a higher concentration of total nitrogen
or higher concentration of total phosphorus than would otherwise apply.

########## Setting and enforcing nutrient pollution standards

168.1.96N

168.1.96N.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the setting and
enforcing of nutrient pollution standards.

168.1.96N.2

The Secretary of State may only exercise the power under subsection  (1)  if
the Secretary of State considers that the provisions about the setting and
enforcing of nutrient pollution standards will be at least as effective as the
provision already in force under sections  96B  to  96M , the Environmental
Damage (Prevention and Remediation) (England) Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 810/2015
) or this section as a result of the exercise of this power, including in
relation to—

168.1.96N.2.a

overall environmental protection (within the meaning of section 45 of the
Environment Act 2021),

168.1.96N.2.b

nutrient pollution levels discharged by plants or across catchment areas,

168.1.96N.2.c

enforcement, or

168.1.96N.2.d

costs.

168.1.96N.3

The regulations may, in particular—

168.1.96N.3.a

amend, repeal, revoke or otherwise modify—

168.1.96N.3.a.i

sections  96B  to  96M ,

168.1.96N.3.a.ii

the Environmental Damage (Prevention and Remediation) (England) Regulations
2015, or

168.1.96N.3.a.iii

provision made under this section;

168.1.96N.3.b

provide for a sewerage undertaker’s compliance with the duty under section
96B  (or an equivalent) to be determined by reference to matters other than
the concentration of nitrogen or phosphorous in treated effluent discharged by
a plant;

168.1.96N.3.c

include provision applying or corresponding to any provision in sections  96B
to  96M  (with or without modifications);

168.1.96N.3.d

include provision about the establishment of schemes involving sewerage
undertakers and others for the purpose of encouraging or requiring sewerage
undertakers to arrange or contribute to action in respect of the effect of
nitrogen or phosphorous (from any source) on a habitats site;

168.1.96N.3.e

make different provision for different purposes or different areas.

168.2

In section 213 of the Water Industry Act 1991 (powers to make regulations), in
subsection (1), insert  “ 96K ,  96N ,” —

168.2.a

if this subsection comes into force before section 82(2) of the Environment
Act 2021, before “or 105A”;

168.2.b

otherwise, before “105A”.

#### Planning: assessments of effects on certain sites

169

Schedule 15  amends the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017
( S.I. 2017/1012 ) to require certain assumptions to be made in certain
circumstances about nutrient pollution standards (see  section 168 ).

#### Remediation

170

170.1

The Environmental Damage (Prevention and Remediation) (England) Regulations
2015 ( S.I. 2015/810 ) are amended as follows.

170.2

After regulation 9 insert—

########## Nutrient significant sewage disposal works: environmental damage

170.2.9A

170.2.9A.1

This regulation applies where a sewerage undertaker whose sewerage system
includes a nutrient significant plant fails to secure that the plant is able
to meet the related nutrient pollution standard by the upgrade date.

170.2.9A.2

Any excess nutrient pollution is to be treated for the purposes of these
regulations as damage to the related habitats site that is environmental
damage caused by an activity of the sewerage undertaker that—

170.2.9A.2.a

requires a permit under the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales)
Regulations 2016, and

170.2.9A.2.b

falls within Schedule 2.

170.2.9A.3

In paragraph  (2) —

      “ excess nutrient pollution ”, in relation to a nutrient significant
plant and a related nutrient pollution standard, means the amount by which the
total nutrient pollution discharged in treated effluent by the plant during
the period—         beginning with the upgrade date, and           ending with
the day the plant first meets the related nutrient pollution standard,
exceeds the total nutrient pollution that it would have discharged in treated
effluent during that period had it met the related nutrient pollution standard
on and after the upgrade date;           “ total nutrient pollution ” means—
in relation to the nitrogen nutrient pollution standard, total nitrogen, and
in relation to the phosphorus nutrient pollution standard, total phosphorus.

170.2.9A.4

Where—

170.2.9A.4.a

the nutrient significant plant referred to in paragraph  (1)  is a plant that
discharges treated effluent into a catchment permitting area (see section  96G
of the Water Industry Act 1991), and

170.2.9A.4.b

the sewerage undertaker has failed to comply with a condition in the
environmental permit for the plant imposed in pursuance of subsection  (3) (b)
of that section,

the definition of “excess nutrient pollution” in paragraph  (3)  is subject to
the following modifications.

170.2.9A.5

In a case where the condition relates to the total nutrient pollution
discharged by the plant specifically, references in that definition to the
“upgrade date” are to be read as the “applicable date”.

170.2.9A.6

In a case where the condition relates to the total nutrient pollution
discharged by all plants that discharge into the associated catchment area,
that definition is to be read as if—

170.2.9A.6.a

in the words before paragraph (a), after “by the plant” there were inserted
“and all other plants that discharged into the associated catchment area for
that plant” ,

170.2.9A.6.b

in paragraph (a), for “upgrade date” there were substituted  “applicable date”
, and

170.2.9A.6.c

in the words after paragraph (b)—

170.2.9A.6.c.i

for “that it” there were substituted  “that both it and those other plants” ,
and

170.2.9A.6.c.ii

for “upgrade date” there were substituted  “applicable date” .

170.2.9A.7

For the purposes of paragraph  (3)  as modified by paragraph  (5)  or  (6) ,
the “applicable date” is to be determined in accordance with section  96G (6)
(a)  of the Water Industry Act 1991.

170.2.9A.8

It is for the Environment Agency to determine the excess nutrient pollution
discharged by a plant and in doing so the Environment Agency may have regard
to—

170.2.9A.8.a

the concentration of total nitrogen or concentration of total phosphorus
determined for the purposes of section  96F  of the Water Industry Act 1991
(see in particular subsection  (5)  of that section), and

170.2.9A.8.b

the volume of treated effluent discharged by the plant, as determined by the
Environment Agency.

170.2.9A.9

Schedule 2ZA  sets out modifications of these regulations that apply where
this regulation applies.

170.2.9A.10

In this regulation—

      “ related habitats site ”, in relation to a nutrient significant plant,
means the habitats site by reference to which the associated catchment area is
designated under section  96C  of the Water Industry Act 1991;           “
sewerage system ”, in relation to a sewerage undertaker, has the meaning given
by section 17BA(7) of the Water Industry Act 1991.

170.2.9A.11

For the purposes of this regulation, the following terms have the meanings
given by section  96L  of the Water Industry Act 1991—

      “associated catchment area”;           “catchment permitting area”;
“environmental permit”;           “habitats site”;           “nitrogen
nutrient pollution standard”;           “nutrient significant plant”;
“phosphorus nutrient pollution standard”;           “plant”;
“related nutrient pollution standard”;           “sensitive catchment area”;
“treated effluent”;           “upgrade date”;

and references to a nutrient significant plant meeting the related nutrient
pollution standard are to be read in accordance with section  96F (1)  or  (2)
of that Act.

170.3

After Schedule 2 insert—

  Modifications where regulation  9A  applies

Regulation  9A

170.3.1

In relation to anything that is treated as environmental damage by regulation
9A , these regulations apply with the following modifications.

170.3.2

Regulation 17 does not apply.

170.3.3

Regulation 18 applies as if—

170.3.3.a

the opening words of paragraph (1) provided “Where excess nutrient pollution
is treated as environmental damage by regulation  9A (2) , the enforcing
authority must notify the responsible operator—”;

170.3.3.b

for paragraph (a) there were substituted—

170.3.3.b.a

of the environmental damage;

.

170.3.4

Regulation 18A applies with the omission of paragraph (2).

170.3.5

Regulation 19(3) applies as if for paragraphs (a) to (e) (but not the “or”
immediately following paragraph (e)) there were substituted—

170.3.5.a

the responsible operator did not fail to secure that the nutrient significant
plant in question is able to meet the related nutrient pollution standard by
the upgrade date;

170.3.5.b

the determination by the Environment Agency of the excess nutrient pollution
mentioned in regulation  9A (2)  was unreasonable;

.

170.3.6

Regulation 25(2) applies as if—

170.3.6.a

for paragraph (a) there were substituted—

170.3.6.a.a

determining the excess nutrient pollution mentioned in regulation  9A (2) ;

;

170.3.6.b

paragraph (b) were omitted.

### Development corporations

#### Local authority proposals and oversight

##### Locally-led urban development corporations

171

171.1

Section 134 of the Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980 (urban
development areas) is amended as set out in subsections  (2)  and  (3) .

171.2

After subsection (1A) insert—

171.2.1B

The Secretary of State may, by order made by statutory instrument, designate
any area of land in England as an urban development area if—

171.2.1B.a

a proposal has been made to the Secretary of State under section  134A (1)  in
relation to the area of land, and

171.2.1B.b

the Secretary of State is satisfied that it would be expedient in the local
interest—

171.2.1B.b.i

to designate the area of land as an urban development area, and

171.2.1B.b.ii

to establish a development corporation for the area in consequence of the
proposal.

171.3

After section 134 of the Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980 insert—

########### Local authority proposal for designation of locally-led urban development area in England

171.3.134A

171.3.134A.1

A local authority in England, or two or more local authorities in England
acting jointly, may propose to the Secretary of State that the Secretary of
State should designate an area of land (the “proposal area”) as an urban
development area under section 134 (1B) .

171.3.134A.2

A proposal under subsection  (1)  (a “locally-led proposal”) must—

171.3.134A.2.a

state the proposing authority’s proposals as to—

171.3.134A.2.a.i

the name of the development corporation that would be established as a result
of the proposal, and

171.3.134A.2.a.ii

which local authority or local authorities should be designated as the
oversight authority for that development corporation, and

171.3.134A.2.b

include a map of the proposal area.

171.3.134A.3

A locally-led proposal may also include proposals about any other matter about
which the Secretary of State would be able to make provision in respect of the
development corporation by order or regulations under this Part.

171.3.134A.4

A locally-led proposal may relate to separate parcels of land.

171.3.134A.5

A local authority may make a locally-led proposal only if—

171.3.134A.5.a

the proposal area falls wholly within the area of the local authority, or

171.3.134A.5.b

where it makes the proposal jointly with one or more other local authorities,
the proposal area falls—

171.3.134A.5.b.i

wholly or partly within the area of each of them, and

171.3.134A.5.b.ii

wholly within their combined areas.

171.3.134A.6

A proposing authority may make a locally-led proposal only if—

171.3.134A.6.a

the proposing authority has consulted the persons mentioned in subsection  (7)
,

171.3.134A.6.b

the proposing authority has had regard to any comments made in response by the
consultees, and

171.3.134A.6.c

if those comments include comments by a local authority or the Greater London
Authority that the proposing authority does not accept, the proposing
authority has published a statement giving the reasons for the non-acceptance.

171.3.134A.7

The persons referred to in subsection  (6) (a)  are—

171.3.134A.7.a

persons who appear to the proposing authority to represent those living in, or
in the vicinity of, the proposal area;

171.3.134A.7.b

persons who appear to the proposing authority to represent businesses with any
premises in, or in the vicinity of, the proposal area;

171.3.134A.7.c

each Member of Parliament whose parliamentary constituency includes any part
of the proposal area;

171.3.134A.7.d

each local authority for an area which falls wholly or partly within the
proposal area (other than the proposing authority or a constituent council of
the proposing authority);

171.3.134A.7.e

in relation to an area in Greater London, the Greater London Authority;

171.3.134A.7.f

any other person whom the proposing authority considers it appropriate to
consult.

171.3.134A.8

A local authority may be proposed as an oversight authority under subsection
(2) (a) (ii)  only if the proposal area is wholly or partly within the area of
the local authority.

171.3.134A.9

Where the proposing authority proposes, under subsection  (2) (a) (ii) , that
two or more local authorities should be designated as the oversight authority,
it may also propose—

171.3.134A.9.a

that a specified function of an oversight authority should be exercisable by
one of those local authorities, or

171.3.134A.9.b

that a specified function of an oversight authority should be exercisable by
two or more of those local authorities jointly.

For this purpose, “ specified ” means specified in the proposal.

171.3.134A.10

In this section—

      “ local authority ” means—         a district council,           a
county council,           a London borough council, or           the Common
Council;                 “ locally-led proposal ” has the meaning given by
subsection  (2) ;           “ proposing authority ” means—         the local
authority which makes a locally-led proposal, or           if two or more
local authorities make such a proposal, those authorities acting jointly;
and where the proposing authority consists of two or more authorities acting
jointly, each is a “constituent council” of the proposing authority.

171.4

Section 135 (urban development corporations) is amended as set out in
subsections  (5)  and  (6) .

171.5

In subsection (1A), after “in England” insert  “designated under section
134(1)” .

171.6

After subsection (4) insert—

171.6.4A

Subsections  (4B)  and  (4C)  apply where the Secretary of State makes an
order under this section establishing a locally-led urban development
corporation in consequence of a proposal under section  134A (1) .

171.6.4B

The order must—

171.6.4B.a

establish the corporation with the proposed name,

171.6.4B.b

give effect to any proposal made by virtue of section  134A (3)  as to the
number of members to be prescribed under paragraph  1A (2)  of Schedule 26,

171.6.4B.c

designate as the oversight authority the local authority or local authorities
proposed as such, and

171.6.4B.d

give effect to any proposal made by virtue of section  134A (9)  (allocation
of functions where oversight authority consists of more than one local
authority).

171.6.4C

The Secretary of State must exercise other functions under this Act so as to
give effect to any other proposals made by virtue of section  134A (3) .

171.7

After section 135 insert—

########### Oversight of locally-led urban development area

171.7.135A

171.7.135A.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about how an
oversight authority is to oversee the regeneration of a locally-led urban
development area.

171.7.135A.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may, for example—

171.7.135A.2.a

provide that an oversight authority is to exercise specified functions under
this Part of this Act, other than a power to make regulations or other
instruments of a legislative character, which would otherwise be exercisable
by the Secretary of State, the Treasury or any other Minister of the Crown;

171.7.135A.2.b

provide that an oversight authority is to exercise such functions subject to
specified conditions or limitations;

171.7.135A.2.c

provide that specified functions under this Part of this Act may be exercised
only with the consent of an oversight authority;

171.7.135A.2.d

make provision about the membership of a locally-led urban development
corporation;

171.7.135A.2.e

modify provisions of this Part of this Act;

171.7.135A.2.f

make different provision for different purposes;

171.7.135A.2.g

make incidental, supplementary or consequential provision.

171.7.135A.3

In this section “ specified ” means specified by regulations under this
section.

171.7.135A.4

Regulations under this section are to be made by statutory instrument.

171.7.135A.5

A statutory instrument containing regulations under this section may not be
made until approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

##### Development corporations for locally-led new towns

172

172.1

The New Towns Act 1981 is amended as follows.

172.2

After section 1 insert—

########### Local authority proposal for designation of locally-led new town in England

172.2.1ZA

172.2.1ZA.1

A local authority in England, or two or more local authorities in England
acting jointly, may propose to the Secretary of State that the Secretary of
State should designate an area of land (the “proposal area”) as the site of a
proposed new town.

172.2.1ZA.2

A proposal under subsection  (1)  (a “locally-led proposal”) must—

172.2.1ZA.2.a

state the proposing authority’s proposals as to—

172.2.1ZA.2.a.i

the name of the development corporation that would be established as a result
of the proposal, and

172.2.1ZA.2.a.ii

which local authority or local authorities should be designated as the
oversight authority for that development corporation, and

172.2.1ZA.2.b

include a map of the proposal area.

172.2.1ZA.3

A locally-led proposal may also include proposals about any other matter about
which the Secretary of State would be able to make provision in respect of the
development corporation by order or regulations under this Act.

172.2.1ZA.4

A local authority may make a locally-led proposal only if—

172.2.1ZA.4.a

the proposal area falls wholly within the area of the local authority, or

172.2.1ZA.4.b

where it makes the proposal jointly with one or more other local authorities,
the proposal area falls—

172.2.1ZA.4.b.i

wholly or partly within the area of each of them, and

172.2.1ZA.4.b.ii

wholly within their combined areas.

172.2.1ZA.5

A proposing authority may make a locally-led proposal only if—

172.2.1ZA.5.a

the proposing authority has consulted the persons mentioned in subsection  (6)
,

172.2.1ZA.5.b

the proposing authority has had regard to any comments made in response by the
consultees, and

172.2.1ZA.5.c

those comments include comments by a local authority or the Greater London
Authority that the proposing authority does not accept, the proposing
authority has published a statement giving the reasons for the non-acceptance.

172.2.1ZA.6

The persons referred to in subsection  (5) (a)  are—

172.2.1ZA.6.a

persons who appear to the proposing authority to represent those living in, or
in the vicinity of, the proposal area;

172.2.1ZA.6.b

persons who appear to the proposing authority to represent businesses with any
premises in, or in the vicinity of, the proposal area;

172.2.1ZA.6.c

each Member of Parliament whose parliamentary constituency includes any part
of the proposal area;

172.2.1ZA.6.d

each local authority for an area which falls wholly or partly within the
proposal area (other than the proposing authority or a constituent council of
the proposing authority);

172.2.1ZA.6.e

in relation to an area in Greater London, the Greater London Authority;

172.2.1ZA.6.f

any other person whom the proposing authority considers it appropriate to
consult.

172.2.1ZA.7

A local authority may be proposed as the oversight authority under subsection
(2) (a) (ii)  only if the proposal area is wholly or partly within the area of
the local authority.

172.2.1ZA.8

Where the proposing authority proposes, under subsection  (2) (a) (ii) , that
two or more local authorities should be designated as the oversight authority,
it may also propose—

172.2.1ZA.8.a

that a specified function should be exercisable by one of those local
authorities, or

172.2.1ZA.8.b

that a specified function should be exercisable by two or more of those local
authorities jointly.

For this purpose, “ specified ” means specified in the proposal.

172.2.1ZA.9

In this section—

      “ local authority ” means—         a district council,           a
county council, or           a London borough council;                 “
locally-led proposal ” has the meaning given by subsection  (2) ;           “
proposing authority ” means—         the local authority which makes a
locally-led proposal, or           if two or more local authorities make such
a proposal, those authorities acting jointly;         and where the proposing
authority consists of two or more authorities acting jointly, each is a
“constituent council” of the proposing authority.

########### Designation of locally-led new town in England

172.2.1ZB

172.2.1ZB.1

This section applies where a proposal has been made to the Secretary of State
under section  1ZA (1)  in relation to an area of land in England.

172.2.1ZB.2

The Secretary of State may make an order under this section designating the
area as the site of a proposed new town if satisfied that it would be
expedient in the local interest that the area should be developed as a new
town by a corporation established under this Act in consequence of the
proposal.

172.2.1ZB.3

Subsections (3) and (5) of section 1 apply to an order under this section as
they apply to an order under that section.

172.3

In section 3 (establishment of development corporations for new towns)—

172.3.a

in subsection (1), after “1” insert  “or  1ZB ” ;

172.3.b

in subsection (2A), after “in England” insert  “designated under section 1” ;

172.3.c

after subsection (2A) insert—

172.3.c.2B

Subsections  (2C)  and  (2D)  apply where the Secretary of State makes an
order under this section establishing a development corporation for a locally-
led new town in consequence of a proposal under section  1ZA (1) .

172.3.c.2C

The order must—

172.3.c.2C.a

establish the corporation with the proposed name,

172.3.c.2C.b

give effect to any proposal made by virtue of section  1ZA (3)  as to the
number of members to be prescribed under subsection  (2ZB) ,

172.3.c.2C.c

designate as the oversight authority the local authority or local authorities
proposed as such, and

172.3.c.2C.d

give effect to any proposal made by virtue of section  1ZA (8)  (allocation of
functions where oversight authority consists of more than one local
authority).

172.3.c.2D

The Secretary of State must exercise other functions under this Act so as to
give effect to any other proposals made by virtue of section  1ZA (3) .

172.4

In section 77 (regulations and orders), in each of subsections (3), (3B) and
(3C), after “1,” insert  “1ZB,” .

##### Minor and consequential amendments

173

Schedule 16  makes minor and consequential amendments in connection with
sections  171  and  172 .

#### Planning functions

##### Planning functions of urban development corporations

174

174.1

The Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980 is amended as follows.

174.2

In section 149 (urban development corporation as planning authority)—

174.2.a

after subsection (1) insert—

174.2.a.1A

If the Secretary of State so provides by order, an urban development
corporation for an area in England shall be the local planning authority for
the whole or any portion of its area for such purposes of Part 2 or 3 of the
Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 as may be prescribed.

;

174.2.b

in subsection (2), for “The order” substitute  “An order under subsection (1)
or (1A)” ;

174.2.c

after subsection (2) insert—

174.2.c.2A

If the Secretary of State so provides by order, an urban development
corporation, other than a locally-led urban development corporation, for an
area in England shall be the minerals and waste planning authority for the
whole or any portion of its area for the purposes of Part 2 of the Planning
and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004.

;

174.2.d

in subsection (3)—

174.2.d.i

in paragraph (a), omit “of the 1990 Act and the Planning (Listed Buildings and
Conservation Areas) Act 1990”;

174.2.d.ii

in paragraph (b), omit “of those Acts”;

174.2.e

after subsection (3) insert—

174.2.e.3A

A provision mentioned in paragraph  1 ,  3  or  5  of Part 1 of Schedule 29
may be specified under subsection (3)(a) only in relation to an urban
development corporation for an area in England.

;

174.2.f

after subsection (4) insert—

174.2.f.4A

If the Secretary of State so provides by order, an urban development
corporation for an area in England shall have, in the whole or any portion of
its area, the functions conferred on the relevant planning authority by
Schedule 8 to the Electricity Act 1989 so far as it applies to applications
for consent under section 37 of that Act.

174.3

After section 149 insert—

########### Arrangements for discharge of, or assistance with, planning functions in England

174.3.149A

174.3.149A.1

Subsection  (2)  applies in relation to any function that an urban development
corporation has by virtue of an order under section 149(1).

174.3.149A.2

The corporation may make arrangements for the discharge of the function by the
council (if any) which would have the function but for the order.

174.3.149A.3

Where arrangements are in force under sub-paragraph  (2)  for the discharge of
a function by a council—

174.3.149A.3.a

the council may arrange for the discharge of the function by a committee, sub-
committee or officer of the council, and

174.3.149A.3.b

section 101(2) of the Local Government Act 1972 (delegation by committees and
sub-committees) applies in relation to the function as it applies in relation
to functions of the council.

174.3.149A.4

Arrangements under subsection  (2)  for the discharge of a function do not
prevent the urban development corporation from exercising the function.

174.3.149A.5

Subsection  (6)  applies in relation to any function that an urban development
corporation has by virtue of an order under section 149 (1A)  or  (2A) .

174.3.149A.6

The corporation may seek assistance in connection with the discharge of the
function from the council (if any) which would have the function but for the
order; and that council may give such assistance.

174.3.149A.7

In this section, “ council ” means a county council, district council or
London borough council or the Common Council.

174.4

In Part 1 of Schedule 29 (planning enactments conferring functions capable of
being assigned to urban development corporations)—

174.4.a

at the beginning insert—

174.4.a.1

Section 17 of the Land Compensation Act 1961.

;

174.4.b

the paragraph referring to enactments in TCPA 1990 becomes paragraph 2;

174.4.c

after that paragraph insert—

174.4.c.3

Sections 171BA, 171E,  172ZA , 172A, 191, 192, 225, 225A, 225C, 225F to 225H,
225J and 225K of the 1990 Act.

;

174.4.d

the paragraph referring to enactments in the Listed Buildings Act becomes
paragraph 4;

174.4.e

after that paragraph insert—

174.4.e.5

Section  44AA  of the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act
1990.

##### Planning functions of new town development corporations

175

175.1

The New Towns Act 1981 is amended as follows.

175.2

After section 7 insert—

########### Development corporation as planning authority in England

175.2.7A

175.2.7A.1

This section applies in relation to a development corporation established for
the purposes of a new town in England.

175.2.7A.2

The Secretary of State may provide by order for the corporation to be the
local planning authority for the specified area—

175.2.7A.2.a

for such purposes of Part 3 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990, and in
relation to such kinds of development, as are specified, or

175.2.7A.2.b

for such purposes of Part 2 or 3 of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act
2004 as are specified.

175.2.7A.3

An order under subsection  (2)  may provide—

175.2.7A.3.a

that any enactment relating to local planning authorities is not to apply to
the corporation, or

175.2.7A.3.b

that any such enactment which applies to the corporation is to apply to it
subject to such modifications as are specified.

175.2.7A.4

The Secretary of State may provide by order—

175.2.7A.4.a

for the corporation to have, in the specified area, the functions conferred by
such of the enactments mentioned in Part 1 of Schedule 29 to the Local
Government, Planning and Land Act 1980 as are specified;

175.2.7A.4.b

for such of the enactments mentioned in Part 2 of that Schedule as are
specified in the order to have effect, in relation to the corporation and to
land in the specified area, subject to the modifications set out in that Part;

175.2.7A.4.c

for such of the provisions of that Part 2 as apply for the purposes of the
order to be read, for those purposes, as if—

175.2.7A.4.c.i

any reference to an urban development corporation were a reference to a
development corporation established under section 3 of this Act, and

175.2.7A.4.c.ii

any reference to regenerating an area were a reference to developing a new
town.

175.2.7A.5

An order under subsection  (4)  may provide—

175.2.7A.5.a

that any enactment relating to local planning authorities applies to the
corporation for the purposes of any enactment specified in Schedule 29 to the
Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980 which relates to land in the
specified area by virtue of the order;

175.2.7A.5.b

that any enactment so applied to the corporation applies to it subject to
modifications specified in the order.

175.2.7A.6

The Secretary of State may, if the corporation is not a locally-led
development corporation, provide by order for the corporation to be the
minerals and waste planning authority for the specified area for the purposes
of Part 2 of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004.

175.2.7A.7

The Secretary of State may provide by order that the corporation is to have,
in the specified area, the functions conferred on the relevant planning
authority by Schedule 8 to the Electricity Act 1989 so far as it applies to
applications for consent under section 37 of that Act.

175.2.7A.8

The area specified under any of the preceding subsections must be the whole,
or part, of the area of the new town.

175.2.7A.9

An order under this section may include supplementary or transitional
provision or savings.

175.2.7A.10

In this section “ specified ” means specified in an order under this section.

########### Arrangements for discharge of, or assistance with, planning functions in England

175.2.7B

175.2.7B.1

Subsection  (2)  applies in relation to any function that a development
corporation has by virtue of an order under section  7A (2) (a) .

175.2.7B.2

The corporation may make arrangements for the discharge of the function by the
council (if any) which would have the function but for the order.

175.2.7B.3

Where arrangements are in force under subsection  (2)  for the discharge of a
function by a council—

175.2.7B.3.a

the council may arrange for the discharge of the function by a committee, sub-
committee or officer of the council, and

175.2.7B.3.b

section 101(2) of the Local Government Act 1972 (delegation by committees and
sub-committees) applies in relation to the function as it applies in relation
to functions of the council.

175.2.7B.4

Arrangements under subsection  (2)  for the discharge of a function do not
prevent the development corporation from exercising the function.

175.2.7B.5

Subsection  (6)  applies in relation to any function that a development
corporation has by virtue of an order under section  7A (2) (b)  or  (6) .

175.2.7B.6

The corporation may seek assistance in connection with the discharge of the
function from the council (if any) which would have the function but for the
order; and that council may give such assistance.

175.2.7B.7

In this section, “ council ” means a county council, district council or
London borough council.

175.3

In Schedule 3 (constitution and proceedings of development corporations),
after paragraph 10 insert—

########### Delegation of planning functions

175.3.10A

175.3.10A.1

This paragraph applies in relation to any function conferred on the
corporation by virtue of an order under section  7A  (planning functions of
corporations in England).

175.3.10A.2

The corporation may appoint committees and such committees may appoint sub-
committees.

175.3.10A.3

Anything which is authorised or required to be done by the corporation—

175.3.10A.3.a

may be done by any member of the corporation or of its staff who is authorised
for the purpose either generally or specifically;

175.3.10A.3.b

may be done by a committee or sub-committee which is so authorised.

175.3.10A.4

The corporation may—

175.3.10A.4.a

determine the quorum of a committee or sub-committee;

175.3.10A.4.b

make such arrangements as it thinks appropriate relating to the meetings and
procedure of a committee or sub-committee.

175.3.10A.5

Anything done for the purposes of sub-paragraph  (4)  is subject to directions
given by the Secretary of State.

175.3.10A.6

The validity of anything done by a committee or sub-committee is not affected
by—

175.3.10A.6.a

any vacancy among its members;

175.3.10A.6.b

any defect in the appointment of any of its members.

175.3.10B

175.3.10B.1

This paragraph has effect in relation to the membership of committees and sub-
committees appointed under paragraph  10A .

175.3.10B.2

A committee may consist of—

175.3.10B.2.a

such members of the corporation as it appoints;

175.3.10B.2.b

such other persons as the corporation (with the consent of the Secretary of
State) appoints.

175.3.10B.3

A sub-committee of a committee may consist of—

175.3.10B.3.a

such members of the committee as it appoints;

175.3.10B.3.b

such persons who are members of another committee of the corporation (whether
or not they are members of the corporation) as the committee appoints;

175.3.10B.3.c

such other persons as the corporation (with the consent of the Secretary of
State) appoints.

175.3.10B.4

The membership of a committee or sub-committee—

175.3.10B.4.a

must always include at least one person who is a member of the corporation;

175.3.10B.4.b

must not include any person who is a member of the staff of the corporation.

##### Mayoral development corporation as minerals and waste planning authority

176

176.1

The Localism Act 2011 is amended as follows.

176.2

In section 202 (functions in relation to Town and Country Planning), after
subsection (3) insert—

176.2.3A

The Mayor may decide that the MDC is to be the minerals and waste planning
authority, for the whole or any portion of the area, for the purposes of Part
2 of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004.

176.3

In section 203 (arrangements for discharge of, or assistance with, planning
functions), in subsection (4), after “2004” insert  “, or the minerals and
waste planning authority for the purposes of Part 2 of that Act,” .

176.4

In section 204 (removal or restriction of planning functions), in subsection
(2), after “(3)” insert  “, (3A)” .

##### Minor and consequential amendments

177

Schedule 17  makes amendments consequential on sections  174  and  175 , and
other minor amendments in connection with the planning functions of
development corporations.

#### Membership

##### Removal of restrictions on membership of urban development corporations and new town development corporations

178

178.1

In Schedule 26 to the Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980
(constitution and proceedings etc of urban development corporations)—

178.1.a

in paragraph 1, for the words from “such number” to the end substitute  “the
number of other members determined in accordance with paragraph  1A ” ;

178.1.b

after that paragraph insert—

178.1.b.1A

178.1.b.1A.1

In the case of a corporation established by the Scottish Ministers or the
Welsh Ministers—

178.1.b.1A.1.a

the number of other members must be prescribed by order under section 135, and

178.1.b.1A.1.b

the prescribed number must be—

178.1.b.1A.1.b.i

not less than 5, and

178.1.b.1A.1.b.ii

not more than 11.

178.1.b.1A.2

In the case of a locally-led urban development corporation—

178.1.b.1A.2.a

the number of other members must be prescribed by order under section 135, and

178.1.b.1A.2.b

the prescribed number must be not less than 5.

178.1.b.1A.3

In any other case, the number of other members must be not less than 5.

178.2

In section 3 of the New Towns Act 1981 (establishment of development
corporations)—

178.2.a

in subsection (2), for paragraph (c) substitute—

178.2.a.c

at least one other member.

;

178.2.b

after subsection (2) insert—

178.2.b.2ZA

In the case of a development corporation established by an order under this
section made by the Welsh Ministers—

178.2.b.2ZA.a

the number of members other than the chairman and deputy chairman must be
prescribed by the order, and

178.2.b.2ZA.b

the prescribed number is not to exceed 11.

178.2.b.2ZB

In the case of a locally-led development corporation, the number of members
other than the chairman and deputy chairman must be prescribed by the order.

178.3

Nothing in this section affects any provision of an order made before this
section comes into force.

#### Finance

##### Removal of limits on borrowing of urban development corporations and new town development corporations

179

179.1

In paragraph 8 of Schedule 31 to the Local Government, Planning and Land Act
1980 (aggregate limit on borrowing of urban development corporations)—

179.1.a

in sub-paragraph (1), after “sub-paragraph (2) below” insert  “(save as
excepted by sub-paragraph  (2A) )” ;

179.1.b

after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

179.1.b.2A

But no sum which is—

179.1.b.2A.a

borrowed by, or issued in fulfilment of a guarantee of a debt of, a
corporation for an urban development area in England, and

179.1.b.2A.b

borrowed or issued on or after the date on which section  179  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023 comes into force,

is to count for the purposes of sub-paragraph (2)(a) or (b).

179.2

In section 60 of the New Towns Act 1981 (aggregate limit on borrowing of new
town development corporations)—

179.2.a

in subsection (1), after “sums” insert  “(save as excepted by subsection  (1A)
)” ;

179.2.b

after subsection (1) insert—

179.2.b.1A

No sum which—

179.2.b.1A.a

is advanced to, or borrowed by, a development corporation established for the
purposes of a new town in England, and

179.2.b.1A.b

is advanced or borrowed on or after the date on which section  179  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023 comes into force,

is to count for the purposes of subsection (1)(a) or (d).

### Compulsory purchase

#### Powers

##### Acquisition by local authorities for purposes of regeneration

180

In section 226 of TCPA 1990 (power of local authority to acquire land
compulsorily for development and other planning purposes), after subsection
(1A) insert—

180.1B

In the application of subsections (1) and (1A) in England, “ improvement ”
includes regeneration.

#### Procedure

##### Online publicity

181

181.1

The Acquisition of Land Act 1981 is amended as follows.

181.2

In section 7(1) (definitions), after the definition of “acquiring authority”
insert—

      “ appropriate website ”, in relation to a notice about a proposed
compulsory purchase, means a website which members of the public could
reasonably be expected to find on searching on the internet for information
about the scheme or project that underlies the proposed purchase,

.

181.3

In section 11 (requirement to publish notice of compulsory purchase order in
newspaper)—

181.3.a

for the heading substitute  “Public notices” ;

181.3.b

in subsection (1)—

181.3.b.i

the words from “in two” to “situated” become paragraph (a);

181.3.b.ii

at the end insert

, and

181.3.b.ii.b

for a period of at least 21 days ending with the day specified under
subsection (2)(d), publish a notice in the prescribed form on an appropriate
website.

;

181.3.c

in subsection (2)—

181.3.c.i

in the words before paragraph (a), for “notice” substitute  “notices” ;

181.3.c.ii

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (c);

181.3.c.iii

after paragraph (c) insert—

181.3.c.iii.ca

specify a website on which those copies may be viewed, and

;

181.3.c.iv

for paragraph (d) substitute—

181.3.c.iv.d

specify the final day for making objections to the order, and the manner in
which objections can be made.

;

181.3.d

after subsection (2) insert—

181.3.d.2A

If the confirming authority is satisfied that, because of special
circumstances, it is impracticable for the acquiring authority to make the
copies referred to in subsection (2)(c) available for inspection at an
appropriate place, the confirming authority may direct that the requirement in
subsection (2)(c) (together with that in section 12(1) (ba) ) is not to apply.

;

181.3.e

in subsection (4)(b), omit the words from “(but” to “affixed)”.

181.4

In section 12(1) (requirement to serve notice on certain affected persons)—

181.4.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (b);

181.4.b

after paragraph (b) insert—

181.4.b.ba

(subject to section 11 (2A) ) naming a place within the locality where a copy
of the order and of the map referred to in it may be inspected,

181.4.b.bb

specifying a website on which those copies may be viewed, and

;

181.4.c

for paragraph (c) substitute—

181.4.c.c

specifying the final day for making objections to the order, and the manner in
which objections can be made.

181.5

After section 12 insert—

########### Final day for making objections

181.5.12A

181.5.12A.1

For the purposes of sections 11 and 12, the day specified as the final day for
making objections must be the last day, or a day after the last day, of the
period of 21 days beginning with the first day at the beginning of which the
acquiring authority expects that all of the following conditions will be
satisfied.

181.5.12A.2

The conditions are that—

181.5.12A.2.a

a notice has been published for the first time as required by section
11(1)(a),

181.5.12A.2.b

publication as required by section 11(1)(b) has begun,

181.5.12A.2.c

a notice has been affixed as required by section 11(3), and

181.5.12A.2.d

a notice has been served on every qualifying person as required by section
12(1).

181.6

In section 15 (notices after confirmation of compulsory purchase order)—

181.6.a

in subsection (3)—

181.6.a.i

the words from “in one” to “situated” become paragraph (a);

181.6.a.ii

at the end of that paragraph insert

, and

181.6.a.ii.b

on an appropriate website, until the end of the period of 6 weeks beginning
with the day on which the authority takes the final step needed to comply with
subsection (1)(a).

;

181.6.b

in subsection (3A), for “(3)” substitute  “(3)(a)” ;

181.6.c

in subsection (3B)—

181.6.c.i

for “(3)” substitute  “(3)(a)” ;

181.6.c.ii

after “(3A),” insert  “or with subsection (3)(b),” ;

181.6.d

in subsection (4), after paragraph (c) insert—

181.6.d.ca

specifying a website on which those copies may be viewed;

;

181.6.e

after subsection (4) insert—

181.6.e.4A

If the confirming authority is satisfied that, because of special
circumstances, it is impracticable for the acquiring authority to make the
copies referred to in subsection (4)(c) available for inspection at an
appropriate place, the confirming authority may direct that the requirement in
subsection (4)(c) is not to apply.

181.7

In section 22 (requirement to publish notice of certificate under Part 3 of
the Act)—

181.7.a

the words from “in one” to “situated” become paragraph (a);

181.7.b

at the end of that paragraph insert

, and

181.7.b.b

on an appropriate website, until the end of the period of 6 weeks beginning
with the day on which the certificate is given,

.

181.8

In paragraph 9 of Schedule 3 (requirement to publish notice of certificate
under that Schedule)—

181.8.a

the words from “in one” to “situated” become paragraph (a);

181.8.b

at the end of that paragraph insert

, and

181.8.b.b

on an appropriate website, until the end of the period of 6 weeks beginning
with the day on which the certificate is given,

.

##### Confirmation proceedings

182

182.1

The Acquisition of Land Act 1981 is amended as follows.

182.2

In section 13A (confirmation proceedings for contested orders), for
subsections (2) to (6) substitute—

182.2.1A

The confirming authority must cause a public local inquiry to be held if—

182.2.1A.a

the order is subject to special parliamentary procedure, or

182.2.1A.b

in the case of an order to which section 16 applies, a certificate has been
given under subsection (2) of that section.

182.2.1B

If subsection  (1A)  does not apply, the confirming authority must either—

182.2.1B.a

cause a public local inquiry to be held, or

182.2.1B.b

follow the representations procedure.

182.2.1C

In deciding between those options, the confirming authority must have regard
to the scale and complexity of what is proposed by the order.

182.2.1D

The representations procedure is a procedure to be prescribed.

182.2.1E

The regulations prescribing the procedure must include—

182.2.1E.a

provision enabling each person who has made a remaining objection to make
representations—

182.2.1E.a.i

in writing to the confirming authority, or

182.2.1E.a.ii

if the person so requests, at a hearing, and

182.2.1E.b

provision enabling the acquiring authority, and any other person the
confirming authority thinks appropriate, to make representations—

182.2.1E.b.i

in writing to the confirming authority, or

182.2.1E.b.ii

if applicable, at a hearing held as mentioned in paragraph  (a) (ii) .

182.2.1F

The regulations may provide for hearings to be held by the confirming
authority or by a person appointed by the confirming authority.

182.2.1G

In subsection  (1E) , “ representations ” means representations as to whether
the order should be confirmed.

182.2.1H

Before confirming the order, the confirming authority must consider—

182.2.1H.a

each remaining objection;

182.2.1H.b

if a public local inquiry was held, the report of the person who held it;

182.2.1H.c

if the representations procedure was followed and the confirming authority
held a hearing, the representations made at the hearing;

182.2.1H.d

if the representations procedure was followed and a person appointed by the
confirming authority held a hearing, the report of that person;

182.2.1H.e

if the representations procedure was followed and written representations were
made, those representations.

182.2.1I

The confirming authority may confirm the order with or without modifications.

182.3

In section 13B (supplementary provision about written representations
procedure)—

182.3.a

in the heading, omit “Written”;

182.3.b

in each of the following provisions, omit “written”—

182.3.b.i

subsection (1);

182.3.b.ii

subsection (2);

182.3.b.iii

subsection (4);

182.3.b.iv

subsection (6);

182.3.b.v

subsection (7);

182.3.c

in subsection (7), for “13A(6)” substitute  “13A (1D) ” .

182.4

In section 13C (confirmation of compulsory purchase order in stages), in
subsection (3), for “13A(2) or (3)” substitute  “13A (1A)  or  (1B) ” .

182.5

In section 14D(3) (functions of inspector appointed by confirming authority),
in paragraph (c), for the words from “13A(3)(a)” to the end substitute  “13A”
.

##### Conditional confirmation

183

183.1

The Acquisition of Land Act 1981 is amended as set out in subsections  (2)
and  (3) .

183.2

After section 13B insert—

########### Conditional confirmation

183.2.13BA

183.2.13BA.1

The confirming authority may confirm a compulsory purchase order
conditionally.

183.2.13BA.2

The effect of conditional confirmation is that the order—

183.2.13BA.2.a

does not become operative until the confirming authority has decided, on an
application by the acquiring authority, that certain conditions have been met,
and

183.2.13BA.2.b

expires if the confirming authority—

183.2.13BA.2.b.i

has not received an application for the purposes of subsection  (2) (a)  by a
certain time, or

183.2.13BA.2.b.ii

having received such an application by that time, decides that the conditions
have not been met.

183.2.13BA.3

The conditions and the time are to be specified by the confirming authority
when it confirms the order.

183.2.13BA.4

The procedure to be followed in relation to an application under this section
is to be prescribed.

183.2.13BA.5

The regulations prescribing the procedure must include provision for each
relevant objector—

183.2.13BA.5.a

to be given notice of the application (or for steps to be taken with a view to
notifying them), and

183.2.13BA.5.b

to have the opportunity to make written representations in response to the
application.

183.2.13BA.6

In subsection  (5) , “ relevant objector ” means a person who made an
objection to the order that—

183.2.13BA.6.a

was a remaining objection for the purposes of section 13A, and

183.2.13BA.6.b

had not been withdrawn by the time the order was confirmed.

183.2.13BA.7

The regulations may include provision as to the giving of reasons for the
decision on the application.

183.2.13BA.8

Subsections (2) to (6) of section 13B apply to proceedings on an application
under this section as they apply to the representations procedure.

183.3

In section 15 (notices after confirmation of compulsory purchase order)—

183.3.a

in subsection (2)(b), for “date when the order becomes operative” substitute
“day on which the authority takes the final step needed to comply with
subsection (1)(a)” ;

183.3.b

in subsection (3), at the beginning insert  “Unless the order was confirmed
conditionally,” ;

183.3.c

in subsection (4), after paragraph (b) insert—

183.3.c.ba

if the order was confirmed conditionally, stating the conditions and time
specified under section  13BA (3) ;

;

183.3.d

after subsection  (4A)  (inserted by section  181 (6) ) insert—

183.3.d.4B

If the order was confirmed conditionally and the confirming authority decides
under section  13BA  that the conditions have been met, the acquiring
authority must serve—

183.3.d.4B.a

a copy of the order, and

183.3.d.4B.b

a fulfilment notice,

on each person on whom a notice was required to be served under section 12.

183.3.d.4C

Where subsection  (4B)  applies, the acquiring authority must also—

183.3.d.4C.a

affix a fulfilment notice to a conspicuous object or objects on or near the
land comprised in the order, and

183.3.d.4C.b

publish a fulfilment notice—

183.3.d.4C.b.i

in one or more local newspapers circulating in the locality in which the land
comprised in the order is situated, and

183.3.d.4C.b.ii

on an appropriate website, until the end of the period of 6 weeks beginning
with the day on which the acquiring authority takes the final step needed to
comply with subsection  (4B) .

183.3.d.4D

The acquiring authority must comply with subsections  (4B)  and  (4C) (a)  and
(b) (i)  before the end of—

183.3.d.4D.a

the period of 6 weeks beginning with the day on which the decision under
section  13BA  is made, or

183.3.d.4D.b

such longer period beginning with that day as may be agreed in writing between
the acquiring authority and the confirming authority.

183.3.d.4E

If the acquiring authority fails to comply with those provisions before the
end of that period, or fails to comply with subsection  (4C) (b) (ii) , the
confirming authority may—

183.3.d.4E.a

take any steps that the acquiring authority was required but has failed to
take to comply, and

183.3.d.4E.b

recover the reasonable costs of doing so from the acquiring authority

183.3.d.4F

A fulfilment notice is a notice—

183.3.d.4F.a

stating that the conditions subject to which the order was confirmed have been
met and that the order will therefore become operative, and

183.3.d.4F.b

annexing the information that was contained in the confirmation notice.

;

183.3.e

in subsection (5), after “notice” insert  “or fulfilment notice” ;

183.3.f

in subsection (6)—

183.3.f.i

after “notice” insert  “, and any fulfilment notice,” ;

183.3.f.ii

for “it” substitute  “each such notice” .

183.4

Schedule 18  contains, and makes provision in connection with, amendments in
consequence of this section and paragraph  3  of  Schedule 19 .

##### Corresponding provision for purchases by Ministers

184

Schedule 19  makes provision in relation to compulsory purchases by Ministers
corresponding to the preceding provisions of this Part.

##### Time limits for implementation

185

185.1

In the Acquisition of Land Act 1981—

185.1.a

after section 13C insert—

############# Power to extend time limit for implementation

185.1.a.13D

185.1.a.13D.1

The confirming authority may, when it confirms a compulsory purchase order,
include provision in the order specifying a period longer than three years for
the purposes of section 4 of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 (time limit for
notice to treat) and section 5A of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting
Declarations) Act 1981 (time limit for general vesting declaration).

185.1.a.13D.2

No such provision is to be included by the acquiring authority in the order
submitted for confirmation.

;

185.1.b

in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 (preliminary provision about compulsory purchase
by Ministers), after sub-paragraph (3) insert—

185.1.b.3A

The order may, in particular, include provision specifying a period longer
than three years for the purposes of section 4 of the Compulsory Purchase Act
1965 (time limit for notice to treat) and section 5A of the Compulsory
Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 (time limit for general vesting
declaration).

185.2

In the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965—

185.2.a

in section 4 (time limit for notice to treat)—

185.2.a.i

the existing text becomes subsection (1);

185.2.a.ii

in that subsection, for “period of 3 years” substitute  “applicable period” ;

185.2.a.iii

after that subsection insert—

185.2.a.iii.2

The applicable period is—

185.2.a.iii.2.a

3 years, or

185.2.a.iii.2.b

such longer period as is specified in the order for the purposes of this
section.

;

185.2.b

in section 4A (extension of time limit during challenge), in subsection (1),
for “three year period mentioned in” substitute  “applicable period for the
purposes of” .

185.3

In the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981—

185.3.a

in section 5A (time limit for general vesting declaration)—

185.3.a.i

the existing text becomes subsection (1);

185.3.a.ii

in that subsection, for “period of 3 years” substitute  “applicable period” ;

185.3.a.iii

after that subsection insert—

185.3.a.iii.2

The applicable period is—

185.3.a.iii.2.a

3 years, or

185.3.a.iii.2.b

such longer period as is specified in the order for the purposes of this
section.

;

185.3.b

in section 5B (extension of time limit during challenge), in subsection (1),
for “three year period mentioned in” substitute  “applicable period for the
purposes of” .

185.4

In section 582 of the Housing Act 1985 (suspension of recovery of possession
of certain premises when compulsory purchase order made)—

185.4.a

in subsection (2)(a), for “third anniversary of” substitute  “final day of the
period of three years beginning with” ;

185.4.b

after subsection (6) insert—

185.4.b.6A

If the compulsory purchase order specifies a period longer than three years
under section  13D  of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981, the references in
this section to the period of three years are to be read as references to the
period specified in the order.

##### Agreement to vary vesting date

186

186.1

The Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 is amended as set out
in subsections  (2)  to  (6) .

186.2

In section 7 (constructive notice to treat), in subsection (1), at the
beginning insert  “Subject to section  8A ,” .

186.3

In section 8 (vesting, entry and possession), in subsection (1), for “section”
substitute  “sections  8A  and” .

186.4

After section 8 insert—

########### Postponement of vesting by agreement

186.4.8A

186.4.8A.1

The acquiring authority may agree in writing with the owner of any interest
which is to vest in the authority under section 8 that the interest is to vest
on a date after the vesting date.

186.4.8A.2

If such an agreement is in force on the vesting date, sections 7 and 8 operate
in relation to the interest as if the vesting date were—

186.4.8A.2.a

the agreed date, or

186.4.8A.2.b

any date subsequently agreed under subsection  (1) .

186.4.8A.3

If an interest subject to an agreement under this section entitles the owner
to possession of the land concerned, the right to enter upon and take
possession of the land given by section 8 does not arise until the interest
vests in accordance with this section.

186.5

In section 10 (compensation), after subsection (1) insert—

186.5.1A

But if an agreement under section  8A  is in force in relation to an interest
in the land when the land becomes vested apart from that interest, subsection
(1) does not give rise to any liability in relation to the interest until it
becomes vested.

186.6

In paragraph 5 of Schedule A1 (definitions for the purposes of the Schedule)—

186.6.a

the existing text become sub-paragraph (1);

186.6.b

in that sub-paragraph, in the definition of “original vesting date”, after
“is” insert  “, subject to sub-paragraph  (2) ,” ;

186.6.c

after that sub-paragraph insert—

186.6.c.2

If an agreement under section  8A  is in force in respect of the interest
which gives the owner the ability to sell the land proposed to be acquired,
the “original vesting date” is the date on which the interest is to vest as a
result of the agreement.

186.7

In section 5A of the Land Compensation Act 1961 (valuation date)—

186.7.a

in subsection (4), after “date is” insert  “, subject to subsection  (4A) ,” ;

186.7.b

after subsection (4) insert—

186.7.b.4A

If an interest in land vests in accordance with an agreement under section  8A
of that Act (postponement of vesting), the relevant valuation date in respect
of that interest is the earlier of—

186.7.b.4A.a

the date on which it vests, and

186.7.b.4A.b

the date when the assessment is made.

;

186.7.c

in subsection (5B)(b), after “is” insert  “, as a result of Schedule A1 to the
Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 (counter-notices in
respect of divided land),” .

##### Common standards for compulsory purchase data

187

187.1

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, make provision requiring an
acquiring authority, in preparing, holding or providing such of its relevant
compulsory purchase data as is specified or described in the regulations, to
comply with any approved data standards which are applicable.

187.2

“ Acquiring authority ” means any person who is, or may be, authorised under
an enactment to acquire land compulsorily.

187.3

“ Approved data standards ”, in relation to relevant compulsory purchase data,
are such written standards, containing technical specifications or other
requirements in relation to the data, or in relation to preparing, holding or
providing the data, as may be published by the Secretary of State from time to
time.

187.4

“ Relevant compulsory purchase data ” means information that is, or is to be,
contained in relevant compulsory purchase documentation.

187.5

“ Relevant compulsory purchase documentation ” means an order or notice or any
other documentation that is, or is to be, prepared by an acquiring authority
(acting as such) under or for the purposes of relevant compulsory purchase
legislation.

187.6

“ Relevant compulsory purchase legislation ” means provision made by or under—

187.6.a

the Land Compensation Act 1961,

187.6.b

the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965,

187.6.c

the Land Compensation Act 1973,

187.6.d

sections 10 to 16 of, and Schedules 4 and 5 to, the New Towns Act 1981,

187.6.e

the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981,

187.6.f

the Acquisition of Land Act 1981,

187.6.g

section 9 of the Tribunals and Inquiries Act 1992,

187.6.h

Part 7 of the Housing and Planning Act 2016, or

187.6.i

Chapter 1 of Part 2 of the Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017.

187.7

“Providing”, in subsection  (1) , includes submitting, issuing, serving,
notifying and publishing.

#### Compensation

##### ‘No-scheme’ principle: minor amendments

188

188.1

In section 6D of the Land Compensation Act 1961 (no-scheme principle)—

188.1.a

in subsection (3), for “regeneration or redevelopment” substitute
“development” ;

188.1.b

in subsection (4)(a), for “regeneration or redevelopment” substitute
“development for which the land is acquired” ;

188.1.c

after subsection (6) insert—

188.1.c.7

In this section and section 6E, “ development ” includes re-development,
regeneration and improvement.

188.2

In section 6E of that Act (further provision about inclusion of transport
projects in “scheme” for purposes of no-scheme principle)—

188.2.a

in subsection (2)(a), for “regeneration or redevelopment” substitute  “the
development of land in the vicinity of land comprised in the relevant
transport project” ;

188.2.b

in subsection (2)(c), omit “for regeneration or redevelopment”;

188.2.c

in subsection (3), for “8 September 2016” substitute  “the relevant date” ;

188.2.d

after subsection (3) insert—

188.2.d.3A

The “relevant date” is—

188.2.d.3A.a

8 September 2016, in a case where the land is acquired for regeneration or
redevelopment and regeneration or redevelopment was part of the published
justification for the relevant transport project;

188.2.d.3A.b

in any other case, the first day after the period of three months beginning
with the day on which section  188  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Bill
comes into force.

##### Prospects of planning permission for alternative development

189

189.1

The Land Compensation Act 1961 is amended as follows.

189.2

In section 14 (taking account of actual or prospective planning permission in
valuing land)—

189.2.a

in subsection (2), for paragraph (b) substitute—

189.2.a.b

of the prospect of planning permission being granted on or after that date for
development, whether on the relevant land or other land, other than
development for which planning permission is in force at the relevant
valuation date.

;

189.2.b

for subsections (3) and (4) substitute—

189.2.b.2A

If a description of development is certified under section 17 as appropriate
alternative development in relation to the relevant land (or any part of it),
it is to be taken as certain for the purposes of subsection (2)(b) that—

189.2.b.2A.a

planning permission for development of that description would be (or would
have been) granted on the relevant valuation date, and

189.2.b.2A.b

the permission would be (or would have been) granted in accordance with any
indication given under section 17 (5B) .

189.2.b.2B

In relation to any other development, the prospects of planning permission are
to be assessed for the purposes of subsection (2)(b)—

189.2.b.2B.a

on the assumptions set out in subsection (5), and

189.2.b.2B.b

otherwise, in the circumstances known to the market at the relevant valuation
date.

;

189.2.c

in subsection (5), in the words before paragraph (a), for “subsections (2)(b)
and (4)(b)” substitute  “subsection  (2B) (a)  (and in section 17 (1B) (a) )”
;

189.2.d

in subsection (9), in the words before paragraph (a), for the words from “to”
to “15(1)(b)” substitute  “in subsection (2) to planning permission that is in
force” .

189.3

In section 17 (certification of appropriate alternative development)—

189.3.a

in subsection (1), for the words from “containing” to the end substitute
“stating that a certain description of development is appropriate alternative
development in relation to the acquisition” ;

189.3.b

after subsection (1) insert—

189.3.b.1A

Development is “ appropriate alternative development ” for this purpose if it
is development—

189.3.b.1A.a

on the land in which the interest referred to in subsection (1) subsists
(whether alone or together with other land),

189.3.b.1A.b

for which planning permission is not in force at the relevant planning date,
and

189.3.b.1A.c

in respect of which the following test is met.

189.3.b.1B

The test is whether, had an application for planning permission for the
development been determined on the relevant planning date, the local planning
authority would have been more likely than not to grant the permission—

189.3.b.1B.a

on the assumptions set out in section 14(5),

189.3.b.1B.b

on the assumption that it would act lawfully, and

189.3.b.1B.c

otherwise, in the circumstances known to the market at the relevant planning
date.

189.3.b.1C

For the purposes of subsections  (1A)  and  (1B) , the “relevant planning
date” is—

189.3.b.1C.a

the relevant valuation date, or

189.3.b.1C.b

if earlier, the date on which the application under this section is
determined.

;

189.3.c

in subsection (3), for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute—

189.3.c.ba

must set out the applicant’s reasons for considering that the description of
development given in the application is appropriate alternative development,
and

;

189.3.d

for subsections (5) to (8) substitute—

189.3.d.5A

The local planning authority may issue a certificate under this section in
respect of—

189.3.d.5A.a

the description of development given in the application for the certificate,
or

189.3.d.5A.b

a description of development less extensive than, but otherwise falling
within, the description given in the application.

189.3.d.5B

A certificate under this section must give a general indication of—

189.3.d.5B.a

any conditions to which planning permission for the development would have
been subject, and

189.3.d.5B.b

any pre-condition for granting the permission (for example, entry into an
obligation) that would have had to be met.

189.3.d.5C

The test to be applied for the purposes of subsection  (5B)  is whether the
local planning authority would have been more likely than not to impose such
conditions, or insist on such a pre-condition, on the assumptions, and
otherwise in the circumstances, referred to in subsection  (1B) .

;

189.3.e

in subsection (10)—

189.3.e.i

for “there must be taken into account any expenses reasonably” substitute  “no
account is to be taken of any expenses” ;

189.3.e.ii

omit the words from “where” to “favour”.

189.4

In section 18 (appeals to Upper Tribunal)—

189.4.a

in subsection (2)—

189.4.a.i

after paragraph (a) (but before the “and” at the end) insert—

189.4.a.i.aa

must consider those matters as if, in subsections  (1B)  and  (5C) , the
references to the local planning authority were references to a reasonable
planning authority,

;

189.4.a.ii

in paragraph (b), after sub-paragraph (ii) insert—

189.4.a.ii.iia

cancel it, or

;

189.4.b

after subsection (2) insert—

189.4.b.2A

Where the local planning authority have rejected an application for a
certificate under section 17, the person who applied for the certificate may
appeal to the Upper Tribunal against the rejection.

189.4.b.2B

On an appeal under subsection  (2A) —

189.4.b.2B.a

paragraphs (a) and (aa) of subsection (2) apply as on an appeal under
subsection (1), and,

189.4.b.2B.b

the Upper Tribunal must—

189.4.b.2B.b.i

confirm the rejection, or

189.4.b.2B.b.ii

issue a certificate,

as the Upper Tribunal may consider appropriate.

;

189.4.c

in subsection (3), for the words from “the preceding” to the end substitute
“subsection  (2A)  applies as if the local planning authority have rejected
the application” ;

189.4.d

after subsection (3) insert—

189.4.d.4

The references in sections 14 (2A)  and 17 (5A)  and  (5B)  to a certificate
under section 17 include a certificate issued, or as varied, by the Upper
Tribunal under this section.

189.5

In section 19 (applications by surveyors)—

189.5.a

in subsection (3), for “paragraphs (a) and (b)” substitute  “paragraph  (ba) ”
;

189.5.b

after that subsection insert—

189.5.b.4

In the application of section 18 by virtue of subsection (1)—

189.5.b.4.a

subsection (1)(a) of that section is to be read as if it included the
surveyor, and

189.5.b.4.b

subsection  (2A)  of that section is to be read as if the reference to the
person who applied for the certificate included the person entitled to the
interest.

189.6

In section 20(a) (power to prescribe time limit for issuing certificate under
section 17), for the words from “time” to the end substitute  “period within
which an application under that section is to be determined” .

189.7

In section 22 (interpretation of Part 3), after subsection (2) insert—

189.7.2A

The completion of the acquisition or purchase referred to in the applicable
paragraph of subsection (2) does not affect the continued application of that
subsection.

##### Power to require prospects of planning permission to be ignored

190

190.1

In the Acquisition of Land Act 1981—

190.1.a

in section 7(3) (regulations subject to negative procedure), before “paragraph
4A” insert  “section  15A (11)  or” ;

190.1.b

in section 14A (confirmation by acquiring authority), after subsection (2)
insert—

190.1.b.2A

Nor does it apply to an order directing that compensation is to be assessed in
accordance with section  14A  of the Land Compensation Act 1961 (see section
15A ).

;

190.1.c

after section 15 insert—

############# Special provision about compensation

############## Directions applying section 

190.1.c.15A

190.1.c.15A.1

Subsection  (2)  applies if—

190.1.c.15A.1.a

an acquiring authority submits a compulsory purchase order for confirmation,
and

190.1.c.15A.1.b

the authorising enactment is listed in  Schedule 2A .

190.1.c.15A.2

The acquiring authority may include in the order a direction that compensation
is to be assessed in accordance with section  14A  of the Land Compensation
Act 1961 (cases where prospect of planning permission to be ignored); and if
it does so the following provisions of this section apply.

190.1.c.15A.3

The acquiring authority must submit to the confirming authority a statement of
commitments together with the order.

190.1.c.15A.4

A “statement of commitments” is a statement of the acquiring authority’s
intentions as to what will be done with the project land should the
acquisition proceed, so far as the authority relies on those intentions in
contending that the direction is justified in the public interest.

190.1.c.15A.5

If the authorising enactment is listed in any of paragraphs  2  to  7  of
Schedule 2A , those intentions must include the provision of a certain number
of units of affordable housing.

190.1.c.15A.6

The statement under section 12(1)(a) must include a statement of the effect of
the direction; and paragraphs  (ba)  and  (bb)  of the same subsection apply
in respect of the statement of commitments as they apply in respect of the
compulsory purchase order.

190.1.c.15A.7

The confirming authority may permit the acquiring authority to amend the
statement of commitments before the decision whether to confirm the order is
made.

190.1.c.15A.8

But the confirming authority may do so—

190.1.c.15A.8.a

only if satisfied that the amendment would not be unfair to any person who
made or could have made a relevant objection for the purposes of section 13,
and

190.1.c.15A.8.b

if the authorising enactment is listed in any of paragraphs  2  to  7  of
Schedule 2A , only if the statement of commitments as amended will still
comply with subsection  (5) .

190.1.c.15A.9

If the confirming authority decides to confirm the order in accordance with
the applicable provisions of this Part—

190.1.c.15A.9.a

it may confirm the order with the direction included if satisfied that the
direction is justified in the public interest;

190.1.c.15A.9.b

otherwise, it must modify the order so as to remove the direction.

190.1.c.15A.10

If the order is confirmed with the direction included, a confirmation notice
under section 15 must (in addition to the matters set out in subsection (4) of
that section)—

190.1.c.15A.10.a

state the effect of the direction,

190.1.c.15A.10.b

explain how the statement of commitments may be viewed, and

190.1.c.15A.10.c

explain that additional compensation may become payable if the statement of
commitments is not fulfilled.

190.1.c.15A.11

In this section—

      “ the authorising enactment ” means the enactment that confers the power
to make the compulsory purchase to which the order in question relates;
“ the project land ” means—         the land proposed to be acquired further
to the compulsory purchase order, and           any other land that the
acquiring authority intends to be used in connection with that land;
“ unit of affordable housing ” means a building or part of a building that is
constructed or adapted for use as a separate dwelling and—         in the case
of a building in England, is to be used as—         social housing within the
meaning of Part 2 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008, or
housing of any other description that is prescribed, or                 in the
case of a building in Wales, is to be used as housing of a description that is
prescribed.

;

190.1.d

after Schedule 2 insert—

  Enactments eligible for directions applying section  14A  of the Land
Compensation Act 1961

Section  15A

############### Enactments authorising acquisitions for purposes including housing

190.1.d.1

Section 21A(1)(c) and (2)(c) of the Welsh Development Agency Act 1975
(acquisition by Welsh Ministers of land in England for Welsh development
purposes).

190.1.d.2

Section 142 of the Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980 (acquisition
by urban development corporation).

190.1.d.3

Section 17 of the Housing Act 1985 (acquisition by local housing authority).

190.1.d.4

Section 226 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (acquisition by local
authority for development or planning purposes).

190.1.d.5

Section 333ZA of the Greater London Authority Act 1999 (acquisition by Greater
London Authority for housing or regeneration purposes).

190.1.d.6

Section 9 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 (acquisition by the Homes
and Communities Agency).

190.1.d.7

Section 207 of the Localism Act 2011 (acquisition by mayoral development
corporation).

############### Enactments authorising acquisitions for purposes of the NHS

190.1.d.8

Paragraph 46 of Schedule 4 to the Health and Social Care (Community Health and
Standards) Act 2003 (acquisition by NHS foundation trust).

190.1.d.9

Paragraph 27 of Schedule 4 to the National Health Service Act 2006
(acquisition by NHS trust).

190.1.d.10

In the National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006—

190.1.d.10.a

paragraph 20 of Schedule 2 (acquisition by local health board);

190.1.d.10.b

paragraph 27 of Schedule 3 (acquisition by NHS trust).

############### Enactment authorising acquisitions for educational purposes

190.1.d.11

Section 530 of the Education Act 1996 (acquisition by local authority for
purposes of educational institution or function).

190.2

In the Land Compensation Act 1961—

190.2.a

after section 14 insert—

############# Cases where prospect of planning permission to be ignored

190.2.a.14A

190.2.a.14A.1

The following provisions apply in relation to an acquisition if the compulsory
purchase order authorising the acquisition directs that compensation is to be
assessed in accordance with this section.

190.2.a.14A.2

Section 14 does not apply.

190.2.a.14A.3

In assessing the value of land in accordance with rule (2) in section 5, it is
to be assumed that no planning permission would be granted for development on
the relevant land (whether alone or together with other land).

190.2.a.14A.4

Subsection  (3)  does not prevent account being taken of planning permission
that has already been granted.

190.2.a.14A.5

Subsection  (3)  does not apply in relation to development consisting of the
use as two or more separate dwellings of any building previously used as a
single dwelling.

190.2.a.14A.6

Schedule 2A  provides for the payment of additional compensation in respect of
the acquisition in certain circumstances.

;

190.2.b

in section 32 (interest from entry on land), after subsection (2) insert—

190.2.b.3

This section does not apply in relation to additional compensation payable
under  Schedule 2A .

;

190.2.c

after the second Schedule insert—

  Additional compensation where section  14A  applied

Section  14A (6)

############### Directions for additional compensation

190.2.c.1

190.2.c.1.1

This paragraph applies if—

190.2.c.1.1.a

an interest in land has been acquired further to a compulsory purchase order,
and

190.2.c.1.1.b

the order directed that compensation was to be assessed in accordance with
section  14A .

190.2.c.1.2

The confirming authority must, on an application by an eligible person, make a
direction for additional compensation if it appears to the confirming
authority that the following conditions are met.

190.2.c.1.3

Those conditions are—

190.2.c.1.3.a

that the statement of commitments has not been fulfilled,

190.2.c.1.3.b

either—

190.2.c.1.3.b.i

that the period of 10 years beginning with the date on which the compulsory
purchase order became operative has expired, or

190.2.c.1.3.b.ii

that there is no longer any realistic prospect of the statement of commitments
being fulfilled within that period, and

190.2.c.1.3.c

that the initial direction would not have been confirmed on the basis of a
statement of commitments reflecting what has in fact been done with the
project land since its acquisition.

190.2.c.1.4

In sub-paragraph  (3) —

      “ the statement of commitments ” means the statement of commitments
submitted in connection with the compulsory purchase order under section  15A
(3)  of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (and if the statement was amended
after its submission, means the statement as amended);           “ the initial
direction ” means the direction referred to in sub-paragraph  (1) (b)  (and
that direction was “confirmed” when the compulsory purchase order was
confirmed with the inclusion of the direction);           “ the project land ”
means the land treated as the project land for the purposes of the statement
of commitments;

and that statement is “fulfilled” if what is done with that land after its
acquisition is materially in accordance with the statement.

190.2.c.1.5

The effect of a direction for additional compensation is that each eligible
person may make a claim to the acquiring authority for any additional
compensation in respect of the acquisition payable to the person under this
Schedule.

190.2.c.1.6

A person is an “ eligible person ” for the purposes of this Schedule if the
person was entitled to compensation in respect of the acquisition (and see
also paragraph  4 (1) ).

############### Amount of additional compensation

190.2.c.2

190.2.c.2.1

Additional compensation in respect of an acquisition is payable to an eligible
person only if, in relation to that person, the alternative amount is greater
than the original amount.

190.2.c.2.2

The amount payable is the difference between the two amounts.

190.2.c.2.3

The “original amount” is the amount of compensation awarded or agreed to be
paid to the person in respect of the acquisition.

190.2.c.2.4

The “alternative amount” is the amount of compensation that would have been
assessed as due to the person in respect of the acquisition had compensation
been assessed without the application of section  14A .

190.2.c.2.5

If the original amount was agreed, the relevant valuation date for the
purposes of the assessment imagined under sub-paragraph  (4)  is the date on
which the agreement was concluded.

190.2.c.2.6

In relation to the determination of an amount of additional compensation under
this Schedule, section 17(2)(b) applies as if its reference to the amount of
compensation were to the amount of additional compensation.

190.2.c.2.7

A certificate issued under section 17 (or 18) after the award or agreement
referred to in sub-paragraph  (3)  is to have effect for the purposes of the
assessment imagined under sub-paragraph  (4)  as if it had been issued before
that assessment.

190.2.c.2.8

Any amount of compensation that is or would be attributable to disturbance,
severance or injurious affection is to be ignored for the purposes of sub-
paragraphs  (3)  and  (4) .

############### Time limit for application for direction

190.2.c.3

An application under paragraph  1 (2)  may not be made after the expiry of the
period of 13 years beginning with the date on which the compulsory purchase
order became operative.

############### Mortgages

190.2.c.4

190.2.c.4.1

For the purposes of this Schedule an “ eligible person ” includes a person who
would have been entitled to compensation in respect of the acquisition but for
the existence of a mortgage (but the mortgage is in that case still to be
taken into account in determining the original and alternative amounts under
paragraph  2 ).

190.2.c.4.2

An amount agreed or awarded to be paid to a mortgagee under section 15 or 16
of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 in respect of the acquisition is to be
treated for the purposes of this Schedule as compensation in respect of the
acquisition.

190.2.c.4.3

The reference in sub-paragraph  (2)  to an amount paid under section 15 or 16
of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 (“the applicable section”) includes an
amount paid under section 52ZA or 52ZB of the Land Compensation Act 1973 and
taken into account by virtue of section 52ZC(7)(d) of that Act for the
purposes of the applicable section.

190.2.c.4.4

Additional compensation payable under this Schedule to a person in the
person’s capacity as a mortgagee (or to a person exercising rights of a
mortgagee) is to be applied towards the discharge of the sums secured by the
mortgage.

190.2.c.4.5

If there is no remaining sum secured by the mortgage, the additional
compensation that would be payable as described in sub-paragraph  (4)  is
instead payable to the person who is an eligible person by virtue of the
interest that was subject to the mortgage.

190.2.c.4.6

If the additional compensation that would be payable as described in sub-
paragraph  (4)  exceeds the total of the remaining sums secured by the
mortgage, the amount of the excess is instead payable to the person who is an
eligible person by virtue of the interest that was subject to the mortgage.

############### Successors-in-title

190.2.c.5

190.2.c.5.1

This paragraph applies if, had the compensation to which an eligible person
was entitled in respect of the acquisition remained unpaid, the right to be
paid it would now vest in some other person (assuming that it remained
enforceable and any obligations in respect of the right had been complied
with).

190.2.c.5.2

If the eligible person is still alive or in existence, the rights that the
eligible person would have under this Schedule are exercisable by the other
person and not by the eligible person.

190.2.c.5.3

If the eligible person is no longer alive or in existence, the rights that the
eligible person would have under this Schedule if that person were still alive
or in existence are exercisable by the other person.

190.2.c.5.4

The right exercisable by the other person under sub-paragraph  (2)  or  (3)
is subject to any restriction, condition or other incident to which the right
vested in that person as imagined under sub-paragraph  (1)  would be subject.

190.2.c.5.5

Additional compensation paid to the other person by virtue of sub-paragraph
(2)  or  (3)  must be dealt with by the person in any way in which the person
would have to deal with compensation paid to that person further to the right
vested in that person as imagined under sub-paragraph  (1) .

190.2.c.5.6

If a person is an eligible person by virtue of paragraph  4 (1) , the
reference in sub-paragraph  (1)  to compensation to which the person was
entitled is to be read as a reference to the compensation to which the person
would have been entitled but for the mortgage.

############### Consequential losses

190.2.c.6

190.2.c.6.1

The relevant authority may by regulations provide for additional compensation
payable on a claim under paragraph  1 (5)  to include (in addition to any
amount payable under paragraph  2 ) an amount to make good qualifying losses.

190.2.c.6.2

“Qualifying losses” are financial losses shown to have been suffered by an
eligible person, or a person entitled to exercise the rights of the eligible
person under paragraph  5 , as a result of the compensation initially payable
to the eligible person in respect of the acquisition being of the original
amount rather than the alternative amount.

190.2.c.6.3

In the case of an eligible person who is so by virtue of an interest that was
subject to a mortgage, the reference in sub-paragraph  (2)  to compensation
payable to the eligible person is to be taken to include compensation payable
to the mortgagee of that interest.

190.2.c.6.4

Regulations under this paragraph may limit the qualifying losses in respect of
which additional compensation is payable under the regulations by reference
to—

190.2.c.6.4.a

a description of loss,

190.2.c.6.4.b

an amount, or

190.2.c.6.4.c

any other circumstance.

############### Procedure etc

190.2.c.7

190.2.c.7.1

The relevant authority may by regulations make provision—

190.2.c.7.1.a

about the procedure for applications under paragraph  1 (2)  or claims under
paragraph  1 (5)  (including provision about the costs of such applications or
claims);

190.2.c.7.1.b

about steps that must be taken by the acquiring authority or the confirming
authority for the purposes of publicising or giving notice of a direction for
additional compensation;

190.2.c.7.1.c

for interest to be applied to amounts of additional compensation that are
payable;

190.2.c.7.1.d

about how or when additional compensation (and any interest) is to be paid.

190.2.c.7.2

Regulations under this paragraph about costs of claims under paragraph  1 (5)
—

190.2.c.7.2.a

may modify or disapply section 29 of the Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act
2007 (costs or expenses) or provisions in Tribunal Procedure Rules relating to
costs;

190.2.c.7.2.b

may apply (with or without modifications) section 4 of this Act;

and section 4 of this Act does not apply in relation to such a claim unless so
applied.

############### Regulations

190.2.c.8

190.2.c.8.1

For the purposes of this Schedule “the relevant authority” is—

190.2.c.8.1.a

the Secretary of State, in relation to England;

190.2.c.8.1.b

the Welsh Ministers, in relation to Wales.

190.2.c.8.2

Regulations under this Schedule may make—

190.2.c.8.2.a

consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional or saving provision;

190.2.c.8.2.b

different provision for different purposes.

190.2.c.8.3

Regulations under this Schedule are to be made by statutory instrument.

190.2.c.8.4

A statutory instrument containing such regulations is subject to annulment in
pursuance of—

190.2.c.8.4.a

a resolution of either House of Parliament, in the case of regulations made by
the Secretary of State, or

190.2.c.8.4.b

a resolution of Senedd Cymru, in the case of regulations made by the Welsh
Ministers.

############### Interpretation

190.2.c.9

190.2.c.9.1

In this Schedule—

190.2.c.9.1.a

“ the confirming authority ” means—

190.2.c.9.1.a.i

the person who confirmed the compulsory purchase order, or

190.2.c.9.1.a.ii

any successor to that person’s function of confirming compulsory purchase
orders of the type in question;

190.2.c.9.1.b

references to “the acquisition” or “the compulsory purchase order” are to the
acquisition or order by virtue of which paragraph  1  applies;

190.2.c.9.1.c

references to the acquisition of an interest in land include—

190.2.c.9.1.c.i

the creation of such an interest, and

190.2.c.9.1.c.ii

the acquisition or creation of a right in or over land;

and references to interests in land are to be read accordingly.

190.2.c.9.2

In the case of a compulsory purchase order made under section 10(1) of, and
Part 1 of Schedule 4 to, the New Towns Act 1981 (compulsory acquisition by new
town development corporation in usual cases), the reference in paragraph  1
(4)  to section  15A (3)  of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 is to be read as
a reference to paragraph  5A (2)  of Schedule 4 to the New Towns Act 1981.

190.2.c.9.3

In the case of a compulsory purchase order made under section 13(1)(a) of, and
Part 1 of Schedule 5 to, the New Towns Act 1981 (compulsory acquisition by new
town development corporation of statutory undertakers’ operational land)—

190.2.c.9.3.a

the reference in paragraph  1 (4)  to section  15A (3)  of the Acquisition of
Land Act 1981 is to be read as a reference to paragraph  5A (2)  of Schedule 5
to the New Towns Act 1981, and

190.2.c.9.3.b

the references in paragraph  1 (4)  and sub-paragraph  (1) (a)  to the
confirmation of the order are to be read as references to the making of the
order.

190.2.c.9.4

In the case of a compulsory purchase order made under section 21A(1)(b) or
(2)(b) of the Welsh Development Agency Act 1975 (compulsory acquisition by
Welsh Ministers of land in Wales for Welsh development purposes)—

190.2.c.9.4.a

the reference in paragraph  1 (4)  to submission under section  15A (3)  of
the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 is to be read as a reference to preparation
under paragraph  3B (2)  of Schedule 4 to the Welsh Development Agency Act
1975, and

190.2.c.9.4.b

the references in paragraph  1 (4)  and sub-paragraph  (1) (a)  to the
confirmation of the order are to be read as references to the making of the
order.

190.2.c.9.5

If—

190.2.c.9.5.a

an interest in land is acquired further to section 154(2) of the Town and
Country Planning Act 1990 (deemed compulsory acquisition further to blight
notice), and

190.2.c.9.5.b

the land falls within paragraph 22 of Schedule 13 to that Act (land blighted
by compulsory purchase order),

the interest is to be treated for the purposes of this Schedule as having been
acquired further to the compulsory purchase order by virtue of which the land
falls within that paragraph.

190.3

In the New Towns Act 1981—

190.3.a

in Schedule 4 (procedure for compulsory acquisition by new town development
corporation in usual cases), after paragraph 5 insert—

190.3.a.5A

190.3.a.5A.1

A development corporation submitting an order to the Secretary of State under
this Part of this Schedule may include in the order a direction that
compensation is to be assessed in accordance with section  14A  of the Land
Compensation Act 1961 (cases where prospect of planning permission to be
ignored); and if it does so the following provisions of this paragraph apply.

190.3.a.5A.2

The corporation must submit a statement of commitments together with the
order.

190.3.a.5A.3

A “statement of commitments” is a statement of the corporation’s intentions as
to what will be done with the project land should the acquisition proceed, so
far as the corporation relies on those intentions in contending that the
direction is justified in the public interest.

190.3.a.5A.4

Those intentions must include the provision of a certain number of units of
affordable housing.

190.3.a.5A.5

The notice under paragraph 2(1) must—

190.3.a.5A.5.a

state the effect of the direction, and

190.3.a.5A.5.b

name a place where a copy of the statement of commitments may be seen at any
reasonable hour.

190.3.a.5A.6

The Secretary of State may permit the corporation to amend the statement of
commitments before the decision whether to confirm the order is made.

190.3.a.5A.7

But the Secretary of State may do so—

190.3.a.5A.7.a

only if satisfied that the amendment would not be unfair to any person who
duly made or could duly have made an objection for the purposes of paragraph
4, and

190.3.a.5A.7.b

only if the statement of commitments as amended will still comply with sub-
paragraph  (4) .

190.3.a.5A.8

If the Secretary of State decides to confirm the order under paragraph 3, the
Secretary of State—

190.3.a.5A.8.a

may confirm the order with the direction included if satisfied that the
direction is justified in the public interest;

190.3.a.5A.8.b

otherwise, must modify the order so as to remove the direction.

190.3.a.5A.9

If the order is confirmed with the direction included, the notice under
paragraph 5 must—

190.3.a.5A.9.a

state the effect of the direction,

190.3.a.5A.9.b

explain how the statement of commitments may be viewed, and

190.3.a.5A.9.c

explain that additional compensation may become payable if the statement of
commitments is not fulfilled.

190.3.a.5A.10

In this paragraph—

      “ the project land ” means—         the land proposed to be acquired
further to the compulsory purchase order, and           any other land that
the corporation intends to be used in connection with that land;
“ unit of affordable housing ” means a building or part of a building that is
constructed or adapted for use as a separate dwelling and—         in the case
of a building in England, is to be used as—         social housing within the
meaning of Part 2 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008, or
housing of any other description that is set out in regulations made by the
Secretary of State, or                 in the case of a building in Wales, is
to be used as housing of a description that is set out in regulations made by
the Welsh Ministers.

;

190.3.b

in Schedule 5 (procedure for compulsory acquisition by new town development
corporation of statutory undertaker’s operational land), after paragraph 5
insert—

190.3.b.5A

190.3.b.5A.1

A development corporation making an application under this Part of this
Schedule may include in the application a request for a direction that
compensation is to be assessed in accordance with section  14A  of the Land
Compensation Act 1961 (cases where prospect of planning permission to be
ignored); and if it does so the following provisions of this paragraph apply.

190.3.b.5A.2

The corporation must submit a statement of commitments together with the
application.

190.3.b.5A.3

A “statement of commitments” is a statement of the corporation’s intentions as
to what will be done with the project land should the acquisition proceed, so
far as the corporation relies on those intentions in contending that the
direction would be justified in the public interest.

190.3.b.5A.4

Those intentions must include the provision of a certain number of units of
affordable housing.

190.3.b.5A.5

The notice under paragraph 2 must—

190.3.b.5A.5.a

state that the request has been made and what the effect of the direction
would be, and

190.3.b.5A.5.b

name a place where a copy of the statement of commitments may be seen at all
reasonable hours.

190.3.b.5A.6

The Secretary of State and the appropriate Minister may permit the corporation
to amend the statement of commitments before the decision whether to make an
order on the application is made.

190.3.b.5A.7

But they may do so—

190.3.b.5A.7.a

only if satisfied that the amendment would not be unfair to any person who
duly made or could duly have made an objection for the purposes of paragraph
3, and

190.3.b.5A.7.b

only if the statement of commitments as amended will still comply with sub-
paragraph  (4) .

190.3.b.5A.8

If the Secretary of State and the appropriate Minister decide to make an order
on the application under paragraph 3, they may include the direction in the
order only if satisfied that the direction is justified in the public
interest.

190.3.b.5A.9

If an order is made with the direction included, the notice under paragraph 5
must—

190.3.b.5A.9.a

state the effect of the direction,

190.3.b.5A.9.b

explain how the statement of commitments may be viewed, and

190.3.b.5A.9.c

explain that additional compensation may become payable if the statement of
commitments is not fulfilled.

190.3.b.5A.10

In this paragraph—

      “ the project land ” means—         the land proposed to be acquired
further to the compulsory purchase order, and           any other land that
the corporation intends to be used in connection with that land;
“ unit of affordable housing ” means a building or part of a building that is
constructed or adapted for use as a separate dwelling and—         in the case
of a building in England, is to be used as—         social housing within the
meaning of Part 2 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008, or
housing of any other description that is set out in regulations made by the
Secretary of State, or                 in the case of a building in Wales, is
to be used as housing of a description that is set out in regulations made by
the Welsh Ministers.

190.4

In Part 1 of Schedule 4 to the Welsh Development Agency Act 1975 (procedure
for compulsory acquisition under that Act), after paragraph 3A insert—

190.4.3B

190.4.3B.1

Where the Welsh Ministers prepare a compulsory purchase order in draft under
section 21A(1)(b) or (2)(b), they may include in the draft order a direction
that compensation is to be assessed in accordance with section  14A  of the
Land Compensation Act 1961 (cases where prospect of planning permission to be
ignored); and if they do so the following provisions of this paragraph apply.

190.4.3B.2

The Welsh Ministers must prepare a statement of commitments together with the
draft order.

190.4.3B.3

A “statement of commitments” is a statement of the Welsh Ministers’ intentions
as to what will be done with the project land should the acquisition proceed,
so far as they rely on those intentions in contending that the direction is
justified in the public interest.

190.4.3B.4

Those intentions must include the provision of a certain number of units of
affordable housing.

190.4.3B.5

The statement under paragraph 3(1)(a) of Schedule 1 to the 1981 Act must
include a statement of the effect of the direction; and paragraphs  (ba)  and
(bb)  of the same sub-paragraph apply in respect of the statement of
commitments as they apply in respect of the draft order.

190.4.3B.6

The Welsh Ministers may amend the statement of commitments before the
compulsory purchase order is made.

190.4.3B.7

But they may do so—

190.4.3B.7.a

only if satisfied that the amendment would not be unfair to any person who
made or could have made a relevant objection for the purposes of paragraph 4
of Schedule 1 to the 1981 Act, and

190.4.3B.7.b

only if the statement of commitments as amended will still comply with sub-
paragraph  (4) .

190.4.3B.8

If the Welsh Ministers decide to make the compulsory purchase order in
accordance with the applicable provisions of Schedule 1 to the 1981 Act—

190.4.3B.8.a

they may make the order with the direction included if satisfied that the
direction is justified in the public interest;

190.4.3B.8.b

otherwise, they must modify the draft of the order so as to remove the
direction.

190.4.3B.9

If the order is made with the direction included, a making notice under
paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to the 1981 Act must (in addition to the matters set
out in sub-paragraph (4) of that paragraph)—

190.4.3B.9.a

state the effect of the direction,

190.4.3B.9.b

explain how the statement of commitments may be viewed, and

190.4.3B.9.c

explain that additional compensation may become payable if the statement of
commitments is not fulfilled.

190.4.3B.10

In this paragraph—

      “ the project land ” means—         the land proposed to be acquired
further to the compulsory purchase order, and           any other land that
the Welsh Ministers intend to be used in connection with that land;
“ unit of affordable housing ” means a building or part of a building that is
constructed or adapted for use as a separate dwelling and—         in the case
of a building in Wales, is to be used as housing of a description that is set
out in regulations made by the Welsh Ministers, or           in the case of a
building in England, is to be used as—         social housing within the
meaning of Part 2 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008, or
housing of any other description that is set out in regulations made by the
Secretary of State.

190.4.3B.11

A statutory instrument containing regulations under sub-paragraph  (10)  is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of—

190.4.3B.11.a

Senedd Cymru, in the case of regulations made by the Welsh Ministers, or

190.4.3B.11.b

either House of Parliament, in the case of regulations made by the Secretary
of State.

190.5

In section 157 of TCPA 1990 (special provisions as to compensation for
acquisitions further to blight notices), before subsection (1) insert—

190.5.A1

Where—

190.5.A1.a

an interest in land is acquired in pursuance of a blight notice,

190.5.A1.b

the interest is one in respect of which a compulsory purchase order is in
force, and

190.5.A1.c

the order directs that compensation is to be assessed in accordance with
section  14A  of the Land Compensation Act 1961,

the compensation payable for the acquisition is to be assessed in accordance
with that direction and as if the notice to treat deemed to have been served
in respect of the interest under section 154 had been served in pursuance of
the compulsory purchase order.

### Letting by local authorities of vacant high-street premises

#### Significant concepts

##### Designated high streets and town centres

191

191.1

A local authority may designate a street in its area as a high street for the
purposes of this Part if it considers that the street is important to the
local economy because of a concentration of high-street uses of premises on
the street.

191.2

A local authority may designate an area within its area as a town centre for
the purposes of this Part if—

191.2.a

the built environment of the area is characterised principally by a network of
streets, and

191.2.b

the authority considers that the area is important to the local economy
because of a concentration of high-street uses of premises in the area.

191.3

A street or area is not to be designated, however, if the authority considers
that its importance derives principally from goods or services purchased in
the course of business.

191.4

A designation under this section may be varied or withdrawn at any time.

191.5

A local authority must maintain and make available to the public a list
describing, and a map showing, any designations under this section that are in
force in its area.

191.6

A designation under this section is a local land charge.

191.7

In this Part—

      “ designated high street ” means a street for the time being designated
under subsection  (1) ;           “ designated town centre ” means an area for
the time being designated under subsection  (2) .

##### High-street uses and premises

192

192.1

For the purposes of this Part, any use of premises that falls within any of
the following sub-paragraphs is a “high-street use”—

192.1.a

use as a shop or office;

192.1.b

use for the provision of services to persons who include visiting members of
the public;

192.1.c

use as a restaurant, bar, public house, café or other establishment selling
food or drink for immediate consumption;

192.1.d

use for public entertainment or recreation;

192.1.e

use as a communal hall or meeting-place;

192.1.f

use for manufacturing or other industrial processes of a sort that can (in
each case) reasonably be carried on in proximity to, and compatibly with, the
preceding uses.

192.2

For the purposes of this Part, premises are “qualifying high-street premises”
if—

192.2.a

they are situated on a designated high street or in a designated town centre,
and

192.2.b

the local authority considers them to be suitable for a high-street use.

192.3

But premises are not “qualifying high-street premises” if they are, or when
last used were, used wholly or mainly as a warehouse.

192.4

For the purposes of this Part, “ suitable high-street use ”, in relation to
premises, means a high-street use for which the local authority considers the
premises to be suitable.

192.5

In considering the uses for which premises are suitable, a local authority is
to have regard to any works that it expects—

192.5.a

the landlord would be required to carry out, or

192.5.b

the tenant would be permitted to, and likely to, carry out,

if a contract was entered into under section  204  and a tenancy was granted
further to it.

##### Vacancy condition

193

193.1

For the purposes of this Part, the “vacancy condition” is satisfied in
relation to premises on a given day if—

193.1.a

the premises are unoccupied on that day, and

193.1.b

either—

193.1.b.i

the premises were unoccupied for the whole of the period of one year ending
with the previous day, or

193.1.b.ii

during the period of two years ending with the previous day, the premises were
unoccupied on at least 366 days.

193.2

For the purposes of subsection  (1) , premises are occupied on a day during
which they begin or cease to be occupied.

193.3

Days before the day on which this section comes into force are to count for
the purposes of subsection  (1) (b) .

193.4

Occupation by a person living in premises that are not designed or adapted for
residential use is not to count as occupation for the purposes of this
section.

193.5

Regulations may amend this section so as to alter the circumstances in which
the “vacancy condition” is satisfied in relation to premises.

193.6

Those circumstances must relate to the time during which premises are or have
been unoccupied.

193.7

A state of affairs does not amount to the occupation of premises for the
purposes of this section unless it involves the use of the premises for
activity that—

193.7.a

is substantial,

193.7.b

is sustained, and

193.7.c

involves the regular presence of people at the premises.

##### Local benefit condition

194

For the purposes of this Part, the “local benefit condition” is satisfied in
relation to premises if the local authority considers that the occupation of
the premises for a suitable high-street use would be beneficial to the local
economy, society or environment.

#### Procedure preliminary to letting

##### Initial notice

195

195.1

On any day on which it appears to a local authority that the vacancy condition
and the local benefit condition are met in relation to qualifying high-street
premises in its area, the authority may serve a notice under this section (an
“initial letting notice”) on the landlord of the premises.

195.2

An initial letting notice expires (if it has not been withdrawn)—

195.2.a

when a final letting notice in relation to the premises takes effect, or

195.2.b

at the end of the period of ten weeks beginning with the day on which the
initial letting notice takes effect.

##### Restriction on letting while initial notice in force

196

196.1

While an initial letting notice is in force in relation to premises, the
landlord of the premises may not—

196.1.a

grant, or agree to grant, a tenancy of, or licence to occupy, the premises, or

196.1.b

enter into any other agreement resulting in another person becoming entitled
to possess or occupy the premises (except as a result of the transfer or
extinction of the landlord’s interest),

without the written consent of the local authority that served the notice.

196.2

The local authority must give or refuse consent under subsection  (1)  within
a reasonable time after it is sought.

196.3

Subsection  (1)  does not apply to the grant of a tenancy pursuant to an
obligation that bound the landlord before the initial letting notice took
effect.

196.4

An obligation that is conditional on the service of an initial letting notice
in relation to the premises is to be disregarded for the purposes of
subsection  (3) .

196.5

A tenancy or licence granted, or other agreement entered into, without consent
required by subsection  (1)  is void.

196.6

But subsection  (5)  is to be treated as never having applied to a tenancy,
licence or agreement if—

196.6.a

either—

196.6.a.i

the initial letting notice expires without a final letting notice having taken
effect, or

196.6.a.ii

a final letting notice served further to the initial letting notice expires
without a contract having been entered into under section  204 , and

196.6.b

the parties to the tenancy, licence or agreement have, until the expiry,
conducted themselves towards each other on the basis that the tenancy, licence
or agreement is valid.

##### Circumstances in which letting to be permitted

197

197.1

The local authority must give consent under section  196 (1)  to—

197.1.a

the grant of, or an agreement to grant, a tenancy, or

197.1.b

the grant of a licence to occupy the premises,

if the conditions in subsection  (2)  are met.

197.2

The conditions are that—

197.2.a

the term of the proposed tenancy, or the period of occupation under the
proposed licence, would begin within the period of eight weeks beginning with
the day on which the initial letting notice took effect,

197.2.b

that term or period would be at least one year, and

197.2.c

the local authority is satisfied that the tenancy or licence would be likely
to lead to the occupation of the premises for a high-street use.

197.3

For the purposes of subsection  (2) (b) , a term or period is to be taken to
be less than one year if the lessor or licensor has a right to terminate it
within the period of one year beginning with the day on which it starts,
unless that right arises only on default by the tenant or licensee.

197.4

Consent granted further to the duty in subsection  (1)  is to be treated as
not having been given if—

197.4.a

the proposed tenancy or licence is not granted, or

197.4.b

the term of the tenancy, or period of occupation under the licence, does not
begin,

within the period referred to in subsection  (2) (a) .

##### Final notice

198

198.1

A local authority may serve a notice under this section (a “final letting
notice”) on the landlord of qualifying high-street premises on any day on
which—

198.1.a

an initial letting notice served by the authority is in force in relation to
the premises,

198.1.b

the period of eight weeks beginning with the day on which that notice took
effect has elapsed, and

198.1.c

either—

198.1.c.i

no tenancy or licence has been granted, or other agreement entered into, with
the consent of the authority under section  196  or in circumstances where
consent was not needed because of subsection  (3)  of that section, or

198.1.c.ii

the authority is satisfied that any tenancy, licence or agreement so granted
or entered into is consistent with the contemplated exercise of its powers
under section  204 .

198.2

But the notice must be served in time for it to take effect before the initial
letting notice expires.

198.3

A final letting notice expires (if it has not been withdrawn or revoked on
appeal, and subject to sections  201 (6)  and  202 (6) ) at the end of the
period of 14 weeks beginning with the day on which it takes effect.

##### Restriction on letting while final notice in force

199

199.1

While a final letting notice is in force in relation to premises, the landlord
of the premises may not—

199.1.a

grant, or agree to grant, a tenancy of, or licence to occupy, the premises, or

199.1.b

enter into any other agreement resulting in another person becoming entitled
to possess or occupy the premises (except as a result of the transfer or
extinction of the landlord’s interest),

without the written consent of the local authority that served the notice.

199.2

The local authority must give or refuse consent under subsection  (1)  within
a reasonable time after it is sought.

199.3

Subsection  (1)  does not apply to the grant of a tenancy pursuant to an
obligation that bound the landlord before the initial letting notice preceding
the final letting notice took effect.

199.4

An obligation that is conditional on the service of an initial letting notice
or final letting notice in relation to the premises is to be disregarded for
the purposes of subsection  (3) .

199.5

A tenancy granted, or agreement entered into, without consent required by
subsection  (1)  is void.

199.6

But subsection  (5)  is to be treated as never having applied to a tenancy,
licence or agreement if—

199.6.a

the final letting notice expires without a contract having been entered into
under section  204 , and

199.6.b

the parties to the tenancy, licence or agreement have, until that expiry,
conducted themselves towards each other on the basis that the tenancy, licence
or agreement is valid.

##### Restriction on works while final notice in force

200

200.1

While a final letting notice is in force in relation to premises, the landlord
of the premises may not carry out, or permit the carrying out of, any works to
the premises without the written consent of the local authority that served
the notice.

200.2

In subsection  (1) , “works to the premises” include the alteration or removal
of any fixtures or fittings on the premises.

200.3

Subsection  (1)  does not apply to works that are—

200.3.a

urgently necessary for repair or preservation, or

200.3.b

necessary to fulfil an obligation of the landlord, other than one voluntarily
assumed after the initial letting notice preceding the final letting notice
took effect.

200.4

The local authority must—

200.4.a

give or refuse consent under subsection  (1)  within a reasonable time after
it is sought, and

200.4.b

must give such consent unless there are reasonable grounds for refusing it,
concerning the exercise or contemplated exercise of the authority’s powers
under the following provisions of this Part in relation to the premises.

200.5

A person who contravenes subsection  (1)  without reasonable excuse commits an
offence and is liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 4 on
the standard scale.

##### Counter-notice

201

201.1

The landlord of premises in relation to which a final letting notice has been
served may give a counter-notice to the local authority that served the final
letting notice.

201.2

A counter-notice must be received by the local authority before the end of the
period of 14 days beginning with the day on which the final letting notice
takes effect.

201.3

A counter-notice must—

201.3.a

state that, if the final letting notice is not withdrawn, the landlord intends
to appeal against it, and

201.3.b

specify the ground (which must be a permissible ground) on which the appeal
would be brought.

201.4

The permissible grounds of appeal are set out in Part 1 of  Schedule 20  (and
they are to be interpreted and applied in accordance with Part 2 of that
Schedule).

201.5

Regulations may amend that Schedule so as to—

201.5.a

add a ground of appeal;

201.5.b

make provision about the interpretation or application of a ground so added;

201.5.c

amend or remove a ground so added or provision so made.

201.6

The period referred to in section  198 (3) , as it applies to a particular
final letting notice, is extended by 28 days if a counter-notice is served in
relation to the final letting notice.

##### Appeals

202

202.1

This section applies if—

202.1.a

a counter-notice is given under section  201 , and

202.1.b

the landlord of the premises to which it relates is not, within the period of
14 days beginning with the day on which the counter-notice was received by the
local authority, notified by the authority of the withdrawal of the final
letting notice.

202.2

The landlord may appeal against the final letting notice to the county court.

202.3

An appeal must be brought on the ground specified in the counter-notice.

202.4

An appeal must be brought within the period of 28 days beginning with the day
on which the counter-notice was received by the local authority.

202.5

In disposing of an appeal under this section, the county court must either
revoke or confirm the final letting notice.

202.6

The period referred to in section  198 (3) , as it applies to a particular
final letting notice, is extended by one day (in addition to those referred to
in section  201 (6) ) for each day in the period—

202.6.a

beginning with the day on which an appeal against the notice is brought, and

202.6.b

ending with the day on which the appeal is finally determined, withdrawn or
abandoned.

202.7

For the purposes of subsection  (6) (b) , an appeal is not finally determined
until the decision on the appeal, or on any further appeal, may not be
overturned on a further appeal (ignoring the possibility of an appeal out of
time with permission).

#### Procedure for letting

##### Rental auctions

203

203.1

A local authority may arrange for a rental auction to be carried out in
respect of qualifying high-street premises if—

203.1.a

a final letting notice served by the authority is in force in relation to the
premises,

203.1.b

it is no longer possible for that notice to be revoked on appeal (whether
because of the expiry of the period referred to in section  201 (2)  or  202
(4)  or the final determination, withdrawal or abandonment of an appeal), and

203.1.c

either—

203.1.c.i

no tenancy or licence has been granted, or other agreement entered into, with
the consent of the authority under section  199  or in circumstances where
consent was not needed because of subsection  (3)  of that section, or

203.1.c.ii

the authority is satisfied that any tenancy, licence or agreement so granted
or entered into is consistent with the contemplated exercise of its powers
under section  204 .

203.2

A “rental auction” is a process for finding persons who would be willing to
take a tenancy of the premises further to a contract under section  204  and
ascertaining the consideration that they would be willing to give in order to
do so.

203.3

Regulations must make provision about the process.

203.4

The regulations must provide for the suitable high-street use of the premises
to be specified by the local authority ahead of the auction.

203.5

The regulations must provide for the identification of a person as the
“successful bidder” following a rental auction, except in cases where the
regulations provide for there to be no successful bidder.

203.6

The regulations may, in particular, provide for a person who took part in the
auction but would not otherwise be the successful bidder to be treated as the
successful bidder if—

203.6.a

the landlord of the premises so proposes or agrees, or

203.6.b

it appears to the local authority that it will not be reasonably practicable
to enter into a contract under section  204  with the person who would
otherwise be the successful bidder.

203.7

The regulations may include provision about with whom, and on what terms, the
local authority can enter into arrangements for the auction.

203.8

The regulations may allow local authorities to make choices as to procedure.

203.9

To the extent that the local authority has a choice as to procedure, the local
authority must have regard to any representations made by the landlord.

##### Power to contract for tenancy

204

204.1

Subsection  (2)  applies if—

204.1.a

a final letting notice served by the authority is in force in relation to the
premises,

204.1.b

the period of 42 days beginning with the day on which that notice took effect
has elapsed,

204.1.c

a rental auction has been carried out in respect of qualifying high-street
premises, and

204.1.d

the condition in section  203 (1) (c)  is still met.

204.2

The local authority that served the notice may enter into a tenancy contract
with the successful bidder in the auction (as identified in accordance with
regulations under section  203 ).

204.3

A “tenancy contract” is a contract under which—

204.3.a

the landlord of the premises agrees to grant, and

204.3.b

the successful bidder agrees to take,

a short-term tenancy of the premises (including a contract under which those
things are agreed subject to conditions).

204.4

A contract entered into under this section has effect as if it was entered
into by the landlord of the premises instead of the local authority.

204.5

A local authority is to act under this section in its own name, but with an
indication that it is acting so as to bind the landlord rather than itself.

204.6

As soon as possible after entering into a contract under this section, the
local authority must provide a signed copy of it to the landlord.

##### Terms of contract for tenancy

205

205.1

This section applies in relation to a contract entered into under section  204
.

205.2

The contract must set out the terms of the agreed tenancy (as to which see
section  206 ).

205.3

The contract may identify the physical extent of the premises in greater
detail than that in which the premises were identified for the purposes of
sections  195  to  203 .

205.4

The contract may (subject to regulations under subsection  (6) ) include—

205.4.a

provision allowing the tenant to carry out pre-tenancy works (and to enter
land for the purpose);

205.4.b

provision making that ability subject to the consent of the landlord (and
about the giving of such consent);

205.4.c

provision requiring the landlord to carry out pre-tenancy works (whether in or
outside the premises) before the term of the agreed tenancy begins;

205.4.d

provision about the remedies available to the tenant if the landlord fails to
carry out pre-tenancy works as so required.

205.5

“ Pre-tenancy works ” means works carried out (whether in or outside the
premises) before the term of the agreed tenancy begins in contemplation of the
use of the premises by the tenant once the term begins.

205.6

Regulations may—

205.6.a

impose restrictions or conditions on the ability to include provision within
subsection  (4)  in the contract;

205.6.b

provide for circumstances in which provision within subsection  (4)  must be
included in the contract;

205.6.c

make other provision about the terms of the contract.

205.7

In making regulations under subsection  (6) , the Secretary of State must have
regard to the terms on which contracts for the grant of short-term tenancies
are typically entered into on a commercial basis.

205.8

In deciding (so far as it has discretion to do so) on the terms of the
contract, the local authority must have regard to any representations made by
the landlord.

205.9

In this section—

      “ the agreed tenancy ” means the tenancy the grant of which is agreed in
the contract;           “ the premises ” means the premises that are to be
demised by the agreed tenancy;           “ the tenant ” means the prospective
tenant under the agreed tenancy;           “ the landlord ” means the landlord
of the premises.

##### Terms of tenancy

206

206.1

This section applies in relation to a tenancy the grant of which is agreed in
a contract entered into under section  204 .

206.2

If the interest of the landlord in the premises is such that the landlord
could not grant a tenancy the term of which ended after a particular time, the
term of the tenancy must not end after that time.

206.3

The tenancy must include terms requiring that the premises be used wholly or
mainly for the suitable high-street use specified by the local authority ahead
of the rental auction that preceded the contract.

206.4

If the rental auction involved the successful bidder indicating the amount of
premium or rent that the successful bidder would be willing to pay, the
premium or rent payable under the tenancy must, unless the landlord agrees
otherwise, be of the amount indicated (subject to any term of the tenancy
about review or deduction of rent).

206.5

The terms of the tenancy may include provision granting to the tenant
interests or rights in or over land outside the premises in connection with
tenant’s use of the premises.

206.6

The terms of the tenancy must include provision satisfying each of the
descriptions set out in  Schedule 21 .

206.7

Regulations may—

206.7.a

provide exceptions from subsection  (6) ;

206.7.b

provide further detail about the provision that is to be included in the terms
of the tenancy by virtue of subsection  (6) ;

206.7.c

make other provision about the terms of the tenancy.

206.8

In making regulations under subsection  (7) , the Secretary of State must have
regard to the terms on which short-term tenancies are typically granted on a
commercial basis.

206.9

In deciding (so far as it has discretion to do so) on the terms of the
tenancy, the local authority must have regard to any representations made by
the landlord.

206.10

In this section—

      “ the premises ” means the premises which are to be demised by the
tenancy;           “ the landlord ” means the landlord of the premises.

##### Power to grant tenancy in default

207

207.1

This section applies if—

207.1.a

a local authority has entered into a contract under section  204 , and

207.1.b

the landlord of the premises to which the contract relates fails to grant a
tenancy as required by the contract.

207.2

The local authority may grant the tenancy that the landlord should have
granted.

207.3

A tenancy granted under this section has effect as if it was granted by the
landlord instead of the local authority; and the local authority may do
anything that the landlord could do in order to make an effective grant.

207.4

A local authority is to act under this section in its own name, but with an
indication that it is acting so as to bind the landlord rather than itself.

207.5

As soon as possible after granting a tenancy under this section, the local
authority must provide a signed copy of the instrument by which the tenancy
was granted to the landlord.

##### Deemed consent of superior lessor or mortgagee

208

A contract entered into under section  204 , and a tenancy granted further to
such a contract, are deemed to have been entered into or granted with the
express consent of—

208.a

any person who is (or will be when the tenancy is granted) a superior lessor
of the land in which the premises in question are comprised, and

208.b

any mortgagee of that land.

##### Exclusion of security of tenure

209

A tenancy granted further to a contract entered into under section  204  is
excluded from sections 24 to 28 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1954.

#### Powers to obtain information

##### Power to require provision of information

210

210.1

This section applies in relation to premises that are situated on a designated
high street or within a designated town centre.

210.2

The local authority for the area in which the premises are situated may, in
writing, require any interested person to give information about the premises
to the authority.

210.3

In subsection  (2) , “ interested person ” means a person who appears to the
local authority to have an interest in the land in which the premises are
comprised.

210.4

For the purposes of subsection  (2) , information about premises includes
information about—

210.4.a

the occupation of the premises,

210.4.b

matters affecting the premises,

210.4.c

persons interested in the premises, and

210.4.d

their interests in the premises.

210.5

A requirement under subsection  (2)  must state the time by which and manner
in which the information is required to be given.

210.6

The power conferred by subsection  (2)  may be exercised only for the purpose
of obtaining information about the premises that the local authority thinks is
likely to be necessary or expedient for the exercise of its functions under
this Part in relation to the premises.

210.7

A person commits an offence if the person—

210.7.a

fails without reasonable excuse to comply with a requirement under subsection
(2) , or

210.7.b

in response to such a requirement, gives information that—

210.7.b.i

is false, and

210.7.b.ii

the person knows or should reasonably know to be false.

210.8

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (7)  is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 4 on the standard scale.

##### Power to enter and survey land

211

211.1

This section applies in relation to premises that are situated on a designated
high street or within a designated town centre.

211.2

A person authorised in writing by the local authority for the area in which
the premises are situated may—

211.2.a

enter and survey the premises, and

211.2.b

enter on any other land in order to gain access to the premises for the
purposes of paragraph  (a) .

211.3

In the following provisions of this section, “ the power ” means the power
conferred by subsection  (2) .

211.4

The power may be exercised only for the purpose of obtaining information about
the premises that the authority thinks is likely to be necessary or expedient
for the exercise of its functions under this Part in relation to the premises.

211.5

The power may be exercised only if the local authority has given, or made all
reasonable efforts to give, written notice to—

211.5.a

the landlord of the premises, for the purposes of subsection  (2) (a) , or

211.5.b

the person who appears to the local authority to be in possession of, or
entitled to possession of, the land, for the purposes of subsection  (2) (b) ,

at least 14 days before the day on which the power is first exercised in
relation to the premises or other land in question.

211.6

The power may be exercised only at a reasonable time.

211.7

The power may not be exercised in a way that involves the use of force, except
on the authority of a warrant issued by a justice of the peace.

211.8

Such a warrant—

211.8.a

may be issued only on an application supported by evidence given on oath,

211.8.b

may be issued only if the justice of the peace is satisfied that reasonable
efforts have been made to exercise the power without the use of force, and

211.8.c

must specify the number of occasions on which it can be relied.

211.9

A person exercising the power must produce—

211.9.a

evidence of the authorisation referred to in subsection  (2) , and

211.9.b

a copy of any warrant issued under subsection  (7) ,

if so requested by any person who appears to have control over the premises or
other land.

211.10

If no person who appears to have control over the premises or other land is
present when the power is exercised, the person exercising the power must
leave the premises or land as secure against trespassers as when the person
entered.

##### Offences in connection with section 

212

212.1

A person who, without reasonable excuse, obstructs a person in the exercise of
the power conferred by section  211 (2)  is guilty of an offence.

212.2

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (1)  is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

212.3

A person commits an offence if the person discloses confidential information,
obtained in the exercise of the power conferred by section  211 (2) , for
purposes other than those for which the power was exercised.

212.4

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (3)  is liable—

212.4.a

on summary conviction, to a fine, or

212.4.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or to a fine, or both.

212.5

In subsection  (3) , “ confidential information ” means information—

212.5.a

which constitutes a trade secret, or

212.5.b

the disclosure of which would or would be likely to prejudice the commercial
interests of any person.

##### Power to extend time limits

213

213.1

Subsection  (2)  applies if it appears to the county court that, because of—

213.1.a

a failure to comply with a requirement under section  210 (2) ,

213.1.b

the giving of false information in response to such a requirement, or

213.1.c

obstruction of a person in the exercise of the power conferred by section  211
(2) ,

a local authority has been impeded in deciding whether or how to exercise its
functions under this Part in relation to premises in respect of which an
initial letting notice or final letting notice is in force.

213.2

The court may order that the period referred to in section  195 (2) (b)  or
198 (3) , as applicable in relation to the notice, is to be extended by such
number of days as appears to the court to be appropriate in view of the
impediment.

213.3

The court may act under this section only on an application by the local
authority.

#### General and supplementary provision

##### Further provision about letting notices

214

214.1

In this section, references to letting notices are to initial letting notices
and final letting notices.

214.2

Regulations must make provision about—

214.2.a

the form and content of letting notices,

214.2.b

the service of letting notices, and

214.2.c

when letting notices take effect.

214.3

In making regulations under subsection  (2) (a) , the Secretary of State must
seek to secure that letting notices—

214.3.a

identify the premises to which they relate and their suitable high-street use,

214.3.b

explain the reasons for the service of the notice, and

214.3.c

explain the consequences under this Part of the notice having been served,

in such detail as is adequate in order for the recipient of the notice to be
able to decide how to act in response to it.

214.4

For the purposes of this Part, an authority serves a letting notice on the day
on which it takes the last step that it needs to take in order for the notice
to be served in accordance with regulations under subsection  (2) (b) .

214.5

In making regulations under subsection  (2) (c) , the Secretary of State must
seek to secure that, in the ordinary course of events (taking into account the
method of service employed), it is likely that the landlord will become aware
of the notice by the time it takes effect.

214.6

A letting notice served by a local authority may be withdrawn by the authority
at any time.

214.7

A letting notice—

214.7.a

is not affected by any change in the landlord of the premises in relation to
which it has been served, and

214.7.b

is a local land charge.

214.8

Regulations may provide for copies of letting notices to be served on—

214.8.a

persons with interests in the affected premises that are superior to the
landlord’s interest;

214.8.b

mortgagees of the affected premises.

##### Other formalities

215

Regulations may make provision about the manner of, or procedure to be
followed in connection with—

215.a

making, varying or withdrawing a designation under section  191 ;

215.b

seeking, giving or refusing consent under section  196  or  199 ;

215.c

giving a counter-notice under section  201 ;

215.d

making representations under section  203 (9) ,  205 (8)  or  206 (9) ;

215.e

making a requirement under section  210 ;

215.f

giving notice under section  211 (5) .

##### Compensation

216

216.1

A person interested in land is entitled to compensation for damage as a result
of the exercise of the power conferred by section  211 .

216.2

Such compensation is payable by the local authority that authorised the
exercise of the power.

216.3

Any disputes relating to compensation under this section are to be determined
by the Upper Tribunal.

216.4

The provisions of section 4 of the Land Compensation Act 1961 apply to the
determination of such disputes, with any necessary modifications.

216.5

Except as provided by subsection  (1) , no compensation is payable in respect
of the exercise of the powers conferred by this Part.

##### Power to modify or disapply enactments applicable to letting

217

217.1

Subsection  (2)  applies to an enactment which imposes obligations on a lessor
or prospective lessor of premises in relation to—

217.1.a

the letting of the premises, or

217.1.b

the premises while let.

217.2

Regulations may provide for the enactment to—

217.2.a

apply with modifications, or

217.2.b

not to apply,

in relation to a tenancy granted (or to be granted) further to a contract
entered into under section  204 , or the premises demised by such a tenancy.

217.3

In this section “ enactment ” includes an enactment comprised in subordinate
legislation, within the meaning given by section 21(1) of the Interpretation
Act 1978.

##### Interpretation of 

218

218.1

The following provisions apply for the purposes of this Part.

218.2

Each of the following is a local authority—

218.2.a

a district council in England,

218.2.b

a county council in England for any area for which there is no district
council,

218.2.c

a London borough council,

218.2.d

the Common Council of the City of London, and

218.2.e

the Council of the Isles of Scilly.

218.3

“ Premises ” means—

218.3.a

the whole of a building that is designed or adapted to be used as a whole, or

218.3.b

any part of a building that—

218.3.b.i

is designed or adapted to be used separately from the other parts, or

218.3.b.ii

could with reasonable adaptation be so used.

218.4

Premises are situated on a street if the building comprising or containing the
premises—

218.4.a

directly adjoins the street, or

218.4.b

is separated from the street only by the curtilage of the building.

218.5

“ Street ” means a street, within the meaning given by section 48(1) of the
New Roads and Street Works Act 1991, to which the public have access on foot
(whether by right or permission); and includes any part of a street.

218.6

“ The landlord ”, in relation to premises, means a person who—

218.6.a

is entitled to possession of the premises, and

218.6.b

has sufficient interest in the premises to be capable of granting a tenancy of
the premises of at least one year in duration.

218.7

For the purposes of subsection  (6)  as it applies in relation to—

218.7.a

the service of a final letting notice in the circumstances described in
section  198 (1) (c) (ii) , and

218.7.b

the operation of this Part following the service of such a notice,

the tenancy, licence or agreement referred to in section  198 (1) (c) (ii)  is
to be ignored.

218.8

“ Short-term tenancy ” means a tenancy for a term of at least one year but not
exceeding five years.

218.9

References to the terms of a contract or tenancy include covenants, conditions
and grants.

218.10

“Mortgagee” is to be read as if any charge or lien for securing money or
money’s worth was a “mortgage”.

218.11

References to regulations are to regulations made by the Secretary of State.

### Information about interests and dealings in land

#### Power to require provision of certain classes of information

219

219.1

Regulations may require the provision of information that is within the scope
of a permitted purpose.

219.2

So far as the regulations are to extend to England and Wales, the permitted
purposes are—

219.2.a

the beneficial ownership purpose (see section  220 ),

219.2.b

the contractual control purpose (see section  221 ), and

219.2.c

the national security purpose (see section  222 ).

219.3

So far as the regulations are to extend to Scotland or Northern Ireland, the
only permitted purpose is the national security purpose.

219.4

Regulations under this section must, for each requirement they impose,
specify—

219.4.a

the person on whom the requirement falls,

219.4.b

the occurrence or circumstances that gives or give rise to the requirement,

219.4.c

the time limit for complying with the requirement, and

219.4.d

the person to whom the required information is to be provided.

219.5

The occurrence or circumstances specified under subsection  (4) (b) —

219.5.a

must, in the case of a requirement to provide information within the scope of
the national security purpose, and

219.5.b

in any other case may,

be (or include) the giving of a notice in accordance with the regulations to
the person on whom the requirement falls.

219.6

In relation to such cases, the regulations may also make provision deeming
notice to have been given at a certain time in certain circumstances.

219.7

The person specified under subsection  (4) (d)  must be—

219.7.a

the Chief Land Registrar, or

219.7.b

another person exercising public functions on behalf of the Crown.

219.8

Regulations under this section may—

219.8.a

make provision about how information is to be provided (including provision
requiring it to be provided by electronic means specified in the regulations);

219.8.b

provide for, or make provision about, the application of the regulations to
persons outside, or information held outside, the United Kingdom;

219.8.c

relate to things done or arising before the coming into force of this section.

#### The beneficial ownership purpose

220

220.1

Information is within the scope of the beneficial ownership purpose if it
appears to the Secretary of State that the information would be useful for the
purpose of—

220.1.a

identifying persons who are beneficial owners of land in England or Wales, or

220.1.b

understanding the relationship of those persons with the land that they
beneficially own.

220.2

For the purposes of this section, a person beneficially owns land if either of
the following subsections applies.

220.3

This subsection applies where—

220.3.a

the land is owned by a body corporate or partnership, and

220.3.b

the person is, in relation to that body corporate or partnership, a beneficial
owner within the meaning given by regulation 5 of the Money Laundering
Regulations.

220.4

This subsection applies where—

220.4.a

the land is owned as part of—

220.4.a.i

a trust, foundation or similar legal arrangement, or

220.4.a.ii

the estate of a deceased person in the course of administration, and

220.4.b

the person is, in relation to that trust, foundation, arrangement or estate, a
beneficial owner within the meaning given by regulation 6 of the Money
Laundering Regulations.

220.5

In this section—

220.5.a

expressions that are also used in regulation 5 or 6 of the Money Laundering
Regulations have the same meaning as in that regulation;

220.5.b

references to ownership of land (except references to beneficial ownership)
are to the legal ownership of a freehold or leasehold estate in the land;

220.5.c

“ the Money Laundering Regulations ” means the Money Laundering, Terrorist
Financing and Transfer of Funds (Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017 (
S.I. 2017/692 ).

#### The contractual control purpose

221

221.1

Information is within the scope of the contractual control purpose if it
appears to the Secretary of State that the information would be useful for the
purpose of understanding relevant contractual rights.

221.2

For the purposes of subsection  (1) , understanding relevant contractual
rights includes identifying the persons holding them and understanding the
circumstances in which they were created or acquired.

221.3

“Relevant contractual rights” are rights that—

221.3.a

arise under a contract,

221.3.b

relate to the development, use or disposal of land in England or Wales, and

221.3.c

are held for the purposes of an undertaking.

221.4

In this section—

      “ contract ” includes a deed (whether or not made for consideration);
“ undertaking ” includes—         a business,           a charity or similar
endeavour, and           the exercise of functions of a public nature.

#### The national security purpose

222

222.1

Information is within the scope of the national security purpose if—

222.1.a

the information relates to land that is within subsection  (2) ,

222.1.b

the information is within subsection  (3) , and

222.1.c

it appears to the Secretary of State that requiring the provision of the
information under section  219  would be justified in the interests of
national security.

222.2

Land is within this subsection if it appears to the Secretary of State that a
threat to national security arises in connection with the location of the land
or anything situated or done on it.

222.3

Information is within this subsection if it appears to the Secretary of State
that the information would be useful for the purpose of—

222.3.a

identifying persons who—

222.3.a.i

own relevant interests in the land,

222.3.a.ii

have relevant rights concerning the land, or

222.3.a.iii

have the ability, or are in a position that may involve the ability, to
control or influence (directly or indirectly) the owner of a relevant interest
in the land, or a person with a relevant right concerning the land, in the
exercise of that ownership or right, or

222.3.b

understanding the relationship of those persons with the land.

222.4

In subsection  (3) —

222.4.a

references to ownership include legal and beneficial ownership;

222.4.b

“ control or influence ” includes control or influence by reason of interests
or rights in or under a company, partnership, trust, foundation, or legal
structure or arrangement similar to any of those.

#### Requirements may include transactional information

223

223.1

The information that may (if it falls within the scope of a permitted purpose)
be required to be provided under  section 219  includes transactional
information about instruments, contracts or other arrangements—

223.1.a

creating, altering, extinguishing, evidencing, or transferring relevant
interests in land, or

223.1.b

conferring, amending, assigning, terminating or otherwise modifying relevant
rights concerning land.

223.2

“ Transactional information ” means—

223.2.a

details of the parties to a transaction;

223.2.b

details of persons on whose behalf or for whose benefit the parties to a
transaction are or were acting;

223.2.c

details of the terms of a transaction;

223.2.d

details of persons providing professional services in relation to a
transaction;

223.2.e

details of the source of any money paid or other consideration given in
connection with a transaction;

223.2.f

copies of documents giving effect to or evidencing a transaction.

223.3

“Transaction”, in subsection  (2) , means an instrument, contract or other
arrangement within subsection  (1) .

#### Use of information

224

224.1

Regulations may provide for—

224.1.a

the retention of information provided further to a requirement imposed under
section 219 ;

224.1.b

the sharing of such information with persons exercising functions of a public
nature, for use for the purposes of such functions;

224.1.c

the publication of such information.

224.2

In the case of a requirement to provide information within the scope of the
national security purpose, regulations under subsection  (1)  may be made so
as to apply to information provided further to the requirement only so far as
appears to the Secretary of State to be justified in the interests of national
security.

224.3

Regulations may provide for the payment of fees—

224.3.a

by persons providing information further to a requirement imposed under
section 219 , and

224.3.b

to the person to whom the information is provided, in respect of any functions
conferred on that person under subsection  (1) .

224.4

No civil liability is to arise from the sharing or publication of information
under regulations under this section by reason of any inaccuracy or omission
in the information as provided further to a requirement imposed under  section
219 .

#### Offences

225

225.1

A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a requirement
imposed under section  219  commits an offence.

225.2

A person commits an offence if—

225.2.a

the person provides information in response to a requirement imposed under
section  219 ,

225.2.b

the information is false or misleading in a material particular, and

225.2.c

the person knows that the information is false or misleading or is reckless as
to whether it is.

225.3

But an offence under this section is committed under the law of a given
jurisdiction only if the requirement in question is imposed by regulations
extending to that jurisdiction.

225.4

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (1)  is liable—

225.4.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the maximum term for summary offences or a fine (or both);

225.4.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both);

225.4.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or
both).

225.5

In subsection  (4) (a) , “ the maximum term for summary offences ” means—

225.5.a

if the offence is committed before the time when section 281(5) of the
Criminal Justice Act 2003 comes into force, 6 months;

225.5.b

if the offence is committed after that time, 51 weeks.

225.6

A person guilty of an offence under subsection  (2)  is liable—

225.6.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

225.6.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

225.6.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

225.6.d

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both).

225.7

If—

225.7.a

an entity within subsection  (8)  commits an offence under this section, and

225.7.b

a person who is, or is purporting to act as, a relevant officer of the entity
authorises or permits, participates in, or fails to take all reasonable steps
to prevent the commission of the offence,

that person also commits the offence.

225.8

The entities within this subsection are those specified in the first column of
the following table; and “ relevant officer ”, in relation to such an entity,
means a person acting in a capacity specified in the corresponding entry in
the second column.

    Entity “Relevant officer”   A company. A director, manager, secretary or
similar officer. A partnership. A partner. A body corporate (other than a
company) or unincorporated body whose affairs are managed by a governing body.
A member of the governing body. A body corporate (other than a company) or
unincorporated body whose affairs are managed by its members. A member.

225.9

An offence under this section committed under the law of Scotland by a person
outside Scotland may be prosecuted in—

225.9.a

a sheriff court district in which the person is apprehended or in custody, or

225.9.b

a sheriff court district determined by the Lord Advocate,

as if the offence had been committed in that district (and in that event the
offence is for all incidental or consequential purposes deemed to have been
committed in that district).

225.10

In subsection  (9) , “ sheriff court district ” is to be read in accordance
with section 307(1) of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995.

#### Enforcement of requirements

226

226.1

Regulations may make provision to prevent a relevant registration act from
being carried out in relation to a relevant interest in land or relevant right
concerning land in relation to which a requirement imposed under section  219
has not been complied with.

226.2

For the purposes of subsection  (1) , a relevant registration act is any act
that would or could be carried out in relation to the register of title kept
under the Land Registration Act 2002.

226.3

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may—

226.3.a

amend the Land Registration Act 2002;

226.3.b

make consequential amendments of any other enactment.

#### Interpretation of 

227

In this Part—

      “ person ” includes any entity that has legal personality under the law
by which it is governed;           “ regulations ” means regulations made by
the Secretary of State;           “ relevant interest in land ” means an
estate, interest, right or power in or over land in the United Kingdom, except
an advowson, franchise or manor;           “ relevant right concerning land ”
means a right or power, arising under a contract or otherwise, that is not a
relevant interest in land but concerns the ownership, control or use of land
in the United Kingdom.

### Miscellaneous

#### Registration of short-term rental properties

228

228.1

The Secretary of State must by regulations make provision requiring or
permitting the registration of specified short-term rental properties in
England.

228.2

“ Short-term rental property ” means—

228.2.a

a dwelling, or part of a dwelling, which is provided by a person (“the host”)
to another person (“the guest”)—

228.2.a.i

for use by the guest as accommodation other than the guest’s only or principal
residence,

228.2.a.ii

in return for payment (whether or not by the guest), and

228.2.a.iii

in the course of a trade or business carried on by the host, and

228.2.b

any dwelling or premises, or part of a dwelling or premises, not falling
within paragraph  (a)  which is specified for the purposes of this paragraph.

228.3

The Secretary of State must consult the public before making the first
regulations under this section.

228.4

The requirement in  subsection (3)  may be satisfied by consultation
undertaken before the coming into force of this section.

228.5

Regulations under this section may, in particular, include provision about or
in connection with—

228.5.a

who may, or must, maintain the register or registers provided for under this
section;

228.5.b

who may, or must, register a specified short-term rental property on any
register provided for under this section;

228.5.c

conditions that must be satisfied for a specified short-term rental property
to be registered or conditions that may be placed upon a specified short-term
rental property’s registration (including provision about the circumstances in
which such conditions may be varied);

228.5.d

the circumstances in which the registration of a specified short-term rental
property may be revoked;

228.5.e

procedural requirements relating to the registration of a specified short-term
rental property, the variation of any conditions placed on the registration or
the revocation of the registration;

228.5.f

appeals against decisions made in relation to the registration of a specified
short-term rental property;

228.5.g

the form or content of—

228.5.g.i

a register provided for under this section,

228.5.g.ii

an application for registration on such a register, or

228.5.g.iii

any other document provided for under this section;

228.5.h

how the registration of a specified short-term rental property may or must be
publicised;

228.5.i

the collection, provision or publication of information in connection with
regulations under this section;

228.5.j

exemptions from some or all of the requirements imposed by regulations under
this section;

228.5.k

prohibiting the provision of a short-term rental property or anything done
wholly or partly for the purposes of promoting such a property to the public
or a section of the public, in the course of a trade or business, where the
property is not registered or another requirement imposed by regulations under
this section has not been met;

228.5.l

the enforcement of requirements or prohibitions imposed by regulations made
under this section.

228.6

Provision under  subsection (5) (l)  may, in particular, include provision—

228.6.a

conferring a power on a court or tribunal;

228.6.b

for the imposition of civil sanctions and appeals against such sanctions.

228.7

Regulations under this section may make provision for the imposition of civil
sanctions whether or not the conduct in respect of which the sanction is
imposed constitutes an offence.

228.8

Regulations under this section may—

228.8.a

provide for the charging of fees or other charges;

228.8.b

confer a function, including a function involving the exercise of a
discretion, on any person;

228.8.c

relate to all or only part of England (and still discharge the duty in
subsection (1) ).

228.9

In this section—

      “ civil sanction ” means a sanction of a kind for which provision may be
made under Part 3 of the Regulatory Enforcement and Sanctions Act 2008 (fixed
monetary penalties, discretionary requirements, stop notices, enforcement
undertakings);           “ premises ” includes any place and, in particular,
includes—         any vehicle or vessel;           any tent or moveable
structure;                 “ specified ” means specified or described in
regulations made under this section.

#### Pavement licences

229

Schedule 22  makes—

229.a

provision to make the regime for pavement licences under sections 1 to 9 of
the Business and Planning Act 2020 permanent, and

229.b

other provision relating to pavement licences.

#### Historic environment records

230

230.1

A relevant authority must maintain an historic environment record for its
area.

230.2

An “historic environment record” is a system for storing and making available
to the public information about—

230.2.a

any of the following in the area—

230.2.a.i

a listed building within the meaning given by section 1(5) of the Listed
Buildings Act;

230.2.a.ii

a conservation area within the meaning given by section 91(1) of that Act;

230.2.a.iii

a scheduled monument within the meaning given by section 1(11) of the Ancient
Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979;

230.2.a.iv

a garden or other area of land included in a register maintained by the
Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission for England under section 8C of
the Historic Buildings and Ancient Monuments Act 1953;

230.2.a.v

a site designated as a restricted area under section 1 of the Protection of
Wrecks Act 1973;

230.2.a.vi

a World Heritage Site (that is to say, a property appearing on the World
Heritage List kept under Article 11(2) of the UNESCO Convention Concerning the
Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage adopted at Paris on 16
November 1972);

230.2.a.vii

anything of a description specified in regulations under subsection  (3) ,

230.2.b

other sites in the area which the authority considers to be of historic,
architectural, archaeological or artistic interest,

230.2.c

objects found in the area in the course of archaeological investigations which
the authority considers to be of such interest, and

230.2.d

historical, architectural, archaeological or scientific investigations or
studies relating to—

230.2.d.i

anything within paragraphs  (a)  to  (c) , or

230.2.d.ii

the development, preservation or present character of any part of the area.

230.3

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, specify for the purposes of
subsection  (2) (a) (vii)  a description of object, structure or site that—

230.3.a

is designated, registered or similarly recognised under an enactment, and

230.3.b

appears to the Secretary of State to be so wholly or partly because of
historic, architectural, archaeological or artistic importance.

230.4

Subsection  (1)  requires information to be included in an historic
environment record only so far as the relevant authority—

230.4.a

has the information, and

230.4.b

considers it suitable for inclusion in the record.

230.5

A relevant authority must take such steps as it considers reasonable to—

230.5.a

obtain information for inclusion in its historic environment record, and

230.5.b

keep information included in its historic environment record up to date.

230.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision—

230.6.a

about how information is to be stored or made available as described in
subsection  (2) ;

230.6.b

for and in connection with the charging of fees by relevant authorities in
respect of—

230.6.b.i

the provision of advice or assistance to persons making use, or proposing to
make use, of an historic environment record;

230.6.b.ii

the provision of documents copied or derived from an historic environment
record.

230.7

Regulations under subsection  (6) (a)  may, in particular, make provision
requiring or enabling information to be stored or made available in accordance
with such standards or specifications as are published by the Secretary of
State from time to time.

230.8

The relevant authorities for the purposes of this section are—

230.8.a

each county council in England,

230.8.b

each district council for an area in England for which there is no county
council,

230.8.c

each London borough council,

230.8.d

the Common Council of the City of London,

230.8.e

the Council of the Isles of Scilly,

230.8.f

each National Park authority for a National Park in England, and

230.8.g

the Broads Authority.

230.9

For the purposes of this section—

230.9.a

the area of the Common Council includes the Inner Temple and the Middle
Temple,

230.9.b

an area comprising a National Park for which there is a National Park
authority is the area of that authority and no other relevant authority, and

230.9.c

the area comprising the Broads, as defined by section 2(3) of the Norfolk and
Suffolk Broads Act 1988, is the area of the Broads Authority and no other
relevant authority.

#### Review of governance etc of RICS

231

231.1

The Secretary of State may, from time to time, appoint an independent person
to carry out a review of—

231.1.a

the governance of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors,

231.1.b

the effectiveness of the Institution in meeting its objectives, and

231.1.c

any other matter specified in the appointment.

231.2

A matter may be specified under  subsection (1) (c)  only if the Secretary of
State considers that the matter is connected with—

231.2.a

the governance of the Institution, or

231.2.b

the effectiveness of the Institution in meeting its objectives.

231.3

On completion of a review, the appointed person must make a written report to
the Secretary of State—

231.3.a

setting out the result of the review, and

231.3.b

making such recommendations (if any) as the person considers.

231.4

The Secretary of State must publish a copy of the report.

231.5

In  this section  “ independent ” means appearing to the Secretary of State to
be independent of—

231.5.a

the Secretary of State, and

231.5.b

the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.

#### Marine licensing

232

232.1

The Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 is amended in accordance with
subsections  (2)  to  (7) .

232.2

In section 72A (further fees chargeable where the Welsh Ministers are the
appropriate licensing authority)—

232.2.a

in the heading, from “Welsh” to the end substitute  “appropriate licensing
authority is the Secretary of State, the Scottish Ministers or the Welsh
Ministers” ;

232.2.b

in subsection (1), for the words from “Welsh” to the end substitute
“appropriate licensing authority in relation to a marine licence granted under
this Part is the Secretary of State, the Scottish Ministers or the Welsh
Ministers.” ;

232.2.c

in subsection (2)(c), insert at the beginning  “where the Welsh Ministers are
the licensing authority,” ;

232.2.d

after subsection (2) insert—

232.2.d.2A

Where the licensing authority is the Secretary of State or the Scottish
Ministers, the authority may charge a fee for dealing with—

232.2.d.2A.a

a variation of the licence under section 72(3) (whether or not on an
application), or

232.2.d.2A.b

a transfer and variation of the licence under section 72(7).

;

232.2.e

in subsection (4), for “subsection (2)” substitute  “subsections (2) and (2A)”
;

232.2.f

in subsection (6)—

232.2.f.i

the words from “an application” to “72” become paragraph (a),

232.2.f.ii

at the beginning of that paragraph insert  “where the Welsh Ministers are the
licensing authority,” ,

232.2.f.iii

after that paragraph insert

, or

232.2.f.iii.b

where the licensing authority is the Secretary of State or the Scottish
Ministers, an application for a variation of a licence under section 72(3) or
a transfer and variation of a licence under section 72(7),

;

232.2.f.iv

in the closing words, after “licensee” insert  “or (as the case may be) other
applicant” ; and

232.2.g

in subsection (9), after “licensee” insert  “or other applicant” .

232.3

In section 98 (delegation of functions), in subsection (6)—

232.3.a

in paragraph (ca), for “Welsh Ministers are the licensing authority”
substitute  “licensing authority is the Secretary of State, the Scottish
Ministers or the Welsh Ministers” ;

232.3.b

in paragraph (ha), for “Welsh Ministers are the licensing authority”
substitute  “licensing authority is the Secretary of State, the Scottish
Ministers or the Welsh Ministers” ;

232.3.c

in paragraph (hb), for “Welsh Ministers are the licensing authority”
substitute  “licensing authority is the Secretary of State, the Scottish
Ministers or the Welsh Ministers” .

232.4

In section 107A (deposits on account of fees payable)—

232.4.a

in the heading, after “the” insert  “Secretary of State, the Scottish
Ministers or the” ;

232.4.b

in subsection (1), from “Welsh” to the end substitute  “appropriate licensing
authority is the Secretary of State, the Scottish Ministers or the Welsh
Ministers.”

232.5

In section 107B (supplementary provision about fees)—

232.5.a

in the heading, after “the” insert  “Secretary of State, the Scottish
Ministers or the” ;

232.5.b

in subsection (1), from “Welsh” to the end substitute  “appropriate licensing
authority is the Secretary of State, the Scottish Ministers or the Welsh
Ministers.”

232.6

In section 108 (appeals against notices), in subsection (2A), at the beginning
insert  “The Secretary of State, the Scottish Ministers or” .

232.7

In section 110A (fees: oil and gas activities for which marine licence
needed), in subsection (4)—

232.7.a

after “67,” insert  “72(3), 72(7) or 72A(2)(a) or (b),” ;

232.7.b

after “67(2)” insert  “or 72A(4)” ;

232.7.c

after “67(5)” insert  “or 72A(6)” .

232.8

The amendments made to the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 by sections 77
to 80 of the  Environment (Wales) Act 2016 (anaw 3)  extend to Scotland and
Northern Ireland (as well as England and Wales).

232.9

The Public Bodies (Marine Management Organisation) (Fees) Order 2014 ( S.I.
2014/2555 ) is revoked.

#### Power to replace Health and Safety Executive as building safety regulator

233

233.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for a body (“the new
regulator”) to replace the Health and Safety Executive as the building safety
regulator for the purposes of the Building Safety Act 2022.

233.2

The new regulator may be—

233.2.a

a body established by the regulations, or

233.2.b

another body specified in the regulations.

233.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations make further provision in connection
with subsection (1), including provision—

233.3.a

conferring the functions of the Health and Safety Executive as the building
safety regulator on to the new regulator;

233.3.b

establishing or modifying the constitutional arrangements of the new
regulator;

233.3.c

establishing or modifying the funding arrangements of the new regulator;

233.3.d

conferring a power on the Secretary of State to give directions to the new
regulator.

233.4

Regulations under this section may amend, repeal or revoke any provision made
by or under—

233.4.a

the Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974;

233.4.b

the Building Act 1984;

233.4.c

TCPA 1990;

233.4.d

section 54 of PCPA 2004;

233.4.e

the Building Safety Act 2022.

233.5

No regulations may be made under this section after the end of the period of
24 months beginning with the day on which the final report of the Grenfell
Tower Inquiry is presented to Parliament in accordance with section 26 of the
Inquiries Act 2005.

233.6

In this section—

      “ constitutional arrangements ”, in relation to the new regulator,
include matters relating to—         the name and status of the body;
the chair, members and staff of the body (including qualifications and
procedures for appointment and functions);           the body’s powers to
employ staff;           remuneration, allowances and pensions for the body’s
members and staff;           governing procedures and arrangements (including
the role and membership of committees and sub-committees);           reports
and accounts (including audit);                 “ funding arrangements ”, in
relation to the new regulator, include provision for it to be funded by a
Minister of the Crown and the extent of such funding;           “ Grenfell
Tower Inquiry ” means the public inquiry into the fire at Grenfell Tower on 14
June 2017 as set up on 15 August 2017 for the purposes of section 5 of the
Inquiries Act 2005;           “ Minister of the Crown ” has the same meaning
as in the Ministers of the Crown Act 1975.

#### Transfer schemes in connection with regulations under 

234

234.1

The Secretary of State may, in connection with regulations under section  233
(1) , make one or more schemes for the transfer of property, rights and
liabilities (“transfer schemes”).

234.2

A transfer scheme in connection with regulations under section  233 (1)  may
provide for the transfer of property, rights or liabilities to the new
regulator from the Health and Safety Executive.

234.3

The things that may be transferred under a transfer scheme include—

234.3.a

property, rights and liabilities that could not otherwise be transferred;

234.3.b

property acquired, and rights and liabilities arising, after the making of the
scheme;

234.3.c

criminal liabilities.

234.4

A transfer scheme may—

234.4.a

create rights, or impose liabilities, in relation to property or rights
transferred;

234.4.b

make provision about the continuing effect of things done by, on behalf of or
in relation to the Health and Safety Executive in respect of anything
transferred;

234.4.c

make provision about the continuation of things (including legal proceedings)
in the process of being done by, on behalf of or in relation to the Health and
Safety Executive in respect of anything transferred;

234.4.d

make provision for references to the Health and Safety Executive in an
instrument or other document in respect of anything transferred to be treated
as references to the new regulator;

234.4.e

make provision for the shared ownership or use of property;

234.4.f

make provision which is the same as or similar to the TUPE regulations;

234.4.g

make other consequential, supplementary, incidental or transitional provision.

234.5

A transfer scheme may provide—

234.5.a

for modifications by agreement;

234.5.b

for modifications to have effect from the date when the original scheme came
into effect.

234.6

In subsection (4)(f), “ the TUPE regulations ” means the Transfer of
Undertakings (Protection of Employment) Regulations 2006 ( S.I. 2006/246 ).

234.7

For the purposes of this section—

234.7.a

references to rights and liabilities include rights and liabilities relating
to a contract of employment;

234.7.b

references to the transfer of property include the grant of a lease.

234.8

For the purposes of subsection (7)(a)—

234.8.a

an individual who holds employment in the civil service of the State is to be
treated as employed by virtue of a contract of employment, and

234.8.b

the terms of the individual’s employment in the civil service of the State are
to be treated as constituting the terms of the contract of employment.

234.9

In this section “ new regulator ” has the meaning given in section  233 (1) .

#### Transfer of land by local authorities

235

235.1

In Schedule 1 to the Academies Act 2010 (Academies: land), after paragraph 9
insert—

########## Compulsory transfer to trustees

235.1.9A

235.1.9A.1

This paragraph applies where Conditions A to D are met.

235.1.9A.2

Condition A is that a local authority make premises (“the new premises”)
available to be used by an Academy school.

235.1.9A.3

Condition B is that the new premises are made available as an alternative to
premises (“the existing premises”) which have previously been used by—

235.1.9A.3.a

the Academy school, or

235.1.9A.3.b

a maintained school, Academy or sixth form college that has been or is to be
discontinued and that the Academy school replaces.

235.1.9A.4

Condition C is that the existing premises are held on trust by a person or
persons (“the trustees”) for the purposes of (as the case may be)—

235.1.9A.4.a

the Academy school, or

235.1.9A.4.b

the discontinued maintained school, Academy or sixth form college.

235.1.9A.5

Condition D is that the trustees—

235.1.9A.5.a

having sold the existing premises, pay to the local authority a sum that—

235.1.9A.5.a.i

is just, having regard to the value of the local authority’s interest in the
new premises, but

235.1.9A.5.a.ii

does not exceed the total of the proceeds of sale and any interest that has
accrued to the trustees on those proceeds, or

235.1.9A.5.b

if the local authority agree to accept the trustees’ interest in the existing
premises, transfer that interest to the local authority.

235.1.9A.6

The local authority must transfer their interest in the new premises to the
trustees to be held by them on trust for the purposes of the Academy school.

235.1.9A.7

The local authority must pay to the trustees to whom the transfer is made
their reasonable costs in connection with the transfer.

235.1.9A.8

Any question relating to the duty in sub-paragraph (6) may, if not agreed by
the local authority and the trustees, be referred by the local authority or
the trustees to the adjudicator (see section 25 of the School Standards and
Framework Act 1998).

235.1.9A.9

The questions referred to in sub-paragraph (8) include in particular—

235.1.9A.9.a

the extent of the premises an interest in which is to be transferred by the
local authority,

235.1.9A.9.b

whether a sum proposed by any person to be paid by the trustees as specified
in sub-paragraph (5)(a) is just having regard to the value of the local
authority’s interest in the new premises,

235.1.9A.9.c

the amount of any interest that has accrued to the trustees on proceeds of
sale as referred to in sub-paragraph (5)(a)(ii), and

235.1.9A.9.d

the identity of the trustees to or by whom a payment or transfer should be
made.

235.1.9A.10

The local authority and the trustees respectively must provide to the
adjudicator any information the adjudicator may request from them for the
purpose of exercising the functions the adjudicator has by virtue of this
paragraph.

235.1.9A.11

Any sum paid to the local authority as referred to in sub-paragraph (5)(a) is
to be treated for the purposes of section 14 of the School Sites Act 1841
(which relates to the sale or exchange of land held on trust for the purposes
of a school) as a sum applied in the purchase of a site for the school,
Academy or sixth form college referred to in sub-paragraph (3)(a) or (b).

235.1.9A.12

In this paragraph, references to premises do not include playing fields.

235.2

In section 25 of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 (adjudicators),
in subsection (2), after “2006” insert  “or paragraph 9A of Schedule 1 to the
Academies Act 2010” .

235.3

In Schedule 5 to that Act (adjudicators), in paragraph 5(1), after “2006”
insert  “or paragraph 9A of Schedule 1 to the Academies Act 2010” .

235.4

In Part 2 of Schedule 22 to that Act (maintained schools: disposals on
discontinuance), in paragraph 5, after sub-paragraph (1A) insert—

235.4.1B

This paragraph also does not apply where the school mentioned in sub-paragraph
(1)(a) is (with or without other schools) to be replaced by an Academy school
in circumstances where paragraph 9A(1) of Schedule 1 to the Academies Act 2010
applies.

#### Open access mapping

236

236.1

The Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000 is amended as follows.

236.2

After section 9 (maps in conclusive form) insert—

########## Review of maps (England)

236.2.9A

236.2.9A.1

This section applies where a map has been issued in conclusive form for the
purposes of this Part in respect of any area in England.

236.2.9A.2

Natural England must before 1 January 2031, to the extent that they consider
appropriate, carry out a review of whether—

236.2.9A.2.a

any land shown on that map as open country or registered common land is open
country or registered common land at the time of the review, and

236.2.9A.2.b

any land in that area which is not so shown ought to be so shown.

236.2.9A.3

Regulations may require Natural England to carry out subsequent reviews, in
respect of such matters and in respect of such circumstances as may be
prescribed.

236.3

In section 10 (review of maps)—

236.3.a

at the end of the heading insert  “(Wales)” ;

236.3.b

in subsection (1), after “area” insert  “in Wales” ;

236.3.c

in subsection (2), for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute—

236.3.c.a

in the case of the first review, not more than ten years after the issue of
the map in conclusive form, and

236.3.c.b

in the case of subsequent reviews, not more than fifteen years after the
previous review.

236.4

In section 11 (regulations relating to maps)—

236.4.a

in subsection (2), after paragraph (j) insert—

236.4.a.ja

the procedure to be followed on a review under section 9A (including provision
as to the period within which, and the manner in which, representations may be
made to Natural England in relation to such a review),

;

236.4.b

after subsection (3) insert—

236.4.b.3A

Regulations made by virtue of subsection (2) (ja)  may make provision—

236.4.b.3A.a

for appeals in relation to a review, including by making provision applying,
or corresponding to, any provision of, or made under, Schedule 1A to the
National Parks and Access to the Countryside Act 1949 (coastal access reports)
(with or without modifications);

236.4.b.3A.b

enabling Natural England to make a determination in preparing a map on a
review that any boundary of an area of open country is to be treated as
coinciding with a particular physical feature (whether the effect is to
include other land as open country or to exclude part of an area of open
country).

#### Childcare: use of non-domestic premises

237

237.1

In section 96 of the Childcare Act 2006 (meaning of early years and later
years provision etc), in each of subsections (4) and (8) omit “, where at
least half of the provision is on domestic premises”.

237.2

Schedule 23  amends the Childcare Act 2006 to make provision relating to the
registration of persons providing childminding wholly on non-domestic
premises.

#### Childcare: number of providers

238

In section 96 of the Childcare Act 2006 (meaning of early years and later
years provision etc), in each of subsections (5) and (9), for “three”
substitute  “four” .

#### Amendments of Schedule 7B to the Government of Wales Act 2006

239

239.1

Schedule 7B to the Government of Wales Act 2006 (general restrictions on
legislative competence of Senedd Cymru) is amended in accordance with
subsections  (2)  and  (3) .

239.2

In paragraph 9(8)(b) (exceptions to restrictions relating to reserved
authorities)—

239.2.a

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (vi);

239.2.b

after paragraph (vii) insert

; or

239.2.b.viii

Chapter 1  of  Part 3  or  Part 6  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act
2023.

239.3

In paragraph 11(6)(b) (exceptions to restrictions relating to Ministers of the
Crown)—

239.3.a

omit the “or” at the end of the first paragraph (ix);

239.3.b

for the second paragraph (ix) substitute—

239.3.b.x

the Trade (Australia and New Zealand) Act 2023; or

239.3.b.xi

Chapter 1  of  Part 3  or  Part 6  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act
2023.

239.4

In the Procurement Act 2023—

239.4.a

in section 118 (concurrent powers and the Government of Wales Act 2006), for
paragraphs (c) and (d) substitute—

239.4.a.c

at the end of paragraph 11(6)(b)(x), omit “or”, and

239.4.a.d

in paragraph 11(6)(b)(xi), at the end insert

, or

239.4.a.d.xii

the Procurement Act 2023.

;

239.4.b

in Schedule 11 (repeals and revocations), for paragraph 1 substitute—

239.4.b.1

In Schedule 7B to the Government of Wales Act 2006 (general restrictions on
devolved competence)—

239.4.b.1.a

paragraph 9(9)(d) (as inserted by the Trade (Australia and New Zealand) Act
2023), and

239.4.b.1.b

paragraph 11(6)(b)(x) (as inserted by the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act
2023).

#### Blue plaques in England

240

In paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to the Local Government Act 1985 (Listed
Buildings, Conservation Areas and Ancient Monuments), for “Greater London”
substitute  “any area in England” .

#### Powers of local authority in relation to the provision of childcare

241

In section 8 of the Childcare Act 2006 (powers of local authority in relation
to the provision of childcare)—

241.a

in subsection (1)(c) omit “subject to subsection (3),”;

241.b

omit subsections (3) to (5).

#### Report on enforcement of the Vagrancy Act 1824

242

242.1

The Secretary of State must prepare and publish a report on the impact of the
enforcement of sections 3 and 4 of the Vagrancy Act 1824 on the levelling-up
missions (within the meaning given by section 1(2)(a)).

242.2

The report must be published within the period of 12 months beginning with the
day on which this section comes into force.

242.3

This section ceases to have effect on the day on which section 81 of the
Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 (repeal of the Vagrancy Act 1824
etc) comes into force.

#### Qualifying leases under the Building Safety Act 2022

243

243.1

The Building Safety Act 2022 is amended in accordance with subsections (2) to
(4).

243.2

In section 119 (meaning of “ qualifying lease ”) after subsection (3) insert—

243.2.3A

A connected replacement lease (see section 119A) is also a “qualifying lease”.

243.3

After section 119 insert—

########## Meaning of “connected replacement lease”

243.3.119A

243.3.119A.1

For the purposes of section 119 (and this section) a lease (the “new lease”)
is a “connected replacement lease” if—

243.3.119A.1.a

the new lease is a lease of a single dwelling in a relevant building,

243.3.119A.1.b

the tenant under the new lease is liable to pay a service charge,

243.3.119A.1.c

the new lease was granted on or after 14 February 2022,

243.3.119A.1.d

the new lease replaces—

243.3.119A.1.d.i

one other lease, which is a qualifying lease (whether under section 119(2) or
(3A)), or

243.3.119A.1.d.ii

two or more other leases, at least one of which is a qualifying lease (whether
under section 119(2) or (3A)), and

243.3.119A.1.e

there is continuity in the property let.

243.3.119A.2

For the purposes of subsection (1)(d), the new lease replaces another lease
if—

243.3.119A.2.a

the term of the new lease begins during the term of the other lease, and the
new lease is granted in substitution of the other lease, or

243.3.119A.2.b

the term of the new lease begins at the end of the term of the other lease
(regardless of when the lease is granted).

243.3.119A.3

For the purposes of subsection (2)(a), the circumstances in which the new
lease is granted in substitution of another lease include circumstances where—

243.3.119A.3.a

the new lease is granted by way of a surrender and regrant of the other lease
(including a deemed surrender and regrant, whether deemed under an enactment
or otherwise);

243.3.119A.3.b

the new lease is granted under—

243.3.119A.3.b.i

section 24 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1954 (renewed business leases),

243.3.119A.3.b.ii

section 14 of, or Schedule 1 to, the Leasehold Reform Act 1967 (extension of
leases of houses), or

243.3.119A.3.b.iii

section 56 of the Leasehold Reform, Housing and Urban Development Act 1993
(extension of leases of flats),

in a case where that provision of that Act applies by virtue of the other
lease.

243.3.119A.4

For the purposes of subsection (1)(e) there is continuity in the property let
if—

243.3.119A.4.a

the newly let property is exactly the same as the already let property,

243.3.119A.4.b

the newly let property consists of some or all of the already let property,
together with other property (whether or not that other property was
previously let) (a “property combination”), or

243.3.119A.4.c

the newly let property consists of some, but not all, of the already let
property (but no other property) (a “property reduction”).

243.3.119A.5

But there is no continuity in the property let by virtue of a property
reduction if, as respects any lease in the relevant chain of qualifying
leases, there was continuity in the property let by virtue of a property
combination.

243.3.119A.6

For that purpose, the “relevant” chain of qualifying leases is the chain of
qualifying leases of which the new lease would be part were it a connected
replacement lease.

243.3.119A.7

For the purposes of subsection (1)(e) there is also continuity in the property
let if the new lease is granted to rectify any error in the lease, or any
lease, which the new lease replaces.

243.3.119A.8

Where a dwelling is at any time on or after 14 February 2022 let under two or
more leases to which subsection (1)(a) and (b) apply, any of the leases which
is superior to any of the other leases is not a connected replacement lease.

243.3.119A.9

For the purposes of sections 122 to 125 and Schedule 8, all of the leases in a
chain of qualifying leases are to be treated as a single qualifying lease
which has a term that—

243.3.119A.9.a

began when the term of the initial qualifying lease in that chain began, and

243.3.119A.9.b

ends when the term of the current connected replacement lease in that chain
ends.

243.3.119A.10

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the meaning of
“ connected replacement lease ” (including provision changing the meaning).

243.3.119A.11

The provision that may be made in regulations under this section includes—

243.3.119A.11.a

provision which amends this section;

243.3.119A.11.b

provision which has retrospective effect.

243.3.119A.12

Provision in regulations under this section made by virtue of section
168(2)(a) (consequential provision etc) may (in particular) amend this Act.

243.3.119A.13

In this section—

      “ already let property ”, in relation to a new lease, means the property
let by the lease or leases which the new lease replaces;           “ chain of
qualifying leases ” means—         an initial qualifying lease which is the
preceding qualifying lease in relation to a connected replacement lease (the
“first replacement lease”),           the first replacement lease, and
any other connected replacement lease if the preceding qualifying lease in
relation to it is—         the first replacement lease, or           any other
connected replacement lease which is in the chain of qualifying leases;
and a chain of qualifying leases may accordingly consist of different leases
at different times (if further connected replacement leases are granted);
“ current connected replacement lease ”, in relation to a particular time,
means a connected replacement lease during the term of which that time falls;
“ initial qualifying lease ” means a lease which is a qualifying lease under
section 119(2);           “ new lease ” has the meaning given in subsection
(1);           “ newly let property ” means the property let by the new lease;
“ preceding qualifying lease ”, in relation to the new lease, means—
in a case within subsection (1)(d)(i), the lease which the new lease replaces;
in a case within subsection (1)(d)(ii), a lease which—         the new lease
replaces, and           is a qualifying lease.

243.3.119A.14

The definitions in section 119(4) also apply for the purposes of this section.

243.4

In section 168(6)(a) (affirmative procedure for regulations), after “74,”
insert  “119A,” .

243.5

The amendments made by this section are to be treated as having come into
force on 28 June 2022.

#### Road user charging schemes in London

244

244.1

Schedule 23 to GLAA 1999 (road user charging) is amended as follows.

244.2

After paragraph 1(3) insert—

244.2.3A

Any reference in this Schedule to national obligations is a reference to
obligations imposed by or under any enactment on a Minister of the Crown.

244.3

After paragraph 3 insert—

########## Proposals relating to certain TfL schemes: opt out

244.3.3A

244.3.3A.1

This paragraph applies where Transport for London proposes to—

244.3.3A.1.a

make a TfL scheme the purpose, or one of the purposes, of which is the
improvement of air quality, or

244.3.3A.1.b

significantly vary a TfL scheme where the purpose, or one of the purposes, of
the variation is the improvement of air quality.

244.3.3A.2

Transport for London must publish a draft order containing the proposed TfL
scheme or the proposed variations to the TfL scheme.

244.3.3A.3

The draft order must be in such form as the Authority may determine.

244.3.3A.4

Transport for London may not make the order and submit it to the Authority in
accordance with paragraph 4(1) otherwise than in accordance with  sub-
paragraph (8) .

244.3.3A.5

A relevant London borough council may, within the opt-out period, give notice
that it wants to opt out of the scheme (an “opt-out notice”).

244.3.3A.6

An opt-out notice must be given to—

244.3.3A.6.a

Transport for London, and

244.3.3A.6.b

the Secretary of State.

244.3.3A.7

A London borough council is “relevant” if—

244.3.3A.7.a

any of the council’s area falls within the charging area of the proposed TfL
scheme or of the TfL scheme after the proposed variations have been made, and

244.3.3A.7.b

the principal purpose of the scheme applying in the council’s area is the
improvement of air quality.

244.3.3A.8

After the opt-out period has ended—

244.3.3A.8.a

if  sub-paragraph (9)  applies, Transport for London may make the order and
submit it to the Authority in accordance with paragraph 4(1);

244.3.3A.8.b

if  sub-paragraph (10)  applies, Transport for London may make the order and
submit it to the Authority in accordance with paragraph 4(1) only if Transport
for London first modifies the order so that the proposed TfL scheme, or the
TfL scheme after the proposed variations have been made, will not apply to the
area of each eligible council which has given, and not withdrawn, an opt-out
notice.

244.3.3A.9

This sub-paragraph applies if—

244.3.3A.9.a

no opt-out notice has been given within the opt-out period or any opt-out
notices that have been given within that period have been withdrawn, or

244.3.3A.9.b

one or more opt-out notices have been given within the opt-out period and have
not been withdrawn, but each of them was given by a London borough council
that is an ineligible council (whether or not that council was an ineligible
council at the time the opt-out notice was given) and in each case either—

244.3.3A.9.b.i

the council did not submit an alternative plan, within the opt-out period, to
the Secretary of State under paragraph  3B , or

244.3.3A.9.b.ii

the council did so submit an alternative plan and the plan has been rejected
under that paragraph.

244.3.3A.10

This sub-paragraph applies if—

244.3.3A.10.a

one or more opt-out notices have been given within the opt-out period and have
not been withdrawn,

244.3.3A.10.b

in the case of any opt-out notice that was given by a London borough council
that is an ineligible council (whether or not that council was an ineligible
council at the time the opt-out notice was given)—

244.3.3A.10.b.i

the council did not submit an alternative plan, within the opt-out period, to
the Secretary of State under paragraph  3B , or

244.3.3A.10.b.ii

the council did so submit an alternative plan and the plan has been rejected
under that paragraph, and

244.3.3A.10.c

one or more of the opt-out notices that have been given, and not withdrawn,
was given by a London borough council that is an eligible council (whether or
not that council was an eligible council at the time the opt-out notice was
given).

244.3.3A.11

A relevant London borough council is an “eligible council” if it has complied
with any duty imposed on it under or by virtue of Part 4 of the Environment
Act 1995 and—

244.3.3A.11.a

no part of the council’s area is designated, or is required to be designated,
as an air quality management area under section 83 of the Environment Act 1995
(designation of air quality management areas), or

244.3.3A.11.b

if any part of the council’s area is so designated, or required to be so
designated, the council has an alternative plan that has been approved by the
Secretary of State under paragraph  3B .

244.3.3A.12

In this paragraph and paragraph  3B —

      “ alternative plan ” means a plan for improving air quality in the area
of the London borough council which does not involve the TfL scheme applying
to any of the area of the London borough council;           “ eligible council
” has the meaning given by  sub-paragraph (11)  and “ineligible council” is to
be read accordingly;           “ opt-out notice ” has the meaning given by
sub-paragraph (5) ;           “ opt-out period ” means the period of 10 weeks
beginning with the day on which the draft order containing the proposed TfL
scheme, or the proposed variations to the TfL scheme, is published in
accordance with sub-paragraph  (2) ;           “ relevant London borough
council ” has the meaning given by  sub-paragraph (7) .

244.3.3B

244.3.3B.1

This paragraph applies where paragraph  3A  applies and a relevant London
borough council—

244.3.3B.1.a

gives an opt-out notice, within the opt-out period, in relation to the TfL
scheme and does not withdraw it, and

244.3.3B.1.b

submits an alternative plan to the Secretary of State within that period.

244.3.3B.2

The London borough council must—

244.3.3B.2.a

notify Transport for London that the council has submitted the alternative
plan, and

244.3.3B.2.b

provide Transport for London with a copy of it.

244.3.3B.3

The Secretary of State must, before the end of the review period, by notice to
the London borough council and Transport for London—

244.3.3B.3.a

approve the alternative plan, or

244.3.3B.3.b

reject the alternative plan.

244.3.3B.4

Subject to  sub-paragraph (5) , the Secretary of State must approve the
alternative plan if the Secretary of State is satisfied that it is likely to
achieve and maintain improvements in relation to air quality standards and
objectives, in every part of the London borough council’s area that is
designated, or is required to be designated, as mentioned in  paragraph 3A
(11) (a) , that are similar to those that the proposed TfL scheme, or the TfL
scheme after the proposed variations have been made, is likely to achieve if
it applies to the area of the council.

244.3.3B.5

The Secretary of State is not required to approve the alternative plan if the
Secretary of State considers that the plan is inconsistent, or could be
inconsistent, with national policies or obligations relating to air quality.

244.3.3B.6

At any time during the review period before the Secretary of State approves or
rejects the alternative plan under  sub-paragraph (3) , the Secretary of State
may invite the London borough council to modify the plan for the purposes of
securing that—

244.3.3B.6.a

the Secretary of State can be satisfied as mentioned in  sub-paragraph (4) ,
or

244.3.3B.6.b

the plan is consistent with national policies or obligations relating to air
quality,

and if the council modifies the plan, sub-paragraphs  (3)  to  (5)  apply in
relation to the plan as modified.

244.3.3B.7

The review period is the period of 16 weeks beginning with the day after the
day on which the opt-out period ends.

244.3.3B.8

The Secretary of State may on one or more occasions extend the review period.

244.3.3B.9

The Secretary of State must give notice of any extension under  sub-paragraph
(8)  to—

244.3.3B.9.a

each London borough council that has—

244.3.3B.9.a.i

given an opt-out notice, within the opt-out period, in relation to the TfL
scheme and not withdrawn it, and

244.3.3B.9.a.ii

submitted an alternative plan to the Secretary of State within that period,
and

244.3.3B.9.b

Transport for London.

244.3.3B.10

Where a London borough council’s alternative plan has been approved under this
paragraph, the Mayor may issue a direction to the council requiring it to take
such steps as may be specified in the direction for the purpose of securing
that the alternative plan is implemented.

244.3.3B.11

The power to give a direction under  sub-paragraph (10)  may only be exercised
by the Mayor after consultation with the London borough council concerned.

244.3.3B.12

Where the Mayor issues a direction to a London borough council under  sub-
paragraph (10) , the council must comply with the direction.

244.3.3B.13

In  sub-paragraph (4)  the reference to air quality standards and objectives
is to air quality standards and objectives within the meaning of Part 4 of the
Environment Act 1995.

244.4

After paragraph 4(2) insert—

244.4.2A

Where an order has been modified in accordance with  paragraph 3A (8) (b)
before being made and submitted by Transport for London under this paragraph,
the Authority must—

244.4.2A.a

require Transport for London to publish its proposals for the TfL scheme, or
the proposed variations to the TfL scheme, and to consider objections to the
proposals, and

244.4.2A.b

consult or require Transport for London to consult—

244.4.2A.b.i

any London borough council any of whose area falls within the charging area of
the proposed TfL scheme or of the TfL scheme after the proposed variations
have been made,

244.4.2A.b.ii

the Secretary of State, and

244.4.2A.b.iii

such other persons as the Authority considers appropriate.

244.4.2B

In a case not falling within  sub-paragraph (2A) , the Authority may—

244.4.2B.a

consult, or require an authority making a charging scheme to consult, other
persons;

244.4.2B.b

require such an authority to publish its proposals for the scheme and to
consider objections to the proposals.

244.5

In paragraph 4(3)—

244.5.a

in the opening words, for “The” substitute  “In any case, the” ;

244.5.b

omit paragraphs (a) and (aa).

244.6

After paragraph 4 insert—

########## Secretary of State’s intervention power in relation to certain schemes

244.6.4A

244.6.4A.1

This paragraph applies where—

244.6.4A.1.a

the Secretary of State has been consulted under paragraph 4 (2A) (b) (ii)
about an order containing a proposal for a TfL scheme or proposed variations
to a TfL scheme, and

244.6.4A.1.b

the Authority has—

244.6.4A.1.b.i

made any modifications to the order under paragraph 4(3)(d) that it considers
appropriate, or

244.6.4A.1.b.ii

decided not to make any such modifications.

244.6.4A.2

The Authority may not confirm the order under paragraph 4(1) unless—

244.6.4A.2.a

the Authority has published the order, and

244.6.4A.2.b

the condition in  sub-paragraph (3)  has been met.

244.6.4A.3

The condition in this sub-paragraph is met if—

244.6.4A.3.a

the period of 60 days beginning with the day on which the order is published
(the “confirmation period”) expires without the Secretary of State giving the
Authority a direction in relation to the order under  sub-paragraph (4) , or

244.6.4A.3.b

before the end of the confirmation period the Secretary of State gives the
Authority a direction in relation to the order under  sub-paragraph (4)  and
the Authority has modified the order in accordance with the direction.

244.6.4A.4

Where the Secretary of State considers that as a result of the order being
modified in accordance with  paragraph 3A (8) (b) —

244.6.4A.4.a

the proposed TfL scheme contained in the order would or could be inconsistent
with national policies or obligations relating to air quality, or

244.6.4A.4.b

the TfL scheme after the proposed variations contained in the order have been
made would or could be inconsistent with such policies or obligations,

the Secretary of State may, within the confirmation period, direct the
Authority to make modifications to the order so as to prevent the
inconsistency by expanding the charging area of the proposed TfL scheme
contained in the order, or the TfL scheme after the proposed variations
contained in the order have been made, to include any of the area of a London
borough council to which the scheme would not otherwise apply by virtue of the
modification in accordance with  paragraph 3A (8) (b) .

244.7

In paragraph 34B(1), after “functions” insert  “, or the Secretary of State’s
functions,” .

244.8

In paragraph 38—

244.8.a

after “sub-paragraphs” insert  “(2A), (2B),” ;

244.8.b

at the end insert  “, but does not apply to a variation to a TfL scheme made
as a result of a modification to an order under  paragraph 4A (3) (b)  ” .

#### Protected landscapes

245

245.1

The National Parks and Access to the Countryside Act 1949 is amended in
accordance with subsections  (2)  and  (3) .

245.2

In section 4A (application of Part 2 of Act to Wales), after subsection (2)
insert—

245.2.3

Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to section 11A(1A) or (1B) (duty to
further statutory purposes of National Parks in England).

245.3

In section 11A (duty to have regard to purposes of National Parks)—

245.3.a

in the heading, for “to have regard” substitute  “in relation” ;

245.3.b

after subsection (1), insert—

245.3.b.1A

In exercising or performing any functions in relation to, or so as to affect,
land in any National Park in England, a relevant authority other than a
devolved Welsh authority must seek to further the purposes specified in
section 5(1) and if it appears that there is a conflict between those
purposes, must attach greater weight to the purpose of conserving and
enhancing the natural beauty, wildlife and cultural heritage of the area
comprised in the National Park.

245.3.b.1B

In exercising or performing any functions in relation to, or so as to affect,
land in any National Park in England, a devolved Welsh authority must have
regard to the purposes specified in section 5(1) and if it appears that there
is a conflict between those purposes, must attach greater weight to the
purpose of conserving and enhancing the natural beauty, wildlife and cultural
heritage of the area comprised in the National Park.

;

245.3.c

in subsection (2), after “Park”, in the first place it occurs, insert  “in
Wales” ;

245.3.d

after that subsection, insert—

245.3.d.2A

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about how a relevant
authority is to comply with the duty under  subsection (1A)  (including
provision about things that the authority may, must or must not do to comply
with the duty).

;

245.3.e

after subsection (5), insert—

245.3.e.5A

In this section, “ devolved Welsh authority ” has the same meaning as in the
Government of Wales Act 2006 (see, in particular, section 157A of that Act).

245.4

After section 66 of the Environment Act 1995 (national park management plans),
insert—

########## National Park Management Plans (England): further provision

245.4.66A

245.4.66A.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision—

245.4.66A.1.a

requiring a National Park Management Plan for a park in England to contribute
to the meeting of any target set under Chapter 1 of Part 1 of the Environment
Act 2021;

245.4.66A.1.b

setting out how such a Management Plan must contribute to the meeting of such
targets;

245.4.66A.1.c

setting out how such a Management Plan must further the purposes specified in
section 5(1) of the National Parks and Access to the Countryside Act 1949.

245.4.66A.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision—

245.4.66A.2.a

requiring a relevant authority other than a devolved Welsh authority to
contribute to the preparation, implementation or review of a National Park
Management Plan for a park in England;

245.4.66A.2.b

setting out how such a relevant authority may or must do so.

245.4.66A.3

In this section—

      “ devolved Welsh authority ” has the same meaning as in the Government
of Wales Act 2006 (see, in particular, section 157A of that Act);           “
relevant authority ” has the same meaning as in section 11A of the National
Parks and Access to the Countryside Act 1949.

########## Regulations under section 66A: procedure etc

245.4.66B

245.4.66B.1

The power to make regulations under section 66A—

245.4.66B.1.a

is exercisable by statutory instrument;

245.4.66B.1.b

includes power to make different provision for different purposes or different
areas;

245.4.66B.1.c

includes power to make incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional,
transitory or saving provision.

245.4.66B.2

A statutory instrument containing regulations under section 66A is subject to
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

245.5

The Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000 is amended in accordance with
subsections  (6)  to  (10) .

245.6

In section 85 (general duty of public bodies etc)—

245.6.a

before subsection (1), insert—

245.6.a.A1

In exercising or performing any functions in relation to, or so as to affect,
land in an area of outstanding natural beauty in England, a relevant authority
other than a devolved Welsh authority must seek to further the purpose of
conserving and enhancing the natural beauty of the area of outstanding natural
beauty.

245.6.a.A2

In exercising or performing any functions in relation to, or so as to affect,
land in an area of outstanding natural beauty in England, a devolved Welsh
authority must have regard to the purpose of conserving and enhancing the
natural beauty of the area of outstanding natural beauty.

;

245.6.b

in subsection (1), after “beauty”, in the first place it occurs, insert  “in
Wales” ;

245.6.c

after that subsection, insert—

245.6.c.1A

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about how a relevant
authority is to comply with the duty under  subsection (A1)  (including
provision about things that the authority may, must or must not do to comply
with the duty).

;

245.6.d

in subsection (3), after “(2)—” insert—

      “ devolved Welsh authority ” has the same meaning as in the Government
of Wales Act 2006 (see, in particular, section 157A of that Act);

.

245.7

In section 87 (general purposes and powers)—

245.7.a

before subsection (1) insert—

245.7.a.A1

It is the duty of a conservation board established in relation to an area in
England, in the exercise of their functions, to seek to further—

245.7.a.A1.a

the purpose of conserving and enhancing the natural beauty of the area of
outstanding natural beauty, and

245.7.a.A1.b

the purpose of increasing the understanding and enjoyment by the public of the
special qualities of the area of outstanding natural beauty,

but if it appears to the board that there is a conflict between those
purposes, they are to attach greater weight to the purpose mentioned in
paragraph (a).

;

245.7.b

in subsection (1), after “board”, in the first place it occurs, insert
“established in relation to an area in Wales” ;

245.7.c

in subsection (2), for the words from “while” to “(1)” substitute  “whilst
fulfilling their duties under subsection (A1) or (1) (as the case may be)” .

245.8

In section 90 (supplementary provisions relating to management plans), after
subsection (2) insert—

245.8.2A

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision—

245.8.2A.a

requiring a plan under section 89 relating to an area of outstanding natural
beauty in England to contribute to the meeting of any target set under Chapter
1 of Part 1 of the Environment Act 2021;

245.8.2A.b

setting out how such a plan must contribute to the meeting of such targets;

245.8.2A.c

setting out how a plan under section 89 relating to an area of outstanding
natural beauty in England must further the purpose of conserving and enhancing
the natural beauty of that area.

245.9

After that section insert—

########## Duty of public bodies etc in relation to management plans

245.9.90A

245.9.90A.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision—

245.9.90A.1.a

requiring a relevant authority other than a devolved Welsh authority to
contribute to the preparation, implementation or review of a plan under
section 89 relating to an area of outstanding natural beauty in England;

245.9.90A.1.b

setting out how such a relevant authority may or must do so.

245.9.90A.2

In this section—

      “ devolved Welsh authority ” has the same meaning as in the Government
of Wales Act 2006 (see, in particular, section 157A of that Act);           “
relevant authority ” has the same meaning as in section 85.

245.10

After section 91 insert—

########## Regulations under Part 4

245.10.91A

245.10.91A.1

A power to make regulations under this Part—

245.10.91A.1.a

is exercisable by statutory instrument;

245.10.91A.1.b

includes power to make different provision for different purposes or different
areas;

245.10.91A.1.c

includes power to make consequential, incidental, supplementary, transitional,
transitory or saving provision.

245.10.91A.2

Regulations under this Part are to be made by statutory instrument.

245.10.91A.3

A statutory instrument containing regulations under this Part is subject to
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

245.11

The Norfolk and Suffolk Broads Act 1988 is amended in accordance with
subsections  (12)  to  (15) .

245.12

In section 3 (the Broads Plan), after subsection (6) insert—

245.12.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision—

245.12.7.a

requiring the Broads Plan to contribute to the meeting of any target set under
Chapter 1 of Part 1 of the Environment Act 2021;

245.12.7.b

setting out how the Broads Plan must contribute to the meeting of such
targets;

245.12.7.c

setting out how the Broads Plan must further the purposes mentioned in
subsection (8) .

245.12.8

The purposes are the purposes of—

245.12.8.a

conserving and enhancing the natural beauty, wildlife and cultural heritage of
the Broads;

245.12.8.b

promoting opportunities for the understanding and enjoyment of the special
qualities of the Broads by the public; and

245.12.8.c

protecting the interests of navigation.

245.13

In section 17A (general duty of public bodies etc)—

245.13.a

in subsection (1), for “shall have regard to” substitute  “must seek to
further” ;

245.13.b

after that subsection insert—

245.13.b.1A

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about how a relevant
authority is to comply with the duty under subsection (1) (including provision
about things that the authority may, must or must not do to comply with the
duty).

245.14

After that section insert—

########## Duty of public bodies etc to contribute to the Broads Plan

245.14.17B

245.14.17B.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision—

245.14.17B.1.a

requiring a relevant authority other than a devolved Welsh authority to
contribute to the implementation or review of the Broads Plan;

245.14.17B.1.b

setting out how such a relevant authority may or must do so.

245.14.17B.2

In this section—

      “ devolved Welsh authority ” has the same meaning as in the Government
of Wales Act 2006 (see, in particular, section 157A of that Act);           “
relevant authority ” has the same meaning as in section 17A.

245.15

In section 24 (orders and byelaws)—

245.15.a

in the heading, after “orders” insert  “, regulations” ;

245.15.b

in subsection (1), after “orders” insert  “or regulations” ;

245.15.c

in subsection (3), after “orders” insert  “, regulations” .

### General

#### Data protection

246

246.1

This section applies to a duty or power, to disclose or use information,
imposed or conferred by or under any provision of this Act, other than section
86  (in relation to which see subsection  (2)  of that section).

246.2

A duty or power to which this section applies does not operate to require or
authorise the disclosure or use of information which would contravene the data
protection legislation (but the duty or power is to be taken into account in
determining whether the disclosure or use would contravene that legislation).

246.3

In this section “ data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the
Data Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act).

#### Crown application

247

247.1

This Act binds the Crown, subject to subsections  (2)  to  (4) .

247.2

The amendments made by this Act bind the Crown only to the extent that the
provisions amended bind the Crown.

247.3

Part 10  does not apply in relation to land that is Crown land for the
purposes of Part 13 of TCPA 1990 (see section 293 of that Act).

247.4

Part 11  does not apply in relation to land belonging to His Majesty in right
of His private estates (as construed in accordance with section 1 of the Crown
Private Estates Act 1862).

#### Amendments of references to “retained direct EU legislation”

248

In  section 166 (3) (e)  for “retained direct EU legislation” substitute
“assimilated direct legislation”

#### Abbreviated references to certain Acts

249

In this Act—

      “ GLAA 1999 ” means the Greater London Authority Act 1999;           “
the Hazardous Substances Act ” means the Planning (Hazardous Substances) Act
1990;           “ the Listed Buildings Act ” means the Planning (Listed
Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990;           “ PCPA 2004 ” means
the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004;           “ TCPA 1990 ” means
the Town and Country Planning Act 1990.

#### Power to make consequential provision

250

250.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision that is consequential
on this Act or any provision made under it.

250.2

Regulations under this section may amend, repeal or revoke provision made by
this Act or any provision made by or under primary legislation passed—

250.2.a

before this Act, or

250.2.b

in the same session of Parliament as this Act.

250.3

In this section “ primary legislation ” means—

250.3.a

an Act,

250.3.b

an Act or Measure of Senedd Cymru,

250.3.c

an Act of the Scottish Parliament, or

250.3.d

Northern Ireland legislation.

#### Power to address conflicts with the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023

251

251.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this Act, or any Act amended
by this Act, in consequence of a relevant amending provision of the Historic
Environment (Wales) Act 2023 (“HEWA 2023”) coming into force before a
provision of this Act.

251.2

That power includes, in relation to an Act amended by this Act, the power to
make amendments to serve in place of those contained in this Act.

251.3

Amendments made in reliance on subsection  (2)  must produce in substance the
same effect in relation to England as the amendments contained in this Act
would produce if the relevant amending provision of HEWA 2023 were ignored.

251.4

In this section—

      “ amend ” includes repeal, and related terms are to be read accordingly;
a “ relevant amending provision ” of HEWA 2023 means a provision of that Act
that amends an enactment that—         is amended by this Act, or
relates to an enactment amended by this Act.

#### Regulations

252

252.1

A power to make regulations under this Act includes power to make—

252.1.a

different provision for different purposes;

252.1.b

different provision for different areas;

252.1.c

consequential, incidental, supplementary, transitional, transitory or saving
provision.

252.2

A power to make regulations under  Chapter 1  of  Part 2 , in the case of
regulations other than regulations under section  13 (1)  or regulations
mentioned in subsection  (8) (a)  to  (c) , includes power to make provision
amending, applying (with or without modifications), disapplying, repealing or
revoking any enactment whenever passed or made.

252.3

Regulations under this Act are to be made by statutory instrument.

252.4

A statutory instrument containing regulations that fall within  subsection (5)
may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before, and
approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament.

252.5

Regulations fall within this subsection if they contain provision (whether
alone or with other provision)—

252.5.a

under Chapter 1 of  Part 2 , other than provision of the kind mentioned in
subsection  (8) (a)  to  (c) ;

252.5.b

under  section 81 (6) (b) ;

252.5.c

under section  132 ;

252.5.d

under  Part 5  other than section  142 (1) (a) ;

252.5.e

under  section 217 ;

252.5.f

under  Part 11 ;

252.5.g

under  section 228 ;

252.5.h

under  section 233 ;

252.5.i

which—

252.5.i.i

amends or repeals any provision of primary legislation, and

252.5.i.ii

is not made under section  251  or under section  250  in consequence of
regulations under section  251 .

252.6

A statutory instrument containing regulations which fall within  subsection
(8)  is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

252.7

Subsection  (6)  does not apply if a draft of the instrument has been laid
before, and approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament.

252.8

Regulations fall within this subsection if they contain provision (whether
alone or with other provision)—

252.8.a

under section  45 (8)  or  47 (9) ;

252.8.b

under section  51 (1)  made only for the purpose mentioned in section  51 (5)
(b) ;

252.8.c

under section  51 (2)  made only for that purpose or for imposing conditions
on the doing of things for a commercial purpose;

252.8.d

under  section 81 , other than  section 81 (6) (b) ;

252.8.e

under  section 108 ;

252.8.f

under  section 142 (1) (a) ;

252.8.g

under section  187 ;

252.8.h

under  Part 10 ;

252.8.i

under  section 230 (2) (a) (vii)  or  (6) (a) ;

252.8.j

under  section 250 ;

252.8.k

under section  251 .

252.9

Subsections  (3)  to  (8)  do not apply to regulations under  Chapter 1  of
Part 3  or  Part 6 .

252.10

Schedule 24  contains provision about regulations made under  Chapter 1  of
Part 3  or  Part 6 .

252.11

If a draft of a statutory instrument containing regulations under  Chapter 1
of  Part 2  or  section 228  would, apart from this subsection, be treated for
the purposes of the standing orders of either House of Parliament as a hybrid
instrument, it is to proceed in that House as if it were not a hybrid
instrument.

252.12

This section does not apply to regulations under  section 255 .

252.13

In this section “ primary legislation ” means—

252.13.a

an Act,

252.13.b

an Act or Measure of Senedd Cymru,

252.13.c

an Act of the Scottish Parliament, or

252.13.d

Northern Ireland legislation.

#### Financial provisions

253

253.1

There is to be paid out of money provided by Parliament any expenditure
incurred under or by virtue of this Act by a Minister of the Crown or another
public authority.

253.2

There is to be paid out of the National Loans Fund, the Consolidated Fund or
money provided by Parliament any increase attributable to this Act in the sums
payable under any other Act out of the National Loans Fund, the Consolidated
Fund or money so provided.

#### Extent

254

254.1

Part 1  extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

254.2

Part  2  extends to England and Wales only.

254.3

In  Part 3 —

254.3.a

Chapter 1  (including  Schedule 13  so far as it relates to  Chapter 1  of
Part 3 ) extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland;

254.3.b

an amendment or repeal made by Chapters  2  to  6  has the same extent as the
provision amended or repealed;

254.3.c

sections  108  and  132  extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern
Ireland;

254.3.d

section  133  extends to England and Wales and Scotland;

254.3.e

section  136  extends to England and Wales only.

254.4

Parts  4  and  5  extend to England and Wales only.

254.5

Part 6  (including  Schedule 13  so far as it relates to  Part 6 ) extends to
England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

254.6

Part 7  extends to England and Wales only.

254.7

An amendment or repeal made by  Part 8  has the same extent as the provision
amended or repealed.

254.8

Parts  9  and 10 extend to England and Wales only.

254.9

Part  11  extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

254.10

In  Part 12 —

254.10.a

sections  228 ,  229  (and  Schedule 22 ),  230 ,  233  to  236 ,  237  (and
Schedule 23 ),  238 ,  240 ,  241 ,  243  and  245  extend to England and
Wales only;

254.10.b

sections  231 ,  232 ,  239  and  242  extend to England and Wales, Scotland
and Northern Ireland;

254.10.c

section 244  extends to England and Wales and Scotland.

254.11

This Part extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

#### Commencement and transitional provision

255

255.1

In  Part 1 —

255.1.a

section  7  comes into force on the day on which this Act is passed, and

255.1.b

the remaining provisions come into force at the end of the period of two
months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed.

255.2

In  Part 2 —

255.2.a

sections  27  and  45  come into force on the day on which this Act is passed;

255.2.b

in  Schedule 4 —

255.2.b.i

if a provision amended by any of paragraphs  218 ,  222 ,  223  and  224  has
not come into force before the end of the period mentioned in paragraph  (c) ,
that paragraph comes into force when the provision that it amends comes into
force (but otherwise it comes into force at the end of that period);

255.2.b.ii

paragraphs  226  to  230  come into force on such day as the Secretary of
State may by regulations appoint;

255.2.c

the remaining provisions of Chapter  1  come into force at the end of the
period of two months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed;

255.2.d

section  58  comes into force at the end of the period of two months beginning
with the day on which this Act is passed;

255.2.e

sections  59  and  60  come into force on the day on which this Act is passed;

255.2.f

section  61  comes into force at the end of the period of two months beginning
with the day on which this Act is passed;

255.2.g

section  62  comes into force on the day on which this Act is passed;

255.2.h

sections  63  to  65  come into force at the end of the period of two months
beginning with the day on which this Act is passed;

255.2.i

section  66  comes into force on the day on which this Act is passed;

255.2.j

sections  67  to  70  come into force at the end of the period of two months
beginning with the day on which this Act is passed;

255.2.k

sections  71  and  72  come into force on the day on which this Act is passed;

255.2.l

sections  73  and  74  comes into force at the end of the period of two months
beginning with the day on which this Act is passed;

255.2.m

section  75  comes into force on such day as the Secretary of State may by
regulations appoint;

255.2.n

section  76  comes into force at the end of the period of two months beginning
with the day on which this Act is passed;

255.2.o

section  77  comes into force on the day on which this Act is passed;

255.2.p

section  78  comes into force on such day as the Secretary of State may by
regulations appoint;

255.2.q

sections  79  and  80  come into force on the day on which this Act is passed;

255.2.r

section  81  (and  Schedule 5 ) come into force on such day as the Secretary
of State may by regulations appoint;

255.2.s

sections  82  and  83  come into force at the end of the period of two months
beginning with the day on which this Act is passed.

255.3

In  Part 3 —

255.3.a

sections  108 ,  109  (so far as it confers a power to make regulations or to
make a development order),  112 ,  113  and  114  (so far as conferring a
power to make regulations),  121 ,  126  to  128 ,  130  to  133  and  136
come into force at the end of the period of two months beginning with the day
on which this Act is passed;

255.3.b

sections  109 ,  112 ,  113  and  114  (so far as not already commenced by
virtue of paragraph  (a) ),  Schedule 13  (so far as it relates to  Chapter 1
of  Part 3 ) and the other provisions come into force on such day as the
Secretary of State may by regulations appoint.

255.4

Parts 4  and  5  come into force on such day as the Secretary of State may by
regulations appoint.

255.5

Part 6  (including  Schedule 13  so far as it relates to  Part 6 ) comes into
force at the end of the period of two months beginning with the day on which
this Act is passed.

255.6

Part 7  comes into force at the end of the period of two months beginning with
the day on which this Act is passed.

255.7

Parts  8  to  10  come into force on such day as the Secretary of State may by
regulations appoint.

255.8

Part 11  comes into force on the day on which this Act is passed.

255.9

In  Part 12 —

255.9.a

sections  229  (and  Schedule 22 ),  230 ,  232 ,  235 ,  237  (and  Schedule
23 ),  238  and  244  come into force on such day as the Secretary of State
may by regulations appoint;

255.9.b

sections  228 ,  231 ,  233 ,  234 ,  236 ,  239  to  243  and  245  come into
force at the end of the period of two months beginning with the day on which
this Act is passed.

255.10

In this Part—

255.10.a

sections  246 ,  247  and  249  to  256  come into force on the day on which
this Act is passed;

255.10.b

section  248  comes into force at the end of 2023.

255.11

A power under  this section  to appoint a day may be exercised to appoint
different days for different purposes or areas.

255.12

The Secretary of State may by regulations make such transitional, transitory
or saving provision as the Secretary of State considers appropriate in
connection with the coming into force of any provision of this Act.

255.13

The power to make regulations under  subsection (12)  includes power to—

255.13.a

make different provision for different purposes;

255.13.b

make different provision for different areas;

255.13.c

confer a discretion on the Secretary of State to determine how something is
treated under provision made under that subsection.

255.14

Regulations under  this section  are to be made by statutory instrument.

#### Short title

256

This Act may be cited as the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023.

## Schedules

  Combined county authorities: overview and scrutiny committees and audit
committee

Section  15

##### Functions of overview and scrutiny committee

1

1.1

A CCA must arrange for the appointment by the CCA of one or more committees of
the authority (referred to in this Schedule as overview and scrutiny
committees).

1.2

The arrangements must ensure that the CCA’s overview and scrutiny committee
has power (or its overview and scrutiny committees have power between them)—

1.2.a

to review or scrutinise decisions made, or other action taken, in connection
with the discharge of any functions which are the responsibility of the CCA;

1.2.b

to make reports or recommendations to the CCA with respect to the discharge of
any functions that are the responsibility of the CCA;

1.2.c

to make reports or recommendations to the CCA on matters that affect the CCA’s
area or the inhabitants of the area.

1.3

If the CCA is a mayoral CCA, the arrangements must also ensure that the CCA’s
overview and scrutiny committee has power (or its overview and scrutiny
committees have power between them)—

1.3.a

to review or scrutinise decisions made, or other action taken, in connection
with the discharge by the mayor of any general functions;

1.3.b

to make reports or recommendations to the mayor with respect to the discharge
of any general functions;

1.3.c

to make reports or recommendations to the mayor on matters that affect the
CCA’s area or the inhabitants of the area.

1.4

The power of an overview and scrutiny committee under sub-paragraph  (2) (a)
and  (3) (a)  to review or scrutinise a decision made but not implemented
includes—

1.4.a

power to direct that a decision is not to be implemented while it is under
review or scrutiny by the overview and scrutiny committee, and

1.4.b

power to recommend that the decision be reconsidered.

1.5

An overview and scrutiny committee of a CCA must publish details of how it
proposes to exercise its powers in relation to the review and scrutiny of
decisions made but not yet implemented and its arrangements in connection with
the exercise of those powers.

1.6

Before complying with sub-paragraph  (5)  an overview and scrutiny committee
must obtain the consent of the CCA to the proposals and arrangements.

1.7

An overview and scrutiny committee of a CCA may not discharge any functions
other than the functions conferred by or under this Schedule.

1.8

Any reference in this Schedule to the discharge of any functions includes a
reference to the doing of anything which is calculated to facilitate, or is
conducive or incidental to, the discharge of those functions.

##### Overview and scrutiny committees: supplementary provision

2

2.1

An overview and scrutiny committee of a CCA—

2.1.a

may appoint one or more sub-committees, and

2.1.b

may arrange for the discharge of any of its functions by any such sub-
committee.

2.2

A sub-committee of an overview and scrutiny committee may not discharge any
functions other than those conferred on it under sub-paragraph  (1) (b) .

2.3

An overview and scrutiny committee of a CCA may not include a member of the
CCA (including, in the case of a mayoral CCA, the mayor for the CCA’s area or
deputy mayor).

2.4

An overview and scrutiny committee of a CCA is to be treated as a committee or
sub-committee of a principal council for the purposes of Part 5A of the Local
Government Act 1972 (access to meetings and documents of certain authorities,
committees and sub-committees).

2.5

Subsections (2) to (5) of section 102 of the Local Government Act 1972 apply
to an overview and scrutiny committee of a CCA as they apply to a committee
appointed under that section.

2.6

An overview and scrutiny committee of a CCA—

2.6.a

may require the members or officers of the CCA to attend before it to answer
questions (including, in the case of a mayoral CCA, the mayor for the CCA’s
area and deputy mayor), and

2.6.b

may invite other persons to attend meetings of the committee.

2.7

A person on whom a requirement is imposed under sub-paragraph  (6) (a)  is
required to comply with the requirement.

2.8

A person is not obliged by sub-paragraph  (6)  to answer any question which
the person would be entitled to refuse to answer in or for the purposes of
proceedings in a court in England and Wales.

2.9

In exercising, or deciding whether to exercise, any of its functions an
overview and scrutiny committee of a CCA must have regard to any guidance for
the time being issued by the Secretary of State.

2.10

Guidance under sub-paragraph  (9)  may make different provision for different
cases or for different descriptions of committee.

2.11

In sub-paragraphs  (3)  to  (9)  references to an overview and scrutiny
committee of a CCA include references to any sub-committee of such a
committee.

##### Power to make further provision about overview and scrutiny committees

3

3.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make further provision about
overview and scrutiny committees of a CCA.

3.2

Provision under sub-paragraph  (1)  may in particular include provision—

3.2.a

about the membership of an overview and scrutiny committee and the voting
rights of such members;

3.2.b

about the payment of allowances to members of such a committee who are members
of a constituent council;

3.2.c

about the person who is to be chair of such a committee;

3.2.d

for the appointment of a person to act as a scrutiny officer of an overview
and scrutiny committee;

3.2.e

about how and by whom matters may be referred to an overview and scrutiny
committee;

3.2.f

requiring persons (whether members of the CCA or other persons) to respond to
reports or recommendations made by an overview and scrutiny committee;

3.2.g

about the publication of reports, recommendations or responses;

3.2.h

about information which must, or must not, be disclosed to an overview and
scrutiny committee (whether by members of the CCA or by other persons);

3.2.i

as to the minimum or maximum period for which a direction under paragraph  1
(4) (a)  may have effect.

3.3

Provision must be made under sub-paragraph  (2) (a)  so as to ensure that the
majority of members of an overview and scrutiny committee are members of the
CCA’s constituent councils.

3.4

Provision must be made under sub-paragraph  (2) (c)  so as to ensure that the
chair of an overview and scrutiny committee is—

3.4.a

an independent person (as defined by the regulations), or

3.4.b

an appropriate person who is a member of one of the CCA’s constituent
councils.

3.5

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (4) (b)  “appropriate person”—

3.5.a

in relation to a mayoral CCA, means a person who is not a member of a
registered political party of which the mayor is a member, and

3.5.b

in relation to any other CCA, means a person who is not a member of the
registered political party which has the most representatives among the
members of the constituent councils (or, if there is no such party because two
or more parties have the same number of representatives, is not a member of
any of those parties).

3.6

In sub-paragraph  (2) (d)  the reference to a “scrutiny officer” of an
overview and scrutiny committee is a reference to a person appointed with the
function of—

3.6.a

promoting the role of the committee, and

3.6.b

providing support and guidance—

3.6.b.i

to the committee and its members, and

3.6.b.ii

to members of the CCA (so far as relating to the functions of the committee).

3.7

Provision under sub-paragraph  (2) (g)  may include provision for descriptions
of confidential or exempt information to be excluded from the publication of
reports, recommendations or responses.

3.8

In this paragraph “ registered political party ” means a party registered
under Part 2 of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.

3.9

In this paragraph references to an overview and scrutiny committee include
references to any sub-committee of such a committee.

##### Audit committees

4

4.1

A CCA must arrange for the appointment by the CCA of an audit committee.

4.2

The functions of the audit committee are to include—

4.2.a

reviewing and scrutinising the CCA’s financial affairs,

4.2.b

reviewing and assessing the CCA’s risk management, internal control and
corporate governance arrangements,

4.2.c

reviewing and assessing the economy, efficiency and effectiveness with which
resources have been used in discharging the CCA’s functions, and

4.2.d

making reports and recommendations to the CCA in relation to reviews conducted
under paragraphs  (a) ,  (b)  and  (c) .

4.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about—

4.3.a

the membership of a CCA’s audit committee;

4.3.b

the appointment of the members;

4.3.c

the payment of allowances to members of the committee who are members of a
constituent council.

4.4

Provision must be made under sub-paragraph  (3)  so as to ensure that at least
one member of an audit committee is an independent person (as defined by the
regulations).

Mayors for combined county authority areas: further provisions about elections

Section  27

##### Interpretation

1

In this Schedule references to a mayor are references to a mayor for the area
of a CCA.

##### Timing of elections

2

2.1

The term of office of a mayor is to be four years.

2.2

The first election for the return of a mayor is to take place on the first day
of ordinary elections of councillors of a constituent council to take place
after the end of the period of 6 months beginning with the day on which the
regulations under section  27 (1)  come into force.

2.3

Subsequent elections for the return of a mayor are to take place in every
fourth year thereafter on the same day as the ordinary election of councillors
of that constituent council.

2.4

But this paragraph has effect subject to any provision made under paragraph  3
.

3

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision—

3.a

as to the dates on which and years in which elections for the return of a
mayor may or must take place,

3.b

as to the intervals between elections for the return of a mayor,

3.c

as to the term of office of a mayor, and

3.d

as to the filling of vacancies in the office of a mayor.

##### Voting at elections of mayors

4

4.1

Each person entitled to vote as an elector at an election for the return of a
mayor is to have one vote which may be given for a candidate to be the mayor.

4.2

The mayor is to be returned under the simple majority system.

##### Entitlement to vote

5

5.1

The persons entitled to vote as electors at an election for the return of a
mayor for the area of a CCA are those who on the day of the poll—

5.1.a

would be entitled to vote as electors at an election of councillors for an
electoral area situated wholly or partly within the area of the CCA, and

5.1.b

are registered in the register of local government electors at an address
within the CCA’s area.

5.2

A person is not entitled as an elector to cast more than one vote at an
election for the return of a mayor.

5.3

In this paragraph—

“ electoral area ” has the meaning given by section 203(1) of the
Representation of the People Act 1983; “ local government elector ” has the
meaning given by section 270(1) of the Local Government Act 1972.

##### Election as mayor and councillor

6

6.1

If the person who is returned at an election as the mayor for the area of a
CCA is also returned at an election held at the same time as a councillor of a
constituent council, a vacancy arises in the office of councillor.

6.2

If the person who is returned at an election (“the mayoral election”) as the
mayor for the area of a CCA —

6.2.a

is a councillor of a constituent council, and

6.2.b

was returned as such a councillor at an election held at an earlier time than
the mayoral election,

a vacancy arises in the office of councillor.

6.3

Subject to sub-paragraph  (4) , a person who is elected as the mayor for the
area of a CCA may not be a candidate in an election for the return of a
councillor or councillors of a constituent council.

6.4

A person who is the mayor for the area of a CCA may be a candidate in an
election for the return of a councillor or councillors of a constituent
council if the election is held at the same time as an election for the return
of the mayor, but sub-paragraph  (1)  applies if the person is a candidate in
both such elections and is returned as the mayor and as a councillor.

##### Qualification and disqualification

7

7.1

In order to be qualified to be elected and to hold office as the mayor for the
area of a CCA, a person must, on the relevant day, be—

7.1.a

at least 18 years old, and

7.1.b

a qualifying citizen.

7.2

The person must also—

7.2.a

on and after the relevant day, be entitled (under paragraph  5 ) to vote in
the election for the return of the mayor for that area, or

7.2.b

for the twelve months before the relevant day—

7.2.b.i

have occupied, as owner or tenant, land or other premises within an electoral
area situated wholly or partly within the area of the CCA,

7.2.b.ii

had their principal or only place of work in that electoral area, or

7.2.b.iii

resided in that electoral area.

7.3

In this paragraph—

“ electoral area ” has the meaning given by section 203(1) of the
Representation of the People Act 1983; “ qualifying citizen ” means a person
who is— a qualifying Commonwealth citizen (within the meaning given by section
79 of the Local Government Act 1972), a citizen of the Republic of Ireland, a
qualifying EU citizen (within the meaning given by section 203A of the
Representation of the People Act 1983), or an EU citizen with retained rights
(within the meaning given by section 203B of that Act); “ relevant day ”
means— if the election is preceded by the nomination of candidates, the day on
which the person is nominated, and if the election is not preceded by the
nomination of candidates, the day of the election.

7.4

Until the coming into force of paragraph 5 of Schedule 8 to the Elections Act
2022 (amendment of paragraph 8(3) of Schedule 5B to the Local Democracy,
Economic Development and Construction Act 2009 relating to candidacy rights of
EU citizens), sub-paragraph (3) has effect as if for the definition of
“qualifying citizen” there were substituted—

“ qualifying citizen ” means a person who is a qualifying Commonwealth citizen
or a citizen of the Republic of Ireland or a relevant citizen of the Union,
within the meaning given in section 79 of the Local Government Act 1972;

.

8

8.1

A person is disqualified for being elected or holding office as the mayor for
the area of a CCA if the person—

8.1.a

holds any paid office or employment (other than the office of mayor or deputy
mayor) appointments or elections to which are or may be made by or on behalf
of the CCA or any of the constituent councils;

8.1.b

is the subject of—

8.1.b.i

a debt relief restrictions order or an interim debt relief restrictions order
under Schedule 4ZB to the Insolvency Act 1986, or

8.1.b.ii

a bankruptcy restrictions order or an interim bankruptcy restrictions order
under Schedule 4A to the Insolvency Act 1986;

8.1.c

has in the five years before being elected, or at any time since being
elected, been convicted in the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands or the Isle
of Man of an offence and been sentenced to a period of imprisonment of three
months or more without the option of a fine;

8.1.d

is disqualified for being elected or for being a member of a constituent
council under Part 3 of the Representation of the People Act 1983
(consequences of corrupt or illegal practices);

8.1.e

is incapable of being elected to or holding—

8.1.e.i

the office of member of the Northern Ireland Assembly having been reported
personally guilty or convicted of a corrupt practice under section 114A of the
Representation of the People Act 1983 (as applied by Schedule 1 to the
Northern Ireland Assembly (Elections) Regulations 2001 ( SI 2001/2599 ))
(undue influence);

8.1.e.ii

the office of member of a district council in Northern Ireland having been
reported personally guilty or convicted of a corrupt practice under paragraph
3 of Schedule 9 to the Electoral Law Act (Northern Ireland) 1962 (undue
influence).

8.2

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) (c) , a person is to be treated as
having been convicted on—

8.2.a

the expiry of the ordinary period allowed for making an appeal or application
with respect to the conviction, or

8.2.b

if an appeal or application is made, the date on which it is finally disposed
of or abandoned or fails because it is not prosecuted.

8.3

Until the coming into force of paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to the Elections Act
2022 (amendment of paragraph 9(1) of Schedule 5B to the Local Democracy,
Economic Development and Construction Act 2009 relating to undue influence),
sub-paragraph (1) has effect as if paragraph (e) were omitted.

9

9.1

A person is disqualified for being elected or holding office as the mayor for
the area of a CCA if the person is subject to—

9.1.a

any relevant notification requirements, or

9.1.b

a relevant order.

9.2

In this paragraph “relevant notification requirements” mean—

9.2.a

the notification requirements of Part 2 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003;

9.2.b

the notification requirements of Part 2 of the Sex Offenders (Jersey) Law
2010;

9.2.c

the notification requirements of Part 2 of the Criminal Justice (Sex Offenders
and Miscellaneous Provisions) (Bailiwick of Guernsey) Law 2013;

9.2.d

the notification requirements of Schedule 1 to the Criminal Justice Act 2001
(an Act of Tynwald: c 4).

9.3

In this paragraph “ relevant order ” means—

9.3.a

a sexual harm prevention order under section 345 of the Sentencing Code;

9.3.b

a sexual harm prevention order under section 103A of the Sexual Offences Act
2003;

9.3.c

a sexual offences prevention order under section 104 of that Act;

9.3.d

a sexual risk order under section 122A of that Act;

9.3.e

a risk of sexual harm order under section 123 of that Act;

9.3.f

a risk of sexual harm order under section 2 of the Protection of Children and
Prevention of Sexual Offences (Scotland) Act 2005;

9.3.g

a sexual risk order under section 27 of the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual Harm
(Scotland) Act 2016;

9.3.h

a restraining order under Article 10 of the Sex Offenders (Jersey) Law 2010;

9.3.i

a child protection order under Article 11 of that Law;

9.3.j

a sexual offences prevention order under section 18 of that Law;

9.3.k

a risk of sexual harm order under section 22 of that Law;

9.3.l

a sexual offences prevention order under section 1 of the Sex Offenders Act
2006 (an Act of Tynwald: c 20);

9.3.m

a risk of sexual harm order under section 5 of that Act.

9.4

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (1) (a) , a person who is subject to any
relevant notification requirements is not to be regarded as disqualified
until—

9.4.a

the expiry of the ordinary period allowed for making an appeal or application
against the conviction, finding, caution, order or certification in respect of
which the person is subject to the relevant notification requirements, or

9.4.b

if such an appeal or application is made, the date on which it is finally
disposed of or abandoned or fails because it is not prosecuted.

9.5

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (1) (b) , a person who is subject to a
relevant order is not to be regarded as disqualified until—

9.5.a

the expiry of the ordinary period allowed for making an appeal against the
relevant order, or

9.5.b

if such an appeal is made, the date on which it is finally disposed of or
abandoned or fails because it is not prosecuted.

9.6

This paragraph does not have the effect of disqualifying a person for being
elected or holding office as the mayor for the area of a CCA by reason of the
person becoming subject to—

9.6.a

any relevant notification requirements, or

9.6.b

a relevant order,

before the day on which this paragraph comes into force.

10

Paragraph  10  of Schedule  3  contains further provision about
disqualification in the case of mayors who exercise PCC functions.

11

The acts of a person elected as a mayor for the area of a CCA who acts in that
office are, despite any disqualification or lack of qualification—

11.a

in respect of being, or being elected as, a mayor, or

11.b

in respect of being, or being elected as, the mayor for that area,

as valid and effectual as if the person had not been so disqualified or as if
the person had been qualified.

##### Power to make further provision

12

12.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision as to—

12.1.a

the conduct of elections for the return of mayors, and

12.1.b

the questioning of elections for the return of mayors and the consequences of
irregularities.

12.2

Regulations under sub-paragraph  (1) (a)  may, in particular, include
provision—

12.2.a

about the registration of electors,

12.2.b

for disregarding alterations in a register of electors,

12.2.c

about the limitation of election expenses (and the creation of criminal
offences in connection with the limitation of such expenses), and

12.2.d

for the combination of polls at elections for the return of mayors and other
elections.

12.3

Regulations under sub-paragraph  (1)  may—

12.3.a

apply or incorporate (with or without modifications) any provision of, or made
under, the Representation of the People Acts or any provision of any other
enactment (whenever passed or made) relating to parliamentary elections or
local government elections,

12.3.b

modify any form contained in, or in regulations or rules made under, the
Representation of the People Acts so far as may be necessary to enable it to
be used both for the original purpose and in relation to elections for the
return of mayors, and

12.3.c

so far as may be necessary in consequence of any provision made by or under
this Part or any regulations under sub-paragraph  (1) , amend any provision of
any enactment (whenever passed or made) relating to the registration of
parliamentary electors or local government electors.

12.4

Before making regulations under sub-paragraph  (1) , the Secretary of State
must consult the Electoral Commission.

12.5

In addition, the power of the Secretary of State to make regulations under
sub-paragraph  (1)  so far as relating to matters mentioned in  sub-paragraph
(2) (c)  is exercisable only on, and in accordance with, a recommendation of
the Electoral Commission, except where the Secretary of State considers that
it is expedient to exercise that power in consequence of changes in the value
of money.

12.6

The requirements in sub-paragraphs  (4)  and  (5)  may be satisfied by things
done before the coming into force of this paragraph.

12.7

No return of a mayor at an election is to be questioned except by an election
petition under the provisions of Part 3 of the Representation of the People
Act 1983 as applied by or incorporated in regulations under sub-paragraph  (1)
.

Mayors for combined county authority Areas: PCC functions

Section  33

##### Introductory

1

1.1

This Schedule applies where regulations are made under section  33 (1)
providing for a mayor to exercise functions of a police and crime
commissioner.

1.2

A duty under this Schedule to make provision by regulations is a duty to make
such provision in regulations made at any time before the first election of a
mayor who, by virtue of regulations under section  33 (1) , is to exercise
functions of a police and crime commissioner.

1.3

In this Schedule references to “the mayor” and the “CCA area” are references
to a mayor or area in relation to which regulations are made under section  33
(1) .

1.4

In this Schedule “ the 2011 Act ” means the Police Reform and Social
Responsibility Act 2011.

##### PCC functions exercisable by the mayor

2

2.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that the mayor may exercise
in the CCA area—

2.1.a

all PCC functions,

2.1.b

all PCC functions other than those specified or described in the regulations,
or

2.1.c

only those PCC functions specified or described in the regulations.

2.2

But regulations under sub-paragraph  (1) (b)  or  (c)  must secure that the
following PCC functions are exercisable by the mayor in relation to the CCA
area—

2.2.a

the functions mentioned in subsections (6) to (8) of section 1 of the 2011 Act
(securing maintenance of efficient and effective police force and holding the
relevant chief constable to account);

2.2.b

the functions under sections 5, 7 and 8 of that Act (issuing etc a police and
crime plan);

2.2.c

the functions under section 38 of that Act (appointing, suspending or removing
a chief constable).

##### Delegation of function

3

3.1

The Secretary of State must by regulations make provision authorising the
mayor—

3.1.a

to appoint a deputy mayor in respect of PCC functions (“deputy mayor for
policing and crime”), and

3.1.b

to arrange for the deputy mayor for policing and crime to exercise any PCC
functions of the mayor.

3.2

Regulations under sub-paragraph  (1)  must include provision authorising the
mayor to arrange for any other person to exercise any PCC functions of the
mayor.

3.3

Regulations under sub-paragraph  (1)  must include provision preventing the
mayor from appointing as deputy mayor for policing and crime—

3.3.a

the person who is appointed as deputy mayor under section  29 ;

3.3.b

a person listed in subsection (6) of section 18 of the 2011 Act;

3.3.c

any other person of a description specified in the regulations.

3.4

Regulations under sub-paragraph  (1)  must include provision preventing the
mayor from arranging for the deputy mayor for policing and crime to exercise—

3.4.a

a PCC function of the mayor of a kind listed in subsection (7)(a), (e) or (f)
of section 18 of the 2011 Act, or

3.4.b

any other PCC function specified or described in the regulations.

3.5

Regulations under sub-paragraph  (1)  must include provision preventing the
mayor from arranging, by virtue of provision under sub-paragraph  (2) , for a
person to exercise—

3.5.a

any function if the person is listed in subsection (6) of section 18 of the
2011 Act;

3.5.b

a function listed in subsection (7) of that section;

3.5.c

any other PCC function specified or described in the regulations.

3.6

Regulations under sub-paragraph  (1)  must include provision authorising the
deputy mayor for policing and crime to arrange for any other person to
exercise any PCC function of the mayor which is exercisable by the deputy
mayor for policing and crime in accordance with provision made under that sub-
paragraph.

3.7

Regulations under sub-paragraph  (1)  must include provision preventing the
deputy mayor for policing and crime from arranging for a person to exercise a
function if—

3.7.a

the person is listed in subsection (6) of section 18 of the 2011 Act, or

3.7.b

the function is a PCC function of the mayor—

3.7.b.i

of a kind listed in subsection (7)(b), (c) or (d) of that section, or

3.7.b.ii

of any other kind specified or described in the regulations.

##### Police and crime panels

4

The Secretary of State must by regulations provide for a panel to be
established in relation to the CCA area with functions, in relation to the
exercise by the mayor of PCC functions, corresponding to those of a police and
crime panel under sections 28 and 29 of the 2011 Act.

5

5.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide for a police and crime panel
to have oversight functions in relation to any general functions of the mayor
that are the subject of arrangements under section  30 (3) (c) (i)  (power to
arrange for general functions to be exercisable by deputy mayor for policing
and crime).

5.2

If it appears to the Secretary of State expedient for the police and crime
panel also to have oversight functions in relation to other general functions
of the mayor that are related to general functions in respect of which
regulations are made under sub-paragraph  (1) , the Secretary of State may by
regulations provide for the panel to have oversight functions in relation to
those other general functions.

5.3

Regulations under this paragraph may disapply, or otherwise modify, the
application of paragraph  1 (3)  of Schedule  1  so far as relating to general
functions of the mayor in respect of which a police and crime panel has
oversight functions.

5.4

In this paragraph—

“ oversight functions ”, in relation to general functions of the mayor, are
functions that are of a corresponding or similar kind to those that a police
and crime panel has in relation to PCC functions of the mayor; “ police and
crime panel ” means a panel established by virtue of regulations under
paragraph  4 .

6

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the payment of
allowances to members of a police and crime panel established by virtue of
regulations under paragraph  4  who are members of a constituent council.

##### Financial matters

7

The Secretary of State must by regulations make provision—

7.a

requiring the mayor to maintain a fund in relation to receipts arising, and
liabilities incurred, in the exercise of PCC functions;

7.b

about the preparation of an annual budget in relation to the exercise of such
functions.

##### Suspension

8

The Secretary of State must by regulations provide for the panel mentioned in
paragraph  4  to have power to suspend the mayor, so far as acting in the
exercise of PCC functions, in circumstances corresponding to those mentioned
in section 30(1) of the 2011 Act in relation to a police and crime
commissioner.

##### Conduct

9

The Secretary of State must by regulations make provision about the matters
mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (c) of section 31(1) of the 2011 Act (taking
references in those paragraphs to “relevant office holders” as references to
the mayor and the deputy mayor for policing and crime).

##### Disqualification

10

10.1

The Secretary of State must by regulations provide for sections 64 to 68 of
the 2011 Act to apply in relation to a person being, or being elected as, the
mayor as they apply in relation to a person being, or being elected as, a
police and crime commissioner.

10.2

Provision under sub-paragraph  (1)  is in addition to paragraphs  7 ,  8  and
9  of Schedule  2 .

##### Policing protocol

11

The Secretary of State must by regulations require the mayor to have regard,
in the exercise of PCC functions, to the policing protocol issued under
section 79 of the 2011 Act.

##### Application of certain enactments

12

12.1

The Secretary of State must by regulations provide for the following
provisions of the Police Act 1996 to apply to the mayor, in the exercise of
PCC functions, as though the mayor were a police and crime commissioner—

12.1.a

sections 24(4) and 98(6) (aid of one police force by another);

12.1.b

sections 22A to 23H (collaboration agreements);

12.1.c

sections 40 to 40B (powers to give directions);

12.1.d

sections 54 and 55 (appointment and functions of His Majesty’s Inspectors of
Constabulary);

12.1.e

section 96A(2) (national and international functions).

12.2

The Secretary of State must by regulations provide for provision similar to
section 41 of the Police Act 1996 (directions as to minimum budget) to have
effect for the purpose of enabling directions to be given to the mayor acting
on behalf of the mayoral CCA in relation to the calculation of the component
of the council tax requirement relating to the mayor’s PCC functions (see
section  41 (4) (a)  above).

##### Supplementary

13

13.1

Subject to the requirements of this Schedule, the Secretary of State may by
regulations make any other provision the Secretary of State thinks appropriate
for the purposes of giving full effect to regulations under section  33 (1) .

13.2

Sub-paragraphs (3) and (4) apply in relation to regulations under—

13.2.a

sub-paragraph  (1) ,

13.2.b

another provision of this Schedule, or

13.2.c

section  33 (1) .

13.3

The regulations may include provision—

13.3.a

that is similar to any police and crime commissioner enactment, or

13.3.b

for a purpose corresponding to a purpose for which any such enactment is made.

13.4

The regulations may provide for the mayor to be treated as a police and crime
commissioner for the purposes of any police and crime commissioner enactment.

13.5

“ Police and crime commissioner enactment ” means—

13.5.a

any enactment that is contained in, or is made under, Part 1 of the 2011 Act,
and

13.5.b

any other enactment that has effect in relation to police and crime
commissioners.

13.6

In sub-paragraph  (5)  “ enactment ” includes an enactment whenever passed or
made.

13.7

Power to make regulations under this paragraph is in addition to (and does not
limit) the power to make regulations under section  53 .

13.8

Subsections  (5)  and  (6)  of section  29 , so far as relating to the
exercise of PCC functions, are subject to any provision contained in
regulations under this Schedule.

13.9

Regulations under this Schedule may relate to—

13.9.a

a particular mayor in respect of whom regulations under section  33 (1)  have
effect, or

13.9.b

all mayors in respect of whom any such regulations have effect.

Combined county authorities: consequential amendments

Section  56

##### Landlord and Tenant Act 1954 (c. 56)

1

In section 69(1) of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1954 (interpretation), in the
definition of “local authority”, after “section 103 of that Act” insert  “, a
combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-
up and Regeneration Act 2023” .

##### Trustee Investments Act 1961 (c. 62)

2

In section 11(4)(a) of the Trustee Investments Act 1961 (local authority
investment schemes), after “section 103 of that Act” insert  “, a combined
county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and
Regeneration Act 2023,” .

##### Local Government (Records) Act 1962 (c. 56)

3

The Local Government (Records) Act 1962 is amended as follows.

4

In section 2(6) (acquisition and deposit of records), after “section 103 of
that Act” insert  “, to a combined county authority established under section
9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023” .

5

In section 8(1) (interpretation), in the definition of “local authority”,
after “section 103 of that Act” insert  “, or a combined county authority
established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act
2023” .

##### Leasehold Reform Act 1967 (c. 88)

6

In section 28(5)(a) of the Leasehold Reform Act 1967 (retention or resumption
of land required for public purposes), after “section 103 of that Act,” insert
“any combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023,” .

##### Transport Act 1968 (c. 73)

7

The Transport Act 1968 is amended as follows.

8

8.1

Section 9 (Areas, Authorities and Executives) is amended as follows.

8.2

In subsection (1)—

8.2.a

in paragraph (a)(i), after “a combined authority area” insert  “or a combined
county authority area” ;

8.2.b

after paragraph (ab) insert—

8.2.b.ac

any reference to a “combined county authority” is to an authority established
under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023 for an
area which is or includes a metropolitan county;

8.2.b.ad

any reference to a “combined county authority area” is to an area for which a
combined county authority is established;

;

8.2.c

in paragraph (b), after sub-paragraph (ia) insert—

8.2.c.iaa

in relation to a combined county authority area, the combined county
authority;

.

8.3

In subsection (2), after “a combined authority area” insert  “, a combined
county authority area” .

8.4

In subsection (3), after “a combined authority area” insert  “, a combined
county authority area” .

8.5

In subsection (5) for “or a combined authority area” substitute  “a combined
authority area or a combined county authority area” .

9

In section 9A (general functions of Authorities and Executives), in each of
subsections (3), (5), (6)(a) and (b), (7) and (8), after “combined authority
area” insert  “, combined county authority area” .

10

10.1

Section 10 (general powers of Executives) is amended as follows.

10.2

In subsection (1), after “a combined authority area” insert  “, a combined
county authority area” .

10.3

In subsection (3), after “a combined authority area” insert  “, a combined
county authority area” .

10.4

In subsection (5), after “a combined authority area” insert  “, a combined
county authority area” .

11

In section 10A(1) (further powers of Executives), for “or combined authority
area” substitute  “, combined authority area or combined county authority
area” .

12

In section 12(1) (borrowing powers of Executive), after “a combined authority
area” insert  “, a combined county authority area” .

13

In section 14(1) (accounts of Executive), after “a combined authority area”
insert  “, a combined county authority area” .

14

14.1

Section 15 (further functions of Authority) is amended as follows.

14.2

In subsection (1), after “a combined authority area” insert  “, a combined
county authority area” .

14.3

In subsection (6), after “a combined authority area” insert  “, a combined
county authority area” .

15

In section 16(1) (annual report by Authority and Executive), after “combined
authority area” insert  “, combined county authority area” .

16

16.1

Section 20 (special duty with respect to railway passengers) is amended as
follows.

16.2

In subsection (1), after “a combined authority area” insert  “, a combined
county authority area” .

16.3

In subsection (2A), after “a combined authority area” insert  “, a combined
county authority area” .

17

17.1

Section 23 (consents of, or directions, by Minister) is amended as follows.

17.2

In subsection (1), after “a combined authority area” insert  “, a combined
county authority area” .

17.3

In subsection (2), after “a combined authority area” insert  “, a combined
county authority area” .

17.4

In subsection (3), after “a combined authority area” insert  “, a combined
county authority area” .

18

In section 56(6) (assistance by Minister or local authority towards
expenditure on public transport), after paragraph (bc) insert—

18.bd

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

19

19.1

Schedule 5 (Passenger Transport Executives) is amended as follows.

19.2

In Part 2, in paragraph 2, after “the combined authority area”, in both places
it occurs, insert  “, the combined county authority area” .

19.3

In Part 3, in paragraph 11, after “a combined authority area”, insert  “, a
combined county authority area” .

##### Local Government Grants (Social Need) Act 1969 (c. 2)

20

In section 1(3) of the Local Government Grants (Social Need) Act 1969
(provision for grants), for “and a combined authority established under
section 103 of that Act” substitute  “, a combined authority established under
section 103 of that Act and a combined county authority established under
section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023” .

##### Employers’ Liability (Compulsory Insurance) Act 1969 (c. 57)

21

In section 3(2)(b) of the Employers’ Liability (Compulsory Insurance) Act 1969
(employers exempted from insurance), after “section 103 of that Act,” insert
“a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023,” .

##### Local Authorities (Goods and Services) Act 1970 (c. 39)

22

In section 1(4) of the Local Authorities (Goods and Services) Act 1970
(provision for grants), in the definition of “local authority”, after “section
103 of that Act,” insert  “any combined county authority established under
section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023,” .

##### Local Government Act 1972 (c. 70)

23

The Local Government Act 1972 is amended as follows.

24

24.1

Section 70 (restriction on promotion of Bills for changing local government
areas, etc) is amended as follows.

24.2

In subsection (1), for “or combined authority” substitute  “, combined
authority or combined county authority” .

24.3

In subsection (3), for “or combined authority” substitute  “, combined
authority or combined county authority” .

25

In section 80(2)(b) (disqualification for election and holding office as
member of local authority), after “combined authority” insert  “, combined
county authority” .

26

In section 85(4) (vacation of office by failure to attend meetings), for “and
a combined authority” substitute  “, a combined authority and a combined
county authority” .

27

In section 86(2) (declaration of vacancy by local authority), for “and a
combined authority” substitute  “, a combined authority and a combined county
authority” .

28

In section 92(7) (proceedings for disqualification)—

28.a

for “and a combined authority” substitute  “, a combined authority and a
combined county authority” , and

28.b

for “or a combined authority” substitute  “, a combined authority or a
combined county authority” .

29

In section 99 (meetings and proceedings of local authorities), after “combined
authorities,” insert  “combined county authorities,” .

30

30.1

Section 100J (application of Part 5A to to new authorities, Common Council,
etc) is amended as follows.

30.2

In subsection (1), after paragraph (bd) insert—

30.2.bda

a combined county authority;

.

30.3

In subsection (4)(a), for “or a combined authority” substitute  “, a combined
authority or a combined county authority” .

31

31.1

Section 101 (arrangements for discharge of functions by local authorities) is
amended as follows.

31.2

In subsection (1E), for ““Mayoral function”” substitute  “In subsection (1D)
“mayoral function”” .

31.3

After subsection (1E) insert—

31.3.1F

A combined county authority may not arrange for the discharge of any functions
under subsection (1) if, or to the extent that, the function is a mayoral
function of a mayor for the area of the authority.

31.3.1G

In subsection  (1F)  “ mayoral function ” has the meaning given by  section 41
(8)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023.

31.4

In subsection (5C), after “combined authority” insert  “or combined county
authority” .

31.5

In subsection (5D)—

31.5.a

the words from “section 107E” to the end become paragraph (a), and

31.5.b

at the end of paragraph (a) insert

, or

31.5.b.b

section  32  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023 (joint exercise of
general functions).

31.6

In subsection (5E), for “has the meaning given in section 107D(2) of that
Act.” substitute

—

31.6.a

in relation to a combined authority, has the meaning given in section 107D(2)
of the Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009;

31.6.b

in relation to a combined county authority, has the meaning given in section
30 (2)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023.

31.7

In subsection (13), after “a combined authority,” insert  “a combined county
authority,” .

32

In section 138C(1) (application of sections 138A and 138B to other
authorities), after paragraph (n) insert—

32.na

a combined county authority;

.

33

In section 142(1B) (provision of information relating to matters affecting
local government), after “a combined authority” insert  “, a combined county
authority” .

34

34.1

Section 146A (joint authorities etc) is amended as follows.

34.2

In subsection (1)—

34.2.a

in the opening words, after “(1ZE)” insert  “, (1ZEA)” , and

34.2.b

after “a combined authority,” insert  “a combined county authority” .

34.3

After subsection (1ZE) insert—

34.3.1ZEA

A combined county authority is not to be treated as a local authority for the
purposes of section 111 (but see section  49  of the Levelling-up and
Regeneration Act 2023).

35

In section 175(3B) (allowances for attending conferences and meetings), after
“a combined authority” insert  “, a combined county authority” .

36

In section 176(3) (payment of expenses), for “and a combined authority”
substitute  “a combined authority and a combined county authority” .

37

In section 223(2) (appearance of local authorities in legal proceedings),
after “a combined authority,” insert  “a combined county authority,” .

38

In section 224(2) (arrangements by principal councils for custody of
documents), for “or combined authority” substitute  “, combined authority or
combined county authority” .

39

In section 225(3) (deposit of documents with proper officer), for “and a
combined authority” substitute  “, a combined authority and a combined county
authority” .

40

In section 228(7A) (inspection of documents), for “or a combined authority”
substitute  “, a combined authority or a combined county authority” .

41

In section 229(8) (photographic copies of documents) after “a combined
authority,” insert  “a combined county authority,” .

42

In section 230(2) (reports and returns), for “and a combined authority”
substitute  “, a combined authority and a combined county authority” .

43

In section 231(4) (service of notice on local authorities), after “a combined
authority,” insert  “a combined county authority,” .

44

In section 232(1A) (public notices), after “a combined authority,” insert  “a
combined county authority,” .

45

In section 233(11) (service of notices by local authorities), after “a
combined authority,” insert  “a combined county authority,” .

46

In section 234(4) (authentication of documents), after “a combined authority,”
insert  “a combined county authority,” .

47

In section 236(1) (procedure for byelaws), for “or a combined authority”
substitute  “, a combined authority or a combined county authority” .

48

In section 236B(1) (revocation of byelaws), after paragraph (e) insert—

48.f

a combined county authority.

49

In section 238 (evidence of byelaws), for “or a combined authority” substitute
“, a combined authority or a combined county authority” .

50

In section 239(4A) (power to promote or oppose bills), for “and a combined
authority” substitute  “, a combined authority and a combined county
authority” .

51

In section 270(1) (interpretation), at the appropriate place insert—

“ combined county authority ” means a combined county authority established
under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

52

In Part 1A of Schedule 12 (meetings and proceedings of joint authorities etc),
in paragraph 6A, for “or a combined authority” substitute  “, a combined
authority or a combined county authority” .

##### Employment Agencies Act 1973 (c. 35)

53

In section 13(7) of the Employment Agencies Act 1973 (interpretation), after
paragraph (fzc) insert—

53.fzd

the exercise by a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)
of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023 of any of its functions;

.

##### Local Government Act 1974 (c. 7)

54

The Local Government Act 1974 is amended as follows.

55

In section 25(1) (authorities subject to investigation), after paragraph (cf)
insert—

55.cg

any combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

56

56.1

Section 26C (referral of complaints by authorities) is amended as follows.

56.2

In subsection (6), after paragraph (f) insert—

56.2.g

in relation to a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)
of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023, a member of a constituent
council of the authority;

.

56.3

After subsection (8) insert—

56.3.9

For the purposes of subsection (6)(g)—

56.3.9.a

a county council is a constituent council of a combined county authority if
the area of the county council, or part of that area, is within the area of
the combined county authority;

56.3.9.b

a district council is a constituent council of a combined county authority if
the area of the district council is within the area of the combined county
authority.

##### Health and Safety at Work etc Act 1974 (c. 37)

57

In section 28(6) of the Health and Safety at Work etc Act 1974 (restrictions
on disclosure of information), after “section 103 of that Act,” insert  “a
combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-
up and Regeneration Act 2023,” .

##### Local Government (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1976 (c. 57)

58

In section 44 of the Local Government (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1976
(interpretation of Part 1), in the definition of “local authority”—

58.a

in paragraph (a), after “section 103 of that Act,” insert  “a combined county
authority established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and
Regeneration Act 2023,” ;

58.b

in paragraph (c), after “section 103 of that Act, insert  “a combined county
authority established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and
Regeneration Act 2023,” .

##### Rent (Agriculture) Act 1976 (c. 80)

59

In section 5(3) of the Rent (Agriculture) Act 1976 (no statutory tenancy where
landlord’s interest belongs to local authority), after paragraph (bbzb)
insert—

59.bbzc

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

##### Rent Act 1977 (c. 42)

60

In section 14(1) of the Rent Act 1977 (landlord’s interest belonging to local
authority etc), after paragraph (cbc) insert—

60.cbd

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

##### Protection from Eviction Act 1977 (c. 43)

61

In section 3A(8) of the Protection from Eviction Act 1977 (excluded tenancies
and licences), after paragraph (ab) insert—

61.ac

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

##### Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980 (c. 65)

62

The Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980 is amended as follows.

63

In section 2(1) (duty of authorities to publish information), after paragraph
(kac) insert—

63.kad

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

64

In section 98(8A) (disposal of land at direction of Secretary of State), after
paragraph (ezb) insert—

64.ezc

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

65

In section 99(4) (directions to dispose of land), after paragraph (dbzb)
insert—

65.dbzc

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

66

In section 100(1)(a) (interpretation and extent of Part 10), for “or a
combined authority established under section 103 of that Act” substitute  “, a
combined authority established under section 103 of that Act or a combined
county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and
Regeneration Act 2023” .

67

In Schedule 16 (bodies to whom Part 10 applies), after paragraph 5BZB insert—

67.5BZBA

A combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023.

##### Public Passenger Vehicles Act 1981 (c. 14)

68

In section 4C(4) of the Public Passenger Vehicles Act 1981 (power of senior
traffic commissioner to give guidance and directions), in paragraph (e), after
“of combined authorities” insert  “established under section 103 of the Local
Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009, of combined county
authorities established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and
Regeneration Act 2023” .

##### Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (c. 67)

69

In section 17(4)(a) of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (local authority
land), in the definition of “local authority”, for “or a combined authority
established under section 103 of that Act” substitute  “, a combined authority
established under section 103 of that Act or a combined county authority
established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act
2023” .

##### Local Government (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1982 (c. 30)

70

The Local Government (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1982 is amended as
follows.

71

In section 33(9) (enforceability by local authorities of covenants relating to
land)—

71.a

in paragraph (a), for “or a combined authority established under section 103
of that Act” substitute  “, a combined authority established under section 103
of that Act or a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)
of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023” ;

71.b

in paragraph (b), for “or combined authority” substitute  “, combined
authority or combined county authority” .

72

In section 41(13) (lost and uncollected property), in the definition of “local
authority”, after paragraph (ezb) insert—

72.ezba

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

##### Stock Transfer Act 1982 (c. 41)

73

In Schedule 1 to the Stock Transfer Act 1982 (specified securities), in
paragraph 7(2)(a), after “section 103 of that Act” insert  “, a combined
county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and
Regeneration Act 2023” .

##### County Courts Act 1984 (c. 28)

74

In section 60(3) of the County Courts Act 1984 (rights of audience), in the
definition of “local authority”, after “section 103 of that Act,” insert  “a
combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-
up and Regeneration Act 2023,” .

##### Local Government Act 1985 (c. 51)

75

The Local Government Act 1985 is amended as follows.

76

In section 72(5) (accounts and audit), after paragraph (c) insert—

76.d

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023.

77

In section 73(2) (financial administration), after paragraph (b) insert—

77.c

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023.

##### Transport Act 1985 (c. 67)

78

The Transport Act 1985 is amended as follows.

79

In section 27A(7)(b) (additional powers where service not operated as
registered), for “or combined authority” substitute  “, combined authority or
combined county authority” .

80

In section 64(1)(a) (consultation with respect to policies), after “combined
authority,” insert  “combined county authority,” .

81

In section 93(8)(b) (travel concession schemes), for “and a combined
authority” substitute  “, a combined authority and a combined county
authority” .

82

In section 106(4) (grants for transport facilities and services), after
paragraph (aa) insert—

82.ab

any combined county authority;

.

83

In section 137 (general interpretation), after subsection (5A) insert—

83.5B

References in this Act to a combined county authority are references to a
combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-
up and Regeneration Act 2023.

##### Housing Act 1985 (c. 68)

84

84.1

Section 4 of the Housing Act 1985 (other descriptions of authority) is amended
as follows.

84.2

In subsection (1)(e), after “combined authority,” insert  “a combined county
authority,” .

84.3

In subsection (2), at the appropriate place insert—

“ combined county authority ” means a combined county authority established
under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

##### Housing Associations Act 1985 (c. 69)

85

In section 106(1) (minor definitions) of the Housing Associations Act 1985, in
the definition of “local authority”—

85.a

for “and a combined authority established under section 103 of that Act”
substitute  “, a combined authority established under section 103 of that Act
and a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023” ;

85.b

after “such a combined authority,” insert  “such a combined county authority,”
.

##### Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 (c. 70)

86

In section 38 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 (minor definitions), in the
definition of “local authority”, after “section 103 of that Act,” insert  “a
combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-
up and Regeneration Act 2023,” .

##### Local Government Act 1986 (c. 10)

87

The Local Government Act 1986 is amended as follows.

88

In section 6(2)(a) (interpretation and application of Part 2), after “a
combined authority established under section 103 of that Act,”, and on a new
line, insert  “a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)
of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023,” .

89

In section 9(1)(a) (interpretation and application of Part 3), after “a
combined authority established under section 103 of the Local Democracy,
Economic Development and Construction Act 2009,”, and on a new line, insert
“a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023,” .

##### Landlord and Tenant Act 1987 (c. 31)

90

In section 58(1)(a) of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1987 (exempt landlords and
resident landlords), for “or a combined authority established under section
103 of that Act” substitute  “, a combined authority established under section
103 of that Act or a combined county authority established under section  9
(1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023” .

##### Local Government Act 1988 (c. 9)

91

In Schedule 2 to the Local Government Act 1988 (public supply or works
contracts: the public authorities), after the entry for a combined authority
established under the Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction
Act 2009, and on a new line, insert  “A combined county authority established
under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023.”

##### Local Government Finance Act 1988 (c. 41)

92

The Local Government Finance Act 1988 is amended as follows.

93

In section 74 (levies), after subsection (14) insert—

93.15

For the purposes of this section—

93.15.a

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023 is to be treated as a levying body with
respect to which regulations may be made under subsection (2), and

93.15.b

the reference in that subsection to the council concerned shall be treated as
a reference to the combined county authority’s constituent councils.

93.16

Regulations under this section by virtue of subsection (15) may be made only
with the consent of—

93.16.a

the constituent councils, and

93.16.b

in the case of regulations in relation to an existing combined county
authority, that authority.

93.17

Regulations under this section by virtue of subsection (15) may not make
provision in relation to expenses of a combined county authority that are
attributable to the exercise of mayoral functions.

93.18

In subsections (15) to (17)—

“ constituent council ” has the meaning given by section  10 (11)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023; “ mayoral function ” has the meaning
given by section  41 (8)  of that Act.

94

In section 88B(9) (special grant: relevant authorities), after paragraph (c)
insert—

94.d

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023.

95

In section 111(2) (financial administration: relevant authorities), after
paragraph (ib) insert—

95.ic

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023,

.

96

In section 143 (orders and regulations), after subsection (4B) insert—

96.4C

The power to make regulations under section 74 above, so far as they are made
in relation to a combined county authority by virtue of subsection (15) of
that section, are to be exercisable by statutory instrument, and no such
regulations are to be made unless a draft of them has been laid before and
approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

##### Housing Act 1988 (c. 50)

97

The Housing Act 1988 is amended as follows.

98

In section 74(8) (transfer of land and other property to housing action
trusts), after paragraph (fc) insert—

98.fd

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

99

In Schedule 1 (tenancies which cannot be assured tenancies), in paragraph
12(2), after paragraph (fb) (and before the “and” at the end of that
paragraph) insert—

99.fc

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

##### Road Traffic Act 1988 (c. 52)

100

In section 144(2)(a)(i) of the Road Traffic Act 1988 (exceptions from
requirement of third-party insurance or security), for “or a combined
authority established under section 103 of that Act” substitute  “, a combined
authority established under section 103 of that Act or a combined county
authority established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and
Regeneration Act 2023” .

##### Local Government and Housing Act 1989 (c. 42)

101

The Local Government and Housing Act 1989 is amended as follows.

102

In section 21(1) (interpretation of Part 1), after paragraph (jb) insert—

102.jba

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

103

In section 152(2) (interpretation), after paragraph (izb) insert—

103.izc

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

104

In section 157(6) (periodic payments of grants)—

104.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (j), and

104.b

after paragraph (k) insert—

104.b.l

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

105

105.1

Schedule 1 (political balance on local authority committees etc) is amended as
follows.

105.2

In paragraph 2(1), for “(jb)” substitute  “(jba)” .

105.3

In paragraph 4(1), in paragraph (a) of the definition of “relevant authority”,
for “(jb)” substitute  “(jba)” .

##### Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (c. 8)

106

The TCPA 1990 is amended as follows.

107

In section 252(12) (procedure for making orders), in the definition of “local
authority”, after “section 103 of that Act,” insert  “a combined county
authority established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and
Regeneration Act 2023,” .

108

In Schedule 14 (procedure for footpaths and bridleways orders), in paragraph
1(3), in the definition of “council”, after “section 103 of that Act” insert
“, a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023” .

##### Further and Higher Education Act 1992 (c. 13)

109

In section 54(1)(e)(ii) of the Further and Higher Education Act 1992 (duty to
give information), for “or a combined authority” substitute  “, a combined
authority established under section 103 of the Local Democracy, Economic
Development and Construction Act 2009 or a combined county authority
established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act
2023” .

##### Local Government Finance Act 1992 (c. 14)

110

The Local Government Finance Act 1992 is amended as follows.

111

In section 39(1) (major precepting authorities), after paragraph (ab) insert—

111.ac

a mayoral CCA, as defined by section  27 (8)  of the Levelling-up and
Regeneration Act 2023 (mayoral combined county authorities);

.

112

In section 40 (issue of precepts by major precepting authority), after
subsection (11) insert—

112.12

Where the precepting authority is a mayoral CCA—

112.12.a

a precept may be issued under this section only in relation to expenditure
incurred by the mayor for the authority’s area in, or in connection with, the
exercise of mayoral functions (as defined by section  41 (8)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023), and

112.12.b

the issuing and calculation of a precept under this Chapter is subject to any
provision made in regulations under that section.

##### Local Government (Overseas Assistance) Act 1993 (c. 25)

113

In section 1(10) of the Local Government (Overseas Assistance) Act 1993 (power
to provide advice and assistance), after paragraph (dzb) insert—

113.dzc

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

##### Railways Act 1993 (c. 43)

114

The Railways Act 1993 is amended as follows.

115

In section 25(1) (public sector operators not to be franchisees)—

115.a

after paragraph (ca) insert—

115.a.cb

any combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

;

115.b

in paragraph (d), for “or a combined authority” substitute  “, a combined
authority or a combined county authority” .

116

In section 149(5) (service of documents), in the definition of “local
authority”, for “and a combined authority established under section 103 of the
Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009” substitute
“, a combined authority established under section 103 of the Local Democracy,
Economic Development and Construction Act 2009 and a combined county authority
established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act
2023” .

##### Deregulation and Contracting Out Act 1994 (c. 40)

117

In section 79A of the Deregulation and Contracting Out Act 1994 (meaning of
“local authority”: England), after paragraph (mb) insert—

117.mc

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

##### Environment Act 1995 (c. 25)

118

After section 86B of the Environment Act 1995 insert—

######### Role of combined county authorities in relation to action plans

118.86C

118.86C.1

Where a local authority in the area of a combined county authority intends to
prepare an action plan it must notify the combined county authority.

118.86C.2

Where a combined county authority has been given a notification under
subsection (1) by a local authority, the combined county authority must,
before the end of the relevant period, provide the local authority with
proposals for particular measures the combined county authority will take to
contribute to the achievement, and maintenance, of air quality standards and
objectives in the area to which the plan relates.

118.86C.3

Where a combined county authority provides proposals under subsection (2), the
combined county authority must—

118.86C.3.a

in those proposals, specify a date for each particular measure by which it
will be carried out, and

118.86C.3.b

as far as is reasonably practicable, carry out those measures by those dates.

118.86C.4

An action plan prepared by a local authority in the area of a combined county
authority must set out any proposals provided to it under subsection (2)
(including the dates specified by virtue of subsection (3)(a)).

118.86C.5

In this section “ combined county authority ” means a combined county
authority established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and
Regeneration Act 2023.

##### Housing Grants, Construction and Regeneration Act 1996 (c. 53)

119

In section 3(2) of the Housing Grants, Construction and Regeneration Act 1996
(ineligible applicants), after paragraph (jc) insert—

119.jd

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

##### Crime and Disorder Act 1998 (c. 37)

120

In section 17(2) of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 (duty to consider crime
and disorder implications), after “a combined authority established under
section 103 of the Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act
2009;”, and on a new line, insert  “a combined county authority established
under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;” .

##### Local Government Act 1999 (c. 27)

121

In section 1(1) of the Local Government Act 1999 (best value authorities),
after paragraph (hc) insert—

121.hd

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

##### Greater London Authority Act 1999 (c. 29)

122

In section 211(1) of the GLAA 1999 (public sector operators)—

122.a

after paragraph (ca) insert—

122.a.cb

any combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

, and

122.b

in paragraph (d), for “or combined authority” substitute  “, combined
authority or combined county authority” .

##### Freedom of Information Act 2000 (c. 36)

123

In Schedule 1 to the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (public authorities),
after paragraph 19B insert—

123.19C

A combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023.

##### Transport Act 2000 (c. 38)

124

The Transport Act 2000 is amended as follows.

125

In section 108(4) (local transport plans), after paragraph (ca) (but before
the “or” at the end of that paragraph) insert—

125.cb

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023,

.

126

126.1

Section 109 (further provision about local transport plans in England) is
amended as follows.

126.2

In subsection (2A), in the opening words, for “or a combined authority”
substitute  “, a combined authority or a combined county authority” .

126.3

In subsection (2B)—

126.3.a

in the opening words, for “or a combined authority” substitute  “, a combined
authority or a combined county authority” ;

126.3.b

in paragraph (a), after “combined authority” insert  “or combined county
authority” ;

126.3.c

in paragraph (c), after “combined authority” insert  “or combined county
authority” .

127

127.1

Section 113 (role of metropolitan district councils) is amended as follows.

127.2

In subsection (2), after “a combined authority” insert  “or a combined county
authority” .

127.3

in subsection (2A), in each of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c), after “combined
authority” insert  “or combined county authority” .

128

In section 123A(4) (franchising schemes)—

128.a

after paragraph (a) insert—

128.a.aa

a mayoral CCA;

;

128.b

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (e);

128.c

at the end of paragraph (f) insert

, or

128.c.g

a combined county authority which is not a mayoral CCA.

;

128.d

in the words after paragraph (g), for “(f)” substitute  “(g)” .

129

In section 123C(2) (consent of the Secretary of State and notice)—

129.a

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (a);

129.b

at the end of paragraph (b) insert

,

129.b.c

the area of a mayoral CCA, or

129.b.d

the combined area of two or more mayoral CCAs.

130

In section 123G (response to consultation), after subsection (4) insert—

130.5

If a franchising authority are a mayoral CCA, the function of deciding whether
to make a proposed franchising scheme is a function of the combined county
authority exercisable only by the mayor acting on behalf of the combined
county authority (including in a case where the decision is to make a scheme
jointly with one or more other franchising authorities).

131

In section 123M (variation of scheme), after subsection (6) insert—

131.6A

If a franchising authority are a mayoral CCA, the function of deciding whether
to make a proposed variation is a function of the combined county authority
exercisable only by the mayor acting on behalf of the combined county
authority (including in a case where the decision is to act jointly to vary a
scheme).

132

In section 123N (revocation of scheme), after subsection (7) insert—

132.7A

If a franchising authority are a mayoral CCA, the function of deciding whether
to make a proposed revocation is a function of the combined county authority
exercisable only by the mayor acting on behalf of the combined county
authority (including in a case where the decision is to act jointly to revoke
a scheme).

133

133.1

Section 157 (grants to Integrated Transport Authorities and combined
authorities) is amended as follows.

133.2

In the heading, for “and combined authorities” substitute  “, combined
authorities and combined county authorities” .

133.3

After subsection (1A) insert—

133.3.1B

The Secretary of State may, with the approval of the Treasury, make grants to
a combined county authority for the purpose of enabling the authority to carry
out any of their functions.

134

134.1

Section 162 (interpretation of Part 2) is amended as follows.

134.2

In subsection (1), at the appropriate place insert—

“ mayoral CCA ” has the meaning given by section  27 (8)  of the Levelling-up
and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

134.3

After subsection (5A) insert—

134.3.5B

In this Part “ combined county authority ” means a combined county authority
established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act
2023.

135

135.1

Section 163 (road user charging schemes: preliminary) is amended as follows.

135.2

In each of subsections (3)(bb), (3)(cc) and (4A), for “or combined authority”
substitute  “, combined authority or combined county authority” .

135.3

After subsection (5A) insert—

135.3.5B

In this Part “ combined county authority ” means a combined county authority
established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act
2023.

136

136.1

Section 164 (local charging schemes) is amended as follows.

136.2

In subsection (2), for “or the area of a combined authority” substitute  “,
the area of a combined authority or the area of a combined county authority” .

136.3

In subsection (3)—

136.3.a

in the opening words, for “or the area of a combined authority” substitute  “,
the area of a combined authority or the area of a combined county authority” ;

136.3.b

in paragraph (b), after “combined authority” insert  “or combined county
authority” .

137

137.1

Section 165 (joint local charging schemes) is amended as follows.

137.2

In subsection (2), for “or the area of a combined authority” substitute  “,
the area of a combined authority or the area of a combined county authority” .

137.3

In subsection (3)—

137.3.a

in the opening words, for “or the area of a combined authority” substitute  “,
the area of a combined authority or the area of a combined county authority” ;

137.3.b

in paragraph (b), after “combined authority” insert  “or combined county
authority” .

138

In section 165A(1)(b) (joint local-ITA charging schemes), after “combined
authority” insert  “or combined county authority” .

139

139.1

Section 166 (joint local-London charging schemes) is amended as follows.

139.2

In subsection (2), for “or the area of a combined authority” substitute  “,
the area of a combined authority or the area of a combined county authority” .

139.3

In subsection (3)—

139.3.a

in the opening words, for “or the area of a combined authority” substitute  “,
the area of a combined authority or the area of a combined county authority” ;

139.3.b

in paragraph (b), after “combined authority” insert  “or combined county
authority” .

140

140.1

Section 166A (joint ITA-London charging schemes) is amended as follows.

140.2

In subsection (1)(b), after “combined authority” insert  “or combined county
authority” .

140.3

In subsection (3)(b), for “or combined authority” substitute  “, combined
authority or combined county authority” .

141

In section 167(2)(b) (trunk road charging schemes), after “a combined
authority” insert  “, a combined county authority” .

142

In section 168(2) (charging schemes to be made by order)—

142.a

after “a combined authority” insert  “, a combined county authority” ;

142.b

for “or the combined authority” substitute  “, the combined authority or the
combined county authority” .

143

143.1

Section 170 (charging schemes: consultation and inquiries) is amended as
follows.

143.2

In subsection (1A)(b), for “or a combined authority” substitute  “, a combined
authority or a combined county authority” .

143.3

In subsection (7)(a), for “or combined authority” substitute  “, combined
authority or combined county authority” .

144

In section 177A(1) (power to require information), for “or combined authority”
substitute  “, combined authority or combined county authority” .

145

In section 193(1) (guidance), after “combined authorities” insert  “, combined
county authorities” .

146

In section 194 (information), in each of subsections (1), (2) and (6), for “or
combined authority” substitute  “, combined authority or combined county
authority” .

147

In section 198(1) (interpretation of Part 3), at the appropriate place insert—

“ combined county authority ” has the meaning given by section 163 (5B);

.

148

148.1

Schedule 12 (road user charging and workplace parking levy: financial
provisions) is amended as follows.

148.2

In each of paragraphs 2(4), 3(2) and 7(5)(c), for “or combined authority”
substitute  “, combined authority or combined county authority” .

148.3

In paragraph 8(3)(aa), for “and combined authorities” substitute  “, combined
authorities and combined county authorities” .

148.4

In paragraph 8(4)(aa), for “or combined authority” substitute  “, combined
authority or combined county authority” .

148.5

In paragraph 11A—

148.5.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for “or combined authority’s” substitute  “, combined
authority’s or combined county authority’s” ;

148.5.b

in sub-paragraph (4), after “combined authority” insert  “or combined county
authority” .

148.6

In each of paragraphs 11B(1) and 11C(1) and (3), for “or a combined authority”
substitute  “, a combined authority or a combined county authority” .

##### Local Government Act 2003 (c. 26)

149

The Local Government Act 2003 is amended as follows.

150

150.1

Section 23 (meaning of “ local authority ” for the purposes of Part 1) is
amended as follows.

150.2

After subsection (8) insert—

150.2.8A

This Part applies in relation to a combined county authority (a “CCA”)
established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act
2023 as it applies in relation to a local authority, except that section 1
confers power on a CCA to borrow money in relation only to functions of the
CCA that are specified for the purposes of this subsection in regulations made
by the Secretary of State.

150.2.8B

A function of a CCA may be specified in regulations under subsection  (8A)
only with the consent of—

150.2.8B.a

each county council for an area within the CCA’s area or proposed area,

150.2.8B.b

each unitary district council for an area within the CCA’s area or proposed
area, and

150.2.8B.c

in the case of regulations in relation to an existing CCA, the CCA.

In this subsection “ unitary district council ” means a district council whose
area does not form part of the area of a county council.

150.2.8C

The reference in subsection  (8A)  to functions of the authority includes, in
the case of a mayoral CCA, mayoral functions.

150.2.8D

In subsection  (8C) —

“ mayoral CCA ” has the meaning given by section  27 (8)  of the Levelling-up
and Regeneration Act 2023; “ mayoral functions ” has the meaning given by
section  41 (8)  of that Act.

150.3

In subsection (10), after “(5)” insert  “or  (8A) ” .

151

In section 33(1) (local authorities for the purposes of Chapter 1 of Part 2),
after paragraph (jc) insert—

151.jd

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

152

In section 93(7) (power to charge for discretionary services: prohibitions to
be disregarded)—

152.a

in paragraph (d), for “and combined authorities” substitute  “, combined
authorities and combined county authorities” , and

152.b

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (f), and

152.c

at the end of paragraph (g) insert

, and

152.c.h

section  50 (4)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023 (combined
county authorities).

##### Courts Act 2003 (c. 39)

153

In section 41(6) of the Courts Act 2003 (disqualification of lay justices who
are members of local authorities), after paragraph (eb) insert—

153.ec

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023,

.

##### Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 (c. 5)

154

The PCPA 2004 is amended as follows.

155

In section 27A (default powers), in the heading and in the section, after
“combined authority” insert  “, combined county authority” .

156

156.1

Schedule A1 (default powers exercisable by Mayor of London, combined authority
or county council) is amended as follows.

156.2

In the heading, after “combined authority” insert  “, combined county
authority” .

156.3

After paragraph 7 insert—

########### Default powers exercisable by combined county authority

156.3.7ZA

In this Schedule—

“ combined county authority ” means a combined county authority established
under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023; “
constituent planning authority ” in relation to a combined county authority,
means— a county council, metropolitan district council or non-metropolitan
district council which is the local planning authority for an area within the
area of the combined county authority, or a joint committee established under
section 29 whose area is within, or the same as, the area of the combined
county authority.

156.3.7ZB

If the Secretary of State—

156.3.7ZB.a

thinks that a constituent planning authority are failing or omitting to do
anything it is necessary for them to do in connection with the preparation,
revision or adoption of a development plan document, and

156.3.7ZB.b

invites the combined county authority to prepare or revise the document,

the combined county authority may prepare or revise (as the case may be) the
development plan document.

156.3.7ZC

156.3.7ZC.1

This paragraph applies where a development plan document is prepared or
revised by a combined county authority under paragraph  7ZB .

156.3.7ZC.2

The combined county authority must hold an independent examination.

156.3.7ZC.3

The combined county authority—

156.3.7ZC.3.a

must publish the recommendations and reasons of the person appointed to hold
the examination, and

156.3.7ZC.3.b

may also give directions to the constituent planning authority in relation to
publication of those recommendations and reasons.

156.3.7ZC.4

The combined county authority may—

156.3.7ZC.4.a

approve the document, or approve it subject to specified modifications, as a
local development document, or

156.3.7ZC.4.b

direct the constituent planning authority to consider adopting the document by
resolution of the authority as a local development document.

156.3.7ZD

156.3.7ZD.1

Subsections (4) to (7C) of section 20 apply to an examination held under
paragraph  7ZC (2) —

156.3.7ZD.1.a

with the reference to the local planning authority in subsection (7C) of that
section being read as a reference to the combined county authority, and

156.3.7ZD.1.b

with the omission of subsections (5)(c), (7)(b)(ii) and (7B)(b).

156.3.7ZD.2

The combined county authority must give reasons for anything they do in
pursuance of paragraph  7ZB  or  7ZC (4) .

156.3.7ZD.3

The constituent planning authority must reimburse the combined county
authority—

156.3.7ZD.3.a

for any expenditure that the combined county authority incur in connection
with anything which is done by them under paragraph 7ZB and which the
constituent planning authority failed or omitted to do as mentioned in that
paragraph;

156.3.7ZD.3.b

for any expenditure that the combined county authority incur in connection
with anything which is done by them under paragraph  7ZC (2) .

156.3.7ZD.4

In the case of a joint local development document or a joint development plan
document, the combined county authority may apportion liability for the
expenditure on such basis as the authority considers just between the
authorities for whom the document has been prepared.

156.4

In paragraph 8—

156.4.a

in sub-paragraph (1), after paragraph (b) (but before the “or” at the end of
that paragraph) insert—

156.4.a.ba

under paragraph 7ZB by a combined county authority,

;

156.4.b

in sub-paragraph (2)(a)—

156.4.b.i

after “6(4)(a)” insert  “, 7ZC(4)(a)” ;

156.4.b.ii

after “the combined authority” insert  “, the combined county authority” ;

156.4.c

in sub-paragraph (3)(a), after “the combined authority” insert  “, the
combined county authority” ;

156.4.d

in sub-paragraph (5), after “6(4)(a)” insert  “, 7ZC(4)(a)” ;

156.4.e

in sub-paragraph (7)—

156.4.e.i

in paragraph (b), after “6(4)(a)” insert  “, 7ZC(4)(a)” ;

156.4.e.ii

in the words after paragraph (b), after “the combined authority” insert  “,
the combined county authority” .

156.5

In paragraph 9(8), after “the combined authority” insert  “, the combined
county authority” .

156.6

In paragraph 12, after “the combined authority” insert  “, the combined county
authority” .

156.7

In paragraph 13(1), after “a combined authority” insert  “, a combined county
authority” .

##### Fire and Rescue Services Act 2004 (c. 21)

157

In section 1 of the Fire and Rescue Services Act 2004 (fire and rescue
authorities), for subsection (5) substitute—

157.5

This section is also subject to—

157.5.a

an order under Part 6 of the Local Democracy, Economic Development and
Construction Act 2009 which transfers the functions of a fire and rescue
authority to a combined authority established under section 103 of that Act;

157.5.b

an order under Chapter 1 of Part 2 of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act
2023 which transfers the functions of a fire and rescue authority to a
combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of that Act.

##### Children Act 2004 (c. 31)

158

In section 50 of the Children Act 2004 (intervention - England), after
subsection (7) insert—

158.8

If any functions of a local authority in England which are specified in
subsection (2) are exercisable by a combined county authority by virtue of
section  18  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023—

158.8.a

a reference in this section to a local authority includes a reference to the
combined county authority, and

158.8.b

a reference in this section to functions specified in subsection (2) is, in
relation to the combined county authority, to be read as a reference to those
functions so far as exercisable by the combined county authority.

##### Railways Act 2005 (c. 14)

159

In section 33(2) of the Railways Act 2005 (closure requirements), after
paragraph (da) insert—

159.db

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

##### Childcare Act 2006 (c. 21)

160

In section 15 of the Childcare Act 2006 (powers of Secretary of State to
secure proper performance), after subsection (6A) insert—

160.6B

If any functions of an English local authority under this Part are exercisable
by a combined county authority by virtue of section  18  of the Levelling-up
and Regeneration Act 2023—

160.6B.a

a reference in any of subsections (3) to (6) to an English local authority
includes a reference to the combined county authority, and

160.6B.b

a reference in those subsections to functions under this Part is, in relation
to the combined county authority, to be read as a reference to those functions
so far as exercisable by the combined county authority.

##### Education and Inspections Act 2006 (c. 40)

161

161.1

Section 123 of the Education and Inspections Act 2006 (education and training
to which Chapter 3 of Part 8 applies) is amended as follows.

161.2

In subsection (1), after paragraph (ea) insert—

161.2.eb

further education for persons aged 19 or over which is wholly or partly funded
by a combined county authority;

.

161.3

For subsection (5), substitute—

161.3.5

In this section—

“ combined authority ” means a combined authority established under section
103 of the Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009; “
combined county authority ” means a combined county authority established
under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023.

##### National Health Service Act 2006 (c. 41)

162

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

163

In section 7A(2) (exercise of Secretary of State’s public health functions),
after paragraph (d) (but before the “or” at the end of that paragraph) insert—

163.da

a combined county authority,

.

164

In section 12ZB(7) (procurement regulations), in the definition of “relevant
authority”, after paragraph (a) insert—

164.aa

a combined county authority;

.

165

In section 13UA(2) (guidance about joint appointments)—

165.a

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (b), and

165.b

at the end of paragraph (c) insert

, or

165.b.d

one or more relevant NHS body and one or more combined county authority.

166

In section 65Z5(1) (joint working and delegation arrangements), after
paragraph (c) insert—

166.d

a combined county authority.

167

In section 65Z6(1) (joint committees and pooled funds), after paragraph (c)
insert—

167.d

a combined county authority.

168

In section 75 (arrangements between NHS bodies and local authorities), after
subsection (7F) insert—

168.7G

For the purposes of this section, a combined county authority that exercises a
prescribed function within subsection (1)(a) of an NHS body under voluntary
arrangements is to be treated as an NHS body.

168.7H

“ Voluntary arrangements ” means arrangements made with the combined county
authority under—

168.7H.a

section 7A (exercise of Secretary of State’s public health functions), or

168.7H.b

section 65Z5 (joint working and delegation arrangements).

168.7I

Regulations under this section, so far as made before or in the same Session
as that in which the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023 is passed, apply
to a combined county authority that is treated as an NHS body by virtue of
subsection  (7G)  as if it were a prescribed NHS body for the purposes of
those regulations.

168.7J

But a combined county authority to which regulations under this section apply
by virtue of subsection  (7I)  may enter into prescribed arrangements in
relation to the exercise only of functions within subsection (1)(a) that are
exercisable by the authority under voluntary arrangements.

168.7K

Regulations under this section may provide for the regulations to apply in
relation to a combined county authority subject to any prescribed limitations
or conditions.

168.7L

Nothing in subsection  (7J)  prevents a combined county authority from being a
party to arrangements made by virtue of this section in relation to any
prescribed functions of an NHS body that are exercisable by the authority as a
result of regulations under section  19  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration
Act 2023 (public authority functions exercisable by combined county
authorities).

169

In section 275(1) (interpretation), at the appropriate place insert—

“ combined county authority ” means a combined county authority established
under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

170

In section 276 (index of defined expressions), at the appropriate place
insert—

combined county authority section 275(1)

.

##### Concessionary Bus Travel Act 2007 (c. 13)

171

In section 9(6)(b) of the Concessionary Bus Travel Act 2007 (variation of
reimbursement etc), for “or combined authority” substitute  “, combined
authority or combined county authority” .

##### Local Government and Public Involvement in Health Act 2007 (c. 28)

172

The Local Government and Public Involvement in Health Act 2007 is amended as
follows.

173

In section 23(1) (definitions for the purposes of Chapter 1 of Part 1), in the
definition of “public body”, after paragraph (g) insert—

173.h

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023.

174

In section 104(2) (application of Chapter 1 of Part 5: partner authorities),
after paragraph (ib) insert—

174.ic

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

##### Local Transport Act 2008 (c. 26)

175

The Local Transport Act 2008 is amended as follows.

176

After section 89A insert—

######### Transfer of functions of combined county authority

176.89B

176.89B.1

The Secretary of State may by order transfer functions of a combined county
authority established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and
Regeneration Act 2023 to an ITA.

176.89B.2

An order under this section may only be made in relation to functions that—

176.89B.2.a

relate to transport, and

176.89B.2.b

are exercisable by the combined county authority in relation to an area that
becomes, or becomes part of, the ITA’s integrated transport area by virtue of
an order under this Part.

177

177.1

Section 90 (changing the boundaries of an integrated transport area) is
amended as follows.

177.2

In subsection (5)—

177.2.a

the words from “a combined authority” to the end of the subsection become
paragraph (a), and

177.2.b

at the end of that paragraph insert

, or

177.2.b.b

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023.

177.3

In subsection (6)—

177.3.a

the words from “the area of” to the end of the subsection become paragraph
(a),

177.3.b

in that paragraph, for “that Act” substitute  “the Local Democracy, Economic
Development and Construction Act 2009” , and

177.3.c

at the end of that paragraph insert

, or

177.3.c.b

the area of a combined county authority by virtue of regulations under section
9 (1)  or  25 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023.

178

178.1

Section 91 (dissolution of an integrated transport area) is amended as
follows.

178.2

In subsection (4)—

178.2.a

the words from “a combined authority” to the end of the subsection become
paragraph (a), and

178.2.b

at the end of that paragraph insert

, or

178.2.b.b

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023.

178.3

In subsection (5)—

178.3.a

the words from “the area or part of the area” to the end of the subsection
become paragraph (a),

178.3.b

in that paragraph, for “that Act” substitute  “the Local Democracy, Economic
Development and Construction Act 2009” , and

178.3.c

at the end of that paragraph insert

, or

178.3.c.b

the area or part of the area of a combined county authority by virtue of
regulations under section  9 (1)  or  25 (1)  of the Levelling-up and
Regeneration Act 2023.

179

179.1

Section 102A (application of Chapter to combined authorities) is amended as
follows.

179.2

In the heading, after “combined authorities” insert  “and combined county
authorities” .

179.3

After subsection (2) insert—

179.3.3

This Chapter applies to a combined county authority established under section
9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023 as it applies to an ITA.

179.3.4

In the application of this Chapter to a combined county authority, references
to an integrated transport area are to the combined county authority’s area.

179.3.5

In the application of this Chapter to a combined county authority, the
reference in section 99(6)(b) to an executive body established by virtue of
section 79(1)(a) or 84(2)(d) is to an executive body established by virtue of
section  10 (2) (c)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023.

180

180.1

Section 102E (power to establish STBs) is amended as follows.

180.2

In subsection (5), after paragraph (a) insert—

180.2.aa

a combined county authority;

.

180.3

In subsection (6), after paragraph (a) (but before the “or” at the end of that
paragraph) insert—

180.3.aa

the area of a combined county authority,

.

181

In section 102F(7) (requirements in connection with regulations under section
102E), after paragraph (a) insert—

181.aa

a combined county authority;

.

182

In section 102G(10) (constitution of STBs), after paragraph (a) insert—

182.aa

in the case of a combined county authority, are the mayor for the area of the
combined county authority (if there is one) and those members of the authority
who are appointed from among the elected members of the authority’s
constituent councils (see section  10 (4) (b)  of the Levelling-up and
Regeneration Act 2023);

.

183

In section 102I(7) (transport strategy of an STB), after paragraph (b) insert—

183.ba

a combined county authority;

.

184

In section 102J(7) (exercise of local transport functions), after paragraph
(a) insert—

184.aa

a combined county authority;

.

185

In section 102U, at the appropriate place insert—

“ combined county authority ” means a body established as a combined county
authority under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

##### Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009 (c. 20)

186

The Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009 is amended
as follows.

187

In section 35(2) (mutual insurance: supplementary), after paragraph (r)
insert—

187.s

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023.

188

In section 88(5) (areas of economic prosperity boards)—

188.a

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (a), and

188.b

at the end of paragraph (b) insert

, or

188.b.c

the area of a combined county authority.

189

In section 103(5) (areas of combined authorities) at the end of paragraph (a)
insert—

189.aa

the area of a combined county authority,

.

190

190.1

Section 106 (changes to boundaries of a combined authority’s area) is amended
as follows.

190.2

In subsection (6), after “an ITA” insert  “or a combined county authority” .

190.3

In subsection (7)—

190.3.a

the words from “the integrated transport area” to the end of the subsection
become paragraph (a), and

190.3.b

at the end of that paragraph insert

, or

190.3.b.b

the area of a combined county authority by virtue of regulations under section
9 (1)  or  25 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023.

191

191.1

Section 107 (dissolution of a combined authority’s area) is amended as
follows.

191.2

In subsection (6), after “an ITA” insert  “or a combined county authority” .

191.3

In subsection (7)—

191.3.a

the words from “the integrated transport area” to the end of the subsection
become paragraph (a), and

191.3.b

at the end of that paragraph insert

, or

191.3.b.b

the area or part of the area of a combined county authority by virtue of
regulations under section  9 (1)  or  25 (1)  of the Levelling-up and
Regeneration Act 2023.

192

In section 118(5) (guidance), after paragraph (e) insert—

192.f

a combined county authority.

193

In section 120 (interpretation of Part 6), at the appropriate place insert—

“ combined county authority ” means a combined county authority established
under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

##### Apprenticeships, Skills, Children and Learning Act 2009 (c. 22)

194

The Apprenticeships, Skills, Children and Learning Act 2009 is amended as
follows.

195

195.1

Section 100 (provision of financial resources) is amended as follows.

195.2

After subsection (1AA) insert—

195.2.1AB

The Secretary of State may secure the provision of financial resources under
this subsection (whether or not the resources could be secured under
subsection (1)) to any of the persons mentioned in subsection (1) in respect
of functions under this Part that are exercisable by a combined county
authority by virtue of regulations made under section  19 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023.

195.3

In subsection (5), at the appropriate place insert—

“ combined county authority ” means a combined county authority established
under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

196

196.1

Section 122 (sharing of information for education and training purposes) is
amended as follows.

196.2

In subsection (3), after paragraph (fb) insert—

196.2.fc

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

196.2.fd

a person providing services to a combined county authority;

.

196.3

In subsection (5)—

196.3.a

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (c), and

196.3.b

at the end of paragraph (d) insert

, or

196.3.b.e

any function of a combined authority under Part 4 that is exercisable by it by
virtue of regulations made under section  19 (1)  of the Levelling-up and
Regeneration Act 2023.

##### Equality Act 2010 (c. 15)

197

In Part 1 of Schedule 19 to the Equality Act 2010, under the heading “local
government”, after the entry for a combined authority insert—

A combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023.

##### Localism Act 2011 (c. 20)

198

In section 27(6) of the Localism Act 2011 (duty to promote and maintain high
standards of conduct), after paragraph (n) insert—

198.na

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023.

##### Local Audit and Accountability Act 2014 (c. 2)

199

The Local Audit and Accountability Act 2014 is amended as follows.

200

In section 40(6) (access to local government meetings and documents), after
paragraph (ja) insert—

200.jb

a combined county authority,

.

201

In section 44(1) (interpretation of Act), at the appropriate place insert—

“ combined county authority ” means a combined county authority established
under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

202

In Schedule 2, after paragraph 28 insert—

202.28ZA

A combined county authority.

##### Cities and Local Government Devolution Act 2016 (c. 1)

203

The Cities and Local Government Devolution Act 2016 is amended as follows.

204

204.1

Section 1 (devolution: annual report) is amended as follows.

204.2

In subsection (1), after “this Act” insert  “or Chapter 1 of Part 2 of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023” .

204.3

In subsection (2)—

204.3.a

in paragraph (c), after “a combined authority” insert  “or a combined county
authority” ;

204.3.b

in paragraph (e), after “combined authorities” insert  “, combined county
authorities” .

204.4

In subsection (4), after the definition of “combined authority” insert—

“ combined county authority ” means a combined county authority established
under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

205

205.1

Section 18 (devolving health service functions) is amended as follows.

205.2

In subsection (1)—

205.2.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for the words from “or an order” to “(“ the
2009 Act ”)” substitute  “, an order under section 105A of the Local
Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009 (transfer of public
authority functions to combined authorities) (“ the 2009 Act ”) or regulations
under section  19 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023 (transfer
of public authority functions to combined authorities) (“ the 2022 Act ”)” ,
and

205.2.b

in paragraph (c), for “or a combined authority” substitute  “, a combined
authority or a combined county authority” .

205.3

In subsection (2), in the words after paragraph (h), for “or an order under
section 105A of the 2009 Act” substitute  “, an order under section 105A of
the 2009 Act or regulations under section  19 (1)  of the 2022 Act” .

205.4

In subsection (7)—

205.4.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for “or by an order under section 105A of
the 2009 Act” substitute  “, by an order under section 105A of the 2009 Act or
by regulations under section  19 (1)  of the 2022 Act” , and

205.4.b

in each of paragraphs (a) and (b), for “or a combined authority” substitute
“, a combined authority or a combined county authority” .

205.5

In subsection (8)—

205.5.a

for “or a combined authority” substitute  “, a combined authority or a
combined county authority” , and

205.5.b

for “, or by an order under section 105A of the 1999 Act” substitute  “, by an
order under section 105A of the 1999 Act or by regulations under section  19
(1)  of the 2022 Act” .

##### Policing and Crime Act 2017 (c. 3)

206

The Policing and Crime Act 2017 is amended as follows.

207

In section 3 (collaboration agreements: specific restrictions), after
subsection (7) insert—

207.7A

A combined county authority that exercises the functions of a fire and rescue
authority by virtue of section  18  or  19  of the Levelling-up and
Regeneration Act 2023 may only enter into a collaboration agreement where the
functions of the authority to which the agreement relates are functions of a
fire and rescue authority that the combined county authority is entitled to
exercise.

208

In section 5(5) (collaboration agreements: definitions)—

208.a

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (b);

208.b

after paragraph (c) insert—

208.b.d

a combined county authority that exercises the functions of a fire and rescue
authority by virtue of section  18  or  19  of the Levelling-up and
Regeneration Act 2023, or

208.b.e

an elected mayor who exercises the functions of a fire and rescue authority by
virtue of section  30  of that Act.

##### Technical and Further Education Act 2017 (c. 19)

209

The Technical and Further Education Act 2017 is amended as follows.

210

In Schedule 3 (conduct of education administration: statutory corporations)—

210.a

in paragraph 13(b), in the inserted paragraph (ab), for “or combined
authority” substitute  “, combined authority or combined county authority” ;

210.b

in paragraph 38(c)—

210.b.i

after the definition of “combined authority”, insert—

“ “combined county authority ” means an authority established under section  9
(1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;”,

;

210.b.ii

in the definition of “director of children’s services”, in paragraph (b),
after “a combined authority” insert  “or a combined county authority” .

211

In Schedule 4 (conduct of education administration: companies)—

211.a

in paragraph 12(b), in the inserted paragraph (ab), for “or combined
authority” substitute  “, combined authority or combined county authority” ;

211.b

in paragraph 36(c)—

211.b.i

after the definition of “combined authority”, insert—

“ “combined county authority ” means an authority established under section  9
(1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;”,

;

211.b.ii

in the definition of “director of children’s services”, in paragraph (b),
after “a combined authority” insert  “or a combined county authority” .

##### Bus Services Act 2017 (c. 21)

212

In section 22(3) of the Bus Services Act 2017 (bus companies: limitation of
powers of authorities in England), in the definition of “relevant authority”,
after paragraph (c) insert—

212.ca

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

##### Digital Economy Act 2017 (c. 30)

213

The Digital Economy Act 2017 is amended as follows.

214

In Schedule 4 (public service delivery: specified persons for the purposes of
section 35), after paragraph 14 insert—

214.14A

A combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023.

215

In Schedule 5 (public service delivery: specified persons for the purposes of
sections 36 and 37), after paragraph 8 insert—

215.8A

A combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023.

216

In Schedule 6 (public service delivery: specified persons for the purposes of
sections 36 and 37), after paragraph 7 insert—

216.7A

A combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023.

##### Data Protection Act 2018 (c.12)

217

In Schedule 1 to the Data Protection Act 2018 (special categories of personal
data and criminal convictions etc data), in paragraph 23(3), after paragraph
(h) insert—

217.ha

a mayor for the area of a combined county authority established under section
9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

##### Automated and Electric Vehicles Act 2018 (c. 18)

218

218.1

Section 12 of the Automated and Electric Vehicles Act 2018 (duty to consider
making regulations under section 11(1)(a) on request from mayor) is amended as
follows.

218.2

In subsection (7)—

218.2.a

in paragraph (a), after “a combined authority” insert  “, a combined county
authority” ;

218.2.b

in paragraph (b), after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

218.2.b.ia

in the case of the area of a combined county authority, the mayor for the area
elected in accordance with section  27 (2)  of the Levelling-up and
Regeneration Act 2023;

.

218.3

In subsection (8), in the appropriate place insert—

“ combined county authority ” means a combined county authority established
under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

##### Skills and Post-16 Education Act 2022 (c. 21)

219

The Skills and Post-16 Education Act 2022 is amended as follows.

220

In section 1(7) (views of relevant authority in relation to local skills
improvement plan), for paragraph (a), and the “or” at the end of that
paragraph, substitute—

220.a

a combined authority within the meaning of Part 6 of the Local Democracy,
Economic Development and Construction Act 2009 (see section 103 of that Act),

220.aa

a CCA within the meaning of  Chapter 1  of Part 2 of the Levelling-up and
Regeneration Act 2023 (combined county authorities) (see  section 9  of that
Act),

220.ab

a local authority that has functions conferred on it by regulations made under
section 16(1) of the Cities and Local Government Devolution Act 2016 (power to
transfer etc public authority functions to certain local authorities), or

.

221

221.1

Section 4 (interpretation of sections 1 to 4) is amended as follows.

221.2

In subsection (1), at the appropriate place insert—

“ combined county authority ” means a combined county authority established
under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

221.3

In subsection (2), after paragraph (b) insert—

221.3.ba

a combined county authority

.

222

In section 19(2) (meaning of “ relevant provider ”), after paragraph (g)
insert—

222.ga

a combined county authority;

.

223

In section 20(7) (meaning of “ funding authority ”), after paragraph (c)
insert—

223.ca

a combined county authority;

.

224

In section 21(2) (interpretation of sections 19 to 21), at the appropriate
place insert—

“ combined county authority ” means a combined county authority established
under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

##### Health and Care Act 2022 (c. 31)

225

In section 180(2) of the Health and Care Act 2022 (licensing of cosmetic
procedures), in the definition of “local authority”, after paragraph (d)
insert—

225.da

a combined county authority established under section  9 (1)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

##### Elections Act 2022 (c. 37)

226

The Elections Act 2022 is amended as follows.

227

In section 37(1) (interpretation of Part 5), in the definition of “relevant
elective office”, after paragraph (f) insert—

227.fa

mayor for the area of a combined county authority established under section  9
(1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

228

In section 45(9) (meaning of “ relevant election ”), after paragraph (g)
insert—

228.ga

an election for the return of a mayor for the area of a combined county
authority established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and
Regeneration Act 2023,

.

229

229.1

Paragraph 1 of Schedule 11 (illegal practices) is amended as follows.

229.2

In sub-paragraph (1)(b)—

229.2.a

omit the “or” at the end of sub-paragraph (iv), and

229.2.b

after sub-paragraph (v) (but before the “and” at the end of that sub-
paragraph) insert

or

229.2.b.vi

an election for the return of a mayor for the area of a combined county
authority,

.

229.3

In sub-paragraph (4)—

229.3.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (b), and

229.3.b

at the end of paragraph (c) insert

, and

229.3.b.d

as it applies in relation to an election for the return of a mayor for the
area of a combined county authority by virtue of regulations under paragraph
12 (1)  of  Schedule 2  to the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023.

229.4

After sub-paragraph (5) insert—

229.4.6

In this paragraph “ combined county authority ” means a combined county
authority established under section  9 (1)  of the Levelling-up and
Regeneration Act 2023.

230

In paragraph 12(4) of Schedule 8 (voting and candidacy rights of EU citizens:
transitional provision), after paragraph (d) insert—

230.da

mayor for the area of a combined county authority established under section  9
(1)  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;

.

  Alteration of street names: consequential amendments

section 81

##### Public Health Acts Amendment Act 1907

1

In section 21 of the Public Health Acts Amendment Act 1907 (power to alter
names of streets), at the end insert—

This section does not apply in relation to a street or part of a street in
England.

##### Public Health Act 1925

2

In section 18 of the Public Health Act 1925 (alteration of name of street),
after subsection (4) insert—

2.4A

In its application in relation to a street, or part of a street, in England,
this section applies as if, in subsection (1), the words “may alter the name
of any street, or part of a street, or” were omitted.

See  section 81  of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023 for provision
about altering street names in England.

##### London Building Acts (Amendment) Act 1939

3

In section 6 (assigning of names to streets etc), after subsection (3) insert—

3.4

In the case of an order under subsection (1) to which  section 81 (5)  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023 (requirement to demonstrate necessary
support before street name altered) applies, subsections (2) and (3) do not
apply.

##### Local Government Act 1972

4

In Part 2 of Schedule 14 to the Local Government Act 1972 (amendments and
modifications of Public Health Acts etc), in paragraph 26(c) for “sections 21
and” substitute  “section” .

  Determinations and other decisions: having regard to national development
management policies

Section 93 (5)

##### Town and Country Planning Act 1990

1

TCPA 1990 is amended as follows.

2

In section 59A (development orders: permission in principle), in subsection
(11), after “development plan” insert  “, any national development management
policies so far as they are material” .

3

In section 70 (determination of applications for planning permission: general
considerations),—

3.a

in subsection (2), after paragraph (aza) insert—

3.a.azb

any national development management policies, so far as material to the
application,

;

3.b

in subsection (2A), for “(2)(b)” substitute  “(2)(azb) and (b)” .

4

In section 70A (power to decline to determine subsequent application)—

4.a

after subsection (5) insert—

4.a.5A

The relevant considerations, in relation to a local planning authority in
England, are—

4.a.5A.a

the development plan so far as material to the application;

4.a.5A.b

any national development management policies so far as material to the
application;

4.a.5A.c

any other material considerations.

;

4.b

in subsection (6), after “considerations” insert  “, in relation to a local
planning authority in Wales,” .

5

In section 74 (directions etc as to method of dealing with applications)—

5.a

in subsection (1)(b), at the end insert  “or, in the case of an authority in
England, any national development management policy” ;

5.b

in subsection (1C), after paragraph (a) (but before the “and” at the end of
that paragraph) insert—

5.b.aa

any national development management policies,

.

6

In section 91 (general condition limiting duration of planning permission), in
subsection (2), for “shall be” substitute

must be—

6.a

in the case of an authority in England, a period which the authority consider
appropriate having regard to the provisions of the development plan, to any
national development management policies so far as they are material and to
any other material considerations, or

6.b

in the case of an authority in Wales,

.

7

In section 92 (outline planning permission), in subsection (6), for “shall
have regard” substitute

must have regard—

7.a

in the case of an authority in England, to the provisions of the development
plan, to any national development management policies so far as they are
material and to any other material considerations, or

7.b

in the case of an authority in Wales,

.

8

In section 97 (power to revoke or modify planning permission or permission in
principle), in subsection (2), for “shall have regard” substitute

must have regard—

8.a

in the case of an authority in England, to the development plan, to any
national development management policies so far as they are material and to
any other material considerations, or

8.b

in the case of an authority in Wales,

.

9

In section 102 (orders requiring discontinuance of use or alteration or
removal of buildings or works)—

9.a

in subsection (1), for “the development plan and to any other material
considerations” substitute  “the relevant considerations” ;

9.b

after that subsection insert—

9.b.1A

In subsection (1) “the relevant considerations” are—

9.b.1A.a

in the case of an authority in England, the development plan, any national
development management policies so far as they are material and any other
material considerations, or

9.b.1A.b

in the case of an authority in Wales, the development plan and any other
material considerations.

10

In section 172 (issue of enforcement notice), in subsection (1)(b), for
“regard” substitute

regard—

10.i

in the case of an authority in England, to the development plan, to any
national development management policies so far as they are material and to
any other material considerations, or

10.ii

in the case of an authority in Wales,

.

11

In section 177 (grant or modification of planning permission on appeals
against enforcement notices), for subsection (2) substitute—

11.2

In considering whether to grant planning permission under subsection (1)—

11.2.a

if the land to which the enforcement notice relates is in England, the
Secretary of State must have regard—

11.2.a.i

to the provisions of the development plan, so far as material to the subject
matter of the enforcement notice,

11.2.a.ii

to any national development management policies, so far as material to the
subject matter of the enforcement notice, and

11.2.a.iii

to any other material considerations, or

11.2.b

if the land to which the enforcement notice relates is in Wales, the Welsh
Ministers must have regard—

11.2.b.i

to the provisions of the development plan, so far as material to the subject
matter of the enforcement notice, and

11.2.b.ii

to any other material considerations.

12

In Schedule 4B (process for making of neighbourhood development orders)—

12.a

in paragraph 5(5), before paragraph (a) insert—

12.a.za

national development management policies that are relevant to the draft
neighbourhood development order to which the proposal in question relates,

;

12.b

in paragraph 8(2), after paragraph (d) insert—

12.b.da

the making of the order is in general conformity with any national development
management policies that are relevant to it,

.

13

In Schedule 9 (requirements relating to discontinuance of mineral working), in
paragraph 1—

13.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for “the development plan and to any other material
considerations” substitute  “the relevant considerations” ;

13.b

after that sub-paragraph insert—

13.b.1A

In sub-paragraph (1) “the relevant considerations” are—

13.b.1A.a

in the case of an authority in England, the development plan, any national
development management policies so far as they are material and any other
material considerations, or

13.b.1A.b

in the case of an authority in Wales, the development plan and any other
material considerations.

##### Planning (Hazardous Substances) Act 1990

14

In section 9 of the Hazardous Substances Act (determination of applications
for hazardous substances consent), in subsection (2), after paragraph (c)
insert—

14.ca

in the case of an authority in England, to any national development management
policies so far as they are material;

.

##### Greater London Authority Act 1999

15

In section 337(2) of GLAA 1999 (matters that may give rise to modification of
spatial development strategy for London before publication), after paragraph
(c) (but before the “or” at the end of that paragraph) insert—

15.ca

any national development management policies (within the meaning given by
section 38ZA  of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004) so far as they
are material;

.

  Plan making

Section  97

  In Part 2 of PCPA 2004 (local development) for sections 15 to 37 (and the
heading before section 15) substitute—       Joint spatial development
strategies     Agreements to prepare joint spatial development strategy
15A       1     Two or more eligible local planning authorities may agree to
prepare a joint spatial development strategy.         2     A local planning
authority are eligible for the purposes of subsection  (1)  if—     a     they
are not a London borough council,         b     their area is not within, or
the same as, the area of a combined authority established under section 103 of
the Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009,         c
they are not prescribed as ineligible for the purposes of subsection  (1) ,
d     they are not already party to an agreement under subsection  (1) , and
e     either—     i     no joint spatial development strategy is operative in
relation to the area of the authority, or         ii     such a strategy is
operative in relation to the area but the authority wish to enter into an
agreement under subsection  (1)  in anticipation of the existing strategy
being withdrawn or the authority withdrawing from it.                 3
The Secretary of State may prescribe an authority under subsection  (2) (c)
only if the Secretary of State considers it appropriate to do so because of an
exercise, or a contemplated exercise, of the powers in section 16 of the
Cities and Local Government Devolution Act 2016 or  section 19  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023 (powers to transfer etc public
authority functions to certain local authorities).         4     In this
section and sections  15AA  to  15AI —         “ the joint strategy area ”, in
relation to a joint spatial development strategy, means the combined area of
the participating authorities;           “ the participating authorities ”—
in relation to a joint spatial development strategy that is being (or has
been) prepared but has yet to become operative, means the local planning
authorities that are for the time being party to the agreement to prepare it,
and           in relation to a joint spatial development strategy that is
operative, means the local planning authorities that have adopted it and not
since withdrawn from it,         and, unless the context otherwise requires,
means those authorities acting jointly under such arrangements as they put in
place for the purpose;           “ participating authority ” is to be read
accordingly;           “ preparation agreement ” means an agreement under
subsection  (1) .                     Contents of joint spatial development
strategy     15AA       1     A joint spatial development strategy must
include a statement of the policies (however expressed) of the participating
authorities, in relation to the development and use of land in the joint
strategy area, which are—     a     of strategic importance to that area, and
b     designed to achieve objectives that relate to the particular
characteristics or circumstances of that area.             2     A joint
spatial development strategy may specify or describe infrastructure the
provision of which the participating authorities consider to be of strategic
importance to the joint strategy area for the purposes of—     a
supporting or facilitating development in that area,         b     mitigating,
or adapting to, climate change, or         c     promoting or improving the
economic, social or environmental well-being of that area.             3     A
joint spatial development strategy may specify or describe affordable housing
the provision of which the participating authorities consider to be of
strategic importance to the joint strategy area.         4     For the
purposes of subsections  (1)  to  (3) , a matter—     a     may be of
strategic importance to the joint strategy area if it does not affect the
whole of that area, but         b     is not to be regarded as being of
strategic importance to that area unless it is of strategic importance to the
area of more than one of the participating authorities.             5     The
Secretary of State may prescribe further matters the joint spatial development
strategy may, or must, deal with.         6     A joint spatial development
strategy must contain such diagrams, illustrations or other descriptive or
explanatory matter relating to its contents as may be prescribed.         7
A joint spatial development strategy may make different provision for
different cases or for different parts of the joint strategy area.         8
A joint spatial development strategy must be designed to secure that the use
and development of land in the joint strategy area contribute to the
mitigation of, and adaptation to, climate change.         9     A joint
spatial development strategy must take account of any local nature recovery
strategy that relates to any part of the joint strategy area, including in
particular—     a     the areas identified in the strategy as areas which—
i     are, or could become, of particular importance for biodiversity, or
ii     are areas where the recovery or enhancement of biodiversity could make
a particular contribution to other environmental benefits,             b
the priorities set out in the strategy for recovering or enhancing
biodiversity, and         c     the proposals set out in the strategy as to
potential measures relating to those priorities.             10     A joint
spatial development strategy must not—     a     include anything that is not
permitted or required by or under the preceding provisions of this section,
b     specify particular sites where development should take place, or
c     be inconsistent with or (in substance) repeat any national development
management policy.                   Consultation on draft strategy     15AB
1     Before any of the participating authorities adopt a joint spatial
development strategy, the participating authorities must—     a     prepare a
draft of their proposed strategy,         b     make copies available for
inspection at such places as may be prescribed,         c     send a copy to
each of the bodies and persons specified in subsection  (2) ,         d
comply with any requirements imposed by regulations under  section 15LE , and
e     consider any representations made in accordance with such regulations.
2     The bodies and persons mentioned in subsection  (1) (c)  are—     a
the Secretary of State,         b     any county council that are not a
participating authority but any part of whose area forms part of the joint
strategy area,         c     the council of any county or district whose area
adjoins the joint strategy area and is affected by the proposed strategy,
d     such other persons or bodies as may be prescribed, and         e     any
other body to which, or person to whom, the participating authorities consider
it appropriate to send a copy.             3     In determining the bodies to
which it is appropriate to send a copy of the strategy under subsection  (2)
(e)  (if any), the bodies to whom the participating authorities consider
sending a copy must include—     a     voluntary bodies some or all of whose
activities benefit the whole or part of the joint strategy area,         b
bodies which represent the interests of different racial, ethnic or national
groups in the joint strategy area,         c     bodies which represent the
interests of different religious groups in the joint strategy area, and
d     bodies which represent the interests of different persons carrying on
business in the joint strategy area.             4     Each copy made
available for inspection or sent under subsection  (1)  must be accompanied by
a statement of the prescribed period within which representations may be made
to the participating authorities.         5     The persons who may make
representations in accordance with the regulations include, in particular, the
bodies and persons specified in subsection  (2) .         6     In this
section and sections  15AD  and  15AG , “ representations made in accordance
with the regulations ” means representations made—     a     in accordance
with regulations made under this Part; and         b     within the prescribed
period.             7     In this section “ the prescribed period ” means such
period as may be prescribed by, or determined in accordance with, regulations
made by the Secretary of State.               Public examination     15AC
1     Before any of the participating authorities adopt a joint spatial
development strategy, the participating authorities must, unless the Secretary
of State otherwise directs, cause an examination in public to be held in
relation to the proposed strategy.         2     The following provisions of
this section have effect in relation to an examination in public under
subsection  (1) .         3     An examination in public is to be conducted by
a person appointed by the Secretary of State for the purpose.         4
The matters examined at an examination in public are to be such matters
affecting the consideration of the joint spatial development strategy as the
person conducting the examination in public may consider ought to be so
examined.         5     The person conducting an examination in public must
make a report to the participating authorities.         6     No person is to
have a right to be heard at an examination in public.         7     The
following may take part in an examination in public—     a     the
participating authorities, and         b     any person invited to do so by
the person conducting the examination in public.                   Adoption of
strategy     15AD       1     Subject to the following provisions of this
section, each of the participating authorities may, by resolution, adopt the
joint spatial development strategy prepared by them.         2     The joint
spatial development strategy adopted by the participating authorities must be
in the form of the draft prepared under section  15AB (1) (a) , either as
originally prepared or as modified to take account of—     a     any
representations made in accordance with the regulations (see section  15AB (6)
),         b     any direction given under subsection  (7)  (and not
withdrawn),         c     any report made under section  15AC  by a person
conducting an examination in public,         d     the withdrawal of a
participating authority under section  15AG (3) ,         e     any national
development management policies so far as material, or         f     any other
material considerations.             3     Subsection  (2)  is subject to the
following provisions of this section.         4     The joint spatial
development strategy must not be adopted by any of the participating
authorities until after—     a     the participating authorities have
considered any representations made in accordance with the regulations, or
b     if no such representations are made, the expiry of the prescribed
period;       and, in either case, until after the report of the person
conducting the examination in public under section  15AC  has been made
(unless no such examination is to be held).         5     The joint spatial
development strategy may not be adopted by a participating authority in
relation to whose area a joint spatial development strategy is already
operative.         6     If at any time it appears to the Secretary of State
that it is expedient to do so for the purpose of avoiding—     a     any
inconsistency with current national policies, or         b     any detriment
to the interests of an area outside the joint strategy area,       the
Secretary of State may, at any time before any of the participating
authorities have adopted the joint spatial development strategy, give the
participating authorities a direction under subsection  (7) .         7     A
direction under this subsection is a direction to the participating
authorities not to adopt the joint spatial development strategy except in a
form which includes modifications to the proposed joint spatial development
strategy in such respects as are indicated in the direction, in order to—
a     remove the inconsistency mentioned in subsection  (6) (a) , or         b
avoid the detriment mentioned in subsection  (6) (b) .             8     Where
a direction under subsection  (7)  is given, none of the participating
authorities may adopt the joint spatial development strategy unless—     a
the participating authorities satisfy the Secretary of State that they have
made the modifications necessary to conform with the direction, or         b
the direction is withdrawn.             9     A joint spatial development
strategy becomes operative on the date on which, having been adopted by each
participating authority, it is published by the participating authorities
together with a statement that it has been so adopted.         10     In this
section “ the prescribed period ” means such period as may be prescribed by,
or determined in accordance with, regulations made by the Secretary of State.
Review and monitoring     15AE       1     This section applies if a joint
spatial development strategy is operative.         2     The participating
authorities must keep under review the matters which may be expected to affect
the development of the joint strategy area or the planning of its development
or which are otherwise relevant to the content of the strategy.         3
For the purpose of discharging their functions under subsection  (2)  of
keeping under review any matters relating to the area of a local planning
authority outside the joint strategy area, the participating authorities must
consult that local planning authority about those matters.         4     The
participating authorities must review the strategy from time to time.
5     If the Secretary of State so directs, the participating authorities
must, within such time as may be specified in the direction, review the
strategy or such part of it as may be specified in the direction.         6
The participating authorities must—     a     monitor the implementation of
the strategy, and         b     monitor, and collect information about,
matters relevant to the review, alteration or implementation of the strategy.
Alteration of strategy     15AF       1     If a joint spatial development
strategy is operative, the participating authorities may at any time prepare
and adopt alterations of the strategy.         2     The Secretary of State
may direct the participating authorities to exercise the power in subsection
(1)  in such manner and within such time as are specified in the direction.
3     Sections  15AB  to  15AD  apply in relation to the preparation and
adoption of an alteration under subsection  (1)  as they apply in relation to
the preparation and adoption of a joint spatial development strategy; and the
strategy as altered must still conform to section  15AA .         4     But
sections  15AB  and  15AC  do not apply in relation to an alteration if—     a
the alteration is made in response to the withdrawal of a participating
authority under section  15AH (2) , and         b     the strategy as altered
will have substantially the same effect in relation to the joint strategy area
(as it stands following the withdrawal) as it had in relation to that area
before the alteration.                   Withdrawal before strategy becomes
operative     15AG       1     This section applies if a preparation agreement
is in force but the joint spatial development strategy to which the agreement
relates (“the proposed strategy”) has not become operative.         2     A
participating authority may withdraw from the agreement before the proposed
strategy is published for consultation.         3     A participating
authority may withdraw from the agreement after the proposed strategy is
published for consultation if they have given at least 12 weeks’ notice to
each other participating authority of their intention to do so.         4
A participating authority that have adopted the strategy under section  15AD
(1)  may not withdraw from the agreement under subsection  (3)  unless they
have first rescinded the resolution adopting the strategy.         5     A
withdrawal under subsection  (2)  or  (3)  is effected by notice given to each
other participating authority.         6     The participating authorities may
cancel the agreement at any time.         7     If the withdrawal of a
participating authority under subsection  (2)  or  (3)  means that there are
no longer two or more participating authorities, the agreement is deemed to be
cancelled under subsection  (6) .         8     The participating authorities
may, and if the agreement is cancelled must, withdraw the proposed strategy if
it has been published for consultation.         9     On the withdrawal of the
proposed strategy, the participating authorities must—     a     withdraw the
copies made available for inspection under section  15AB (1) (b) , and
b     give notice of the withdrawal to—     i     each body or person to whom
a copy was sent under section  15AB (1) (c) , and         ii     any other
body or person who made representations in accordance with the regulations
(see section  15AB (6) );           and any participating authority that have
adopted the strategy are deemed to rescind the resolution by which they did
so.         10     In the application of subsections  (8)  and  (9)  where the
agreement has been cancelled, the “participating authorities” are to be taken
to be the authorities that were the participating authorities immediately
before the cancellation.         11     If—     a     a participating
authority withdraw from the agreement under subsection  (3) ,         b
the agreement is not cancelled under subsection  (6) , and         c     but
for this subsection, the remaining participating authorities would, in
response to the withdrawal, modify the proposed strategy so that it would have
a substantially different effect on the joint strategy area (as it stands
following the withdrawal) from that which the version published for
consultation would have had on that area,       the participating authorities
must, instead of modifying the proposed strategy, withdraw it under subsection
(8) .         12     For the purposes of this section and section  15AI , a
proposed strategy is “published for consultation” when a draft of it is made
available for inspection under section  15AB (1) (b)  or sent to any person
under section  15AB (1) (c) .         13     If a proposed strategy is
withdrawn under subsection  (8) , the fact that the strategy was published for
consultation is to be disregarded for the purposes of subsections  (2)  and
(3) .               Withdrawal after strategy becomes operative     15AH
1     This section applies if a joint spatial development strategy is
operative.         2     A participating authority may withdraw from the
strategy if—     a     the period of five years beginning with the day on
which the strategy became operative has elapsed, and         b     the
authority have given at least 12 weeks’ notice to the other participating
authorities of their intention to do so.             3     A withdrawal under
subsection  (2)  is effected by notice given to each other participating
authority.         4     The participating authorities may withdraw the
strategy at any time.         5     If the withdrawal of a participating
authority under subsection  (2)  means that there are no longer two or more
participating authorities, the joint spatial development strategy is to be
treated as having been withdrawn under subsection  (4) .         6     The
Secretary of State may direct the participating authorities to withdraw the
strategy if the Secretary of State thinks that the strategy is unsatisfactory.
7     If a participating authority withdraw from the strategy, the other
participating authorities must consider whether to alter the strategy under
section  15AF  or withdraw it under subsection  (4) .         8     If a
participating authority withdraw from the strategy, the strategy ceases to be
operative in relation to the area of that authority (irrespective of whether
it is altered under section  15AF ).               Effect of creation of
combined authority in joint strategy area     15AI       1     This section
applies if an order is made under section 103 of the Local Democracy, Economic
Development and Construction Act 2009 establishing a combined authority the
area of which includes, or is the same as, the area of a participating
authority.         2     Subsection  (3)  or  (4)  applies if the order is
made before the proposed joint spatial development strategy is published for
consultation (see section  15AG (12) ).         3     If the areas of at least
two of the participating authorities are outside the area of the combined
authority, each participating authority whose area is within the area of the
combined authority are deemed, on the making of the order, to withdraw from
the preparation agreement under section  15AG (2) .         4     If the area
of none or only one of the participating authorities is outside the area of
the combined authority, the preparation agreement is deemed, on the making of
the order, to be cancelled under section  15AG (6) .         5     Subsection
(6)  or  (7)  applies if the order is made after the proposed joint spatial
development strategy is published for consultation but before the joint
spatial development strategy becomes operative.         6     If the areas of
at least two of the participating authorities are outside the area of the
combined authority, each participating authority whose area is within the area
of the combined authority are deemed, on the making of the order—     a     to
withdraw from the preparation agreement under section  15AG (3)  (despite not
having given notice as required by that provision), and         b     to
rescind any resolution adopting the strategy.             7     If the area of
none or only one of the participating authorities is outside the area of the
combined authority, the preparation agreement is deemed, on the making of the
order, to be cancelled under section  15AG (6) .         8     Subsection  (9)
or  (10)  applies if—     a     the joint spatial development strategy is
operative, and         b     the combined authority adopts a spatial
development strategy for its area.             9     If the areas of at least
two of the participating authorities are outside the area of the combined
authority, each participating authority whose area is within the area of the
combined authority is deemed, on the adoption of the strategy by the combined
authority, to withdraw from the joint spatial development strategy under
section  15AH (2)  (even if the conditions in that provision are not met).
10     If the area of none or only one of the participating authorities is
outside the area of the combined authority, the joint spatial development
strategy is deemed, on the adoption of the strategy by the combined authority,
to be withdrawn under section  15AH (4) .         11     If a proposed
strategy is withdrawn under section  15AG (8) , the fact that the strategy was
published for consultation is to be disregarded for the purposes of
subsections  (2)  and  (5) .                 Plan timetables     Local plan
timetable     15B       1     Each local planning authority must prepare and
maintain a document to be known as their “local plan timetable”.         2
The local plan timetable must specify—     a     the matters which the
authority’s local plan for their area is to deal with,         b     the
geographical area to which the authority’s local plan is to relate,         c
any supplementary plans which the authority are to prepare,         d     the
subject matter and geographical area, site or sites to which each of those
supplementary plans is to relate,         e     how the authority propose to
comply with the requirement in  section 15F (1)  (requirement in relation to
design code),         f     whether the authority’s local plan for their area
is to be a joint local plan and, if so, each other local planning authority
for whose area the joint local plan is to be their local plan,         g
whether the authority are to prepare a joint supplementary plan and, if so,
each other local planning authority who are to prepare that joint
supplementary plan with them,         h     any matter or area in respect of
which the authority have agreed (or propose to agree) to the constitution of a
joint committee under  section 15J , and         i     a timetable for the
preparation of the authority’s local plan for their area, and any
supplementary plans the authority are to make, which is consistent with this
Part and any regulations made under it.             3     If the local
planning authority’s local plan for their area is to be a joint local plan, or
the authority is to prepare one or more joint supplementary plans, the
timetable for each joint plan, specified in the local plan timetable in
accordance with  subsection (2) (i) , must be consistent with the timetable
for that plan in the local plan timetable prepared by each other local
planning authority who are to prepare that plan.         4     If the local
planning authority are a minerals and waste planning authority, the local plan
timetable may incorporate the authority’s minerals and waste plan timetable.
5     The Secretary of State may prescribe—     a     the form and content of
the local plan timetable;         b     further matters which the local plan
timetable must deal with.             6     If a local planning authority have
not prepared a local plan timetable, the Secretary of State or the Mayor of
London may—     a     prepare a local plan timetable for the authority, and
b     direct the authority to bring that timetable into effect.             7
The Secretary of State or the Mayor of London may direct the local planning
authority to make such amendments to the local plan timetable as the Secretary
of State or (as the case may be) Mayor thinks appropriate for the purpose of
ensuring full and effective coverage (both geographically and with regard to
subject matter) of the authority’s area by the development plan for that area.
8     To bring the local plan timetable into effect, the local planning
authority must publish it, together with a statement that the timetable is to
have effect.         9     Once the local plan timetable has effect, the local
planning authority must comply with it.         10     The Secretary of State
may by regulations make provision as to when, or the circumstances in which, a
local planning authority must revise their local plan timetable (and that
provision may confer a power to direct that a local plan timetable is to be
revised).         11     Subsections  (1)  to  (9)  and  section 15BA  apply
to the revision of a local plan timetable as they apply to the preparation of
a local plan timetable.         12     For further provision about directions
under subsection  (6)  or  (7) , see  section 15BA .               Local plan
timetable: further provision about directions under  section 15B     15BA
1     The Mayor of London—     a     may give a direction under  section 15B
(6)  or  (7)  only if the local planning authority are a London borough
council, and         b     in considering whether to give such a direction,
and which amendments to include in the direction, must have regard to any
guidance issued by the Secretary of State.             2     A direction under
section 15B (6)  or  (7)   must contain the Secretary of State’s, or (as the
case may be) the Mayor of London’s, reasons for giving it.         3     If at
any time the Mayor of London gives a direction under  section 15B (6)  or  (7)
—     a     the Mayor must at that time send a copy of the direction to the
Secretary of State, and         b     the direction is not to be given
effect until such time as may be prescribed.             4     The Secretary
of State may, within such time as may be prescribed, direct the local planning
authority—     a     to disregard a direction given under  section 15B (6)
or  (7)  by the Mayor of London, or         b     to give effect to the
direction with such modifications as may be specified in the Secretary of
State’s direction.             5     Such a direction must contain the
Secretary of State’s reasons for giving it.         6     If at any time the
Secretary of State gives a direction under  subsection (4) , the Secretary of
State must at that time send a copy of the direction to the Mayor of London.
7     Section 38(1) of the Greater London Authority Act 1999 (delegation of
functions by the Mayor) does not apply to the Mayor of London’s functions
under  section 15B (6)  or  (7)  of giving a direction.               Minerals
and waste plan timetable     15BB       1     Each minerals and waste planning
authority must prepare and maintain a document to be known as their “minerals
and waste plan timetable”.         2     The minerals and waste plan timetable
must specify—     a     the matters which will be dealt with by the minerals
and waste plan for the relevant area,         b     the geographical area to
which the authority’s minerals and waste plan is to relate,         c     any
supplementary plans which the minerals and waste planning authority are to
make,         d     the subject matter and geographical area, site or sites to
which each supplementary plan is to relate,         e     whether the minerals
and waste plan for the authority’s area is to be a joint minerals and waste
plan and, if so, each other minerals and waste planning authority for whose
relevant area the joint minerals and waste plan is to be the minerals and
waste plan,         f     whether the authority are to prepare a joint
supplementary plan and, if so, each other minerals and waste planning
authority who are to prepare that joint supplementary plan with them, and
g     a timetable for the preparation of the minerals and waste plan for the
relevant area, and any supplementary plans the authority are to make, which is
consistent with this Part and any regulations made under it.             3
If the minerals and waste plan for the relevant area is to be a joint minerals
and waste plan, or the authority is to prepare one or more joint supplementary
plans, the timetable for each joint plan, specified in the minerals and waste
plan timetable in accordance with  subsection (2) (g) , must be consistent
with the timetable for that plan in the minerals and waste plan timetable
prepared by each other minerals and waste planning authority who are to
prepare that plan.         4     Sections  15B (5)  to  (12) ,  15BA  and
15LE  apply in relation to a minerals and waste plan timetable as they apply
in relation to a local plan timetable and for that purpose—     a
references to a local plan timetable are to be read as references to a
minerals and waste plan timetable,         b     references to a local plan
are to be read as references to a minerals and waste plan,         c
references to a local planning authority are to be read as references to a
minerals and waste planning authority, and         d     references to a local
planning authority’s area are to be read as references to a minerals and waste
planning authority’s relevant area.             5     In this section “ joint
minerals and waste plan ” means a minerals and waste plan prepared jointly by
two or more minerals and waste planning authorities for their combined
relevant areas under sections  15I  and  15IA  (as applied by  section 15CB
(8) ).                 Local, minerals and waste and supplementary plans
Local plans     15C       1     Each local planning authority must prepare a
document to be known as their “local plan”.         2     Only one local plan
may have effect in relation to a local planning authority’s area at any one
time.         3     The local plan must set out policies of the local planning
authority (however expressed) in relation to the amount, type and location of,
and timetable for, development in the local planning authority’s area.
4     The local plan may include—     a     other policies (however expressed)
in relation to the use or development of land in the local planning
authority’s area which are designed to achieve objectives that relate to the
particular characteristics or circumstances of their area, any part of their
area or one or more specific sites in their area;         b     details of any
infrastructure requirements, or requirements for affordable housing, to which
development in accordance with the policies, included in the plan under
subsection (3)  or  paragraph (a)  of this subsection, would give rise;
c     requirements with respect to design that relate to development, or
development of a particular description, throughout the local planning
authority’s area, in any part of their area or at one or more specific sites
in their area, which the local planning authority consider should be met for
planning permission for the development to be granted.             5     The
Secretary of State may prescribe further matters which the local plan may, or
must, deal with.         6     The local plan must be designed to secure that
the use and development of land in the local planning authority’s area
contribute to the mitigation of, and adaptation to, climate change.         7
The local plan must take account of any local nature recovery strategy that
relates to all or part of the local planning authority’s area, including in
particular—     a     the areas identified in the strategy as areas which—
i     are, or could become, of particular importance for biodiversity, or
ii     are areas where the recovery or enhancement of biodiversity could make
a particular contribution to other environmental benefits,             b
the priorities set out in the strategy for recovering or enhancing
biodiversity, and         c     the proposals set out in the strategy as to
potential measures relating to those priorities.             8     The local
plan must take account of an assessment of the amount, and type, of housing
that is needed in the local planning authority’s area, including the amount of
affordable housing that is needed.         9     The local plan must not—
a     include anything that is not permitted or required by or under
subsections  (3)  to  (5)  or  (10)  or regulations under  section 15CA (8)
(a) , or         b     be inconsistent with or (in substance) repeat any
national development management policy.             10     References in this
section to development do not include minerals and waste development, but
where the local planning authority is the minerals and waste planning
authority for any part of their area, their local plan may incorporate all or
part of their minerals and waste plan.               Local plans: preparation
and further provision     15CA       1     A local plan must be prepared in
accordance with the local planning authority’s local plan timetable.         2
A local plan must be in general conformity with the spatial development
strategy, if one is operative in relation to the area of the local planning
authority.         3     The local planning authority must, at such times as
may be prescribed, seek observations or advice in relation to a proposed local
plan, from a person appointed by the Secretary of State.         4     The
Secretary of State may require the local planning authority to—     a
reimburse the Secretary of State for any expenditure incurred by the Secretary
of State in, or in connection with, appointing a person under subsection (3),
or         b     pay any fees and expenses of a person appointed by the
Secretary of State under subsection (3).             5     The local planning
authority must, as soon as is reasonably practicable, publish any observations
or advice they receive from a person appointed by the Secretary of State under
subsection (3) .         6     In preparing their local plan, a local planning
authority must have regard to—     a     any observations or advice received
from a person appointed by the Secretary of State under  subsection (3) ,
b     any responses to a consultation, provided for in regulations under
section 15LE , in connection with the preparation of the local plan,         c
national development management policies,         d     other national
policies and advice contained in guidance issued by the Secretary of State,
e     the National Planning Framework for Scotland, if any part of the
authority’s area adjoins Scotland,         f     the National Development
Framework for Wales, if any part of the authority’s area adjoins Wales,
g     any other part of the development plan for the authority’s area which
has effect,         h     any neighbourhood priorities statement—     i
which has effect for part of the authority’s area, and         ii     to which
the authority has not already had regard in preparing another local plan
previously adopted or approved under this Part, and             i     such
other matters as the Secretary of State prescribes.             7     A local
plan has effect only in so far as it or any part of it is adopted or approved
under this Part.         8     Regulations made by the Secretary of State may—
a     prescribe the form and content of a local plan;         b     make
provision as to any further documents which must be prepared by the authority
in connection with the preparation of a local plan (including the form and
content of such documents);         c     prescribe the nature of the
observations or advice which must be sought under  subsection (3) ;         d
prescribe documents or information which must be provided by the local
planning authority to a person appointed by the Secretary of State under
subsection (3)  (including the form and content of such documents);         e
prescribe the form and content of observations or advice provided under
subsection (3) ;         f     prescribe when the local planning authority is
to have regard to something mentioned in  subsection (6) ;         g
prescribe when any step in, or in connection with, the preparation of the
local plan must be taken;         h     make provision as to when, or in what
circumstances, a new local plan is to be prepared to replace the existing one.
Minerals and waste plan     15CB       1     Each minerals and waste planning
authority must, in respect of their relevant area, prepare one or more
documents which are to be known collectively as their “minerals and waste
plan”.         2     The minerals and waste plan must set out policies of the
minerals and waste planning authority (however expressed) in relation to the
amount, type and location of, and timetable for, minerals and waste
development, in the relevant area.         3     The minerals and waste plan
may include—     a     other policies (however expressed) in relation to—
i     minerals and waste development in the relevant area, which are designed
to achieve objectives that relate to the particular characteristics or
circumstances of that area, any part of that area or one or more specific
sites in that area;         ii     development other than minerals and waste
development, which are designed to secure that minerals and waste development
in the relevant area can take place;             b     details of any
infrastructure requirements to which minerals and waste development in
accordance with the policies, included in the plan under  subsection (2)  or
paragraph (a)  of this subsection, would give rise.             4     The
Secretary of State may prescribe further matters relating to minerals and
waste development which the minerals and waste plan may, or must, deal with.
5     The minerals and waste plan must be designed to secure that minerals and
waste development in the relevant area contributes to the mitigation of, and
adaptation to, climate change.         6     The minerals and waste plan must
take account of any local nature recovery strategy that relates to all or part
of the relevant area, including in particular—     a     the areas identified
in the strategy as areas which—     i     are, or could become, of particular
importance for biodiversity, or         ii     are areas where the recovery or
enhancement of biodiversity could make a particular contribution to other
environmental benefits,             b     the priorities set out in the
strategy for recovering or enhancing biodiversity, and         c     the
proposals set out in the strategy as to potential measures relating to those
priorities.             7     The minerals and waste plan must not—     a
include anything that is not permitted or required by or under subsections
(2)  to  (4)  or regulations under  section 15CA (8) (a)  (as applied by
subsection  (8) ), or         b     be inconsistent with or (in substance)
repeat any national development management policy.             8     This Part
applies in relation to a minerals and waste plan as it applies in relation to
a local plan and for that purpose—     a     references to a local plan
timetable are to be read as references to a minerals and waste plan timetable,
b     references to a local plan are to be read as references to a minerals
and waste plan,         c     references to a local planning authority are to
be read as references to a minerals and waste planning authority, and
d     references to a local planning authority’s area are to be read as
references to a minerals and waste planning authority’s relevant area.
9     Subsection  (8)  is subject to such modifications of this Part, as it
applies in relation to a minerals and waste plan, as may be prescribed.
10     Subsection  (8)  does not apply to—     a     sections  15B  and  15BA
;         b     section 15C ;         c     section 15CC ;         d
sections  15J  to  15JB ;         e     section 15LB (2) ;         f
sections  15LC (3) (c)  and  15LD .                   Supplementary plans
15CC       1     Each relevant plan-making authority may prepare one or more
documents, each of which is to be known as a “supplementary plan”.         2
A supplementary plan prepared by the Mayor of London may include requirements
with respect to design that relate to development, or development of a
particular description, throughout Greater London, which the Mayor considers
should be met for planning permission for the development to be granted.
3     A supplementary plan prepared by a local planning authority may include—
a     policies (however expressed) in relation to the amount, type and
location of, or timetable for, development at a specific site in their area or
at two or more specific sites in their area which the authority consider to be
nearby to each other;         b     other policies (however expressed) in
relation to the use or development of land in the local planning authority’s
area which are designed to achieve objectives that relate to the particular
characteristics or circumstances of a specific site in their area or two or
more specific sites in their area which the authority consider to be nearby to
each other;         c     details of any infrastructure requirements, or
requirements for affordable housing, to which development in accordance with
any policies, included in the plan under  paragraph (a)  or  (b) , would give
rise;         d     requirements with respect to design that relate to
development, or development of a particular description, throughout the local
planning authority’s area, in any part of their area or at one or more
specific sites in their area, which the local planning authority consider
should be met for planning permission for the development to be granted.
4     References in  subsection (3)  to development do not include minerals
and waste development.         5     A supplementary plan prepared by a
minerals and waste planning authority may include—     a     policies (however
expressed) in relation to the amount, type and location of, or timetable for,
minerals and waste development at one or more specific sites in the relevant
area or at two or more specific sites in that area which the authority
consider to be nearby to each other;         b     other policies (however
expressed) in relation to—     i     minerals and waste development in the
relevant area which are designed to achieve objectives that relate to the
particular characteristics or circumstances of a specific site in that area or
two or more specific sites in that area which the authority consider to be
nearby to each other;         ii     development other than minerals and waste
development, which are designed to secure that minerals and waste development
can take place at a specific site in the relevant area or two or more specific
sites in that area which the authority consider to be nearby to each other;
c     details of any infrastructure requirements to which minerals and waste
development in accordance with any policies, included in the plan under
paragraph (a)  or  (b) , would give rise.             6     The Secretary of
State may prescribe further matters which a supplementary plan may include.
7     A supplementary plan must be in general conformity with the spatial
development strategy, if one is operative in relation to the area or a site to
which the plan relates.         8     In preparing a supplementary plan, the
relevant plan-making authority must have regard to any other part of the
development plan which has effect for the area or a site to which the plan
relates.         9     So far as the relevant plan-making authority consider
appropriate, having regard to the subject matter of the supplementary plan,
the plan must—     a     be designed to secure that the development and use of
land in the authority’s area contribute to the mitigation of, and adaptation
to, climate change, and         b     take account of any local nature
recovery strategy which relates to all or part of the area to which the plan
relates or to an area in which a site to which the plan relates is located,
including in particular—     i     the areas identified in the strategy as
areas which—     A     are, or could become, of particular importance for
biodiversity, or         B     are areas where the recovery or enhancement of
biodiversity could make a particular contribution to other environmental
benefits,             ii     the priorities set out in the strategy for
recovering or enhancing biodiversity, and         iii     the proposals set
out in the strategy as to potential measures relating to those priorities.
10     A supplementary plan must not—     a     include anything which is not
permitted or required by or under subsections  (2)  to  (6) , or         b
be inconsistent with or (in substance) repeat any national development
management policy.             11     The Secretary of State may by
regulations make provision about the preparation, withdrawal or revision of
supplementary plans.         12     Regulations under  subsection (11) —     a
may apply, or make provision corresponding to, any provision made by or under
this Part in relation to the preparation, withdrawal or revision of a local
plan, with or without modifications;         b     must require a proposed
supplementary plan to be the subject of consultation with the public.
13     A supplementary plan has effect only in so far as it or any part of it
is adopted or approved under this Part.                 Examination of plans
Independent examination: local plans     15D       1     A local planning
authority must submit their proposed local plan to the Secretary of State for
independent examination if a person appointed by the Secretary of State under
section 15CA (3)  advises that the prescribed requirements are met in relation
to the plan.         2     The authority must also send or make available to
the Secretary of State (in addition to the local plan) such other documents
(or copies of documents) and such information as is prescribed.         3
The Secretary of State may prescribe the manner in which the local plan, or
any document or information to be sent under  subsection (2) , is to be sent.
4     The examination must be carried out by a person appointed by the
Secretary of State (“the examiner”).         5     The purpose of the
independent examination is to determine whether it is reasonable to conclude
that the local plan is sound.         6     Any person who makes
representations in relation to the local plan must (if that person so
requests) be given the opportunity to appear before and be heard by the
examiner.         7     At any time before the examiner makes a recommendation
under any of the following subsections, if the examiner considers that—     a
certain matters need to be dealt with in order for it to become reasonable to
conclude that the local plan is sound, and         b     those matters could
be dealt with by pausing the examination under  section 15DA  for further work
to be carried out,       the examiner may decide that the examination is to be
so paused.         8     The Secretary of State may by notice to the examiner—
a     direct the examiner not to take any step, or any further step, in
connection with the examination of the local plan, or of a specified part of
it, until a specified time or until the direction is withdrawn;         b
require the examiner—     i     to consider any specified matters;         ii
to give an opportunity, or further opportunity, to specified persons to appear
before and be heard by the examiner;         iii     to take any specified
procedural step in connection with the examination.               In this
subsection “ specified ” means specified in the notice.         9     Where
the examiner—     a     has carried out the examination, and         b
considers that, in all the circumstances, it would be reasonable to conclude
that the local plan is sound,       the examiner must recommend that the local
plan is adopted and give reasons for the recommendation.         10
Subsections  (11)  and  (12)  apply where the examiner—     a     has carried
out the examination, and         b     is not required by  subsection (9)  to
recommend that the local plan is adopted.             11     If the examiner
considers that, if certain modifications were made to the local plan, it would
become reasonable to conclude that the plan is sound, the examiner must—     a
recommend that those modifications are made and that the plan is then adopted,
and         b     give reasons for the recommendation.             12     If
the examiner is not required by  subsection (11)  to recommend that the local
plan is adopted with modifications and the examination is not paused or to be
paused under  section 15DA , the examiner must—     a     recommend that the
local plan is withdrawn, and         b     give reasons for the
recommendation.             13     The local planning authority must publish
the recommendations and reasons they receive under this section.
Pause of independent examination for further work     15DA       1     This
section applies if the examiner decides under  section 15D (7)  that the
examination under that section is to be paused under this section for further
work to be carried out.         2     The examiner must notify the local
planning authority and the Secretary of State—     a     that the examiner has
taken that decision,         b     of the matters which the examiner considers
need to be dealt with in order for it to become reasonable to conclude that
the local plan is sound, and         c     of the period for which the
examination under  section 15D  is to be paused under this section (“the pause
period”).             3     The pause period may not—     a     begin earlier
than the day on which notice is given to the local planning authority under
subsection (2) , nor         b     be longer than such period as may be
prescribed             4     The examination under  section 15D  is suspended
at the beginning of the pause period.         5     During the pause period,
the local planning authority must take steps to deal with the matters notified
to them under  subsection (2) (b) .         6     Before the end of the pause
period, the local planning authority must send to the examiner—     a     a
document—     i     setting out what the authority have done during the pause
period to deal with the matters notified to them under  subsection (2) (b) ,
and         ii     setting out any modifications to the local plan that the
authority propose to make in order to make it sound or stating that the
authority do not propose to make any such modifications, and             b
any further evidence as to the soundness of the plan which the local planning
authority may have.             7     The local planning authority must
publish the document and any evidence sent under  subsection (6) .         8
If the examiner considers, at the end of the pause period, that the matters
notified to the local planning authority under  subsection (2) (b)  have not
been dealt with, with the result that there is no prospect of it becoming
reasonable to conclude that the local plan is sound, the examiner must—     a
recommend that the local plan is withdrawn, and         b     give reasons for
the recommendation.             9     If the examiner does not make a
recommendation under  subsection (8) , the examination under  section 15D  is
resumed.         10     The local planning authority must publish any
recommendation and reasons they receive under this section.
Independent examination: supplementary plans     15DB       1     A relevant
plan-making authority must submit each supplementary plan that they propose to
adopt for independent examination.         2     The supplementary plan must
be submitted to—     a     the Secretary of State, in order for the
examination to be carried out by a person appointed by the Secretary of State,
or         b     a person who, in the opinion of the relevant plan-making
authority—     i     is independent of the authority,         ii     does not
have an interest in any land that may be affected by the supplementary plan,
and         iii     has appropriate qualifications and experience.
3     In the following provisions of this section, the person appointed by the
Secretary of State under  paragraph (a)  of  subsection (2) , or (as the case
may be) the person to whom the supplementary plan is submitted under
paragraph (b)  of that subsection, is “the examiner”.         4     The
authority must also send or make available to the examiner (in addition to the
supplementary plan) such other documents (or copies of documents) and such
information as is prescribed.         5     The purpose of the independent
examination is to determine in respect of the supplementary plan—     a
whether the requirements of  section 15CC , and regulations under  subsection
(11)  of that section relating to the preparation of the plan, have been met,
and         b     whether the relevant plan-making authority have had regard
to any guidance issued by the Secretary of State which may be relevant.
6     The general rule is that the independent examination is to take the form
of written representations.         7     But the examiner must cause a
hearing to be held for the purposes of receiving oral representations in any
case where the examiner considers that the consideration of oral
representations is necessary to ensure adequate examination of an issue or
that a person has a fair chance to put a case.         8     If a hearing is
held under  subsection (7) , any person who makes representations about the
matters mentioned in  subsection (5)  must (if that person so requests) be
given the opportunity to appear before and be heard by the examiner         9
Where the examiner considers that, in all the circumstances, it would be
reasonable to conclude—     a     that the requirements mentioned in
subsection (5) (a)  have been met, and         b     the relevant plan-making
authority have had regard to any guidance issued by the Secretary of State
which may be relevant,       the examiner must recommend that the
supplementary plan is adopted and give reasons for the recommendation.
10     Subsections  (11)  and  (12)  apply where the examiner—     a     has
carried out the examination, and         b     is not required by  subsection
(9)  to recommend that the supplementary plan is adopted.             11
If the examiner considers that—     a     certain modifications of the
supplementary plan would result in it being reasonable to conclude, in all the
circumstances, that the requirements mentioned in  subsection (5) (a)  are
met, and         b     it is, in all the circumstances, reasonable to conclude
that the relevant plan-making authority have had regard to any guidance issued
by the Secretary of State which may be relevant,       the examiner must
recommend that those modifications are made and that the plan is then adopted
and give reasons for the recommendation.         12     Where the examiner has
carried out the examination and is not required by  subsection (11)  to
recommend that the supplementary plan is adopted with modifications, the
examiner must—     a     recommend that the supplementary plan is withdrawn,
and         b     give reasons for the recommendation.             13     The
relevant plan-making authority must publish the recommendations and reasons
they receive under this section.                 Withdrawal and adoption of
plans     Withdrawal of a local plan     15E       1     A local planning
authority may, at any time before they are required to submit a local plan for
independent examination under  section 15D , withdraw the plan.         2
After a local plan has been submitted for independent examination, the local
planning authority may only withdraw the plan—     a     if the person
appointed to carry out the examination recommends that they do so and the
Secretary of State has not directed that it is not to be withdrawn, or
b     the Secretary of State directs that the plan is to be withdrawn.
3     The Secretary of State may at any time—     a     after a local plan has
been submitted for independent examination under  section 15D , but         b
before it is adopted under  section 15EA ,       direct the local planning
authority to withdraw the plan.               Adoption of local plan or
supplementary plan     15EA       1     Where the person appointed to carry
out the independent examination of a local plan recommends that the plan as
originally prepared is adopted, the local planning authority may adopt it—
a     as originally prepared, or         b     with modifications that (taken
together) do not materially affect its contents.             2     Where the
person appointed to carry out the independent examination of a local plan
recommends that the plan is adopted with modifications, the local planning
authority may adopt it—     a     with those modifications, or         b
with those modifications, along with further modifications if the further
modifications (taken together) do not materially affect its contents.
3     Where the person appointed to carry out the independent examination of a
supplementary plan recommends that the plan as originally prepared is adopted,
the relevant plan-making authority may adopt it—     a     as originally
prepared, or         b     with modifications that (taken together) do not
materially affect its contents.             4     Where the person appointed
to carry out the independent examination of a supplementary plan recommends
that the plan is adopted with modifications, the relevant plan-making
authority may adopt it—     a     with those modifications, or         b
with those modifications, along with further modifications if the further
modifications (taken together) do not materially affect its contents.
5     An authority must not adopt a local plan or supplementary plan unless
they do so in accordance with subsection  (1) ,  (2) ,  (3)  or  (4) .
6     A plan is adopted by a local planning authority, or a minerals and waste
planning authority, if it is adopted by a resolution of the authority.
7     The Mayor of London adopts a supplementary plan by publishing it,
together with a statement that the plan is to have effect.
Requirement in relation to design code     Design code for whole area     15F
1     A local planning authority must ensure that, for every part of their
area, the development plan includes requirements with respect to design that
relate to development, or development of a particular description, which the
authority consider should be met for planning permission for the development
to be granted.         2     Subsection  (1)  does not require the local
planning authority to ensure—     a     that there are requirements for every
description of development for every part of their area, or         b     that
there are requirements in relation to every aspect of design.
Revocation and revision of plans     Revocation of local plans and
supplementary plans     15G       1     A local plan is revoked upon a new
local plan for the local planning authority’s area being adopted or approved
under this Part.         2     The Secretary of State—     a     may revoke a
local plan at the request of the local planning authority;         b     may
revoke a supplementary plan at the request of the relevant plan-making
authority;         c     may prescribe descriptions of supplementary plan
which may be revoked by the relevant plan-making authority themselves.
Revision of local plan     15GA       1     A local planning authority may, at
any time after their local plan has come into effect, prepare a revision of
it.         2     If the Secretary of State directs them to do so after the
local plan comes into effect, a local planning authority must prepare a
revision of the local plan, in accordance with such timetable as the Secretary
of State directs.         3     Subsection  (4)  applies if any part of the
area of the local planning authority is an area to which an enterprise zone
scheme relates.         4     As soon as practicable after the occurrence of a
relevant event—     a     the authority must consider whether their local plan
should be changed in the light of the enterprise zone scheme;         b     if
they think that any changes to their local plan are required in consequence of
the scheme they must prepare a revision to their local plan to give effect to
the changes.             5     The following are relevant events—     a
the making of an order under paragraph 5 of Schedule 32 to the Local
Government, Planning and Land Act 1980 (designation of enterprise zone);
b     the giving of notification under paragraph 11(1) of that Schedule
(approval of modification of enterprise zone scheme).             6
References to an enterprise zone and an enterprise zone scheme must be
construed in accordance with that Act.         7     This Part applies in
relation to a revision under this section as it applies in relation to a local
plan, subject to such modifications as may be prescribed.
Intervention powers in relation to plans     Power to require Secretary of
State approval     15H       1     At any time before a proposed local plan is
adopted by a local planning authority, the Secretary of State may direct the
local planning authority to submit the plan (or any part of it) to the
Secretary of State for approval.         2     At any time before a proposed
supplementary plan is adopted by a relevant plan-making authority, the
Secretary of State may direct the relevant plan-making authority to submit the
plan (or any part of it) to the Secretary of State for approval.         3
Where the Secretary of State gives a direction under  subsection (1)  or  (2)
—     a     the authority must not take any step in connection with the
adoption of the plan until the Secretary of State gives the Secretary of
State’s decision or withdraws the direction;         b     if the direction is
given, and not withdrawn, before the authority have submitted the plan for
independent examination, the Secretary of State must hold an independent
examination;         c     if the direction is given after the authority have
submitted the plan for independent examination but before the person appointed
to carry out the examination has made recommendations, and is not withdrawn
before those recommendations are made, the person must make the
recommendations to the Secretary of State.             4     Subsections  (4)
to  (12)  of  section 15D , and  section 15DA , apply to an examination of a
local plan held under  subsection (3) (b) .         5     In the case of an
examination of a supplementary plan held under  subsection (3) (b) —     a
subsections  (5)  to  (12)  of  section 15DB  apply, and         b     the
examiner is to be a person appointed by the Secretary of State.             6
The Secretary of State must publish the recommendations made to the Secretary
of State by virtue of  subsection (3) (c)  and the reasons of the person
making the recommendations.         7     In relation to a plan or part of a
plan submitted under  subsection (1)  or  (2) , the Secretary of State—     a
may approve, approve subject to modifications or reject the plan or part, and
b     must give reasons for the decision under  paragraph (a) .             8
In the exercise of any function under this section the Secretary of State—
a     may take account of any matter which the Secretary of State thinks is
relevant (regardless of whether the matter was taken account of by the
authority), and         b     must have regard to the local plan timetable and
minerals and waste plan timetable, so far as relevant.
Secretary of State powers where local planning authority are failing etc
15HA       1     This section applies if the Secretary of State thinks that—
a     a local planning authority are failing to do anything it is necessary or
expedient for them to do in connection with the preparation, adoption or
revision of a local plan,         b     a local plan or supplementary plan is,
is going to be or may be unsatisfactory, or         c     a proposed revision
of a local plan or supplementary plan will, or may, result in the plan
becoming unsatisfactory.             2     The Secretary of State may—     a
if the plan has not come into effect, take over preparation of the plan from
the relevant authority;         b     if the plan has come into effect, revise
the plan;         c     give directions to the relevant authority in relation
to—     i     the preparation or adoption of the plan (including a direction
requiring the plan to be modified in accordance with the direction);
ii     the revocation or revision of the plan (including a direction requiring
the plan to be revised in accordance with the direction or a direction
revoking the plan).                 3     The Secretary of State may appoint a
person (a “local plan commissioner”) to—     a     investigate and report to
the Secretary of State, or         b     do any of the things that may be done
under  subsection (2) , on the Secretary of State’s behalf.             4
Subsections  (5)  to  (10)  apply if preparation of the plan is taken over
under  subsection (2) (a)  or  (3) (b) .         5     The Secretary of State
or (as the case may be) the local plan commissioner must publish a document
setting out—     a     their timetable for preparing the plan, and         b
if they intend to depart from anything specified in a local plan timetable in
relation to the plan, details of how they intend to depart from it.
6     The Secretary of State must—     a     hold an independent examination
of the plan or (as the case may be) direct the local plan commissioner to
submit the plan for independent examination, or         b     direct the
relevant authority to submit the plan for independent examination under
section 15D  or (as the case may be)  15DB .             7     Subsections
(4)  to  (12)  of  section 15D , and  section 15DA , apply to an examination
of a local plan held under  subsection (6) (a) , reading references to the
local planning authority as references to the Secretary of State or (as the
case may be) the local plan commissioner.         8     In the case of an
examination of a supplementary plan held under  subsection (6) (a) —     a
subsections  (5)  to  (12)  of  section 15DB  apply, reading references to the
relevant plan-making authority as references to the Secretary of State or (as
the case may be) the local plan commissioner, and         b     the examiner
is to be a person appointed by the Secretary of State or the local plan
commissioner.             9     The Secretary of State must either—     a
publish the recommendations and reasons of the person appointed to hold the
examination, or         b     give directions to the relevant authority or
local plan commissioner in relation to publication of those recommendations
and reasons.             10     The Secretary of State or local plan
commissioner may then—     a     approve the plan or approve it subject to
modifications,         b     direct the relevant authority to consider
adopting the plan, or         c     reject the plan.             11
Subsections  (5)  to  (10)  (and the provisions applied by them) apply in
relation to a revision to a plan under  subsection (2) (b)  or  (3) (b)  as
they apply to a plan prepared under  subsection (2) (a)  or  (3) (b) .
12     In the exercise of any function under this section, the Secretary of
State or local plan commissioner may take account of any matter which the
Secretary of State or local plan commissioner thinks is relevant (regardless
of whether the matter was taken account of by the relevant authority).
13     The Secretary of State must give reasons for anything the Secretary of
State does in pursuance of subsection  (2)  or  (10) .         14     A local
plan commissioner must give reasons for anything the commissioner does in
pursuance of  subsection (3) (b)  or  (10) .         15     In this section
“relevant authority”—     a     in relation to a local plan, means the local
planning authority, or         b     in relation to a supplementary plan,
means the relevant plan-making authority.                   Secretary of State
powers where local planning authority fails to ensure design code     15HB
1     This section applies where the Secretary of State considers that a local
planning authority are unlikely to comply, or have not complied, with the
requirement in  section 15F (1) .         2     The Secretary of State may
give directions to the local planning authority as to the steps they must take
to comply with that requirement, including directions as to the preparation,
adoption or revision of their local plan or one or more supplementary plans.
3     The Secretary of State must give reasons for any directions given under
this section.               Liability for Secretary of State’s costs of
intervention     15HC       1     The Secretary of State may require the
relevant authority to—     a     reimburse the Secretary of State for any
expenditure incurred by the Secretary of State in, or in connection with,
exercising a function under any of sections  15H  to  15HB , or         b
pay any fees and expenses of a local plan commissioner appointed under
section 15HA (3) .             2     Where a function under any of those
sections is exercised in relation to a joint local plan or joint supplementary
plan, the Secretary of State may apportion liability for such expenditure on
such basis as the Secretary of State thinks just and reasonable between the
authorities who are jointly preparing, or have jointly prepared, the plan.
3     In  subsection (1)  “ relevant authority ” means—     a     where the
function is exercised, or the local plan commissioner is appointed, in
relation a local plan, the local planning authority;         b     where the
function is exercised, or the local plan commissioner is appointed, in
relation to a supplementary plan, the relevant plan-making authority.
Default powers exercisable by Mayor of London, combined authority, combined
county authority or county council     15HD     Schedule A1 (default powers
exercisable by Mayor of London, combined authority, combined county authority
or county council) has effect.           Temporary direction pending possible
use of intervention or default powers     15HE       1     If the Secretary of
State is considering whether to take action under  section 15H ,  15HA  or
15HB  or Schedule A1 in relation to a local plan or a supplementary plan, the
Secretary of State may direct the local planning authority or (as the case may
be) the relevant plan-making authority not to take any step, or not to take a
step specified in the direction, in connection with the plan—     a     until
a time or event (if any) specified in the direction, or         b     until
the direction is withdrawn.             2     A plan to which a direction
under this section relates has no effect while the direction is in force.
3     A direction given under this section in relation to a plan ceases to
have effect if—     a     the Secretary of State—     i     gives a direction
under  section 15H ,  15HA (2) (c)  or  (10) (b)  or  15HB (2)  or paragraph
8(5) of Schedule A1 in relation to the plan, or         ii     approves the
plan under section  15HA (10) (a) ,             b     a local plan
commissioner—     i     gives a direction under section  15HA (3) (b) , or
ii     approves the plan under section  15HA (10) (a) ,             c     the
Mayor of London does anything under paragraph 2(4) of Schedule A1,         d
a combined authority does anything under paragraph 6(4) of that Schedule, or
e     a county council does anything under paragraph 7C(4) of that Schedule.
Joint plans     Joint local plans by agreement or direction     15I       1
A joint local plan is a local plan prepared jointly by two or more local
planning authorities for their combined areas.         2     Two or more local
planning authorities may agree to prepare a joint local plan (a “joint local
plan agreement”).         3     The Secretary of State may direct two or more
local planning authorities to prepare a joint local plan (a “joint local plan
direction”).         4     The Secretary of State may give a joint local plan
direction to a local planning authority whether or not the authority’s local
plan timetable specifies that their local plan for their area is to be a joint
local plan.         5     The Secretary of State may give a joint local plan
direction only if the Secretary of State considers that to do so will
facilitate the more effective planning of the development and use of land in
the area of one or more of the local planning authorities in question.
6     A joint local plan direction may specify the timetable for preparation
of the joint local plan.         7     The Secretary of State must, when
giving a joint local plan direction, notify the local planning authorities to
which it applies of the reasons for giving it.         8     If the Secretary
of State gives a joint local plan direction, the Secretary of State may direct
the local planning authorities to which it is given to amend their local plan
timetables to take account of the direction.         9     The Secretary of
State may modify or withdraw a joint local plan direction by notice in writing
to the authorities to which it was given.         10     The Secretary of
State must, when modifying or withdrawing a joint local plan direction, notify
the local planning authorities to which it was given of the reasons for the
modification or withdrawal.               Joint local plans: application of
Part     15IA       1     This section applies in a case where—     a     a
joint local plan agreement is made, or         b     a joint local plan
direction is given.             2     This Part applies for the purposes of
any step which may be, or is required to be, taken in relation to the joint
local plan as it applies for the purposes of any step which may be, or is
required to be, taken in relation to a local plan.         3     For the
purposes of  subsection (2)  anything which must be done by or in relation to
a local planning authority in connection with a local plan must be done by or
in relation to each of the relevant authorities in connection with the joint
local plan.         4     Subsections  (2)  and  (3)  are subject to such
modifications of this Part, as it applies to joint local plans, as may be
prescribed.         5     If the relevant authorities include one or more
authorities in relation to whose area a spatial development strategy is
operative, the requirements of this Part in relation to the spatial
development strategy, which apply to or in respect of local plans, apply—
a     to or in respect of the joint local plan, and         b     in relation
to such of the area to which the joint local plan relates as the spatial
development strategy is operative in relation to.             6     In this
section “the relevant authorities” are the local planning authorities who are
to prepare a joint local plan in accordance with the joint local plan
agreement or joint local plan direction.               Joint local plan
agreement or direction: withdrawal or modification     15IB       1     This
section applies if—     a     a relevant authority withdraw from a joint local
plan agreement,         b     the Secretary of State withdraws a joint local
plan direction, or         c     the Secretary of State modifies a joint local
plan direction so that it ceases to apply to one or more of the relevant
authorities to which it was given.             2     Any step taken in
relation to the joint local plan must be treated as a step taken by—     a
a relevant authority for the purposes of any corresponding local plan prepared
by them;         b     two or more other relevant authorities for the purposes
of any corresponding joint local plan.             3     Any independent
examination of the joint local plan must be suspended.         4     If,
before the end of the period prescribed for the purposes of this subsection, a
relevant authority request the Secretary of State to do so, the Secretary of
State may direct that—     a     the examination is resumed in relation to—
i     any corresponding local plan prepared by a relevant authority, or
ii     any corresponding joint local plan prepared by two or more of the
relevant authorities;             b     any step taken for the purposes of the
suspended examination has effect for the purposes of the resumed examination.
5     The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision as to what is a
corresponding local plan or a corresponding joint local plan for the purposes
of this section.         6     For the purposes of this section references to
the joint local plan are to the joint local plan to which the joint local plan
agreement or (as the case may be) joint local plan direction related.
7     In this section “the relevant authorities” are the local planning
authorities—     a     who were party to the joint local plan agreement
immediately before the authority mentioned in  subsection (1) (a)  withdrew
from it, or         b     to whom the joint local plan direction applied
immediately before it was withdrawn or modified by the Secretary of State.
Joint supplementary plans by agreement     15IC       1     Two or more local
planning authorities may agree to prepare a joint supplementary plan under
section 15CC , in which case in relation to that plan references in
subsection (3)  of that section to the area of the local planning authority
are to be read as references to the combined areas of the relevant
authorities.         2     Two or more minerals and waste planning authorities
may agree to prepare a joint supplementary plan under  section 15CC , in which
case in relation to that plan references in  subsection (5)  of that section
to the relevant area are to be read as references to the combined relevant
areas of the relevant authorities.         3     This Part applies for the
purposes of any step which may be, or is required to be, taken in relation to
the joint supplementary plan as it applies for the purposes of any step which
may be, or is required to be, taken in relation to a supplementary plan.
4     For the purposes of  subsection (3)  anything which must be done by or
in relation to a local planning authority or (as the case may be) a minerals
and waste planning authority in connection with a supplementary plan must be
done by or in relation to each of the relevant authorities in connection with
the joint supplementary plan.         5     Subsections  (3)  and  (4)  are
subject to such modifications of this Part, as it applies to joint
supplementary plans, as may be prescribed.         6     If the relevant
authorities include one or more authorities in relation to whose area a
spatial development strategy is operative, the requirements of this Part in
relation to the spatial development strategy, which apply to or in respect of
supplementary plans, apply—     a     to or in respect of the joint
supplementary plan, and         b     in relation to such of the area to which
the joint supplementary plan relates as the spatial development strategy is
operative in relation to.             7     Subsections  (8)  to  (10)  apply
if a relevant authority withdraws from an agreement mentioned in  subsection
(1)  or  (2) .         8     Any step taken in relation to the joint
supplementary plan must be treated as a step taken by—     a     a relevant
authority for the purposes of any corresponding supplementary plan prepared by
them;         b     two or more other relevant authorities for the purposes of
any corresponding joint supplementary plan.             9     Any independent
examination of the joint supplementary plan must be suspended.         10
If, before the end of the period prescribed for the purposes of this
subsection, any of the relevant authorities request the Secretary of State to
do so, the Secretary of State may direct that—     a     the examination is
resumed in relation to—     i     any corresponding supplementary plan
prepared by any of the relevant authorities, or         ii     any
corresponding joint supplementary plan prepared by two or more of the relevant
authorities;             b     any step taken for the purposes of the
suspended examination has effect for the purposes of the resumed examination.
11     The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision as to what is
a corresponding supplementary plan or a corresponding joint supplementary plan
for the purposes of this section.         12     A joint supplementary plan is
a supplementary plan prepared jointly by two or more relevant authorities in
accordance with this section.         13     In this section “ the relevant
authorities ” means the authorities who enter into the agreement mentioned in
subsection (1)  or (as the case may be)  (2) .                 Joint
committees     Joint committees     15J       1     This section applies if
one or more local planning authorities agree with one or more county councils
in relation to any area of such a council for which there is also a district
council to establish a joint committee to be, for the purposes of this Part,
the local planning authority—     a     for the area specified in the
agreement;         b     in respect of such purposes as are so specified.
2     The Secretary of State may by regulations constitute a joint committee
to be the local planning authority—     a     for the area;         b     in
respect of those purposes.             3     Such regulations—     a     must
specify the authority or authorities and county council or councils (the
“constituent authorities”) which are to constitute the joint committee;
b     may make provision as to such other matters as the Secretary of State
thinks are necessary or expedient to facilitate the exercise by the joint
committee of its functions.             4     Regulations under  subsection
(3) (b)  may include provision—     a     corresponding to provisions relating
to joint committees in Part 6 of the Local Government Act 1972;         b
applying (with or without modifications) such enactments relating to local
authorities as the Secretary of State thinks appropriate;         c
modifying the application of this Part in relation to the joint committee.
5     For the purposes of  subsection (4)  a local authority is any of the
following—     a     a county council;         b     a district council;
c     a London borough council.             6     If regulations under this
section are annulled in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament—     a     with effect from the date of the resolution the joint
committee ceases to be the local planning authority as mentioned in
subsection (2) ;         b     anything which the joint committee (as the
local planning authority) was required to do for the purposes of this Part
must be done for their area by each local planning authority which were a
constituent authority of the joint committee;         c     each of those
local planning authorities must revise their local plan timetable accordingly.
7     Nothing in this section or section  15JA  confers on a local planning
authority constituted by virtue of regulations under this section any function
in relation to section 13 or 14 (survey of area).         8     This section
and section  15JA  are subject to the requirement in  section 15C (2)  that
only one local plan may have effect in relation to the area of a local
planning authority (including one constituted by virtue of regulations under
this section) at any one time.         9     The policies contained in any
local plan or supplementary plan adopted by the joint committee in the
exercise of its functions under this Part must be taken for the purposes of
the planning Acts to be the policies of each of the constituent authorities
which are a local planning authority.         10     Subsection  (11)  applies
to any function—     a     which is conferred on a local planning authority
(within the meaning of the principal Act) under or by virtue of the planning
Acts, and         b     which relates to the authority’s local plan timetable,
local plan or supplementary plan.             11     If the authority is a
constituent authority of a joint committee references to the authority’s local
plan timetable, local plan or supplementary plan must be construed, in
relation to that function, as including references to the timetable or plan of
the joint committee.               Joint committees: additional functions
15JA       1     This section applies if the constituent authorities of a
joint committee agree that the joint committee is to be, for the purposes of
this Part, the local planning authority for any area or purpose which is not
the subject of—     a     regulations under  section 15J , or         b     an
earlier agreement under this section.             2     Each of the
constituent authorities and the joint committee must revise their local plan
timetable in accordance with the agreement.         3     With effect from the
date when the last such revision takes effect the joint committee is, for the
purposes of this Part, the local planning authority for the area or purpose
mentioned in  subsection (1) .               Dissolution of joint committee
15JB       1     This section applies if a constituent authority requests the
Secretary of State to revoke regulations constituting a joint committee as the
local planning authority for any area or in respect of any purpose.         2
The Secretary of State may revoke the regulations.         3     If the
Secretary of State does so, any step taken by the joint committee in relation
to a local plan timetable, local plan or supplementary plan must be treated
for the purposes of any corresponding timetable or plan as a step taken by a
successor authority.         4     A successor authority is—     a     a local
planning authority which were a constituent authority of the joint committee;
b     a joint committee constituted by regulations under  section 15J  for an
area which does not include an area which was not part of the area of the
joint committee mentioned in  subsection (1) .             5     If the
revocation takes effect at a time when an independent examination is being
carried out in relation to a local plan or supplementary plan in relation to
which the joint committee is the local planning authority the examination must
be suspended.         6     But if, before the end of the period prescribed
for the purposes of this subsection, a successor authority falling within
subsection (4) (a)  requests the Secretary of State to do so, the Secretary of
State may direct that—     a     the examination is resumed in relation to the
corresponding plan;         b     any step taken for the purposes of the
suspended examination has effect for the purposes of the resumed examination.
7     The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision as to what is a
corresponding timetable or plan.                 Neighbourhood priorities
statements     Neighbourhood priorities statements     15K       1     Any
qualifying body may make a statement, to be known as a “neighbourhood
priorities statement”, which summarises what the body considers to be the
principal needs and prevailing views, of the community in the neighbourhood
area in relation to which the body is authorised, in respect of local matters.
2     “Local matters” are such matters as the Secretary of State may
prescribe, relating to—     a     development, or the management or use of
land, in or affecting the neighbourhood area,         b     housing in the
neighbourhood area,         c     the natural environment in the neighbourhood
area,         d     the economy in the neighbourhood area,         e
public spaces in the neighbourhood area,         f     the infrastructure,
facilities or services available in the neighbourhood area, or         g
other features of the neighbourhood area.             3     A qualifying body
may modify or revoke a neighbourhood priorities statement that has effect, for
the time being, for the neighbourhood area in relation to which the body is
authorised.         4     A neighbourhood priorities statement has effect from
the time it is published by a relevant local planning authority and ceases to
have effect upon such an authority publishing a notice stating that it has
been revoked by a qualifying body.         5     A modification of a
neighbourhood priorities statement has effect from the time the modification,
or modified statement, is published by a relevant local planning authority.
6     Regulations made by the Secretary of State may impose requirements which
must be met for a neighbourhood priorities statement, or any modification or
revocation of such a statement, to be made or published.         7
Regulations under  subsection (6)  or  section 15LE (2) (k)  may provide that
a requirement may be met, or (as the case may be) procedure may be complied
with, by virtue of things done by a parish council, or other organisation or
body, before it becomes a qualifying body.         8     Regulations under
subsection (6)  and  section 15LE  must (between them)—     a     require a
qualifying body to publish any proposed neighbourhood priorities statement, so
that people who live, work or carry on business in the neighbourhood area to
which the statement relates can comment on the proposed statement before the
body makes the statement,         b     require a qualifying body to publish
any proposed material modification of a neighbourhood priorities statement, so
that people who live, work or carry on business in the neighbourhood area to
which the statement relates can comment on the proposed modification before
the body makes the modification,         c     require a relevant local
planning authority to publish a neighbourhood priorities statement, if the
statement is made in accordance with this section and any regulations made
under this Part,         d     require a relevant local planning authority to
publish a notice of the revocation of a neighbourhood priorities statement, if
the statement has been revoked in accordance with this section and any
regulations made under this Part, and         e     require a relevant local
planning authority, if a modification of a neighbourhood priorities statement
is made in accordance with this section and any regulations made under this
Part, to publish the modification or a modified statement.             9
Subsection  (10)  applies if, as a result of a modification of a neighbourhood
area under section 61G(6) of the principal Act, a neighbourhood priorities
statement relates to more than one neighbourhood area.         10     Any
modification, or revocation, of the neighbourhood priorities statement as it
has effect for one of those areas does not affect the statement as it has
effect in relation to the other area or areas.         11     Regulations
under section 61G(11) of the principal Act (designation of areas as
neighbourhood areas) may include provision about the consequences of the
modification of designations—     a     on proposals for neighbourhood
priorities statements, or on neighbourhood priorities statements, that have
already been made, or         b     on proposals for the modification of
neighbourhood priorities statements, or on modifications of neighbourhood
priorities statements, that have already been made.             12     A
authority mentioned in  subsection (13)  is a “ relevant local planning
authority ”, in relation to a neighbourhood priorities statement, if some or
all of the neighbourhood area to which the statement relates falls within the
area of the authority.         13     The authorities are—     a     a
district council,         b     a London borough council,         c     a
metropolitan district council,         d     a county council in relation to
an area in England for which there is no district council, or         e
the Broads Authority.             14     In this section—         “ material
modification ”, in relation to a neighbourhood priorities statement, means a
modification which a relevant local planning authority considers—
materially affects a summary, in the statement, of any needs or views, of the
community in the neighbourhood area, in relation to a local matter, and
does not only correct an obvious error or omission;                 “
neighbourhood area ” has the meaning given by sections 61G and 61I(1) of the
principal Act;           “ qualifying body ” means a parish council or an
organisation or body designated as a neighbourhood forum, which is authorised
to act in relation to a neighbourhood area as a result of section 61F of the
principal Act (whether or not as applied by section 38C of this Act).
General     Exclusion of certain representations     15L       1     This
section applies to any representation or objection in respect of anything
which is done or is proposed to be done in pursuance of—     a     an order or
scheme under section 10, 14, 16, 18, 106(1) or (3) or 108(1) of the Highways
Act 1980;         b     an order under section 1 of the New Towns Act 1981.
2     If the Secretary of State or a local planning authority thinks that a
representation made in relation to a local plan or supplementary plan is in
substance a representation or objection to which this section applies the
Secretary of State or (as the case may be) the authority may disregard it.
Development corporations: power to disapply provisions     15LA     The
Secretary of State may direct that the provisions of—     a     this Part, or
b     any particular regulations made under section 14A,       do not apply to
the area of an urban development corporation or a development corporation
established under the New Towns Act 1981.           Guidance     15LB       1
In the exercise of any function conferred by or under this Part a relevant
plan-making authority must have regard to any guidance issued by the Secretary
of State.         2     The Secretary of State must issue guidance for local
planning authorities on how their local plan and any supplementary plans
(taken as a whole) should address housing needs that result from old age or
disability.               Monitoring information     15LC       1     The
Secretary of State may prescribe information within  subsection (3)  which
each local planning authority must make available to the public.         2
The Secretary of State may prescribe information within  subsection (3)  which
each local planning authority must provide to the Secretary of State.
3     Information is within this subsection if it relates to—     a     the
implementation of the local planning authority’s local plan timetable;
b     the implementation of policies in their local plan and any supplementary
plans they have prepared;         c     the implementation of any policies
which relate to the authority’s area, in any spatial development strategy that
is operative in relation to their area;         d     the extent to which
specified environmental outcomes (within the meaning of  Part 6  of the
Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023) are being delivered in relation to the
authority’s area.             4     The information must be in such form, and
made available or provided in such manner, as may be prescribed.
Policies map     15LD       1     Each local planning authority must ensure
that a map, to be known as a “policies map”, is prepared, and kept up to date,
which illustrates the geographical application of the development plan for the
authority’s area.         2     The map prepared and kept up to date under
subsection (1) —     a     must be in such form, and have such content, as may
be prescribed,         b     must be revised at such times, or in such
circumstances, as may be prescribed, and         c     must be made available
to the public.                   Regulations     15LE       1     The
Secretary of State may by regulations make provision in connection with the
exercise by any person of a function conferred by or under this Part.
2     The regulations may, in particular, include provision as to—     a
the form and content of a joint spatial development strategy;         b
the documents (if any) which must accompany a joint spatial development
strategy;         c     the procedure to be followed in connection with the
preparation, adoption, publication, review, alteration or withdrawal of a
joint spatial development strategy or in connection with any review under
section  15AE (2) ;         d     the procedure to be followed in the
preparation, adoption, review, revision or withdrawal of local plans or
supplementary plans;         e     requirements about the giving of notice and
publicity;         f     requirements about inspection by the public of a
local plan, supplementary plan or any other document;         g
consultation with, or participation by, the public or any prescribed body or
other person in connection with anything done under this Part, including
provision imposing requirements for consultation or participation or as to the
nature and extent of the consultation or participation that may or must take
place;         h     the making of representations about any matter to be
included in a local plan or supplementary plan;         i     consideration of
any such representations;         j     the remuneration and allowances
payable to a person appointed to provide observations or advice under  section
15CA (3) , carry out a public or independent examination under this Part or
act as a local plan commissioner under  section 15HA (3) ;         k     the
procedure to be followed in the preparation, making, modification, revocation,
replacement or publication of a neighbourhood priorities statement;         l
the form, and content, of a neighbourhood priorities statement;         m
the determination of the time by or at which anything must be done for the
purposes of this Part;         n     the manner of publication of any draft,
report or other document published under this Part;         o     monitoring
the exercise by local planning authorities of their functions under this Part;
p     the making of reasonable charges for the provision of copies of
documents required by or under this Part.             3     Regulations under
subsection (2) (l)  may provide for the form or content of a neighbourhood
priorities statement to be determined by the Secretary of State.         4
Regulations under this Part may make different provision for different areas.
Meaning of “local planning authority” etc     15LF       1     This section
applies for the purposes of this Part.         2     Each of the following is
a local planning authority for their area—     a     a district council;
b     a London borough council;         c     a metropolitan district council;
d     a county council in relation to any area in England for which there is
no district council.             3     A National Park authority is the local
planning authority for the whole of its area, in place of any authority who
would otherwise be a local planning authority for any part of that area under
subsection (2) .         4     The Broads Authority is the local planning
authority for the Broads, in place of any authority who would otherwise be a
local planning authority for any part of the Broads under  subsection (2) .
5     Where a relevant order provides that a development corporation is to be
the local planning authority for an area for some or all purposes of this
Part, the development corporation is the local planning authority for that
area and those purposes in place of any authority who would otherwise be the
local planning authority for that area and those purposes.         6     In
subsection  (5) —         “ development corporation ” means an urban
development corporation, a development corporation established under the New
Towns Act 1981 or a Mayoral development corporation;           “ relevant
order ”—         in relation to an urban development corporation, means an
order under section 149 (1A)  of the Local Government, Planning and Land Act
1980;           in relation to a development corporation established under the
New Towns Act 1981, means an order under section  7A (2) (b)  of that Act;
in relation to a Mayoral development corporation, means an order under section
198(2) of the Localism Act 2011.                     7     Subsection  (5)  is
subject to subsections  (8)  and  (9) .         8     Subsection  (9)  applies
where a designation order under section 13 of the Housing and Regeneration Act
2008 (power to make designation orders) provides that the Homes and
Communities Agency is to be the local planning authority—     a     for an
area specified in the order, and         b     for all purposes of this Part
or any such purposes so specified.             9     The Homes and Communities
Agency is the local planning authority for the area and the purposes concerned
in place of any authority who would otherwise be the local planning authority
for that area and those purposes.         10     See also  section 15J  under
which joint committees can be constituted to be local planning authorities for
the purposes of this Part.         11     References (other than in this
section) to a local planning authority’s area are to the area for which they
are the local planning authority in accordance with this Part.
Meaning of “minerals and waste planning authority” etc     15LG       1
This section has effect for the purposes of this Part.         2     Subject
to  subsection (3) —     a     a county council in England is the minerals and
waste planning authority for their area,         b     a London borough
council is the minerals and waste planning authority for their area,         c
a metropolitan district council is the minerals and waste planning authority
for their area, and         d     a district council is the minerals and waste
planning authority for any part of their area for which there is no county
council.             3     A National Park authority is the minerals and waste
planning authority for the whole of its area, in place of any authority who
would otherwise be a minerals and waste planning authority for any part of
that area under  subsection (2) .         4     Where a relevant order
provides that a development corporation is to be the minerals and waste
planning authority for an area for some or all purposes of this Part, the
development corporation is the minerals and waste planning authority for that
area and those purposes in place of any authority who would otherwise be the
minerals and waste planning authority for that area and those purposes.
5     In subsection  (4) —         “ development corporation ” means an urban
development corporation, a development corporation established under the New
Towns Act 1981 or a Mayoral development corporation;           “ relevant
order ”—         in relation to an urban development corporation, means an
order under section 149 (2A)  of the Local Government, Planning and Land Act
1980;           in relation to a development corporation established under the
New Towns Act 1981, means an order under section  7A (6)  of that Act;
in relation to a Mayoral development corporation, means an order under section
198(2) of the Localism Act 2011.                     6     “ Relevant area ”,
in relation to a minerals and waste planning authority, means the area for
which the authority are the minerals and waste planning authority in
accordance with this section.               Interpretation     15LH       1
This section has effect for the purposes of this Part.         2     Each of
the following is a relevant plan-making authority—     a     the Mayor of
London;         b     a local planning authority;         c     a minerals and
waste planning authority.             3     In this Part (unless a contrary
intention appears)—         “ affordable housing ” means—         social
housing within the meaning of Part 2 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008,
and           any other description of housing that may be prescribed;
“ constituent authority ”, in relation to a joint committee, must be construed
in accordance with  section 15J (3) ;           “ joint local plan ” must be
construed in accordance with  section 15I (1) ;           “ joint local plan
agreement ” must be construed in accordance with  section 15I (2) ;
“ joint local plan direction ” must be construed in accordance with  section
15I (3) ;           “ joint spatial development strategy ” means a strategy
adopted by local planning authorities under section  15AD  or, as the context
requires, a strategy in preparation further to an agreement under section  15A
(1) ;           “ joint supplementary plan ” must be construed in accordance
with  section 15IC ;           “ local nature recovery strategy ” means a
local nature recovery strategy under section 104 of the Environment Act 2021;
“ local plan ” must be construed in accordance with  section 15C ;           “
local plan timetable ” must be construed in accordance with  section 15B ;
“ local planning authority ” must be construed in accordance with  section
15LF ;           “ minerals and waste development ” means development which is
a county matter within the meaning of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
principal Act (ignoring sub-paragraph (1)(i) of that paragraph);           “
minerals and waste plan ” must be construed in accordance with  section 15CB ;
“ minerals and waste plan timetable ” must be construed in accordance with
section 15BB ;           “ minerals and waste planning authority ” must be
construed in accordance with  section 15LG ;           “ neighbourhood
priorities statement ” must be construed in accordance with  section 15K ;
“ relevant area ” must be construed in accordance with  section 15LG ;
“ relevant plan-making authority ” must be construed in accordance with
subsection (2) ;           “ spatial development strategy ” means (except in
the context of more specific expressions)—         the spatial development
strategy for London,           a spatial development strategy adopted by a
combined authority established under section 103 of the Local Democracy,
Economic Development and Construction Act 2009, or           a joint spatial
development strategy;                 “ spatial development strategy for
London ” means the strategy adopted by the Mayor of London under Part 8 of the
Greater London Authority Act 1999;           “ supplementary plan ” must be
construed in accordance with  section 15CC .

  Minor and consequential amendments in connection with  Chapter 2  of  Part 3

Section 101

##### Local Government Act 1972

1

In section 138C of the Local Government Act 1972 (application of sections 138A
and 138B to other authorities), in subsections (1)(s) and (2)(c), for “an
order under section 29” substitute  “regulations made under  section 15J ” .

##### Town and Country Planning Act 1990

2

TCPA 1990 is amended as follows.

3

In section 2A (the Mayor of London: applications of potential strategic
importance), in subsection (6)(aa), for “development plan document” substitute
“local plan, document which is or forms part of a minerals and waste plan or
supplementary plan” .

4

In section 59A (development orders: permission in principle)—

4.a

in paragraph (b) of subsection (3)—

4.a.i

for “development plan document” substitute  “local plan or supplementary plan”
;

4.a.ii

for “section 37” substitute  “section  15LH ” ;

4.b

after that paragraph insert—

4.b.ba

a document which is, or forms part of, a minerals and waste plan within the
meaning of Part 2 of the 2004 Act (“a minerals and waste plan document”);

4.c

in subsection (5)(b), for “development plan document” substitute  “local plan,
minerals and waste plan document or supplementary plan” .

5

In section 70(4) (determination of applications: definitions), in paragraph
(l) of the definition of “relevant authority”, for “section 29” substitute  “
section 15J ” .

6

In section 74 (directions etc as to method of dealing with applications), in
subsection (1BB) for “development plan document” substitute  “local plan,
document which is or forms part of a minerals and waste plan or supplementary
plan” .

7

7.1

Section 303A (responsibility of local planning authorities for costs of
holding certain inquiries etc) is amended as follows.

7.2

In subsection (1A)—

7.2.a

before paragraph (a) insert—

7.2.a.za

a public examination under  section 15AC  of the Planning and Compulsory
Purchase Act 2004;

;

7.2.b

in paragraph (a), for “20, 21(5)(b), 27(3)(a)” substitute  “ 15D ,  15DB ,
15H (3) (b) ,  15HA (6) (a) ” .

7.3

In subsection (9A)—

7.3.a

in paragraph (a)—

7.3.a.i

after “submit a” insert  “strategy, plan or” ;

7.3.a.ii

after “for” insert  “public or” ;

7.3.b

in paragraph (b), for “27(2)(a)” substitute  “ 15HA (3) (b)  or  15HA (6) (a)
” .

7.4

After subsection (9A) insert—

7.4.9B

In a case where a qualifying procedure is carried out in relation to a plan
that is prepared jointly by two or more local planning authorities under Part
2 of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004, the Secretary of State may
for the purposes of this section apportion the amount that may be recovered in
accordance with subsections (4) to (6) between those authorities, on such
basis as the Secretary of State considers just and reasonable.

7.5

In subsection (10), before paragraph (a) insert—

7.5.za

any reference to an independent examination under  section 15D  of the
Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 includes a pause of such an
examination under  section 15DA  of that Act;

.

7.6

After subsection (11) insert—

7.6.12

In this section references to a local planning authority are, in relation to a
local planning authority in England, to a local planning authority for the
purposes of Part 2 of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 and
include a minerals and waste planning authority for the purposes of that Part.

8

In section 306 (contributions by local authorities and statutory undertakers),
in subsection (2)(ab)—

8.a

after “by a” insert  “minerals and waste planning authority or” ;

8.b

after “duty of” insert  “minerals and waste planning authority or” .

9

In section 324 (rights of entry), in subsection (1)(a), for “local development
document” substitute  “local plan, document which is or forms part of a
minerals and waste plan or supplementary plan” .

10

In section 336 (interpretation), after the definition of “mortgage” insert—

      “ national development management policy ” must be construed in
accordance with  section 38ZA  of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act
2004;

.

11

11.1

Schedule 1 (local planning authorities: distribution of functions) is amended
as follows.

11.2

In paragraph 7, for sub-paragraph (10) substitute—

11.2.10

A relevant county policy is a policy contained in a relevant document, plan or
revision which—

11.2.10.a

has been submitted for independent examination under Part 2 of the 2004 Act
and has not been withdrawn, or

11.2.10.b

has been adopted, approved or made for the purposes of that Part.

11.2.10A

In sub-paragraph  (10) —

11.2.10A.a

a “ relevant document, plan or revision ” means—

11.2.10A.a.i

a document prepared to be, or to form part of, the county planning authority’s
minerals and waste plan for the purposes of Part 2 of the 2004 Act,

11.2.10A.a.ii

a revision of a document which is, or forms part of, the county planning
authority’s minerals and waste plan for the purposes of that Part,

11.2.10A.a.iii

a supplementary plan prepared by the county planning authority acting as a
minerals and waste planning authority under that Part, or

11.2.10A.a.iv

a revision of a such a supplementary plan;

11.2.10A.b

the reference to submission of a relevant document, plan or revision for
independent examination under Part 2 of the 2004 Act is to be taken to include
any case where an independent examination is held under that Part.

11.3

In paragraph 8(3E), in paragraph (b) of the definition of “relevant
neighbourhood development plan”, for “(3)” substitute  “(2A)” .

11.4

In paragraph 8A(2), in paragraph (b) of the definition of “relevant
neighbourhood development plan”, for “(3)” substitute  “(2A)” .

12

In Schedule 13 (blighted land), in paragraph 1A—

12.a

for “development plan document”, in the first place it appears, substitute
“local plan, minerals and waste plan or supplementary plan” ;

12.b

for Note (2) substitute—

12.b.2

For the purposes of this paragraph a local plan is a local plan, or revision
of such a plan, which—

12.b.2.a

has been submitted for independent examination under Part 2 of the Planning
and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 (in this paragraph, “the 2004 Act”) and has
not been withdrawn, or

12.b.2.b

has been adopted, approved or made for the purposes of that Part.

12.b.2ZA

For the purposes of this paragraph a minerals and waste plan is a document
prepared to be or to form part of a minerals and waste plan, or a revision of
such a document, which—

12.b.2ZA.a

has been submitted for independent examination under Part 2 of the 2004 Act
and has not been withdrawn, or

12.b.2ZA.b

has been adopted, approved or made for the purposes of that Part.

12.b.2ZB

For the purposes of this paragraph a supplementary plan is a supplementary
plan, or a revision of such a plan, which—

12.b.2ZB.a

has been submitted for independent examination under Part 2 of the 2004 Act
and has not been withdrawn, or

12.b.2ZB.b

has been adopted, approved or made for the purposes of that Part.

;

12.c

omit Note (3);

12.d

for Note (4) substitute—

12.d.4

In Notes  (2)  to  (2ZB)  the references to submission of a local plan, a
supplementary plan, a document or a revision for independent examination under
Part 2 of the 2004 Act are to be taken to include any case where an
independent examination is held under that Part.

##### Greater London Authority Act 1999

13

GLAA 1999 is amended as follows.

14

In section 338 (examination in public), at the end of subsection (1) insert
“in relation to the proposed strategy” .

15

In section 346 (monitoring and data collection), in paragraph (b), for “local
development documents” substitute  “local plan, any document which is or forms
part of a minerals and waste plan and any supplementary plans” .

16

In section 347 (functional bodies to have regard to strategy)—

16.a

for “section 24” substitute  “sections  15CA (2)  and  15CC (7) ” ;

16.b

for “requires certain of a Mayoral development corporation’s documents”
substitute  “require local plans, minerals and waste plans and supplementary
plans” .

##### Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004

17

PCPA 2004 is amended as follows.

18

For section 14 (survey of area: county councils) substitute—

######### Survey of area: minerals and waste planning authorities and county councils

18.14

18.14.1

A minerals and waste planning authority must keep under review the matters
which may be expected to affect minerals and waste development in the relevant
area or the planning of such development.

18.14.2

Subsections (2) to (5) of section 13 apply for the purposes of subsection (1)
as they apply for the purposes of that section and—

18.14.2.a

references to the local planning authority must be construed as references to
the minerals and waste planning authority,

18.14.2.b

references to the area of the local planning authority must be construed as
references to the relevant area, and

18.14.2.c

references to the local planning authority for a neighbouring area must be
construed as references to—

18.14.2.c.i

in the case of a neighbouring area in England, the minerals and waste planning
authority for that area, or

18.14.2.c.ii

in the case of a neighbouring area in Wales, the local planning authority for
that area for the purposes of Part 6.

18.14.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations require or (in a particular case)
may direct a county council to keep under review in relation to their area
such of the matters mentioned in section 13(1) to (4) as the Secretary of
State prescribes or directs (as the case may be).

18.14.4

For the purposes of subsection (3)—

18.14.4.a

it is immaterial whether the matter relates to minerals and waste development;

18.14.4.b

if a matter which is prescribed or in respect of which the Secretary of State
gives a direction falls within section 13(4) the county council must consult
the local planning authority for the area in question.

18.14.5

The county council must make available the results of their review under
subsection (3) to such persons as the Secretary of State prescribes or directs
(as the case may be).

19

In section 38 (development plan), in subsection (7), after “enactments” insert
“mentioned in subsection (1)” .

20

In section 38A (meaning of “ neighbourhood development plan ”), in subsection
(12)—

20.a

after “this section” insert  “and section 38B” ;

20.b

in the definition of “local planning authority”, for the words from “section
37” to the end of the definition substitute  “ section 15LF )” .

21

In section 39 (sustainable development), in subsection (1)—

21.a

in paragraph (b), for “local development documents” substituted  “a joint
spatial development strategy, local plan, minerals and waste plan or
supplementary plan” ;

21.b

after that paragraph insert—

21.b.ba

under section 38A to 38C in relation to a neighbourhood development plan.

22

In section 61 (Wales: survey), for subsection (6) substitute—

22.6

If a neighbouring area is in England, the reference in subsection (5) to the
local planning authority for that area is to be construed as a reference to
the local planning authority and the minerals and waste planning authority, in
each case for the purposes of Part 2, for that area.

23

23.1

Section 113 (validity of strategies, plans and documents) is amended as
follows.

23.2

In subsection (1)—

23.2.a

after paragraph (ba) insert—

23.2.a.bb

a local plan;

23.2.a.bc

a minerals and waste plan;

23.2.a.bd

a supplementary plan;

;

23.2.b

omit paragraph (c);

23.2.c

in paragraph (e), for “(c)” substitute  “ (bb) ,  (bc) ,  (bd) ” ;

23.2.d

in paragraph (f), for “the Mayor of London’s” substitute  “a” ;

23.2.e

in paragraph (g), for “the” substitute  “a” .

23.3

In subsection (9)—

23.3.a

in paragraph (c), for “development plan document” substitute  “local plan,
minerals and waste plan or supplementary plan” ;

23.3.b

in paragraph (e), after “strategy” insert  “for London” ;

23.3.c

after that paragraph insert—

23.3.c.f

in the case of a spatial development strategy adopted by a combined authority
established under section 103 of the Local Democracy, Economic Development and
Construction Act 2009, or any alteration or replacement of it, whichever
provisions of (or applied by) an order under that Act give the combined
authority powers in relation to such a strategy;

23.3.c.g

sections  15A  to  15AF  above, in the case of a joint spatial development
strategy or any alteration of it.

23.4

In subsection (11)—

23.4.a

in paragraph (c)—

23.4.a.i

for “development plan document” substitute  “local plan, minerals and waste
plan or supplementary plan” ;

23.4.a.ii

for the words from “by the local” to the end substitute  “or approved (as the
case may be) under Part 2;” ;

23.4.b

in paragraph (e)—

23.4.b.i

for “the”, in the second place it occurs, substitute  “a” ;

23.4.b.ii

for “the Mayor of London publishes it” substitute  “it becomes operative” .

23.5

After subsection (12) insert—

23.5.13

In this section, “spatial development strategy”, “ spatial development
strategy for London ” and “ joint spatial development strategy ” must be
construed in accordance with  section 15LH .

24

In section 116 (Isles of Scilly), in subsection (2)(b), after “local planning
authority” insert  “or minerals and waste planning authority” .

25

In section 122 (regulations and orders)—

25.a

in subsection (5), before paragraph (a) insert—

25.a.za

regulations under  section 15A (2) (c) ;

25.a.zb

regulations made under  section 39A (3) ;

;

25.b

in subsection (6), after “(5)” insert  “ (za) ,  (zb) ,” .

26

26.1

Schedule A1 (default powers exercisable by Mayor of London, combined authority
or county council) is amended as follows.

26.2

For paragraph 1 substitute—

26.2.1

26.2.1.1

This paragraph applies if the Secretary of State thinks that a London borough
council, in their capacity as a local planning authority, are failing to do
anything it is necessary or expedient for them to do in connection with the
preparation, adoption or revision of a local plan.

26.2.1.2

If the local plan has not come into effect, the Secretary of State may invite
the Mayor of London to take over preparation of the local plan from the London
borough council, in which case the Mayor may do so.

26.2.1.3

If the local plan has come into effect, the Secretary of State may invite the
Mayor of London to revise the local plan, in which case the Mayor may do so.

26.3

In paragraph 2—

26.3.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for “development plan document” substitute  “local plan”
;

26.3.b

after that sub-paragraph insert—

26.3.b.1A

If the Mayor of London is to prepare the local plan, the Mayor must publish a
document setting out—

26.3.b.1A.a

the Mayor’s timetable for preparing the plan, and

26.3.b.1A.b

if the Mayor intend to depart from anything specified in a local plan
timetable in relation to the plan, details of how the Mayor intends to depart
from it.

;

26.3.c

for sub-paragraph (4) substitute—

26.3.c.4

The Mayor of London may then—

26.3.c.4.a

where the Mayor has prepared a local plan, approve the local plan, approve the
local plan subject to specified modifications or direct the council to
consider adopting the local plan by resolution of the council, or

26.3.c.4.b

where the Mayor is to revise a local plan, make the revision or make the
revision subject to specified modifications.

26.4

In paragraph 3—

26.4.a

for sub-paragraph (1) substitute—

26.4.a.1

Subsections  (4)  to  (12)  of section  15D , and  section 15DA , apply to an
examination held under paragraph 2(2)—

26.4.a.1.a

reading references to the local planning authority as references to the Mayor
of London, and

26.4.a.1.b

in the case of an independent examination of a proposed revision, reading
references to a local plan as references to the revision.

;

26.4.b

in sub-paragraph (3)(a), omit “or omitted”;

26.4.c

for sub-paragraph (4) substitute—

26.4.c.i

for “joint local development document or a joint development plan document”
substitute  “joint local plan” ;

26.4.c.ii

for “the document” substitute  “the plan” .

26.5

In paragraph 4, for “section 29” substitute  “ section 15J ” .

26.6

For paragraph 5 substitute—

26.6.5

26.6.5.1

This paragraph applies if the Secretary of State thinks that a constituent
planning authority are failing to do anything it is necessary or expedient for
them to do in connection with the preparation, adoption or revision of a local
plan.

26.6.5.2

If the local plan has not come into effect, the Secretary of State may invite
the combined authority to take over preparation of the local plan from the
constituent planning authority, in which case the combined authority may do
so.

26.6.5.3

If the local plan has come into effect, the Secretary of State may invite the
combined authority to revise the local plan, in which case the combined
authority may do so.

26.7

In paragraph 6—

26.7.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for “development plan document” substitute  “local plan”
;

26.7.b

after that sub-paragraph insert—

26.7.b.1A

If the combined authority are to prepare the local plan, the combined
authority must publish a document setting out—

26.7.b.1A.a

their timetable for preparing the plan, and

26.7.b.1A.b

if they intend to depart from anything specified in a local plan timetable in
relation to the plan, details of how they intend to depart from it.

;

26.7.c

for sub-paragraph (4) substitute—

26.7.c.4

The combined authority may then—

26.7.c.4.a

where the combined authority have prepared a local plan, approve the local
plan, approve the local plan subject to specified modifications or direct the
constituent planning authority to consider adopting the local plan by
resolution of the authority, or

26.7.c.4.b

where the combined authority are to revise a local plan, make the revision or
make the revision subject to specified modifications.

26.8

In paragraph 7—

26.8.a

for sub-paragraph (1) substitute—

26.8.a.1

Subsections  (4)  to  (12)  of  section 15D , and  section 15DA , apply to an
examination held under paragraph 6(2)—

26.8.a.1.a

reading references to the local planning authority as references to the
combined authority, and

26.8.a.1.b

in the case of an independent examination of a proposed revision, reading
references to a local plan as references to the revision.

;

26.8.b

in sub-paragraph (3)(a), omit “or omitted”;

26.8.c

in sub-paragraph (4)—

26.8.c.i

for “joint local development document or a joint development plan document”
substitute  “joint local plan” ;

26.8.c.ii

for “the document” substitute  “the plan” .

26.9

In paragraph  7ZA  (inserted by paragraph  156  of Schedule  4  to this Act),
in paragraph (b) of the definition of “constituent planning authority”, for
“29” substitute  “15J” .

26.10

For paragraph  7ZB  (inserted by paragraph  156  of Schedule  4  to this Act)
substitute—

26.10.7ZB

26.10.7ZB.1

This paragraph applies if the Secretary of State thinks that a constituent
planning authority are failing to do anything it is necessary or expedient for
them to do in connection with the preparation, adoption or revision of a local
plan.

26.10.7ZB.2

If the local plan has not come into effect, the Secretary of State may invite
the combined county authority to take over preparation of the local plan from
the constituent planning authority, in which case the combined county
authority may do so.

26.10.7ZB.3

If the local plan has come into effect, the Secretary of State may invite the
combined county authority to revise the local plan, in which case the combined
county authority may do so.

26.11

In paragraph  7ZC  (inserted by paragraph  156  of Schedule  4  to this Act)—

26.11.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for “development plan document” substitute  “local plan”
;

26.11.b

after that sub-paragraph insert—

26.11.b.1A

If the combined county authority are to prepare the local plan, the combined
county authority must publish a document setting out—

26.11.b.1A.a

their timetable for preparing the plan, and

26.11.b.1A.b

if they intend to depart from anything specified in a local plan timetable in
relation to the plan, details of how they intend to depart from it.

;

26.11.c

for sub-paragraph (4) substitute—

26.11.c.4

The combined county authority may then—

26.11.c.4.a

where the combined county authority have prepared a local plan, approve the
local plan subject to specified modifications or direct the constituent
planning authority to consider adopting the local plan by resolution of the
authority, or

26.11.c.4.b

where the combined county authority are to revise a local plan, make the
revision or make the revision subject to specified modifications.

26.12

In paragraph  7ZD  (inserted by paragraph  156  of Schedule  4  to this Act)—

26.12.a

for sub-paragraph (1) substitute—

26.12.a.1

Subsections (4) to (12) of section 15D, and section 15DA, apply to an
examination held under paragraph 7ZC(2)—

26.12.a.1.a

reading references to the local planning authority as references to the
combined county authority, and

26.12.a.1.b

in the case of an independent examination of a proposed revision, reading
references to a local plan as references to the revision.

;

26.12.b

in sub-paragraph (3)(a), omit “or omitted”;

26.12.c

in sub-paragraph (4)—

26.12.c.i

for “joint local development document or a joint development plan document”
substitute  “joint local plan” ;

26.12.c.ii

for “the document” substitute  “the plan” .

26.13

For paragraph 7B substitute—

26.13.7B

26.13.7B.1

This paragraph applies if the Secretary of State thinks that a lower tier
planning authority are failing to do anything it is necessary or expedient for
them to do in connection with the preparation, adoption or revision of a local
plan.

26.13.7B.2

If the local plan has not come into effect, the Secretary of State may invite
the upper-tier county council to take over preparation of the local plan from
the lower-tier planning authority, in which case the upper-tier county council
may do so.

26.13.7B.3

If the local plan has come into effect, the Secretary of State may invite the
upper-tier county council to revise the local plan, in which case the upper-
tier county council may do so.

26.14

In paragraph 7C—

26.14.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for “development plan document” substitute  “local plan”
;

26.14.b

after that sub-paragraph insert—

26.14.b.1A

If the upper-tier county council are to prepare the local plan, the upper-tier
county council must publish a document setting out—

26.14.b.1A.a

their timetable for preparing the plan, and

26.14.b.1A.b

if they intend to depart from anything specified in a local plan timetable in
relation to the plan, details of how they intend to depart from it.

;

26.14.c

for sub-paragraph (4) substitute—

26.14.c.4

The upper-tier county council may then—

26.14.c.4.a

where the upper-tier county council have prepared a local plan, approve the
local plan, approve the local plan subject to specified modifications or
direct the lower-tier planning authority to consider adopting the local plan
by resolution of the authority, or

26.14.c.4.b

where the upper-tier county council are to revise a local plan, make the
revision or make the revision subject to specified modifications.

26.15

In paragraph 7D—

26.15.a

for sub-paragraph (1) substitute—

26.15.a.1

Subsections  (4)  to  (12)  of  section 15D , and  section 15DA , apply to an
examination held under paragraph 7C(2)—

26.15.a.1.a

reading references to the local planning authority as references to the upper-
tier county council, and

26.15.a.1.b

in the case of an independent examination of a proposed revision, reading
references to a local plan as references to the revision.

;

26.15.b

in sub-paragraph (3)(a), omit “or omitted”;

26.15.c

in sub-paragraph (4)—

26.15.c.i

for “joint local development document or a joint development plan document”
substitute  “joint local plan” ;

26.15.c.ii

for “the document” substitute  “the plan” .

26.16

In paragraph 8—

26.16.a

in sub-paragraph (1)—

26.16.a.i

for “development plan document” substitute  “local plan” ;

26.16.a.ii

for “revised” substitute  “a revision of a local plan” ;

26.16.b

in sub-paragraph (2)—

26.16.b.i

for “development plan document” substitute  “local plan” ;

26.16.b.ii

in paragraph (a), for “ document ” (in both places) substitute plan;

26.16.b.iii

in that paragraph, for “section 23” substitute  “ section 15EA ” ;

26.16.c

in sub-paragraph (3)(b), for “document” substitute  “plan” ;

26.16.d

in sub-paragraph (5)—

26.16.d.i

for “development plan document” substitute  “local plan” ;

26.16.d.ii

for “section 23” substitute  “ section 15EA ” ;

26.16.d.iii

for “the document” substitute  “the plan” ;

26.16.e

in sub-paragraph (6), for “ document ” (in each place) substitute  “plan” ;

26.16.f

in sub-paragraph (7)—

26.16.f.i

in paragraph (a), for “development plan document” substitute  “local plan” ;

26.16.f.ii

in paragraph (b), for “section 23” substitute  “ section 15EA ” ;

26.16.f.iii

in the words after paragraph (b), for “document” substitute  “plan” ;

26.16.g

after sub-paragraph (7) insert—

26.16.g.7A

Sub-paragraphs (2) to (7) and paragraph 9 apply in relation to a revision to a
local plan to which this paragraph applies as they apply in relation to a
local plan to which this paragraph applies—

26.16.g.7A.a

reading references to the plan being adopted or approved as references to the
revision being made, and

26.16.g.7A.b

reading references to paragraph 2(4)(a), 6(4)(a), 7ZC(4)(a) or 7C(4)(a) as
references to paragraph 2(4)(b), 6(4)(b), 7ZC(4)(b) or 7C(4)(b).

26.17

In paragraph 9, for “ document ” (in each place) substitute  “plan” .

26.18

For paragraph 10 substitute—

26.18.10

Subsections  (4)  to  (12)  of  section 15D , and  section 15DA , apply to an
examination of a local plan held under paragraph 9(3)—

26.18.10.a

reading references to the local planning authority as references to Secretary
of State, and

26.18.10.b

in the case of an independent examination of a proposed revision, reading
references to a local plan as references to the revision.

26.19

In paragraph 11, for “local development scheme” substitute  “local plan
timetable” .

26.20

In paragraph 13—

26.20.a

in sub-paragraph (1)—

26.20.a.i

for “development plan document” substitute  “local plan” ;

26.20.a.ii

after “step” insert  “, or not to take a step specified in the direction,” ;

26.20.a.iii

for “adoption or approval of the document” substitute  “plan” ;

26.20.b

in sub-paragraph (2), for “document” substitute  “plan” ;

26.20.c

in sub-paragraph (3), for “ document ” (in both places) substitute  “plan” .

##### Commons Act 2006

27

In Schedule 1A to the Commons Act 2006 (exclusion of right under section 15 of
that Act (registration of greens): England), in the Table—

27.a

in paragraph 3 of the first column—

27.a.i

for “development plan document” substitute  “local plan, a document which is
to be or to form part of a minerals and waste plan or a supplementary plan” ;

27.a.ii

for “section 17(7)” substitute  “section  15LE (2) (g) ” ;

27.b

in paragraph (a) of the entry in the second column corresponding to paragraph
3—

27.b.i

after “The” insert  “plan or” ;

27.b.ii

for “under section 22(1) of the 2004 Act” substitute

under—

27.b.ii.i

in the case of a local plan, section  15E  of the 2004 Act;

27.b.ii.ii

in the case of a document which is to be or to form part of a minerals and
waste plan, section  15E  of that Act (as applied by section  15CB (8)  of
that Act);

27.b.ii.iii

in the case of a supplementary plan, regulations made under section  15CC (11)
of that Act.

;

27.c

for paragraph (b) of the entry in the second column corresponding to paragraph
3 substitute—

27.c.b

The plan or document is adopted or approved under Part 2 of that Act (but see
paragraph 4 of this Table).

;

27.d

in paragraph (c) of the entry in the second column corresponding to paragraph
3, after “which the” insert  “plan or” ;

27.e

for paragraph 4 of the first column substitute—

27.e.4

A local plan, a document which is or forms part of a minerals and waste plan
or a supplementary plan, which identifies the land for potential development,
is adopted or approved under Part 2 of the 2004 Act.

;

27.f

in paragraph (a) of the entry in the second column corresponding to paragraph
4—

27.f.i

after “The” insert  “plan or” ;

27.f.ii

for “section 25 of the 2004 Act” substitute  “section  15G  of the 2004 Act
(including as applied by section  15CB (8)  of that Act, in the case of a
minerals and waste plan)” ;

27.g

in paragraph (b) of the entry in the second column corresponding to paragraph
4, after “in the” insert  “plan or” .

##### Planning and Energy Act 2008

28

The Planning and Energy Act 2008 is amended as follows.

29

29.1

Section 1 (energy policies) is amended as follows.

29.2

In subsection (1), for “development plan documents,” substitute  “local plan
and any supplementary plan, a minerals and waste planning authority may in
their minerals and waste plan and any supplementary plan,” .

29.3

After that subsection insert—

29.3.1ZA

In relation to the minerals and waste plan or supplementary plan of a minerals
and waste planning authority, references in subsection (1) to development in
their area are to minerals and waste development in the relevant area.

29.4

In subsection (4)—

29.4.a

in paragraph (a), for “section 19” substitute  “sections  15C ,  15CA  and
15CC ” ;

29.4.b

after that paragraph insert—

29.4.b.aza

sections  15CB  and  15CC  of that Act, in the case of a minerals and waste
planning authority;

.

29.5

In subsection (5), for “development plan documents” substitute  “a local plan,
a minerals and waste plan or a supplementary plan” .

30

In section 2 (interpretation), for the definition of “development plan
document” substitute—

      “ local plan ”, “ minerals and waste development ”, “ minerals and waste
plan ”, “ minerals and waste planning authority ”, “ relevant area ” and “
supplementary plan ” have the same meaning as in Part 2 of the Planning and
Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 (see, in particular, section  15LH  of that Act);

.

##### Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009

31

31.1

Schedule 6 to the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 (marine plans:
preparation and adoption) is amended as follows.

31.2

In paragraph 1—

31.2.a

in sub-paragraph (2), after paragraph (d) insert—

31.2.a.da

any minerals and waste planning authority whose relevant area adjoins or is
adjacent to the marine plan area;

;

31.2.b

in sub-paragraph (3)—

31.2.b.i

in paragraph (a) of the definition of “local planning authority”, for “section
37” substitute  “section  15LF ” ;

31.2.b.ii

after that definition insert—

      “ minerals and waste planning authority ” means an authority which is a
minerals and waste planning authority for the purposes of Part 2 of the
Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 (see  section 15LG  of that Act) and
“ relevant area ” has the meaning given by that section.

31.3

In paragraph 3(6), in paragraph (a) of the definition of “development plan”,
for “section 38(2) to (4)” substitute  “section 38(2A) to (4)” .

##### Waste (England and Wales) Regulations 2011 (

32

In regulation 16(3) of the Waste (England and Wales) Regulations 2011 (general
interpretation: meaning of planning authority), for sub-paragraph (b)
substitute—

32.ba

a local planning authority or minerals and waste planning authority for the
purposes of Part 2 of the 2004 Act;

.

##### Housing and Planning Act 2016

33

The Housing and Planning Act 2016 is amended as follows.

34

In section 6 (starter homes: monitoring), in subsection (2), omit paragraph
(c).

35

In section 7 (starter homes: compliance directions), in subsection (1)(b) for
“local development document” substitute  “local plan, document which is or
forms part of a minerals and waste plan or supplementary plan” .

36

In section 8 (starter homes: interpretation), for the definition of “local
development document” substitute—

      “ local plan ”, “ minerals and waste plan ” and “ supplementary plan ”
have the same meaning as in Part 2 of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act
2004 (see, in particular, section  15LH  of that Act);

.

##### Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 (

37

The Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 are amended as
follows.

38

38.1

Regulation 41 (nature conservation policy in planning contexts) is amended as
follows.

38.2

In paragraph (1), after “of land” insert  “or minerals and waste development”
.

38.3

In paragraph (2)(a)(i)—

38.3.a

for “section 17(3)” substitute  “sections  15C (3)  and  (4)  and  15CC (3) ”
;

38.3.b

for “local development documents” substitute  “local plans and supplementary
plans made by local planning authorities” .

38.4

Omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (2)(a)(ii).

38.5

After paragraph (2)(a) insert—

38.5.aa

in relation to minerals and waste development, sections  15CB (2)  and  (3)
and  15CC (5)  of that Act; and

.

39

39.1

Regulation 108 (co-ordination for land use plan prepared by more than one
authority) is amended as follows.

39.2

In paragraph (1), for the words from “prepare” to the end substitute  “prepare
a relevant joint plan” .

39.3

In paragraph (2), for “joint local development document or plan” substitute
“relevant joint plan” .

39.4

In paragraph (3), for “joint local planning document or plan” substitute
“relevant joint plan” .

39.5

In paragraph (5), for “joint local development document or plan” substitute
“relevant joint plan” .

39.6

After that paragraph insert—

39.6.6

In this regulation “ relevant joint plan ” means—

39.6.6.a

a joint spatial development strategy, joint local plan or joint supplementary
plan (within the meaning of Part 2 of the 2004 Planning Act),

39.6.6.b

a document which is or forms part of a joint minerals and waste plan under
sections  15I  and  15IA  of that Act (as applied by section  15CB (8)  of
that Act), or

39.6.6.c

a joint local development plan under section 72 of that Act.

40

40.1

Regulation 111 (interpretation of Chapter 8 of Part 6) is amended as follows.

40.2

In paragraph (1)—

40.2.a

in paragraph (b) of the definition of “land use plan”—

40.2.a.i

for “local development document as provided for in” substitute  “joint spatial
development strategy, local plan, document which is or forms part of a
minerals and waste plan, supplementary plan or any revision of such a plan or
document under” ;

40.2.a.ii

omit the words from “other” to the end;

40.2.b

in paragraph (a) of the definition of “plan-making authority”, after
“replacement)” insert  “or section  15CC  of the 2004 Planning Act
(supplementary plans)” ;

40.2.c

in paragraph (b) of the definition of “plan-making authority” omit “or an
order under section 29(2) of the 2004 Planning Act (joint committees)”;

40.2.d

after that paragraph insert—

40.2.d.ba

a local planning authority or minerals and waste planning authority for the
purposes of Part 2 of the 2004 Planning Act;

;

40.2.e

in paragraph (c) of the definition of “plan-making authority”, omit sub-
paragraph (i);

40.2.f

after that paragraph insert—

40.2.f.ca

anyone exercising powers under  section 15H ,  15HA  or  15HB  of, or Schedule
A1 to, the 2004 Planning Act;

.

40.3

In paragraph (2)—

40.3.a

for sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute—

40.3.a.aa

the adoption of a joint spatial development strategy under  section 15AD  of
the 2004 Planning Act or of an alteration of such a strategy under  section
15AF  of that Act;

40.3.a.ab

the adoption or approval of a local plan, document which is or forms part of a
minerals and waste plan, supplementary plan or a revision of any such document
or plan under Part 2 of the 2004 Planning Act;

;

40.3.b

in sub-paragraph (c) for “publication” substitute  “adoption” .

  Street votes: minor and consequential amendments

Section 106

##### Town and Country Planning Act 1990

1

1.1

TCPA 1990 is amended as follows.

1.2

In section 5 (the Broads), in subsection (3), for “61Q” substitute  “61QM” .

1.3

In section 56 (time when development begun), in subsection (3)—

1.3.a

after “(7),” insert  “ 61QI (8) ,” ;

1.3.b

for “108(3E)(c)(i)” substitute  “, 108(3E)(c)(i), 108(3DB)(c)(i)” .

1.4

In section 57 (planning permission required for development), in subsection
(3), for “or a neighbourhood development order” substitute  “, a neighbourhood
development order or a street vote development order” .

1.5

In section 58 (granting of planning permission: general), in subsection
(1)(a), for “or a neighbourhood development order” substitute  “, a
neighbourhood development order or a street vote development order” .

1.6

In section 62 (applications for planning permission or permission in
principle), in subsection (2A)—

1.6.a

at the end of paragraph (a) omit “and”;

1.6.b

after paragraph (b) insert

, and

1.6.b.c

applications for consent, agreement or approval where that consent, agreement
or approval is required by a condition or limitation imposed under section
61QI(1).

1.7

In section 65 (notice of applications for planning permission or permission in
principle), in subsection (3A)—

1.7.a

at the end of paragraph (a) omit “and”;

1.7.b

after paragraph (b) insert

, and

1.7.b.c

any application for consent, agreement or approval where that consent,
agreement or approval is required by a condition or limitation imposed under
section 61QI(1) or any applicant for such consent, agreement or approval.

1.8

In section 69 (register of applications etc)—

1.8.a

after subsection (1)(cza) insert—

1.8.a.czb

street vote development orders or proposals for such orders;

;

1.8.b

in subsection (2)(b), after “Mayoral development order,” insert  “street vote
development order or proposal for such an order,” .

1.9

In section 71 (consultations in connection with determinations under section
70), in subsection (2ZA)—

1.9.a

at the end of paragraph (a) omit “and”;

1.9.b

after paragraph (b) insert

, and

1.9.b.c

an application for consent, agreement or approval where that consent,
agreement or approval is required by a condition or limitation imposed under
section 61QI(1).

1.10

In section 74 (directions etc as to method of dealing with applications), in
subsection (1ZA)—

1.10.a

in paragraph (a)—

1.10.a.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (i) omit “and”;

1.10.a.ii

after sub-paragraph (ii) insert—

1.10.a.ii.iii

a consent, agreement or approval where that consent, agreement or approval is
required by a condition or limitation imposed under section 61QI(1), and

;

1.10.b

in paragraph (b)—

1.10.b.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (i) omit “and”;

1.10.b.ii

after sub-paragraph (ii) insert

, and

1.10.b.ii.iii

applications for consent, agreement or approval where that consent, agreement
or approval is required by a condition or limitation imposed under section
61QI(1).

1.11

In section 77 (reference of applications to Secretary of State), in subsection
(1), for “or a neighbourhood development order” substitute  “, a neighbourhood
development order or a street vote development order” .

1.12

In section 78 (right to appeal), in subsection (1)(c), for “or a neighbourhood
development order” substitute  “, a neighbourhood development order or a
street vote development order” .

1.13

In section 88 (planning permission for development in enterprise zones), in
subsection (9), for “or a neighbourhood development order” substitute  “, a
neighbourhood development order or a street vote development order” .

1.14

In section 91 (general condition limiting duration of planning permission), in
subsection (4)(a), for “or a neighbourhood development order” substitute  “, a
neighbourhood development order or a street vote development order” .

1.15

In section 94 (termination of planning permission by reference to time limit:
completion notices), in subsection (1), after paragraph (d) insert

; or

1.15.e

a planning permission under a street vote development order is subject to a
condition that the development to which the permission relates must be begun
before the expiration of a particular period, that development has been begun
within that period, but that period has elapsed without the development having
been completed.

1.16

In section 108 (compensation)—

1.16.a

in the heading, for “or neighbourhood development order” substitute  “,
neighbourhood development order or street vote development order” ;

1.16.b

in subsection (1)—

1.16.b.i

in paragraph (a), for “or a neighbourhood development order” substitute  “, a
neighbourhood development order or a street vote development order” ;

1.16.b.ii

in the words after paragraph (b), for “or the neighbourhood development order”
substitute  “, the neighbourhood development order or the street vote
development order” ;

1.16.c

in subsection (2), for “or a neighbourhood development order” substitute  “, a
neighbourhood development order or a street vote development order” ;

1.16.d

in subsection (3B)—

1.16.d.i

in paragraph (ba), at the end omit “or”;

1.16.d.ii

after that paragraph insert—

1.16.d.ii.bb

in the case of planning permission granted by a street vote development order,
the condition in subsection (3DB) is met, or

;

1.16.e

after subsection (3DA) insert—

1.16.e.3DB

The condition referred to in subsection (3B)(bb) is that—

1.16.e.3DB.a

the planning permission is withdrawn by the revocation or modification of the
street vote development order,

1.16.e.3DB.b

notice of the revocation or modification was published in the prescribed
manner not less than 12 months or more than the prescribed period before the
revocation or modification took effect, and

1.16.e.3DB.c

either—

1.16.e.3DB.c.i

the development authorised by the street vote development order had not begun
before the notice was published, or

1.16.e.3DB.c.ii

section 61QI (7)  applies in relation to the development.

1.17

In section 109 (apportionment of compensation for depreciation), in subsection
(6), in the definition of “relevant planning decision”, for “or the
neighbourhood development order” substitute  “, the neighbourhood development
order or the street vote development order” .

1.18

In section 171H (temporary stop notice: compensation), in subsection (1)(a),
for “or a neighbourhood development order” substitute  “, a neighbourhood
development order or a street vote development order” .

1.19

In section 264 (cases in which land is to be treated as not being operational
land), in subsection (5)(ca), for “or a neighbourhood development order”
substitute  “, a neighbourhood development order or a street vote development
order” .

1.20

In section 324 (rights of entry), in subsection (1A)—

1.20.a

the words from “the reference” to the end become paragraph (a);

1.20.b

after that paragraph insert

, and

1.20.b.b

the reference to a proposal by the Secretary of State to make any order under
Part 3 includes a reference to a proposal submitted (or to be submitted) to
the Secretary of State for the making of a street vote development order.

1.21

In section 333 (regulations and orders)—

1.21.a

after subsection (3) insert—

1.21.a.3ZZA

Subsection (3) does not apply to a statutory instrument containing regulations
made under any of sections 61QB to 61QJ or section 61QL if a draft of the
instrument has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each House
of Parliament.

;

1.21.b

after subsection (3ZA) insert—

1.21.b.3ZZAA

No regulations may be made under section 61QC(2), 61QH or 61QI(4) unless a
draft of the instrument containing the regulations has been laid before, and
approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament.

1.22

In Schedule 1 (local planning authorities: distribution of functions), in
paragraph 6A, at the end insert  “or any of sections 61QA to 61QM (street vote
development orders)” .

##### Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990

2

2.1

The Listed Buildings Act is amended as follows.

2.2

In section 66 (general duty as respects listed buildings in exercise of
planning functions), in subsection (4), after “orders” insert  “or street vote
development orders (except as provided by SVDO regulations within the meaning
given by section 61QM of the principal Act)” .

2.3

In section 72 (general duty as respects conservation areas in exercise of
planning functions), in subsection (4), after “orders” insert  “or street vote
development orders (except as provided by SVDO regulations within the meaning
given by section 61QM of the principal Act)” .

##### Elections Act 2022

3

In section 34 of the Elections Act 2022 (campaigners), in subsection (6), in
the definition of “local referendum”, after paragraph (d) insert—

3.e

section 61QE of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (referendums on street
vote development orders);

.

##### The Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017

4

4.1

The Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/1012 )
are amended as follows.

4.2

In regulation 75 (general development orders)—

4.2.a

in the heading, after “orders” insert  “and street vote development orders” ;

4.2.b

in the opening words, after “2017” insert  “or a street vote development
order” .

4.3

In regulation 76 (opinion of appropriate nature conservation body)—

4.3.a

in the heading, after “orders” insert  “and street vote development orders” ;

4.3.b

in paragraph (1), after “order” insert  “or a street vote development order” ;

4.3.c

in paragraph (6), after “order” insert  “or a street vote development order” .

4.4

In regulation 77 (approval of local planning authority), in the heading, after
“orders” insert  “and street vote development orders” .

4.5

In regulation 78 (supplementary)—

4.5.a

in the heading, after “orders” insert  “and street vote development orders” ;

4.5.b

in paragraph (3)(b), after “order” insert  “or development order” .

4.6

In regulation 85B (assumptions to be made about nutrient pollution standards)—

4.6.a

in the heading, after “orders” insert  “and street vote development orders” ;

4.6.b

in paragraph (1)(a) after “orders” insert  “and street vote development
orders” .

Crown development: consequential amendments

Section  109

##### Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (c. 8)

1

TCPA 1990 is amended as follows.

2

In section 61W (England: requirement to carry out pre-application
consultation), in subsection (6)(a), for “293A” substitute  “ 293B ” .

3

In section 108 (compensation for refusal or conditional grant of planning
permission etc formerly granted by development order etc)—

3.a

in subsection (1)—

3.a.i

in paragraph (b), for “Part III or section 293A” substitute  “Parts 3 or 13” ;

3.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (i), for “or section 293A” substitute  “or by the Secretary
of State or Welsh Ministers under Part 13” ;

3.b

in subsection (2B)—

3.b.i

in paragraph (b), for “Part III or section 293A” substitute  “Parts 3 or 13” ;

3.b.ii

in the closing words, for “or section 293A” substitute  “or by the Secretary
of State or Welsh Ministers under Part 13” .

4

In section 247 (highways affected by development: orders by the Secretary of
State), in subsection (1)(a), for “Part III or section 293A” substitute
“Parts 3 or 13” .

5

In section 257 (footpaths etc affected by development: orders by other
authorities), in subsection (1)(a), for “Part III or section 293A” substitute
“Parts 3 or 13” .

6

In section 284 (validity of certain orders, decisions and directions), in
subsection (3)—

6.a

in paragraph (i), after “in principle” insert  “to the Welsh Ministers” ;

6.b

after paragraph (i) insert—

6.b.j

any decision on an application made to the Secretary of State under section
293B ,  293D  or  293E .

7

In section 293A (urgent Crown development: application)—

7.a

in the heading, at the end insert  “to the Welsh Ministers” ;

7.b

in subsection (1), in the opening words, after “development” insert  “of land
in Wales” .

8

In section 303 (fees for planning application etc.), after subsection (4)
insert—

8.a

in subsection (4), for “ appropriate authority ” (in both places) substitute
“Welsh Ministers” ;

8.b

after subsection (4) insert—

8.b.4A

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for the payment of a
fee to the Secretary of State in respect of an application under section  293B
,  293D  or  293E .

9

In section 319A (determination of procedure for certain proceedings: England),
in subsection (7)—

9.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (d);

9.b

after paragraph (e) insert

; and

9.b.f

an application made to the Secretary of State under section  293D  or  293E .

9.c

after paragraph (e) insert—

9.c.f

an application made to the Secretary of State under section  293D  or  293E .

10

In section 336 (interpretation), in subsection (1)—

10.a

in the definition of “planning decision”, for “Part III or section 293A”
substitute  “Parts 3 or 13” ;

10.b

in the definition of “planning permission”, for “Part III or section 293A”
substitute  “Parts 3 or 13” .

##### Housing and Planning Act 2016 (c. 22)

11

In section 205 (interpretation of sections 203 and 204), in subsection (1), in
the definition of “planning consent”, for “Part 3 of the Town and Country
Planning Act 1990 or section 293A of that Act” substitute  “Parts 3 or 13 of
the Town and Country Planning Act 1990” .

  Completion notices: consequential amendments

Section 112

1

TCPA 1990 is amended as follows.

2

In section 56 (time when development begun), in subsection (3), after “92,”
insert  “93H,” .

3

Before section 94 insert—

  Termination of planning permission: Wales

.

4

4.1

Section 94 (termination of planning permission by reference to time limit:
completion notices) is amended as follows.

4.2

In the heading, at the end insert  “in Wales” .

4.3

In subsection (1)—

4.3.a

in paragraph (a), after “planning permission” insert  “in relation to land in
Wales” ;

4.3.b

in paragraphs (b) and (c), after “scheme” insert  “in Wales” ;

4.3.c

omit paragraph (d) and the preceding “or”.

5

In section 95 (effect of completion notice)—

5.a

in the heading, at the end insert  “in Wales” ;

5.b

in subsection (1), after “notice” insert  “served in respect of land in Wales”
.

6

In section 96 (power of Secretary of State to serve completion notices)—

6.a

in the heading, at the end insert  “in Wales” ;

6.b

in subsection (1), after “land” insert  “in Wales” .

7

In section 284 (validity of development plans and certain orders, decisions
and directions), in subsection (3), after paragraph (b) insert—

7.ba

any decision on an appeal under section 93I;

.

8

In section 285 (validity of notices), before subsection (1) insert—

8.A1

The validity of a completion notice under section 93H shall not, except by way
of an appeal under section 93I, be questioned in any proceedings whatsoever on
any of the grounds on which such an appeal may be brought.

9

In section 286 (challenges to validity on grounds of authority’s powers), at
the end insert—

9.3

The validity of any completion notice served or purporting to have been served
by a local planning authority under section 93H shall not be called in
question in any legal proceedings, or in any proceedings under this Act which
are not legal proceedings, on the ground of non-compliance with any
requirement of paragraph 10 of Schedule 1.

10

In section 289 (appeals to High Court)—

10.a

in the heading, for the words from “enforcement” to the end substitute
“certain notices” ;

10.b

in subsection (1), after “appeal under” insert  “section 93I against a
completion notice or under” .

11

In section 319A (determination of procedure: England), in subsection (7),
after paragraph (b) insert—

11.bza

an appeal under section 93I against a completion notice;

.

12

In section 324 (rights of entry), in subsection (1)(c), after “sections”
insert  “93H,” .

13

In Schedule 1 (local planning authorities: distribution of functions), in
paragraph 10, after “section” insert  “93H or” .

14

In Schedule 6 (determination of appeals by appointed person)—

14.a

in paragraph 1(1), after “78,” insert  “93I,” ;

14.b

in paragraph 2(1), after paragraph (a) insert—

14.b.zaa

in relation to an appeal under section 93I, as the Secretary of State has
under that section;

.

15

In Schedule 16 (provisions referred to in sections 314 to 319), in Part 2,
after the entry relating to sections 91 to 93 insert—

      Sections 93H to 93J

.

  Infrastructure Levy

Section  137

##### Infrastructure Levy: England

1

After Part 10 of the Planning Act 2008 insert—

######### Infrastructure Levy: England

########## The levy

1.204A

1.204A.1

The Secretary of State may with the consent of the Treasury make regulations
providing for the imposition, in England, of a charge to be known as
Infrastructure Levy (IL).

1.204A.2

In making the regulations, the Secretary of State must aim to ensure that the
overall purpose of IL is to ensure that costs incurred in—

1.204A.2.a

supporting the development of an area, and

1.204A.2.b

achieving any purpose specified under section 204N(5), 204O(3) or 204P(3),

can be funded (wholly or partly) by owners or developers of land in a way that
does not make development of the area economically unviable.

1.204A.3

The Table describes the provisions of this Part.

    Section Topic   Section  204B The charge Section  204C Joint committees
Sections  204D  and  204E Liability Section  204F Charities Section  204G
Amount Sections  204H  to  204M Charging schedule Sections  204N  to  204P
Application Section  204Q Infrastructure delivery strategy Section  204R
Collection Section  204S Enforcement Section  204T Compensation Section  204U
Procedure Section  204V Appeals Sections  204W  to  204Y Secretary of State:
powers Section  204Z1 IL regulations: general Section  204Z2 Relationship with
other powers

1.204A.4

In this Part—

      “ affordable housing ” means—         social housing within the meaning
of Part 2 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008, and           any other
description of housing that IL regulations may specify;                 “ IL ”
has the meaning given in  subsection (1) ;           “ IL regulations ” means
regulations under this section.

########## The charge

1.204B

1.204B.1

A charging authority in England must, in accordance with IL regulations,
charge IL in respect of development in its area.

1.204B.2

A local planning authority is the charging authority for its area.

1.204B.3

But—

1.204B.3.a

the Council of the Isles of Scilly is the only charging authority for the
Isles of Scilly, and

1.204B.3.b

the Homes and Communities Agency is the charging authority for an area only to
the extent provided in a designation order made under section 13 of the
Housing and Regeneration Act 2008.

1.204B.4

IL regulations may provide for any of the following to be the charging
authority for an area in England in place of the charging authority under
subsection  (2)  or  (3) (a) —

1.204B.4.a

a county council in England,

1.204B.4.b

a district council,

1.204B.4.c

a metropolitan district council, and

1.204B.4.d

a London borough council (within the meaning of TCPA 1990).

1.204B.5

In this section, “local planning authority” has the meaning given by section
15LH  of PCPA 2004, except that a development corporation is a local planning
authority for the purposes of this section only if it is the local planning
authority for the whole of its area for all purposes of Part 2 of PCPA 2004.

1.204B.6

IL regulations may make transitional provision in connection with, or in
anticipation of, any person or body—

1.204B.6.a

becoming a charging authority, or

1.204B.6.b

ceasing to be a charging authority.

########## Joint committees

1.204C

1.204C.1

This section applies if a joint committee that includes a charging authority
is established under section  15J  of PCPA 2004.

1.204C.2

IL regulations may provide that the joint committee is to exercise specified
functions, in respect of the area specified in the agreement under section
15J (1)  of PCPA 2004, on behalf of the charging authority.

1.204C.3

The regulations may make provision corresponding to provisions relating to
joint committees in Part 6 of the Local Government Act 1972 in respect of the
discharge of the specified functions.

########## Liability

1.204D

1.204D.1

Where liability to IL would arise in respect of proposed development (in
accordance with provision made by a charging authority under and by virtue of
section 204B  and IL regulations) a person may assume liability to pay the
levy.

1.204D.2

An assumption of liability—

1.204D.2.a

may be made before development commences, and

1.204D.2.b

must be made in accordance with any provision of IL regulations about the
procedure for assuming liability.

1.204D.3

A person who assumes liability for IL before the commencement of development
becomes liable when development is commenced in reliance on planning
permission.

1.204D.4

IL regulations must make provision for an owner or developer of land or
another specified person to be liable for IL where development is commenced in
reliance on planning permission if—

1.204D.4.a

nobody assumes liability in accordance with the regulations, or

1.204D.4.b

other specified circumstances arise (such as the insolvency or withdrawal of a
person who has assumed liability).

1.204D.5

IL regulations may make provision about—

1.204D.5.a

joint liability (with or without several liability);

1.204D.5.b

liability of partnerships;

1.204D.5.c

assumption of partial liability (and subsection  (4) (a)  applies where
liability has not been wholly assumed);

1.204D.5.d

apportionment of liability (which may include provision for referral to a
specified person or body for determination);

1.204D.5.e

withdrawal of assumption of liability;

1.204D.5.f

cancellation of assumption of liability by a charging authority (in which case
subsection  (4) (a)  applies);

1.204D.5.g

transfer of liability (whether before or after development commences and
whether or not liability has been assumed);

1.204D.5.h

exemption from, or reduction in, liability.

1.204D.6

The amount of any liability for IL is to be calculated by reference to the
charging schedule which has effect at the time when planning permission first
permits the development as a result of which the levy becomes payable.

1.204D.7

IL regulations may make provision for liability for IL to arise where
development which requires planning permission is commenced without it (and
subsection  (6)  is subject to this subsection).

1.204D.8

IL regulations may provide for liability to IL to arise in respect of a
development where—

1.204D.8.a

the development was exempt from IL, or subject to a reduced rate of IL, and

1.204D.8.b

the description or purpose of the development changes.

########## Liability: interpretation of key terms

1.204E

1.204E.1

In section  204D  “development”  means—

1.204E.1.a

anything done by way of or for the purpose of the creation of a new building,

1.204E.1.b

anything done to or in respect of an existing building, or

1.204E.1.c

any change in the use of an existing building or part of a building.

1.204E.2

IL regulations may provide for—

1.204E.2.a

works, or changes in use, of a specified kind not to be treated as
development;

1.204E.2.b

the creation of, or anything done to or in respect of, a structure of a
specified kind to be treated as development.

1.204E.3

IL regulations must include provision for determining when development is
treated as commencing.

1.204E.4

Regulations under subsection  (3)  may, in particular, provide for development
to be treated as commencing when some specified activity or event is
undertaken or occurs, where the activity or event—

1.204E.4.a

is not development within the meaning of subsection  (1) , but

1.204E.4.b

has a specified kind of connection with a development within the meaning of
that subsection.

1.204E.5

IL regulations must define planning permission (which may include planning
permission within the meaning of TCPA 1990 and any other kind of permission or
consent (however called, and whether general or specific)).

1.204E.6

IL regulations must include provision for determining the time at which
planning permission is treated as first permitting development; and the
regulations may, in particular, make provision—

1.204E.6.a

about outline planning permission;

1.204E.6.b

for permission to be treated as having been given at a particular time in the
case of general consents.

1.204E.7

For the purposes of section  204D —

1.204E.7.a

“owner” of land means a person who owns an interest in the land, and

1.204E.7.b

“developer” means a person who is wholly or partly responsible for carrying
out a development.

1.204E.8

IL regulations may make provision for a person to be or not to be treated as
an owner or developer of land in specified circumstances.

########## Charities

1.204F

1.204F.1

IL regulations must provide for an exemption from liability to pay IL in
respect of a development where—

1.204F.1.a

the person who would otherwise be liable to pay IL in respect of the
development is a relevant charity in England and Wales, and

1.204F.1.b

the building or structure in respect of which IL liability would otherwise
arise is to be used wholly or mainly for a charitable purpose of the charity
within the meaning of section 2 of the Charities Act 2011.

1.204F.2

IL regulations may—

1.204F.2.a

provide for an exemption from liability to pay IL where the person who would
otherwise be liable to pay IL in respect of the development is an institution
established for a charitable purpose;

1.204F.2.b

require charging authorities to make arrangements for an exemption from, or
reduction in, liability to pay IL where the person who would otherwise be
liable to pay IL in respect of the development is an institution established
for a charitable purpose.

1.204F.3

Regulations under subsection  (1)  or  (2)  may provide that an exemption or
reduction does not apply if specified conditions are satisfied.

1.204F.4

For the purposes of subsection  (1) , a relevant charity in England and Wales
is an institution which—

1.204F.4.a

is registered in the register of charities kept by the Charity Commission
under section 29 of the Charities Act 2011, or

1.204F.4.b

is a charity within the meaning of section 1(1) of the Charities Act 2011 but
is not required to be registered in the register kept under section 29 of that
Act.

1.204F.5

In subsection  (2) , a charitable purpose is a purpose falling within section
3(1) of the Charities Act 2011; but IL regulations may provide for an
institution of a specified kind to be, or not to be, treated as an institution
established for a charitable purpose.

########## Amount

1.204G

1.204G.1

A charging authority must, in accordance with IL regulations, issue a document
(a “charging schedule”) setting rates, or other criteria, by reference to
which the amount of IL chargeable in respect of development in its area is to
be determined.

1.204G.2

A charging authority, in setting rates or other criteria, must, to the extent
and in the manner specified by IL regulations, seek to ensure that—

1.204G.2.a

the level of affordable housing which is funded by developers and provided in
the authority’s area, and

1.204G.2.b

the level of funding provided by developers of affordable housing provided in
the authority’s area,

can be maintained at a level which, over a specified period, is equal to or
exceeds the level of such housing and funding provided over an earlier
specified period of the same length.

1.204G.3

Subsection  (2)  does not apply if the charging authority considers that
complying with it would make development of the authority’s area economically
unviable.

1.204G.4

The references in subsection  (2)  to the funding of affordable housing by
developers are to its funding by developers through IL or by any other means.

1.204G.5

For the purposes of subsection  (2) , IL regulations may make provision about—

1.204G.5.a

how the level of affordable housing provided in the area is to be measured,
and

1.204G.5.b

how the level of funding provided by developers is to be measured.

1.204G.6

A charging authority, in setting rates or other criteria, must have regard, to
the extent and in the manner specified by IL regulations, to—

1.204G.6.a

matters specified by IL regulations relating to the economic viability of
development (which may include, in particular, actual or potential economic
effects of the imposition of IL);

1.204G.6.b

matters specified by IL regulations relating to the actual or potential
economic effects (including increases in the value of land) of—

1.204G.6.b.i

a development plan (construed in accordance with section 38 of PCPA 2004),

1.204G.6.b.ii

planning permission,

1.204G.6.b.iii

the provision of infrastructure, or

1.204G.6.b.iv

any other matter that may affect the value of land;

1.204G.6.c

the amount of IL, and anything else specified in IL regulations, provided in
connection with development in the authority’s area over such period as may be
specified in IL regulations;

1.204G.6.d

its infrastructure delivery strategy (see section  204Q ).

1.204G.7

IL regulations may make other provision about setting rates or other criteria.

1.204G.8

The regulations may, in particular, permit or require charging authorities in
setting rates or other criteria—

1.204G.8.a

to have regard, to the extent and in the manner specified by the regulations,
to actual or expected administrative expenses in connection with IL;

1.204G.8.b

to have regard, to the extent and in the manner specified by the regulations,
to actual and expected costs of anything other than infrastructure that is
concerned with addressing demands that development places on an area (whether
by reference to lists prepared by virtue of section  204N (7) (a)  or
otherwise);

1.204G.8.c

to have regard, to the extent and in the manner specified by the regulations,
to other actual and expected sources of funding for anything other than
infrastructure that is concerned with addressing demands that development
places on an area;

1.204G.8.d

to have regard, to the extent and in the manner specified by the regulations,
to values used or documents produced for other statutory purposes;

1.204G.8.e

to integrate the process, to the extent and in the manner specified by the
regulations, with processes undertaken for other statutory purposes;

1.204G.8.f

to provide for rates or other criteria to change over time or on the
occurrence of specified events (and, for these purposes, the regulations may
make provision about how and when they are to change);

1.204G.8.g

to produce charging schedules having effect in relation to specified periods
(subject to revision).

1.204G.9

The regulations may permit or require charging schedules to adopt specified
methods of calculation.

1.204G.10

In particular, the regulations may—

1.204G.10.a

permit or require charging schedules to operate by reference to descriptions
or purposes of development;

1.204G.10.b

permit or require charging schedules to operate by reference to any
measurement of the amount or nature of development (whether by reference to
measurements of floor space, to numbers or intended uses of buildings, to
numbers or intended uses of units within buildings, to allocation of space
within buildings or units, to values or expected values or in any other way);

1.204G.10.c

permit or require charging schedules to operate by reference to the nature or
existing use of the place where development is undertaken;

1.204G.10.d

permit or require charging schedules to operate by reference to an index used
for determining a rate of inflation;

1.204G.10.e

permit or require charging schedules to operate by reference to values used or
documents produced for other statutory purposes;

1.204G.10.f

provide, or permit or require provision, for differential rates, which may
include provision for supplementary charges, a nil rate, increased rates or
reductions;

1.204G.10.g

permit or require any threshold below which IL is charged at a nil rate or a
reduced rate to be determined in a specified way, including for it to be
increased or decreased by reference to the costs of development in a charging
authority’s area (and, for these purposes, the regulations may require the
charging authority to publish information relating to the costs of development
in its area).

1.204G.11

The regulations may require a charging authority to provide estimates in
connection with the IL chargeable in respect of development (including
estimates of the amount of IL that is chargeable and estimates in connection
with any payments in a form other than money permitted or required under
section 204R(4)).

1.204G.12

A charging authority may revise or replace a charging schedule.

1.204G.13

Subsections  (2)  to  (10)  and sections  204H  to  204L  apply in relation to
a revision or replacement of a charging schedule as they apply in relation to
a charging schedule.

########## Charging schedule: consultation and evidence

1.204H

1.204H.1

A charging authority may consult, or take other steps, in connection with the
preparation of a charging schedule (subject to IL regulations).

1.204H.2

A charging authority must use appropriate available evidence to inform the
charging authority’s preparation of a charging schedule.

1.204H.3

IL regulations may make provision about the application of subsection  (2)
including, in particular—

1.204H.3.a

provision as to evidence that is to be taken to be appropriate,

1.204H.3.b

provision as to evidence that is to be taken to be not appropriate,

1.204H.3.c

provision as to evidence that is to be taken to be available,

1.204H.3.d

provision as to evidence that is to be taken to be not available,

1.204H.3.e

provision as to how evidence is, and as to how evidence is not, to be used,

1.204H.3.f

provision as to evidence that is, and as to evidence that is not, to be used,

1.204H.3.g

provision as to evidence that may, and as to evidence that need not, be used,
and

1.204H.3.h

provision as to how the use of evidence is to inform the preparation of a
charging schedule.

########## Charging schedule: examination

1.204I

1.204I.1

Before approving a charging schedule a charging authority must appoint a
person (“the examiner”) to examine a draft.

1.204I.2

The charging authority must appoint someone who, in the opinion of the
authority—

1.204I.2.a

is independent of the charging authority, and

1.204I.2.b

has appropriate qualifications and experience.

1.204I.3

The charging authority may, with the agreement of the examiner, appoint
persons to assist the examiner.

1.204I.4

In this section and section  204J , “the drafting requirements”  means the
requirements of this Part and IL regulations (including the requirements to
have regard to the matters listed in  section 204G (2) ,  (6)  and  (8) ), so
far as relevant to the drafting of the schedule.

1.204I.5

The examiner must consider whether the drafting requirements have been
complied with and—

1.204I.5.a

make recommendations in accordance with section  204J , and

1.204I.5.b

give reasons for the recommendations.

1.204I.6

The charging authority must publish the recommendations and reasons.

1.204I.7

IL regulations must require a charging authority to allow anyone who makes
representations about a draft charging schedule to be heard by the examiner;
and the regulations may make provision about timing and procedure.

1.204I.8

IL regulations may make provision for examiners to reconsider their decisions
with a view to correcting errors (before or after the approval of a charging
schedule).

1.204I.9

The charging authority may withdraw a draft charging schedule.

########## Charging schedule: examiner’s recommendations

1.204J

1.204J.1

This section applies in relation to the examination, under section  204I , of
a draft charging schedule.

1.204J.2

If the examiner considers—

1.204J.2.a

that there is any respect in which the drafting requirements have not been
complied with, and

1.204J.2.b

that the non-compliance with the drafting requirements cannot be remedied by
the making of modifications to the draft,

the examiner must recommend that the draft be rejected.

1.204J.3

Subsection  (4)  applies if the examiner considers—

1.204J.3.a

that there is any respect in which the drafting requirements have not been
complied with, and

1.204J.3.b

that the non-compliance with the drafting requirements could be remedied by
the making of modifications to the draft.

1.204J.4

The examiner must—

1.204J.4.a

specify the respects in which the drafting requirements have not been complied
with,

1.204J.4.b

recommend modifications that the examiner considers sufficient and necessary
to remedy that non-compliance, and

1.204J.4.c

recommend that the draft be approved with—

1.204J.4.c.i

those modifications, or

1.204J.4.c.ii

other modifications sufficient and necessary to remedy that non-compliance.

1.204J.5

Subject to subsections  (2)  to  (4) , the examiner must recommend that the
draft be approved.

1.204J.6

If the examiner makes recommendations under subsection  (4) , the examiner may
recommend other modifications with which the draft should be approved in the
event that it is approved.

1.204J.7

If the examiner makes recommendations under subsection  (5) , the examiner may
recommend modifications with which the draft should be approved in the event
that it is approved.

########## Charging schedule: approval

1.204K

1.204K.1

A charging authority may approve a charging schedule only if—

1.204K.1.a

the examiner makes recommendations under section  204J (4)  or  (5) , and

1.204K.1.b

the charging authority has had regard to those recommendations and the
examiner’s reasons for them.

1.204K.2

Accordingly, a charging authority may not approve a charging schedule if,
under section  204J (2) , the examiner recommends rejection.

1.204K.3

If the examiner makes recommendations under section  204J (4) , the charging
authority may approve the charging schedule only if it does so with
modifications that are sufficient and necessary to remedy the non-compliance
specified under section  204J (4) (a)  (although those modifications need not
be the ones recommended under section  204J (4) (b) ).

1.204K.4

If a charging authority approves a charging schedule, it may do so with all or
none, or some one or more, of the modifications (if any) recommended under
section  204J (6)  or  (7) .

1.204K.5

The modifications with which a charging schedule may be approved include only—

1.204K.5.a

modifications required by subsection  (3) , and

1.204K.5.b

modifications allowed by subsection  (4) .

1.204K.6

A charging authority must approve a charging schedule—

1.204K.6.a

at a meeting of the authority, and

1.204K.6.b

by a majority of votes of members present.

1.204K.7

Subsection  (8)  applies if—

1.204K.7.a

the examiner makes recommendations under section  204J (4) , and

1.204K.7.b

the charging schedule is approved by the charging authority.

1.204K.8

The charging authority must publish a report setting out how the charging
schedule as approved remedies the non-compliance specified under section  204J
(4) (a) .

1.204K.9

IL regulations may make provision about the form or contents of a report under
subsection  (8) .

1.204K.10

IL regulations may make provision for the correction of errors in a charging
schedule after approval.

1.204K.11

In this section “examiner”  means the examiner under section  204I .

########## Charging schedule: application and effect

1.204L

1.204L.1

A charging schedule approved under section  204K  may not take effect before
the charging authority issues the schedule (by publishing it).

1.204L.2

IL regulations may, subject to subsection  (1) , make provision about when a
charging schedule may, must or may not take effect.

1.204L.3

IL regulations may make provision about publication of a charging schedule
after approval.

1.204L.4

The provision that may be made under subsection  (3)  includes provision about
information or documents that must be published alongside the charging
schedule.

########## Charging schedule: due date

1.204M

1.204M.1

IL regulations may make provision as to when a charging authority must issue a
charging schedule.

1.204M.2

But the regulations may not require a charging authority to issue a charging
schedule before the end of the period of 12 months beginning with the day on
which the Secretary of State publishes, or provides to the authority, written
notice that it will be required to issue a charging schedule.

1.204M.3

If a charging authority does not issue its charging schedule in accordance
with provision made under subsection  (1) , the Secretary of State may appoint
a person to prepare and issue it on behalf of the charging authority.

1.204M.4

IL regulations may make provision about—

1.204M.4.a

procedures for appointing a person under subsection  (3) ,

1.204M.4.b

conditions which must be met before such an appointment may be made,

1.204M.4.c

procedures which must be followed by the person in preparing and issuing the
charging schedule,

1.204M.4.d

the appointment of assistants for the person,

1.204M.4.e

circumstances in which the person may be replaced,

1.204M.4.f

duties of a charging authority where a person is appointed to act on its
behalf under subsection  (3) , and

1.204M.4.g

liability for costs incurred as a result of the appointment of the person.

########## Application

1.204N

1.204N.1

Subject to this section and sections  204O (1)  to  (3) ,  204P (2)  and  (3)
, and  204T (5) , IL regulations must require the authority that charges IL to
apply it, or cause it to be applied, to supporting the development of an area
by funding the provision, improvement, replacement, operation or maintenance
of infrastructure.

1.204N.2

IL regulations may make provision about the extent to which the IL paid to a
charging authority may or must be applied to funding the provision,
improvement, replacement, operation or maintenance of infrastructure of a
particular description.

1.204N.3

In this section (except  subsection (4) ) and sections  204G ,  204O (2) ,
204P (2) ,  204Q  and  204Z  “infrastructure”  includes—

1.204N.3.a

roads and other transport facilities,

1.204N.3.b

flood defences,

1.204N.3.c

schools and other educational facilities,

1.204N.3.d

medical facilities,

1.204N.3.e

sporting and recreational facilities,

1.204N.3.f

open spaces, 

1.204N.3.g

affordable housing,

1.204N.3.h

facilities and equipment for emergency and rescue services,

1.204N.3.i

facilities and spaces which—

1.204N.3.i.i

preserve or improve the natural environment, or

1.204N.3.i.ii

enable or facilitate enjoyment of the natural environment, and

1.204N.3.j

facilities and spaces for the mitigation of, and adaptation to, climate
change.

1.204N.4

The regulations may amend this section so as to—

1.204N.4.a

add, remove or vary an entry in the list of matters included within the
meaning of “infrastructure”;

1.204N.4.b

list matters excluded from the meaning of “infrastructure”.

1.204N.5

The regulations may make provision about circumstances in which authorities
may apply a specified amount of IL, or cause a specified amount of IL to be
applied, towards specified purposes which are not mentioned in subsection  (1)
.

1.204N.6

The regulations may specify—

1.204N.6.a

works, installations and other facilities whose provision, improvement or
replacement may or is to be, or may not be, funded by IL,

1.204N.6.b

maintenance activities and operational activities (including operational
activities of a promotional kind) in connection with infrastructure that may
or are to be, or may not be, funded by IL,

1.204N.6.c

things within section  204O (2) (b)  that may or are to be, or may not be,
funded by IL passed to a person in discharge of a duty under section  204O (1)
,

1.204N.6.d

things within section  204P (2) (b)  that may or are to be, or may not be,
funded by IL to which provision under section  204P (2)  relates,

1.204N.6.e

criteria for determining the areas that may benefit from funding by IL, and

1.204N.6.f

what is to be, or not to be, treated as funding.

1.204N.7

The regulations may—

1.204N.7.a

require charging authorities to prepare and publish a list of what is to be,
or may be, wholly or partly funded by IL;

1.204N.7.b

include provision about the procedure to be followed in preparing a list
(which may include provision for consultation or for the appointment of an
independent person or both);

1.204N.7.c

include provision about the circumstances in which a charging authority may
and may not apply IL to anything not included on the list;

1.204N.7.d

permit or require the list to be prepared and published as part of an
infrastructure delivery strategy (see section  204Q ).

1.204N.8

In making provision about funding the regulations may, in particular—

1.204N.8.a

permit IL to be used to reimburse expenditure already incurred;

1.204N.8.b

permit IL to be reserved for expenditure that may be incurred in the future;

1.204N.8.c

permit IL to be applied (either generally or subject to limits set by or
determined in accordance with the regulations) to administrative expenses in
connection with infrastructure or anything within section  204O (2) (b)  or
204P (2) (b)  or in connection with IL;

1.204N.8.d

include provision for the giving of loans, guarantees or indemnities;

1.204N.8.e

make provision about the application of IL where anything to which it was to
be applied no longer requires funding.

1.204N.9

The regulations may—

1.204N.9.a

require a charging authority to account separately, and in accordance with the
regulations, for IL received or due;

1.204N.9.b

require a charging authority to monitor the use made and to be made of IL in
its area;

1.204N.9.c

require a charging authority to report on actual or expected charging,
collection and application of IL;

1.204N.9.d

permit a charging authority to cause money to be applied in respect of things
done outside its area;

1.204N.9.e

permit a charging authority or other body (including a collecting authority
under section  204R (7) ) to spend or retain money;

1.204N.9.f

permit a charging authority to pass money to another body (and in paragraphs
(a) to (e) a reference to a charging authority includes a reference to a body
to which a charging authority passes money in reliance on this paragraph).

########## Duty to pass receipts to other persons

1.204O

1.204O.1

IL regulations may require that IL received in respect of development in an
area is to be passed by the charging authority that charged the IL to a person
other than that authority.

1.204O.2

IL regulations must contain provision to secure that money passed to a person
in discharge of a duty under subsection  (1)  is used to support the
development of the area to which the duty relates, or of any part of that
area, by funding—

1.204O.2.a

the provision, improvement, replacement, operation or maintenance of
infrastructure, or

1.204O.2.b

anything else that is concerned with addressing demands that development
places on an area.

1.204O.3

The regulations may make provision about circumstances in which a specified
amount of the money may be used for specified purposes which are not mentioned
in subsection  (2) .

1.204O.4

A duty under subsection  (1)  may relate to—

1.204O.4.a

the whole of a charging authority’s area or the whole of the combined area of
two or more charging authorities, or

1.204O.4.b

part only of such an area or combined area.

1.204O.5

IL regulations may make provision about the persons to whom IL may or must, or
may not, be passed in discharge of a duty under subsection  (1) .

1.204O.6

A duty under subsection  (1)  may relate—

1.204O.6.a

to all IL (if any) received in respect of the area to which the duty relates,
or

1.204O.6.b

such part of that IL as is specified in, or determined under or in accordance
with, IL regulations.

1.204O.7

IL regulations may make provision in connection with the timing of payments in
discharge of a duty under subsection  (1) .

1.204O.8

IL regulations may, in relation to IL passed to a person in discharge of a
duty under subsection  (1) , make provision about—

1.204O.8.a

accounting for the IL,

1.204O.8.b

monitoring its use,

1.204O.8.c

reporting on its use,

1.204O.8.d

responsibilities of charging authorities for things done by the person in
connection with the IL,

1.204O.8.e

recovery of the IL, and any income or profits accruing in respect of it or
from its application, in cases where—

1.204O.8.e.i

anything to be funded by it has not been provided, or

1.204O.8.e.ii

it has been misapplied,

including recovery of sums or other assets representing it or any such income
or profits, and

1.204O.8.f

use of anything recovered in cases where—

1.204O.8.f.i

anything to be funded by the IL has not been provided, or

1.204O.8.f.ii

the IL has been misapplied.

1.204O.9

This section does not limit section  204N (9) (f) .

########## Use of IL in an area to which section 

1.204P

1.204P.1

Subsection (2) applies where—

1.204P.1.a

there is an area to which a particular duty under section  204O (1)  relates,
and

1.204P.1.b

there is also an area to which that duty does not relate (“the uncovered
area”).

1.204P.2

IL regulations may provide that the charging authority that charges IL
received in respect of development in the uncovered area may apply the IL, or
cause it to be applied, to—

1.204P.2.a

support development by funding the provision, improvement, replacement,
operation or maintenance of infrastructure, or

1.204P.2.b

support development of the uncovered area, or of any part of that area, by
funding anything else that is concerned with addressing demands that
development places on an area.

1.204P.3

The regulations may make provision about circumstances in which the authority
may apply a specified amount of IL, or cause a specified amount of IL to be
applied, towards specified purposes which are not mentioned in subsection  (2)
.

1.204P.4

Provision under subsection  (2)  may relate to the whole, or part only, of the
uncovered area.

1.204P.5

Provision under subsection  (2)  may relate—

1.204P.5.a

to all IL (if any) received in respect of the area to which the provision
relates, or

1.204P.5.b

such part of that IL as is specified in, or determined under or in accordance
with, IL regulations.

########## Infrastructure delivery strategy

1.204Q

1.204Q.1

A charging authority must prepare and publish an infrastructure delivery
strategy for its area.

1.204Q.2

The infrastructure delivery strategy must—

1.204Q.2.a

set out the strategic plans (however expressed) of the charging authority in
relation to the application of IL, and

1.204Q.2.b

include such other information as may be prescribed by IL regulations.

1.204Q.3

The infrastructure delivery strategy may and, if required by IL regulations,
must set out the plans (however expressed) of the charging authority in
relation to the provision, improvement, replacement, operation and maintenance
of infrastructure in the authority’s area.

1.204Q.4

The charging authority may at any time prepare and publish a revision to, or
replacement of, its infrastructure delivery strategy.

1.204Q.5

The charging authority must prepare and publish a revision to, or replacement
of, its infrastructure delivery strategy if it is necessary or expedient in
consequence of the publication, revision or replacement of a charging schedule
in relation to the charging authority’s area.

1.204Q.6

IL regulations must make provision for the independent examination of—

1.204Q.6.a

infrastructure delivery strategies, and

1.204Q.6.b

revisions to, or replacements of, such strategies.

1.204Q.7

The regulations must make provision for the examination to be combined with—

1.204Q.7.a

an examination under this Part in relation to a charging schedule, or

1.204Q.7.b

an examination under Part 2 of PCPA 2004 in relation to a local plan.

1.204Q.8

The regulations may, in particular, make provision—

1.204Q.8.a

about who is to carry out the examination;

1.204Q.8.b

about what the examiner must, may or may not consider;

1.204Q.8.c

about the procedure to be followed;

1.204Q.8.d

about recommendations, or other consequences, arising from or in connection
with the examination;

1.204Q.8.e

about circumstances in which an examination is not required;

1.204Q.8.f

applying, or corresponding to, any provision made by or under this Part
relating to an examination in relation to a charging schedule (with or without
modifications).

1.204Q.9

The charging authority must have regard to any guidance published by the
Secretary of State in relation to the preparation, publication, revision or
replacement of infrastructure delivery strategies.

1.204Q.10

IL regulations may provide that a public authority other than the charging
authority is to exercise a function under this section in place of, or on
behalf of, the charging authority.

1.204Q.11

IL regulations must make provision about—

1.204Q.11.a

the form and content of infrastructure delivery strategies;

1.204Q.11.b

the publication of infrastructure delivery strategies and any related
documents;

1.204Q.11.c

the procedures to be followed in relation to the preparation, revision or
replacement of infrastructure delivery strategies;

1.204Q.11.d

consultation in connection with infrastructure delivery strategies.

1.204Q.12

IL regulations may make provision about—

1.204Q.12.a

the timing of any steps in connection with the preparation, publication,
revision or replacement of infrastructure delivery strategies;

1.204Q.12.b

the evidence required to inform the preparation of infrastructure delivery
strategies;

1.204Q.12.c

the preparation of joint infrastructure delivery strategies;

1.204Q.12.d

the period of time for which infrastructure delivery strategies are valid.

########## Collection

1.204R

1.204R.1

IL regulations must include provision about the collection of IL.

1.204R.2

The regulations may make provision for payment—

1.204R.2.a

on account;

1.204R.2.b

by instalments.

1.204R.3

The regulations may make provision about repayment (with or without interest)
in cases of overpayment.

1.204R.4

The regulations may make provision about payment in forms other than money
(such as providing, improving, replacing, operating or maintaining
infrastructure, making land available, carrying out works or providing
services), including about what provision may or must be made by a charging
authority in its charging schedule or elsewhere if payment in a form other
than money is to be permitted or required.

1.204R.5

So long as affordable housing falls within the meaning of “infrastructure”
given by  section 204N (3) , regulations under subsection  (4)  must permit
charging authorities, in the circumstances and to the extent specified in the
regulations, to require IL to be paid by providing affordable housing on the
development site.

1.204R.6

In subsection  (5)  “ development site ” means the site on which the
development in respect of which the IL is charged takes place.

1.204R.7

The regulations may permit or require a charging authority or other public
authority to collect IL charged by another authority; and section  204N (9)
(a)  and  (c)  apply to a collecting authority in respect of collection as to
a charging authority.

1.204R.8

Regulations under this section may make provision corresponding to or applying
(with or without modifications) any enactment relating to the collection of a
tax.

1.204R.9

Regulations under this section may make provision about the source of payments
in respect of Crown interests.

########## Enforcement

1.204S

1.204S.1

IL regulations must include provision about enforcement of IL.

1.204S.2

The regulations must make provision about the consequences of failure to
assume liability, late payment and failure to pay.

1.204S.3

The regulations may make provision about the consequences of failure to give a
notice or to comply with another procedure under IL regulations in connection
with IL.

1.204S.4

The regulations may, in particular, include provision—

1.204S.4.a

for the payment of interest;

1.204S.4.b

for the imposition of a penalty or surcharge;

1.204S.4.c

for the suspension or cancellation of a decision relating to planning
permission;

1.204S.4.d

enabling an authority to prohibit development pending assumption of liability
for IL or pending payment of IL;

1.204S.4.e

conferring a power of entry onto land;

1.204S.4.f

creating a criminal offence (including, in particular, offences relating to
evasion or attempted evasion or to the provision of false or misleading
information or failure to provide information, and offences relating to the
prevention or investigation of other offences created by the regulations);

1.204S.4.g

conferring power to prosecute an offence;

1.204S.4.h

for enforcement of sums owed (whether by action on a debt, by distraint
against goods or in any other way);

1.204S.4.i

conferring jurisdiction on a court to grant injunctive or other relief to
enforce a provision of the regulations (including a provision included in
reliance on this section);

1.204S.4.j

for enforcement in the case of death or insolvency of a person liable for IL.

1.204S.5

IL regulations may include provision (whether or not in the context of late
payment or failure to pay) about registration or notification of actual or
potential liability to IL.

1.204S.6

IL regulations may make provision for the prohibition or restriction of the
use or occupation of all or part of the site of, or anything created in the
course of, a development pending payment of IL in respect of the development.

1.204S.7

IL regulations may include provision—

1.204S.7.a

for the creation of local land charges;

1.204S.7.b

for the registration of local land charges;

1.204S.7.c

for enforcement of local land charges (including, in particular, for
enforcement—

1.204S.7.c.i

against successive owners, and

1.204S.7.c.ii

by way of sale or other disposal with consent of a court);

1.204S.7.d

for making entries in statutory registers;

1.204S.7.e

for the cancellation of charges and entries.

1.204S.8

Regulations under this section may make provision corresponding to or applying
(with or without modifications) any enactment relating to the enforcement of a
tax.

1.204S.9

Regulations under this section may provide that any interest, penalty or
surcharge payable by virtue of the regulations is to be treated for the
purposes of sections  204N  to  204U  as if it were IL.

1.204S.10

The regulations providing for a surcharge or penalty must ensure that no
surcharge or penalty in respect of an amount of IL exceeds the higher of—

1.204S.10.a

40% of that amount, and

1.204S.10.b

£50,000.

1.204S.11

But the regulations may provide for more than one surcharge or penalty to be
imposed in relation to an IL charge.

1.204S.12

The regulations may not authorise entry to a private dwelling without a
warrant issued by a justice of the peace.

1.204S.13

Regulations under this section creating a criminal offence may not provide
for—

1.204S.13.a

imprisonment for a term exceeding the maximum term for summary offences, on
summary conviction for an offence triable summarily only,

1.204S.13.b

imprisonment for a term exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court,
on summary conviction for an offence triable either way, or

1.204S.13.c

imprisonment for a term exceeding 2 years, on conviction on indictment.

1.204S.14

In subsection  (13) (a) , “ the maximum term for summary offences ” means—

1.204S.14.a

in relation to an offence committed before the time when section 281(5) of the
Criminal Justice Act 2003 comes into force, 6 months;

1.204S.14.b

in relation to an offence committed after that time, 51 weeks.

1.204S.15

In this Part a reference to administrative expenses in connection with IL
includes a reference to enforcement expenses.

########## Compensation

1.204T

1.204T.1

IL regulations may require a charging authority or other public authority to
pay compensation in respect of loss or damage suffered as a result of
enforcement action.

1.204T.2

In this section, “enforcement action”  means action taken under regulations
under section  204S , including—

1.204T.2.a

the suspension or cancellation of a decision relating to planning permission,

1.204T.2.b

the prohibition of development pending assumption of liability for IL or
pending payment of IL, and

1.204T.2.c

the prohibition or restriction of the use or occupation of all or part of the
site of, or anything created in the course of, a development pending payment
of IL.

1.204T.3

The regulations must not require payment of compensation—

1.204T.3.a

to a person who has failed to satisfy a liability to pay IL, or

1.204T.3.b

in other circumstances specified by the regulations.

1.204T.4

Regulations under this section may make provision about—

1.204T.4.a

the time and manner in which a claim for compensation is to be made, and

1.204T.4.b

the sums, or the method of determining the sums, payable by way of
compensation.

1.204T.5

IL regulations may permit or require a charging authority to apply IL (either
generally or subject to limits set by or determined in accordance with the
regulations) for expenditure incurred under this section.

1.204T.6

A dispute about compensation may be referred to and determined by the Upper
Tribunal.

1.204T.7

In relation to the determination of any such question, the provisions of
section 4 of the Land Compensation Act 1961 apply subject to any necessary
modifications and to the provisions of IL regulations.

########## Procedure

1.204U

1.204U.1

IL regulations may include provision about procedures to be followed in
connection with IL.

1.204U.2

In particular, the regulations may make provision about—

1.204U.2.a

procedures to be followed by a charging authority in relation to charging IL;

1.204U.2.b

consultation;

1.204U.2.c

valuation, including provision about—

1.204U.2.c.i

what factors may, must or may not be taken into account in a valuation;

1.204U.2.c.ii

who may carry out a valuation;

1.204U.2.c.iii

the procedure for a valuation;

1.204U.2.c.iv

any documentation that must be prepared in connection with a valuation;

1.204U.2.c.v

the payment of fees in relation to a valuation;

1.204U.2.c.vi

the consequences of failing to carry out a valuation, or to prepare any
documentation in connection with a valuation, in accordance with the
regulations;

1.204U.2.d

the resolution of disputes;

1.204U.2.e

the time by or at which anything may or must be done;

1.204U.2.f

reports (including the publication or other treatment of reports);

1.204U.2.g

methods of publication of documents;

1.204U.2.h

making documents available for inspection;

1.204U.2.i

providing copies of documents (with or without charge);

1.204U.2.j

the form and content of documents;

1.204U.2.k

giving notice;

1.204U.2.l

serving notices or other documents;

1.204U.2.m

examinations to be held in public in the course of setting or revising rates
or other criteria or of preparing lists;

1.204U.2.n

the terms and conditions of appointment of independent persons;

1.204U.2.o

remuneration and expenses of independent persons (which may be required to be
paid by the Secretary of State or by a charging authority);

1.204U.2.p

other costs in connection with examinations;

1.204U.2.q

reimbursement of expenditure incurred by the Secretary of State (including
provision for enforcement);

1.204U.2.r

apportionment of costs;

1.204U.2.s

combining procedures in connection with IL with procedures for another purpose
of a charging authority (including a purpose of that authority in another
capacity);

1.204U.2.t

procedures to be followed in connection with actual or potential liability for
IL.

1.204U.3

IL regulations may make provision about the procedure to be followed in
respect of an exemption from IL or a reduction of IL; in particular, the
regulations may include provision—

1.204U.3.a

about the procedure for determining whether any conditions are satisfied;

1.204U.3.b

requiring a charging authority or other person to notify specified persons of
any exemption or reduction;

1.204U.3.c

requiring a charging authority or other person to keep a record of any
exemption or reduction;

1.204U.3.d

about what provision may or must be made by a charging authority in its
charging schedule or elsewhere in connection with exemptions or reductions.

1.204U.4

A provision of this Part conferring express power to make procedural provision
in a specified context includes, in particular, power to make provision about
the matters specified in subsection (2).

1.204U.5

A power in this Part to make provision about publishing something includes a
power to make provision about making it available for inspection.

1.204U.6

Sections 229 to 231 do not apply to this Part (but IL regulations may make
similar provision).

########## Appeals

1.204V

1.204V.1

IL regulations may make provision about appeals in connection with IL.

1.204V.2

Regulations under this section may, in particular, make provision about—

1.204V.2.a

who may make an appeal,

1.204V.2.b

the grounds upon which an appeal may be made,

1.204V.2.c

the court, tribunal or other person who is to determine an appeal,

1.204V.2.d

the period within which a right of appeal may be exercised,

1.204V.2.e

the procedure on an appeal, and

1.204V.2.f

the payment of fees, and award of costs, in relation to an appeal.

1.204V.3

IL regulations must provide for a right of appeal on a question of fact in
relation to the application of methods for calculating IL (including any
questions in relation to valuation).

1.204V.4

In any proceedings for judicial review of a decision on an appeal, the
defendant is to be such person as is specified in the regulations (and the
regulations may also specify a person who is not to be the defendant for these
purposes).

########## Secretary of State: guidance

1.204W

The Secretary of State may give guidance to a charging authority or other
public authority (including an examiner appointed under this Part) about any
matter connected with IL; and the authority must have regard to the guidance.

########## Secretary of State: power to permit alteration of IL rates and thresholds

1.204X

1.204X.1

Subsections  (2)  to  (4)  apply in relation to a charging authority—

1.204X.1.a

if the Secretary of State considers that—

1.204X.1.a.i

the economic viability of development, or development of a particular
description, in the charging authority’s area is significantly impaired, or

1.204X.1.a.ii

there is a substantial risk that it will become significantly impaired,

as a result of the IL which is or will be chargeable in respect of development
in that area, or

1.204X.1.b

in any other circumstances that IL regulations may specify.

1.204X.2

The Secretary of State may publish a notice which permits the charging
authority, during a period specified in the notice, to—

1.204X.2.a

amend its charging schedule so as to reduce rates of IL, or increase any
threshold below which IL is charged at a nil or a reduced rate—

1.204X.2.a.i

in accordance with the provisions of the notice, and

1.204X.2.a.ii

for no longer than a period specified in the notice;

1.204X.2.b

amend its charging schedule so as to cancel, or delay for no longer than a
period specified in the notice—

1.204X.2.b.i

any increase in rates of IL, or

1.204X.2.b.ii

any decrease in a threshold below which IL is charged at a nil or a reduced
rate,

which is to take place under the authority’s charging schedule;

1.204X.2.c

cancel, or delay for no longer than a period specified in the notice, the
issue of the authority’s charging schedule, or any revision or replacement of
the authority’s charging schedule, which—

1.204X.2.c.i

has been approved under section 204K,

1.204X.2.c.ii

would result in an increase in rates of IL or a decrease in a threshold below
which IL is charged at a nil or a reduced rate, but

1.204X.2.c.iii

has not yet taken effect.

1.204X.3

The Secretary of State may include provision in a notice under subsection
(2)(a)(i) which confers a discretionary power on the charging authority—

1.204X.3.a

with regards to how it can amend its charging schedule for the purposes of
subsection (2)(a), or

1.204X.3.b

to allow for the amount of any liability to IL in respect of a development,
which was first permitted by planning permission prior to the publication of
the notice, to be recalculated by reference to the charging schedule as
amended in accordance with the provisions of the notice (notwithstanding
section  204D (6) ).

1.204X.4

Section  204G (13)  does not apply in relation to an amendment of a charging
schedule under subsection (2).

1.204X.5

IL regulations may specify—

1.204X.5.a

criteria which must be met, or

1.204X.5.b

procedures which must be followed,

in order for a charging authority to amend its charging schedule under
subsection  (2) .

1.204X.6

IL regulations may restrict the exercise of the power in subsection  (2) ,
including by specifying the extent to which rates may be reduced, or
thresholds may be increased, under subsection  (2) (a).

1.204X.7

IL regulations may make consequential, transitional, transitory or saving
provision in connection with, or in anticipation of, permission being given
under subsection  (2) .

########## Secretary of State: power to require review of charging schedules

1.204Y

1.204Y.1

The Secretary of State may direct a charging authority to review its charging
schedule—

1.204Y.1.a

if the Secretary of State considers that—

1.204Y.1.a.i

the economic viability of development, or development of a particular
description, in the charging authority’s area is significantly impaired, or

1.204Y.1.a.ii

there is a substantial risk that it will become significantly impaired,

as a result of the IL which is or will be chargeable in respect of development
in that area,

1.204Y.1.b

if the Secretary of State considers that a significant period of time has
elapsed since the later of the time that—

1.204Y.1.b.i

the schedule was issued,

1.204Y.1.b.ii

the schedule was last reviewed,

1.204Y.1.b.iii

the schedule was last revised, and

1.204Y.1.b.iv

the schedule was last replaced, or

1.204Y.1.c

in any other circumstances that IL regulations may specify.

1.204Y.2

If a charging authority is directed to review its charging schedule under
subsection  (1) , it must—

1.204Y.2.a

consider whether to revise or replace the charging schedule under section
204G (12) , and

1.204Y.2.b

notify the Secretary of State of its decision with reasons.

1.204Y.3

If the charging authority decides to revise or replace the charging schedule,
it must do so within a reasonable time.

1.204Y.4

If a charging authority has not complied with a direction given under
subsection  (1)  within a reasonable time and to a standard which the
Secretary of State considers adequate, the Secretary of State may appoint a
person to do so on behalf of the charging authority.

1.204Y.5

If a person appointed under subsection  (4)  decides that the charging
schedule should be revised or replaced, the charging authority must revise or
replace the schedule accordingly within a reasonable time.

1.204Y.6

If the charging authority fails to revise or replace the charging schedule in
accordance with subsection  (3)  or  (5) , the Secretary of State may appoint
a person to do so on behalf of the charging authority.

1.204Y.7

IL regulations may make provision about—

1.204Y.7.a

procedures for appointing a person under subsection  (4)  or  (6) ,

1.204Y.7.b

conditions which must be met before such an appointment may be made,

1.204Y.7.c

procedures which must be followed by the person in complying with a direction
given under subsection  (1)  or revising or replacing the charging schedule
under subsection  (6) ,

1.204Y.7.d

circumstances in which the person may be replaced,

1.204Y.7.e

duties of a charging authority where a person is appointed to act on its
behalf under subsection  (4)  or  (6) ,

1.204Y.7.f

liability for costs incurred as a result of the appointment of the person, and

1.204Y.7.g

what constitutes a reasonable time under subsections  (3)  to  (5) .

########## Parliamentary scrutiny: affordable housing

1.204Z

1.204Z.1

The Secretary of State must prepare a report which—

1.204Z.1.a

provides information, in relation to each charging authority which charges IL
in respect of development in its area, about the amount of affordable housing
provision that has been funded by IL charged by that authority,

1.204Z.1.b

assesses whether the charging of IL has resulted in more or less affordable
housing being available in areas in respect of which IL is charged than would
otherwise be the case, and

1.204Z.1.c

sets out such other information as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate in connection with the effect of IL on the provision, improvement,
replacement, operation or maintenance of affordable housing or other
infrastructure.

1.204Z.2

The Secretary of State must lay the report before each House of Parliament
before the end of the period of 5 years beginning with the date on which the
first charging schedule takes effect under this Part.

1.204Z.3

The Secretary of State must publish the report as soon as is reasonably
practicable after it has been laid before each House of Parliament.

########## Regulations: general

1.204Z1

1.204Z1.1

IL regulations—

1.204Z1.1.a

may make provision that applies generally or only to specified cases,
circumstances or areas,

1.204Z1.1.b

may make different provision for different cases, circumstances or areas,

1.204Z1.1.c

may disapply any provision made by or under this Part in relation to an area,
or a charging authority, specified or described in the regulations,

1.204Z1.1.d

may make provision requiring the provision of information in connection with
IL,

1.204Z1.1.e

may provide, or allow a charging schedule to provide, for exceptions,

1.204Z1.1.f

may confer, or allow a charging schedule to confer, a discretionary power on
the Secretary of State, a local authority or another specified person,

1.204Z1.1.g

may make provision treating CIL as if it were IL,

1.204Z1.1.h

may apply an enactment, with or without modifications, and

1.204Z1.1.i

may include provision of a kind permitted by section 232(3)(b) (and
incidental, supplemental or consequential provision may include provision
disapplying, modifying the effect of or amending an enactment).

1.204Z1.2

IL regulations are to be made by statutory instrument.

1.204Z1.3

A statutory instrument containing IL regulations may not be made unless a
draft has been laid before and approved by a resolution of the House of
Commons

########## Relationship with other powers

1.204Z2

1.204Z2.1

IL regulations may include provision about how the following powers are to be
used, or are not to be used—

1.204Z2.1.a

Part 11 (Community Infrastructure Levy) (including any power conferred by CIL
regulations under that Part),

1.204Z2.1.b

section 70 of TCPA 1990 (planning permission),

1.204Z2.1.c

section 106 of TCPA 1990 (planning obligations) (including provision about
obtaining sums under subsection (1)(d) of that section for use in connection
with IL), and

1.204Z2.1.d

section 278 of the Highways Act 1980 (execution of works).

1.204Z2.2

IL regulations may include provision about the exercise of any other power
relating to planning or development.

1.204Z2.3

IL regulations may, in particular, provide that—

1.204Z2.3.a

a specified matter may not, or may only, constitute a reason for granting
planning permission for development in specified circumstances;

1.204Z2.3.b

planning permission for development may not, or may only, be granted subject
to a condition which is of a specified description.

1.204Z2.4

The Secretary of State may give guidance to a charging or other authority
about how a power relating to planning or development is to be exercised; and
authorities must have regard to the guidance.

1.204Z2.5

Provision may be made under subsection  (1)  to  (3) , and guidance may be
given under subsection  (4) , only if the Secretary of State thinks it
necessary or expedient—

1.204Z2.5.a

in consequence of, or to supplement, provision made under section  204Z1 (1)
(c) ,

1.204Z2.5.b

for delivering the overall purpose of IL mentioned in section  204A (2) ,

1.204Z2.5.c

for enhancing the effectiveness, or increasing the use, of IL regulations,

1.204Z2.5.d

for preventing agreements, undertakings or other transactions from being used
to undermine or circumvent IL regulations,

1.204Z2.5.e

for preventing agreements, undertakings or other transactions from being used
to achieve a purpose that the Secretary of State thinks would better be
achieved through the application of IL regulations, or

1.204Z2.5.f

for preventing or restricting the imposition of burdens, the making of
agreements or the giving of undertakings, in addition to IL.

1.204Z2.6

IL regulations may provide that a power to give guidance or directions may not
be exercised—

1.204Z2.6.a

in relation to matters specified in the regulations,

1.204Z2.6.b

in cases or circumstances specified in the regulations,

1.204Z2.6.c

for a purpose specified in the regulations, or

1.204Z2.6.d

to an extent specified in the regulations.

##### Consequential amendments

###### Local Government Act 1972

2

In section 101 of the Local Government Act 1972 (arrangements for discharge of
functions by local authorities), after subsection (6) insert—

2.6ZA

Infrastructure Levy under Part 10A of the Planning Act 2008 is not a rate for
the purposes of subsection (6).

###### Town and Country Planning Act 1990

3

In section 70(4) of the TCPA 1990 (determination of applications: general
considerations), in paragraph (b) of the definition of “local finance
consideration”, after “payment of” insert  “Infrastructure Levy or” .

###### Deregulation and Contracting Out Act 1994

4

In section 71(3) of the Deregulation and Contracting Out Act 1994 (functions
excluded from sections 69 and 70), omit the word “and” at the end of paragraph
(h) and after that paragraph insert—

4.ha

sections 204R and 204S of the Planning Act 2008 (Infrastructure Levy:
collection and enforcement); and

.

###### Planning Act 2008

5

The Planning Act 2008 is amended as follows.

6

In the following sections, for “Part 11”, in each place it occurs, substitute
“Parts 10A and 11” —

6.a

section 32 (meaning of “ development ”);

6.b

section 155(1) (when development begins);

6.c

section 235(1) (interpretation).

7

In section 232(1)(d) (orders and regulations), after “Part” insert  “10A or” .

Regulations under Chapter 1 of Part 3 or Part 6: restrictions on devolved
authorities

Sections  90  and  158

##### No power to make provision outside devolved competence

1

1.1

No provision may be made by a devolved authority acting alone in regulations
under Chapter 1 of Part 3 or Part 6 unless the provision is within the
devolved competence of the devolved authority.

1.2

See paragraphs 5 to 7 for the meaning of “devolved competence”.

##### Requirement for consent where it would otherwise be required

2

2.1

The consent of a Minister of the Crown is required before any provision is
made by the Welsh Ministers acting alone in regulations under Chapter 1 of
Part 3 or Part 6 so far as that provision, if contained in an Act of Senedd
Cymru, would require the consent of a Minister of the Crown.

2.2

The consent of the Secretary of State is required before any provision is made
by a Northern Ireland department acting alone in regulations under Chapter 1
of Part 3 or Part 6 so far as that provision would, if contained in a Bill for
an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly, result in the Bill requiring the
consent of the Secretary of State.

2.3

Sub-paragraph (1) or (2) does not apply if—

2.3.a

the provision could be contained in subordinate legislation made otherwise
than under this Act by the Welsh Ministers acting alone or (as the case may
be) a Northern Ireland devolved authority acting alone, and

2.3.b

no such consent would be required in that case.

2.4

The consent of a Minister of the Crown is required before any provision is
made by a devolved authority acting alone in regulations under Chapter 1 of
Part 3 or Part 6 so far as that provision, if contained in—

2.4.a

subordinate legislation made otherwise than under this Act by the devolved
authority, or

2.4.b

subordinate legislation not falling within paragraph (a) and made otherwise
than under this Act by a Northern Ireland devolved authority acting alone,

would require the consent of a Minister of the Crown.

2.5

Sub-paragraph (4) does not apply if—

2.5.a

the provision could be contained in—

2.5.a.i

an Act of the Scottish Parliament, an Act of Senedd Cymru or (as the case may
be) an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly, or

2.5.a.ii

different subordinate legislation of the kind mentioned in sub-paragraph
(4)(a) or (b) and of a devolved authority acting alone or (as the case may be)
other person acting alone, and

2.5.b

no such consent would be required in that case.

##### Requirement for joint exercise where it would otherwise be required

3

3.1

No regulations may be made under Chapter 1 of Part 3 or Part 6 by the Scottish
Ministers, so far as they contain provision which relates to a matter in
respect of which a power to make subordinate legislation otherwise than under
this Act is exercisable by the Scottish Ministers acting jointly with a
Minister of the Crown, unless the regulations are, to that extent, made
jointly with the Secretary of State.

3.2

No regulations may be made under Chapter 1 of Part 3 or Part 6 by the Welsh
Ministers, so far as they contain provision which relates to a matter in
respect of which a power to make subordinate legislation otherwise than under
this Act is exercisable by the Welsh Ministers acting jointly with a Minister
of the Crown, unless the regulations are, to that extent, made jointly with
the Secretary of State.

3.3

No regulations may be made under Chapter 1 of Part 3 or Part 6 by a Northern
Ireland department, so far as they contain provision which relates to a matter
in respect of which a power to make subordinate legislation otherwise than
under this Act is exercisable by—

3.3.a

a Northern Ireland department acting jointly with a Minister of the Crown, or

3.3.b

another Northern Ireland devolved authority acting jointly with a Minister of
the Crown,

unless the regulations are, to that extent, made jointly with the Secretary of
State.

3.4

Sub-paragraph (1), (2) or (3) does not apply if the provision could be
contained in—

3.4.a

an Act of the Scottish Parliament, an Act of Senedd Cymru or (as the case may
be) an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly without the need for the consent
of a Minister of the Crown, or

3.4.b

different subordinate legislation made otherwise than under this Act by—

3.4.b.i

the Scottish Ministers acting alone,

3.4.b.ii

the Welsh Ministers acting alone, or

3.4.b.iii

(as the case may be), a Northern Ireland devolved authority acting alone.

##### Requirement for consultation where it would otherwise be required

4

4.1

No regulations may be made under Chapter 1 of Part 3 or Part 6 by the Welsh
Ministers acting alone, so far as they contain provision which, if contained
in an Act of Senedd Cymru, would require consultation with a Minister of the
Crown, unless the regulations are, to that extent, made after consulting with
the Minister of the Crown.

4.2

No regulations may be made under Chapter 1 of Part 3 or Part 6 by the Scottish
Ministers acting alone, so far as they contain provision which relates to a
matter in respect of which a power to make subordinate legislation otherwise
than under this Act is exercisable by the Scottish Ministers after consulting
with a Minister of the Crown, unless the regulations are, to that extent, made
after consulting with the Minister of the Crown.

4.3

No regulations may be made under Chapter 1 of Part 3 or Part 6 by the Welsh
Ministers acting alone, so far as they contain provision which relates to a
matter in respect of which a power to make subordinate legislation otherwise
than under this Act is exercisable by the Welsh Ministers after consulting
with a Minister of the Crown, unless the regulations are, to that extent, made
after consulting with the Minister of the Crown.

4.4

No regulations may be made under Chapter 1 of Part 3 or Part 6 by a Northern
Ireland department acting alone, so far as they contain provision which
relates to a matter in respect of which a power to make subordinate
legislation otherwise than under this Act is exercisable by a Northern Ireland
department after consulting with a Minister of the Crown, unless the
regulations are, to that extent, made after consulting with the Minister of
the Crown.

4.5

Sub-paragraph (2), (3) or (4) does not apply if—

4.5.a

the provision could be contained in an Act of the Scottish Parliament, an Act
of Senedd Cymru or (as the case may be) an Act of the Northern Ireland
Assembly, and

4.5.b

there would be no requirement for the consent of a Minister of the Crown, or
for consultation with a Minister of the Crown, in that case.

4.6

Sub-paragraph (2), (3) or (4) does not apply if—

4.6.a

the provision could be contained in different subordinate legislation made
otherwise than under this Act by—

4.6.a.i

the Scottish Ministers acting alone,

4.6.a.ii

the Welsh Ministers acting alone, or

4.6.a.iii

(as the case may be), a Northern Ireland devolved authority acting alone, and

4.6.b

there would be no requirement for the consent of a Minister of the Crown, or
for consultation with a Minister of the Crown, in that case.

##### Meaning of devolved competence

5

A provision is within the devolved competence of the Scottish Ministers if—

5.a

it would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if it
were contained in an Act of that Parliament, or

5.b

it is provision which could be made in other subordinate legislation by the
Scottish Ministers.

6

A provision is within the devolved competence of the Welsh Ministers if—

6.a

it would be within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it were
contained in an Act of the Senedd (including any provision that could be made
only with the consent of a Minister of the Crown), or

6.b

it is provision which could be made in other subordinate legislation by the
Welsh Ministers.

7

A provision is within the devolved competence of a Northern Ireland department
if—

7.a

the provision—

7.a.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly,
if contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

7.a.ii

would not, if contained in a Bill for an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State,

7.b

the provision—

7.b.i

amends or repeals Northern Ireland legislation, and

7.b.ii

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly,
if contained in an Act of that Assembly, and would, if contained in a Bill for
an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly, result in the Bill requiring the
consent of the Secretary of State, or

7.c

the provision is provision which could be made in other subordinate
legislation by any Northern Ireland devolved authority.

##### Interpretation

8

In this Schedule—

“ Minister of the Crown ” has the same meaning as in the Ministers of the
Crown Act 1975; “ Northern Ireland devolved authority ” means the First
Minister and deputy First Minister in Northern Ireland acting jointly, a
Northern Ireland Minister or a Northern Ireland department; “ subordinate
legislation ” has the meaning given in section 20(1) of the European Union
(Withdrawal) Act 2018.

Existing environmental assessment legislation

Section 167 (1)

##### United Kingdom and England and Wales

###### United Kingdom and England and Wales

Schedule 3 to the Harbours Act 1964 (procedure for making harbour revision and
empowerment orders) so far as relating to environmental impact assessments;
Part 5A of the Highways Act 1980 (environmental impact assessments); Sections
13A to 13D of the Transport and Works Act 1992 (environmental impact
assessments); The Offshore Petroleum Production and Pipe-lines (Assessment of
Environmental Effects) Regulations 1999 ( S.I. 1999/360 ); The Public Gas
Transporter Pipe-line Works (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 1999
( S.I. 1999/1672 ); The Environmental Impact Assessment (Land Drainage
Improvement Works) Regulations 1999 ( S.I. 1999/1783 ); The Environmental
Impact Assessment (Forestry) (England and Wales) Regulations 1999 ( S.I.
1999/2228 ); The Nuclear Reactors (Environmental Impact Assessment for
Decommissioning) Regulations 1999 ( S.I. 1999/2892 ); The Pipe-line Works
(Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2000 ( S.I. 2000/1928 ); The
Water Resources (Environmental Impact Assessment) (England and Wales)
Regulations 2003 ( S.I. 2003/164 ); The Environmental Assessment of Plans and
Programmes Regulations 2004 ( S.I. 2004/1633 ); The Transport and Works
(Applications and Objections Procedure)(England and Wales) Rules 2006 ( S.I.
2006/1466 ) so far as dealing with environmental matters; The Environmental
Impact Assessment (Agriculture) (England) (No. 2) Regulations 2006 ( S.I.
2006/2522 ); The Marine Works (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations
2007 ( S.I. 2007/1518 ); The Town and Country Planning (Environmental Impact
Assessment) Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/571 ); The Infrastructure Planning
(Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/572 ); The
Electricity Works (Environmental Impact Assessment) (England and Wales)
Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/580 ); The Offshore Oil and Gas Exploration,
Production, Unloading and Storage (Environmental Impact Assessment)
Regulations 2020 ( S.I. 2020/1497 ).

##### Scotland

###### Scotland

Schedule 3 to the Harbours Act 1964 so far as relating to environmental impact
assessments in Scotland; Sections 20A to 20G, 22A, 22B and 55A to 55D of the
Roads (Scotland) Act 1984 (environmental assessment of certain road
construction and improvement projects); The Environmental Assessment
(Scotland) Act 2005; The Transport and Works (Scotland) Act 2007; The
Transport and Works (Scotland) Act 2007 (Applications and Objections
Procedure) Rules 2007; The Electricity Works (Environmental Impact Assessment)
(Scotland) Regulations 2017 ( S.S.I. 2017/101 ); The Town and Country Planning
(Environmental Impact Assessment) (Scotland) Regulations 2017 ( S.S.I.
2017/102 ); The Forestry (Environmental Impact Assessment) (Scotland)
Regulations 2017 ( S.S.I. 2017/113 ); The Agriculture, Land Drainage and
Irrigation Projects (Environmental Impact Assessment) (Scotland) Regulations
2017 ( S.S.I. 2017/114 ); The Marine Works (Environmental Impact Assessment)
(Scotland) Regulations 2017 ( S.S.I. 2017/115 ).

##### Wales

###### Wales

The Environmental Assessment of Plans and Programmes (Wales) Regulations 2004
( S.I. 2004/1656 ); The Town and Country Planning (Environmental Impact
Assessment) (Undetermined Reviews of Old Mineral Permissions) (Wales)
Regulations 2009 ( S.I. 2009/3342 ); The Town and Country Planning
(Environmental Impact Assessment) (Wales) Regulations 2016 ( S.I. 2016/58 );
The Environmental Impact Assessment (Agriculture) (Wales) Regulations 2017 (
S.I. 2017/565 ); The Town and Country Planning (Environmental Impact
Assessment) (Wales) Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/567 ).

##### Northern Ireland

###### Northern Ireland

Part V of the Roads (Northern Ireland) Order 1993 ( S.I. 1993/3160 (N.I. 15))
; The Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1999 ( S.R. (N.I.) 1999/73 ); The Environmental Assessment of Plans
and Programmes Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2004 ( S.R. (N.I.) 2004/280 );
The Water Resources (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2005 ( S.R. (N.I.) 2005/32 ); The Environmental Impact Assessment
(Forestry) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006 ( S.R. (N.I.) 2006/518 ); The
Environmental Impact Assessment (Agriculture) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2007 ( S.R. (N.I.) 2007/421 ); The Planning Act (Northern Ireland)  2011 (c.
25 (N.I.)) .

  Amendments of the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017:
assumptions about nutrient pollution standards

Section  169

##### Introductory

1

Part 6 of the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 ( S.I.
2017/1012 ) (assessment of plans and projects) is amended as set out in this
Schedule.

##### Planning

2

Chapter 2 of Part 6 of those Regulations (assessment of plans and projects:
planning) is amended as follows.

3

In regulation 70 (grant of planning permission), after paragraph (4) insert—

3.5

See regulation  85A  for the assumptions about nutrient pollution standards to
be made in certain circumstances.

4

In regulation 71 (planning permission: duty to review), after paragraph (9)
insert—

4.10

See regulation  85A  for the assumptions about nutrient pollution standards to
be made in certain circumstances.

5

In regulation 77 (general development orders: approval of local planning
authority), after paragraph (7) insert—

5.8

See regulation  85B  for the assumptions about nutrient pollution standards to
be made in certain circumstances.

6

In regulation 79 (special development orders), after paragraph (5) insert—

6.6

See regulation  85A  for the assumptions about nutrient pollution standards to
be made in certain circumstances.

7

In regulation 80 (local development orders), after paragraph (5) insert—

7.6

See regulation  85A  for the assumptions about nutrient pollution standards to
be made in certain circumstances.

8

In regulation 81 (neighbourhood development orders), after paragraph (5)
insert—

8.5A

See regulation  85A  for the assumptions about nutrient pollution standards to
be made in certain circumstances.

9

In regulation 82 (simplified planning zones), after paragraph (6) insert—

9.7

See regulation  85A  for the assumptions about nutrient pollution standards to
be made in certain circumstances.

10

In regulation 83 (enterprise zones), after paragraph (6) insert—

10.7

See regulation  85A  for the assumptions about nutrient pollution standards to
be made in certain circumstances.

11

After regulation 85 insert—

######### Assumptions to be made about nutrient pollution standards: general

11.85A

11.85A.1

Paragraph  (2)  applies where—

11.85A.1.a

a competent authority makes a relevant decision,

11.85A.1.b

the potential development includes development in England,

11.85A.1.c

the competent authority is required to make a relevant assessment before the
decision is made,

11.85A.1.d

waste water from any potential development would be dealt with by a plant in
England that, at the time of the decision, is—

11.85A.1.d.i

a nitrogen significant plant, or

11.85A.1.d.ii

a phosphorus significant plant, and

11.85A.1.e

the decision is made—

11.85A.1.e.i

where the plant is a non-catchment permitting area plant, before the upgrade
date, or

11.85A.1.e.ii

where the plant is a catchment permitting area plant, before the applicable
date.

11.85A.2

In making the relevant assessment, the competent authority must assume—

11.85A.2.a

in a case within paragraph  (1) (d) (i)  and  (e) (i) , that the plant will
meet the nitrogen nutrient pollution standard on and after the upgrade date;

11.85A.2.b

in a case within paragraph  (1) (d) (ii)  and  (e) (i) , that the plant will
meet the phosphorus nutrient pollution standard on and after the upgrade date;

11.85A.2.c

in a case within paragraph  (1) (d) (i)  and  (e) (ii) , that the plant will
meet the nitrogen nutrient pollution standard on and after the applicable
date;

11.85A.2.d

in a case within paragraph  (1) (d) (ii)  and  (e) (ii) , that the plant will
meet the phosphorus nutrient pollution standard on and after the applicable
date.

11.85A.3

Paragraph  (2) —

11.85A.3.a

is subject to regulation  85C  (direction that assumptions are not to apply),
and

11.85A.3.b

does not prevent the competent authority, in making a relevant assessment,
from having regard to outperformance, or expected outperformance, by a plant
that is a non-catchment permitting area plant.

11.85A.4

In paragraph  (1)  “ relevant decision ” means—

11.85A.4.a

where any of the following provides that the assessment provisions apply in
relation to doing a thing, the decision whether or not to do it—

11.85A.4.a.i

regulation 70 (grant of planning permission),

11.85A.4.a.ii

regulation 79 (special development orders),

11.85A.4.a.iii

regulation 80 (local development orders),

11.85A.4.a.iv

regulation 81 (neighbourhood development orders),

11.85A.4.a.v

regulation 82 (simplified planning zones), or

11.85A.4.a.vi

regulation 83 (enterprise zones), or

11.85A.4.b

where any of the following provides that the review provisions apply in
relation to a matter, a decision under regulation 65(1)(b) on a review of the
matter—

11.85A.4.b.i

regulation 71 (planning permission: duty to review),

11.85A.4.b.ii

regulation 79 (special development orders),

11.85A.4.b.iii

regulation 80 (local development orders),

11.85A.4.b.iv

regulation 81 (neighbourhood development orders),

11.85A.4.b.v

regulation 82 (simplified planning zones), or

11.85A.4.b.vi

regulation 83 (enterprise zones);

but this does not apply to a matter mentioned in regulation 71(4) (any review
of which would be conducted in accordance with another Chapter).

11.85A.5

In paragraph  (1)  “ potential development ”, in relation to a relevant
decision, means development—

11.85A.5.a

that could be carried out by virtue of the planning permission, development
order or scheme to which the decision relates, or

11.85A.5.b

to which the decision otherwise relates.

11.85A.6

In this regulation “ relevant assessment ” means—

11.85A.6.a

where the assessment provisions apply and an appropriate assessment of the
implications of the plan or project for a site is required by regulation
63(1), that assessment;

11.85A.6.b

where the review provisions apply and an appropriate assessment is required by
regulation 65(2), that assessment.

######### Assumptions to be made about nutrient pollution standards: general development orders

11.85B

11.85B.1

This regulation applies where—

11.85B.1.a

a local planning authority (within the meaning given by regulation 78(1))
makes a decision on an application under regulation 77 (general development
orders: approval of local planning authority) for approval as mentioned in
regulation 75 relating to proposed development in England,

11.85B.1.b

the authority is required by regulation 77(6) to make an appropriate
assessment of the implications of the proposed development,

11.85B.1.c

any waste water from the proposed development would be dealt with by a plant
in England that, at the time of the decision, is—

11.85B.1.c.i

a nitrogen significant plant, or

11.85B.1.c.ii

a phosphorus significant plant, and

11.85B.1.d

the decision is made—

11.85B.1.d.i

where the plant is a non-catchment permitting area plant, before the upgrade
date, or

11.85B.1.d.ii

where the plant is a catchment permitting area plant, before the applicable
date.

11.85B.2

In making the relevant assessment the local planning authority must assume—

11.85B.2.a

in a case within paragraph  (1) (c) (i)  and  (d) (i) , that the plant will
meet the nitrogen nutrient pollution standard on and after the upgrade date;

11.85B.2.b

in a case within paragraph  (1) (c) (ii)  and  (d) (i) , that the plant will
meet the phosphorus nutrient pollution standard on and after the upgrade date;

11.85B.2.c

in a case within paragraph  (1) (c) (i)  and  (d) (ii) , that the plant will
meet the nitrogen nutrient pollution standard on and after the applicable
date;

11.85B.2.d

in a case within paragraph  (1) (c) (ii)  and  (d) (ii) , that the plant will
meet the phosphorus nutrient pollution standard on and after the applicable
date.

11.85B.3

Paragraph  (2) —

11.85B.3.a

is subject to regulation  85C  (direction that assumptions are not to apply),
and

11.85B.3.b

does not prevent the local planning authority, in making a relevant
assessment, from having regard to any outperformance, or expected
outperformance, by a plant that is a non-catchment permitting area plant.

######### Direction that assumptions are not to apply

11.85C

11.85C.1

The assumptions in regulations  85A (2)  and  85B (2)  do not apply in
relation to a particular plant and a particular nutrient pollution standard if
the Secretary of State so directs.

11.85C.2

A direction under this regulation may be made in relation to a plant and a
standard only if the Secretary of State is satisfied—

11.85C.2.a

where the plant is a non-catchment permitting area plant, that the plant will
not be able to meet the standard by the upgrade date;

11.85C.2.b

where the plant is a catchment permitting area plant—

11.85C.2.b.i

that the plant will not be able to meet the standard by the applicable date,
or

11.85C.2.b.ii

that the first effect described in paragraph  (4)  will, on the applicable
date, be more significant than the second effect described in that paragraph.

11.85C.3

The Secretary of State may revoke a direction under this regulation if
satisfied—

11.85C.3.a

where the plant is a non-catchment permitting area plant, that the plant will
meet the standard by the upgrade date;

11.85C.3.b

where the plant is a catchment permitting area plant—

11.85C.3.b.i

that the plant will meet the standard by the applicable date, or

11.85C.3.b.ii

that the first effect described in paragraph  (4)  will, on the applicable
date, be the same or less significant than the second effect described in that
paragraph.

11.85C.4

For the purposes of paragraphs  (2) (b)  and  (3) (b) —

11.85C.4.a

the “first effect” is the overall effect on the habitats site associated with
the catchment permitting area of nutrients in treated effluent discharged by
all plants that discharge into the area;

11.85C.4.b

the “second effect” is the overall effect on the site of nutrients in treated
effluent that would be discharged by all plants that discharge into the area
if—

11.85C.4.b.i

the upgrade date that applied to nutrient significant plants that discharge
into the area was the same as the applicable date,

11.85C.4.b.ii

the standard concentration (of nutrients) applied to those nutrient
significant plants, and

11.85C.4.b.iii

those nutrient significant plants were (on that basis) meeting the nutrient
pollution standard on the applicable date.

11.85C.5

In deciding whether to make a direction under this regulation in relation to a
plant and a standard, the Secretary of State may, in particular, have regard—

11.85C.5.a

where the plant is a non-catchment permitting area plant, to when the plant
can be expected to meet the standard;

11.85C.5.b

where the plant is a catchment permitting area plant, to when—

11.85C.5.b.i

the plant can be expected to meet the standard, and

11.85C.5.b.ii

the sewerage undertaker for the plant can be expected to be in compliance with
conditions in the environmental permit for the plant imposed in pursuance of
section  96G (3) (b)  of the Water Industry Act 1991.

11.85C.6

Before making or revoking a direction under this regulation, the Secretary of
State must consult—

11.85C.6.a

the Environment Agency,

11.85C.6.b

Natural England,

11.85C.6.c

the Water Services Regulation Authority,

11.85C.6.d

any local planning authority who it appears to the Secretary of State would be
affected by the direction or revocation,

11.85C.6.e

the sewerage undertaker whose sewerage system includes the plant, and

11.85C.6.f

any other persons that the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

11.85C.7

A direction or revocation under this regulation—

11.85C.7.a

is to be made in writing, and

11.85C.7.b

takes effect—

11.85C.7.b.i

on the day specified in the direction or revocation, or

11.85C.7.b.ii

if none is specified, on the day on which it is made.

11.85C.8

As soon as practicable after making or revoking a direction under this
regulation, the Secretary of State must—

11.85C.8.a

notify—

11.85C.8.a.i

the Environment Agency,

11.85C.8.a.ii

Natural England,

11.85C.8.a.iii

every local planning authority who appears to the Secretary of State to be
affected by the direction or revocation, and

11.85C.8.a.iv

any other persons that the Secretary of State considers appropriate, and

11.85C.8.b

publish the direction or revocation.

######### Regulations 

11.85D

11.85D.1

In regulations  85A  to  85C  and this regulation, the following terms have
the meanings given by section  96L  of the Water Industry Act 1991—

      “catchment permitting area”;           “environmental permit”;
“habitats site”;           “nitrogen significant plant”;           “nitrogen
nutrient pollution standard”;           “nutrient pollution standard”;
“nutrient significant plant”;           “phosphorus significant plant”;
“phosphorus nutrient pollution standard”;           “plant”;
“sensitive catchment area”;           “ sewerage system ”, in relation to a
sewerage undertaker;           “standard concentration”;           “treated
effluent”;           “upgrade date”.

11.85D.2

In regulations  85A  to  85C  and this regulation—

      “ catchment permitting area plant ” means a nutrient significant plant
that discharges (or will discharge) treated effluent into a catchment
permitting area;           “ non-catchment permitting area plant ” means a
nutrient significant plant that discharges (or will discharge) treated
effluent into a sensitive catchment area other than a catchment permitting
area.

11.85D.3

For the purposes of regulations  85A  and  85B , “outperformance” by a plant,
which is a non-catchment permitting area plant and in relation to a nutrient
pollution standard, occurs where—

11.85D.3.a

the plant meets the standard before the upgrade date, or

11.85D.3.b

the total nitrogen concentration (in the case of a nitrogen significant
plant), or total phosphorus concentration (in the case of a phosphorus
significant plant), in treated effluent that it discharges is less than the
concentration specified in  section 96F (1) (a) (i)  or  (2) (a) (i) , under
section 96C (4) (e)  or  96D (5)  or by virtue of regulations made under
section 96D (11)  (as the case may be) of the Water Industry Act 1991 that
applies to the plant.

11.85D.4

For the purposes of regulations  85A  and  85B , the “ applicable date ”, in
relation to a catchment permitting area, is to be determined in accordance
with  section 96G (6) (a)  of the Water Industry Act 1991.

11.85D.5

For the purposes of regulation  85C (4) —

11.85D.5.a

a habitats site is “associated” with a catchment permitting area if water
released into the area would drain into the site;

11.85D.5.b

“nutrients”—

11.85D.5.b.i

in relation to an area designated under  section 96C (1)  of the Water
Industry Act 1991, means nutrients comprising nitrogen or compounds of
nitrogen;

11.85D.5.b.ii

in relation to an area designated under  section 96C (2)  of that Act, means
nutrients comprising phosphorus or compounds of phosphorus.

##### Land use plans

12

Chapter 8 of Part 6 (assessment of plans and projects: land use plans) is
amended as follows.

13

In regulation 105 (assessment of implications for European sites and European
offshore marine sites), after paragraph (6) insert—

13.7

See regulation  110A  for the assumptions about nutrient pollution standards
to be made in certain circumstances.

14

In regulation 106 (assessment of implications for European site: neighbourhood
development plans), after paragraph (3) insert—

14.3A

See regulation  110A  for the assumptions about nutrient pollution standards
to be made in certain circumstances.

15

In regulation 110 (national policy statements), in paragraph (3)(a), for “and
108” substitute  “, 108 and  110A ” .

16

After regulation 110 insert—

######### Assessments under this Chapter: required assumptions

16.110A

16.110A.1

This regulation applies where—

16.110A.1.a

a plan-making authority makes a relevant decision in relation to a land use
plan relating to an area in England,

16.110A.1.b

the authority is required to make a relevant assessment before the decision is
made,

16.110A.1.c

waste water from the area to which the plan relates could be dealt with by a
plant in England that, at the time of the decision, is—

16.110A.1.c.i

a nitrogen significant plant, or

16.110A.1.c.ii

a phosphorus significant plant, and

16.110A.1.d

the decision is made—

16.110A.1.d.i

where the plant is a non-catchment permitting area plant, before the upgrade
date, or

16.110A.1.d.ii

where the plant is a catchment permitting area plant, before the applicable
date.

16.110A.2

In making the relevant assessment, the authority must assume—

16.110A.2.a

in a case within paragraph  (1) (c) (i)  and  (d) (i) , that the plant will
meet the nitrogen nutrient pollution standard on and after the upgrade date;

16.110A.2.b

in a case within paragraph  (1) (c) (ii)  and  (d) (i) , that the plant will
meet the phosphorus nutrient pollution standard on and after the upgrade date;

16.110A.2.c

in a case within paragraph (1)(c)(i) and (d)(ii), that the plant will meet the
nitrogen nutrient pollution standard on and after the applicable date;

16.110A.2.d

in a case within paragraph (1)(c)(ii) and (d)(ii), that the plant will meet
the phosphorus nutrient pollution standard on and after the applicable date.

16.110A.3

Paragraph  (2) —

16.110A.3.a

is subject to regulation  110B  (direction that assumptions are not to apply),
and

16.110A.3.b

does not prevent the authority, in making a relevant assessment, from having
regard to any outperformance, or expected outperformance, by a plant that is a
non-catchment permitting area plant.

16.110A.4

In paragraph  (1)  “ relevant decision ” means—

16.110A.4.a

a decision whether to give effect to a land use plan, or

16.110A.4.b

a decision whether to modify or revoke a neighbourhood development plan.

16.110A.5

In this regulation “ relevant assessment ”, in relation to a land use plan,
means—

16.110A.5.a

in relation to a decision within paragraph  (4) (a) , where an appropriate
assessment of the implications for a site of the land use plan is required by
regulation 105(1), that assessment;

16.110A.5.b

in relation to a decision within paragraph  (4) (b) , where such an assessment
is required by regulation 105(1) as applied by regulation 106(3), that
assessment.

######### Direction that assumptions are not to apply

16.110B

16.110B.1

The assumptions in regulation  110A (2)  do not apply in relation to a
particular plant and a particular nutrient pollution standard if the Secretary
of State so directs.

16.110B.2

A direction under this regulation may be made in relation to a plant and a
standard only if the Secretary of State is satisfied—

16.110B.2.a

where the plant is a non-catchment permitting area plant, that the plant will
not be able to meet the standard by the upgrade date;

16.110B.2.b

where the plant is a catchment permitting area plant—

16.110B.2.b.i

that the plant will not be able to meet the standard by the applicable date,
or

16.110B.2.b.ii

that the first effect described in paragraph  (4)  will, on the applicable
date, be more significant than the second effect described in that paragraph.

16.110B.3

The Secretary of State may revoke a direction under this regulation if
satisfied—

16.110B.3.a

where the plant is a non-catchment permitting area plant, that the plant will
meet the standard by the upgrade date;

16.110B.3.b

where the plant is a catchment permitting area plant—

16.110B.3.b.i

that the plant will meet the standard by the applicable date, or

16.110B.3.b.ii

that the first effect described in paragraph  (4)  will, on the applicable
date, be the same or less significant than the second effect described in that
paragraph.

16.110B.4

For the purposes of paragraphs  (2) (b)  and  (3) (b) —

16.110B.4.a

the “first effect” is the overall effect on the habitats site associated with
the catchment permitting area of nutrients in treated effluent discharged by
all plants that discharge into the area;

16.110B.4.b

the “second effect” is the overall effect on the site of nutrients in treated
effluent that would be discharged by all plants that discharge into the area
if—

16.110B.4.b.i

the upgrade date that applied to nutrient significant plants that discharge
into the area was the same as the applicable date,

16.110B.4.b.ii

the standard concentration (of nutrients) applied to those nutrient
significant plants, and

16.110B.4.b.iii

those nutrient significant plants were (on that basis) meeting the nutrient
pollution standard on the applicable date.

16.110B.5

In deciding whether to make a direction under this regulation in relation to a
plant and a standard, the Secretary of State may, in particular, have regard—

16.110B.5.a

where the plant is a non-catchment permitting area plant, to when the plant
can be expected to meet the standard;

16.110B.5.b

where the plant is a catchment permitting area plant, to when—

16.110B.5.b.i

the plant can be expected to meet the standard, and

16.110B.5.b.ii

the sewerage undertaker for the plant can be expected to be in compliance with
conditions in the environmental permit for the plant imposed in pursuance of
section  96G (3) (b)  of the Water Industry Act 1991.

16.110B.6

Before making or revoking a direction under this regulation, the Secretary of
State must consult—

16.110B.6.a

the Environment Agency,

16.110B.6.b

Natural England,

16.110B.6.c

the Water Services Regulation Authority,

16.110B.6.d

any plan-making authority who it appears to the Secretary of State would be
affected by the direction or revocation,

16.110B.6.e

the sewerage undertaker whose sewerage system includes the plant, and

16.110B.6.f

any other persons that the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

16.110B.7

A direction or revocation under this regulation—

16.110B.7.a

is to be made in writing, and

16.110B.7.b

takes effect—

16.110B.7.b.i

on the day specified in the direction or revocation, or

16.110B.7.b.ii

if none is specified, on the day on which it is made.

16.110B.8

As soon as practicable after making or revoking a direction under this
regulation, the Secretary of State must—

16.110B.8.a

notify—

16.110B.8.a.i

the Environment Agency,

16.110B.8.a.ii

Natural England,

16.110B.8.a.iii

every plan-making authority who appears to the Secretary of State to be
affected by the direction or revocation, and

16.110B.8.a.iv

any other persons that the Secretary of State considers appropriate, and

16.110B.8.b

publish the direction or revocation.

######### Regulations 

16.110C

16.110C.1

In regulations  110A  and  110B  and this regulation, the following terms have
the meanings given by section  96L  of the Water Industry Act 1991—

      “catchment permitting area”;           “environmental permit”;
“habitats site”;           “nitrogen significant plant”;           “nitrogen
nutrient pollution standard”;           “nutrient pollution standard”;
“nutrient significant plant”;           “phosphorus significant plant”;
“phosphorus nutrient pollution standard”;           “plant”;
“sensitive catchment area”;           “ sewerage system ”, in relation to a
sewerage undertaker;           “standard concentration”;           “treated
effluent”;           “upgrade date”.

16.110C.2

In regulations  110A  and  110B  and this regulation—

      “ catchment permitting area plant ” means a nutrient significant plant
that discharges (or will discharge) treated effluent into a catchment
permitting area;           “ non-catchment permitting area plant ” means a
nutrient significant plant that discharges (or will discharge) treated
effluent into a sensitive catchment area other than a catchment permitting
area.

16.110C.3

For the purposes of regulation  110A , “outperformance” by a plant, which is a
non-catchment permitting area plant and in relation to a nutrient pollution
standard, occurs where—

16.110C.3.a

the plant meets the standard before the upgrade date, or

16.110C.3.b

the total nitrogen concentration (in the case of a nitrogen significant
plant), or total phosphorus concentration (in the case of a phosphorus
significant plant), in treated effluent that it discharges is less than the
concentration specified in section 96F(1)(a)(i) or (2)(a)(i), under section
96C(6)(e) or 96D(5) or by virtue of regulations made under section 96D(11) (as
the case may be) of the Water Industry Act 1991 that applies to the plant.

16.110C.4

For the purposes of regulations  110A  and  110B , the “ applicable date ”, in
relation to a catchment permitting area, is to be determined in accordance
with section 96G(6)(a) of the Water Industry Act 1991.

16.110C.5

For the purposes of regulation  110B (4) —

16.110C.5.a

a habitats site is “associated” with a catchment permitting area if water
released into the area would drain into the site;

16.110C.5.b

“nutrients”—

16.110C.5.b.i

in relation to an area designated under section 96C(2) of the Water Industry
Act 1991, means nutrients comprising nitrogen or compounds of nitrogen;

16.110C.5.b.ii

in relation to an area designated under section 96C(3) of that Act, means
nutrients comprising phosphorus or compounds of phosphorus.

  Locally-led development corporations: minor and consequential amendments

Section  173

##### Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980 (c. 65)

1

The Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980 is amended as follows.

2

2.1

Section 134 (urban development areas) is amended as follows.

2.2

In subsection (1)—

2.2.a

for “the Secretary of State” substitute  “the appropriate national authority”
;

2.2.b

for “he” substitute  “the authority” .

2.3

In subsection (3A), for “The Secretary of State” substitute  “The appropriate
national authority” .

2.4

In subsection (3B), for “the Secretary of State” substitute  “the appropriate
national authority” .

2.5

After subsection (3B) insert—

2.5.3C

The Secretary of State may not make an order under subsection (3A) in relation
to an urban development area designated under subsection  (1B)  except with
the consent of the oversight authority.

2.6

In subsection (4), after “(1)” insert  “or (1B)” .

2.7

In subsection (4A), after “(1)” insert  “or (1B)” .

2.8

In subsection (4B), omit “(by virtue of paragraph 30 of Schedule 11 to the
Government of Wales Act 2006)”.

2.9

In subsection (4C), omit “(by virtue of section 53 of the Scotland Act 1998)”.

2.10

In subsection (5)—

2.10.a

omit paragraph (a);

2.10.b

in paragraph (b), for “the Secretary of State” substitute  “the appropriate
national authority” .

2.11

After subsection (5) insert—

2.11.6

An order under subsection (3A)—

2.11.6.a

in the case of an order made by the Secretary of State, is to be made by
statutory instrument subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of
either House of Parliament;

2.11.6.b

in the case of an order made by the Welsh Ministers, is to be made by
statutory instrument subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of
Senedd Cymru;

2.11.6.c

in the case of an order made by the Scottish Ministers, is subject to the
negative procedure (see Part 2 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform
(Scotland) Act  2010 (asp 10) ).

2.11.7

In this section, “ the appropriate national authority ” means—

2.11.7.a

the Secretary of State in relation to England;

2.11.7.b

the Welsh Ministers in relation to Wales;

2.11.7.c

the Scottish Ministers in relation to Scotland.

3

3.1

Section 135 (urban development corporations) is amended as follows.

3.2

In subsection (2), after “134(1)” insert  “or (1B)” .

3.3

At the end insert—

3.3.7

In this section “ local authority ” has the same meaning as in section  134A
(see subsection  (10)  of that section).

4

In section 140 (consultation with local authorities), in subsection (1), after
“corporation” insert  “, other than a locally-led urban development
corporation,” .

5

5.1

Section 171 (interpretation: general) is amended as follows.

5.2

After the definition of “the 1997 Act” insert—

      “ locally-led urban development area ” means an urban development area
that was designated by order under section 134 (1B) ;           “ locally-led
urban development corporation ” means the urban development corporation for a
locally-led urban development area;           “ oversight authority ”, in
relation to a locally-led urban development corporation or locally-led urban
development area, means the local authority or local authorities designated in
relation to that corporation, or the corporation for that area, under section
135 (4B) (c)  (but, in relation to a particular function, means only the local
authority or local authorities by whom the function is exercisable);

.

5.3

In the definition of “urban development area”, after “(1)” insert  “or (1B)” .

##### New Towns Act 1981 (c. 64)

6

The New Towns Act 1981 is amended as follows.

7

7.1

Section 1A (local authority to oversee development of new town) is amended as
follows.

7.2

For the heading substitute  “Oversight of locally-led new town” .

7.3

Omit subsections (1), (2) and (3).

7.4

In subsection (4)—

7.4.a

for “a local authority” substitute  “an oversight authority” ;

7.4.b

after “as a” insert  “locally-led” .

7.5

In subsection (5)—

7.5.a

in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c), for “a local authority” substitute  “an
oversight authority” ;

7.5.b

in paragraph (d), for the words from “corporation”, in the first place it
occurs, to the end substitute  “locally-led development corporation” .

7.6

Omit—

7.6.a

subsection (7);

7.6.b

in subsection (8)—

7.6.b.i

the definition of “local authority”;

7.6.b.ii

paragraph (a) of the definition of “specified”.

8

In section 2 (reduction of designated areas), after subsection (1) insert—

8.1A

The Secretary of State may not make an order under subsection (1) in relation
to the area of a new town designated under section  1ZB  except with the
consent of the oversight authority.

9

9.1

Section 80 (general interpretation provisions) is amended as follows.

9.2

In subsection (1)—

9.2.a

after the definition of “local highway authority” insert—

      “ locally-led development corporation ” means a development corporation
established for the purposes of a locally-led new town;           “ locally-
led new town ” means a new town the site of which was designated under section
1ZB ;

;

9.2.b

after the definition of “open space” insert—

      “ oversight authority ”, in relation to a locally-led development
corporation or locally-led new town, means the local authority or local
authorities designated in relation to that corporation, or the corporation for
that new town, under section 3 (2C) (c)  (but, in relation to a particular
function, means only the local authority or local authorities by whom the
function is exercisable);

.

9.3

In subsection (2), after “section 1” insert  “or  1ZB ” .

  Planning functions of development corporations: minor and consequential
amendments

Section  177

##### New Towns Act 1981 (c. 64)

1

1.1

The New Towns Act 1981 is amended as follows.

1.2

In the heading of section 7 (planning control), after “control” insert  “:
proposals given effect by development order” .

1.3

In section 77 (regulations and orders), after subsection (3D) (inserted by
section  172 ) insert—

1.3.3E

A statutory instrument, other than one to which subsection (3B) applies,
containing an order under section  7A  is subject to annulment in pursuance of
a resolution of either House of Parliament.

##### Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (c. 8)

2

2.1

TCPA 1990 is amended as follows.

2.2

In section 7 (urban development corporation as local planning authority),
after subsection (2) insert—

2.2.3

This section is subject to section 8A.

2.3

After section 7 insert—

########### New towns

2.3.7ZA

2.3.7ZA.1

This section applies where an order is made under section  7A (2) (a)  or  (4)
(a)  of the New Towns Act 1981 (powers to confer functions under the planning
Acts) in respect of a development corporation established under section 3 of
that Act.

2.3.7ZA.2

If the order is made under section  7A (2) (a) , the corporation is the local
planning authority for the specified area, for the specified purposes and in
relation to the specified kinds of development, in place of the authority
which would otherwise be the local planning authority for that area.

2.3.7ZA.3

If the order is made under section  7A (4) (a) , the corporation has the
functions under the specified enactments in the specified area, in place of
any authority (except the Secretary of State) which would otherwise have them
in that area.

2.3.7ZA.4

In this section “ specified ” means specified in the order.

2.3.7ZA.5

This section is subject to section 8A.

2.4

In section 7A (Mayoral development corporation as local planning authority),
after subsection (5) insert—

2.4.6

This section is subject to section 8A.

2.5

In section 62B(5) (planning authorities that cannot be designated for the
purposes of allowing direct planning applications to the Secretary of State),
after paragraph (c) insert—

2.5.ca

a development corporation established under section 3 of the New Towns Act
1981;

.

2.6

In section 70(4) (definitions relating to local finance considerations to be
taken into account in planning decisions), in the definition of “relevant
authority”, after paragraph (e) insert—

2.6.ea

a development corporation established under section 3 of the New Towns Act
1981;

.

2.7

In paragraph 5 of Schedule 1 (local highway authority restrictions on grant of
planning permission)—

2.7.a

in sub-paragraph (2), for the words from “is to be”, where they first occur,
to “2011,” substitute  “does not include a development corporation planning
authority;” ;

2.7.b

in sub-paragraph (3), for the words from “an” to “local planning authority”,
in the second place it occurs, substitute  “a development corporation planning
authority” ;

2.7.c

after sub-paragraph (3) insert—

2.7.c.4

In this paragraph, “ development corporation planning authority ” means—

2.7.c.4.a

an urban development corporation which is the local planning authority by
virtue of an order under section 149 of the Local Government, Planning and
Land Act 1980,

2.7.c.4.b

a development corporation established under section 3 of the New Towns Act
1981 which is the local planning authority by virtue of an order under section
7A  of that Act, or

2.7.c.4.c

a Mayoral development corporation which is the local planning authority by
virtue of an order under section 198(2) of the Localism Act 2011.

##### Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990 (c. 9)

3

In Schedule 4 to the Listed Buildings Act (authorities exercising functions
under the Act)—

3.a

in paragraph 2—

3.a.i

after “7”, where it first occurs, insert  “,  7ZA , 7A,” ;

3.a.ii

after “urban development areas,” insert  “new towns,” ;

3.b

in paragraph 4(1), after “7” insert  “,  7ZA , 7A,” .

##### Planning (Hazardous Substances) Act 1990 (c. 10)

4

In section 3 of the Hazardous Substances Act (hazardous substances authorities
in certain special cases)—

4.a

in subsection (4)—

4.a.i

for “an urban development corporation or a Mayoral development corporation”
substitute  “a development corporation” ;

4.a.ii

after “planning authority” insert  “for all purposes of Part 3 of the
principal Act” ;

4.b

after subsection (4) insert—

4.b.4A

In subsection (4), “ development corporation ” means an urban development
corporation, a development corporation established under section 3 of the New
Towns Act 1981 or a Mayoral development corporation.

##### Localism Act 2011 (c. 20)

5

In section 202(5) of the Localism Act 2011 (power to apply certain
modifications of planning enactments in relation to Mayoral development
corporations), at the end insert  “, with the further modification that any
reference in that Part of that Schedule to an urban development corporation is
to be read as a reference to an MDC” .

  Conditional confirmation and making of compulsory purchase orders:
consequential amendments

Section  183 (4)

##### Land Compensation Act 1973 (c. 26)

1

In section 33D of the Land Compensation Act 1973 (exclusions from entitlement
to loss payments), for subsection (6) substitute—

1.6

The relevant time is the time at which any of the following occurs in respect
of the compulsory purchase order relating to the person’s interest in the
land—

1.6.a

the order is confirmed, other than conditionally, under section 13 or 13A of
the Acquisition of Land Act 1981;

1.6.b

the order is made, other than conditionally, under paragraph 4 or 4A of
Schedule 1 to that Act;

1.6.c

a decision is made under section  13BA (2) (a)  of the Acquisition of Land Act
1981 (decision that conditions subject to which order was confirmed have been
met);

1.6.d

a decision is made under paragraph  4AA (2) (a)  of Schedule 1 to that Act
(decision that conditions subject to which order was made have been met).

##### Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 (c. 66)

2

In section 5(2) of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981
(vesting declaration not to be executed before purchase order operative), for
“26(1)” substitute  “26” .

##### Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (c. 67)

3

3.1

The Acquisition of Land Act 1981 is amended as follows.

3.2

In section 7—

3.2.a

in subsection (3) (regulations subject to negative procedure)—

3.2.a.i

after “13A” insert  “or  13BA ” ;

3.2.a.ii

after “paragraph 4A” insert  “or  4AA ” ;

3.2.b

after subsection (3) insert—

3.2.b.4

So far as anything is required or authorised to be prescribed as mentioned in
subsection (2) in relation to orders that fall to be made or confirmed by the
Welsh Ministers—

3.2.b.4.a

the reference in that subsection to the Secretary of State is to be read as a
reference to the Welsh Ministers, and

3.2.b.4.b

the reference in subsection (3) to either House of Parliament is to be read as
a reference to Senedd Cymru.

3.3

In section 26 (date of operation of orders and certificates), for subsections
(1) and (2) substitute—

3.3.1A

A compulsory purchase order confirmed under Part 2 becomes operative—

3.3.1A.a

if it is confirmed unconditionally, on the date on which a confirmation notice
in respect of the order is first published as required by section 15(3)(a);

3.3.1A.b

if it is confirmed conditionally, on the date on which a fulfilment notice in
respect of the order is first published as required by section 15 (4C) (b) (i)
.

3.3.1B

A compulsory purchase order made under Schedule 1 becomes operative—

3.3.1B.a

if it is made unconditionally, on the date on which a making notice in respect
of the order is first published as required by paragraph 6(3)(a) of that
Schedule;

3.3.1B.b

if it is made conditionally, on the date on which a fulfilment notice in
respect of the order is first published as required by paragraph 6 (4C) (b)
(i)  of that Schedule.

3.3.1C

Subsections  (1A)  and  (1B)  do not apply to an order to which the Statutory
Orders (Special Procedure) Act 1945 applies.

3.3.2A

A certificate given under Part 3 becomes operative on the date on which it is
first published as required by section 22(a).

3.3.2B

A certificate given under Schedule 3 becomes operative on the date on which it
is first published as required by paragraph 9(a) of that Schedule.

3.3.3

This section is subject to section 24.

##### Housing Act 1985 (c. 68)

4

4.1

The Housing Act 1985 is amended as follows.

4.2

In section 582 (suspension of recovery of possession of certain premises when
compulsory purchase order made)—

4.2.a

in subsection (2), for paragraph (b) substitute—

4.2.a.b

any earlier date on which—

4.2.a.b.i

the Secretary of State notifies the authority that the Secretary of State
declines to confirm the order,

4.2.a.b.ii

the order (having been confirmed conditionally) expires by virtue of section
13BA (2) (b)  of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981, or

4.2.a.b.iii

the order is quashed by a court.

;

4.2.b

in subsection (6), for paragraph (a) substitute—

4.2.b.aa

the Secretary of State notifies the authority that the Secretary of State
declines to confirm the compulsory purchase order,

4.2.b.ab

the order (having been confirmed conditionally) expires by virtue of section
13BA (2) (b)  of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981,

4.2.b.ac

the order is quashed by a court, or

.

4.3

In paragraph 3 of Schedule 5A (termination of initial demolition notices)—

4.3.a

in sub-paragraph (2), after “(3)(a)” insert  “or (aa)” ;

4.3.b

in sub-paragraph (3)—

4.3.b.i

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (a);

4.3.b.ii

after paragraph (a) insert—

4.3.b.ii.aa

a decision under section  13BA (2) (b) (ii)  of that Act that conditions
subject to which the order was confirmed have not been met, or

;

4.3.c

in sub-paragraph (4), after “(3)(a)” insert  “or (aa)” ;

4.3.d

after sub-paragraph (6) insert—

4.3.d.6A

If—

4.3.d.6A.a

a compulsory purchase order has been made as described in sub-paragraph (2),

4.3.d.6A.b

the order expires by virtue of section  13BA (2) (b) (i)  of the Acquisition
of Land Act 1981, and

4.3.d.6A.c

the effect of the expiry is that the landlord will not be able, by virtue of
that order, to carry out the demolition of the dwelling-house,

the notice ceases to be in force as from the date when the order expires.

;

4.3.e

in sub-paragraph (7), after “(2)” insert  “or (6A)” .

##### Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (c. 8)

5

5.1

TCPA 1990 is amended as follows.

5.2

In section 137(7)(b) (discontinuance of compulsory purchase for purpose of
blight notice exception)—

5.2.a

in sub-paragraph (i), after “order” insert  “or the order (having been made
conditionally) expires by virtue of paragraph  4AA (2)  of Schedule 1 to the
Acquisition of Land Act 1981” ;

5.2.b

in sub-paragraph (ii), at the end insert  “or (having been confirmed
conditionally) it expires by virtue of section  13BA (2) (b)  of the
Acquisition of Land Act 1981” .

5.3

In Note (2) in paragraph 22 of Schedule 13 (land ceasing to be blighted by
proposed compulsory purchase order)—

5.3.a

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (a);

5.3.b

at the end of paragraph (b) insert

; or

5.3.b.c

the order (having been confirmed or made conditionally) expires by virtue of
section  13BA (2) (b)  of, or paragraph  4AA (2)  of Schedule 1 to, the
Acquisition of Land Act 1981.

##### Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990 (c. 9)

6

In section 48(6)(b) of the Listed Buildings Act (discontinuance of compulsory
purchase for purpose of listed building purchase notice exception)—

6.a

in sub-paragraph (i), at the end insert  “or the order (having been made
conditionally) expires by virtue of paragraph  4AA (2)  of Schedule 1 to the
Acquisition of Land Act 1981” ;

6.b

in sub-paragraph (ii), at the end insert  “or (having been confirmed
conditionally) it expires by virtue of section  13BA (2) (b)  of the
Acquisition of Land Act 1981” .

##### Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023

7

In section 111(8)(b) of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023
(discontinuance of compulsory purchase for purpose of listed building purchase
notice exception)—

7.a

in the English language text—

7.a.i

in sub-paragraph (i), at the end insert  “or (having been confirmed
conditionally) it expires by virtue of section  13BA (2) (b)  of the
Acquisition of Land Act 1981” ;

7.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (ii), at the end insert  “or the order (having been made
conditionally) expires by virtue of paragraph  4AA (2)  of Schedule 1 to that
Act” ;

7.b

in the Welsh language text—

7.b.i

in sub-paragraph (i), at the end insert  “neu pan fydd (ar ôl cael ei
gadarnhau’n amodol) yn dod i ben yn rhinwedd adran  13BA (2) (b)  o Ddeddf
Caffael Tir 1981” ;

7.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (ii), at the end insert  “neu pan fydd y gorchymyn (ar ôl
cael ei wneud yn amodol) yn dod i ben yn rhinwedd paragraff  4AA (2)  o
Atodlen 1 i’r Ddeddf honno” .

  Compulsory purchase: corresponding provision for purchases by Ministers

Section  184

##### Online publicity

1

1.1

Schedule 1 to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (compulsory purchase by
Minister) is amended as follows.

1.2

For the italic heading before paragraph 2 substitute  “ Public notices ” .

1.3

In paragraph 2 (requirement to publish notice of order in newspaper)—

1.3.a

in sub-paragraph (1)—

1.3.a.i

the words from “in two” to “situated” become paragraph (a);

1.3.a.ii

at the end of that paragraph insert

, and

1.3.a.ii.b

for a period of at least 21 days ending with the day specified under sub-
paragraph (2)(d), publish a notice in the prescribed form on an appropriate
website.

;

1.3.b

in sub-paragraph (2)—

1.3.b.i

in the words before paragraph (a), for “notice” substitute  “notices” ;

1.3.b.ii

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (c);

1.3.b.iii

after paragraph (c) insert—

1.3.b.iii.ca

specify a website on which those copies may be viewed, and

;

1.3.b.iv

for paragraph (d) substitute—

1.3.b.iv.d

specify the final day for making objections to the draft order, and the manner
in which objections can be made.

;

1.3.c

after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

1.3.c.2A

If the appropriate authority (see paragraph 4(8)) is satisfied that, because
of special circumstances, it is impracticable for the Minister to make the
copies referred to in sub-paragraph (2)(c) available for inspection at an
appropriate place, the appropriate authority may direct that the requirement
in sub-paragraph (2)(c) (together with that in paragraph 3(1) (ba) ) is not to
apply.

;

1.3.d

in sub-paragraph (4)(b), omit the words from “(but” to “affixed)”.

1.4

In paragraph 3(1) (requirement to serve notice on certain affected persons)—

1.4.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (b);

1.4.b

after paragraph (b) insert—

1.4.b.ba

(subject to paragraph 2 (2A) ) naming a place within the locality where a copy
of the draft order and of the map referred to in it may be inspected,

1.4.b.bb

specifying a website on which those copies may be viewed, and

;

1.4.c

for paragraph (c) substitute—

1.4.c.c

specifying the final day for making objections to the draft order, and the
manner in which objections can be made.

1.5

After paragraph 3 insert—

########### Final day for making objections

1.5.3A

1.5.3A.1

For the purposes of paragraphs 2 and 3, the day specified as the final day for
making objections must be the last day, or a day after the last day, of the
period of 21 days beginning with the first day at the beginning of which the
Minister expects that all of the following conditions will be satisfied.

1.5.3A.2

The conditions are that—

1.5.3A.2.a

a notice has been published for the first time as required by paragraph
2(1)(a),

1.5.3A.2.b

publication as required by paragraph 2(1)(b) has begun,

1.5.3A.2.c

a notice has been affixed as required by paragraph 2(3), and

1.5.3A.2.d

a notice has been served on every qualifying person as required by paragraph
3(1).

1.6

In paragraph 6 (notices after making of order)—

1.6.a

in sub-paragraph (3)—

1.6.a.i

the words from “in one” to “situated” become paragraph (a);

1.6.a.ii

at the end of that paragraph insert

, and

1.6.a.ii.b

on an appropriate website, until the end of the period of 6 weeks beginning
with the day on which the Minister takes the final step needed to comply with
sub-paragraph (1)(a).

;

1.6.b

in sub-paragraph (4), after paragraph (c) insert—

1.6.b.ca

specifying a website on which those copies may be viewed;

;

1.6.c

after sub-paragraph (4) insert—

1.6.c.4A

If the appropriate authority is satisfied that, because of special
circumstances, it is impracticable for the Minister to make the copies
referred to in sub-paragraph (4)(c) available for inspection at an appropriate
place, the appropriate authority may direct that the requirement in sub-
paragraph (4)(c) is not to apply.

##### Proceedings for consideration of draft order

2

2.1

Schedule 1 to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (compulsory purchase by
Minister) is amended as follows.

2.2

In paragraph 4A (proceedings for contested orders), for sub-paragraphs (2) to
(8) substitute—

2.2.1A

The appropriate authority must cause a public local inquiry to be held if—

2.2.1A.a

the order is subject to special parliamentary procedure, or

2.2.1A.b

in the case of an order to which section 16 applies, a certificate has been
given under subsection (2) of that section.

2.2.1B

If sub-paragraph  (1A)  does not apply, the appropriate authority must either—

2.2.1B.a

cause a public local inquiry to be held, or

2.2.1B.b

proceed under the representations procedure.

2.2.1C

In deciding between those options, the appropriate authority must have regard
to the scale and complexity of what is proposed by the draft order.

2.2.1D

The representations procedure is a procedure to be prescribed.

2.2.1E

The regulations prescribing the procedure must include provision—

2.2.1E.a

enabling each person who has made a remaining objection to make
representations—

2.2.1E.a.i

in writing to the appropriate authority, or

2.2.1E.a.ii

if the person so requests, at a hearing, and

2.2.1E.b

enabling the Minister, and any other person the appropriate authority thinks
appropriate, to make representations—

2.2.1E.b.i

in writing to the appropriate authority, or

2.2.1E.b.ii

if applicable, at a hearing held as mentioned in paragraph  (a) (ii) .

2.2.1F

The regulations may provide for hearings to be held by the appropriate
authority or by a person appointed by the appropriate authority.

2.2.1G

In sub-paragraph  (1E) , “ representations ” means representations as to
whether the order should be made.

2.2.1H

Before the Minister makes the order, the appropriate authority must consider—

2.2.1H.a

each remaining objection;

2.2.1H.b

if a public local inquiry was held, the report of the person who held it;

2.2.1H.c

if the representations procedure was followed and the appropriate authority
held a hearing, the representations made at the hearing;

2.2.1H.d

if the representations procedure was followed and a person appointed by the
appropriate authority held a hearing, the report of that person;

2.2.1H.e

if the representations procedure was followed and written representations were
made, those representations.

2.2.1I

The Minister may make the order with or without modifications.

2.2.1J

Regulations under sub-paragraph  (1D)  may include provision as to the giving
of reasons for decisions taken by the appropriate authority in cases where the
representations procedure is followed.

2.3

In paragraph 4B (confirmation of order in stages), in sub-paragraph (3), for
“4A(2) or (3)” substitute  “4A (1A)  or  (1B) ” .

##### Conditional orders

3

3.1

Schedule 1 to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (compulsory purchase by
Minister) is amended as follows.

3.2

After paragraph 4A insert—

3.2.4AA

3.2.4AA.1

The Minister may make a compulsory purchase order conditionally.

3.2.4AA.2

The effect of making an order conditionally is that the order—

3.2.4AA.2.a

does not become operative until the Minister has decided, following
consideration by the appropriate authority (see paragraph 4(8)), that certain
conditions have been met, and

3.2.4AA.2.b

expires if the Minister has not decided that by a certain time.

3.2.4AA.3

The conditions and the time are to be specified by the Minister when making
the order.

3.2.4AA.4

The procedure to be followed in connection with the consideration and decision
referred to in sub-paragraph  (2) (a)  is to be prescribed.

3.2.4AA.5

The prescribed procedure must include provision for each relevant objector—

3.2.4AA.5.a

to be given notice that the appropriate authority is to consider whether the
conditions have been met (or for steps to be taken with a view to notifying
them), and

3.2.4AA.5.b

to have the opportunity to make written representations relating to that
consideration;

and may include provision as to the giving of reasons for the decision by the
Minister.

3.2.4AA.6

In sub-paragraph  (5) , “ relevant objector ” means a person who made an
objection to the draft order that—

3.2.4AA.6.a

was a remaining objection for the purposes of paragraph 4A, and

3.2.4AA.6.b

had not been withdrawn by the time the order was made.

3.3

In paragraph 6 (notices after making of order)—

3.3.a

in sub-paragraph (2)(b), for “date when the order becomes operative”
substitute  “day on which the Minister takes the final step needed to comply
with sub-paragraph (1)(a)” ;

3.3.b

in sub-paragraph (3), at the beginning insert  “Unless the order was made
conditionally,” ;

3.3.c

in sub-paragraph (4), after paragraph (b) insert—

3.3.c.ba

if the order was made conditionally, stating the conditions and time specified
under paragraph  4AA (3) ;

;

3.3.d

after sub-paragraph  (4A)  (inserted by paragraph  1 (6) ) insert—

3.3.d.4B

If the order was made conditionally and the Minister decides under paragraph
4AA  that the conditions have been met, the Minister must serve—

3.3.d.4B.a

a copy of the order, and

3.3.d.4B.b

a fulfilment notice,

on each person on whom a notice was required to be served under paragraph 3.

3.3.d.4C

Where sub-paragraph  (4B)  applies, the Minister must also—

3.3.d.4C.a

affix a fulfilment notice to a conspicuous object or objects on or near the
land comprised in the order, and

3.3.d.4C.b

publish a fulfilment notice—

3.3.d.4C.b.i

in one or more local newspapers circulating in the locality in which the land
comprised in the order is situated, and

3.3.d.4C.b.ii

on an appropriate website, until the end of the period of 6 weeks beginning
with the day on which the Minister takes the final step needed to comply with
sub-paragraph  (4B) .

3.3.d.4D

A fulfilment notice is a notice—

3.3.d.4D.a

stating that the conditions subject to which the order was made have been met
and that the order will therefore become operative, and

3.3.d.4D.b

annexing the information that was contained in the making notice.

;

3.3.e

in sub-paragraph (5), after “notice” insert  “or fulfilment notice” ;

3.3.f

in sub-paragraph (6)—

3.3.f.i

after “notice” insert  “, and any fulfilment notice,” ;

3.3.f.ii

for “it” substitute  “each such notice” .

  Grounds of appeal against final letting notice

Section  201

##### Grounds

1

That the vacancy condition was not met in relation to the premises on the day
on which the initial letting notice was served.

2

That the premises cannot reasonably be considered suitable for the use
identified in the final letting notice as the suitable high-street use.

3

That the local authority’s view that the local benefit condition was met in
relation to the premises was one that no authority giving reasonable
consideration to the matter could have reached.

4

That the local authority failed, while the initial letting notice was in
force, to give consent under section  196  to a proposed tenancy, licence or
agreement where the authority—

4.a

was required by section  197 (1)  to give consent, or

4.b

would have been so required had it not failed to be satisfied as mentioned in
section  197 (2) (c) , when any authority giving reasonable consideration to
the matter would have been so satisfied.

5

That the landlord—

5.a

intends to carry out substantial works of construction, demolition or
reconstruction affecting the premises, and

5.b

could not reasonably carry out those works without retaining possession of the
premises.

6

That the landlord intends to occupy the premises for the purposes, or partly
for the purposes, of a business to be carried on by the landlord in the
premises.

7

That the landlord intends to occupy the premises as the landlord’s residence.

##### Interpretation and application

1

Ground 2 is to be applied in accordance with section  192 (5) .

2

Works carried out in contravention of section  200 (1)  cannot be relied on
for the purposes of ground 5.

3

3.1

Where the landlord has a controlling interest in a company, the references to
the landlord in ground 6 include reference to that company.

3.2

Where the landlord is a company and a person has a controlling interest in the
company, the references to the landlord in grounds 6 and 7 include reference
to that person.

3.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraphs  (1)  and  (2) , a person has a controlling
interest in a company, if, had the person been a company, the other company
would have been its subsidiary.

3.4

In this paragraph—

      “ company ” has the meaning given by section 1(1) of the Companies Act
2006;           “ subsidiary ” has the meaning given by section 1159 of that
Act.

  Provision to be included in terms of tenancy further to contract under
section  204

Section 206

1

Provision about what obligations (if any) the landlord is to have with respect
to the maintenance or repair of anything outside the premises that enables or
facilitates the use of the premises.

2

Provision about what obligations (if any) the landlord is to have with respect
to the supply of water, energy or telecommunications services to the premises.

3

Provision requiring the tenant to keep the premises in repair.

4

Provision about—

4.a

what works and alterations the tenant can or cannot carry out, with or without
the consent of the landlord, and

4.b

(if applicable) the giving or withholding of such consent by the landlord.

5

Provision requiring the tenant to insure the premises (if they are not
otherwise insured).

6

Provision enabling the landlord to recover from the tenant costs reasonably
incurred by or on behalf of the landlord in connection with the premises.

7

Provision about circumstances in which the tenant can or cannot—

7.a

assign the tenancy,

7.b

sub-let the premises, or

7.c

otherwise allow another person to possess or occupy the premises.

8

Provision for, and in connection with, the giving of a deposit by the tenant
to secure the performance of the tenant’s obligations.

9

Provision about the circumstances in which the landlord can re-enter the
premises following a breach of the tenant’s obligations.

10

Provision requiring the tenant to deliver up the premises with vacant
possession at the end of the tenancy.

Pavement licences

Section  229

##### Introductory

1

In this Schedule—

1.a

“ the 2020 Act ” means the Business and Planning Act 2020;

1.b

“ the commencement date ” means the date on which this Schedule comes into
force;

1.c

“ pavement licence ” means a licence under section 1 of the 2020 Act.

##### Making pavement licence provisions permanent

2

2.1

Omit section 10 of the 2020 Act (expiry).

2.2

In section 23 of the 2020 Act (regulations), in subsection (4), omit “10,”.

##### Applications: fees

3

3.1

Section 2 of the 2020 Act (applications) is amended as follows.

3.2

In subsection (1)(c), for “£100” substitute  “the relevant amount” .

3.3

After subsection (1) insert—

3.3.1A

In subsection (1)(c), “ the relevant amount ” means—

3.3.1A.a

£350, in the case of an application which—

3.3.1A.a.i

is made by a person who already holds a pavement licence, and

3.3.1A.a.ii

is in respect of the premises to which that existing licence relates (whether
or not it is a renewal application), and

3.3.1A.b

£500, in any other case.

3.3.1B

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend subsection (1A)(a) or (b) so
as to substitute a different amount for the amount for the time being
specified there.

4

In section 23 of the 2020 Act (regulations), in subsection (3), after
“section” insert  “2(1B) or” .

##### Applications: procedure on renewals

5

5.1

Section 2 of the 2020 Act (applications) is amended as follows.

5.2

After subsection (2) insert—

5.2.2A

If the application is a renewal application—

5.2.2A.a

subsection (2) does not apply, but

5.2.2A.b

the application must contain or be accompanied by such information or material
as the local authority may require.

5.3

After subsection (9) insert—

5.3.10

For the purposes of this section, an application is a renewal application if—

5.3.10.a

it is made by a person who already holds a pavement licence,

5.3.10.b

it is in respect of the premises to which the existing licence relates, and

5.3.10.c

it is for a licence to begin on the expiry of the existing licence and on the
same terms.

##### Applications: periods for consultation and determination

6

In section 2 of the 2020 Act (applications), in subsection (4), for “7”
substitute  “14” .

7

In section 3 of the 2020 Act (determination), in subsection (10), for “7”
substitute  “14” .

##### Duration of licences

8

8.1

Section 4 of the 2020 Act (duration) is amended as follows.

8.2

For subsections (1) and (2) substitute—

8.2.1

A pavement licence may be granted by a local authority for such period as the
authority may specify in the licence.

8.2.2

The period specified may not exceed two years.

8.3

In subsection (3)—

8.3.a

omit “, subject to subsection (4),”;

8.3.b

for “a year” substitute  “two years” .

8.4

Omit subsection (4).

##### Enforcement of licences

9

In section 6 of the 2020 Act (enforcement and revocation), after subsection
(3) insert—

9.4

A local authority by which a pavement licence is granted or deemed to be
granted may, with the consent of the licence-holder, amend the licence if it
considers that—

9.4.a

the condition in subsection (3)(a) or (b) is met, or

9.4.b

a no-obstruction condition of the licence is not being complied with.

##### Effect of licences

10

In section 7 of the 2020 Act (effects), omit—

10.a

subsections (4) to (6);

10.b

subsections (8) to (10).

11

11.1

Section 115E of the Highways Act 1980 (execution of works etc by persons other
than councils) is amended as follows.

11.2

In subsection (1), for “(4)” substitute  “(5)” .

11.3

After subsection (4) insert—

11.3.5

A council may not under this section grant a person permission to do anything
which is capable of being authorised by a pavement licence under section 1 of
the Business and Planning Act 2020.

12

In section 249 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (order extinguishing
right to use vehicles on highway), in subsection (7), at the end insert  “or
sections 1 to 9 of the Business and Planning Act 2020” .

##### Enforcement

13

After section 7 of the 2020 Act insert—

######### Enforcement

13.7A

13.7A.1

The following provisions of this section apply where—

13.7A.1.a

a person puts removable furniture on a relevant highway for a purpose
specified in subsection (2), and

13.7A.1.b

the person is not authorised to do so.

13.7A.2

The purposes referred to in subsection (1)(a) are—

13.7A.2.a

use of the furniture by the person to sell or serve food or drink supplied
from, or in connection with relevant use of, premises which are adjacent to
the highway and are used or proposed to be used by the person;

13.7A.2.b

use of the furniture by other persons for the purpose of consuming food or
drink supplied from, or in connection with relevant use of, such premises.

13.7A.3

The local authority may by notice require the person—

13.7A.3.a

to remove the furniture before a date specified in the notice, and

13.7A.3.b

to refrain from putting furniture on the highway unless authorised to do so.

13.7A.4

If the person leaves or puts removable furniture on the relevant highway in
contravention of the notice, the local authority may—

13.7A.4.a

remove the furniture and store it,

13.7A.4.b

require the person to pay the authority’s reasonable costs in removing and
storing the furniture, and

13.7A.4.c

refuse to return the furniture until those reasonable costs are paid.

13.7A.5

If within the period of three months beginning with the day on which the
notice is given the person does not pay the reasonable costs, or does not
recover the furniture, the local authority may—

13.7A.5.a

dispose of the furniture by sale or in any other way it thinks fit, and

13.7A.5.b

retain any proceeds of sale for any purpose it thinks fit.

13.7A.6

In this section “ authorised ” means authorised by—

13.7A.6.a

a pavement licence,

13.7A.6.b

permission under Part 7A of the Highways Act 1980, or

13.7A.6.c

permission granted under any other enactment.

##### Local authority functions

14

In section 8 of the 2020 Act, omit subsection (2).

15

In Schedule 1 to the Local Authorities (Functions and Responsibilities)
(England) Regulations 2000 ( S.I. 2000/2853 ) (functions which are not to be
the responsibility of an authority’s executive), in paragraph B, after item 72
insert—

73 Functions relating to pavement licences Sections 1 to 7A of the Business
and Planning Act 2020

.

##### Other amendments

16

In section 9 of the 2020 Act (interpretation), omit subsections (2) and (3)
(which are spent).

17

In section 62 of the Anti-social Behaviour, Crime and Policing Act 2014
(premises etc to which alcohol prohibition in a public spaces protection order
does not apply), in subsection (1)(e), at the end insert  “or by virtue of a
pavement licence under section 1 of the Business and Planning Act 2020” .

##### Transitional provision

18

18.1

This paragraph  applies in relation to a pavement licence which is in force
immediately before the commencement date and which—

18.1.a

was granted with no limit on its duration, or

18.1.b

was deemed to be granted under section 3(9) of the 2020 Act.

18.2

A pavement licence to which  this paragraph  applies expires at the end of the
period of two years beginning with the commencement date.

19

The amendments made by paragraph  11  do not affect any permission granted by
a council under section 115E of the Highways Act 1980 before the commencement
date.

Use of non-domestic premises for childcare: registration

Section  237

##### Introductory

1

The Childcare Act 2006 is amended as follows.

##### Early years provision

2

In section 32 (maintenance of the two childcare registers), after subsection
(5) insert—

2.6

In this section—

2.6.a

a reference to persons registered as early years childminders is to be read as
a reference to persons registered as early years childminders with domestic
premises and to persons registered as early years childminders without
domestic premises collectively;

2.6.b

a reference to persons registered as later years childminders is to be read as
a reference to persons registered as later years childminders with domestic
premises and to persons registered as later years childminders without
domestic premises collectively;

2.6.c

a reference to persons registered as childminders by the Chief Inspector for
the purposes of Chapter 4 is to be read as a reference to persons so
registered as childminders with domestic premises and to persons so registered
as childminders without domestic premises collectively.

3

3.1

Section 33 (requirement to register: early years childminders) is amended as
follows.

3.2

In the heading, at the end insert  “with domestic premises” .

3.3

In subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a)—

3.3.a

after “England” insert  “, where some or all of the childminding is provided
on domestic premises,” ;

3.3.b

after “childminder” insert  “with domestic premises” .

4

4.1

Section 34 (requirement to register: early years providers) is amended as
follows.

4.2

For subsections (1) and (1ZA) substitute—

4.2.1

A person may not provide early years provision on non-domestic premises in
England unless—

4.2.1.a

the person is registered in the early years register as an early years
provider other than a childminder (whether or not the provision is or includes
early years childminding), or

4.2.1.b

the provision is early years childminding, none of which is provided on
domestic premises, and the person is registered as an early years childminder
without domestic premises—

4.2.1.b.i

in the early years register, or

4.2.1.b.ii

with an early years childminder agency.

4.2.1ZA

Subsection  (1) (a)  does not apply to early years provision in respect of
which the person providing it is required to be registered under section 33(1)
or under subsection (1A).

4.3

In subsection (1A)—

4.3.a

after “96(5)” insert  “, and some or all of which is provided on domestic
premises,” ;

4.3.b

after “registered” insert  “as an early years provider other than a
childminder” .

5

5.1

Section 35 (applications for registration: early years childminders) is
amended as follows.

5.2

In the heading, at the end insert  “with domestic premises” .

5.3

In subsection (1)—

5.3.a

in paragraph (a), for “as an early years childminder in the early years
register” substitute  “in the early years register as an early years
childminder with domestic premises” ;

5.3.b

in paragraph (b), at the end insert  “with domestic premises” .

5.4

In subsection (5), in each of paragraphs (aa) and (ab), after “as an early
years childminder” insert  “with domestic premises” .

6

6.1

Section 36 (application for registration: other early years providers) is
amended as follows.

6.2

In subsection (1), for the words from “to the Chief” to the end substitute

—

6.2.a

in any case, to the Chief Inspector for registration as an early years
provider other than a childminder, or

6.2.b

if the early years provision is early years childminding—

6.2.b.i

to the Chief Inspector for registration as an early years childminder without
domestic premises, or

6.2.b.ii

to an early years childminder agency for registration with that agency as an
early years childminder without domestic premises,

(whether or not an application is also made under paragraph  (a) ).

6.3

In each of subsections (3) and (4), for “subsection (1)” substitute
“subsection (1) (a)  or  (b) (i) ” .

6.4

In subsection (4A), after “subsection” insert  “(1) (b) (ii)  or” .

6.5

In subsection (5), after paragraph (ab) insert—

6.5.ac

prohibiting the applicant from being registered in the early years register as
an early years childminder without domestic premises if the applicant is
registered with a childminder agency;

6.5.ad

prohibiting the applicant from being registered with an early years
childminder agency as an early years childminder without domestic premises if
the applicant is registered—

6.5.ad.i

with another childminder agency;

6.5.ad.ii

in the early years register or the general childcare register;

.

7

7.1

Section 37 (entry on the register and certificates) is amended as follows.

7.2

In subsection (1)(a), after “childminder” insert  “with domestic premises” .

7.3

In subsection (2)—

7.3.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for “36(1)” substitute  “36(1) (a) ” ;

7.3.b

in paragraph (a), after “childminder” insert  “(even if, in the case of an
application under section 36(1)(a), the early years provision is or includes
early years childminding)” .

7.4

After subsection (2) insert—

7.4.2A

If an application under section 36(1) (b) (i)  is granted, the Chief Inspector
must—

7.4.2A.a

register the applicant in the early years register as an early years
childminder without domestic premises, and

7.4.2A.b

give the applicant a certificate of registration stating that the applicant is
so registered.

7.5

In subsection (3), for “or (2)” substitute  “, (2) or  (2A) ” .

8

8.1

Section 37A (early years childminder agencies: registers and certificates) is
amended as follows.

8.2

In subsection (1)(a), after “childminder” insert  “with domestic premises” .

8.3

After subsection (1) insert—

8.3.1A

If an application under section 36(1) (b) (ii)  is granted, the early years
childminder agency must—

8.3.1A.a

register the applicant in the register maintained by the agency as an early
years childminder without domestic premises, and

8.3.1A.b

give the applicant a certificate of registration stating that the applicant is
so registered.

8.4

In subsection (3), after “(1)” insert  “,  (1A) ” .

##### Later years provision

9

9.1

Section 52 (requirement to register: later years childminders for children
under eight) is amended as follows.

9.2

In the heading, at the end insert  “with domestic premises” .

9.3

In subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a)—

9.3.a

after “eight” insert  “, where some or all of the childminding is provided on
domestic premises,” ;

9.3.b

after “childminder” insert  “with domestic premises” .

10

10.1

Section 53 (requirement to register: other later years providers for children
under eight) is amended as follows.

10.2

For subsections (1) and (1ZA) substitute—

10.2.1

A person may not provide, for a child who has not attained the age of eight,
later years provision on non-domestic premises in England unless—

10.2.1.a

the person is registered in Part A of the general childcare register as a
later years provider other than a childminder (whether or not the provision is
or includes later years childminding), or

10.2.1.b

the provision is later years childminding, none of which is provided on
domestic premises, and the person is registered as a later years childminder
without domestic premises—

10.2.1.b.i

in Part A of the general childcare register, or

10.2.1.b.ii

with a later years childminder agency.

10.2.1ZA

Subsection  (1) (a)  does not apply to later years provision in respect of
which the person providing it is required to be registered under section 52(1)
or under subsection (1A).

10.3

In subsection (1A)—

10.3.a

after “96(9)” insert  “, and some or all of which is provided on domestic
premises,” ;

10.3.b

after “registered” insert  “as a later years provider other than a
childminder” .

11

11.1

Section 54 (applications for registration: later years childminders) is
amended as follows.

11.2

In the heading, at the end insert  “with domestic premises” .

11.3

In subsection (1)—

11.3.a

in paragraph (a), for “as a later years childminder in Part A of the general
childcare register” substitute  “in Part A of the general childcare register
as a later years childminder with domestic premises” ;

11.3.b

in paragraph (b), at the end insert  “with domestic premises” .

11.4

In subsection (5), in each of paragraphs (aa) and (ab), after “as a later
years childminder” insert  “with domestic premises” .

12

12.1

Section 55 (application for registration: other later years providers) is
amended as follows.

12.2

In subsection (1), for the words from “to the Chief” to the end substitute

—

12.2.a

in any case, to the Chief Inspector for registration as a later years provider
other than a childminder, or

12.2.b

if the later years provision is later years childminding—

12.2.b.i

to the Chief Inspector for registration as a later years childminder without
domestic premises, or

12.2.b.ii

to a later years childminder agency for registration with that agency as a
later years childminder without domestic premises,

(whether or not an application is also made under paragraph  (a) ).

12.3

In each of subsections (3) and (4), for “subsection (1)” substitute
“subsection (1) (a)  or  (b) (i) ” .

12.4

In subsection (4A), after “subsection” insert  “(1) (b) (ii)  or” .

12.5

In subsection (5), after paragraph (ab) insert—

12.5.ac

prohibiting the applicant from being registered in Part A of the general
childcare register as a later years childminder without domestic premises if
the applicant is registered with a childminder agency;

12.5.ad

prohibiting the applicant from being registered with a later years childminder
agency as a later years childminder without domestic premises if the applicant
is registered—

12.5.ad.i

with another childminder agency;

12.5.ad.ii

in the early years register or the general childcare register;

.

13

13.1

Section 56 (entry on the register and certificates) is amended as follows.

13.2

In subsection (1), in paragraph (a), after “childminder” insert  “with
domestic premises” .

13.3

In subsection (2)—

13.3.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for “55(1)” substitute  “55(1) (a) ” ;

13.3.b

in paragraph (a), after “childminder” insert  “(even if, in the case of an
application under section 55(1)(a), the later years provision is or includes
later years childminding)” .

13.4

After subsection (2) insert—

13.4.2A

If an application under section 55(1) (b) (i)  is granted, the Chief Inspector
must—

13.4.2A.a

register the applicant in Part A of the general childcare register as a later
years childminder without domestic premises, and

13.4.2A.b

give the applicant a certificate of registration stating that the applicant is
so registered.

13.5

In subsection (3), for “or (2)” substitute  “, (2) or  (2A) ” .

14

14.1

Section 56A (later years childminder agencies: registers and certificates) is
amended as follows.

14.2

In subsection (1)(a), after “childminder” insert  “with domestic premises” .

14.3

After subsection (1) insert—

14.3.1A

If an application under section 55(1) (b) (ii)  is granted, the later years
childminder agency must—

14.3.1A.a

register the applicant in the register maintained by the agency as a later
years childminder without domestic premises, and

14.3.1A.b

give the applicant a certificate of registration stating that the applicant is
so registered.

14.4

In subsection (3), after “(1)” insert  “,  (1A) ” .

15

In section 57 (special procedure for providers registered in the early years
register), in subsection (1)—

15.a

in the words before paragraph (a), after “childminder” insert  “with or
without domestic premises” ;

15.b

in paragraph (a), for “as a later years childminder” substitute

—

15.b.i

in the case of an early years childminder with domestic premises, as a later
years childminder with domestic premises;

15.b.ii

otherwise, as a later years childminder without domestic premises

.

16

16.1

Section 57A (special procedure for providers registered with early years
childminder agencies) is amended as follows.

16.2

In subsection (1)(a), after “childminder” insert  “with or without domestic
premises” .

16.3

In subsection (2)(a), for “as a later years childminder” substitute

—

16.3.i

in the case of an early years childminder with domestic premises, as a later
years childminder with domestic premises;

16.3.ii

otherwise, as a later years childminder without domestic premises

.

##### Voluntary registration

17

17.1

Section 62 (applications for registration on the general register:
childminders) is amended as follows.

17.2

In the heading, at the end insert  “with domestic premises” .

17.3

In subsection (1), in the words after paragraph (b)—

17.3.a

before “may” insert  “where some or all of the childminding is (or is to be)
provided on domestic premises,” ;

17.3.b

at the end insert  “with domestic premises” .

18

In section 63 (applications for registration on the general register: other
childcare providers), for subsection (1) substitute—

18.A1

Subsection (1) applies to a person who provides or proposes to provide on
premises in England—

18.A1.a

later years provision for a child who has attained the age of eight, or

18.A1.b

early years provision or later years provision for a child who has not
attained that age but in respect of which the person is not required to be
registered under Chapter 2 or 3,

except where it is provision in respect of which an application for
registration may be made under section 62.

18.1

The person may make an application to the Chief Inspector—

18.1.a

in any case, for registration in Part B of the general childcare register as a
provider of childcare other than a childminder, or

18.1.b

where the provision is early years childminding or later years childminding,
for registration in Part B of the general childcare register as a childminder
without domestic premises (whether or not an application is also made under
paragraph  (a) ).

19

19.1

Section 64 (entry on the register and certificates) is amended as follows.

19.2

In subsection (1)(a), after “childminder” insert  “with domestic premises” .

19.3

In subsection (2)—

19.3.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for “63(1)” substitute  “63 (1) (a) ” ;

19.3.b

in paragraph (a), after “childminder” insert  “(even if the childcare to be
provided is or includes early years or later years childminding)” .

19.4

After subsection (2) insert—

19.4.2A

If an application under section 63 (1) (b)  is granted, the Chief Inspector
must—

19.4.2A.a

register the applicant in Part B of the general childcare register as a
childminder without domestic premises, and

19.4.2A.b

give the applicant a certificate of registration stating that the applicant is
so registered.

19.5

In subsection (3), for “or (2)” substitute  “, (2) or  (2A) ” .

20

In section 65 (special procedure for persons already registered in a childcare
register), in subsection (1)—

20.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for the words from “a childminder” to “Part
A of the general childcare register” substitute  “an early years childminder
with or without domestic premises in the early years register, or as a later
years childminder with or without domestic premises in Part A of the general
childcare register,” ;

20.b

in paragraph (a), after “childminder” insert  “(as the case may be, with or
without domestic premises)” .

21

21.1

Section 65A (special procedure for persons already registered with a
childminder agency) is amended as follows.

21.2

In subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a)—

21.2.a

after the first “early years childminder” insert  “with or without domestic
premises” ;

21.2.b

after the first “later years childminder” insert  “with or without domestic
premises” .

21.3

In subsection (2)(a), after “Chapter” insert  “(as the case may be, with or
without domestic premises)” .

##### Common provisions

22

22.1

Section 68 (cancellation of registration in a childcare register: early years
and later years providers) is amended as follows.

22.2

In subsection (3), for the words from “as an early years childminder” to the
end substitute

—

22.2.a

as an early years childminder with domestic premises if it appears to the
Chief Inspector that the person has not provided early years childminding on
domestic premises in England for a period of more than three years during
which the person was registered;

22.2.b

as an early years childminder without domestic premises if it appears to the
Chief Inspector that the person has not provided early years childminding on
non-domestic premises in England for a period of more than three years during
which the person was registered.

22.3

In subsection (4), for the words from “as a later years childminder” to the
end substitute

—

22.3.a

as a later years childminder with domestic premises if it appears to the Chief
Inspector that the person has not provided later years childminding on
domestic premises in England for a period of more than three years during
which the person was registered;

22.3.b

as a later years childminder without domestic premises if it appears to the
Chief Inspector that the person has not provided later years childminding on
non-domestic premises in England for a period of more than three years during
which the person was registered.

22.4

In subsection (5), for the words from “as a childminder” to the end substitute

—

22.4.a

as a childminder with domestic premises if it appears to the Chief Inspector
that the person has provided neither early years childminding nor later years
childminding on domestic premises in England for a period of more than three
years during which the person was registered;

22.4.b

as a childminder without domestic premises if it appears to the Chief
Inspector that the person has provided neither early years childminding nor
later years childminding on non-domestic premises in England for a period of
more than three years during which the person was registered.

23

In section 69 (suspension of registration in a childcare register: early years
and later years providers), in each of subsections (3) and (4), after
“childminder” insert  “with or without domestic premises” .

24

24.1

Section 98 (interpretation of Part 3) is amended as follows.

24.2

In subsection (1), in the definition of “domestic premises”, at the end insert
“(and references to non-domestic premises are to be construed accordingly)” .

24.3

After subsection (1A) insert—

24.3.1B

In this Part, references to a person registered—

24.3.1B.a

as an early years childminder with domestic premises are to a person
registered as such under section 37(1)(a) or 37A(1)(a);

24.3.1B.b

as an early years childminder without domestic premises are to a person
registered as such under section 37 (2A)  or 37A (1A) ;

24.3.1B.c

as a later years childminder with domestic premises are to a person registered
as such under section 56(1)(a) or 56A(1)(a);

24.3.1B.d

as a later years childminder without domestic premises are to a person
registered as such under section 56 (2A)  or 56A (1A) .

Regulations under Chapter 1 of Part 3 or Part 6: form and scrutiny

Section 252 (10)

##### Statutory Instruments and statutory Rules

1

1.1

Any power to make regulations under  Chapter 1  of  Part 3  or  Part 6 —

1.1.a

so far as exercisable by the Secretary of State acting alone or by the
Secretary of State acting jointly with a devolved authority, is exercisable by
statutory instrument,

1.1.b

so far as exercisable by the Welsh Ministers acting alone, is exercisable by
statutory instrument, and

1.1.c

so far as exercisable by a Northern Ireland department acting alone, is
exercisable by statutory rule for the purposes of the Statutory Rules
(Northern Ireland) Order 1979 ( S.I. 1979/1573 (N.I. 12))  (and not by
statutory instrument).

1.2

For regulations made under  Chapter 1  of  Part 3  or  Part 6  by the Scottish
Ministers acting alone, see also section 27 of the Interpretation and
Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act  2010 (asp 10)  (Scottish statutory
instruments).

##### Scrutiny of regulations

###### Scrutiny of regulations made by Secretary of State or devolved authority acting alone

2

2.1

This paragraph applies to regulations made by the Secretary of State, or a
devolved authority, acting alone which contain provision (whether alone or
with other provision) under—

2.1.a

section  152  or  153 ;

2.1.b

section  154  other than provision, made on the second or subsequent exercise
of a power in that section, for—

2.1.b.i

a description of consent, which is neither category 1 consent nor category 2
consent, to be either category 1 consent or category 2 consent, or

2.1.b.ii

a description of consent which is category 2 consent to be category 1 consent;

2.1.c

section  159 (2)  or  160 .

2.2

A statutory instrument containing regulations to which this paragraph applies
of the Secretary of State acting alone may not be made unless a draft of the
instrument has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each House
of Parliament.

2.3

Regulations to which this paragraph applies of the Scottish Ministers acting
alone are subject to the affirmative procedure (see section 29 of the
Interpretation and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act  2010 (asp 10) ).

2.4

A statutory instrument containing regulations to which this paragraph applies
of the Welsh Ministers acting alone may not be made unless a draft of the
instrument has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, Senedd
Cymru.

2.5

Regulations to which this paragraph applies of a Northern Ireland department
acting alone may not be made unless a draft of the regulations has been laid
before, and approved by a resolution of, the Northern Ireland Assembly.

3

3.1

This paragraph applies to regulations made by the Secretary of State, or a
devolved authority, acting alone which contain provision (whether alone or
with other provision) under  Chapter 1  of  Part 3  or  Part 6  and which do
not fall within paragraph  2 .

3.2

A statutory instrument containing regulations to which this paragraph applies
of the Secretary of State acting alone is subject to annulment in pursuance of
a resolution of either House of Parliament.

3.3

Regulations to which this paragraph applies of the Scottish Ministers acting
alone are subject to the negative procedure (see section 28 of the
Interpretation and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act 2010).

3.4

A statutory instrument containing regulations to which this paragraph applies
of the Welsh Ministers acting alone is subject to annulment in pursuance of a
resolution of Senedd Cymru.

3.5

Regulations to which this paragraph applies of a Northern Ireland department
acting alone are subject to negative resolution within the meaning of section
41(6) of the Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954 as if they were a
statutory instrument within the meaning of that Act.

4

Paragraph  3  does not apply if—

4.a

a draft of the instrument has been laid before, and approved by a resolution
of, each House of Parliament;

4.b

a draft of the Scottish statutory instrument has been laid before, and
approved by resolution of, the Scottish Parliament;

4.c

a draft of the instrument has been laid before, and approved by a resolution
of, Senedd Cymru; or

4.d

a draft of the regulations has been laid before, and approved by a resolution
of, the Northern Ireland Assembly.

###### Scrutiny of regulations made by the Secretary of State and devolved authority acting jointly

5

5.1

This paragraph applies to regulations of the Secretary of State acting jointly
with a devolved authority which contain provision (whether alone or with other
provision) under—

5.1.a

section  152  or  153 ;

5.1.b

section  154  other than provision, made on the second or subsequent exercise
of a power in that section, for—

5.1.b.i

a description of consent, which is neither category 1 consent nor category 2
consent, to be either category 1 consent or category 2 consent, or

5.1.b.ii

a description of consent which is category 2 consent to be category 1 consent;

5.1.c

section  159 (2)  or  160 .

5.2

The procedure provided for by sub-paragraph  (3)  applies in relation to
regulations to which this paragraph applies as well as any other procedure
provided for by this paragraph which is applicable in relation to the
regulations concerned.

5.3

A statutory instrument which contains regulations to which this paragraph
applies may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before,
and approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament.

5.4

Regulations to which this paragraph applies which are made jointly with the
Scottish Ministers are subject to the affirmative procedure.

5.5

Section 29 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act 2010
(affirmative procedure) applies in relation to regulations to which sub-
paragraph  (4)  applies as it applies in relation to devolved subordinate
legislation (within the meaning of Part 2 of that Act) which is subject to the
affirmative procedure (but as if references to a Scottish statutory instrument
were references to a statutory instrument).

5.6

Section 32 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act 2010
(laying) applies in relation to the laying before the Scottish Parliament of a
statutory instrument containing regulations to which sub-paragraph  (4)
applies as it applies in relation to the laying before the Scottish Parliament
of a Scottish statutory instrument (within the meaning of Part 2 of that Act).

5.7

A statutory instrument containing regulations to which this paragraph applies
which are made jointly with the Welsh Ministers may not be made unless a draft
of the instrument has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of,
Senedd Cymru.

5.8

Regulations to which this paragraph applies which are made jointly with a
Northern Ireland department may not be made unless a draft of the regulations
has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, the Northern Ireland
Assembly.

6

6.1

This paragraph applies to regulations of the Secretary of State acting jointly
with a devolved authority which contain provision (whether alone or with other
provision) under  Chapter 1  of  Part 3  or  Part 6  and which do not fall
within paragraph  5 .

6.2

The procedure provided for by sub-paragraph  (3)  applies in relation to
regulations to which this paragraph applies as well as any other procedure
provided for by this paragraph which is applicable in relation to the
regulations concerned.

6.3

A statutory instrument containing regulations to which this paragraph applies
is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

6.4

Regulations to which this paragraph applies which are made jointly with the
Scottish Ministers are subject to the negative procedure.

6.5

Sections 28(2), (3) and (8) and 31 of the Interpretation and Legislative
Reform (Scotland) Act  2010 (asp 10)  (negative procedure etc.) apply in
relation to regulations to which sub-paragraph  (4)  applies and which are
subject to the negative procedure as they apply in relation to devolved
subordinate legislation (within the meaning of Part 2 of that Act) which is
subject to the negative procedure (but as if references to a Scottish
statutory instrument were references to a statutory instrument).

6.6

Section 32 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act 2010
(laying) applies in relation to the laying before the Scottish Parliament of a
statutory instrument containing regulations to which sub-paragraph  (4)
applies as it applies in relation to the laying before that Parliament of a
Scottish statutory instrument (within the meaning of Part 2 of that Act).

6.7

A statutory instrument containing regulations to which this paragraph applies
which are made jointly with the Welsh Ministers is subject to annulment in
pursuance of a resolution of Senedd Cymru.

6.8

Regulations to which this paragraph applies which are made jointly with a
Northern Ireland department are subject to negative resolution within the
meaning of section 41(6) of the Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954 as
if they were a statutory instrument within the meaning of that Act.

6.9

If in accordance with this paragraph—

6.9.a

either House of Parliament resolves that an address be presented to His
Majesty praying that an instrument be annulled, or

6.9.b

a relevant devolved legislature resolves that an instrument be annulled,

nothing further is to be done under the instrument after the date of the
resolution and His Majesty may by Order in Council revoke the instrument.

6.10

In sub-paragraph  (9)  “ relevant devolved legislature ” means—

6.10.a

in the case of regulations made jointly with the Scottish Ministers, the
Scottish Parliament,

6.10.b

in the case of regulations made jointly with the Welsh Ministers, Senedd
Cymru, and

6.10.c

in the case of regulations made jointly with a Northern Ireland department,
the Northern Ireland Assembly.

6.11

Sub-paragraph  (9)  does not affect the validity of anything previously done
under the instrument or prevent the making of a new instrument.

6.12

Sub-paragraphs  (9)  to  (11)  apply in place of provision made by any other
enactment about the effect of such a resolution.

6.13

In this paragraph, “ enactment ” includes an enactment contained in, or in an
instrument made under—

6.13.a

an Act of the Scottish Parliament,

6.13.b

a Measure or Act of Senedd Cymru, or

6.13.c

Northern Ireland legislation.

7

Paragraph  6  does not apply if a draft of the instrument has been laid
before, and approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament.

###### Interpretation

8

In this Schedule “ devolved authority ” means—

8.a

the Scottish Ministers,

8.b

the Welsh Ministers, or

8.c

a Northern Ireland department.

