Title: Moveable Transactions (Scotland) Act 2023
Date: 2023-08-09
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2023/3

## Moveable Transactions (Scotland) Act 2023

### Assignation

#### Assignation of claims, protection of debtors and related matters

##### Assignation of claims

###### Assignation of claims: general

1

1.1

The assignation of a claim requires the execution or authentication of a
document assigning the claim (an “assignation document”) by the person
assigning it.

1.2

The assignation document must identify the claim.

1.3

But an assignation document which assigns a number of claims need not identify
each claim separately provided that the document identifies the claims in
terms of their constituting an identifiable class.

1.4

It is competent to assign a claim which, at the time the assignation document
is granted, is not held by the assignor (whether or not the claim yet exists
at that time).

1.5

For the purposes of subsection (2), the ways in which the claim can be
identified in the assignation document include by making reference in the
assignation document to another document, the terms of which are not
reproduced.

1.6

Nothing in  this Part  applies to the assignation of a claim as part of a
financial collateral arrangement, within the meaning of regulation 3(1) of the
Financial Collateral Arrangements (No.2) Regulations 2003 ( S.I. 2003/3226 ).

###### Assignation of claim subject to a condition

2

2.1

The assignation of a claim may be subject to a condition which must be
satisfied before the claim is transferred.

2.2

Any such condition must be specified in the assignation document.

2.3

The condition may, for example—

2.3.a

be the occurrence of a particular date,

2.3.b

depend on something happening (whether or not it is certain that the thing
will happen), or

2.3.c

depend on a period of time elapsing during which something must not happen
(whether or not it is certain that the thing will happen at some time).

2.4

For the purposes of  subsection (2) , the ways in which the condition can be
specified in the assignation document include by making reference in the
assignation document to another document, the terms of which are not
reproduced.

###### Transfer of claims

3

3.1

A claim in respect of which an assignation document is granted is transferred
on the requirements mentioned in  subsection (2)  all being met.

3.2

Those requirements are that—

3.2.a

the assignor is the holder of the claim,

3.2.b

either—

3.2.b.i

intimation of the assignation is effected under  section 8 (1) , or

3.2.b.ii

the assignation document is registered,

3.2.c

the claim is identifiable as a claim to which the assignation document
relates, and

3.2.d

if the assignation is subject to a condition which must be satisfied before
the claim is transferred, the condition is satisfied.

3.3

For the purposes of  subsection (1) , if the claim is a claim such as is
mentioned in  section 1 (4) —

3.3.a

the requirement mentioned in  subsection (2) (a)  is met when the assignor
becomes the holder of the claim, and

3.3.b

any rule of law as to accretion does not apply in relation to the claim.

3.4

Subsection (2) (b) (ii)  is subject to  section 27  (effective registration of
assignation document) and, accordingly, the requirement of that subsection—

3.4.a

is not met if the registration of the assignation document is ineffective in
accordance with  section 27 (1) , and

3.4.b

is met if and when that registration becomes effective in accordance with
section 27 (3) .

3.5

Subsection (6)  applies where—

3.5.a

an assignor grants more than one assignation document in respect of the same
claim,

3.5.b

each of the purported assignations of the claim is to a different person, and

3.5.c

the requirements of  subsection (2)  are all met in relation to each of the
purported assignations at the same time by virtue of—

3.5.c.i

the assignor becoming the holder of the claim,

3.5.c.ii

the claim becoming identifiable as a claim to which the assignation document
relates, or

3.5.c.iii

where each of the purported assignations is subject to a condition which must
be satisfied before the claim is transferred, those conditions being satisfied
at the same time.

3.6

The claim transfers under  subsection (1)  to the person to whom it is
assigned by whichever of the purported assignations of the claim first met the
requirement of  subsection (2) (b) .

3.7

This section  is subject to  section 4  (assignation of claims: insolvency).

3.8

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations prescribe types of claim in relation
to which  sub-paragraph (i)  of  subsection (2) (b)  is to be disregarded.

###### Assignation of claims: insolvency

4

4.1

This section  applies where—

4.1.a

an assignation document is granted in respect of a claim such as is mentioned
in  section 1 (4) , and

4.1.b

after the document is granted, the assignor becomes insolvent.

4.2

The assignation is ineffective in relation to the claim if the assignor
becomes the holder of the claim after becoming insolvent.

4.3

But  subsection (2)  does not apply in relation to a claim in respect of
income from property in so far as that claim—

4.3.a

is not attributable to anything agreed to by, or done by, the assignor after
the assignor became insolvent, and

4.3.b

relates to the use of property in existence at the time the assignor became
insolvent.

4.4

Subsection  (5)  applies where—

4.4.a

but for  subsection (3) , the assignation would be ineffective by virtue of
subsection (2) , and

4.4.b

the assignor is discharged—

4.4.b.i

under section 137, 138 or 140 of the Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 2016, or

4.4.b.ii

by virtue of section 184(3) of that Act.

4.5

The assignation is ineffective, in relation to the claim, if by the time of
discharge the assignor has not become the holder of the claim.

4.6

For the purposes of  this section —

4.6.a

an assignor who is an individual, or the estate of which may be sequestrated
by virtue of section 6 of the Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 2016, becomes
insolvent when—

4.6.a.i

the assignor’s estate is sequestrated,

4.6.a.ii

the assignor grants a trust deed for creditors or makes a composition or
arrangement with creditors,

4.6.a.iii

the assignor is adjudged bankrupt,

4.6.a.iv

a voluntary arrangement proposed by the assignor is approved,

4.6.a.v

the assignor’s application for a debt payment programme is approved under
section 2 of the Debt Arrangement and Attachment (Scotland) Act 2002, or

4.6.a.vi

the assignor becomes subject to any other order or arrangement analogous to
any of those mentioned in  sub-paragraphs (i)  to  (v)  anywhere in the world,
and

4.6.b

an assignor other than is mentioned in  paragraph (a)  becomes insolvent when—

4.6.b.i

a decision approving a voluntary arrangement entered into by the assignor has
effect under section 4A of the Insolvency Act 1986 (the “ 1986 Act ”),

4.6.b.ii

the assignor is wound up under Part 4 or 5 of the 1986 Act or under section
367 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000,

4.6.b.iii

an administrative receiver, as defined in section 251 of the 1986 Act, is
appointed over all or part (being a part which includes the claim) of the
property of the assignor,

4.6.b.iv

the assignor enters administration (“enters administration” being construed in
accordance with paragraph 1(2) of schedule B1 of the 1986 Act),

4.6.b.v

an order under section 901F of the Companies Act 2006 sanctioning a compromise
or arrangement entered into by the assignor comes into effect over all or part
of the property of the assignor, or

4.6.b.vi

the assignor becomes subject to any other order, appointment or arrangement
analogous to any of those mentioned in sub-paragraphs (i) to (v) anywhere in
the world.

4.7

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify—

4.7.a

subsection (4) ,

4.7.b

subsection (5) ,

4.7.c

subsection (6) .

###### Assignation in part

5

5.1

A claim may be assigned in whole or in part.

5.2

But if the claim is not a monetary claim, the claim may be assigned in part
only if the claim is divisible and either—

5.2.a

the debtor consents, or

5.2.b

the assignation is not likely to result in the obligation to which it relates
becoming significantly more burdensome for the debtor.

5.3

Except in so far as the debtor agrees otherwise with the assignor, or agreed
otherwise with a person who was previously the holder of the claim (when that
person was the holder), the assignor is liable to the debtor for any expense
incurred by the debtor which is attributable to the claim’s being assigned in
part rather than in whole.

###### Limitations as to assignability: general

6

6.1

Nothing in  this Part  affects any other enactment, or any rule of law, by
virtue of which the assignation of a claim is of no effect.

6.2

But such an enactment or rule of law does not apply to an assignation if the
grounds on which the assignation would be of no effect by virtue of that
enactment or rule are grounds which  this Part  provides do not make the
assignation of no effect.

6.3

The assignation, in whole or in part, of a claim is of no effect if and in so
far as, before the assignation document in respect of the claim was granted—

6.3.a

the debtor and the holder of the claim had agreed that the claim was not to be
so assigned, or

6.3.b

the person whose unilateral undertaking gives rise to the claim had stated
that the claim was not to be so assigned.

6.4

For the purposes of  subsection (3) (a) , it does not matter whether the
holder of the claim became the holder of the claim after the agreement was
made.

6.5

Nothing in  subsection (3)  affects the operation of any other enactment
concerning the effect of an agreement or statement such as is mentioned in
that subsection.

###### Claim in respect of wages or salary

7

7.1

It is not competent for an individual to assign a claim in respect of wages or
salary payable to the individual.

7.2

For the purposes of  subsection (1) , “wages” and “salary” include—

7.2.a

any of the following which is referable to the individual’s employment
(whether or not payable under the individual’s contract of employment)—

7.2.a.i

a fee,

7.2.a.ii

a bonus,

7.2.a.iii

commission,

7.2.a.iv

holiday pay, or

7.2.a.v

any other emolument,

7.2.b

any payment in respect of expenses incurred by the individual in carrying out
that employment, and

7.2.c

if the individual is dismissed from that employment by reason of redundancy,
any payment referable to the redundancy.

7.3

Nothing in  subsection (1)  affects the operation of any other enactment
allowing the assignation of a claim such as is mentioned in that subsection in
particular circumstances.

###### Intimation of the assignation of a claim

8

8.1

For the purposes of  section 3 (2) (b) (i) , intimation is effected only—

8.1.a

by the assignor or the assignee serving notice of the assignation on the
debtor, or

8.1.b

on the occurrence either—

8.1.b.i

of the debtor acknowledging to the assignee that the claim is assigned, or

8.1.b.ii

of intimation to the debtor, in judicial proceedings to which the debtor is a
party, that the assignation is founded on in the proceedings.

8.2

Where there are co-debtors in respect of a claim, intimation as respects any
one or more of them is, for the purposes of  section 3 (2) (b) (i) ,
intimation to them all.

8.3

A notice served under  subsection (1) (a) —

8.3.a

must—

8.3.a.i

set out the name and address of both the assignor and the assignee,

8.3.a.ii

provide details of the claim assigned, and

8.3.a.iii

in the case of a claim assigned in part, provide details of the part assigned,

8.3.b

must be in writing and consist of, or be contained within, one or more
documents,

8.3.c

need not be executed or authenticated, and

8.3.d

if the claim is a monetary claim, may (but need not) be in such form (if any)
as is prescribed for the purposes of  this paragraph .

8.4

Where a notice is served as mentioned in  subsection (5) (c) ,  paragraph (a)
of  subsection (3)  may be satisfied by providing an electronic link to a
website, or to a portal, in which the information mentioned in that paragraph
is set out.

8.5

For the purposes of  subsection (1) (a) , service of a notice must be by—

8.5.a

delivering the notice personally to the debtor,

8.5.b

sending it—

8.5.b.i

by postal services, or

8.5.b.ii

by any other service which conveys postal packets from one place to another,

either to the proper address of the debtor or to an address for postal
communication provided to the assignor by the debtor, or

8.5.c

transmitting it to an address for electronic communication so provided.

8.6

But a determination (a “determination as to method of service”) may be made in
accordance with  subsection (7)  that, as respects the claim (either or both)—

8.6.a

only certain paragraphs and sub-paragraphs of  subsection (5) , as specified
in the determination, are to apply for the purposes of  section 3 (2) (b) (i)
,

8.6.b

subsection (5)  is to apply as if for the closing words of  paragraph (b)
there were substituted a reference to a particular address as specified in the
determination.

8.7

A determination as to method of service is made in accordance with  this
subsection  where it is made—

8.7.a

by written agreement between the debtor and the holder of the claim, or

8.7.b

where a unilateral undertaking gives rise to the claim, by a written statement
(whether or not comprised within the undertaking) of the person whose
undertaking it was. 

8.8

Where a determination as to method of service specifies an address as
mentioned in  subsection (6) (b) —

8.8.a

the debtor may notify the holder of the claim of a different address to
replace—

8.8.a.i

the address so specified, or

8.8.a.ii

an address previously notified under  this paragraph , and

8.8.b

an address notified under  paragraph (a)  is, until a further address is so
notified, to be treated for the purposes of  subsection (6) (b)  as if it were
specified in the determination.

8.9

Where a notice is served—

8.9.a

as mentioned in  subsection (5) (b)  (including, where relevant, as modified
by  subsection (6) (b) ), and

8.9.b

by being sent to an address in the United Kingdom,

it is to be taken to have been received 48 hours after it is sent unless it is
shown to have been received earlier.

8.10

Where a notice is served as mentioned in  subsection (5) (c) , it is to be
taken to have been received 24 hours after it is transmitted unless it is
shown to have been received earlier.

8.11

In  this section —

      “ holder of the claim ” includes a person who becomes the holder of the
claim after a determination is made,           “ postal packet” and “postal
services ” have the meanings given by section 27(1) and (2) of the Postal
Services Act 2011,           “ proper address of the debtor ” means—
in the case of a body corporate, the address of the registered or principal
office of the body,           in the case of a partnership, the address of the
principal office of the partnership, and           in any other case, the last
known address of the debtor.

8.12

Any reference in  this section  to—

8.12.a

a notice being served on the debtor is to be construed as including a
reference to its being served on a person authorised to receive such a notice
on behalf of the debtor,

8.12.b

the proper address of the debtor is, where a notice is served on a person so
authorised, to be construed as a reference to the proper address of that
person.

###### Warrandice implied in the assignation of a claim

9

9.1

Subsections (2)  to  (5)  apply except in so far as the assignor and the
assignee agree otherwise.

9.2

In granting, for value, an assignation document in respect of a claim, the
assignor is taken to warrant to the assignee that—

9.2.a

the assignor is entitled to, or (in the case of any such claim as is mentioned
in  section 1 (4) ) will be entitled to, transfer the claim to the assignee,

9.2.b

the debtor is obliged to, or (when performance becomes due) will be obliged
to, perform in full to the assignor, and

9.2.c

the assignor has done nothing, and will do nothing, to prejudice the
assignation.

9.3

In granting, other than for value, an assignation document in respect of a
claim, the assignor is taken to warrant to the assignee that the assignor will
do nothing to prejudice the assignation.

9.4

In granting an assignation document in respect of a claim (whether or not for
value), the assignor is not taken to warrant to the assignee that the debtor
will perform to the assignee.

9.5

Subsections (2)  to  (4)  apply in relation to providing, in a contract or
unilateral undertaking, for the assignation of a claim as they apply in
relation to the granting of an assignation document in respect of a claim.

##### Protection of debtors

###### Protection of debtor who performs in good faith

10

10.1

Subsection (2)  applies where, after a claim is transferred, the debtor, or
any co-debtor, performs in good faith to the person last known to the debtor,
or that co-debtor, to be the holder of the claim.

10.2

The debtor, or (where there are two or more co-debtors) each of the co-
debtors, is discharged from the claim to the extent of the performance.

10.3

For the purpose of  subsection (2) , it is not to be taken that a debtor, or
any co-debtor, has performed other than in good faith by reason only of (any
or all of)—

10.3.a

an assignation document’s having been registered,

10.3.b

the application of  section 8 (9) ,

10.3.c

the application of  section 8 (10) .

###### Further provision as to protection of debtor

11

11.1

Subsection (2)  applies where—

11.1.a

the holder of a claim purports to assign the claim (or the same part of the
claim) by means of more than one assignation document, each in favour of a
different person,

11.1.b

the claim (or part) is transferred to one of those persons,

11.1.c

the debtor, or any co-debtor, receives notice of the purported assignation to
the other (or, as the case may be, another) of those persons (the “purported
assignee”), from the person who granted the purported assignation or from the
purported assignee, in the manner mentioned in  section 8 (1) (a)  or  (b)
(ii) , and

11.1.d

by virtue of that notice, the debtor, or any co-debtor, performs in good faith
to the purported assignee.

11.2

The debtor, or (where there are two or more co-debtors) each of the co-
debtors, is discharged from the claim (or part) to the extent of the
performance.

11.3

Section 10 (3)  applies for the purposes of  subsection (2)  as it applies for
the purposes of  section 10 (2) .

###### Performance in good faith where claim assigned cannot be transferred by intimation

12

12.1

Subsection (2)  applies where—

12.1.a

by virtue only of being of a type prescribed under  section 3 (8) , a claim in
respect of which an assignation document is granted is not transferred, and

12.1.b

the debtor, or any co-debtor, performs in good faith to the assignee.

12.2

The debtor, or (where there are two or more co-debtors) each of the co-
debtors, is discharged from the claim to the extent of the performance.

12.3

For the purposes of  subsection (1) (b) , a debtor, or co-debtor, is not to be
taken to perform in good faith where that debtor or co-debtor knows—

12.3.a

that the assignation document has not been registered, and

12.3.b

that transfer of the claim requires registration.

###### Performance in good faith where claim assigned subject to condition

13

13.1

Subsection (2) applies where—

13.1.a

a claim in respect of which an assignation document is granted is subject to a
condition which must be satisfied before the claim is transferred,

13.1.b

the claim has not yet been transferred by virtue only of the condition not yet
being satisfied, and

13.1.c

the debtor, or any co-debtor, performs in good faith to the assignee.

13.2

The debtor, or (where there are two or more co-debtors) each of the co-
debtors, is discharged from the claim to the extent of the performance.

13.3

Section 10(3) applies for the purposes of subsection (2) as it applies for the
purposes of section 10(2).

###### Asserting defence or right of compensation

14

14.1

Except in so far as the debtor and the assignor agree otherwise before an
assignation document is granted in respect of the claim, the debtor, or any
co-debtor, may assert against the assignee any defence which the debtor, or
co-debtor, would have had the right to assert against the assignor.

14.2

Nothing in  subsection (1)  affects the operation of any other enactment which
restricts or prevents the making of such an agreement.

14.3

For the purposes of any enactment or rule of law concerning compensation, set-
off, retention, balancing of accounts or counterclaims, a debtor is not to be
treated as receiving notice of the assignation of a claim only because an
assignation document is registered in respect of the claim.

###### Right to withhold performance until information as to assignation is provided

15

15.1

A debtor on whom a notice of assignation of a claim is served under  section 8
(1) (a)  by an assignee may request from the assignee reasonable evidence of
the granting of an assignation document in respect of the claim.

15.2

For the purposes of  subsection (1) , “ reasonable evidence ” includes, for
example, the written confirmation of an assignor that the assignor granted the
document.

15.3

Subsection (1)  applies to a purported notice of assignation as it applies to
a notice of assignation, and a reference in that subsection to an assignee
includes a reference to a purported assignee.

15.4

If evidence is requested under  subsection (1) , the debtor may withhold
performance until—

15.4.a

that evidence is received, or

15.4.b

the debtor receives notification in writing from the purported assignee or the
purported assignor that an assignation document has not been granted in
respect of the claim.

15.5

A debtor who, other than by virtue of  section 8 (1) , has reasonable grounds
to believe that an assignation document has been granted in respect of a claim
may state those grounds to the supposed assignor and request that person to
provide a written statement as to whether the document has been granted.

15.6

If a written statement provided by virtue of  subsection (5)  is to the effect
that the document has been granted, that statement must include the name and
last known address of the assignee.

15.7

If a written statement is requested under  subsection (5) , the debtor may
withhold performance until that statement (conforming, where it is a statement
to the effect mentioned in  subsection (6) , with the requirements of that
subsection) is received.

15.8

A debtor who knows that an assignation document has been granted in respect of
a claim may request the assignor or the assignee to provide a written
statement as to whether (either or both)—

15.8.a

the assignation of the claim is subject to a condition,

15.8.b

any such condition has been satisfied.

15.9

If a written statement is requested under  subsection (8) , the debtor may
withhold performance until that statement is received.

15.10

Where a debtor who makes a request under subsection (1), (5) or (8) is a co-
debtor, the reference in subsection (4) or (as the case may be) (7) or (9) to
the debtor is to the debtor who made the request and does not include a
reference to any co-debtor of that debtor.

##### Accessory security rights

###### Accessory security rights

16

16.1

Subsections (2)  and  (3) —

16.1.a

apply, and apply only, in relation to any claim assigned in whole, but

16.1.b

are subject to any express provision to the contrary in the assignation
document.

16.2

Subject to anything which requires to be done under  subsection (3) , the
assignee acquires, by virtue of the transfer of the claim, any security (in so
far as the security is transferable) which relates to, and only to, the claim
transferred.

16.3

Where the performance of some act by the assignor is necessary for the
security to transfer to the assignee, the assignor must—

16.3.a

perform that act, and

16.3.b

do so as soon as reasonably practicable after the claim is transferred.

16.4

In  this section , “ security ” means both—

16.4.a

a right in security, and

16.4.b

the correlative right in respect of a cautionary obligation.

##### Abolition of certain rules of law

###### Abolition of certain rules of law

17

17.1

The following rules of law are abolished insofar as they apply to an
assignation of a claim to which  this Part  applies—

17.1.a

any rule whereby a mandate may operate as an assignation of a claim,

17.1.b

any rule whereby an assignation is rendered ineffective by an instruction to
the debtor by an assignee of a claim that the debtor perform to the assignor,

17.1.c

any rule whereby an assignee of a claim may sue in the name of an assignor,
and

17.1.d

any rule as to warrandice to be implied—

17.1.d.i

in assigning a claim, or

17.1.d.ii

in providing, in a contract or unilateral undertaking, for the assignation of
a claim.

17.2

But  subsection (1) (c)  does not affect the application of any enactment, or
any rule of law, as respects subrogation.

##### Saving

###### Saving as respects International Interests in Aircraft Equipment (Cape Town Convention) Regulations 2015

18

18.1

This Part  is without prejudice to the application, as respects the assignment
and acquisition of associated rights, of the International Interests in
Aircraft Equipment (Cape Town Convention) Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/912 ).

18.2

In  subsection (1) —

      “ assignment ” has the meaning given by regulation 5, as read with
regulation 35, of those regulations, and           “ associated rights ” has
the meaning given by regulation 5 of those regulations.

#### Register of Assignations

##### Register of Assignations

###### The Register of Assignations

19

19.1

There is to be a public register known as the Register of Assignations.

19.2

The register is to be under the management and control of the Keeper.

19.3

Subject to the provisions of this Act, the register is to be in such form as
the Keeper thinks fit.

19.4

The Keeper must take such steps as appear reasonable to the Keeper to protect
the register from—

19.4.a

interference,

19.4.b

unauthorised access, and

19.4.c

damage.

##### Structure and contents of the register

###### The parts of the register

20

The Keeper must make up and maintain, as parts of the register—

20.a

the assignations record, and

20.b

the archive record.

###### The assignations record

21

21.1

An entry in the assignations record is to comprise—

21.1.a

the assignor’s name and address,

21.1.b

where the assignor is an individual, the assignor’s date of birth,

21.1.c

any identifying number which the assignor has and which, by virtue of RoA
Rules, must be included in the entry,

21.1.d

the assignee’s name and address,

21.1.e

any identifying number which the assignee has and which, by virtue of RoA
Rules, must be included in the entry,

21.1.f

where the assignee is not an individual, an address (which may be an email
address) to which any request for information regarding the assignation may be
sent,

21.1.g

such description of the claim as is required, or permitted, for the purposes
of  this subsection  by RoA Rules,

21.1.h

a copy of the assignation document,

21.1.i

the registration number allocated under  section 25 (1) (b)  to the entry,

21.1.j

the date and time of registration of the assignation document,

21.1.k

any other information that is required under any other section of this Act,
and

21.1.l

any other information that is specified for the purposes of  this subsection
by RoA Rules.

21.2

The assignations record is the totality of all such entries.

###### The archive record

22

The archive record is the totality of—

22.a

all entries and copy documents transferred from the assignations record under
section 30 (1) (a)  or  (2) (c) ,

22.b

all copy documents included in the archive record under  section 30 (1) (c)
or  (2) (b) ,

22.c

all copies of such other documents as the Keeper considers it appropriate to
include in the archive record, and

22.d

any other information that is specified for the purposes of  this section  by
RoA Rules.

##### Registration process

###### Application for registration

23

23.1

An assignee may apply to the Keeper for registration of an assignation
document.

23.2

The Keeper must deal with applications in the order in which they are
received.

23.3

The Keeper must accept the application if—

23.3.a

it is submitted with a copy of the assignation document,

23.3.b

it contains all the information the Keeper requires in accordance with
section 21  to be able to make up an entry for the assignation document under
section 25 (1) ,

23.3.c

it conforms to such RoA Rules as relate to the application, and

23.3.d

either—

23.3.d.i

such fee as is payable for the registration is paid, or

23.3.d.ii

arrangements satisfactory to the Keeper are made for payment of that fee.

23.4

If the requirements of  subsection (3)  are not satisfied, the Keeper must
reject the application and inform the applicant accordingly.

###### Application for registration where claims assigned to different assignees

24

24.1

Where an assignation document assigns different claims to different assignees,
each assignee may apply to the Keeper for registration of the document only in
so far as it assigns a claim to that assignee (“ the applicant ”).

24.2

A reference in this Part, in relation to an assignation document in respect of
which such an application has been accepted by the Keeper, to—

24.2.a

the registration of the document is a reference to the registration of the
document in so far as it assigns a claim to the applicant,

24.2.b

the assignee under the document is a reference to the applicant,

24.2.c

a claim assigned by the document is a reference to a claim assigned by the
document to the applicant.

###### Registration

25

25.1

On accepting an application made under  section 23 , the Keeper must—

25.1.a

make up an entry for the assignation document (from the assignation document,
the information provided in the application and the circumstances of
registration),

25.1.b

allocate a registration number to the entry (based on the order in which
applications are dealt with), and

25.1.c

maintain the entry in the assignations record.

25.2

An assignation document is taken to be registered on the date and at the time
entered for it for the purpose of  section 21 (1) (j) .

###### Verification statement

26

26.1

After the registration of an assignation document under  section 25 , the
Keeper must issue a written statement verifying the registration to—

26.1.a

the assignor, and

26.1.b

the assignee,

but only if and to the extent that the application made under  section 23
contains an email address for those persons.

26.2

That statement must—

26.2.a

include—

26.2.a.i

the date and time of the registration, and

26.2.a.ii

the registration number allocated to the entry made up for the assignation
document, and

26.2.b

conform to such RoA Rules as relate to the statement.

26.3

Where a statement is issued under  subsection (1)  and is received by the
assignee but not the assignor, the assignor may request a copy of it from the
assignee.

26.4

Within 21 days beginning with the day a request is made under  subsection (3)
, the assignee must supply the assignor with the copy requested.

##### Effective registration

###### Effective registration of assignation document

27

27.1

The registration of an assignation document is ineffective if—

27.1.a

the entry made up for the assignation document in the assignations record—

27.1.a.i

does not include a copy of the assignation document, or

27.1.a.ii

is, at the time of registration, seriously misleading as a result of an
inaccuracy or inaccuracies in it, or

27.1.b

the assignation document is invalid.

27.2

But  subsection (1) (a) (ii)  is subject to  section 28 (1) (c)  and  (d) .

27.3

Where the registration of an assignation document is ineffective by virtue of
subsection (1) , it becomes effective if and when the entry is corrected.

###### Seriously misleading inaccuracies in the assignations record

28

28.1

In determining for the purpose of  section 27 (1) (a) (ii)  whether an entry
in the assignations record is seriously misleading as a result of an
inaccuracy or inaccuracies in it—

28.1.a

the entry is seriously misleading where—

28.1.a.i

any of  subsections (2)  to  (5)  apply, or

28.1.a.ii

despite  sub-paragraph (i)  not being satisfied, the inaccuracy or
inaccuracies are such that a reasonable person would be seriously misled by
the entry,

28.1.b

any inaccuracy is to be disregarded to the extent that it appears in the
assignation document but is not replicated elsewhere in the entry,

28.1.c

where the entry is seriously misleading in respect of only part of the
assigned claim, that is not to be taken to affect the entry in its application
to the rest of the claim,

28.1.d

where the entry is seriously misleading in respect of a co-assignor or co-
assignee but not in respect of both (or all) co-assignors or co-assignees,
that is not to be taken to affect the entry in its application to a co-
assignor or co-assignee in respect of whom the entry is not seriously
misleading.

28.2

This subsection  applies where—

28.2.a

the assignor is a person required by RoA Rules to be identified in the
assignations record by an identifying number, and

28.2.b

if a search of the record were to be carried out for that number, using the
search facility provided under  section 33 , it would not disclose the entry.

28.3

This subsection  applies where—

28.3.a

the assignor is not a person required by RoA Rules to be identified in the
assignations record by an identifying number, and

28.3.b

if a search of the record were to be carried out, using the search facility
provided under  section 33 , for—

28.3.b.i

the assignor’s proper name at the date the application for registration was
made, or

28.3.b.ii

the assignor’s proper name at that date together with the assignor’s month and
year of birth,

it would not disclose the entry.

28.4

This subsection  applies where the entry inaccurately reflects the assignee’s
proper name at the date the application for registration was made in such a
way that a reasonable person would be seriously misled.

28.5

This subsection  applies where—

28.5.a

there is a requirement, by virtue of  section 21 (1) (g) , for an entry in the
assignations record to specify the type of claim assigned, and

28.5.b

the entry—

28.5.b.i

describes the claim as being of a type that it is not, or

28.5.b.ii

fails to allocate a type to the claim.

28.6

In the application of  this section  to co-assignors and co-assignees—

28.6.a

subsections  (2)  and  (3)  apply in relation to a co-assignor as they apply
in relation to an assignor,

28.6.b

subsection  (4)  applies in relation to a co-assignee as it applies in
relation to an assignee.

28.7

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify  this section  to make
provision about what does, and what does not, make an entry seriously
misleading for the purpose of  section 27 (1) (a) (ii)  and how that is to be
determined.

28.8

In  this section , the “proper name” of an assignor or assignee means the
person’s name in the form determined in accordance with RoA Rules.

##### Corrections

###### Correction of the assignations record

29

29.1

Where a court determines in any proceedings that the assignations record is
inaccurate, the court—

29.1.a

must direct the Keeper to correct the record, and

29.1.b

may give the Keeper any further direction it considers necessary in connection
with the correction.

29.2

Where the Keeper becomes aware of a manifest inaccuracy in the assignations
record, other than as a result of a direction under  subsection (1) —

29.2.a

the Keeper must correct the record if what is needed to correct it is
manifest,

29.2.b

otherwise, the Keeper must note the inaccuracy on the entry in question.

29.3

There is an “inaccuracy” in the assignations record where—

29.3.a

the information included, by virtue of  section 21 (1) , in an entry in the
record is inaccurate or incomplete,

29.3.b

an entry in the record—

29.3.b.i

does not include a copy of the assignation document as required by  paragraph
(h)  of that section, or

29.3.b.ii

includes such a copy but the document copied is invalid, or

29.3.c

an entry has incorrectly been removed from the record.

29.4

A correction of the assignations record may involve—

29.4.a

the removal of an entry,

29.4.b

the removal of information included in an entry,

29.4.c

the amendment of, or an addition to, the information, or replacement of a copy
document, included in an entry,

29.4.d

the restoration of information, or of a copy document, to an entry,

29.4.e

the restoration of an entry (whether or not by transferring it from the
archive record to the assignations record).

29.5

A correction is taken to be made on the date and at the time entered for it in
the register in pursuance of a provision of  this Part .

###### Correction of the assignations record: procedure

30

30.1

Where the Keeper corrects the assignations record by removing an entry from
the assignations record, the Keeper must—

30.1.a

transfer the entry to the archive record,

30.1.b

note on the transferred entry—

30.1.b.i

the subsection of  section 29  by virtue of which the transfer is made, and

30.1.b.ii

the details of the correction (including the date and time of the removal),
and

30.1.c

include in the archive record a copy of any document which discloses, or
contributes to disclosing, the inaccuracy which is the subject of the
correction.

30.2

Where the Keeper corrects the record by restoring an entry, by restoring,
removing or amending information included in an entry or by restoring or
replacing a copy document, the Keeper must—

30.2.a

note on the entry that it has been corrected and the details of the correction
(including the date and time of the correction),

30.2.b

include in the archive record a copy of any document which discloses, or
contributes to disclosing, the inaccuracy which is the subject of the
correction, and

30.2.c

in the case of the replacement of the copy document, transfer the replaced
copy to the archive record.

30.3

Having corrected the record, the Keeper must notify the following persons (in
so far as it is reasonable and practicable to do so) that the correction has
been made—

30.3.a

every person specified for the purposes of  this subsection  by RoA Rules, and

30.3.b

any other person who appears to the Keeper to be affected by it materially.

30.4

A failure to comply with  subsection (1) (c) ,  (2) (b)  or  (3)  does not
affect the validity of the correction of the record.

###### Proceedings involving the accuracy of the assignations record

31

The Keeper is entitled to appear and be heard in any civil proceedings,
whether before a court or tribunal, in which—

31.a

the accuracy of the assignations record, or

31.b

what is needed to correct an inaccuracy in the record,

is put in question.

###### Power to make provision about applications for corrections

32

32.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify  this Part  to make provision
for or about applications to the Keeper for the correction of an entry in the
assignations record.

32.2

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may, in particular—

32.2.a

make provision about—

32.2.a.i

the persons, or descriptions of persons, who are entitled to make an
application,

32.2.a.ii

the circumstances in which an application is to be accepted (which may include
consideration of whether there has been payment of a fee), and

32.2.a.iii

the steps to be taken where an application is accepted,

32.2.b

modify the Keeper’s duty to act on becoming aware of a manifest inaccuracy in
the assignations record to take account of the application process, and

32.2.c

allow RoA Rules to make provision about the procedure in relation to
applications for corrections.

##### Searches and extracts

###### Searching the assignations record

33

33.1

The Keeper must provide a facility by which the assignations record may be
searched.

33.2

That search facility must allow the assignations record to be searched by
reference to, and only by reference to—

33.2.a

any of the following information in the entries contained in that record—

33.2.a.i

the names of assignors, which must be capable of being searched with and
without the months and years of birth of assignors who are individuals,

33.2.a.ii

the identifying numbers of assignors required by RoA Rules to be identified in
the assignations record by such a number,

33.2.b

registration numbers allocated, under  section 25 (1) (b) , to entries in that
record, or

33.2.c

any other factor, or characteristic, specified for the purposes of  this
paragraph  by RoA Rules.

33.3

Subject to any restrictions imposed under RoA Rules, a person may search the
assignations record using the search facility provided under  subsection (1)
provided that either—

33.3.a

such fee as is payable for the search is paid, or

33.3.b

arrangements satisfactory to the Keeper are made for payment of that fee.

33.4

But no fee is payable for a search of the assignations record which is carried
out on behalf of an individual by a not-for-profit money adviser (being an
adviser who does not charge individuals for the adviser’s services).

33.5

The Scottish Ministers may, by regulations, make further provision about the
meaning of “ not-for-profit money adviser ” for the purposes of subsection
(4).

###### Admissibility and evidential status of search results

34

34.1

A copy of a search result (in printed or electronic form) which relates to a
search carried out by means of a search facility provided by the Keeper is
admissible in evidence.

34.2

In the absence of evidence to the contrary—

34.2.a

where such a search result purports to show an entry in the assignations
record, it is sufficient proof of—

34.2.a.i

the registration of the assignation document to which the result relates,

34.2.a.ii

where applicable, a correction of the entry in the assignations record to
which the result relates, and

34.2.a.iii

the date and time of such registration or, as the case may be, correction, and

34.2.b

where such a search result purports not to show an entry in the assignations
record, it is sufficient proof of an entry in the assignations record not
being disclosed at the date and time of such search by means of the search
carried out.

###### Extracts and their evidential status

35

35.1

A person may apply to the Keeper for an extract of an entry in the register.

35.2

The Keeper must issue the extract if—

35.2.a

such fee as is payable for issuing it is paid, or

35.2.b

arrangements satisfactory to the Keeper are made for payment of that fee.

35.3

But if, on application under subsection (1), the applicant requests an extract
as at a specific date and time, the Keeper need comply with the request only
to the extent that it is reasonably practicable to do so.

35.4

The Keeper may validate the extract as the Keeper considers appropriate.

35.5

The Keeper may issue the extract as an electronic document unless the
applicant requests that it be issued as a traditional document.

35.6

The extract is to be accepted for all purposes as sufficient evidence of the
contents of the entry as at—

35.6.a

in the case of an extract requested as mentioned in subsection (3), the date
and time to which the extract relates (being a date and time specified in the
extract), and

35.6.b

in any other case, the date on which and the time at which the extract is
issued (being a date and time specified in the extract).

##### Requests for information

###### Assignee’s duty to respond to request for information

36

36.1

An entitled person may ask the person identified in an entry in the
assignations record as the assignee (the “registered assignee”) to provide the
entitled person with a written statement as to whether—

36.1.a

a claim specified by the entitled person is assigned by the assignation
document,

36.1.b

the registered assignee has granted a further assignation document in respect
of the claim, or

36.1.c

a condition specified by the entitled person and to which the assignation is
subject has been satisfied.

36.2

The following are entitled persons for the purposes of  this section —

36.2.a

in relation to a request under  subsection (1) , a person who (depending on
who holds the claim) may have a right to execute diligence against the claim,
or

36.2.b

a person not mentioned in  paragraph (a)  but who has the consent of the
person identified in the entry as the assignor to make a request under
subsection (1) .

36.3

For the purposes of  subsection (2) (a) , a person who may have a right to
execute diligence against the claim includes a person authorised to execute a
charge for payment who (depending on who holds the claim) may have a right to
execute diligence against the claim if and when the days of charge expire
without payment.

36.4

The registered assignee must, within 21 days beginning with the day of
receiving a request under  subsection (1) , comply with it unless—

36.4.a

it is manifest that the registration is ineffective in relation to the
assignation of the claim to which the request relates,

36.4.b

in the case of a request made under  subsection (1) (a) , it is manifest from
the entry for the assignation that the claim specified is not assigned by the
assignation document,

36.4.c

both—

36.4.c.i

the registered assignee has, within the period of 3 months ending with the day
of receipt of the request, complied with a request under the same paragraph of
subsection (1)  from the same person and in relation to the same claim, and

36.4.c.ii

the information contained in the statement issued in relation to the earlier
request remains correct.

36.5

The registered assignee may recover from the entitled person any costs
reasonably incurred in complying with the request.

36.6

On the application of the registered assignee, the court may by order—

36.6.a

exempt the registered assignee from complying with a request under  subsection
(1)  or such part of the request as it specifies in the order, or

36.6.b

extend the period within which the registered assignee must comply with the
request by such number of days as it specifies in the order,

if satisfied that in all the circumstances it would be reasonable to do so.

36.7

If, on the application of the entitled person, the court is satisfied that the
registered assignee has, without reasonable excuse, failed to comply with
subsection (4) , it may by order require the registered assignee to comply
with the request within 14 days or such other period (which may be longer or
shorter than 14 days) as the court considers appropriate.

36.8

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify  this section  so as to
specify further persons, or descriptions of persons, who are entitled persons
for the purposes of  this section .

##### Entitlement to compensation

###### Liability of Keeper

37

37.1

A person is entitled to be compensated by the Keeper for loss suffered in
consequence of—

37.1.a

an inaccuracy in the assignations record to the extent that it is attributable
to the making up, maintenance or operation of the register (including an
attempted correction of it),

37.1.b

the issue, under  section 26 (1) , of a written statement which is incorrect,

37.1.c

the service, under  section 30 (3) , of a notification which is incorrect,

37.1.d

a search result which—

37.1.d.i

relates to a search of the assignations record carried out by means of a
search facility provided by the Keeper,

37.1.d.ii

ought (as a result of the search terms used) to reflect accurately the
contents of the assignations record at the time the search was made, and

37.1.d.iii

does not accurately reflect those contents,

37.1.e

the issue, under  section 35 , of an extract which is not a true extract,

37.1.f

an application being accepted or rejected in error,

37.1.g

an attempt to make an application, which the Keeper would otherwise have
accepted, failing as a result of an error in the system the Keeper has for
accepting applications, or

37.1.h

applications being dealt with otherwise than in the order in which they are
received.

37.2

But the Keeper has no liability under  subsection (1) —

37.2.a

in so far as the person’s loss could have been avoided had the person taken
measures which it would have been reasonable for the person to take,

37.2.b

in so far as the person’s loss was not reasonably foreseeable, or

37.2.c

for non-patrimonial loss.

37.3

For the avoidance of doubt, an inaccuracy in information included in an entry
in the assignations record when that entry is made up under  section 25 (1)
(a)  or corrected under  section 29  does not fall within  subsection (1) (a)
to the extent that the Keeper—

37.3.a

has been misled into making the inaccuracy, and

37.3.b

reasonably believed the information to be accurate.

37.4

For the purposes of  subsection (3) , the circumstances where the Keeper is
entitled to reasonably believe information to be accurate include those where
it is provided—

37.4.a

in connection with an application to which the entry relates, or

37.4.b

by the court.

###### Liability of certain other persons

38

38.1

A person (“ P ”) is entitled to be compensated in the following circumstances—

38.1.a

where P suffers loss in consequence of an inaccuracy in an entry in the
assignations record then, to the extent that it is not attributable to the
Keeper, P is entitled to be compensated for that loss by—

38.1.a.i

the person who made the application for registration which gave rise to the
inaccurate entry if that person failed to take reasonable care in making it,
or

38.1.a.ii

where the inaccurate entry arises from the attempted correction of an apparent
inaccuracy, the person who notified the Keeper of the apparent inaccuracy if
that person failed to take reasonable care in doing so,

38.1.b

where P suffers loss in consequence of an inaccuracy in information supplied
in response to a request under  section 36 (1) , P is entitled to be
compensated for that loss by the person who supplied the information if that
person failed to take reasonable care in supplying it, or

38.1.c

where P suffers loss in consequence of a failure, without reasonable excuse,
to comply with a request in accordance with  section 36 (4) , P is entitled to
be compensated for that loss by the person whose failure it was.

38.2

But a person has no liability under  subsection (1) —

38.2.a

in so far as P’s loss could have been avoided had P taken measures which it
would have been reasonable for P to take,

38.2.b

in so far as P’s loss was not reasonably foreseeable, or

38.2.c

for non-patrimonial loss.

##### Rules

###### Rules

39

39.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make rules (“RoA Rules”)—

39.1.a

about the making up and keeping of the register,

39.1.b

about the procedure in relation to applications for registration under
section 23 (1) ,

39.1.c

about searches in the register and the results of those searches,

39.1.d

about the required form and content of any document or information to be used
in relation to the register,

39.1.e

requiring there to be entered in the assignations record or the archive record
such information as is specified in the rules, or

39.1.f

regarding other matters in relation to registration under  this Part , being
matters for which the Scottish Ministers consider it necessary or expedient to
provide in order to give full effect to the purposes of  this Part .

39.2

RoA Rules under  subsection (1)  may, in particular, include provision—

39.2.a

about the identification, in any application and in the register, of any
person or claim, including—

39.2.a.i

how the proper form of a person’s name is to be determined, and

39.2.a.ii

where the person has an identifying number (whether of numerals or of letters
and numerals) allocated to the person, whether that number must be used in
identifying the person,

39.2.b

about the nature of the address of the assignor or the assignee to be included
in an entry in the register,

39.2.c

about the degree of precision with which time is to be recorded in the
register,

39.2.d

about information which, though contained in an assignation document, need not
be included in a copy of that document submitted with an application under
section 23 (1) ,

39.2.e

about whether a signature contained in an assignation document need be
included in a copy of that document so submitted,

39.2.f

about information which, though contained in the register, is not to be—

39.2.f.i

available to persons searching it, or

39.2.f.ii

included in any extract issued under  section 35 ,

39.2.g

about when the register is open for—

39.2.g.i

registration,

39.2.g.ii

searches.

39.3

Before laying a draft of a Scottish statutory instrument containing
regulations under  subsection (1)  before the Scottish Parliament, the
Scottish Ministers must consult the Keeper.

#### Miscellaneous and interpretation of 

##### Miscellaneous

###### Repeal of Transmission of Moveable Property (Scotland) Act 1862

40

The Transmission of Moveable Property (Scotland) Act 1862 is repealed.

##### Interpretation of 

###### Interpretation of 

41

41.1

In  this Part  (except where the context requires otherwise)—

      “ the archive record ” is to be construed in accordance with  section 22
,           “ assignation ” means assignation of a claim,           “
assignation document ” has the meaning given by  section 1 (1) ,           “
the assignations record ” is to be construed in accordance with  section 21
(2) ,           “ assignee ” means the person to whom a claim is assigned,
“ assignor ” means the person by whom a claim is assigned,           “ claim
”—         means a right to the performance of an obligation (including an
obligation not to do something), but           does not include a non-monetary
right relating to land or a negotiable instrument,                 “
correction ”, in relation to the assignations record, is to be construed in
accordance with  section 29 (4) ,           “ debtor ” means the person
against whom a claim may be enforced,           “ holder ”, in relation to a
claim, means the person who has the right to performance of an obligation
under the claim,           “ inaccuracy ”, in relation to the assignations
record, is to be construed in accordance with  section 29 (3) ,           “
the register ” means the Register of Assignations,           “ right in
security ”—         means a right in security over property (including a
floating charge), but           does not include a right to execute diligence,
“ RoA Rules ” has the meaning given by  section 39 (1) .

41.2

Where two or more persons are co-assignors or co-assignees in relation to a
claim, any reference in this Act to the assignor or assignee (as the case may
be) is, unless the context requires otherwise, a reference to all of those
persons.

41.3

A reference (however expressed) in  this Part  to—

41.3.a

an assignation document having been granted in respect of a claim is to be
construed as a reference to the document having been executed or
authenticated,

41.3.b

an assignation document being registered is to be construed as a reference to
the Keeper’s carrying out, in respect of the document, the duties imposed on
the Keeper by  section 25 (1) (a)  and  (b) .

### Security over Moveable Property

#### Pledge

##### Pledge, secured obligation and encumbered property

###### Pledge

42

42.1

A pledge is created in accordance with  this section .

42.2

Where a pledge is to be created over moveable property which is corporeal
only, the pledge is created—

42.2.a

by delivery of the property to the secured creditor, provided that the
property is the provider’s at the time of delivery,

42.2.b

in a case where the property is not the provider’s at the time of such
delivery, on the property becoming the provider’s subsequent to such delivery,
or

42.2.c

by registration in accordance with  section 48  or  49 .

42.3

Where a pledge is to be created over moveable property which is—

42.3.a

incorporeal only, or

42.3.b

both corporeal and incorporeal,

the pledge is created by registration in accordance with  section 48  or  49 .

42.4

A pledge created by registration in accordance with  section 48  or  49  is to
be known as a “statutory pledge”.

42.5

Nothing in  this section  affects any rule of law which existed prior to the
commencement of this section whereby a pledge may be created over a negotiable
instrument, and nothing in  this Part  applies in relation to any pledge
created in accordance with such a rule.

###### Secured obligation and encumbered property

43

43.1

The obligation secured by a pledge (“the secured obligation”)—

43.1.a

may be any obligation owed, or which will or may become owed, to or by any
person, and

43.1.b

includes ancillary obligations owed (for example, to pay interest, damages and
the reasonable expense of extra-judicial recovery of interest or damages).

43.2

The property over which a pledge is created and in respect of which the pledge
subsists (“the encumbered property”) includes, except in so far as the
provider and the secured creditor agree otherwise, the natural fruits of the
property but not its incorporeal fruits.

43.3

At the time the pledge is created, the property which is to be the encumbered
property must be transferable (whether or not its transferability is
restricted in some way).

##### Possessory pledge

###### Delivery

44

44.1

For the purposes of  section 42 (2) (a)  and  (b) , delivery must be carried
out—

44.1.a

by physically handing over, or giving control of, the property to the relevant
person,

44.1.b

by giving control of the premises in which the property is located to the
relevant person,

44.1.c

by instructing another person who has direct possession or custody of the
property to hold the property on behalf of the relevant person, or

44.1.d

by delivering a bill of lading representing the property to the relevant
person (and where that bill is to the order of a particular person, by
procuring the endorsement of the bill in favour of the secured creditor).

44.2

Property which, at the time agreement is reached on the creation of the
pledge, is already in the direct possession or custody of the relevant person
is deemed to have been delivered to the secured creditor for the purposes of
section 42 (2) (a)  or, as the case may be,  (b) .

44.3

In  this section , “ relevant person ” means—

44.3.a

the secured creditor, or

44.3.b

a person authorised to accept delivery on behalf of the secured creditor or,
where  subsection (2)  applies, authorised to hold the property on behalf of
the secured creditor.

44.4

This section  is without prejudice to section 2 of the Factors Act 1889.

##### Statutory pledge

###### Constitutive document

45

45.1

A statutory pledge requires a constitutive document.

45.2

The constitutive document must—

45.2.a

be executed or authenticated by the provider,

45.2.b

identify the property which is to be the encumbered property, and

45.2.c

identify the obligation which is to be the secured obligation.

45.3

If the encumbered property is to consist of more than one item, the
constitutive document must—

45.3.a

identify each item separately, or

45.3.b

identify the items in terms of their constituting an identifiable class.

45.4

The property identified (whether separately or as a class) as the property
which is to be the encumbered property may be either property of, or property
to be acquired by, the provider.

45.5

For the purposes of subsections (2) and (3), the ways in which the encumbered
property or the secured obligation can be identified in the constitutive
document include by making reference in the constitutive document to another
document, the terms of which are not reproduced.

###### Competence of individual acting as provider of a statutory pledge

46

46.1

It is not competent for an individual to be the provider of a statutory pledge
unless—

46.1.a

the individual is acting in the course of—

46.1.a.i

the individual’s business,

46.1.a.ii

the activities of a charity of which the individual is a trustee, or

46.1.a.iii

the activities of an unincorporated association (other than a charity) of
which the individual is a member, and

46.1.b

the encumbered property is a permitted asset, or consists only of permitted
assets.

46.2

For the purpose of subsection (1)(b), an asset is a “permitted asset” if—

46.2.a

it is (as the case may be)—

46.2.a.i

used, or to be used, wholly or mainly for the purposes of the individual’s
business,

46.2.a.ii

an asset of the charity, or

46.2.a.iii

owned by the individual on behalf of, or jointly with the other members of,
the association, and

46.2.b

in the case of corporeal property, it has a monetary value exceeding £3,000
immediately before the document under which it will become encumbered property
is granted.

46.3

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations—

46.3.a

modify subsection (2)(b) so as to modify the amount for the time being
specified there,

46.3.b

modify this section so as to specify types of property which are or are not
permitted assets.

46.4

For the purposes of this section—

46.4.a

“ charity ” means—

46.4.a.i

a charity within the meaning of section 106 of the Charities and Trustee
Investment (Scotland) Act 2005, or

46.4.a.ii

an organisation managed or controlled wholly or mainly outwith Scotland and
which is registered in a register equivalent to the Scottish Charity Register
(kept under section 3 of that Act) for the purposes of the country in which it
operates,

46.4.b

a trustee of a charity is one of the persons having the general control and
management of the administration of the charity.

###### Competence of creating statutory pledge over certain kinds of property

47

47.1

It is not competent to create a statutory pledge over corporeal property which
is—

47.1.a

an aircraft in respect of which it is competent to register a mortgage in the
register of aircraft mortgages kept by the Civil Aviation Authority,

47.1.b

an aircraft object (as defined in regulation 5 of the International Interests
in Aircraft Equipment (Cape Town Convention) Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/912
)), or

47.1.c

a ship (or a share in a ship) in respect of which it is competent to register
a mortgage in the register of British ships maintained for the United Kingdom
under section 8 of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995.

47.2

It is not competent to create a statutory pledge over incorporeal property
unless that property is—

47.2.a

intellectual property, or

47.2.b

an application for, or licence over, intellectual property.

47.3

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify  this section  so as to
specify further kinds of incorporeal property over which it is competent to
create a statutory pledge.

###### Creation of statutory pledge by registration: general

48

48.1

A statutory pledge is created over property which is identified in a
constitutive document in accordance with  section 45  on the requirements
mentioned in  subsection (2)  all being met.

48.2

Those requirements are that—

48.2.a

the property is the provider’s,

48.2.b

the statutory pledge is registered, and

48.2.c

the property is identifiable as property to which the constitutive document
relates.

48.3

Subsection  (2) (b)  is subject to  section 91  (effective registration of
statutory pledge) and, accordingly, the requirement of that subsection—

48.3.a

is not met if the registration of the constitutive document is ineffective in
accordance with  section 91 (1) , and

48.3.b

is met if and when that registration becomes effective in accordance with
section 91 (3) .

48.4

This section  is subject to  section 50  (creation of statutory pledge:
insolvency).

###### Creation of statutory pledge over added property

49

49.1

Where a statutory pledge is amended so as to add property to the encumbered
property by means of an amendment document under  section 58 , a statutory
pledge is created over the added property on the requirements mentioned in
subsection (2)  all being met.

49.2

Those requirements are that—

49.2.a

the added property is the provider’s,

49.2.b

the amendment is registered, and

49.2.c

the added property is identifiable as property to which the amendment document
relates.

49.3

Subsection  (2) (b)  is subject to  section 92  (effective registration of
amendment to statutory pledge) and, accordingly, the requirement of that
subsection—

49.3.a

is not met if the registration of the amendment document is ineffective in
accordance with  section 92 (1) , and

49.3.b

is met if and when that registration becomes effective in accordance with
section 92 (3) .

49.4

This section  is subject to  section 50  (creation of statutory pledge:
insolvency).

###### Creation of statutory pledge: insolvency

50

50.1

This section  applies where—

50.1.a

the property identified (whether separately or as a class) as the property
which is to be the encumbered property under a statutory pledge is or includes
property to be acquired by the provider, and

50.1.b

after the pledge is granted, the provider becomes insolvent.

50.2

The statutory pledge is not created over any property which, though identified
by the constitutive document or by an amendment document as property to be
encumbered, is acquired by the provider after becoming insolvent.

50.3

For the purposes of  subsection (2) —

50.3.a

a provider who is an individual, or the estate of which may be sequestrated by
virtue of section 6 of the Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 2016, becomes insolvent
when—

50.3.a.i

the provider’s estate is sequestrated,

50.3.a.ii

the provider grants a trust deed for creditors or makes a composition or
arrangement with creditors,

50.3.a.iii

the provider is adjudged bankrupt,

50.3.a.iv

a voluntary arrangement proposed by the provider is approved,

50.3.a.v

the provider’s application for a debt payment programme is approved under
section 2 of the Debt Arrangement and Attachment (Scotland) Act 2002, or

50.3.a.vi

the provider becomes subject to any other order or arrangement analogous to
any of those mentioned in sub-paragraphs  (i)  to  (v)  anywhere in the world,
and

50.3.b

a provider other than is mentioned in  paragraph (a)  becomes insolvent when—

50.3.b.i

a decision approving a voluntary arrangement entered into by the provider has
effect under section 4A of the Insolvency Act 1986 (“ the 1986 Act ”),

50.3.b.ii

the provider is wound up under Part 4 or 5 of the 1986 Act or under section
367 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000,

50.3.b.iii

an administrative receiver, as defined in section 251 of the 1986 Act, is
appointed over all or part (being a part to which the constitutive document or
any amendment document relates) of the property of the provider,

50.3.b.iv

the provider enters administration (“enters administration” being construed in
accordance with paragraph 1(2) of schedule B1 of the 1986 Act),

50.3.b.v

an order under section 901F of the Companies Act 2006 sanctioning a compromise
or arrangement entered into by the provider comes into effect over all or part
of the property of the provider, or

50.3.b.vi

the provider becomes subject to any other order, appointment or arrangement
analogous to any of those mentioned in sub-paragraphs (i) to (v) anywhere in
the world.

50.4

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify  subsection (3) .

##### Property encumbered by statutory pledge: effect of transfer by provider

###### Property encumbered by statutory pledge: transfer by provider

51

51.1

If the provider of a statutory pledge transfers the encumbered property (or
any part of it) to a third party, the transferred property remains encumbered
by the pledge unless—

51.1.a

the consent mentioned in  subsection (2)  is obtained,

51.1.b

the third party acquires the property unencumbered under any of sections  53
to  55 , or

51.1.c

the pledge is otherwise extinguished by the transfer, in whole or in relation
to the transferred property, under section  52 ,  93  or  108 .

51.2

The consent referred to in  subsection (1) (a) —

51.2.a

is the prior written consent of the secured creditor—

51.2.a.i

to the particular transfer, and

51.2.a.ii

to the property in question being transferred unencumbered by the pledge, and

51.2.b

does not include consent granted more than 14 days before the day of the
particular transfer.

51.3

Whether to grant or withhold the consent mentioned in  subsection (2)  must
remain at the discretion of the secured creditor (that is, the secured
creditor may not agree in advance how that discretion will be exercised).

51.4

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations—

51.4.a

modify  subsection (2)  (including by specifying further descriptions of
consent by reference to which  subsection (1)  is to apply),

51.4.b

modify  this section  so as to specify further matters relevant to the
granting or withholding of consent.

###### Extinction of statutory pledge where dealings inconsistent with a fixed security

52

If a secured creditor acquiesces, expressly or impliedly, in a provider’s
transfer of encumbered property (or any part of it) to a third party, other
than by means of granting the consent mentioned in  section 51 (2) , the
statutory pledge under which the property (or part) was encumbered is
extinguished.

###### Acquisition in good faith from seller acting in ordinary course of business

53

53.1

A purchaser of corporeal property which is encumbered property under a
statutory pledge acquires it unencumbered by the statutory pledge, despite the
consent mentioned in  section 51 (2)  not having been obtained, if—

53.1.a

the person from whom the property is acquired is acting in the ordinary course
of that person’s business, and

53.1.b

at the time of acquisition, the purchaser is in good faith.

53.2

For the purposes of  subsection (1) (b) , a purchaser is not to be taken to be
other than in good faith by reason only of the statutory pledge having been
registered.

###### Acquisition in good faith for personal, domestic or household purposes

54

54.1

An individual who acquires corporeal property which is encumbered property
under a statutory pledge acquires it unencumbered by the statutory pledge,
despite the consent mentioned in  section 51 (2)  not having been obtained,
if—

54.1.a

the property is wholly or mainly acquired for personal, domestic or household
purposes,

54.1.b

the acquirer gives value for the property acquired, and

54.1.c

at the time of acquisition, the acquirer is in good faith.

54.2

For the purposes of  subsection (1) (c) , an acquirer is not to be taken to be
other than in good faith by reason only of the statutory pledge having been
registered.

54.3

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify  subsection (1)  so as to—

54.3.a

limit its application to cases where the value of all that is acquired does
not, at the time of acquisition, exceed a specified amount, and

54.3.b

modify the amount for the time being specified there by virtue of  paragraph
(a) .

###### Acquisition in good faith of motor vehicles

55

55.1

Subsections (2)  to  (4)  apply where—

55.1.a

there is a sale agreement (including a conditional sale agreement) or a hire-
purchase agreement in respect of a motor vehicle,

55.1.b

the motor vehicle is encumbered property under a statutory pledge,

55.1.c

at the time of entering into the agreement, the purchaser or hirer is not a
person carrying on a business described in section 29(2) of the Hire-Purchase
Act 1964, and

55.1.d

the purchaser or hirer is, at that time, in good faith.

55.2

On the motor vehicle being transferred to the purchaser or hirer in accordance
with the agreement, that person acquires it unencumbered by the statutory
pledge despite the consent mentioned in  section 51 (2)  not having been
obtained.

55.3

And the statutory pledge is not to be enforced against the motor vehicle
before the motor vehicle is transferred to the purchaser or hirer in
accordance with the agreement.

55.4

But if the transferor is, at the time the agreement is entered into, a person
carrying on a business described in section 29(2) of the Hire-Purchase Act
1964, the secured creditor is entitled to receive from the transferor the
lesser of—

55.4.a

the amount outstanding in respect of the secured obligation, and

55.4.b

the amount received, or to be received, by the transferor in respect of the
acquisition.

55.5

Where the secured creditor receives a sum under  subsection (4) —

55.5.a

the provider’s liability to the secured creditor under the secured obligation
is reduced by the same amount, but

55.5.b

the transferor has a right of relief against the provider in respect of the
sum.

55.6

For the purposes of  subsection (1) (d) , a purchaser or hirer is not to be
taken to be other than in good faith by reason only of the statutory pledge
having been registered.

55.7

In  this section , “ conditional sale agreement ”, “ hire-purchase agreement ”
and “ motor vehicle ” have the meanings given by section 29(1) of the Hire-
Purchase Act 1964.

55.8

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations specify classes of motor vehicles to
which  subsections (1)  to  (7)  do not apply.

55.9

Regulations under  subsection (8)  may modify sections  53  and  54  to
provide that either or both of those sections do not apply to some or all of
the classes of motor vehicle specified under  subsection (8) .

##### Rights relating to matrimonial or family home where relevant to a statutory pledge

###### Occupancy and other rights in family home following grant of statutory pledge

56

56.1

The Matrimonial Homes (Family Protection) (Scotland) Act 1981 (“ the 1981 Act
”) and the Civil Partnership Act 2004 (“ the 2004 Act ”) are amended in
accordance with  this section .

56.2

After section 2(8) of the 1981 Act and section 102(8) of the 2004 Act, insert—

56.2.8A

In subsection (1)(a), “ secured loan ” includes secured obligation (construed
in accordance with  section 43 (1)  of the Moveable Transactions (Scotland)
Act 2023).

.

56.3

In section 3 of the 1981 Act and section 103 of the 2004 Act, at the end of
subsection (2) insert  “or the rights of any secured creditor in relation to
the non-performance of a secured obligation.” .

56.4

After section 3(8) of the 1981 Act, insert—

56.4.9

In subsection (2)—

      “ secured creditor ” has the meaning given by  section 113 (1)  of the
Moveable Transactions (Scotland) Act 2023, and           “ secured obligation
” is to be construed in accordance with  section 43 (1)  of the Moveable
Transactions (Scotland) Act 2023.

.

56.5

After section 103(9) of the 2004 Act, insert—

56.5.10

In subsection (2)—

      “ secured creditor ” has the meaning given by  section 113 (1)  of the
Moveable Transactions (Scotland) Act 2023, and           “ secured obligation
” is to be construed in accordance with  section 43 (1)  of the Moveable
Transactions (Scotland) Act 2023.

.

56.6

In section 6(2) of the 1981 Act and section 106(2) of the 2004 Act, in the
definition of “dealing”, after the words “heritable security” insert  “, the
grant of a statutory pledge” .

56.7

In section 8 of the 1981 Act, after subsection (2B) insert—

56.7.2C

For the purposes of subsection (2A) above, the time of granting a security, in
the case of a statutory pledge, is—

56.7.2C.a

the date of delivery of the constitutive document of the statutory pledge, or

56.7.2C.b

where the statutory pledge is granted in an amendment document, the date of
delivery of that document.

.

56.8

In section 108 of the 2004 Act, after subsection (4) insert—

56.8.5

For the purposes of subsection (3), the time of granting a security, in the
case of a statutory pledge, is—

56.8.5.a

the date of delivery of the constitutive document of the statutory pledge, or

56.8.5.b

where the statutory pledge is granted in an amendment document, the date of
delivery of that document.

.

56.9

The title of section 8 of the 1981 Act and section 108 of the 2004 Act becomes
“ Interests of creditors ” .

##### Assignation, amendment, restriction or extinction of statutory pledge

###### Assignation of statutory pledge

57

57.1

Except in so far as the provider and the secured creditor agree otherwise, a
statutory pledge may be assigned.

57.2

A statutory pledge is assigned only by the secured creditor executing or
authenticating a document assigning the pledge.

57.3

Subject to the provisions of that document, the assignation conveys to the
assignee entitlement to the benefit of any notice served, or enforcement
procedure commenced, by the assignor in respect of the statutory pledge before
the assignation (to the effect that the assignee may proceed as if the
assignee served that notice or commenced those procedures).

###### Amendment of statutory pledge

58

58.1

Subject to  section 59 (a) , a statutory pledge may be amended only by means
of a document (an “amendment document”) executed or authenticated by the
secured creditor and the provider.

58.2

But an amendment document which relates only to the addition of property to
the encumbered property need not be executed or authenticated by the secured
creditor.

58.3

An amendment document which relates to the addition of property to the
encumbered property must identify the property to be added.

58.4

If the property to be added consists of more than one item, the amendment
document must—

58.4.a

identify each item separately, or

58.4.b

identify the items in terms of their constituting an identifiable class.

58.5

The property identified (whether separately or as a class) as the property
which is to be the added property may be either property of, or property to be
acquired by, the provider.

58.6

Where an amendment increases the extent of the statutory pledge—

58.6.a

the statutory pledge is amended to give effect to the increase only when the
amendment is registered effectively (see section 92), and

58.6.b

subject to any agreement to the contrary by the parties to the amendment
document, any other amendments to the statutory pledge made by the amendment
document also take effect at the time mentioned in paragraph (a).

58.7

For the purposes of subsection (6), an amendment increases the extent of the
statutory pledge where—

58.7.a

the amendment adds property to the encumbered property, or

58.7.b

both—

58.7.b.i

the extent of the secured obligation is determinable from the terms alone of
the entry for it in the statutory pledges record, and

58.7.b.ii

the amendment increases that extent.

58.8

For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4), the ways in which property added
can be identified in the amendment document include by making reference in the
amendment document to another document, the terms of which are not reproduced.

###### Restriction or discharge of statutory pledge

59

A statutory pledge may be—

59.a

restricted to only part of the encumbered property, or

59.b

discharged,

by means of a written statement by the secured creditor.

##### Ranking of pledges etc.

###### Ranking

60

60.1

Subject to the provisions of  this section  and of any other enactment, the
priority in ranking of—

60.1.a

any two pledges, or

60.1.b

a pledge and a right in security other than a pledge,

is determined according to their creation, the earlier created having priority
over the later.

60.2

Where a provider grants two or more statutory pledges over property which is
not the property of the provider at the time the pledges are granted, the
priority in ranking of the pledges is determined according to the dates on
which and times at which they are registered effectively (see sections  91
and  92 ), the earlier having priority over the later.

60.3

Where property is subject both to a pledge and to a security arising by
operation of law, the security arising by operation of law has priority over
the pledge.

60.4

The priority in ranking of a pledge is the same irrespective of whether the
secured obligation is an obligation owed or is an obligation which will or may
become owed.

60.5

As between any two pledges, or as between a pledge and a right in security
other than a pledge, the secured creditors or (as the case may be) the secured
creditor and the holder of that other right may set out in a written
agreement—

60.5.a

that there is no priority in ranking, or

60.5.b

that any priority in ranking is to be determined in a way other than would be
the case in the absence of such an agreement.

60.6

An agreement under  subsection (5) —

60.6.a

has effect only as between the parties to it and their successors, and

60.6.b

is not registrable in the register.

###### Amendment of Companies Act 1985 and Insolvency Act 1986

61

Both in section 486(1) of the Companies Act 1985 and in section 70(1) of the
Insolvency Act 1986, in the definition of “fixed security”—

61.a

the words from “a heritable security” to “1970” become paragraph (a) of the
definition, and

61.b

after that paragraph insert

; or

61.b.b

a statutory pledge within the meaning given by  section 113 (1)  of the
Moveable Transactions (Scotland) Act 2023;

.

###### Effect of diligence on pledge

62

62.1

Subsection (2)  applies where diligence is executed in respect of property
which is, or any part of which is, encumbered by a pledge.

62.2

The pledge has, in respect of the property or (as the case may be) the part,
priority in ranking over the diligence except in relation to any part of the
secured obligation which consists of a sum—

62.2.a

advanced after execution of the diligence, and

62.2.b

not required to be advanced by—

62.2.b.i

a contractual agreement entered into before execution of the diligence, or

62.2.b.ii

an undertaking entered into before execution of the diligence.

62.3

Subsection (4)  applies where a pledge is created over property in respect of
which, or in respect of part of which, diligence has been executed.

62.4

The diligence has, in respect of the property or (as the case may be) the
part, priority in ranking over the pledge.

##### Enforcement of pledge

###### The expression “pledge” in 

63

In  sections 64  to  77 , the expression “ pledge ” does not include a pledge
as defined in section 189(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (that is to say,
does not include a pawnee’s rights over an article taken in pawn).

###### Enforcement of pledge: general

64

64.1

A pledge is enforceable only in accordance with the provisions of  this Part .

64.2

A pledge may be enforced—

64.2.a

in such circumstances as are agreed between the provider and the secured
creditor, or

64.2.b

subject to any such agreement, where there has been a failure to perform the
secured obligation.

64.3

Any agreement under  subsection (2) (a)  must be in writing.

64.4

In enforcing a pledge, a secured creditor must conform to reasonable standards
of commercial practice.

64.5

Subsection (2)  is subject to sections  55 (3) ,  65  and  66 .

###### Pledge enforcement notice

65

65.1

Before taking any other steps to enforce a pledge, the secured creditor must
serve a notice in, or as nearly as may be in, the form prescribed for the
purposes of  this subsection  (to be known as a “ pledge enforcement notice ”)
on—

65.1.a

the provider,

65.1.b

the debtor in the secured obligation (if a person other than the provider),

65.1.c

the holder of any other right in security over all or part of the encumbered
property,

65.1.d

any creditor who has executed diligence against all or part of the encumbered
property, and

65.1.e

in the case of a statutory pledge over property which is capable of being
occupied, any occupier of all or part of the property (if a person other than
the provider).

65.2

But—

65.2.a

paragraph (c)  of  subsection (1)  is to be disregarded if the secured
creditor does not know, and cannot reasonably be expected to know, of the
right in security mentioned in that paragraph, and

65.2.b

paragraph (d)  of that subsection is to be disregarded if the secured creditor
does not know, and cannot reasonably be expected to know, of the diligence
executed as mentioned in that paragraph.

65.3

If, by virtue of subsection (1)(e) of section 87 of the Consumer Credit Act
1974, a default notice must be served on the provider, the requirements of
that section and of section 88 of that Act must be satisfied before a pledge
enforcement notice is served.

65.4

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify  this section  so as to
specify—

65.4.a

further persons, or descriptions of persons, on whom the secured creditor must
serve a pledge enforcement notice (being persons who have statutory duties in
relation to the provider’s estate),

65.4.b

cases when the requirement to serve a notice on a person specified by virtue
of  paragraph (a)  is to be disregarded.

###### Whether court order required for enforcement

66

66.1

A court order is required for enforcing a pledge only—

66.1.a

as mentioned in  subsections (2)  and  (3) ,

66.1.b

where taking possession of, or steps in relation to, encumbered property in
accordance with section  67 (3)  or  (4) .

66.2

In a case where the provider of a pledge is an individual, a court order is
required for enforcing the pledge if the provider is a sole trader and
enforcement is against property used wholly or mainly for the purposes of the
provider’s business.

66.3

A court order is required for enforcing a statutory pledge in respect of
property which is the sole or main residence of an individual unless, after
the pledge becomes enforceable by virtue of  section 64 (2) , the following
persons agree in writing to its being enforced without such an order—

66.3.a

the secured creditor,

66.3.b

the provider, and

66.3.c

the individual whose sole or main residence is the property in question (if a
person other than the provider).

66.4

The court is not to grant an order required by  subsection (3)  unless
satisfied that enforcement is reasonable having had regard to all the
circumstances of the case.

66.5

Those circumstances include—

66.5.a

the nature of, and reason for, the default by virtue of which authority to
enforce is sought,

66.5.b

whether the person in default has the ability to remedy the default within a
reasonable time,

66.5.c

whether the secured creditor has done anything to help the person in default
remedy the default,

66.5.d

where it is, or was, appropriate for the person in default to take part in a
debt payment programme approved under Part 1 of the Debt Arrangement and
Attachment (Scotland) Act 2002, whether that person is taking part, or has
taken part, in such a programme, and

66.5.e

whether reasonable alternative accommodation is available for (or can be
expected to be available for) the individual whose sole or main residence is
the property in question.

###### Secured creditor’s right to take possession of, or steps in relation to, corporeal property

67

67.1

This section  applies in relation to corporeal property in respect of which a
secured creditor in a statutory pledge has served a pledge enforcement notice.

67.2

Subject to any court order that is required under  section 66 , the secured
creditor is entitled to—

67.2.a

take possession of the property, and

67.2.b

take any reasonable steps necessary to ensure, whether or not by immobilising
the property, that it is not disposed of or used in an unauthorised way,

but only in accordance with  subsection (3)  or, as the case may be,
subsection (4) .

67.3

Where the property is in the possession of a relevant person, the secured
creditor may take possession or steps under  subsection (2) —

67.3.a

with the consent of the relevant person,

67.3.b

with the consent of the court, through the agency of an authorised person, or

67.3.c

personally, if authorised to do so by the court.

67.4

Where the property is not in the possession of a relevant person, the secured
creditor may take possession or steps under  subsection (2) —

67.4.a

with the consent of—

67.4.a.i

the provider, given after the pledge becomes enforceable, and

67.4.a.ii

any third party who for the time being either is in direct possession, or has
custody, of the property,

67.4.b

through the agency of an authorised person, or

67.4.c

personally, if authorised to do so by the court.

67.5

For the purposes of  subsections (3)  and  (4) , a “relevant person” is a
person who, in respect of the property or of any part of it—

67.5.a

has a right in security which has priority in ranking over, or ranks equally
with, the pledge to which the pledge enforcement notice relates, or

67.5.b

has executed diligence which has priority in ranking over, or ranks equally
with, that pledge.

67.6

In taking possession of the property under  subsection (2) (a) , the secured
creditor is entitled to remove any individual from that property, but only
through the agency of an authorised person.

67.7

In  this section , “ authorised person ” means a messenger-at-arms or sheriff
officer.

67.8

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify  this section  so as to
specify further persons, or descriptions of persons, who are authorised
persons for the purposes of  this section .

###### Secured creditor’s right to sell

68

68.1

Where a pledge enforcement notice has been served in respect of property, the
secured creditor is, subject to any court order that is required under
section 66 , entitled to sell all or any of that property.

68.2

In selling property by virtue of  subsection (1) , the secured creditor must
take all reasonable steps to ensure that the price obtained is the best
reasonably obtainable.

68.3

The secured creditor is entitled to purchase all or any of the property but
only—

68.3.a

in a sale by public auction, and

68.3.b

for a price no lower than one which bears a reasonable relationship to market
value.

68.4

Any proceeds obtained by virtue of  subsection (1)  are to be held in trust by
the secured creditor until applied under  section 77 .

###### Sale: unencumbered acquisition

69

69.1

This section  applies where a secured creditor sells property by virtue of
section 68 (1)  and transfers the property to the purchaser.

69.2

The purchaser acquires the property unencumbered by—

69.2.a

the pledge which was the subject of the pledge enforcement notice, and

69.2.b

any right in security, or any diligence, ranking equally with or postponed to
the pledge.

69.3

The purchaser acquires the property unencumbered by—

69.3.a

any right in security which has priority in ranking over the pledge, or

69.3.b

any diligence which has priority in ranking over the pledge,

only if the holder of the right in security or, as the case may be, the
creditor who executed the diligence consented to the sale.

###### Secured creditor’s right to let

70

70.1

A secured creditor who, by virtue of  section 68 (1) , is entitled to sell
corporeal property is entitled to let all or any of that property.

70.2

In letting property by virtue of  subsection (1) , the secured creditor must
take all reasonable steps to ensure that the income obtained is the best
reasonably obtainable.

70.3

Any rental income obtained by virtue of  subsection (1)  is to be held in
trust by the secured creditor until applied under  section 77 .

70.4

The provider and the secured creditor may agree, whether before or after the
pledge becomes enforceable by virtue of  section 64 (2) , that  subsection (1)
is not to apply in relation to the corporeal property or some part of it.

70.5

Any such agreement must be in writing.

###### Secured creditor’s right to grant licence over intellectual property

71

71.1

A secured creditor who, by virtue of  section 68 (1) , is entitled to sell
intellectual property is entitled to grant a licence over all or any of that
property, but only if and to the extent that the provider is entitled to grant
such a licence.

71.2

In granting a licence by virtue of  subsection (1) , the secured creditor must
take all reasonable steps to ensure that the income obtained is the best
reasonably obtainable.

71.3

Any income obtained by virtue of  subsection (1)  is to be held in trust by
the secured creditor until applied under  section 77 .

71.4

The provider and the secured creditor may agree, whether before or after the
pledge becomes enforceable by virtue of  section 64 (2) , that  subsection (1)
is not to apply in relation to the intellectual property or some part of it.

71.5

Any such agreement must be in writing.

###### Secured creditor’s right to protect and manage the property

72

72.1

A secured creditor who, by virtue of  section 68 (1) , is entitled to sell
property is entitled to take reasonable steps to—

72.1.a

protect, maintain and manage it, and

72.1.b

preserve its value.

72.2

The right under  subsection (1)  includes, for example, the right of the
secured creditor to—

72.2.a

effect or maintain an insurance policy in relation to the property,

72.2.b

settle any liability in relation to the property,

72.2.c

bring, defend or continue legal proceedings in relation to the property,

72.2.d

take such other steps as the provider has agreed (whether before or after the
pledge becomes enforceable by virtue of  section 64 (2) ) may be taken by the
secured creditor.

72.3

Subsection (1)  is without prejudice to  section 67 (2) (b) .

###### Secured creditor’s right to appropriate

73

73.1

Where a pledge enforcement notice has been served, the secured creditor is
entitled to appropriate any or all of the encumbered property in accordance
with  section 74  or (as the case may be)  75  in satisfaction, in whole or in
part, of the secured obligation.

73.2

But it is not competent to appropriate by virtue of  subsection (1) —

73.2.a

corporeal property, unless that property is in the possession of the secured
creditor, or

73.2.b

property with a value which exceeds the total of—

73.2.b.i

the amount for the time being remaining due under the secured obligation, and

73.2.b.ii

such expenses as have reasonably been incurred by the secured creditor in
enforcing the pledge,

unless a sum of money equivalent to the amount by which that total is exceeded
is set aside by the secured creditor and held in trust until applied under
section 77 .

###### Appropriation with prior agreement

74

74.1

A provider and a secured creditor may, before a pledge becomes enforceable by
virtue of  section 64 (2) , agree that the secured creditor is entitled to
appropriate by virtue of  section 73 (1) —

74.1.a

the encumbered property, or

74.1.b

any part of that property.

74.2

Any agreement under  subsection (1)  must be in writing.

74.3

Property may only be appropriated in accordance with that agreement if it is
property in relation to which the provider and the secured creditor have, in
the agreement, set out a method of readily determining a reasonable market
price.

74.4

Property appropriated in accordance with that agreement is appropriated only
for the value, at the date of appropriation, of the property’s market price as
determined as mentioned in  subsection (3) .

74.5

Before exercising a right to appropriate property by virtue of  subsection (1)
, the secured creditor must serve a notice on—

74.5.a

the provider,

74.5.b

the debtor in the secured obligation (if a person other than the provider),

74.5.c

the holder of any other right in security over all or part of the property,
and

74.5.d

any creditor who has executed diligence against all or part of the property.

74.6

But—

74.6.a

paragraph (c)  of  subsection (5)  is to be disregarded if the secured
creditor does not know, and cannot reasonably be expected to know, of the
right in security mentioned in that paragraph, and

74.6.b

paragraph (d)  of that subsection is to be disregarded if the secured creditor
does not know, and cannot reasonably be expected to know, of the diligence
executed as mentioned in that paragraph.

74.7

A notice under  subsection (5)  must—

74.7.a

identify the property to be appropriated,

74.7.b

specify the amount for the time being remaining due under the secured
obligation,

74.7.c

specify the amount expected to be obtained by the appropriation, and

74.7.d

state that—

74.7.d.i

the recipient (if a person other than the provider or the debtor) may give a
written statement to the secured creditor objecting to the appropriation, and

74.7.d.ii

if such a statement is received by the secured creditor within 14 days
beginning with the day that the person objecting received the notice, the
appropriation is not to proceed.

74.8

If, within the period specified in  sub-paragraph (ii)  of  subsection (7) (d)
, the secured creditor receives a written statement as mentioned in that
subsection from a recipient of a notice other than the provider or the debtor—

74.8.a

the appropriation is not to proceed, and

74.8.b

the secured creditor must, by written statement and without delay, inform each
of the other recipients of the notice that the appropriation is not
proceeding.

74.9

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify  this section  so as to—

74.9.a

specify—

74.9.a.i

further persons, or descriptions of persons, on whom the secured creditor must
serve a notice (being persons who have statutory duties in relation to the
provider’s estate),

74.9.a.ii

cases when the requirement to serve a notice on a person specified by virtue
of  sub-paragraph (i)  is to be disregarded,

74.9.b

require a notice under  subsection (5)  to be in, or as nearly as may be in,
such form as is for the time being prescribed (and may in consequence remove
any requirements in  this section  as to what such a notice must contain).

###### Appropriation without prior agreement

75

75.1

This section  applies in respect of property in relation to which the provider
and the secured creditor have not reached agreement under  section 74 (1) .

75.2

Property may only be appropriated by virtue of  section 73 (1)  if the amount
obtained by the appropriation bears a reasonable relationship to the market
value of the property appropriated on the date of the appropriation.

75.3

Before exercising a right to appropriate property by virtue of  section 73 (1)
, the secured creditor must serve a notice on—

75.3.a

the provider,

75.3.b

the debtor in the secured obligation (if a person other than the provider),

75.3.c

the holder of any other right in security over all or part of the property,
and

75.3.d

any creditor who has executed diligence against all or part of the property.

75.4

But—

75.4.a

paragraph (c)  of  subsection (3)  is to be disregarded if the secured
creditor does not know, and cannot reasonably be expected to know, of the
right in security mentioned in that paragraph, and

75.4.b

paragraph (d)  of that subsection is to be disregarded if the secured creditor
does not know, and cannot reasonably be expected to know, of the diligence
executed as mentioned in that paragraph.

75.5

Any notice served under  subsection (3)  must—

75.5.a

identify the property to be appropriated,

75.5.b

specify the amount for the time being remaining due under the secured
obligation,

75.5.c

specify the amount expected to be obtained by the appropriation, and

75.5.d

state that—

75.5.d.i

the recipient may give a written statement to the secured creditor objecting
to the appropriation, and

75.5.d.ii

if such a statement is received by the secured creditor within 14 days
beginning with the day that the person objecting received the notice, the
appropriation is not to proceed.

75.6

If, within the period specified in  sub-paragraph (ii)  of  subsection (5) (d)
, the secured creditor receives a written statement as mentioned in that
subsection from a recipient of a notice—

75.6.a

the appropriation is not to proceed, and

75.6.b

the secured creditor must, by written statement and without delay, inform each
of the other recipients of the notice that the appropriation is not
proceeding.

75.7

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify  this section  so as to—

75.7.a

specify—

75.7.a.i

further persons, or descriptions of persons, on whom the secured creditor must
serve a notice (being persons who have statutory duties in relation to the
provider’s estate),

75.7.a.ii

cases when the requirement to serve a notice on a person specified by virtue
of  sub-paragraph (i)  is to be disregarded,

75.7.b

require a notice under  subsection (3)  to be in, or as nearly as may be in,
such form as is for the time being prescribed (and may in consequence remove
any requirements in  this section  as to what such a notice must contain).

###### Appropriation: unencumbered acquisition

76

Where a secured creditor appropriates property by virtue of  section 73 (1) ,
the secured creditor acquires the property unencumbered by any right in
security or any diligence.

###### Application of proceeds from enforcement of pledge

77

77.1

Any proceeds arising from the enforcement of a pledge are to be applied—

77.1.a

firstly, in payment of all expenses reasonably incurred by the secured
creditor in connection with the enforcement (including any incurred under
section 67 (2)  or  72 ), and

77.1.b

secondly, in payment of the amount due to—

77.1.b.i

the holder of any right in security over the property from which the proceeds
arose, and

77.1.b.ii

any creditor who has executed diligence against that property, and

77.1.c

with the residue (if any) from the proceeds being paid to the provider.

77.2

Any payment made by virtue of  subsection (1) (b)  is to be made in conformity
with the ranking of the right in security or, as the case may be, of the
diligence.

77.3

But no such payment is to be made to—

77.3.a

the holder of a right in security which has priority in ranking over the
pledge enforced, or

77.3.b

any creditor who has executed diligence which has such priority,

unless that holder or creditor consented to the enforcement in question.

77.4

Where payment falls to be made, by virtue of  subsection (1) (b) , to more
than one person with the same ranking but the proceeds are inadequate to
enable those persons to be paid in full, their payments are to abate in equal
proportions.

77.5

Where a question arises regarding to whom a payment under  this section  is to
be made, the secured creditor must—

77.5.a

consign the amount of the payment (so far as ascertainable) in court for the
person appearing to have the best right to that payment, and

77.5.b

lodge in court a statement of the amount consigned.

77.6

Where a consignation is made in pursuance of  subsection (5) (a) —

77.6.a

it operates as a payment of the amount due, and

77.6.b

a certificate of the court is sufficient evidence of that payment.

77.7

The secured creditor must, as soon as reasonably practicable after applying
the proceeds arising from the enforcement, issue the persons mentioned in
subsection (8)  with a written statement of how the proceeds have been applied
under  this section .

77.8

The persons referred to in  subsection (7)  are—

77.8.a

the provider,

77.8.b

the debtor in the secured obligation (if a person other than the provider),
and

77.8.c

any person who both—

77.8.c.i

is mentioned in  subsection (1) (b) , and

77.8.c.ii

has consented to the enforcement in question.

77.9

In a case where—

77.9.a

all or any of the property is let by the secured creditor by virtue of section
70 (1) , or

77.9.b

the secured creditor grants a licence over all or any of it by virtue of
section  71 (1) ,

subsection (7)  applies in relation to any proceeds of the letting or
licensing as if, for the words “as soon as reasonably practicable after
applying the proceeds arising from the enforcement”, there were substituted
“every month beginning with the month after the first proceeds arising from
the enforcement are received” .

77.10

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify  this section  so as to
specify further persons, or descriptions of persons, to whom the secured
creditor must issue a written statement (being persons who have statutory
duties in relation to the provider’s estate).

###### Mandatory application for removal of an entry from the statutory pledges record

78

78.1

This section  applies where a statutory pledge which has been registered is
extinguished by virtue of—

78.1.a

the enforcement of the statutory pledge,

78.1.b

the enforcement of another right in security over the encumbered property of
the statutory pledge, or

78.1.c

the enforcement of diligence against the encumbered property of the statutory
pledge.

78.2

The secured creditor must, as soon as reasonably practicable after the
enforcement of the statutory pledge or, as the case may be, becoming aware of
the event mentioned in  paragraph (b)  or  (c)  of  subsection (1) , make an
application under  section 96 (1)  for removal of the entry for the statutory
pledge from the statutory pledges record.

##### Liability for loss due to enforcement

###### Liability for loss suffered by virtue of enforcement

79

79.1

A person (“ P ”) is entitled to be compensated by a secured creditor for loss
suffered in consequence of the secured creditor’s failure to comply with any
obligation imposed on the secured creditor by any provision of  sections 64
to  78 .

79.2

But the secured creditor has no liability under  subsection (1) —

79.2.a

in so far as P’s loss could have been avoided had P taken measures which it
would have been reasonable for P to take, or

79.2.b

in so far as P’s loss was not reasonably foreseeable.

##### Service of documents for purposes of 

###### Service of documents for purposes of 

80

80.1

In relation to the service of documents for the purposes of  this Chapter ,
the provider and the secured creditor may agree (either or both)—

80.1.a

that the document may or must be served on a person by being sent to an
address specified in the agreement (being an address other than is mentioned
in subsection (4) of section 26 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform
(Scotland) Act 2010),

80.1.b

that service is to be by a method mentioned in subsection (2) of that section
and specified in the agreement.

80.2

The agreement need not refer expressly to that section or to any provision of
that section.

80.3

Any such agreement must be in writing.

80.4

Where there is such an agreement but service cannot be effected in accordance
with it, the agreement is to be disregarded in applying section 26 of that Act
of 2010 for the purposes of  this Chapter .

#### Register of Statutory Pledges

##### Register of Statutory Pledges

###### The Register of Statutory Pledges

81

81.1

There is to be a public register known as the Register of Statutory Pledges.

81.2

The register is to be under the management and control of the Keeper.

81.3

Subject to the provisions of this Act, the register is to be in such form as
the Keeper thinks fit.

81.4

The Keeper must take such steps as appear reasonable to the Keeper to protect
the register from—

81.4.a

interference,

81.4.b

unauthorised access, and

81.4.c

damage.

##### Structure and contents of the register

###### The parts of the register

82

The Keeper must make up and maintain, as parts of the register—

82.a

the statutory pledges record, and

82.b

the archive record.

###### The statutory pledges record

83

83.1

An entry in the statutory pledges record is to comprise—

83.1.a

the provider’s name and address,

83.1.b

where the provider is an individual, the provider’s date of birth,

83.1.c

any identifying number which the provider has and which, by virtue of RSP
Rules, must be included in the entry,

83.1.d

the secured creditor’s name and address,

83.1.e

any identifying number which the secured creditor has and which, by virtue of
RSP Rules, must be included in the entry,

83.1.f

where the secured creditor is not an individual, an address (which may be an
email address) to which any request for information regarding the statutory
pledge may be sent,

83.1.g

such description of the encumbered property as is required, or permitted, for
the purposes of  this subsection  by RSP Rules,

83.1.h

a copy of the constitutive document of the statutory pledge,

83.1.i

the registration number allocated under  section 87 (1) (b)  to the entry,

83.1.j

where the statutory pledge has been amended in pursuance of  section 58 (6) ,
a copy of the amendment document,

83.1.k

the date and time of registration of—

83.1.k.i

the statutory pledge, and

83.1.k.ii

any amendment to the statutory pledge,

83.1.l

any other information that is required under any other section of this Act,
and

83.1.m

any other information that is specified for the purposes of  this subsection
by RSP Rules.

83.2

The statutory pledges record is the totality of all such entries.

###### The archive record

84

The archive record is the totality of—

84.a

all entries and copy documents transferred from the statutory pledges record
under section  102 (2) (a)  or  (3) (c)  or by virtue of  section 95 (1) (a) ,

84.b

all copy documents included in the archive record under  section 102 (2) (c)
or  (3) (b) ,

84.c

all copies of such other documents as the Keeper considers it appropriate to
include in the archive record, and

84.d

any other information that is specified for the purposes of  this section  by
RSP Rules.

##### Registration process

###### Order in which applications are to be dealt with

85

The Keeper must deal with—

85.a

applications for registration of a statutory pledge under  section 86 , and

85.b

applications for registration of an amendment to a statutory pledge under
section 88 ,

in the order in which they are received.

###### Application for registration of statutory pledge

86

86.1

A secured creditor may apply to the Keeper for registration of a statutory
pledge.

86.2

The Keeper must accept the application if—

86.2.a

it is submitted with a copy of the constitutive document,

86.2.b

it contains all the information the Keeper requires in accordance with
section 83  to be able to make up an entry for the statutory pledge under
section 87 (1) ,

86.2.c

it conforms to such RSP Rules as relate to the application, and

86.2.d

either—

86.2.d.i

such fee as is payable for the registration is paid, or

86.2.d.ii

arrangements satisfactory to the Keeper are made for payment of that fee.

86.3

If the requirements of  subsection (2)  are not satisfied, the Keeper must
reject the application and inform the applicant accordingly.

###### Registration of statutory pledge

87

87.1

On accepting an application made under  section 86 , the Keeper must—

87.1.a

make up an entry for the statutory pledge (from the constitutive document, the
information provided in the application and the circumstances of
registration),

87.1.b

allocate a registration number to the entry (based on the order in which
applications are dealt with), and

87.1.c

maintain the entry in the statutory pledges record.

87.2

A statutory pledge is taken to be registered on the date and at the time
entered for it for the purposes of  section 83 (1) (k) (i) .

###### Application for registration of amendment

88

88.1

A secured creditor may apply to the Keeper for registration of an amendment to
a statutory pledge to increase the extent of the statutory pledge within the
meaning of section 58(7).

88.2

The Keeper must accept the application if—

88.2.a

it is submitted with a copy of the amendment document,

88.2.b

it contains all the information the Keeper requires in accordance with
section 83  to be able to revise the entry to which the application relates,

88.2.c

it conforms to such RSP Rules as relate to the application, and

88.2.d

either—

88.2.d.i

such fee as is payable for the registration is paid, or

88.2.d.ii

arrangements satisfactory to the Keeper are made for payment of that fee.

88.3

If the requirements of  subsection (2)  are not satisfied, the Keeper must
reject the application and inform the applicant accordingly.

###### Registration of amendment

89

89.1

On accepting an application made under  section 88 , the Keeper must revise
the entry for the statutory pledge to which the application relates in
accordance with the application.

89.2

An amendment to a statutory pledge is taken to be registered on the date and
at the time entered for the amendment for the purposes of  section 83 (1) (k)
(ii) .

###### Verification statement as to registration of statutory pledge or amendment

90

90.1

After the registration of a statutory pledge under  section 87  or an
amendment to a statutory pledge under  section 89 , the Keeper must issue a
written statement verifying the registration to—

90.1.a

the secured creditor, and

90.1.b

the provider,

but only if and to the extent that the application made under  section 86  or
(as the case may be)  section 88  contains an email address for those persons.

90.2

That statement must—

90.2.a

include—

90.2.a.i

the date and time of the registration, and

90.2.a.ii

the registration number allocated to the entry to which the application
relates, and

90.2.b

conform to such RSP Rules as relate to the statement.

90.3

Where a statement is issued under  subsection (1)  and is received by the
secured creditor but not the provider, the provider may request a copy of it
from the secured creditor.

90.4

Within 21 days beginning with the day a request is made under  subsection (3)
, the secured creditor must supply the provider with the copy requested.

##### Effective registration

###### Effective registration of statutory pledge

91

91.1

The registration of a statutory pledge is ineffective if—

91.1.a

the entry made up for the statutory pledge in the statutory pledges record—

91.1.a.i

does not include a copy of the constitutive document, or

91.1.a.ii

is, at the time of registration, seriously misleading as a result of an
inaccuracy or inaccuracies in it, or

91.1.b

the constitutive document is invalid.

91.2

But  subsection (1) (a) (ii)  is subject to  section 94 (1) (c)  and  (d) .

91.3

Where the registration of a statutory pledge is ineffective by virtue of
subsection (1) , it becomes effective if and when the entry is corrected.

###### Effective registration of amendment to statutory pledge

92

92.1

The registration of an amendment to a statutory pledge is ineffective if—

92.1.a

the entry for the statutory pledge in the statutory pledges record—

92.1.a.i

does not include a copy of the amendment document, or

92.1.a.ii

is, in consequence of the amendment, seriously misleading as a result of an
inaccuracy or inaccuracies in it, or

92.1.b

the amendment document is invalid.

92.2

But  subsection (1) (a) (ii)  is subject to  section 94 (1) (c)  and  (d) .

92.3

Where the registration of an amendment to a statutory pledge is ineffective by
virtue of  subsection (1) , it becomes effective if and when the entry as
amended is corrected.

###### Supervening inaccuracies: protection of third parties

93

93.1

Subsection (5) applies where, at some time after a statutory pledge is
registered effectively—

93.1.a

a person acquires, for value, in good faith and exercising reasonable care—

93.1.a.i

property which is encumbered under the pledge, or

93.1.a.ii

a right in such property, and

93.1.b

at the time the person acquires that property or right (“the acquired
property”), any one of condition A, condition B or condition C is met.

93.2

Condition A is that the entry for the pledge in the statutory pledges record
has been incorrectly removed from the statutory pledges record (whether or not
on transfer of that entry to the archive record) and remains incorrectly
absent from the record.

93.3

Condition B is that—

93.3.a

the acquired property does not have an identifying number which, by virtue of
RSP Rules, must be used in identifying it, and

93.3.b

the entry for the pledge in the statutory pledges record is seriously
misleading in respect of the acquired property.

93.4

Condition C is that—

93.4.a

the acquired property has an identifying number which, by virtue of RSP Rules,
must be used in identifying it, and

93.4.b

if a search of the statutory pledges record were to be carried out for that
number using the search facility provided under section 104, it would not
disclose the entry.

93.5

On the acquisition, the statutory pledge is extinguished in relation to the
acquired property.

93.6

For the purposes of  subsection (1) (a) , the circumstances in which a person
will not be taken to be in good faith and exercising reasonable care include
where the person fails to carry out a search of the statutory pledges record
in respect of the acquisition.

###### Seriously misleading inaccuracies in the statutory pledges record

94

94.1

In determining for the purposes of sections  91 (1) (a) (ii) ,  92 (1) (a)
(ii)  and  93 (3)  whether an entry in the statutory pledges record is
seriously misleading as a result of an inaccuracy or inaccuracies in it—

94.1.a

the entry is seriously misleading where—

94.1.a.i

any of subsections  (2)  to  (6)  apply, or

94.1.a.ii

despite  sub-paragraph (i)  not being satisfied, the inaccuracy or
inaccuracies are such that a reasonable person would be seriously misled by
the entry,

94.1.b

any inaccuracy is to be disregarded to the extent that it appears in the
constitutive document, or in any amendment document, but is not replicated
elsewhere in the entry,

94.1.c

where the entry is seriously misleading in respect of only part of the
encumbered property, that is not to be taken to affect the entry in its
application to the rest of the property,

94.1.d

where the entry is seriously misleading in respect of a co-provider or co-
secured creditor but not in respect of both (or all) co-providers or co-
secured creditors, that is not to be taken to affect the entry in its
application to a co-provider or co-secured creditor in respect of whom the
entry is not seriously misleading.

94.2

This subsection  applies where—

94.2.a

the provider is a person required by RSP Rules to be identified in the
statutory pledges record by an identifying number, and

94.2.b

if a search of the record were to be carried out for that number, using the
search facility provided under  section 104 , it would not disclose the entry.

94.3

This subsection  applies where—

94.3.a

the provider is not a person required by RSP Rules to be identified in the
statutory pledges record by an identifying number, and

94.3.b

if a search of the record were to be carried out, using the search facility
provided under  section 104 , for—

94.3.b.i

the provider’s proper name, or

94.3.b.ii

the provider’s proper name together with the provider’s month and year of
birth,

it would not disclose the entry.

94.4

This subsection  applies—

94.4.a

for the purposes of  sections 91 (1) (a) (ii)  and  92 (1) (a) (ii)  only, and

94.4.b

where the entry inaccurately reflects the secured creditor’s proper name at
the date the application for registration was made in such a way that a
reasonable person would be seriously misled.

94.5

This subsection  applies where—

94.5.a

the encumbered property is or includes property required by RSP Rules to be
identified in the statutory pledges record by an identifying number, and

94.5.b

if a search of the record were to be carried out for that number, using the
search facility provided under  section 104 , it would not disclose the entry.

94.6

This subsection  applies where—

94.6.a

there is a requirement, by virtue of  section 83 (1) (g) , for an entry in the
statutory pledges record to specify the type of property encumbered, and

94.6.b

the entry—

94.6.b.i

does not describe the property as being of a type that it is, or

94.6.b.ii

fails to allocate a type to the property.

94.7

In the application of  this section  to co-providers and co-secured creditors—

94.7.a

subsections  (2)  and  (3)  apply in relation to a co-provider as they apply
in relation to a provider,

94.7.b

subsection (4)  applies in relation to a co-secured creditor as it applies in
relation to a secured creditor.

94.8

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify  this section  to make
provision about what does, and what does not, make an entry seriously
misleading for the purposes of sections  91 (1) (a) (ii) ,  92 (1) (a) (ii)
and  93 (3)  and how that is to be determined.

94.9

In  this section , the “proper name” of a provider or secured creditor means
the person’s name in the form determined in accordance with RSP Rules.

##### Duration

###### Power of Scottish Ministers in relation to duration of statutory pledge

95

95.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations—

95.1.a

specify a period from the creation or renewal of an entry in the statutory
pledges record at the end of which the statutory pledge to which the entry
relates will be extinguished and the entry removed, unless during that period
the entry has been—

95.1.a.i

renewed by virtue of paragraph  (b) , or

95.1.a.ii

removed, and

95.1.b

enable an application to be made by the secured creditor for the renewal of an
entry which would otherwise fall to be removed by virtue of  paragraph (a) .

95.2

Before laying a draft of a Scottish statutory instrument containing
regulations under  subsection (1)  before the Scottish Parliament, the
Scottish Ministers must consult the Keeper.

##### Corrections

###### Application by secured creditor for correction of statutory pledges record

96

96.1

A relevant person may apply to the Keeper for an entry in the statutory
pledges record to be corrected.

96.2

The Keeper must accept the application if—

96.2.a

it conforms to such RSP Rules as relate to the application, and

96.2.b

either—

96.2.b.i

such fee as is payable for the correction is paid, or

96.2.b.ii

arrangements satisfactory to the Keeper are made for payment of that fee.

96.3

If the requirements of  subsection (2)  are not satisfied, the Keeper must
reject the application and inform the applicant accordingly.

96.4

For the purposes of  subsection (1) , “relevant person”—

96.4.a

means the person who is the secured creditor in relation to the entry (whether
or not identified as such in the entry), and

96.4.b

where the statutory pledge has been assigned, also includes the person who was
the secured creditor before the assignation.

###### Correction of record in response to application under 

97

97.1

On accepting an application made under  section 96 , the Keeper must correct
the entry in the statutory pledges record accordingly.

97.2

After the correction of an entry under  subsection (1) , the Keeper must issue
a written statement verifying the correction to—

97.2.a

the applicant, and

97.2.b

the provider,

but only if and to the extent that the application contains an email address
for those persons.

97.3

That statement must—

97.3.a

include—

97.3.a.i

the date and time of the correction, and

97.3.a.ii

the registration number allocated to the entry to which the correction
relates, and

97.3.b

conform to such RSP Rules as relate to the statement.

97.4

Where a statement is issued under  subsection (2)  and is received by the
applicant but not the provider, the provider may request a copy of it from the
applicant.

97.5

Within 21 days beginning with the day a request is made under  subsection (4)
, the applicant must supply the provider with the copy requested.

###### Demand that application for correction be made under 

98

98.1

A person may, where the conditions in  subsection (2)  or  (3)  are met, issue
a demand to the person identified in an entry in the statutory pledges record
as the secured creditor (the “registered creditor”) that the registered
creditor apply to the Keeper under  section 96  for the entry to be corrected.

98.2

The conditions in  this subsection  are that the person—

98.2.a

is identified as the provider, or as a co-provider, of the statutory pledge in
the entry, and

98.2.b

either—

98.2.b.i

claims not to be either the provider, or a co-provider, of the statutory
pledge, or

98.2.b.ii

considers that all or part of the property identified as the encumbered
property in the entry is not encumbered property.

98.3

The conditions in  this subsection  are that the person—

98.3.a

has a right in property identified as the encumbered property in the entry,
and

98.3.b

considers that all or part of the property is not encumbered property.

98.4

A demand issued under  subsection (1)  must—

98.4.a

be in a prescribed form, and

98.4.b

specify a period (being a period of not less than 21 days after it is
received) within which compliance with it is sought.

98.5

A registered creditor may not charge a fee for compliance with a demand under
subsection (1) .

98.6

If the registered creditor fails to comply with the demand within the period
specified by virtue of  subsection (4) (b) , the person who made the demand
may apply to the Keeper for the statutory pledges record to be corrected.

###### Response to application for correction under 

99

99.1

The Keeper must accept an application made under  section 98 (6)  if—

99.1.a

it conforms to such RSP Rules as relate to the application, and

99.1.b

either—

99.1.b.i

such fee as is payable for the application is paid, or

99.1.b.ii

arrangements satisfactory to the Keeper are made for payment of that fee.

99.2

If the requirements of  subsection (1)  are not satisfied, the Keeper must
reject the application and inform the applicant accordingly.

99.3

On accepting an application made under  section 98 (6) , the Keeper must—

99.3.a

serve a notice on the registered creditor stating that the Keeper intends to
correct the statutory pledges record on a date specified in the notice (being
a date no fewer than 21 days after the date of the notice),

99.3.b

note on the entry to which the application relates that the application has
been received and include in that note—

99.3.b.i

the details of the correction sought, and

99.3.b.ii

the date on which the application was received,

99.3.c

issue a written statement to the applicant verifying that the application has
been received, and

99.3.d

notify the person identified in the entry as the provider (if a different
person from the applicant) that the notice mentioned in  paragraph (a)  has
been served on the registered creditor.

99.4

The registered creditor—

99.4.a

may, before the date specified under  subsection (3) (a) , apply to the court
opposing the making of the correction, and

99.4.b

on making any such application, must notify the Keeper accordingly.

99.5

Where the registered creditor is not the secured creditor in relation to the
statutory pledge in the entry—

99.5.a

the registered creditor must, in so far as it is reasonable and practicable to
do so, promptly notify the secured creditor of the notice received under
subsection (3)(a), and

99.5.b

subsection (4) applies to the secured creditor as it applies to the registered
creditor.

99.6

On an application under  subsection (4) (a) , the court may—

99.6.a

if satisfied that the correction is not justified, direct that no change be
made to the record in consequence of the application under  section 98 (6) ,
or

99.6.b

if satisfied that the correction is justified in whole or in part, direct that
the record be corrected accordingly.

99.7

But the court is not to make a direction under  subsection (6)  unless
satisfied that, before the date specified by virtue of  subsection (3) (a) ,
the Keeper received notification under  subsection (4) (b)  of the application
to the court.

99.8

If the Keeper does not receive, before the date specified by virtue of
subsection (3) (a) , notification under  subsection (4) (b)  of an application
to the court, the Keeper is on that date to make the correction.

99.9

In  this section , “ registered creditor ” has the same meaning as in  section
98 .

###### Correction of the statutory pledges record at instance of the court or the Keeper

100

100.1

Where a court determines in any proceedings that the statutory pledges record
is inaccurate, the court—

100.1.a

must direct the Keeper to correct the record, and

100.1.b

may give the Keeper any further direction it considers necessary in connection
with the correction.

100.2

Subsection (3)  applies where the Keeper becomes aware of a manifest
inaccuracy in the statutory pledges record other than—

100.2.a

as a result of a direction under  subsection (1) ,

100.2.b

where an application has been made under section  96 (1)  or  98 (6)  in
respect of the inaccuracy, or

100.2.c

where the Keeper considers that—

100.2.c.i

such an application could reasonably be made in respect of the inaccuracy, and

100.2.c.ii

the inaccuracy is not attributable to the Keeper.

100.3

The Keeper must—

100.3.a

correct the record if what is needed to correct it is manifest,

100.3.b

if what is needed to correct it is not manifest, note the inaccuracy on the
entry in question.

###### Meaning of “inaccuracy” and how a correction is made

101

101.1

There is an “inaccuracy” in the statutory pledges record where the record
misstates what the position is, in law or in fact, in relation to a statutory
pledge.

101.2

A correction of the statutory pledges record—

101.2.a

may relate to an inaccuracy—

101.2.a.i

which has existed since an entry in the record was made up, or

101.2.a.ii

which has arisen due to circumstances that have occurred since the submission
of the application in respect of which the entry was made up, and

101.2.b

may involve—

101.2.b.i

the removal of an entry,

101.2.b.ii

the removal of information included in an entry,

101.2.b.iii

the amendment of, or an addition to, the information, or replacement of a copy
document, included in an entry,

101.2.b.iv

the restoration of information, or of a copy document, to an entry,

101.2.b.v

the restoration of an entry (whether or not by transferring it from the
archive record to the statutory pledges record).

101.3

A correction is taken to be made on the date and at the time entered for it in
the register in pursuance of a provision of  this Part .

###### Correction of the statutory pledges record: procedure

102

102.1

This section  applies where the Keeper corrects the statutory pledges record
by virtue of section  97 (1) ,  99 (6) (b)  or  (8)  or  100 (1) (a)  or  (3)
(a) .

102.2

Where the Keeper corrects the statutory pledges record by removing an entry
from the statutory pledges record, the Keeper must—

102.2.a

transfer the entry to the archive record,

102.2.b

note on the transferred entry—

102.2.b.i

the section by virtue of which the transfer is made, and

102.2.b.ii

the details of the correction (including the date and time of the removal),
and

102.2.c

include in the archive record a copy of any document which discloses, or
contributes to disclosing, the inaccuracy which is the subject of the
correction.

102.3

Where the Keeper corrects the record by restoring an entry, by restoring,
removing or amending information included in an entry or by restoring or
replacing a copy document, the Keeper must—

102.3.a

note on the entry that it has been corrected and the details of the correction
(including the date and time of the correction),

102.3.b

include in the archive record a copy of any document which discloses, or
contributes to disclosing, the inaccuracy which is the subject of the
correction, and

102.3.c

in the case of the replacement of the copy document, transfer the replaced
copy to the archive record.

102.4

Having corrected the record other than by virtue of section  97 (1) , the
Keeper must notify the following persons (in so far as it is reasonable and
practicable to do so) that the correction has been made—

102.4.a

every person specified for the purposes of  this subsection  by RSP Rules, and

102.4.b

any other person who appears to the Keeper to be affected by it materially.

102.5

A failure to comply with  subsection (2) (c) ,  (3) (b)  or  (4)  does not
affect the validity of the correction of the record.

###### Proceedings involving the accuracy of the statutory pledges record

103

The Keeper is entitled to appear and be heard in any civil proceedings,
whether before a court or tribunal, in which—

103.a

the accuracy of the statutory pledges record, or

103.b

what is needed to correct an inaccuracy in the record,

is put in question.

##### Searches and extracts

###### Searching the statutory pledges record

104

104.1

The Keeper must provide a facility by which the statutory pledges record may
be searched.

104.2

That search facility must allow the statutory pledges record to be searched by
reference to, and only by reference to—

104.2.a

any of the following information in the entries contained in that record—

104.2.a.i

the names of providers, which must be capable of being searched with and
without the months and years of birth of providers who are individuals,

104.2.a.ii

the identifying numbers of providers required by RSP Rules to be identified in
the statutory pledges record by such a number,

104.2.a.iii

if RSP Rules require the encumbered property to be identified (whether by an
identifying number or in some other way), by reference to such identification,

104.2.b

registration numbers allocated, under  section 87 (1) (b) , to entries in that
record, or

104.2.c

any other factor, or characteristic, specified for the purposes of  this
paragraph  by RSP Rules.

104.3

Subject to any restrictions imposed under RSP Rules, a person may search the
statutory pledges record using the search facility provided under  subsection
(1)  provided that either—

104.3.a

such fee as is payable for the search is paid, or

104.3.b

arrangements satisfactory to the Keeper are made for payment of that fee. 

104.4

But no fee is payable for a search of the statutory pledges record which is
carried out on behalf of an individual by a not-for-profit money adviser
(being an adviser who does not charge individuals for the adviser’s services).

104.5

The Scottish Ministers may, by regulations, make further provision about the
meaning of “ not-for-profit money adviser ” for the purposes of subsection
(4).

###### Admissibility and evidential status of search results

105

105.1

A copy of a search result (in printed or electronic form) which relates to a
search carried out by means of a search facility provided by the Keeper is
admissible in evidence.

105.2

In the absence of evidence to the contrary—

105.2.a

where such a search result purports to show an entry in the statutory pledges
record, it is sufficient proof of—

105.2.a.i

the registration of the statutory pledge, or an amendment to the entry in the
statutory pledges record, to which the result relates,

105.2.a.ii

where applicable, a correction of the entry in the statutory pledges record to
which the result relates, and

105.2.a.iii

the date and time of such registration or, as the case may be, correction, and

105.2.b

where such a search result purports not to show an entry in the statutory
pledges record, it is sufficient proof of an entry in the statutory pledges
record not being disclosed at the date and time of such search by means of the
search carried out.

###### Extracts and their evidential status

106

106.1

A person may apply to the Keeper for an extract of an entry in the register.

106.2

The Keeper must issue the extract if—

106.2.a

such fee as is payable for issuing it is paid, or

106.2.b

arrangements satisfactory to the Keeper are made for payment of that fee.

106.3

But if, on application under subsection (1), the applicant requests an extract
as at a specific date and time, the Keeper need comply with the request only
to the extent that it is reasonably practicable to do so.

106.4

The Keeper may validate the extract as the Keeper considers appropriate.

106.5

The Keeper may issue the extract as an electronic document unless the
applicant requests that it be issued as a traditional document.

106.6

The extract is to be accepted for all purposes as sufficient evidence of the
contents of the entry as at—

106.6.a

in the case of an extract requested as mentioned in subsection (3), the date
and time to which the extract relates (being a date and time specified in the
extract), and

106.6.b

in any other case, the date on which and the time at which the extract is
issued (being a date and time specified in the extract).

##### Requests for information

###### Secured creditor’s duty to respond to request for information

107

107.1

An entitled person may ask the person identified in an entry in the statutory
pledges record as the secured creditor (the “registered creditor”) to provide
the entitled person with the following—

107.1.a

if the registered creditor is the secured creditor, with a written statement
as to whether or not property specified by the entitled person is, or is part
of, the encumbered property,

107.1.b

if the registered creditor is no longer the secured creditor, with—

107.1.b.i

information to that effect,

107.1.b.ii

the name and address of the person to whom the registered creditor assigned
the statutory pledge, and

107.1.b.iii

where relevant and in so far as known, the names and addresses of subsequent
assignees, or

107.1.c

if the registered creditor has never been the secured creditor, with
information to that effect.

107.2

The following are entitled persons for the purposes of  this section —

107.2.a

a person who has a right in the property so specified,

107.2.b

a person who has a right to execute diligence against the property so
specified (or who is authorised to execute a charge for payment and will have
the right to execute diligence against that property if and when the days of
charge expire without payment), and

107.2.c

a person who is not mentioned in  paragraph (a)  or  (b)  but who has the
consent of the person identified in the entry as the provider to make a
request under  subsection (1) .

107.3

The registered creditor must, within 21 days beginning with the day of
receiving a request under  subsection (1) , comply with it unless—

107.3.a

it is manifest that the registration is ineffective in relation to the
statutory pledge to which the request relates,

107.3.b

it is manifest from the entry for the statutory pledge that the property
specified under  subsection (1)  by the entitled person is not encumbered by
the pledge, or

107.3.c

both—

107.3.c.i

the registered creditor has, within the period of 3 months ending with the day
of receipt of the request, complied with a request under  subsection (1)  from
the same person and in relation to the same property, and

107.3.c.ii

the information contained in the statement issued in relation to the earlier
request remains correct.

107.4

The registered creditor may recover from the entitled person any costs
reasonably incurred in complying with the request.

107.5

On the application of the registered creditor, the court may by order—

107.5.a

exempt the registered creditor from complying with a request under  subsection
(1)  or such part of the request as it specifies in the order, or

107.5.b

extend the period within which the registered creditor must comply with the
request by such number of days as it specifies in the order,

if satisfied that in all the circumstances it would be reasonable to do so.

107.6

If, on the application of the entitled person, the court is satisfied that the
registered creditor has, without reasonable excuse, failed to comply with
subsection (3) , it may by order require the registered creditor to comply
with the request within 14 days or such other period (which may be longer or
shorter than 14 days) as the court considers appropriate.

107.7

This section  applies in relation to any person whose name and address have
been provided to an entitled person by virtue of  subsection (1) (b)  as it
applies to the registered creditor.

107.8

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify  this section  so as to
specify further persons, or descriptions of persons, who are entitled persons
for the purposes of  this section .

###### Acquisition of property confirmed by creditor not to be encumbered property

108

108.1

Subsection  (2)  applies where a person who is an entitled person for the
purposes of  section 107 —

108.1.a

makes a request under  subsection (1)  of that section,

108.1.b

receives a response from the person of whom the request was made, in the form
of a statement of the type mentioned in  paragraph (a)  of that subsection,
advising that the property specified under that subsection by the entitled
person is neither the encumbered property nor part of that property, and

108.1.c

within 3 months beginning with the date of being so advised acquires in good
faith—

108.1.c.i

the property so specified (or any part of it), or

108.1.c.ii

a right in that property (or part).

108.2

On that acquisition, the statutory pledge is extinguished in relation to the
property (or part).

##### Entitlement to compensation

###### Liability of Keeper

109

109.1

A person is entitled to be compensated by the Keeper for loss suffered in
consequence of—

109.1.a

an inaccuracy in the statutory pledges record to the extent that it is
attributable to the making up, maintenance or operation of the register
(including an attempted correction of it),

109.1.b

the issue, under  section 90 (1)  or  97 (2) , of a written statement which is
incorrect,

109.1.c

the service, under  section 102 (4) , of a notification which is incorrect,

109.1.d

a search result which—

109.1.d.i

relates to a search of the statutory pledges record carried out by means of a
search facility provided by the Keeper,

109.1.d.ii

ought (as a result of the search terms used) to reflect accurately the
contents of the statutory pledges record at the time the search was made, and

109.1.d.iii

does not accurately reflect those contents,

109.1.e

the issue, under  section 106 , of an extract which is not a true extract,

109.1.f

an application being accepted or rejected in error,

109.1.g

an attempt to make an application, which the Keeper would otherwise have
accepted, failing as a result of an error in the system the Keeper has for
accepting applications, or

109.1.h

applications being dealt with otherwise than in the order in which they are
received.

109.2

But the Keeper has no liability under  subsection (1) —

109.2.a

in so far as the person’s loss could have been avoided had the person taken
measures which it would have been reasonable for the person to take,

109.2.b

in so far as the person’s loss was not reasonably foreseeable, or

109.2.c

for non-patrimonial loss.

109.3

For the avoidance of doubt, an inaccuracy in information included in an entry
in the statutory pledges record when that entry is made up under  section 87
(1) (a) , revised under  section 89 (1)  or corrected by virtue of  section 97
(1) ,  99 (6) (b)  or  (8)  or  100 (1) (a)  or  (3) (a)  does not fall within
subsection (1) (a)  to the extent that the Keeper—

109.3.a

has been misled into making the inaccuracy, and

109.3.b

reasonably believed the information to be accurate.

109.4

For the purposes of  subsection (3) , the circumstances where the Keeper is
entitled to reasonably believe information to be accurate include those where
it is provided—

109.4.a

in connection with an application to which the entry relates, or

109.4.b

by the court.

###### Liability of certain other persons

110

110.1

A person (“ P ”) is entitled to be compensated in the following circumstances—

110.1.a

where P suffers loss in consequence of an inaccuracy in an entry in the
statutory pledges record then, to the extent that it is not attributable to
the Keeper, P is entitled to be compensated for that loss by—

110.1.a.i

the person who made the application for registration which gave rise to the
inaccurate entry if that person failed to take reasonable care in making it,
or

110.1.a.ii

where the inaccurate entry arises from the attempted correction of an apparent
inaccuracy, the person who notified the Keeper of the apparent inaccuracy if
that person failed to take reasonable care in doing so,

110.1.b

where P suffers loss in consequence of an inaccuracy in information supplied
in response to a request under  section 107 (1) , P is entitled to be
compensated for that loss by the person who supplied the information if that
person failed to take reasonable care in supplying it, or

110.1.c

where P suffers loss in consequence of a failure, without reasonable excuse,
to comply with a request in accordance with  section 107 (3) , P is entitled
to be compensated for that loss by the person whose failure it was.

110.2

But a person has no liability under  subsection (1) —

110.2.a

in so far as P’s loss could have been avoided had P taken measures which it
would have been reasonable for P to take,

110.2.b

in so far as P’s loss was not reasonably foreseeable, or

110.2.c

for non-patrimonial loss.

##### Rules

###### Rules

111

111.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make rules (“RSP Rules”)—

111.1.a

about the making up and keeping of the register,

111.1.b

about the procedure in relation to—

111.1.b.i

applications for registration under  section 86 (1)  or  88 (1) , or

111.1.b.ii

applications for corrections under  section 96 (1)  or  98 (6) ,

111.1.c

about searches in the register and the results of those searches,

111.1.d

about the required form and content of any document or information to be used
in relation to the register,

111.1.e

requiring there to be entered in the statutory pledges record or the archive
record such information as is specified in the rules, or

111.1.f

regarding other matters in relation to registration under  this Part , being
matters for which the Scottish Ministers consider it necessary or expedient to
provide in order to give full effect to the purposes of  this Part .

111.2

RSP Rules under  subsection (1)  may, in particular, include provision—

111.2.a

about the identification, in any application and in the register, of any
person or property, including—

111.2.a.i

how the proper form of a person’s name is to be determined, and

111.2.a.ii

where the person or property has an identifying number (whether of numerals or
of letters and numerals) allocated to the person or property, whether that
number must be used in identifying the person or property,

111.2.b

about the nature of the address of the provider or the secured creditor to be
included in an entry in the register,

111.2.c

about the degree of precision with which time is to be recorded in the
register, 

111.2.d

about information which, though contained in a constitutive document or
amendment document, need not be included in a copy of that document submitted
with an application under section  86 (1)  or  88 (1) ,

111.2.e

about whether a signature contained in a constitutive document or amendment
document need be included in a copy of that document so submitted,

111.2.f

about information which, though contained in the register, is not to be—

111.2.f.i

available to persons searching it, or

111.2.f.ii

included in any extract issued under  section 106 ,

111.2.g

about when the register is open for—

111.2.g.i

registration,

111.2.g.ii

searches.

111.3

Before laying a draft of a Scottish statutory instrument containing
regulations under  subsection (1)  before the Scottish Parliament, the
Scottish Ministers must consult the Keeper.

#### Miscellaneous and Interpretation of 

##### Miscellaneous

###### Competence of creating an agricultural charge

112

On the coming into force of  this section , it ceases to be competent to
create an agricultural charge (“agricultural charge” having the meaning given
by section 5 of the Agricultural Credits (Scotland) Act 1929).

##### Interpretation of 

###### Interpretation of 

113

113.1

In  this Part  (except where the context requires otherwise)—

      “ amendment document ” has the meaning given by  section 58 (1) ,
“ the archive record ” is to be construed in accordance with  section 84 ,
“ corporeal moveable property ” does not include money,           “ correction
”, in relation to the statutory pledges record, is to be construed in
accordance with  section 101 (2) ,           “ encumbered property ” has the
meaning given by  section 43 (2) ,           “ inaccuracy ”, in relation to
the statutory pledges record, is to be construed in accordance with  section
101 (1) ,           “ money ” has the meaning given by section 175(1) of the
Bankruptcy and Diligence etc. (Scotland) Act 2007,           “ pledge ”, in
sections  64  to  77 , is to be construed in accordance with  section 63 ,
“ pledge enforcement notice ” has the meaning given by  section 65 (1) ,
“ provider ”—         means the person who grants a pledge, and
includes or, as the case may be, consists of any successor in title, or
representative, of a provider (unless the successor or representative is a
person who, by virtue of  Chapter 1 , had acquired the encumbered property
unencumbered by the statutory pledge in question),                 “ the
register ” means the Register of Statutory Pledges,           “ right in
security ”—         means a right in security over property (including a
floating charge), but           does not include a right to execute diligence,
“ RSP Rules ” has the meaning given by  section 111 (1) ,           “ secured
creditor ”—         means the person in whose favour a pledge is granted, and
includes or, as the case may be, consists of any successor in title, or
representative, of a secured creditor,                 “ secured obligation ”
is to be construed in accordance with  section 43 (1) ,           “ statutory
pledge ” has the meaning given by  section 42 (4) , and           “ the
statutory pledges record ” is to be construed in accordance with  section 83
(2) .

113.2

Where two or more persons are co-providers or co-secured creditors in relation
to a statutory pledge, any reference in this Act to the provider or secured
creditor (as the case may be) is, unless the context requires otherwise, a
reference to all of those persons.

113.3

A reference in  this Part —

113.3.a

to a statutory pledge being registered (however expressed) is to be construed
as a reference to the Keeper’s carrying out, in respect of the pledge, the
duties imposed on the Keeper by  section 87 (1) (a)  and  (b) ,

113.3.b

to an amendment to a statutory pledge being registered (however expressed) is
to be construed as a reference to the Keeper’s carrying out, in respect of the
amendment, the duty imposed on the Keeper by  section 89 (1) .

### Miscellaneous and General

#### Computer system

##### Automated computer system

114

114.1

The Keeper may, by means of an automated computer system under the Keeper’s
management and control, carry out the duties imposed on the Keeper under
Chapter 2  of  Part 1  and  Chapter 2  of  Part 2 .

114.2

The power under  subsection (1)  includes, for example, the power to enable—

114.2.a

the electronic generation and communication of applications under this Act,

114.2.b

automated registration under this Act, and

114.2.c

the creation of electronic documents.

114.3

The Keeper may impose reasonable conditions for using any computer system
provided for the purposes of  subsection (1) .

#### Registration of electronic documents

##### Competence of registration of electronic documents

115

Section 9G(1)(d) of the Requirements of Writing (Scotland) Act 1995
(registration and recording of electronic documents) does not apply in
relation to the registration of a document by the Keeper under this Act.

#### Good faith

##### Good faith

116

116.1

This section  applies in relation to any provision made in this Act as
respects good faith.

116.2

If there is a dispute as to whether a person was in (or acted in) good faith,
the burden of proof lies on whoever asserts that the person was not in (or did
not act in) good faith.

#### Review of the Act

##### Review of Act

117

117.1

The Scottish Ministers must, as soon as reasonably practicable after the end
of the review period—

117.1.a

undertake a review of the operation of this Act, and

117.1.b

prepare a report on that review.

117.2

The report must, in particular, set out—

117.2.a

an assessment of—

117.2.a.i

the impact of allowing the debtor to waive the right to assert defences as
provided for in section 14(1), and

117.2.a.ii

how well the provisions regarding statutory pledges are working in relation to
sole traders and small businesses, and

117.2.b

the steps (if any) that the Scottish Ministers propose to take as a result of
the findings of the review.

117.3

The Scottish Ministers must, as soon as reasonably practicable after preparing
the report—

117.3.a

publish the report, and

117.3.b

lay the report before the Scottish Parliament.

117.4

For the purposes of this section, “the review period” is the period of 5 years
beginning with the day on which sections 1 and 42 come into force or, if they
come into force on different days, the earlier of those days.

#### General

##### Regulations

118

118.1

Any power of the Scottish Ministers to make regulations under this Act
includes the power to make—

118.1.a

incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory or saving
provision,

118.1.b

different provision for different purposes.

118.2

Regulations under any of the following sections are subject to the affirmative
procedure:  section 3 (8) ,  4 (7) ,  28 (7) ,  32 (1) ,  36 (8) ,  46 (3) ,
47 (3) ,  50 (4) ,  51 (4) ,  54 (3) ,  55 (8) ,  65 (4) ,  67 (8) ,  74 (9)
(a) ,  75 (7) (a) ,  77 (10) ,  94 (8) ,  95 (1) ,  107 (8)  or  120 (3) .

118.3

Regulations under section  74 (9) (b) ,  75 (7) (b)  or  119  which add to,
replace or omit any part of the text of an Act are subject to the affirmative
procedure.

118.4

Any other regulations under this Act are subject to the negative procedure.

118.5

This section  does not apply to regulations under  section 121 .

##### Ancillary provision

119

119.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make any incidental, supplementary,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision they consider
appropriate for the purposes of, in connection with or for giving full effect
to this Act or any provision made under it.

119.2

Regulations under  this section  may modify any enactment (including this
Act).

##### Interpretation of Act

120

120.1

In this Act (except where the context requires otherwise)—

      “ court ” means Court of Session or sheriff,           “ electronic
document ” has the meaning given by section 9A of the Requirements of Writing
(Scotland) Act 1995,           “ electronic signature ” has the meaning given
by section 12(1) of the Requirements of Writing (Scotland) Act 1995,
“ the Keeper ” means the Keeper of the Registers of Scotland,           “
prescribed ” means prescribed by regulations made by the Scottish Ministers,
“ registration number ” means a unique identifier consisting of numerals or of
letters and numerals, and           “ traditional document ” has the meaning
given by section 1A of the Requirements of Writing (Scotland) Act 1995.

120.2

In this Act, a reference (however expressed) to—

120.2.a

the authentication of a document by a person is a reference to the electronic
signature of that person—

120.2.a.i

being incorporated into, or logically associated with, the electronic
document, and

120.2.a.ii

having been created by that person,

120.2.b

the execution of a document is a reference to the document’s being subscribed
as a traditional document in compliance with section 2(1) of the Requirements
of Writing (Scotland) Act 1995.

120.3

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify (either or both) paragraph
(a) or paragraph (b) of subsection (2).

120.4

Where, under or by virtue of a provision of this Act, however expressed, a
person (“ P ”) is required or permitted to proceed in some way, the provision
is to be construed as if any reference in it to P includes a reference to any
person authorised by P to proceed in such a way on P’s behalf.

##### Commencement

121

121.1

This section  and sections  118 ,  119  and  122  come into force on the day
after Royal Assent.

121.2

The other provisions of this Act come into force on such day as the Scottish
Ministers may by regulations appoint.

121.3

Regulations under  this section  may—

121.3.a

include transitional, transitory or saving provision,

121.3.b

make different provision for different purposes.

##### Short title

122

The short title of this Act is the Moveable Transactions (Scotland) Act 2023.

