Title: National Security Act 2023
Date: 2024-10-23
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/32

## National Security Act 2023

                                                   B e it enacted  by the
King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords
Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and
by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Espionage, sabotage and persons acting for foreign powers

#### Espionage etc

##### Obtaining or disclosing protected information

1

1.1

A person commits an offence if—

1.1.a

the person—

1.1.a.i

obtains, copies, records or retains protected information, or

1.1.a.ii

discloses or provides access to protected information,

1.1.b

the person’s conduct is for a purpose that they know, or having regard to
other matters known to them ought reasonably to know, is prejudicial to the
safety or interests of the United Kingdom, and

1.1.c

the foreign power condition is met in relation to the person’s conduct (see
section  31 ).

1.2

In  this section  “ protected information ” means any information, document or
other article where, for the purpose of protecting the safety or interests of
the United Kingdom—

1.2.a

access to the information, document or other article is restricted in any way,
or

1.2.b

it is reasonable to expect that access to the information, document or other
article would be restricted in any way.

1.3

Subsection (1)  applies whether the person’s conduct takes place in the United
Kingdom or elsewhere.

1.4

A person who commits an offence under  this section  is liable on conviction
on indictment to imprisonment for life or a fine (or both).

1.5

For the purposes of  this section —

1.5.a

a person retains protected information if the person retains it in their
possession or under their control;

1.5.b

disclosure includes parting with possession.

##### Obtaining or disclosing trade secrets

2

2.1

A person commits an offence if—

2.1.a

the person—

2.1.a.i

obtains, copies, records or retains a trade secret, or

2.1.a.ii

discloses or provides access to a trade secret,

2.1.b

the person’s conduct is unauthorised,

2.1.c

the person knows, or having regard to other matters known to them ought
reasonably to know, that their conduct is unauthorised, and

2.1.d

the foreign power condition is met in relation to the person’s conduct (see
section  31 ).

2.2

A “ trade secret ” means any information, document or other article which—

2.2.a

is not generally known by, or available to, persons with knowledge of or
expertise in the field to which it relates,

2.2.b

has actual or potential industrial, economic or commercial value which would
be, or could reasonably be expected to be, adversely affected if it became
generally known by, or available to, such persons, and

2.2.c

could reasonably be expected to be subject to measures to prevent it becoming
generally known by, or available to, such persons (whether or not it is
actually subject to such measures).

2.3

A person’s conduct is unauthorised if the person—

2.3.a

is not entitled to determine whether they may engage in the conduct, and

2.3.b

does not have consent to engage in the conduct from a person who is so
entitled.

2.4

Subsection  (1)  applies whether the person’s conduct takes place in the
United Kingdom or elsewhere (but see  subsection (5) ).

2.5

Conduct within subsection  (1)  which takes place wholly outside the United
Kingdom constitutes an offence only if the trade secret is in the possession
or under the control of a UK person.

2.6

A “ UK person ” means—

2.6.a

a United Kingdom national;

2.6.b

an individual who lives in the United Kingdom;

2.6.c

a body incorporated under the law of a part of the United Kingdom;

2.6.d

an unincorporated association formed under the law of a part of the United
Kingdom.

2.7

A “United Kingdom national” is an individual who is—

2.7.a

a British citizen, a British overseas territories citizen, a British National
(Overseas) or a British Overseas citizen,

2.7.b

a person who under the British Nationality Act 1981 is a British subject, or

2.7.c

a British protected person within the meaning of that Act.

2.8

A person who commits an offence under this section is liable on conviction on
indictment to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 14 years or a fine (or
both).

2.9

For the purposes of  this section —

2.9.a

a person retains a trade secret if they retain it in their possession or under
their control;

2.9.b

disclosure includes parting with possession.

##### Assisting a foreign intelligence service

3

3.1

A person commits an offence if the person—

3.1.a

engages in conduct of any kind, and

3.1.b

intends that conduct to materially assist a foreign intelligence service in
carrying out UK-related activities.

3.2

A person commits an offence if the person—

3.2.a

engages in conduct that is likely to materially assist a foreign intelligence
service in carrying out UK-related activities, and

3.2.b

knows, or having regard to other matters known to them ought reasonably to
know, that their conduct is likely to materially assist a foreign intelligence
service in carrying out UK-related activities.

3.3

Conduct that may be likely to materially assist a foreign intelligence service
includes providing, or providing access to, information, goods, services or
financial benefits (whether directly or indirectly).

3.4

“ UK-related activities ” means—

3.4.a

activities taking place in the United Kingdom;

3.4.b

activities taking place outside the United Kingdom which are prejudicial to
the safety or interests of the United Kingdom.

3.5

For the purposes of  subsections (1)  and  (2)  it is not necessary to
identify a particular foreign intelligence service.

3.6

Subsections (1)  and  (2)  apply to conduct outside the United Kingdom, but
apply to conduct taking place wholly outside the United Kingdom only if the
person engaging in the conduct—

3.6.a

is a UK person, or

3.6.b

acts for or on behalf of, or holds office under, the Crown, or is in Crown
employment (whether or not they engage in the conduct in that capacity).

3.7

In proceedings for an offence under this section it is a defence to show that
the person engaged in the conduct in question—

3.7.a

in compliance with a legal obligation under the law of the United Kingdom
which is not a legal obligation under private law,

3.7.b

in the case of a person having functions of a public nature under the law of
the United Kingdom, for the purposes of those functions,

3.7.c

as a lawyer carrying on a legal activity, or

3.7.d

in accordance with, or in relation to UK-related activities carried out in
accordance with, an agreement or arrangement to which—

3.7.d.i

the United Kingdom was a party, or

3.7.d.ii

any person acting for or on behalf of, or holding office under, the Crown was
(in that capacity) a party.

3.8

A person is taken to have shown a matter mentioned in subsection  (7)  if—

3.8.a

sufficient evidence of the matter is adduced to raise an issue with respect to
it, and

3.8.b

the contrary is not proved beyond reasonable doubt.

3.9

A person who commits an offence under  this section  is liable on conviction
on indictment to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 14 years or a fine (or
both).

3.10

In  this section —

                                    “ Crown employment ” means employment
under or for the purposes of a government department or any officer or body
exercising on behalf of the Crown functions conferred by an enactment;
“ financial benefit ” means money or money’s worth;
“ foreign intelligence service ” means any person whose functions include
carrying out intelligence activities for or on behalf of a foreign power;
the “ law of the United Kingdom ” includes the law of any part of the United
Kingdom;
“ lawyer ” has the meaning given by paragraph  6 (3)  of Schedule  15 ;
“ legal activity ” has the meaning given by paragraph  6 (4)  of Schedule  15
;
“ UK person ” has the same meaning as in section  2 .

#### Entering and inspecting places used for defence etc

##### Entering etc a prohibited place for a purpose prejudicial to the UK

4

4.1

A person commits an offence if—

4.1.a

the person—

4.1.a.i

accesses, enters, inspects, passes over or under, approaches or is in the
vicinity of a prohibited place, or

4.1.a.ii

causes an unmanned vehicle or device to access, enter, inspect, pass over or
under, approach or be in the vicinity of a prohibited place, and

4.1.b

that conduct is for a purpose that the person knows, or having regard to other
matters known to them ought reasonably to know, is prejudicial to the safety
or interests of the United Kingdom.

4.2

In  subsection (1) (a)  a reference to inspecting a prohibited place includes—

4.2.a

taking, or procuring the taking of, photographs, videos or other recordings of
the prohibited place;

4.2.b

inspecting photographs, videos or other recordings of the prohibited place.

4.3

For the purposes of  this section , a person engages in conduct mentioned in
subsection (1) (a)  if the person does so in person or by electronic or remote
means.

4.4

Subsection  (1)  applies whether the person’s conduct takes place in the
United Kingdom or elsewhere.

4.5

A person who commits an offence under  this section  is liable on conviction
on indictment to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 14 years or a fine (or
both).

4.6

In this Part “ vehicle ” means any form of transport.

##### Unauthorised entry etc to a prohibited place

5

5.1

A person commits an offence if—

5.1.a

the person—

5.1.a.i

accesses, enters, inspects or passes over or under a prohibited place, or

5.1.a.ii

causes an unmanned vehicle or device to access, enter, inspect or pass over or
under a prohibited place,

5.1.b

that conduct is unauthorised, and

5.1.c

the person knows, or having regard to other matters known to them ought
reasonably to know, that their conduct is unauthorised.

5.2

A person’s conduct is unauthorised if the person—

5.2.a

is not entitled to determine whether they may engage in the conduct, and

5.2.b

does not have consent to engage in the conduct from a person so entitled.

5.3

In  subsection (1) (a)  a reference to inspecting a prohibited place includes
taking, or procuring the taking of, photographs, videos or other recordings of
the prohibited place.

5.4

For the purposes of  this section , a person engages in conduct mentioned in
subsection (1) (a)  if the person does so in person or by electronic or remote
means.

5.5

A person who commits an offence under  this section  is liable—

5.5.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the maximum term for summary offences or a fine (or both);

5.5.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6
months or a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both);

5.5.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or
both).

##### Powers of police officers in relation to a prohibited place

6

6.1

A constable may order—

6.1.a

a person not to engage, or to cease to engage, in conduct mentioned in
section 4 (1) (a)  (whether in person or by electronic or remote means) in
relation to a prohibited place;

6.1.b

a person who has accessed or entered a prohibited place (whether in person or
by electronic or remote means) to leave it immediately;

6.1.c

a person in an area adjacent to a prohibited place to leave the area
immediately;

6.1.d

the driver or person in charge of a vehicle or device (whether in person or by
electronic or remote means) in a prohibited place, or in an area adjacent to a
prohibited place, to move the vehicle or device from the place or area
immediately.

6.2

A constable may arrange for—

6.2.a

the removal of a vehicle or device from a prohibited place or an area adjacent
to a prohibited place;

6.2.b

the movement of a vehicle or device within a prohibited place or an area
adjacent to a prohibited place.

6.3

A constable may not exercise a power under  subsection (1)  or  (2)  unless
the constable reasonably believes that exercising the power is necessary to
protect the safety or interests of the United Kingdom.

6.4

A person commits an offence if the person fails to comply with an order
imposed under  subsection (1) .

6.5

A person who commits an offence under  this section  is liable on summary
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or a fine not
exceeding level 4 on the standard scale (or both).

##### Meaning of “prohibited place”

7

7.1

In this Part “ prohibited place ” means—

7.1.a

Crown land in the United Kingdom or the Sovereign Base Areas of Akrotiri and
Dhekelia which is used—

7.1.a.i

for UK defence purposes;

7.1.a.ii

for extracting any metals, oil or minerals for use for UK defence purposes;

7.1.a.iii

for the purposes of the defence of a foreign country or territory;

7.1.b

a vehicle—

7.1.b.i

situated in the United Kingdom or the Sovereign Base Areas of Akrotiri and
Dhekelia which is used for UK defence purposes or for the purposes of the
defence of a foreign country or territory;

7.1.b.ii

not so situated which is used for UK defence purposes;

7.1.c

any land or building in the United Kingdom or the Sovereign Base Areas of
Akrotiri and Dhekelia which is used for the purposes described in  subsection
(2) (b)  or  (3) (b)  (or both);

7.1.d

any land or building in the United Kingdom or the Sovereign Base Areas of
Akrotiri and Dhekelia which is—

7.1.d.i

owned or controlled by the Security Service, the Secret Intelligence Service
or GCHQ, and

7.1.d.ii

used for the functions of the Security Service, the Secret Intelligence
Service or GCHQ;

7.1.e

any land or building or vehicle designated as a prohibited place in
regulations made under  section 8 .

7.2

In  subsection (1)  use for UK defence purposes means use for the purposes of—

7.2.a

the activities of the armed forces of the Crown,

7.2.b

the invention, development, production, operation, storage or disposal of
weapons or other equipment or capabilities of those forces and research
relating to it,

7.2.c

United Kingdom defence policy and strategy and military planning and
intelligence, or

7.2.d

plans and measures for the maintenance of essential supplies and services that
are or would be needed by the United Kingdom in time of war.

7.3

In  subsection (1)  use for the purposes of the defence of a foreign country
or territory means use for the purposes of—

7.3.a

the activities of the armed forces of the foreign country or territory, or

7.3.b

the invention, development, production, operation, storage or disposal of
weapons or other equipment or capabilities of those forces and research
relating to it.

7.4

In  this section —

                                    “ building ” includes any part of a
building;
“ Crown land ” means any land or building in which there is a Crown interest
or a Duchy interest;
“ Crown interest ” means any of the following—
an interest belonging to His Majesty in right of the Crown or in right of His
private estates;
an interest belonging to a United Kingdom government department or held in
trust for His Majesty for the purposes of a United Kingdom government
department;
“ Duchy interest ” means an interest belonging to His Majesty in right of the
Duchy of Lancaster or belonging to the Duchy of Cornwall;
“ foreign country or territory ” means a country or territory outside the
United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man or the British Overseas
Territories;
“ GCHQ ” has the meaning given by section 3(3) of the Intelligence Services
Act 1994.

7.5

In  subsection (4)  the reference to His Majesty’s private estates is to be
construed in accordance with section 1 of the Crown Private Estates Act 1862.

##### Power to designate additional sites as prohibited places

8

8.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations designate—

8.1.a

land or a building situated in the United Kingdom or the Sovereign Base Areas
of Akrotiri and Dhekelia, or

8.1.b

a vehicle,

as a prohibited place.

8.2

The power in  subsection (1)  may be exercised only if, having regard to the
matters mentioned in  subsection (3) , the Secretary of State reasonably
considers it necessary to do so in order to protect the safety or interests of
the United Kingdom.

8.3

Those matters are—

8.3.a

the purpose for which the land or building or vehicle is used;

8.3.b

the nature of any information held, stored or processed on the land or in the
building or vehicle;

8.3.c

the nature of any technology, equipment or material located on the land or in
the building or vehicle.

8.4

The power in  subsection (1)  may be exercised in relation to—

8.4.a

a description of land or buildings, or

8.4.b

a description of vehicle,

as well as in relation to particular land or buildings or a particular
vehicle.

8.5

In  this section  “ building ” includes any part of a building.

##### Power to designate a cordoned area to secure defence aircraft

9

9.1

A constable may designate an area as a cordoned area.

9.2

A constable may designate an area under  subsection (1)  only if the constable
considers it expedient to do so for the purposes of securing—

9.2.a

an aircraft, or a part of an aircraft, used for military purposes, or

9.2.b

equipment relating to such an aircraft.

9.3

If a designation is made orally, the constable making the designation must
confirm it in writing as soon as is reasonably practicable.

9.4

A constable making a designation must, as soon as is reasonably practicable—

9.4.a

make a written record of the time at which the designation was made, and

9.4.b

ensure that a police officer of at least the rank of superintendent is
informed.

9.5

An officer who is informed of a designation in accordance with  subsection (4)
(b)  must—

9.5.a

confirm the designation or cancel it with effect from such time as the officer
may direct, and

9.5.b

if the officer cancels the designation, make a written record of the
cancellation and the reason for it.

9.6

A constable making a designation must arrange for the demarcation of the
cordoned area, so far as is reasonably practicable—

9.6.a

by means of tape marked with the word “police”, or

9.6.b

in such other manner as the constable considers appropriate.

##### Duration of cordon

10

10.1

A designation under  section 9  has effect, subject to  subsections (2)  to
(5) , during the period—

10.1.a

beginning at the time when it is made, and

10.1.b

ending with a date or at a time specified in the designation.

10.2

The date or time specified under  subsection (1) (b)  must not be later than
the end of the period of 14 days beginning with the day on which the
designation is made.

10.3

A constable may extend from time to time the period during which a designation
has effect.

10.4

An extension under  subsection (3)  must—

10.4.a

be in writing, and

10.4.b

specify the additional period during which the designation is to have effect.

10.5

An extension under  subsection (3)  must not provide for a designation to have
effect after the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which
the designation is made.

##### Powers of police in relation to a cordoned area

11

11.1

A constable may order—

11.1.a

a person not to do any of the following (whether in person or by electronic or
remote means)—

11.1.a.i

enter, inspect, pass over or under, approach or be in the vicinity of a
cordoned area, or

11.1.a.ii

cause an unmanned vehicle or device to enter, inspect, pass over or under,
approach or be in the vicinity of a cordoned area;

11.1.b

a person in a cordoned area (whether in person or by electronic or remote
means) to leave it immediately;

11.1.c

a person in an area adjacent to a cordoned area to leave the area immediately;

11.1.d

the driver or person in charge of a vehicle or device (whether in person or by
electronic or remote means) in a cordoned area to move the vehicle or device
from the area immediately.

11.2

In  subsection (1)  a reference to inspecting a cordoned area includes taking
or procuring the taking of photographs, videos or other recordings.

11.3

A constable may arrange for—

11.3.a

the removal of a vehicle or device from a cordoned area;

11.3.b

the movement of a vehicle or device within a cordoned area.

11.4

A person commits an offence if the person fails to comply with an order
imposed under  subsection (1) .

11.5

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under  subsection (4)  to
show that the person had a reasonable excuse for that failure.

11.6

A person is taken to have shown a matter mentioned in subsection  (5)  if—

11.6.a

sufficient evidence of the matter is adduced to raise an issue with respect to
it, and

11.6.b

the contrary is not proved beyond reasonable doubt.

11.7

A person who commits an offence under  subsection (4)  is liable on summary
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or a fine not
exceeding level 4 on the standard scale (or both).

11.8

In  this section  “ cordoned area ” means an area designated as a cordoned
area under  section 9 .

#### Sabotage

##### Sabotage

12

12.1

A person commits an offence if—

12.1.a

the person engages in conduct that results in damage to any asset,

12.1.b

the person intends their conduct to result in damage to an asset, or is
reckless as to whether their conduct will result in damage to an asset,

12.1.c

the person’s conduct is for a purpose that they know, or having regard to
other matters known to them ought reasonably to know, is prejudicial to the
safety or interests of the United Kingdom, and

12.1.d

the foreign power condition is met in relation to the person’s conduct (see
section  31 ).

12.2

Subsection (1)  applies—

12.2.a

whether the person’s conduct takes place in the United Kingdom or elsewhere;

12.2.b

whether the asset is in the United Kingdom or elsewhere.

12.3

In  this section —

                                    “ asset ” means an asset of any kind
whether tangible or intangible and includes in particular real and personal
property, electronic systems and information;
“ damage ” includes any of the following (whether permanent or temporary)—
destruction;
alteration;
contamination;
interference;
loss of or reduction in access or availability;
loss of or reduction in function, utility or reliability.

12.4

A person who commits an offence under  this section  is liable on conviction
on indictment to imprisonment for life or a fine (or both).

#### Foreign interference

##### Foreign interference: general

13

13.1

A person commits an offence if—

13.1.a

the person engages in prohibited conduct,

13.1.b

the foreign power condition is met in relation to the prohibited conduct, and

13.1.c

the person intends the prohibited conduct, or a course of conduct of which it
forms part, to have an interference effect.

13.2

A person commits an offence if—

13.2.a

the person engages in prohibited conduct,

13.2.b

the foreign power condition is met in relation to the prohibited conduct, and

13.2.c

the person is reckless as to whether the prohibited conduct, or a course of
conduct of which it forms part, will have an interference effect.

13.3

A person (“ P ”) commits an offence if—

13.3.a

P engages in a course of conduct with one or more other persons,

13.3.b

the foreign power condition is met in relation to conduct of P which forms
part of the course of conduct,

13.3.c

P intends the course of conduct to have an interference effect,

13.3.d

as part of the course of conduct, a person other than P engages in prohibited
conduct, and

13.3.e

P intends or believes that, as part of the course of conduct, a person other
than P will engage in prohibited conduct.

13.4

For the purposes of subsections  (1) (c)  and  (2) (c)  a course of conduct
includes a course of conduct engaged in by the person alone, or by the person
and one or more other persons.

13.5

Subsections  (1)  and  (2)  apply whether the person’s conduct takes place in
the United Kingdom or elsewhere.

13.6

Subsection  (3)  applies whether P’s conduct or the prohibited conduct takes
place in the United Kingdom or elsewhere.

13.7

A person who commits an offence under  this section  is liable on conviction
on indictment to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 14 years or a fine (or
both).

13.8

In  this section —

                                    “ interference effect ” has the meaning
given by section  14 ;
“ prohibited conduct ” has the meaning given by section  15 .

##### Foreign interference: meaning of “interference effect”

14

14.1

For the purposes of section  13  an “ interference effect ” means any of the
following effects—

14.1.a

interfering with the exercise by a particular person of a Convention right in
the United Kingdom,

14.1.b

affecting the exercise by any person of their public functions,

14.1.c

interfering with whether, or how, any person makes use of services provided in
the exercise of public functions,

14.1.d

interfering with whether, or how, any person (other than in the exercise of a
public function) participates in relevant political processes or makes
political decisions,

14.1.e

interfering with whether, or how, any person (other than in the exercise of a
public function) participates in legal processes under the law of the United
Kingdom, or

14.1.f

prejudicing the safety or interests of the United Kingdom.

14.2

An effect may be an interference effect whether it relates to a specific
instance of a matter mentioned in subsection  (1) , or to the matter in
general.

14.3

In subsection  (1) (d)  “ relevant political processes ” means—

14.3.a

an election or referendum in the United Kingdom,

14.3.b

the proceedings of a local authority,

14.3.c

the proceedings of a UK registered political party, or

14.3.d

the activities of an informal group consisting of or including members of—

14.3.d.i

one or both of Houses of Parliament,

14.3.d.ii

the Northern Ireland Assembly,

14.3.d.iii

the Scottish Parliament, or

14.3.d.iv

Senedd Cymru,

(acting in that capacity).

14.4

In subsection  (1) (d)  “ political decisions ” means decisions of—

14.4.a

a Minister of the Crown (within the meaning of the Ministers of the Crown Act
1975) or a United Kingdom government department,

14.4.b

a Northern Ireland Minister, the First Minister in Northern Ireland, the
deputy First Minister in Northern Ireland, a person appointed as a junior
Minister under section 19 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998, a Northern Ireland
department or the Executive Committee of the Northern Ireland Assembly,

14.4.c

the Scottish Ministers or the First Minister for Scotland,

14.4.d

the Welsh Ministers, the First Minister for Wales or the Counsel General to
the Welsh Government, or

14.4.e

a local authority.

14.5

In  this section —

                                    “ Convention rights ” has the meaning
given by section 1 of the Human Rights Act 1998;
the “ law of the United Kingdom ” includes the law of any part of the United
Kingdom;
“ local authority ” means—
in England—
a county council;
a district council;
a London borough council;
a combined authority established under section 103 of the Local Democracy,
Economic Development and Construction Act 2009;
a parish council;
the Council of the Isles of Scilly;
the Common Council of the City of London;
the Sub-Treasurer of the Inner Temple;
the Under Treasurer of the Middle Temple;
in Wales, a county council, county borough council or community council;
in Scotland, a council constituted under section 2 of the Local Government
etc. (Scotland) Act 1994;
in Northern Ireland, a district council;
“ public functions ” means functions of a public nature—
exercisable in the United Kingdom, or
exercisable in a country or territory outside the United Kingdom by a person
acting for or on behalf of, or holding office under, the Crown;
“ UK registered political party ” means a political party registered under
Part 2 of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.

##### Foreign interference: meaning of “prohibited conduct”

15

15.1

Conduct is prohibited conduct for the purposes of section  13  if—

15.1.a

it constitutes an offence, or

15.1.b

if it takes place in a country or territory outside the United Kingdom, it
would constitute an offence if it took place in any part of the United
Kingdom.

15.2

Conduct is prohibited conduct for the purposes of section  13  if it involves
coercion of any kind, including coercion by—

15.2.a

using or threatening to use violence against a person;

15.2.b

damaging or destroying, or threatening to damage or destroy, a person’s
property;

15.2.c

damaging or threatening to damage a person’s reputation;

15.2.d

causing or threatening to cause financial loss to a person;

15.2.e

causing spiritual injury to, or placing undue spiritual pressure on, a person;

(whether or not that person is the person to whom the interference effect
relates).

15.3

Conduct is prohibited conduct for the purposes of section  13  if it involves
making a misrepresentation.

15.4

A “misrepresentation” is a representation—

15.4.a

that a reasonable person would consider to be false or misleading in a way
material to the interference effect, and

15.4.b

that the person making the representation knows or intends to be false or
misleading in a way material to the interference effect.

15.5

A misrepresentation may be made by making a statement or by any other kind of
conduct, and may be express or implied.

15.6

A misrepresentation may in particular include—

15.6.a

a misrepresentation as to a person’s identity or purpose;

15.6.b

presenting information in a way which amounts to a misrepresentation, even if
some or all of the information is true.

15.7

In this section “ interference effect ” has the meaning given by section  14 .

##### Foreign interference in elections

16

16.1

This section  applies where—

16.1.a

a person commits a relevant electoral offence on or after the day on which
this section  comes into force, and

16.1.b

the foreign power condition is met in relation to the conduct of the person
which constitutes the offence (see section  31 ).

16.2

A “relevant electoral offence” is an offence listed in column 1 of the table
in  Part 1  of  Schedule 1  (“the table”).

16.3

The person is liable on conviction on indictment to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding the specified maximum term or a fine (or both).

16.4

The specified maximum term is the term specified in column 2 of the table in
relation to the relevant electoral offence.

16.5

Where an offence is found to have been committed over a period of 2 or more
days, or at some time during a period of 2 or more days, it must be taken for
the purposes of  subsection (1)  to have been committed on the first of those
days.

16.6

Part 2  of  Schedule 1  amends provisions relating to relevant electoral
offences.

#### Obtaining benefits from a foreign intelligence service

##### Obtaining etc material benefits from a foreign intelligence service

17

17.1

A person commits an offence if—

17.1.a

the person—

17.1.a.i

obtains, accepts or retains a material benefit which is not an excluded
benefit, or

17.1.a.ii

obtains or accepts the provision of such a benefit to another person,

17.1.b

the benefit is or was provided by or on behalf of a foreign intelligence
service, and

17.1.c

the person knows, or having regard to other matters known to them ought
reasonably to know, that the benefit is or was provided by or on behalf of a
foreign intelligence service.

17.2

A person commits an offence if—

17.2.a

the person agrees to accept—

17.2.a.i

a material benefit which is not an excluded benefit, or

17.2.a.ii

the provision of such a benefit to another person,

17.2.b

the benefit is to be provided by or on behalf of a foreign intelligence
service, and

17.2.c

the person knows, or having regard to other matters known to them ought
reasonably to know, that the benefit is to be provided by or on behalf of a
foreign intelligence service.

17.3

Material benefits may include financial benefits, anything which has the
potential to result in a financial benefit, and information.

17.4

A material benefit is an excluded benefit if—

17.4.a

it is provided as reasonable consideration for the provision of goods or
services, and

17.4.b

the provision of those goods or services does not constitute an offence.

17.5

A benefit may be provided by or on behalf of a foreign intelligence service
directly or indirectly (for example, it may be provided indirectly through one
or more companies).

17.6

Subsections  (1)  and  (2)  apply to conduct outside the United Kingdom, but
apply to conduct taking place wholly outside the United Kingdom only if—

17.6.a

the material benefit is or was, or is to be, provided in or from the United
Kingdom, or

17.6.b

in any case, the person engaging in the conduct—

17.6.b.i

is a UK person, or

17.6.b.ii

acts for or on behalf of, or holds office under, the Crown, or is in Crown
employment (whether or not they engage in the conduct in that capacity).

17.7

In proceedings for an offence under subsection  (1)  by virtue of retaining a
benefit, it is a defence to show that the person had a reasonable excuse for
retaining the benefit.

17.8

In proceedings for an offence under subsection  (1)  or  (2)  it is a defence
to show that the person engaged in the conduct in question—

17.8.a

in compliance with a legal obligation under the law of the United Kingdom
which is not a legal obligation under private law,

17.8.b

in the case of a person having functions of a public nature under the law of
the United Kingdom, for the purposes of those functions, or

17.8.c

in accordance with an agreement or arrangement to which—

17.8.c.i

the United Kingdom was a party, or

17.8.c.ii

any person acting for or on behalf of, or holding office under, the Crown was
(in that capacity) a party.

17.9

A person is taken to have shown a matter mentioned in subsection  (7)  or  (8)
if—

17.9.a

sufficient evidence of the matter is adduced to raise an issue with respect to
it, and

17.9.b

the contrary is not proved beyond reasonable doubt.

17.10

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (1)  is liable on conviction
on indictment to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 14 years or a fine (or
both).

17.11

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (2)  is liable on conviction
on indictment to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 10 years or a fine (or
both).

17.12

The following terms have the same meaning as in  section 3 —

                                    “ Crown employment ”;
“ financial benefit ”;
“ foreign intelligence service ”;
the “ law of the United Kingdom ”;
“ UK person ”.

#### Preparatory conduct

##### Preparatory conduct

18

18.1

A person commits an offence if, with the intention of—

18.1.a

committing acts to which this section applies, or

18.1.b

acts to which this section applies being committed by another person,

the person engages in any conduct in preparation for the commission of such
acts.

18.2

It is immaterial whether the person’s intention relates to, or the person’s
conduct is in preparation for, specific acts to which this section applies, or
acts to which this section applies in general.

18.3

This section applies to—

18.3.a

acts which constitute an offence under—

18.3.a.i

section  1  (obtaining or disclosing protected information);

18.3.a.ii

section 2  (obtaining or disclosing trade secrets);

18.3.a.iii

section 4  (entering etc. a prohibited place for a purpose prejudicial to the
UK);

18.3.a.iv

section 12  (sabotage);

18.3.b

acts within  subsection (4)  in relation to which the foreign power condition
is met.

18.4

Acts are within  this subsection  if they—

18.4.a

involve serious violence against a person in the United Kingdom,

18.4.b

endanger the life of a person in the United Kingdom, or

18.4.c

create a serious risk to the health or safety of the public, or a section of
the public, in the United Kingdom.

18.5

Subsection (1)  applies whether the person’s conduct takes place in the United
Kingdom or elsewhere.

18.6

A person who commits an offence under  this section  is liable on conviction
on indictment to imprisonment for life or a fine (or both).

#### Acting for foreign power as aggravating factor in sentencing

##### Aggravating factor where foreign power condition met: England and Wales

19

19.1

The Sentencing Code is amended as follows.

19.2

After section 69 insert—

########### Offences where foreign power condition met

19.2.69A

19.2.69A.1

This section applies where a court is considering the seriousness of an
offence that—

19.2.69A.1.a

is committed on or after the day on which section  19  of the National
Security Act 2023 comes into force, and

19.2.69A.1.b

is not an offence listed in subsection  (2) .

19.2.69A.2

Those offences are—

19.2.69A.2.a

an offence under the National Security Act 2023 or an inchoate offence (see
section 398) in relation to any such offence;

19.2.69A.2.b

a relevant electoral offence within the meaning given by section  16  of that
Act (foreign interference in elections).

19.2.69A.3

Where the foreign power condition is met in relation to the conduct that
constitutes the offence, the court—

19.2.69A.3.a

must treat that fact as an aggravating factor, and

19.2.69A.3.b

must state in open court that the offence is so aggravated.

19.2.69A.4

Where an offence is found to have been committed over a period of 2 or more
days, or at some time during a period of 2 or more days, it must be taken for
the purposes of subsection  (1)  to have been committed on the first of those
days.

19.2.69A.5

Section  31  of the National Security Act 2023 (meaning of foreign power
condition) applies for the purposes of this section as it applies for the
purposes of Part  1  of that Act.

##### Aggravating factor where foreign power condition met: Northern Ireland

20

20.1

This section  applies where a court in Northern Ireland is considering for the
purposes of sentence the seriousness of an offence that—

20.1.a

is committed on or after the day on which  this section  comes into force, and

20.1.b

is not an offence listed in  subsection (2) .

20.2

Those offences are—

20.2.a

an offence under this Act or an ancillary offence in relation to any such
offence;

20.2.b

a relevant electoral offence (within the meaning given by section  16 ).

20.3

An “ ancillary offence ”, in relation to an offence, means any of the
following—

20.3.a

aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring the commission of the offence;

20.3.b

an offence under Part 2 of the Serious Crime Act 2007 (encouraging or
assisting crime) in relation to the offence;

20.3.c

attempting or conspiring to commit the offence.

20.4

For the purposes of  this section , an offence committed by a person under
Part 2 of the Serious Crime Act 2007 is related to another offence if that
other offence is the offence (or one of the offences) which the person
intended or believed would be committed.

20.5

Where the foreign power condition is met in relation to the conduct that
constitutes the offence, the court—

20.5.a

must treat that fact as an aggravating factor, and

20.5.b

must state in open court that the offence is so aggravated.

20.6

Where an offence is found to have been committed over a period of 2 or more
days, or at some time during a period of 2 or more days, it must be taken for
the purposes of  subsection (1)  to have been committed on the first of those
days.

20.7

In  this section  “ sentence ”, in relation to an offence, includes any order
made by a court when dealing with a person in respect of the offence.

##### Aggravating factor where foreign power condition met: Scotland

21

21.1

This section  applies where in Scotland, in relation to a relevant offence, it
is—

21.1.a

libelled in an indictment, and

21.1.b

proved,

that the offence has been aggravated by reason of the foreign power condition
being met in relation to the conduct that constitutes the offence.

21.2

Where  this section  applies, the court must take the aggravation into account
in determining the appropriate sentence.

21.3

Where the sentence imposed by the court in respect of the offence is different
from that which the court would have imposed if the offence had not been
aggravated by reason of being an offence within  subsection (1) , the court
must state the extent of, and the reasons for, the difference.

21.4

Evidence from a single source is sufficient to prove that an offence has been
aggravated by reason of the foreign power condition being met in relation to
conduct which constitutes the offence.

21.5

A “relevant offence” is an offence that—

21.5.a

is committed on or after the day on which  this section  comes into force, and

21.5.b

is not an offence listed in  subsection (6) .

21.6

Those offences are—

21.6.a

an offence under this Act or an ancillary offence in relation to any such
offence;

21.6.b

a relevant electoral offence (within the meaning given by section  16 ).

21.7

An “ ancillary offence ”, in relation to an offence, means any of the
following—

21.7.a

being art and part in the commission of the offence;

21.7.b

inciting a person to commit the offence;

21.7.c

attempting or conspiring to commit the offence.

21.8

Where an offence is found to have been committed over a period of 2 or more
days, or at some time during a period of 2 or more days, it must be taken for
the purposes of  subsection (5) (a)  to have been committed on the first of
those days.

##### Aggravating factor where foreign power condition met: armed forces

22

In section 238 of the Armed Forces Act 2006 (deciding the seriousness of an
offence), at the end insert—

22.7

In section  69A  of the Sentencing Code (seriousness of offence where foreign
power condition met)—

22.7.a

the references in that section to a court are to be read as including a court
dealing with an offender for a service offence, and

22.7.b

the reference in subsection (1)(b) to an offence which is not an offence
listed in subsection (2) is to be taken as a reference to an offence under
section 42 as respects which the corresponding offence under the law of
England and Wales is not an offence so listed.

#### Powers of investigation etc

##### Powers of search etc

23

Schedule 2  confers powers of entry, search and seizure in relation to—

23.a

certain offences under  this Part  of this Act, and

23.b

acts or threats within section  33 (3) (b)  or  (c) .

##### Disclosure orders

24

Schedule 3  makes provision for disclosure orders.

##### Customer information orders

25

Schedule 4  makes provision for customer information orders.

##### Account monitoring orders

26

Schedule 5  makes provision for account monitoring orders.

##### Arrest without warrant

27

27.1

A constable may arrest without a warrant anyone who the constable reasonably
suspects is, or has been, involved in foreign power threat activity.

27.2

Schedule 6  makes provision about detention under  this section .

27.3

Subject to  subsections (5)  to  (8) , a person detained under  this section
must be released (unless detained under any other power) not later than the
end of the period of 48 hours beginning with—

27.3.a

the time of the person’s arrest under  this section , or

27.3.b

if the person was being detained under a provision listed in  subsection (4)
when arrested under  this section , with the time when the person was detained
under that provision.

27.4

Those provisions are—

27.4.a

section 24 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984;

27.4.b

Article 26 of the Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 (
S.I. 1989/1341 (N.I. 12) );

27.4.c

section 41 of, and Schedule 7 to, the Terrorism Act 2000;

27.4.d

section 1 of the  Criminal Justice (Scotland) Act 2016 (asp 1) ;

27.4.e

Part 1 of Schedule 3 to the Counter-Terrorism and Border Security Act 2019.

27.5

A person arrested under  this section  must be released if, on a review of the
person’s detention under  Part 5  of  Schedule 6 , the review officer does not
authorise continued detention.

This subsection  does not apply if the person is detained in accordance with
subsection (6)  or  (7)  or under any other power.

27.6

Where a police officer intends to make an application for a warrant under
paragraph 37  of  Schedule 6  (warrant of further detention) to extend the
period of a person’s detention, the person may be detained pending the making
of the application.

27.7

Where an application has been made—

27.7.a

under  paragraph 37  of  Schedule 6  for a warrant to extend the period of a
person’s detention, or

27.7.b

under paragraph  44  of that Schedule to further extend the period of a
person’s detention,

the person may be detained pending the conclusion of proceedings on the
application.

27.8

Where an application under  paragraph 37  or  44  of  Schedule 6  is granted
in respect of a person’s detention, the person may be detained, subject to
paragraph 45  of that Schedule (conditions for detention), during the period
specified in the warrant.

27.9

The refusal of an application in respect of a person’s detention under
paragraph 37  or  44  of  Schedule 6  does not prevent the person’s continued
detention in accordance with  this section .

27.10

Subsection (11)  applies where—

27.10.a

a person is detained under  this section  in hospital, or

27.10.b

a person detained under  this section  is removed to hospital because the
person needs medical treatment.

27.11

Where this subsection applies—

27.11.a

any time during which the person is being questioned in hospital or (where
this subsection applies by virtue of  subsection (10) (b) ) on the way there
or back for the purpose of obtaining relevant evidence is to be included in
calculating any period which falls to be calculated for the purposes of  this
section  or  Part 6  of  Schedule 6 , but

27.11.b

any other time when the person is in hospital or (where this subsection
applies by virtue of  subsection (10) (b) ) on the way there or back is not to
be included.

27.12

In  subsection (11)  “ relevant evidence ” means, in relation to the detained
person, evidence which indicates that the detained person is, or has been,
involved in foreign power threat activity.

27.13

A person who has the powers of a constable in one part of the United Kingdom
may exercise the power under  subsection (1)  in any part of the United
Kingdom.

27.14

In  this section  and  Schedule 6  references to involvement in foreign power
threat activity do not include involvement in such activity occurring before
this section  comes into force.

##### Use of reasonable force

28

28.1

A power conferred on a constable by virtue of this Part—

28.1.a

is additional to powers which the constable has at common law or by virtue of
any other enactment, and

28.1.b

is not to be taken as affecting those powers.

28.2

A constable may if necessary use reasonable force for the purpose of
exercising a power conferred on the constable by virtue of this Part.

##### Border security

29

In paragraph 12(11) of Schedule 3 to the Counter-Terrorism and Border Security
Act 2019 (definition of protected material)—

29.a

in paragraph (a)—

29.a.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (i) insert  “or” ;

29.a.ii

omit the “or” at the end of sub-paragraph (ii);

29.a.iii

omit sub-paragraph (iii);

29.b

in paragraph (b)(ii) omit “or (iii)”;

29.c

in paragraph (c)—

29.c.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (i) insert  “or” ;

29.c.ii

omit the “or” at the end of sub-paragraph (ii);

29.c.iii

omit sub-paragraph (iii).

##### Offences under Part 2 of the Serious Crime Act 2007

30

30.1

Part 2 of the Serious Crime Act 2007 (encouraging or assisting crime) is
amended as follows.

30.2

After section 50 insert—

########### Extra-territorial offences: defence for intelligence services and armed forces

30.2.50A

30.2.50A.1

This section applies where a person is charged with an offence under this Part
by reason of a provision of Schedule 4 (extra-territorial jurisdiction).

30.2.50A.2

It is a defence for the person to show that their act was necessary for—

30.2.50A.2.a

the proper exercise of a function of an intelligence service, or

30.2.50A.2.b

the proper exercise of a function of the armed forces relating to
intelligence.

30.2.50A.3

A person is taken to have shown that their act was so necessary if—

30.2.50A.3.a

sufficient evidence of that fact is adduced to raise an issue with respect to
it, and

30.2.50A.3.b

the contrary is not proved beyond reasonable doubt.

30.2.50A.4

The head of each intelligence service must ensure that the service has in
place arrangements designed to ensure that acts of a member of the service to
which a provision of Schedule 4 applies are necessary for the proper exercise
of a function of the service.

30.2.50A.5

The Defence Council must ensure that the armed forces have in place
arrangements designed to ensure that acts of—

30.2.50A.5.a

a member of the armed forces, or

30.2.50A.5.b

a civilian subject to service discipline when working in support of a member
of the armed forces,

to which a provision of Schedule 4 applies are necessary for the proper
exercise of a function of the armed forces relating to intelligence.

30.2.50A.6

The arrangements which must be in place by virtue of subsection  (4)  or  (5)
must be arrangements which the Secretary of State considers to be
satisfactory.

30.2.50A.7

In this section—

            “ armed forces ” means His Majesty’s forces (within the meaning of
the Armed Forces Act 2006);
“ civilian subject to service discipline ” has the same meaning as in the
Armed Forces Act 2006;
“ GCHQ ” has the meaning given by section 3(3) of the Intelligence Services
Act 1994;
“ head ” means—
in relation to the Security Service, the Director General of the Security
Service,
in relation to the Secret Intelligence Service, the Chief of the Secret
Intelligence Service, and
in relation to GCHQ, the Director of GCHQ;
“ intelligence service ” means the Security Service, the Secret Intelligence
Service or GCHQ.

30.3

For the heading before section 50 substitute  “Defences” .

#### Foreign power condition and foreign power threat activity

##### The foreign power condition

31

31.1

For the purposes of this Part the foreign power condition is met in relation
to a person’s conduct if—

31.1.a

the conduct in question, or a course of conduct of which it forms part, is
carried out for or on behalf of a foreign power, and

31.1.b

the person knows, or having regard to other matters known to them ought
reasonably to know, that to be the case.

31.2

The conduct in question, or a course of conduct of which it forms part, is in
particular to be treated as carried out for or on behalf of a foreign power
if—

31.2.a

it is instigated by a foreign power,

31.2.b

it is under the direction or control of a foreign power,

31.2.c

it is carried out with financial or other assistance provided by a foreign
power for that purpose, or

31.2.d

it is carried out in collaboration with, or with the agreement of, a foreign
power.

31.3

Subsections (1) (a)  and  (2)  may be satisfied by a direct or indirect
relationship between the conduct, or the course of conduct, and the foreign
power (for example, there may be an indirect relationship through one or more
companies).

31.4

A person’s conduct may form part of a course of conduct engaged in by the
person alone, or by the person and one or more other persons.

31.5

The foreign power condition is also met in relation to a person’s conduct if
the person intends the conduct in question to benefit a foreign power.

31.6

For the purposes of  subsection (5)  it is not necessary to identify a
particular foreign power.

31.7

The foreign power condition may be met in relation to the conduct of a person
who holds office in or under, or is an employee or other member of staff of, a
foreign power, as it may be met in relation to the conduct of any other
person.

##### Meaning of “foreign power”

32

32.1

In this Part “ foreign power ” means—

32.1.a

the sovereign or other head of a foreign State in their public capacity,

32.1.b

a foreign government, or part of a foreign government,

32.1.c

an agency or authority of a foreign government, or of part of a foreign
government,

32.1.d

an authority responsible for administering the affairs of an area within a
foreign country or territory, or persons exercising the functions of such an
authority, or

32.1.e

a political party which is a governing political party of a foreign
government.

32.2

A political party is a governing political party of a foreign government if
persons holding political or official posts in the foreign government or part
of the foreign government—

32.2.a

hold those posts as a result of, or in the course of, their membership of the
party, or

32.2.b

in exercising the functions of those posts, are subject to the direction or
control of, or significantly influenced by, the party.

32.3

Subsection (1) (e)  does not include a political party which is—

32.3.a

a governing political party of the government of the Republic of Ireland, and

32.3.b

a party registered under Part 2 of the Political Parties, Elections and
Referendums Act 2000.

32.4

In  this section —

                                    “ foreign country or territory ” means a
country or territory outside the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, the Isle
of Man or the British Overseas Territories;
“ foreign government ” means the government of a foreign country or territory;
a “ government ” includes persons exercising the functions of a government;
“ territory ” includes the constituent territories of a federal State.

##### Foreign power threat activity and involvement in that activity

33

33.1

In this Part references to foreign power threat activity and to involvement in
foreign power threat activity are to one or more of the following—

33.1.a

the commission, preparation or instigation of acts or threats within
subsection (3) ;

33.1.b

conduct which facilitates (or is intended to facilitate) conduct falling
within  paragraph (a) ;

33.1.c

conduct which gives support or assistance to a person (“ P ”), where the
person who engages in the conduct—

33.1.c.i

knows or believes P to be involved in, and

33.1.c.ii

engages in the conduct for the purpose of giving support or assistance to,

conduct falling within paragraph (a).

33.2

It is immaterial whether the activity within  subsection (1)  relates to
specific acts or threats within  subsection (3) , or to acts or threats within
that subsection in general.

33.3

References to acts or threats within  this subsection  are to—

33.3.a

acts which constitute an offence under—

33.3.a.i

section 1  (obtaining or disclosing protected information);

33.3.a.ii

section 2  (obtaining or disclosing trade secrets);

33.3.a.iii

section 3  (assisting a foreign intelligence service);

33.3.a.iv

section 4  (entering etc. a prohibited place for a purpose prejudicial to the
UK);

33.3.a.v

section 12  (sabotage);

33.3.a.vi

section  13  (foreign interference: general);

33.3.a.vii

section  17 (1)  (obtaining material benefits from a foreign intelligence
service);

33.3.b

acts within  subsection (4)  in relation to which the foreign power condition
is met;

33.3.c

threats to carry out acts within  subsection (4) , where the foreign power
condition is met in relation to the threats.

33.4

Acts are within  this subsection  if they—

33.4.a

involve serious violence against another person,

33.4.b

endanger the life of another person, or

33.4.c

create a serious risk to the health or safety of the public or a section of
the public.

#### Supplementary provision

##### Interpretation

34

34.1

In  this Part —

                                    “ conduct ” includes omissions and
statements;
“ enactment ” includes—
an enactment comprised in subordinate legislation (within the meaning of the
Interpretation Act 1978);
an enactment comprised in, or in an instrument made under, a Measure or Act of
Senedd Cymru;
an enactment comprised in, or in an instrument made under, an Act of the
Scottish Parliament;
an enactment comprised in, or in an instrument made under, Northern Ireland
legislation;
retained direct EU legislation;
“ foreign power ” has the meaning given by section  32 ;
“ the foreign power condition ” has the meaning given by section  31 ;
“ foreign power threat activity ” and “ involvement ”, in relation to such
activity, have the meaning given by section  33 ;
“ information ” includes information about tactics, techniques and procedures;
“ the maximum term for summary offences ” means—
in relation to an offence committed before the time when section 281(5) of the
Criminal Justice Act 2003 comes into force, 6 months;
in relation to an offence committed after that time, 51 weeks.

34.2

In  this Part  references to a part of the United Kingdom are references to—

34.2.a

England and Wales,

34.2.b

Scotland, or

34.2.c

Northern Ireland.

##### Offences by bodies corporate etc

35

35.1

If an offence under this Part is committed by a body—

35.1.a

with the consent or connivance of an officer of the body, or

35.1.b

due to any neglect on the part of such an officer,

the officer, as well as the body, is guilty of the offence and liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly.

35.2

In this section—

                                    “ body ” means a body corporate, a
partnership or an unincorporated association other than a partnership;
“ officer of a body ”—
in relation to a body corporate, means a director, member of the committee of
management, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar officer of
the body, or a person purporting to act in any such capacity;
in relation to a partnership, means a partner or person purporting to act as a
partner;
in relation to an unincorporated association other than a partnership, means a
person who is concerned in the management or control of the body or purports
to act in the capacity of a person so concerned.

35.3

In  subsection (2)  “ director ” includes—

35.3.a

a person occupying in relation to a body corporate the position of a director
(by whatever name called),

35.3.b

a person in accordance with whose directions or instructions (not being advice
given in a professional capacity) the directors of that body are accustomed to
act, and

35.3.c

a person who has an interest or right in, or in relation to, the body
corporate that (whether alone or together with other interests or rights held
by the person) enables the person materially to influence the policy of the
body corporate.

35.4

If the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its members,  subsection (1)
applies in relation to the acts and defaults of a member in connection with
the member's functions of management as if the member were a director of the
body.

35.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide for the modification of any
provision of this section in its application to a body corporate or
unincorporated association formed or recognised under the law of a country or
territory outside the United Kingdom.

##### Offences committed outside the United Kingdom

36

36.1

Where an offence under this Part may be committed by conduct taking place
outside the United Kingdom, it may be so committed—

36.1.a

in the case of conduct by an individual, whatever the nationality of the
individual, and

36.1.b

in the case of conduct by a person other than an individual, regardless of
whether the body corporate or unincorporated association is formed or
recognised under the law of a country or territory outside the United Kingdom.

36.2

Subsection (1)  is subject to sections  3 (6)  and  17 (6)  (commission of
offences under sections  3  and  17  by conduct outside the United Kingdom).

36.3

Where an offence under this Part is committed outside the United Kingdom—

36.3.a

proceedings for the offence may be taken at any place in the United Kingdom,
and

36.3.b

the offence may for all incidental purposes be treated as having been
committed at any such place.

36.4

In the application of subsection  (3)  to Scotland, any such proceedings
against a person may be taken—

36.4.a

in any sheriff court district in which the person is apprehended or is in
custody, or

36.4.b

in such sheriff court district as the Lord Advocate may determine.

36.5

“Sheriff court district”  is to be read in accordance with the Criminal
Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 (see section 307(1) of that Act).

##### Consents to prosecutions

37

37.1

This section applies to offences under this Part, except offences under—

37.1.a

section  5  (unauthorised entry to a prohibited place);

37.1.b

section  6  (prohibited place: failure to comply with order of constable);

37.1.c

section 11  (cordoned area: failure to comply with order of constable);

37.1.d

Schedule 2  (powers of entry, search and seizure);

37.1.e

Schedule  3  (disclosure orders);

37.1.f

Schedule  4  (customer information orders).

37.2

Proceedings for an offence to which this section applies may be instituted—

37.2.a

in England and Wales, only with the consent of the Attorney General;

37.2.b

in Northern Ireland, only with the consent of the Advocate General for
Northern Ireland.

##### Power to exclude the public from proceedings

38

If it is necessary in the interests of national security, a court may exclude
the public from—

38.a

any part of proceedings for an offence under this Part, or

38.b

any part of proceedings relating to section 69A of the Sentencing Act 2020 (as
inserted by section  19 ) or to section  20  or  21 ,

except for the passing of sentence.

### Prevention and investigation measures

#### Imposition of prevention and investigation measures

##### Power to impose prevention and investigation measures

39

39.1

The Secretary of State may by notice (a “ Part 2  notice”) impose specified
prevention and investigation measures on an individual if conditions A to E in
section 40  are met.

39.2

In this Part “ prevention and investigation measures ” means requirements,
restrictions and other provision which may be made in relation to an
individual by virtue of  Schedule 7 .

39.3

In  this section  and  Part 1  of  Schedule 7  “ specified ” means specified
in the  Part 2  notice.

39.4

The Secretary of State must publish factors that the Secretary of State
considers are appropriate to take into account when deciding whether to impose
restrictions on an individual by virtue of  paragraph 2  of  Schedule 7
(travel measure).

##### Conditions A to E

40

40.1

Condition A is that the Secretary of State reasonably believes that the
individual is, or has been, involved in foreign power threat activity.

40.2

Condition B is that some or all of the foreign power threat activity in which
the individual is, or has been, involved is new foreign power threat activity.

40.3

Condition C is that the Secretary of State reasonably considers that it is
necessary, for purposes connected with protecting the United Kingdom from the
risk of acts or threats within section  33 (3) , for prevention and
investigation measures to be imposed on the individual.

40.4

Condition D is that the Secretary of State reasonably considers that it is
necessary, for purposes connected with preventing or restricting the
individual's involvement in foreign power threat activity, for the prevention
and investigation measures specified in the notice to be imposed on the
individual.

40.5

Condition E is that—

40.5.a

the court gives the Secretary of State permission under  section 42 , or

40.5.b

the Secretary of State reasonably considers that the urgency of the case
requires prevention and investigation measures to be imposed without obtaining
such permission.

40.6

In relation to prevention and investigation measures under  paragraph 1  of
Schedule 7  (residence measure), conditions A, B and D (and  subsection (7) )
apply as if the references to foreign power threat activity were to foreign
power threat activity which relates to acts or threats within section  33 (3)
(b)  or  (c) .

40.7

In  this section  “ new foreign power threat activity ” means—

40.7.a

if no  Part 2  notice relating to the individual has ever been in force,
foreign power threat activity occurring at any time;

40.7.b

if only one  Part 2  notice relating to the individual has ever been in force,
foreign power threat activity occurring after that notice came into force;

40.7.c

if two or more  Part 2  notices relating to the individual have been in force,
foreign power threat activity occurring after such a notice came into force
most recently.

40.8

In this section references to foreign power threat activity, and to an
individual’s involvement in such activity, include foreign power threat
activity, and an individual’s involvement in such activity, occurring before
section  39  comes into force.

#### Five year limit on imposition of measures

##### Five year limit for 

41

41.1

A  Part 2  notice—

41.1.a

comes into force when the notice is served on the individual or, if later, at
the time specified for this purpose in the notice, and

41.1.b

is in force for the period of one year.

41.2

The Secretary of State may by notice extend a  Part 2  notice for a period of
one year beginning when the  Part 2  notice would otherwise expire.

41.3

A  Part 2  notice—

41.3.a

may be extended under  subsection (2)  only if conditions A, C and D are met,
and

41.3.b

may be so extended on up to four occasions.

41.4

This section  is subject, in particular, to sections  49  (revocation and
revival of  Part 2  notices) and  50  (replacement of  Part 2  notice that is
quashed etc).

#### Court scrutiny of imposition of measures

##### Prior permission of the court

42

42.1

This section  applies if the Secretary of State—

42.1.a

makes the relevant decisions in relation to an individual, and

42.1.b

makes an application to the court for permission to impose measures on the
individual.

42.2

The application must set out a draft of the proposed  Part 2  notice.

42.3

The function of the court on the application is—

42.3.a

to determine whether the relevant decisions of the Secretary of State are
obviously flawed, and

42.3.b

to determine whether to give permission to impose measures on the individual
and (where applicable) whether to exercise the power of direction under
subsection (9) .

42.4

The court may consider the application—

42.4.a

in the absence of the individual,

42.4.b

without the individual having been notified of the application, and

42.4.c

without the individual having been given an opportunity (if the individual was
aware of the application) of making any representations to the court.

42.5

But that does not limit the matters about which rules of court may be made.

42.6

In determining the application, the court must apply the principles applicable
on an application for judicial review.

42.7

In a case where the court determines that a decision of the Secretary of State
that condition A, condition B or condition C is met is obviously flawed, the
court may not give permission under  this section .

42.8

In any other case, the court may give permission under  this section .

42.9

If the court determines that the Secretary of State's decision that condition
D is met is obviously flawed, the court may (in addition to giving permission
under  subsection (8) ) give directions to the Secretary of State in relation
to the measures to be imposed on the individual.

42.10

In  this section  “ relevant decisions ” means the decisions that the
following conditions are met—

42.10.a

condition A,

42.10.b

condition B,

42.10.c

condition C, and

42.10.d

condition D.

##### Urgent cases: reference to the court etc

43

Schedule 8  makes provision about references to the court in urgent cases.

##### Directions hearing

44

44.1

This section  applies if the court—

44.1.a

gives permission under  section 42  for measures to be imposed on an
individual, or

44.1.b

confirms under  paragraph 4 (3)  of  Schedule 8  (whether or not subject to
paragraph 4(2) of that Schedule) a  Part 2  notice which imposes measures on
an individual.

44.2

The court must, at the hearing where it gives the permission or confirms the
notice, give directions for a further hearing (a “directions hearing”)—

44.2.a

which, unless the court otherwise directs (whether in those directions or
subsequently), is to be held within the period of 7 days beginning with the
relevant day, and

44.2.b

which the individual is to have the opportunity to attend.

44.3

In a case where  this section  applies because the court gives permission
under  section 42 , directions given under  subsection (2)  may not be served
on the individual unless the  Part 2  notice has been served on that
individual.

44.4

At the directions hearing, the court must give directions for a further
hearing (a “review hearing”) in relation to the imposition of measures on the
individual.

44.5

Directions under  subsection (4)  must provide for the review hearing to be
held as soon as reasonably practicable.

44.6

In  this section  “ relevant day ” means—

44.6.a

in a case falling within  subsection (1) (a) , the day on which the  Part 2
notice imposing the measures is served on the individual;

44.6.b

in a case falling within  subsection (1) (b) , the day on which the court
confirms the  Part 2  notice.

##### Review hearing

45

45.1

On a review hearing held in compliance with directions under  section 44 (4) ,
the function of the court is to review the decisions of the Secretary of State
that the relevant conditions were met and continue to be met.

45.2

In doing so, the court must apply the principles applicable on an application
for judicial review.

45.3

The court—

45.3.a

must discontinue the review hearing if the individual requests the court to do
so, and

45.3.b

may discontinue the review hearing in any other circumstances.

45.4

The court may not discontinue the review hearing in accordance with
subsection (3) (b)  without giving the Secretary of State and the individual
the opportunity to make representations.

45.5

The court has the following powers (and only those powers) on a review
hearing—

45.5.a

power to quash the  Part 2  notice;

45.5.b

power to quash measures specified in the  Part 2  notice;

45.5.c

power to give directions to the Secretary of State for, or in relation to—

45.5.c.i

the revocation of the  Part 2  notice, or

45.5.c.ii

the variation of measures specified in the  Part 2  notice.

45.6

If the court does not exercise any of its powers under  subsection (5) , the
court must decide that the  Part 2  notice is to continue in force.

45.7

If the court exercises a power under  subsection (5) (b)  or  (c) (ii) , the
court must decide that the  Part 2  notice is to continue in force subject to
that exercise of that power.

45.8

In  this section  “ relevant conditions ” means—

45.8.a

condition A,

45.8.b

condition B,

45.8.c

condition C, and

45.8.d

condition D.

#### Consultation requirements

##### Criminal investigations into foreign power threat activity

46

46.1

The Secretary of State must consult the chief officer of the appropriate
police force about the matter mentioned in  subsection (2)  before—

46.1.a

making an application under  section 42  for permission to impose measures on
an individual, or

46.1.b

imposing measures on an individual in a case to which  section 40 (5) (b)
applies (urgency of the case requires measures to be imposed without obtaining
the permission of the court).

46.2

The matter is whether there is evidence available that could realistically be
used for the purposes of prosecuting the individual for an offence—

46.2.a

within  section 33 (3) (a) , or

46.2.b

relating to acts or threats within  section 33 (3) (b)  or  (c) .

46.3

The “ appropriate police force ” means the police force—

46.3.a

that is investigating the commission of any such offence by the individual, or

46.3.b

by which it appears to the Secretary of State that the commission of any such
offence by the individual would fall to be investigated.

46.4

If the Secretary of State serves a  Part 2  notice on an individual, the
Secretary of State must inform the chief officer of the appropriate police
force—

46.4.a

that the  Part 2  notice has been served, and

46.4.b

that the chief officer must act in accordance with the duty under  subsection
(5) .

46.5

After being informed of the matters mentioned in  subsection (4) , the chief
officer must—

46.5.a

secure that the investigation of the individual's conduct, with a view to a
prosecution of the individual for an offence—

46.5.a.i

within  section 33 (3) (a) , or

46.5.a.ii

relating to acts or threats within  section 33 (3) (b)  or  (c) ,

is kept under review throughout the period the  Part 2  notice is in force,
and

46.5.b

report to the Secretary of State on the review carried out under  paragraph
(a) .

46.6

The chief officer must consult the relevant prosecuting authority before
responding to consultation under  subsection (1) .

46.7

The chief officer must also, to the extent that the chief officer considers it
appropriate to do so, consult the relevant prosecuting authority in carrying
out the duty under  subsection (5) (a) .

46.8

The “relevant prosecuting authority” is—

46.8.a

in the case of offences that would be likely to be prosecuted in England and
Wales, the Director of Public Prosecutions;

46.8.b

in the case of offences that would be likely to be prosecuted in Scotland, the
Lord Advocate;

46.8.c

in the case of offences that would be likely to be prosecuted in Northern
Ireland, the Director of Public Prosecutions for Northern Ireland.

46.9

The duty to consult under  subsection (1)  or  (6)  may be satisfied by
consultation that took place wholly or partly before the passing of this Act.

46.10

In  this section —

                                    “ chief officer ”—
in relation to a police force maintained for a police area in England and
Wales, means the chief officer of police of that force;
in relation to the Police Service of Scotland, means the chief constable of
that Service;
in relation to the Police Service of Northern Ireland, means the Chief
Constable of that Service;
in relation to the National Crime Agency, means the Director General of the
National Crime Agency;
“ police force ” means—
a police force maintained for a police area in England and Wales;
the Police Service of Scotland;
the Police Service of Northern Ireland;
the National Crime Agency.

#### Review of ongoing necessity

##### Review of ongoing necessity

47

During the period that a  Part 2  notice is in force, the Secretary of State
must keep under review whether conditions C and D are met.

#### Changes concerning 

##### Variation of measures

48

48.1

The Secretary of State may by notice (a “ variation notice ”) vary measures
specified in a  Part 2  notice if—

48.1.a

the variation consists of the relaxation or removal of measures,

48.1.b

the variation is made with the consent of the individual, or

48.1.c

the Secretary of State reasonably considers that the variation is necessary
for purposes connected with preventing or restricting the individual's
involvement in foreign power threat activity.

48.2

The Secretary of State may by variation notice vary a relocation measure so as
to substitute a different specified residence if the Secretary of State
reasonably considers that—

48.2.a

the variation is necessary for reasons connected with the efficient and
effective use of resources in relation to the individual, and

48.2.b

the relocation measure (as varied) remains necessary for purposes connected
with preventing or restricting the individual’s involvement in foreign power
threat activity which relates to acts or threats within  section 33 (3) (b)
or  (c) .

48.3

A “relocation measure” is a measure under  paragraph 1 (2)  of  Schedule 7
which requires the individual to reside at a specified residence within
paragraph  1 (3) (b)  of that Schedule (requirement to reside at premises
specified by Secretary of State other than individual's own residence).

48.4

The individual to whom a  Part 2  notice relates may make an application to
the Secretary of State for the variation of measures specified in the notice.

48.5

The Secretary of State must consider an application made under  subsection (4)
.

48.6

An application under  subsection (4)  must be made in writing.

48.7

The Secretary of State may by notice request the provision, within such period
of time as the notice may specify, of further information from the individual
in connection with an application under  subsection (4) .

48.8

The Secretary of State is not required to consider an application further
unless any information requested under  subsection (7)  is provided in
accordance with the notice mentioned in that subsection.

48.9

A variation under  subsection (1)  or  (2)  takes effect when the variation
notice is served or, if later, at the time specified for this purpose in the
variation notice.

48.10

The power under  subsection (1)  or  (2)  is exercisable whether or not an
application has been made under  subsection (4) .

48.11

In a case where a  Part 2  notice—

48.11.a

has expired as mentioned in  section 49 (6) (a) , or

48.11.b

has been revoked,

the power under  subsection (1)  or  (2)  may (in particular) be exercised in
relation to the  Part 2  notice before any revival of the  Part 2  notice
under  section 49 (6)  so as to take effect at the time that the  Part 2
notice comes back into force on its revival.

48.12

In such a case, the question of whether condition D is met is to be determined
for the purposes of  section 49 (6)  by reference to the measures specified in
the  Part 2  notice as they would be after the exercise of the power under
subsection (1)  or  (2) .

48.13

Subsection (2)  does not limit the power under  subsection (1) .

##### Revocation and revival of 

49

49.1

The Secretary of State may by notice (a “revocation notice”) revoke a  Part 2
notice at any time.

49.2

The revocation of a  Part 2  notice takes effect when the revocation notice is
served or, if different, at the time specified for this purpose in the
revocation notice.

49.3

The individual to whom a  Part 2  notice relates may make an application to
the Secretary of State for the revocation of the  Part 2  notice.

49.4

The Secretary of State must consider an application made under  subsection (3)
.

49.5

The power under  subsection (1)  is exercisable whether or not an application
has been made under  subsection (3) .

49.6

The Secretary of State may by notice (a “revival notice”) at any time revive a
Part 2  notice which—

49.6.a

has expired—

49.6.a.i

without being extended under  section 41 (2) , or

49.6.a.ii

having been extended under  section 41 (2)  on fewer than four occasions, or

49.6.b

has been revoked,

if conditions A, C and D are met.

49.7

The power of revival may be exercised—

49.7.a

under  subsection (6) (a)  or  (b)  whether or not the  Part 2  notice has
previously been revoked and revived, and

49.7.b

under  subsection (6) (b)  whether or not the  Part 2  notice has been
extended under  section 41 (2)  (and regardless of how many times it has been
so extended).

49.8

But the power of revival under  subsection (6) (b)  may not be exercised to
revive a  Part 2  notice which the Secretary of State was required to revoke
by directions given by the court in relevant proceedings.

49.9

A  Part 2  notice which is revived—

49.9.a

comes back into force when the revival notice is served or, if later, at the
time specified for this purpose in the revival notice,

49.9.b

is in force—

49.9.b.i

for the period of one year (in a case where the revived notice had expired),
or

49.9.b.ii

for the period of time for which the  Part 2  notice would have continued in
force if it had not been revoked (in a case where the revived notice had been
revoked), and

49.9.c

is treated as having been extended under  section 41 (2)  on the same number
of occasions (if any) as on which the revived notice had been so extended.

##### Replacement of a 

50

50.1

This section  applies if—

50.1.a

a  Part 2  notice, the extension of a  Part 2  notice, or the revival of a
Part 2  notice, is quashed in relevant proceedings, or

50.1.b

a  Part 2  notice is revoked by the Secretary of State in compliance with
directions given by the court in relevant proceedings.

50.2

The replacement  Part 2  notice is to be in force for the period of time for
which the overturned notice would have continued in force but for the quashing
or revocation.

50.3

The replacement  Part 2  notice is to be treated as having been extended under
section 41 (2)  on the same number of occasions (if any) as on which the
overturned notice had been so extended (including any extension that was
quashed).

50.4

Foreign power threat activity is to be treated as new foreign power threat
activity in relation to the imposition of measures by the replacement  Part 2
notice if it was new foreign power threat activity in relation to the
imposition of measures by the overturned notice.

50.5

Foreign power threat activity that occurs after the coming into force of the
overturned notice does not cease to be new foreign power threat activity by
virtue of the coming into force of the replacement  Part 2  notice.

50.6

Subsections (2)  to  (5)  do not apply to the replacement notice if—

50.6.a

some or all of the foreign power threat activity occurred after the overturned
notice came into force, and

50.6.b

the Secretary of State determines that those subsections should not apply to
that notice.

50.7

In  this section —

                                    “ new foreign power threat activity ” has
the same meaning as in  section 40 ;
“ overturned notice ” means the  Part 2  notice to which the quashing or
revocation referred to in  subsection (1)  relates;
“ replacement Part 2 notice ” means the first  Part 2  notice to impose
measures on the individual to whom the overturned notice relates after the
quashing or revocation referred to in  subsection (1) .

##### Other provision relating to the quashing of 

51

51.1

A power in relevant proceedings to quash a  Part 2  notice, the extension of a
Part 2  notice, the revival of a  Part 2  notice, or measures specified in a
Part 2  notice, includes—

51.1.a

in England and Wales or Northern Ireland, power to stay the quashing for a
specified time, or pending an appeal or further appeal against the decision to
quash; or

51.1.b

in Scotland, power to determine that the quashing is of no effect for a
specified time or pending such an appeal or further appeal.

51.2

A decision in relevant proceedings to quash measures specified in a  Part 2
notice, or (except as provided in  section 50 ) a decision in relevant
proceedings to quash, or to give directions to the Secretary of State in
relation to, a  Part 2  notice, the extension of a  Part 2  notice, or the
revival of a  Part 2  notice, does not prevent the Secretary of State—

51.2.a

from exercising any power under this Act to impose measures (whether or not to
the same or similar effect as measures to which the decision relates), or

51.2.b

from relying, in whole or in part, on any matters for the purpose of so
exercising such a power (whether or not the matters were relied on in
exercising powers under this Act in relation to measures or the  Part 2
notice to which the decision relates).

51.3

Schedule 9  makes provision about appeals against convictions.

#### Appeals and court proceedings

##### Appeals

52

52.1

If the Secretary of State extends or revives a  Part 2  notice (see  section
41 (2)  or  49 (6) )—

52.1.a

the individual to whom the  Part 2  notice relates may appeal to the court
against the extension or revival, and

52.1.b

the function of the court on such an appeal is to review the Secretary of
State's decisions that conditions A, C and D were met and continue to be met.

52.2

If the Secretary of State varies measures specified in a  Part 2  notice (and
the variation does not consist of the relaxation or removal of measures)
without the consent of the individual to whom the  Part 2  notice relates—

52.2.a

the individual may appeal to the court against the variation, and

52.2.b

the function of the court on such an appeal is to review the Secretary of
State’s decisions that the variation was necessary, and continues to be
necessary, for purposes connected with preventing or restricting involvement
by the individual in foreign power threat activity.

52.3

If the individual to whom a  Part 2  notice relates makes an application to
the Secretary of State for the variation of measures specified in the  Part 2
notice (see  section 48 (4) )—

52.3.a

the individual may appeal to the court against any decision by the Secretary
of State on the application, and

52.3.b

the function of the court on such an appeal is to review the Secretary of
State’s decisions that the measures to which the application relates were
necessary, and continue to be necessary, for purposes connected with
preventing or restricting involvement by the individual in foreign power
threat activity.

52.4

If the individual to whom a  Part 2  notice relates makes an application to
the Secretary of State for the revocation of the notice (see  section 49 (3)
)—

52.4.a

the individual may appeal to the court against any decision by the Secretary
of State on the application, and

52.4.b

the function of the court on such an appeal is to review the Secretary of
State’s decisions that conditions A, C and D were met and continue to be met.

52.5

If the individual to whom a  Part 2  notice relates makes an application to
the Secretary of State for permission—

52.5.a

the individual may appeal to the court against any decision by the Secretary
of State on the application (including any decision about conditions to which
permission is subject), and

52.5.b

the function of the court on such an appeal is to review the decision.

52.6

In determining the matters mentioned in  subsections (1)  to  (5)  the court
must apply the principles applicable on an application for judicial review.

52.7

The only powers of the court on an appeal under  this section  are—

52.7.a

power to quash the extension or revival of the  Part 2  notice;

52.7.b

power to quash measures specified in the  Part 2  notice;

52.7.c

power to give directions to the Secretary of State for, or in relation to—

52.7.c.i

the revocation of the  Part 2  notice, or

52.7.c.ii

the variation of measures specified in the  Part 2  notice;

52.7.d

power to give directions to the Secretary of State in relation to permission
or conditions to which permission is subject.

52.8

If the court does not exercise any of its powers under  subsection (7) , it
must dismiss the appeal.

52.9

In  this section  “ permission ” means permission for the purposes of measures
specified in a  Part 2  notice (see, in particular,  paragraph 17  of
Schedule 7 ).

##### Jurisdiction in relation to decisions under this Part

53

53.1

Decisions relating to  Part 2  notices are not to be questioned in any legal
proceedings other than—

53.1.a

proceedings in the court, or

53.1.b

proceedings on appeal from such proceedings.

53.2

The court is the appropriate tribunal for the purposes of section 7 of the
Human Rights Act 1998 in relation to proceedings all or any part of which call
a decision relating to a  Part 2  notice into question.

53.3

In this Part “decision relating to a  Part 2  notice” means—

53.3.a

a decision made by the Secretary of State in exercise or performance of any
power or duty under any of  sections 39  to  51  or under  Schedule 7  or
Schedule 8 ;

53.3.b

a decision made by the Secretary of State for the purposes of, or in
connection with, the exercise or performance of any such power or duty;

53.3.c

a decision by a constable to give a direction by virtue of paragraph  4  of
Schedule 7  (movement directions measure) or paragraph  11 (1) (b)  of that
Schedule (reporting measure);

53.3.d

a decision by a polygraph operator to give a direction by virtue of paragraph
12 (1) (c)  of  Schedule 7 ;

53.3.e

a decision by a person to give a direction by virtue of  paragraph 15 (2) (d)
of  Schedule 7  (monitoring measure).

##### Proceedings relating to measures

54

54.1

No appeal lies from any determination of the court in relevant proceedings,
except on a question of law.

54.2

No appeal by any person other than the Secretary of State lies from any
determination—

54.2.a

on an application for permission under  section 42 , or

54.2.b

on a reference under  Schedule 8 .

54.3

Schedule 10  makes provision about proceedings relating to measures.

#### Other safeguards

##### Reports on exercise of powers under this Part

55

55.1

The Secretary of State must—

55.1.a

prepare a report about the exercise of the powers mentioned in  subsection (2)
during each period of 3 months beginning with the month in which section  39
comes into force, and

55.1.b

lay a copy of each such report before Parliament.

55.2

The powers referred to in  subsection (1)  are the powers of the Secretary of
State under this Part—

55.2.a

to impose measures on an individual by a  Part 2  notice;

55.2.b

to extend a  Part 2  notice under  section 41 (2) ;

55.2.c

to vary a  Part 2  notice under  section 48 ;

55.2.d

to revoke a  Part 2  notice under  section 49 (1) ;

55.2.e

to revive a  Part 2  notice under  section 49 (6) .

55.3

The duty under  subsection (1)  in relation to the preparation and laying of a
report must be carried out as soon as reasonably practicable after the end of
the 3 month period to which the report relates.

#### Enforcement

##### Offence

56

56.1

An individual commits an offence if—

56.1.a

a  Part 2  notice is in force in relation to the individual, and

56.1.b

the individual contravenes without reasonable excuse any measure specified in
the notice.

56.2

Where an individual—

56.2.a

is subject to a measure specified under  paragraph 2  of  Schedule 7  (a
“travel measure”), and

56.2.b

leaves the United Kingdom or travels outside the United Kingdom,

subsection (1) (b)  has effect, in relation to that act, with the omission of
the words “without reasonable excuse”.

56.3

If the individual has the permission of the Secretary of State by virtue of
Schedule 7  for an act which would, without that permission, contravene a
measure specified in the  Part 2  notice, the individual contravenes that
measure by virtue of that act if the act is not in accordance with the terms
of the permission.

56.4

An individual who commits an offence under  subsection (1)  is liable—

56.4.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years
or to a fine (or both);

56.4.b

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court or to a fine (or both);

56.4.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

56.4.d

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both).

56.5

Where an individual commits an offence under  subsection (1)  by contravening
a travel measure,  subsection (4) (a)  has effect as if “10 years” were
substituted for “5 years”.

56.6

Where an individual is convicted by or before a court of an offence under
subsection (1) , it is not open to that court to make in respect of the
offence—

56.6.a

an order under section 80 of the Sentencing Code (conditional discharge),

56.6.b

an order under section 227A of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995
(community payback orders), or

56.6.c

an order under Article 4(1)(b) of the Criminal Justice (Northern Ireland)
Order 1996 ( S.I. 1996/3160 (N.I. 24) ) (conditional discharge).

##### Powers of entry etc

57

Schedule 11  makes provision about powers of entry, search, seizure and
retention.

##### Fingerprints and samples

58

Schedule 12  makes provision about fingerprints and samples.

#### Supplementary provisions

##### Notices

59

59.1

In a case where the Secretary of State serves a  Part 2  notice, a revival
notice or an extension notice on an individual, the Secretary of State must,
by a further notice, give the following information to the individual—

59.1.a

the period for which the  Part 2  notice will be in force,

59.1.b

the day on which the  Part 2  notice comes, or came, into force, and

59.1.c

the day on which the  Part 2  notice will expire,

and, in the case of a revival or extension notice, “ Part 2  notice” means the
Part 2  notice which is revived or extended by that notice.

59.2

An individual is not bound by—

59.2.a

a  Part 2  notice,

59.2.b

a revival notice, or

59.2.c

a variation notice insofar as it gives notice of a variation that is neither a
relaxation or removal of measures, nor a variation with the individual's
consent,

unless the notice is served personally on the individual.

59.3

An individual is not bound by an extension notice unless the notice is—

59.3.a

served personally on the individual, and

59.3.b

so served before the  Part 2  notice to which it relates would otherwise
expire.

59.4

Any of the following notices must be served on the individual to whom the
notice relates—

59.4.a

a revocation notice;

59.4.b

a variation notice insofar as  subsection (2) (c)  does not apply to it;

59.4.c

a confirmation notice.

59.5

Any of the following notices may be proved by the production of a document
purporting to be certified by the Secretary of State as a true copy of the
notice—

59.5.a

a  Part 2  notice;

59.5.b

an extension notice;

59.5.c

a revocation notice;

59.5.d

a revival notice;

59.5.e

a variation notice;

59.5.f

a confirmation notice.

59.6

But that does not prevent the proof of such a notice in other ways.

59.7

In  this section —

                                    “ confirmation notice ” means a notice
given under  subsection (1) ;
“ extension notice ” means a notice under  section 41 (2) ;
“ revival notice ” has the same meaning as in  section 49 (6) ;
“ revocation notice ” has the same meaning as in  section 49 (1) ;
“ variation notice ” has the same meaning as in  section 48 (1) .

##### Contracts

60

The Secretary of State may enter into such contracts and other arrangements
with other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate for
securing their assistance in connection with any monitoring, by electronic or
other means, that the Secretary of State considers needs to be carried out in
connection with measures specified in  Part 2  notices.

##### Legal aid in relation to Part 2 notices

61

In Schedule 1 to the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act
2012 (civil legal services), in Part 1 (services), after paragraph 45A insert—

######### Foreign power threat activity prevention and investigation measures

61.45B

61.45B.1

Civil legal services provided to an individual in relation to a notice under
section 39 (1) of the National Security Act 2023 relating to the individual.

61.45B.2

Sub-paragraph (1) is subject to—

61.45B.2.a

the exclusions in Part 2 of this Schedule, with the exception of paragraph 18
of that Part, and

61.45B.2.b

the exclusion in Part 3 of this Schedule.

##### Interpretation etc

62

62.1

In  this Part —

                                    “ act ” and “conduct” include omissions
and statements;
“ condition A ”, “condition B”, “condition C”, “condition D” or “ condition E
” means that condition as set out in  section 40 ;
“ court ” means—
in the case of proceedings relating to an individual whose principal place of
residence is in Scotland, the Outer House of the Court of Session;
in the case of proceedings relating to an individual whose principal place of
residence is in Northern Ireland, the High Court in Northern Ireland;
in any other case, the High Court in England and Wales;
“ decision relating to a Part 2 notice ” has the meaning given in  section 53
;
“ enactment ” includes—
an enactment comprised in subordinate legislation (within the meaning of the
Interpretation Act 1978);
an enactment comprised in, or in an instrument made under, a Measure or Act of
Senedd Cymru;
an enactment comprised in, or in an instrument made under, an Act of the
Scottish Parliament;
an enactment comprised in, or in an instrument made under, Northern Ireland
legislation;
retained direct EU legislation;
“ foreign power threat activity ” and “ involvement ” (in relation to such
activity) have the same meaning as in  Part 1  (see section  33 );
“ measures ” means prevention and investigation measures (which has the
meaning given in  section 39 );
“ notice ” means a notice in writing;
“ Part 2 notice ” has the meaning given in section  39 (1) ;
“ relevant proceedings ” means—
proceedings on an application for permission under  section 42 ;
proceedings on a reference under  Schedule 8 ;
proceedings on a directions hearing held in accordance with directions under
section 44 (2) ;
proceedings on a review hearing held in accordance with directions under
section 44 (4) ;
proceedings on an appeal under  section 52 ;
proceedings by virtue of  section 53 (2) ;
proceedings on an application made by virtue of rules of court made under
paragraph 6  of  Schedule 10  (application for order requiring anonymity);
any other proceedings for questioning a decision relating to a  Part 2  notice
(including any claim for damages or other relief arising out of such a
decision).

62.2

In a case where—

62.2.a

a  Part 2  notice has come into force in relation to an individual, and

62.2.b

by virtue of the coming into force of that  Part 2  notice, foreign power
threat activity which occurred before the coming into force of that notice has
ceased to be new foreign power threat activity (within the meaning of  section
40 (7) ) in relation to that individual for the purposes of that section,

the Secretary of State is not prevented from taking account of that activity
for the purposes of the continued imposition, or subsequent imposition, of
measures on that individual.

62.3

For the purposes of the definition of “new foreign power threat activity” in
section 40 (7) , if a  Part 2  notice is revived under section  49 (6) , a
reference to the notice coming into force is a reference to it coming into
force by virtue of section  41 (1)  (and not to it coming back into force by
virtue of  section 49 (9) ).

62.4

For the purpose of determining what measures may be imposed on an individual,
it is immaterial whether the involvement in foreign power threat activity to
be prevented or restricted by the measures is connected with matters to which
the Secretary of State’s belief for the purpose of condition A relates.

This is subject to  section 40 (6) .

62.5

A failure by the Secretary of State to consider an application by an
individual for—

62.5.a

the revocation of a  Part 2  notice, or

62.5.b

the variation of measures specified in a  Part 2  notice,

is to be treated as a decision by the Secretary of State not to revoke, or not
to vary, the  Part 2  notice.

62.6

Subsections (2)  to  (5)  apply for the purposes of  this Part .

### Review of the operation of Parts 1 and 2 etc

#### Reviews: general

63

63.1

The Secretary of State must appoint a person (the “independent reviewer”) to
review the operation of—

63.1.a

Part 1, except  section 30 ;

63.1.b

Part 2;

63.1.c

Schedule 3 to the Counter-Terrorism and Border Security Act 2019, except the
functions of the Investigatory Powers Commissioner under Part 1 of that
Schedule.

63.2

The independent reviewer—

63.2.a

must carry out a review of the operation of those provisions for each calendar
year (an “annual review”), and

63.2.b

may carry out such other reviews of the operation of any of those provisions
as they consider appropriate.

63.3

An annual review must be completed as soon as reasonably practicable after the
calendar year to which it relates.

63.4

The independent reviewer must, by 31 January in each calendar year, inform the
Secretary of State what (if any) reviews under subsection  (2) (b)  they
intend to carry out in that year.

63.5

The independent reviewer must send to the Secretary of State a report on the
outcome of each review carried out under this section as soon as reasonably
practicable after completion of the review.

63.6

On receiving a report under this section, the Secretary of State must lay
before Parliament—

63.6.a

the report (but not any material removed under subsection  (7) ), and

63.6.b

a statement as to whether any material has been removed under that subsection.

63.7

The Secretary of State may, after consulting the independent reviewer, remove
from the report any material whose publication the Secretary of State thinks
would be contrary to the public interest, or prejudicial to—

63.7.a

national security,

63.7.b

the prevention or detection of crime,

63.7.c

the economic well-being of the United Kingdom, or

63.7.d

the continued discharge of the functions of any public authority whose
activities include activities that are subject to review by the independent
reviewer.

63.8

“ Public authority ” means a public authority within the meaning of section 6
of the Human Rights Act 1998, other than a court or tribunal.

63.9

The Secretary of State may pay to the independent reviewer—

63.9.a

expenses incurred in carrying out the functions of the reviewer under this
section, and

63.9.b

such allowances as the Secretary of State determines.

#### Reviews of detention under 

64

64.1

An annual review under  section 63 (2) (a)  must in particular consider
compliance with the relevant requirements in relation to persons detained
under section  27  by virtue of a warrant of further detention under  Part 6
of  Schedule 6 .

64.2

The relevant requirements are requirements imposed—

64.2.a

by or under Parts  1  to  5 , and  paragraph 45 , of  Schedule 6 ;

64.2.b

by any relevant code of practice under section 66 of the Police and Criminal
Evidence Act 1984 or Article 65 of the Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern
Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/1341 (N.I. 12) ).

64.3

The independent reviewer must ensure that a review is carried out into any
case where—

64.3.a

a person is detained under section  27  by virtue of a warrant of further
detention under  Part 6  of  Schedule 6 , and

64.3.b

the period specified in that warrant is further extended under  paragraph 44
of that Schedule to a time that is more than 14 days after the person’s arrest
under section  27 .

64.4

A review under subsection  (3)  may be carried out by the independent reviewer
or by another person.

64.5

The independent reviewer must ensure that a report on the outcome of a review
under subsection  (3)  is sent to the Secretary of State as soon as reasonably
practicable after completion of the review.

64.6

Section  63 (6)  to  (8)  applies to a report of a review under subsection
(3) .

64.7

The expenses mentioned in section  63 (9)  include any expenses incurred by
the independent reviewer in ensuring that another person carries out, and
reports on, a review under subsection  (3) .

64.8

“ Independent reviewer ” has the same meaning as in section  63 .

### Foreign activities and foreign influence registration scheme

#### Activities of specified persons

##### Requirement to register foreign activity arrangements

65

65.1

A “foreign activity arrangement” is an agreement or arrangement between a
person (“ P ”) and a specified person pursuant to which the specified person
directs P—

65.1.a

to carry out relevant activities in the United Kingdom, or

65.1.b

to arrange for relevant activities to be carried out in the United Kingdom.

65.2

In this section “relevant activities”—

65.2.a

if regulations under subsection  (3)  apply in relation to the specified
person, has the meaning given by the regulations, and

65.2.b

otherwise, means all activities.

65.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about activities
which are relevant activities for the purposes of this section, either in
relation to all specified persons or in relation to such specified persons as
the regulations may provide.

65.4

Where P makes a foreign activity arrangement, P must register the arrangement
with the Secretary of State before the end of the period of 10 days beginning
with the day on which P makes the arrangement.

65.5

P commits an offence if P—

65.5.a

fails to comply with  subsection (4) , and

65.5.b

knows, or having regard to other matters known to them ought reasonably to
know, that the arrangement in question is a foreign activity arrangement.

##### Meaning of “specified person”

66

66.1

“ Specified person ” means—

66.1.a

a foreign power specified by the Secretary of State in regulations;

66.1.b

a person, other than a foreign power, specified by the Secretary of State in
regulations.

66.2

The regulations may specify a person other than a foreign power only if—

66.2.a

the person is not an individual, and

66.2.b

the Secretary of State reasonably believes the person is controlled by a
foreign power.

66.3

Schedule 13  makes provision about when a person is controlled by a foreign
power.

66.4

The Secretary of State may make regulations specifying a foreign power or a
person other than a foreign power only if the Secretary of State considers it
reasonably necessary to do so to protect the safety or interests of the United
Kingdom.

66.5

Regulations specifying a foreign power or a person other than a foreign power
may provide for  section 65 (4)  to apply, with modifications specified in the
regulations, in relation to a foreign activity arrangement made with the
specified person before the regulations come into force.

##### Offence of carrying out etc relevant activities pursuant to unregistered foreign activity arrangement

67

67.1

This section applies where a person (“ P ”) makes a foreign activity
arrangement required to be registered under  section 65 (4) .

67.2

P commits an offence if—

67.2.a

P carries out a relevant activity, or arranges for a relevant activity to be
carried out, in the United Kingdom pursuant to the arrangement,

67.2.b

the arrangement is not registered, and

67.2.c

P knows, or having regard to other matters known to them ought reasonably to
know, that they are acting pursuant to a foreign activity arrangement.

67.3

A person other than P commits an offence if—

67.3.a

the person carries out a relevant activity, or arranges for a relevant
activity to be carried out, in the United Kingdom pursuant to the arrangement,

67.3.b

the arrangement is not registered, and

67.3.c

the person knows, or having regard to other matters known to them ought
reasonably to know, that they are acting pursuant to a foreign activity
arrangement.

67.4

In proceedings for an offence under subsection  (3)  it is a defence to show
that the person—

67.4.a

took all steps reasonably practicable to determine whether the arrangement was
registered, and

67.4.b

reasonably believed that the arrangement was registered.

67.5

A person is taken to have shown a matter mentioned in subsection  (4)  if—

67.5.a

sufficient evidence of the matter is adduced to raise an issue with respect to
it, and

67.5.b

the contrary is not proved beyond reasonable doubt.

67.6

In this section “ relevant activity ” has the same meaning as in  section 65 .

##### Requirement to register relevant activities of specified persons

68

68.1

A specified person who is not a foreign power must not carry out relevant
activities in the United Kingdom unless the activities are registered with the
Secretary of State by the specified person.

68.2

A person who holds office in or under, or is an employee or other member of
staff of, a specified person who is not a foreign power, must not carry out
relevant activities in the United Kingdom in that capacity unless the
activities are registered with the Secretary of State by the specified person.

68.3

A person who holds office in or under, or is an employee or other member of
staff of, a specified person who is a foreign power must not carry out
relevant activities in the United Kingdom in that capacity if or to the extent
that—

68.3.a

the person makes a misrepresentation about their activities or the capacity in
which they act (whether generally or to a particular person), and

68.3.b

the activities are not registered with the Secretary of State by the specified
person.

68.4

In this section “relevant activities”—

68.4.a

if regulations under subsection  (5)  apply in relation to the specified
person, has the meaning given by the regulations, and

68.4.b

otherwise, means all activities.

68.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about activities
which are relevant activities for the purposes of this section, either in
relation to all specified persons or in relation to such specified persons as
the regulations may provide.

68.6

A misrepresentation is a representation that a reasonable person would
consider to be false or misleading in a material way.

68.7

A misrepresentation may be made by making a statement or by any other kind of
conduct (including an omission), and may be express or implied.

68.8

A misrepresentation may in particular include—

68.8.a

a misrepresentation as to the person’s identity or purpose;

68.8.b

presenting information in a way which amounts to a misrepresentation, even if
some or all of the information is true.

68.9

A person who breaches a prohibition in subsection  (1)  or  (2)  commits an
offence.

68.10

A person who breaches a prohibition in subsection  (3)  commits an offence if
the person knows, or having regard to other matters known to them ought
reasonably to know, that paragraph  (a)  of that subsection applies.

68.11

In proceedings for an offence under subsection  (9)  or  (10)  it is a defence
to show that the person—

68.11.a

took all steps reasonably practicable to determine whether the activities were
registered, and

68.11.b

reasonably believed that the activities were registered.

68.12

A person is taken to have shown a matter mentioned in subsection  (11)  if—

68.12.a

sufficient evidence of the matter is adduced to raise an issue with respect to
it, and

68.12.b

the contrary is not proved beyond reasonable doubt.

#### Political influence activities of foreign powers

##### Requirement to register foreign influence arrangements

69

69.1

A “foreign influence arrangement” is an agreement or arrangement between a
person (“ P ”) and a foreign power pursuant to which the foreign power directs
P—

69.1.a

to carry out political influence activities in the United Kingdom, or

69.1.b

to arrange for such activities to be carried out in the United Kingdom.

69.2

Where the foreign power is a specified person, the arrangement is not a
foreign influence arrangement to the extent that it relates to political
influence activities that are relevant activities for the purposes of  section
65 .

69.3

Where P makes a foreign influence arrangement, P must register the arrangement
with the Secretary of State before the end of the period of 28 days beginning
with the day on which P makes the arrangement.

69.4

Subsection (3)  applies in relation to a foreign influence arrangement which
is made before, and which continues to have effect on, the day on which  this
section  comes into force as if, for the words from “28” to the end, there
were substituted  “3 months beginning with the day on which  this section
comes into force.”

69.5

P commits an offence if P—

69.5.a

fails to comply with  subsection (3) , and

69.5.b

knows that the arrangement in question is a foreign influence arrangement.

##### Meaning of “political influence activity”

70

70.1

An activity is a “political influence activity” if—

70.1.a

it is within subsection  (2) , and

70.1.b

the purpose, or one of the purposes, for which it is carried out is the
purpose of influencing a matter or person within subsection  (3) .

70.2

The activities within this subsection are—

70.2.a

making any communication to a person listed in  Schedule 14 ;

70.2.b

making a public communication, except where it is reasonably clear from the
communication that it is made by or at the direction of the foreign power;

70.2.c

distributing money, goods or services to UK persons.

70.3

The matters and persons within this subsection are—

70.3.a

an election or referendum in the United Kingdom,

70.3.b

a decision of—

70.3.b.i

a Minister of the Crown (within the meaning of the Ministers of the Crown Act
1975) or a United Kingdom government department,

70.3.b.ii

a Northern Ireland Minister, the First Minister in Northern Ireland, the
deputy First Minister in Northern Ireland, a person appointed as a junior
Minister under section 19 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998, a Northern Ireland
department or the Executive Committee of the Northern Ireland Assembly,

70.3.b.iii

the Scottish Ministers or the First Minister for Scotland, or

70.3.b.iv

the Welsh Ministers, the First Minister for Wales or the Counsel General to
the Welsh Government,

70.3.c

the proceedings of a UK registered political party, or

70.3.d

a Member of either House of Parliament, the Northern Ireland Assembly, the
Scottish Parliament or Senedd Cymru (acting in that capacity).

70.4

For the purposes of subsection  (2) (b)  a person makes a public communication
if the person—

70.4.a

publishes or disseminates information, a document or other article, or

70.4.b

produces information, a document or other article for publication or
dissemination.

70.5

In  this section —

                                    “ UK person ” has the same meaning as in
section 2 ;
“ UK registered political party ” means a political party registered under
Part 2  of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.

##### Offence of carrying out etc political influence activities pursuant to unregistered foreign influence arrangement

71

71.1

This section applies where a person (“ P ”) makes a foreign influence
arrangement required to be registered under  section 69 (3) .

71.2

P commits an offence if—

71.2.a

after the end of the registration period P carries out a political influence
activity, or arranges for a political influence activity to be carried out, in
the United Kingdom pursuant to the arrangement,

71.2.b

the arrangement is not registered, and

71.2.c

P knows, or having regard to other matters known to them ought reasonably to
know, that they are acting pursuant to a foreign influence arrangement.

71.3

A person other than P commits an offence if—

71.3.a

after the end of the registration period the person carries out a political
influence activity, or arranges for a political influence activity to be
carried out, in the United Kingdom pursuant to the arrangement,

71.3.b

the arrangement is not registered, and

71.3.c

the person knows, or having regard to other matters known to them ought
reasonably to know, that they are acting pursuant to a foreign influence
arrangement.

71.4

In this section the “ registration period ” means the period before the end of
which P must register the arrangement (see  section 69 (3)  and  (4) ).

71.5

In proceedings for an offence under subsection  (3)  it is a defence to show
that the person—

71.5.a

took all steps reasonably practicable to determine whether the arrangement was
registered, and

71.5.b

reasonably believed that the arrangement was registered.

71.6

A person is taken to have shown a matter mentioned in subsection  (5)  if—

71.6.a

sufficient evidence of the matter is adduced to raise an issue with respect to
it, and

71.6.b

the contrary is not proved beyond reasonable doubt.

##### Requirement to register political influence activities of foreign powers

72

72.1

A person who holds office in or under, or is an employee or other member of
staff of, a foreign power must not carry out political influence activities in
the United Kingdom in that capacity if or to the extent that—

72.1.a

the person makes a misrepresentation about their activities or the capacity in
which they act (whether generally or to a particular person), and

72.1.b

the activities are not registered with the Secretary of State by the foreign
power.

72.2

Where the foreign power is a specified person, the prohibition in  subsection
(1)  does not apply to the extent that the political influence activities are
relevant activities for the purposes of  section 68 .

72.3

A misrepresentation is a representation that a reasonable person would
consider to be false or misleading in a material way.

72.4

A misrepresentation may be made by making a statement or by any other kind of
conduct (including an omission), and may be express or implied.

72.5

A misrepresentation may in particular include—

72.5.a

a misrepresentation as to the person’s identity or purpose;

72.5.b

presenting information in a way which amounts to a misrepresentation, even if
some or all of the information is true.

72.6

A person who breaches a prohibition in subsection  (1)  commits an offence if
the person knows, or having regard to other matters known to them ought
reasonably to know, that paragraph  (a)  of that subsection applies.

72.7

In proceedings for an offence under  subsection (6)  it is a defence to show
that the person—

72.7.a

took all steps reasonably practicable to determine whether the activities were
registered, and

72.7.b

reasonably believed that the activities were registered.

72.8

A person is taken to have shown a matter mentioned in subsection  (7)  if—

72.8.a

sufficient evidence of the matter is adduced to raise an issue with respect to
it, and

72.8.b

the contrary is not proved beyond reasonable doubt.

#### Exemptions

##### Exemptions

73

Schedule 15  makes provision in relation to exemptions.

#### Information

##### Registration information

74

74.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the information
a person is required to provide to the Secretary of State when registering—

74.1.a

a foreign activity arrangement under  section 65 ,

74.1.b

a relevant activity under  section 68 ,

74.1.c

a foreign influence arrangement under  section 69 , or

74.1.d

a political influence activity under  section 72 .

74.2

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may, in particular, require the person to
provide information about any arrangements made by the person pursuant to the
arrangement or activity which is required to be registered.

74.3

Regulations under subsection  (1) (c)  may, in particular, require the person
to provide information about any political influence activities carried out,
or arranged to be carried out, during the registration period by any person
pursuant to the arrangement which is required to be registered.

74.4

In subsection  (3)  “ registration period ” has the same meaning as in section
71 .

74.5

Where there is a material change to any information provided to the Secretary
of State under  this section  or  section 75  in relation to a registered
arrangement or a registered activity, the person who registered the
arrangement or activity must inform the Secretary of State of the change
before the end of the period of 14 days beginning with the day on which the
change takes effect.

74.6

The Secretary of State—

74.6.a

may by regulations make provision about the information to be provided to the
Secretary of State under  subsection (5) ,

74.6.b

may issue guidance about what may or may not constitute a material change.

74.7

The provision which may be made by regulations under this section includes
provision about the form in which information is to be provided.

74.8

A person who fails to comply with subsection  (5)  commits an offence if, as a
result of the failure, the information provided to the Secretary of State in
relation to the registered arrangement or registered activity is false,
inaccurate or misleading in a material way.

##### Information notices

75

75.1

The Secretary of State may give an information notice to—

75.1.a

a person who is a party to a foreign activity arrangement registered under
section 65 ;

75.1.b

a person the Secretary of State reasonably believes to be a party to a foreign
activity arrangement which is required to be, but is not, registered under
that section;

75.1.c

a person the Secretary of State reasonably believes to be carrying out
relevant activities, or arranging for relevant activities to be carried out,
in the United Kingdom pursuant to a foreign activity arrangement within
paragraph  (a)  or  (b) ;

75.1.d

a person who has registered relevant activities under  section 68 ;

75.1.e

a person the Secretary of State reasonably believes to be carrying out
relevant activities registered under that section;

75.1.f

a person the Secretary of State reasonably believes to be carrying out
relevant activities in breach of a prohibition in that section.

75.2

The Secretary of State may give an information notice to—

75.2.a

a person who is a party to a foreign influence arrangement registered under
section 69 ;

75.2.b

a person the Secretary of State reasonably believes to be a party to a foreign
influence arrangement which is required to be, but is not, registered under
that section;

75.2.c

a person the Secretary of State reasonably believes to be carrying out
political influence activities, or arranging for political influence
activities to be carried out, in the United Kingdom pursuant to a foreign
influence arrangement within paragraph  (a)  or  (b) ;

75.2.d

a person who has registered political influence activities under  section 72 ;

75.2.e

a person the Secretary of State reasonably believes to be carrying out
political influence activities registered under that section;

75.2.f

a person the Secretary of State reasonably believes to be carrying out
political influence activities in breach of a prohibition in that section.

75.3

An information notice is a notice requiring the person to whom it is given to
supply the information specified in the notice.

75.4

An information notice may only specify information which the Secretary of
State considers may be relevant to an arrangement or activity within
subsection  (1)  or  (2) .

75.5

An information notice must—

75.5.a

specify the form in which the information must be supplied, and

75.5.b

specify the date by which the information must be supplied.

75.6

Where an information notice has been given to a person, the Secretary of State
may cancel it by giving written notice to that effect to the person.

75.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about—

75.7.a

the minimum period between the date on which an information notice is given
and the date specified under  subsection (5) (b) ;

75.7.b

other matters which may be specified in an information notice;

75.7.c

the cancellation of information notices.

75.8

A person commits an offence if, without reasonable excuse, the person fails to
comply with an information notice.

75.9

The Secretary of State may not give an information notice to a foreign power.

##### Confidential material

76

76.1

Nothing in  this Part  is to be taken to require any person to disclose any
information that the person is entitled to refuse to disclose in legal
proceedings on grounds of legal professional privilege (in Scotland,
confidentiality of communications).

76.2

Nothing in this Part is to be taken to require any person to disclose
confidential journalistic material or to identify or confirm a source of
journalistic information.

76.3

In this section—

                                    “ confidential journalistic material ” has
the same meaning as in section 264 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016;
“ source of journalistic information ” has the same meaning as in section 263
of that Act.

##### Offence of providing false information

77

77.1

A person commits an offence if—

77.1.a

the person provides information to the Secretary of State under  section 74
or  75  in connection with a foreign activity arrangement, and

77.1.b

the information is false, inaccurate or misleading in a material way.

77.2

A person commits an offence if—

77.2.a

the person provides information to the Secretary of State under  section 74
or  75  in connection with a relevant activity which is required to be
registered under  section 68 , and

77.2.b

the information is false, inaccurate or misleading in a material way.

77.3

A person commits an offence if—

77.3.a

the person provides information to the Secretary of State under  section 74
or  75  in connection with a foreign influence arrangement,

77.3.b

the information is false, inaccurate or misleading in a material way, and

77.3.c

the person knows, or having regard to other matters known to them ought
reasonably to know, that the information is false, inaccurate or misleading in
a material way.

77.4

A person commits an offence if—

77.4.a

the person provides information to the Secretary of State under  section 74
or  75  in connection with a political influence activity which is required to
be registered under  section 72 ,

77.4.b

the information is false, inaccurate or misleading in a material way, and

77.4.c

the person knows, or having regard to other matters known to them ought
reasonably to know, that the information is false, inaccurate or misleading in
a material way.

##### Offence of carrying out activities under arrangements tainted by false information

78

78.1

A person commits an offence if—

78.1.a

the person carries out a relevant activity, or arranges for a relevant
activity to be carried out, in the United Kingdom pursuant to a foreign
activity arrangement required to be registered under  section 65 (4) ,

78.1.b

information provided to the Secretary of State under  section 74  or  75  in
connection with the arrangement, whether by the person or by another person,
is false, inaccurate or misleading in a material way, and

78.1.c

the person knows, or having regard to other matters known to them ought
reasonably to know, that the facts are as mentioned in  paragraph (b) .

78.2

A person commits an offence if—

78.2.a

the person carries out a political influence activity, or arranges for a
political influence activity to be carried out, in the United Kingdom pursuant
to a foreign influence arrangement required to be registered under  section 69
(3) ,

78.2.b

information provided to the Secretary of State under  section 74  or  75  in
connection with the arrangement, whether by the person or by another person,
is false, inaccurate or misleading in a material way, and

78.2.c

the person knows, or having regard to other matters known to them ought
reasonably to know, that the facts are as mentioned in  paragraph (b) .

##### Publication and disclosure of information

79

79.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about—

79.1.a

publication of information provided to the Secretary of State under  section
74  or  75 ;

79.1.b

the disclosure of information provided to the Secretary of State under either
of those sections.

79.2

The power under  subsection (1) (a)  includes in particular power to make
provision about a description of information or material which is not to be
published.

#### Offences: penalties etc

##### Offences: penalties

80

80.1

A person who commits a foreign activity offence is liable—

80.1.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years
or to a fine (or both);

80.1.b

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court or to a fine (or both);

80.1.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

80.1.d

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both).

80.2

“ Foreign activity offence ” means—

80.2.a

an offence under  section 65 (5) ;

80.2.b

an offence under  section 67 ;

80.2.c

an offence under  section 68 (9)  or  (10) ;

80.2.d

an offence under  section 74 (8)  committed in relation to a foreign activity
arrangement registered under  section 65  or a relevant activity registered
under  section 68 ;

80.2.e

an offence under  section 75 (8)  committed in relation to an information
notice given under  section 75 (1) ;

80.2.f

an offence under  section 77 (1)  or  (2) ;

80.2.g

an offence under  section 78 (1) .

80.3

A person who commits a foreign influence offence is liable—

80.3.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years
or to a fine (or both);

80.3.b

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court or to a fine (or both);

80.3.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

80.3.d

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both).

80.4

“ Foreign influence offence ” means—

80.4.a

an offence under  section 69 (5) ;

80.4.b

an offence under  section 71 ;

80.4.c

an offence under  section 72 (6) ;

80.4.d

an offence under  section 74 (8)  committed in relation to a foreign influence
arrangement registered under  section 69  or a political influence activity
registered under  section 72 ;

80.4.e

an offence under  section 75 (8)  committed in relation to an information
notice given under  section 75 (2) ;

80.4.f

an offence under  section 77 (3)  or  (4) ;

80.4.g

an offence under  section 78 (2) .

##### Offences: supplementary provision

81

81.1

Section  35  (offences by body corporate etc) applies in relation to offences
under  this Part  as it applies in relation to offences under  Part 1 .

81.2

Section  36 (1)  and  (3)  to  (5)  (offences committed outside the United
Kingdom) applies in relation to offences under  this Part  as it applies in
relation to offences under  Part 1 .

81.3

If it is necessary in the interests of national security, a court may exclude
the public from any part of proceedings for an offence under  this Part ,
except for the passing of sentence.

#### Supplementary

##### Annual report

82

82.1

The Secretary of State must, as soon as is practicable after the end of each
relevant period—

82.1.a

prepare a report in relation to that period, and

82.1.b

lay a copy of the report before Parliament.

82.2

The report must provide details of—

82.2.a

the total number of arrangements registered with the Secretary of State under
section 65  or  69 ,

82.2.b

the number of arrangements registered with the Secretary of State under
section 65  or  69  during the relevant period,

82.2.c

the total number of specified persons and foreign powers who have registered
activities with the Secretary of State under  section 68  or  72 ,

82.2.d

the number of specified persons and foreign powers who have registered
activities with the Secretary of State under  section 68  or  72  during the
relevant period,

82.2.e

the number of information notices issued under  section 75  during the
relevant period,

82.2.f

the number of persons charged with an offence under  this Part  during the
relevant period, and

82.2.g

the number of persons convicted of an offence under  this Part  during the
relevant period.

82.3

“ Relevant period ” means—

82.3.a

the period of 12 months beginning with the day on which  this section  comes
into force, and

82.3.b

each subsequent period of 12 months.

##### Interpretation

83

83.1

In this Part—

                                    “ foreign activity arrangement ” has the
meaning given by  section 65 ;
“ foreign influence arrangement ” has the meaning given by  section 69 ;
“ foreign power ” has the same meaning as in Part 1 (see section  32 ),
subject to subsection  (2) ;
“ political influence activity ” has the meaning given by  section 70 ;
“ registered activity ” means an activity registered with the Secretary of
State under  section 68  or  72 ;
“ registered arrangement ” means an arrangement registered with the Secretary
of State under  section 65  or  69 ;
“ specified person ” has the meaning given by  section 66 .

83.2

For the purposes of this Part references in section  32  to a foreign State,
or a foreign country or territory, do not include the Republic of Ireland.

83.3

For the purposes of this Part references to an “arrangement” do not include an
arrangement between a person (“ P ”) and—

83.3.a

a person who holds office in or under, or is an employee or other member of
staff of, P (acting in that capacity), or

83.3.b

a person the Secretary of State reasonably considers to be exercising
functions on behalf of P as if the person were within paragraph  (a) .

### Terrorism

#### Damages in national security proceedings

##### National security proceedings

84

84.1

Sections  85  and  86  apply to proceedings (“national security proceedings”)
before a court which—

84.1.a

are commenced on or after the date this section comes into force,

84.1.b

are brought against the Crown on any grounds (unless they are brought under
section 7(1)(a) of the Human Rights Act 1998), and

84.1.c

relate to national security.

84.2

For the purposes of this section—

84.2.a

proceedings relate to national security where a party to those proceedings
has, at any stage, presented evidence or made submissions to the court
relating to national security;

84.2.b

the circumstances in which evidence or submissions are to be taken to relate
to national security include, in particular, where the evidence or submissions
relate to—

84.2.b.i

the use of investigatory powers or surveillance powers under the Regulation of
Investigatory Powers Act 2000, or the use of similar powers overseas in the
interests of national security;

84.2.b.ii

the activities of the intelligence services in the United Kingdom or overseas,
or the activities of similar services overseas;

84.2.b.iii

investigations or other activities in connection with preventing the
commission of terrorism offences or other involvement in terrorism-related
activity in the United Kingdom or overseas.

##### Duty to consider reduction in damages payable by the Crown

85

85.1

This section applies where—

85.1.a

liability of the Crown to the claimant has been established by the court in
national security proceedings,

85.1.b

the court is permitted to award damages, payable by the Crown, to the claimant
in those proceedings in respect of that liability,

85.1.c

the Crown has made an application to the court for consideration of the
factors mentioned in subsection  (3)  (the “national security factors”), and

85.1.d

the court has not refused the application.

85.2

Where this section applies, the court must, in deciding what remedy (if any)
to award to the claimant in respect of the liability, consider the national
security factors.

85.3

The national security factors are—

85.3.a

whether the claimant has committed wrongdoing that—

85.3.a.i

involves the commission of a terrorism offence or other involvement in
terrorism-related activity, and

85.3.a.ii

has a connection with the conduct of the Crown complained of in the
proceedings, and

85.3.b

if the claimant has committed such wrongdoing—

85.3.b.i

the extent of that wrongdoing and of its connection with the conduct of the
Crown, and

85.3.b.ii

the matters mentioned in  subsection (4) .

85.4

The matters are whether and to what extent—

85.4.a

there was a risk of harm the Crown sought to prevent or limit in carrying out
the conduct complained of in the proceedings;

85.4.b

there was a limitation on the ability of the Crown to prevent the conduct
occurring, including on the basis of—

85.4.b.i

the conduct having occurred overseas, or

85.4.b.ii

the conduct having been carried out in conjunction with a third party.

85.5

Where the court would (but for this subsection) award damages to the claimant
of a particular amount, the court must decide whether, in light of its
consideration of the national security factors, it is appropriate for it to
reduce the amount of damages (including to nil).

85.6

But the court may not decide to reduce damages it would otherwise award to the
claimant under section 8 of the Human Rights Act 1998 (judicial remedies).

85.7

Nothing in this section—

85.7.a

prevents a court from considering the national security factors of its own
motion where this section does not apply;

85.7.b

affects any other power the court may have to reduce damages or to refuse to
award damages, including by reason of—

85.7.b.i

the claimant’s wrongdoing,

85.7.b.ii

the claimant’s failure to mitigate any harm they have suffered, or

85.7.b.iii

the claimant’s contribution to that harm;

85.7.c

affects any existing rule of law otherwise limiting the scope of liability of
the Crown.

##### Section 

86

86.1

An application for consideration of the national security factors may be made
at any time before the final disposal of the national security proceedings
(or, in Scotland, before final judgment in the proceedings within the meaning
given by section 136 of the  Courts Reform (Scotland) Act 2014 (asp 18) ),
including at a time before any liability of the Crown has been established.

86.2

The application must—

86.2.a

set out how the Crown considers the national security factors to apply, and
the Crown’s reasons;

86.2.b

set out the extent to which the Crown considers that damages should be reduced
in light of the national security factors, and the Crown’s reasons;

86.2.c

otherwise be made in accordance with rules of court.

86.3

The court may refuse the application if, in the court’s view, consideration of
the national security factors would—

86.3.a

cause unreasonable delay to the national security proceedings, or

86.3.b

unreasonably prejudice another party to the proceedings.

##### Sections 

87

In sections  84  to  86  and this section—

                  “ claimant ” means a person claiming a remedy of any kind
against the Crown in national security proceedings;
“ court ” includes a tribunal;
“ intelligence service ” means—
the Security Service;
the Secret Intelligence Service;
the Government Communications Headquarters;
“ involvement in terrorism-related activity ” has the same meaning as in the
Terrorism Prevention and Investigation Measures Act 2011 (see section 4 of
that Act);
“ national security factors ” means the factors set out for consideration in
section  85 (3) ;
“ national security proceedings ” has the meaning given by section  84 ;
“ rules of court ” includes tribunal procedure rules;
“ terrorism offence ” means any of the following (whenever committed)—
an offence listed in—
Schedule A1 to the Sentencing Code (terrorism offences: England and Wales), or
Schedule 1A to the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 (terrorism offences: Scotland
and Northern Ireland);
a service offence as respects which the corresponding civil offence is so
listed; and for this purpose “ service offence ” and “ corresponding civil
offence ” have the same meanings as in the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 (see
section 95 of that Act);
an offence that—
was abolished on or before the date this section comes into force, and
if committed on or after the date on which it was abolished, would have
constituted an offence referred to in paragraph (a) or (b);
an offence determined to have a terrorist connection under—
section 69 of the Sentencing Code (in the case of an offender sentenced in
England and Wales), including as applied by section 238(6) of the Armed Forces
Act 2006,
section 30 of the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 (in the case of an offender
sentenced in Northern Ireland, or an offender sentenced in England and Wales
before the Sentencing Code applied), or
section 32 of the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 (in the case of an offender
sentenced for a service offence before the Sentencing Code applied);
an offence proved to have been aggravated by reason of having a terrorist
connection under section 31 of the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 (in the case of
an offender sentenced in Scotland).

#### Freezing and forfeiture of damages

##### Damages at risk of being used for the purposes of terrorism

88

Schedule 16  makes provision in relation to damages at risk of being used for
the purposes of terrorism.

#### Legal aid

##### Legal aid for individuals convicted of terrorism offences

89

89.1

The Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012 is amended as
follows.

89.2

In section 9(1) (general cases), at the end insert—

This is subject to section 9A (limits on access to civil legal services for
individuals convicted of terrorism offences).

89.3

After section 9 insert—

########### Limits on access to civil legal services for individuals convicted of terrorism offences

89.3.9A

89.3.9A.1

Civil legal services described in Part 1 of Schedule 1 other than those in
paragraph 12 of Schedule 1 (“general case services”) are only to be available
to an individual convicted of a terrorism offence (an “offender”) under this
Part if—

89.3.9A.1.a

the Director has made a determination under section 9(1)(b) (a “general case
determination”) in relation to the offender (and has not withdrawn the
determination), and

89.3.9A.1.b

the Director determines that one or more of Conditions A to G are met.

89.3.9A.2

Condition A is met where the offender was convicted of the terrorism offence
before 19 February 2001.

89.3.9A.3

Condition B is met where the offender was under the age of 18 on the date they
applied for the general case determination (the “application date”).

89.3.9A.4

Condition C is met where the offender was convicted of the terrorism offence
more than 30 years before the application date.

89.3.9A.5

Condition D is met where the offender was convicted of the terrorism offence—

89.3.9A.5.a

when they were under the age of 18, and

89.3.9A.5.b

more than 15 years before the application date.

89.3.9A.6

Condition E is met where the offender applied for the general case
determination before—

89.3.9A.6.a

the commencement date, or

89.3.9A.6.b

the date on which they were convicted of the terrorism offence.

89.3.9A.7

Condition F is met where the Director has made (and not withdrawn) an
exceptional case determination, within the meaning given by section 10(3), in
relation to the offender and the general case services.

89.3.9A.8

Condition G is met where—

89.3.9A.8.a

the general case services are those described in paragraph 11, 33, 34 or 35 of
Schedule 1 (services in relation to domestic violence and housing), and

89.3.9A.8.b

the offender—

89.3.9A.8.b.i

was or is a victim of domestic violence occurring after the relevant date, or

89.3.9A.8.b.ii

is at risk of being a victim of domestic violence.

89.3.9A.9

In subsection  (8) —

            “ domestic violence ” has the meaning given in paragraph 12(9) of
Schedule 1;
“ relevant date ” means the date five years before the application date.

89.3.9A.10

Regulations may make provision specifying for the purposes of this section
when an individual is deemed to have applied for a general case determination.

89.3.9A.11

In this section, “ terrorism offence ” means any of the following (whenever
committed)—

89.3.9A.11.a

an offence listed in—

89.3.9A.11.a.i

Schedule A1 to the Sentencing Code (terrorism offences: England and Wales), or

89.3.9A.11.a.ii

Schedule 1A to the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 (terrorism offences: Scotland
and Northern Ireland);

89.3.9A.11.b

a service offence as respects which the corresponding civil offence is so
listed;

89.3.9A.11.c

an offence that—

89.3.9A.11.c.i

was abolished on or before the commencement date, and

89.3.9A.11.c.ii

if committed on or after the date on which it was abolished, would have
constituted an offence referred to in paragraph  (a)  or  (b) ;

89.3.9A.11.d

an offence determined to have a terrorist connection under—

89.3.9A.11.d.i

section 69 of the Sentencing Code (in the case of an offender sentenced in
England and Wales), including as applied by section 238(6) of the Armed Forces
Act 2006,

89.3.9A.11.d.ii

section 30 of the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 (in the case of an offender
sentenced in Northern Ireland, or an offender sentenced in England and Wales
before the Sentencing Code applied), or

89.3.9A.11.d.iii

section 32 of the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 (in the case of an offender
sentenced for a service offence before the Sentencing Code applied);

89.3.9A.11.e

an offence proved to have been aggravated by reason of having a terrorist
connection under section 31 of the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 (in the case of
an offender sentenced in Scotland).

89.3.9A.12

Where an offender has been convicted of more than one terrorism offence, “the
terrorism offence” in this section means the terrorism offence the offender
has most recently been convicted of.

89.3.9A.13

In this section—

            “ commencement date ” means the date on which section  89  of the
National Security Act 2023 comes into force;
“ service offence ” and “ corresponding civil offence ” have the same meanings
as in the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 (see section 95 of that Act).

89.3.9A.14

Nothing in this section affects the Director’s ability to make determinations
under section 10 (exceptional cases).

89.4

In section 12 (determinations)—

89.4.a

in subsection (2), after “9” insert  “, 9A” ;

89.4.b

in subsection (5), after “9” insert  “, 9A” .

##### Legal aid for individuals convicted of terrorism offences: data sharing

90

In the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012, after
section 9A (as inserted by section  89 ) insert—

######### Information relating to convictions for terrorism offences

90.9B

90.9B.1

The Director may make an information request to a competent authority.

90.9B.2

An information request under this section may be made only for the purpose of
identifying—

90.9B.2.a

whether an individual who has applied for a determination under section 9 has
been convicted of a terrorism offence, and

90.9B.2.b

if the individual has been so convicted, details relating to that conviction.

90.9B.3

An information request under this section may in particular request the
disclosure of any of the following—

90.9B.3.a

a relevant individual’s full name and any previous names;

90.9B.3.b

a relevant individual’s address and any previous addresses;

90.9B.3.c

a relevant individual’s date of birth;

90.9B.3.d

a relevant individual’s national insurance number;

90.9B.3.e

a number identifying a relevant individual in a system maintained by a body
established in accordance with a collaboration agreement under section 22A of
the Police Act 1996;

90.9B.3.f

a number identifying a relevant individual in a system maintained by the
Secretary of State for the management of offenders;

90.9B.3.g

any convictions of a relevant individual;

90.9B.3.h

any details relating to those convictions, including the date of conviction
and any sentence imposed.

90.9B.4

A competent authority may disclose to the Director information specified in an
information request made under this section.

90.9B.5

The Director may, for the purposes of deciding whether general case services
are to be available to an individual under this Part, process any personal
data in respect of a relevant individual disclosed by a competent authority to
the Director under this section.

90.9B.6

This section does not authorise the disclosure or processing of information if
the disclosure or processing would contravene the data protection legislation
(but, in determining whether a disclosure or processing would do so, the
powers conferred by this section are to be taken into account).

90.9B.7

In this section—

                                                                        “
competent authority ” has the same meaning as in section 30 of the Data
Protection Act 2018;
“ general case services ” and “ terrorism offence ” have the same meanings as
in section 9A;
“ personal data ”, “ processing ” and “ the data protection legislation ” have
the same meanings as in section 3 of the Data Protection Act 2018;
“ relevant individual ” means—
an individual who has applied for a determination under section 9, or
an individual who has been convicted of a terrorism offence.

##### Legal aid in relation to terrorism prevention and investigation measures

91

91.1

In Schedule 1 to the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act
2012 (civil legal services), in Part 1 (services), paragraph 45 is amended as
follows.

91.2

Omit sub-paragraph (2).

91.3

For sub-paragraph (3) substitute—

91.3.3

Sub-paragraph (1) is subject to—

91.3.3.a

the exclusions in Part 2 of this Schedule, with the exception of paragraph 18
of that Part, and

91.3.3.b

the exclusion in Part 3 of this Schedule.

91.4

In sub-paragraph (4) omit the definition of “control order proceedings”.

#### Amendments of the Terrorism Act 2000

##### Amendments of the Terrorism Act 2000

92

Schedule 17  contains amendments of the Terrorism Act 2000.

### Miscellaneous and general provisions

#### Intelligence and Security Committee

##### Intelligence and Security Committee: memorandum of understanding

93

93.1

The Prime Minister and the Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament
must consider whether the memorandum of understanding under section 2 of the
Justice and Security Act 2013 should be altered (or replaced) to reflect any
changes arising out of this Act.

93.2

Consideration under  subsection (1)  must begin before the end of the period
of six months beginning with the day on which this section comes into force.

#### General provisions

##### Minor and consequential amendments

94

Schedule 18  makes minor and consequential amendments.

##### Power to make consequential amendments

95

95.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision that is consequential
on any provision of this Act.

95.2

The provision that may be made by regulations under  subsection (1)  includes
provision amending primary legislation.

95.3

“ Primary legislation ” means—

95.3.a

an Act of Parliament,

95.3.b

a Measure or Act of Senedd Cymru,

95.3.c

an Act of the Scottish Parliament,

95.3.d

Northern Ireland legislation, or

95.3.e

retained direct principal EU legislation,

whenever passed or made.

##### Regulations

96

96.1

A power to make regulations under any provision of this Act includes power to
make—

96.1.a

consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional or saving provision;

96.1.b

different provision for different purposes or different areas.

96.2

Subsection (1)  does not apply to regulations under  section 100  or  101 .

96.3

Regulations under this Act are to be made by statutory instrument.

96.4

Regulations under this Act are subject to annulment in pursuance of a
resolution of either House of Parliament, except—

96.4.a

regulations under  section 100  or  101 ;

96.4.b

regulations to which  subsection (6)  applies;

96.4.c

regulations under paragraph  46  of Schedule  6 .

96.5

A statutory instrument containing (whether alone or with other provision)
regulations to which  subsection (6)  applies may not be made unless a draft
of the instrument has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each
House of Parliament.

96.6

This subsection  applies to—

96.6.a

regulations under  section 65 (3) ;

96.6.b

regulations under section  66  specifying a foreign power, or a person other
than a foreign power, who is not specified immediately before the regulations
are made;

96.6.c

regulations under  section 68 (5) ;

96.6.d

regulations under  section 79 (1) (a) ;

96.6.e

regulations under  section 95  which contain provision within  section 95 (2)
;

96.6.f

regulations under paragraph  3 (2) (b)  of Schedule  6 ;

96.6.g

regulations under paragraph  4 (3)  of Schedule  6 ;

96.6.h

regulations under paragraph  15  of  Schedule 13 ;

96.6.i

regulations under paragraph  27  of  Schedule 14 ;

96.6.j

regulations under  paragraph 8  of  Schedule 15 .

96.7

A statutory instrument containing regulations under paragraph  46  of Schedule
6  must be laid before Parliament as soon as practicable after being made.

96.8

Regulations contained in a statutory instrument laid before Parliament under
subsection (7)  cease to have effect at the end of the period of 20 days
beginning with the day on which the instrument is made unless, during that
period, the instrument is approved by a resolution of each House of
Parliament.

96.9

In calculating the period of 20 days no account is to be taken of any whole
days that fall within a period during which—

96.9.a

Parliament is dissolved or prorogued, or

96.9.b

either House of Parliament is adjourned for more than four days.

96.10

Subsections (8)  and  (9)  do not apply to regulations under paragraph  46  of
Schedule  6  which revoke regulations under that paragraph.

96.11

If a draft of a statutory instrument containing regulations under  section 65
,  66  or  68  would, apart from this subsection, be treated for the purposes
of the standing orders of either House of Parliament as a hybrid instrument,
it is to proceed in that House as if it were not such an instrument.

##### Crown application

97

97.1

This Act binds the Crown, subject as follows.

97.2

No contravention by the Crown of a provision of this Act makes the Crown
criminally liable.

97.3

Subsection (2)  does not affect the criminal liability of persons in the
service of the Crown.

97.4

An amendment or repeal made by this Act binds the Crown to the same extent as
the provision amended or repealed.

##### Extent in the United Kingdom

98

98.1

This Act extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland, subject
to—

98.1.a

subsection (2) , and

98.1.b

section 99 .

98.2

An amendment or repeal made by this Act has the same extent in the United
Kingdom as the provision to which it relates.

##### Extent outside the United Kingdom

99

99.1

Section  22  extends to—

99.1.a

the Isle of Man, and

99.1.b

the British Overseas Territories, except Gibraltar.

99.2

His Majesty may by Order in Council provide for any provision of this Act
other than section  22  to extend (with or without modifications) to the
Sovereign Base Areas of Akrotiri and Dhekelia.

99.3

An Order in Council under subsection  (2)  may make consequential,
supplementary, incidental, transitional or saving provision.

99.4

The power under section 384(1) of the Armed Forces Act 2006 may be exercised
so as to extend to any of the Channel Islands (with or without modifications)
the amendment of section 238 of the Armed Forces Act 2006 made by section  22
.

99.5

The power under section 384(2) of the Armed Forces Act 2006 may be exercised
so as to modify section 238 of the Armed Forces Act 2006, as amended by
section  22 , as it extends to the Isle of Man or a British overseas territory
other than Gibraltar.

99.6

The power under section 15(3) of the Official Secrets Act 1989 may be
exercised so as to extend to any of the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man or a
British Overseas Territory any amendment or repeal made by this Act of any
provision of that Act.

99.7

The power under section 415 of the Sentencing Act 2020 may be exercised so as
to extend to any of the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man (with or without
modifications) any amendment or repeal made by this Act of any provision of
that Act.

##### Commencement

100

100.1

This Act comes into force on such day as the Secretary of State may by
regulations appoint, subject to  subsection (2) .

100.2

Sections 95  to  102  come into force on the day on which this Act is passed.

100.3

A power to make regulations under  this section  includes power to appoint
different days for different purposes or areas.

##### Transitional and saving provision

101

101.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make transitional or saving
provision in connection with the coming into force of any provision of this
Act.

101.2

A power to make regulations under this section includes power to make
different provision for different purposes or areas.

##### Short title

102

This Act may be cited as the National Security Act 2023.

## Schedules

                 Foreign interference in elections

Section 16

##### Relevant electoral offences

                          Offences under the  Electoral Law Act (Northern
Ireland) 1962 (c.14 (N.I.))
An offence under any of these provisions of Schedule 9 to the  Electoral Law
Act (Northern Ireland) 1962 (c.14 (N.I.)) Maximum term of imprisonment
Paragraph 1 (bribery) 4 years Paragraph 2 (treating) 4 years Paragraph 3
(undue influence) 4 years Paragraph 4 (personation) 7 years Paragraph 4A
(postal and proxy votes) 7 years Paragraph 5A (false statements in nomination
papers etc) 4 years Paragraph 26(2) (tampering with nomination papers etc) 7
years

                          Offences under the Representation of the People Act
1983
An offence under any of these provisions of the Representation of the People
Act 1983 Maximum term of imprisonment                              Section 60
(personation) 7 years Section 62A (postal and proxy votes) 7 years Section 62B
(postal and proxy votes: Scottish local government elections) 7 years Section
65 (tampering with nomination papers etc) 7 years Section 65A (false
statements in nomination papers etc) 4 years Section 65B (false information in
nomination papers etc: Scottish local government elections) 4 years Section
112A (handling of postal voting documents by political campaigners) 7 years
Section 113 (bribery) 4 years Section 114 (treating) 4 years Section 114A
(undue influence) 4 years Section 115 (undue influence in a local government
election in Scotland or Wales) 4 years

                          Offences under the Political Parties, Elections and
Referendums Act 2000
An offence under any of these provisions of the Political Parties, Elections
and Referendums Act 2000 Maximum term of imprisonment
Section 54(7) (information about donors) 4 years Section 54A(5) (false
declaration about source of donation) 4 years Section 54B(3) (false
declaration as to residence condition) 4 years Section 56(3), (3B) or (4)
(failure to return donations) 4 years Section 61 (evading restrictions on
donations) 4 years Section 65(4) (failure to comply with requirements about
recording donations) 4 years Section 66(5) (false declaration in donation
report) 4 years Section 89A (4) or (5) (incurring controlled expenditure in
contravention of restriction) 2 years Section 148 (general offences) 4 years
In Schedule 7 (donations to individuals and members associations)—
paragraph 6A(5) (false declaration as to source of donation)
paragraph 6B(3) (false declaration as to residence condition)
4 years                                          In Schedule 7A (loans to
individuals and members associations)—
paragraph 4A(5) (false declaration as to residence condition)
paragraph 8(9) (facilitating controlled transaction involving unauthorised
participant)       4 years                                          In
Schedule 11 (donations to recognised third parties)—
paragraph 6A(5) (false declaration as to source of donation)
paragraph 6B(3) (false declaration as to residence condition)       4 years
In Schedule 15 (donations to permitted participants)—
paragraph 6A(5) (false declaration as to source of donation)
paragraph 6B(3) (false declaration as to residence condition)       4 years

##### Amendments

###### Electoral Law Act (Northern Ireland) 1962 (c.14 (N.I.))

1

1.1

The  Electoral Law Act (Northern Ireland) 1962 (c.14 (N.I.))  is amended as
follows.

1.2

In section 105 (restrictions on summary prosecution) after subsection (8)
insert—

1.2.9

A corrupt practice or electoral offence in relation to which section  16  of
the National Security Act 2023 (which provides for higher sentences in cases
of foreign interference) applies is triable only on indictment.

1.3

In section 106 (prosecution of offences disclosed on election petition) after
subsection (1) insert—

1.3.1A

The duty in subsection (1) to obey a direction given by an election court does
not apply to a direction with respect to the prosecution of a corrupt practice
or electoral offence in relation to which the Director has reasonable grounds
to believe section  16  of the National Security Act 2023 (which provides for
higher sentences in cases of foreign interference) applies.

1.4

In section 108 (penalties for corrupt practices) after subsection (4) insert—

1.4.5

This section does not apply where section  16  of the National Security Act
2023 (which provides for higher sentences in cases of foreign interference)
applies in relation to the corrupt practice.

1.5

In section 111 (penalties for electoral offences) after subsection (2A)
insert—

1.5.2B

Subsections (1) to (2A) do not apply where section  16  of the National
Security Act 2023 (which provides for higher sentences in cases of foreign
interference) applies in relation to the electoral offence.

1.6

In section 112(1H) (incapacities resulting from convictions) after “109”
insert  “or under section  16  of the National Security Act 2023 (which
provides for higher sentences in cases of foreign interference)” .

1.7

In section 118 (time limit for prosecutions) after subsection (3) insert—

1.7.4

This section does not apply where section  16  of the National Security Act
2023 (which provides for higher sentences in cases of foreign interference)
applies in relation to the electoral misdemeanour.

###### Representation of the People Act 1983 (c. 2)

2

2.1

The Representation of the People Act 1983 is amended as follows.

2.2

In section 65 (offence of tampering with nomination papers etc) after
subsection (4) insert—

2.2.5

Subsections (3) and (4) do not apply where section  16  of the National
Security Act 2023 (which provides for higher sentences in cases of foreign
interference) applies in relation to the offence.

2.3

In section 168 (penalties for corrupt practices) after subsection (1) insert—

2.3.1A

Subsection (1) does not apply where section  16  of the National Security Act
2023 (which provides for higher sentences in cases of foreign interference)
applies in relation to the corrupt practice.

2.4

In section 176 (time limit for prosecutions) after subsection (1) insert—

2.4.1A

Subsection (1) does not apply where section  16  of the National Security Act
2023 (which provides for higher sentences in cases of foreign interference)
applies in relation to the offence.

###### Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 (c. 41)

3

3.1

The Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 is amended as
follows.

3.2

In section 147 (civil sanctions)—

3.2.a

the existing text becomes subsection (1);

3.2.b

after that subsection insert—

3.2.b.2

Schedule 19C does not apply in relation to the commission of an offence under
this Act where section  16  of the National Security Act 2023 (which provides
for higher sentences in cases of foreign interference) applies in relation to
the offence.

3.3

In section 150 (punishment of offences) at the end insert—

3.3.6

Schedule 20 does not apply where section  16  of the National Security Act
2023 (which provides for higher sentences in cases of foreign interference)
applies in relation to the offence.

Powers of entry, search and seizure

Section 23

##### England and Wales and Northern Ireland

###### Introductory

1

1.1

This Part  of  this Schedule  applies in England and Wales and in Northern
Ireland.

1.2

In  this Part  of  this Schedule  “ relevant act ” means—

1.2.a

an offence under  this Part  of this Act, other than an offence under—

1.2.a.i

section  5  (unauthorised entry to a prohibited place);

1.2.a.ii

section  6  (prohibited place: failure to comply with order of constable);

1.2.a.iii

section  11  (cordoned area: failure to comply with order of constable);

1.2.a.iv

this Schedule ;

1.2.a.v

Schedule  3  (disclosure orders);

1.2.a.vi

Schedule  4  (customer information orders);

1.2.b

an act or threat within section  33 (3) (b)  or  (c) .

###### Material other than confidential material: search, seizure and retention

2

2.1

A constable may make an application for the issue of a warrant under  this
paragraph —

2.1.a

in England and Wales, to a justice of the peace;

2.1.b

in Northern Ireland, to a lay magistrate.

2.2

The justice of the peace or lay magistrate may grant the application if
satisfied that—

2.2.a

conditions 1 and 2 are met, and

2.2.b

in the case of an application for an all premises warrant, condition 3 is met.

2.3

Condition 1 is that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a
relevant act has been, or is about to be, committed.

2.4

Condition 2 is that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that there is
on the relevant premises material which—

2.4.a

is likely to be evidence that a relevant act has been, or is about to be,
committed, and

2.4.b

does not consist of or include confidential material.

2.5

Condition 3 is that it is not reasonably practicable to specify in the
application all the premises which the person specified in the application
occupies or controls and which might need to be searched.

2.6

A warrant under  this paragraph  is a warrant authorising any constable—

2.6.a

to enter the relevant premises,

2.6.b

to search the relevant premises and any person found there, and

2.6.c

to seize and retain any material found on a search under  paragraph (b)  which
is likely to be evidence that a relevant act has been, or is about to be,
committed.

2.7

A warrant under  this paragraph  does not authorise—

2.7.a

the seizure and retention of confidential material, or

2.7.b

a constable to require a person to remove any clothing in public except for
headgear, footwear, an outer coat or jacket and gloves.

2.8

In  this paragraph  the “relevant premises” are—

2.8.a

one or more sets of premises specified in the application (in which case the
application is for a “specific premises warrant”), or

2.8.b

any premises occupied or controlled by a person specified in the application,
including such sets of premises as are so specified (in which case the
application is for an “all premises warrant”).

###### Confidential material: production orders

3

3.1

A constable may apply to a judge for an order under  this paragraph .

3.2

The judge may grant the application if satisfied that conditions 1 to 4 are
met.

3.3

Condition 1 is that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a
relevant act has been, or is about to be, committed.

3.4

Condition 2 is that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a person
specified in the application has in their possession, custody or control
material which—

3.4.a

is likely to be evidence that a relevant act has been, or is about to be,
committed,

3.4.b

consists of or includes confidential material, and

3.4.c

does not include items subject to legal privilege.

3.5

Condition 3 is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the
material is likely to be of substantial value, whether by itself or with other
material, to an investigation into whether a relevant act has been, or is
about to be, committed.

3.6

Condition 4 is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that it is in
the public interest that the material should be produced or access to it
should be given having regard to—

3.6.a

the benefit likely to accrue to the investigation if the material is obtained,
and

3.6.b

the circumstances under which the person concerned has any of the material in
their possession, custody or control.

3.7

An order under  this paragraph  is an order that the person specified in the
application must do any of the following—

3.7.a

produce to a constable within a specified period for seizure and retention any
material which the person has in their possession, custody or control and to
which the application relates;

3.7.b

give a constable access to any material of the kind mentioned in  paragraph
(a)  within a specified period;

3.7.c

state to the best of the person’s knowledge and belief the location of the
material to which the application relates if it is not in, and will not come
into, the person’s possession, custody or control within the period specified
under  paragraph (a)  or  (b) .

3.8

The specified period is to be the period of 7 days beginning with the date of
the order, unless it appears to the judge that a different period would be
appropriate in the particular circumstances of the application.

4

4.1

A constable may apply to a judge for an order under  this paragraph .

4.2

The judge may grant the application if satisfied that conditions 1 to 5 are
met.

4.3

Condition 1 is that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a
relevant act has been, or is about to be, committed.

4.4

Condition 2 is that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that, within
the period of 28 days beginning with the date of the order, there is likely to
come into existence material which—

4.4.a

is evidence that a relevant act has been, or is about to be, committed,

4.4.b

consists of or includes confidential material, and

4.4.c

does not include items subject to legal privilege.

4.5

Condition 3 is that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a person
specified in the application is likely within that period to have in their
possession, custody or control any of the material to which the application
relates.

4.6

Condition 4 is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the
material is likely to be of substantial value, whether by itself or with other
material, to an investigation into whether a relevant act has been, or is
about to be, committed.

4.7

Condition 5 is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that it is in
the public interest that the material should be produced or access to it
should be given having regard to—

4.7.a

the benefit likely to accrue to the investigation if the material is obtained,
and

4.7.b

the circumstances under which the person concerned is likely to have any of
the material in their possession, custody or control.

4.8

An order under  this paragraph  is an order that the person specified in the
application must do any of the following—

4.8.a

notify a named constable as soon as reasonably practicable after any material
to which the application relates comes into the person’s possession, custody
or control;

4.8.b

produce to a constable within a specified period for seizure and retention any
material to which the application relates which comes into the person’s
possession, custody or control;

4.8.c

give a constable access to any material of the kind mentioned in paragraph
(b)  within a specified period;

4.8.d

state to the best of the person’s knowledge and belief the location of the
material to which the application relates if it is not in, and will not come
into, the person’s possession, custody or control within the period of 28 days
beginning with the date of the order.

4.9

The specified period is to be the period of 7 days beginning with the date of
the notification required by sub-paragraph  (8) (a) , unless it appears to the
judge that a different period would be appropriate in the particular
circumstances of the application.

###### Production orders: supplementary provision

5

An application for an order under paragraph  3  or  4  may be made without
notice to a judge in chambers.

6

6.1

An order under  paragraph 3  or  4 —

6.1.a

does not confer any right to production of, or access to, items subject to
legal privilege, and

6.1.b

has effect despite any restriction on the disclosure of information imposed by
an enactment or otherwise.

6.2

Where the material consists of information stored in electronic form—

6.2.a

an order under  paragraph 3 (7) (a)  or  4 (8) (b)  has effect as an order to
produce the material in a form in which it can be taken away and in which it
is visible and legible, or from which it can readily be produced in a visible
and legible form, and

6.2.b

an order under  paragraph 3 (7) (b)  or  4 (8) (c)  has effect as an order to
give a constable access to the material in a form in which it is visible and
legible.

7

7.1

An order under  paragraph 3  or  4  may be made in relation to material in the
possession, custody or control of a government department or a Northern
Ireland department.

7.2

Where an order is made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1) —

7.2.a

it is to be served as if the proceedings were civil proceedings against the
department, and

7.2.b

it may require any officer of the department, whether named in the order or
not, who may for the time being have in their possession, custody or control
the material concerned, to comply with the order.

7.3

In  this paragraph  “ government department ” means an authorised government
department for the purposes of the Crown Proceedings Act 1947.

8

An order under paragraph  3  or  4  has effect as if it were an order of the
court.

###### Confidential material: search, seizure and retention

9

9.1

A constable may apply to a judge for the issue of a warrant under  this
paragraph .

9.2

The judge may grant the application if satisfied that an order made under
paragraph 3  or  4  in relation to material on the relevant premises has not
been complied with.

9.3

The judge may also grant the application if satisfied that—

9.3.a

conditions 1 to 5 are met, and

9.3.b

in the case of an application for an all premises warrant, condition 6 is met.

9.4

Condition 1 is that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a
relevant act has been, or is about to be, committed.

9.5

Condition 2 is that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that there is
on the relevant premises material which—

9.5.a

is likely to be evidence that a relevant act has been, or is about to be,
committed,

9.5.b

consists of or includes confidential material, and

9.5.c

does not include items subject to legal privilege.

9.6

Condition 3 is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the
material is likely to be of substantial value, whether by itself or with other
material, to an investigation into whether a relevant act has been, or is
about to be, committed.

9.7

Condition 4 is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that it is in
the public interest that the material should be obtained having regard to—

9.7.a

the benefit likely to accrue to the investigation if the material is obtained,
and

9.7.b

the circumstances under which the person concerned has any of the material in
their possession, custody or control.

9.8

Condition 5 is that any of the following apply—

9.8.a

it is not practicable to communicate with any person entitled to produce the
material;

9.8.b

it is not practicable to communicate with any person entitled to grant access
to the material;

9.8.c

the investigation may be seriously prejudiced unless a constable can secure
immediate access to the material.

9.9

Condition 6 is that it is not reasonably practicable to specify in the
application all the premises which the person specified in the application
occupies or controls and which might need to be searched.

9.10

A warrant under  this paragraph  is a warrant authorising any constable—

9.10.a

to enter the relevant premises,

9.10.b

to search the relevant premises and any person found there, and

9.10.c

to seize and retain any material found on a search under  paragraph (b)  which
is likely to be evidence that a relevant act has been, or is about to be,
committed.

9.11

A warrant under  this paragraph  does not authorise—

9.11.a

the seizure and retention of items subject to legal privilege, or

9.11.b

a constable to require a person to remove any clothing in public except for
headgear, footwear, an outer coat or jacket and gloves.

9.12

In  this paragraph  the “relevant premises” are—

9.12.a

one or more sets of premises specified in the application (in which case the
application is for a “specific premises warrant”), or

9.12.b

any premises occupied or controlled by a person specified in the application,
including such sets of premises as are so specified (in which case the
application is for an “all premises warrant”).

###### Explanations

10

10.1

A constable may apply to a judge for an order under  this paragraph  requiring
any person specified in the order to provide an explanation of material—

10.1.a

seized under a warrant under  paragraph 2  or  9 , or

10.1.b

produced or made available to a constable under  paragraph 3  or  4 .

10.2

An application for an order under this paragraph may be made without notice to
a judge in chambers.

10.3

An order under  this paragraph  may not require any person to disclose any
information which they would be entitled to refuse to disclose on grounds of
legal professional privilege in proceedings in the High Court.

10.4

But a lawyer may be required to provide the name and address of their client.

10.5

A statement by a person in response to a requirement imposed by an order under
this paragraph —

10.5.a

may be made orally or in writing, and

10.5.b

may be used in evidence against the person only on a prosecution for an
offence under  paragraph 11 .

10.6

An order under this paragraph has effect as if it were an order of the court.

11

11.1

A person commits an offence if, in purported compliance with an order under
paragraph 10 , they—

11.1.a

make a statement which they know to be false or misleading in a material
particular, or

11.1.b

recklessly make a statement which is false or misleading in a material
particular.

11.2

A person who commits an offence under  sub-paragraph (1)  is liable—

11.2.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both),

11.2.b

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

11.2.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both).

###### Urgent cases

12

12.1

A police officer of at least the rank of superintendent may by a written order
signed by them give to any constable the authority which may be given by—

12.1.a

a warrant under  paragraph 2 , or

12.1.b

a warrant under paragraph  9 ,

but subject to  sub-paragraph (2) .

12.2

An order under  this paragraph  giving the authority which may be given by a
warrant under  paragraph 9  does not authorise a constable to retain
confidential journalistic material.

12.3

An officer may not make an order under  this paragraph  unless the officer —

12.3.a

is satisfied as mentioned in  paragraph 2 (2)  or paragraph  9 (2)  or  (3)
(as the case may be), and

12.3.b

has reasonable grounds for believing that the case is one of great emergency
and that immediate action is necessary.

12.4

Where an order is made under  this paragraph  particulars of the case must be
notified as soon as is reasonably practicable to the Secretary of State.

12.5

A person who wilfully obstructs a search under  this paragraph  commits an
offence.

12.6

A person who commits an offence under sub-paragraph  (5)  is liable on summary
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or a fine not
exceeding level 4 on the standard scale (or both).

13

13.1

This paragraph  applies where confidential journalistic material is seized by
virtue of an order under  paragraph 12  giving the authority which may be
given by a warrant under  paragraph 9 .

13.2

A constable may apply to a judge for the issue of a warrant under  this
paragraph .

13.3

An application under  sub-paragraph (2)  must be made as soon as reasonably
practicable after the material is seized.

13.4

The judge may grant an application under  sub-paragraph (2)  if satisfied that
conditions 1 to 3 are met.

13.5

Condition 1 is that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a
relevant act has been, or is about to be, committed.

13.6

Condition 2 is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the
material is likely to be of substantial value, whether by itself or with other
material, to an investigation into whether a relevant act has been, or is
about to be, committed.

13.7

Condition 3 is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that it is in
the public interest that the material should be retained having regard to the
benefit likely to accrue to the investigation if the material is retained.

13.8

A warrant under  this paragraph  is a warrant authorising the retention of
confidential journalistic material.

13.9

A warrant under  this paragraph  may impose conditions on the retention and
use of the material.

13.10

If the judge does not grant an application for the issue of a warrant under
this paragraph  in relation to any of the material to which the application
relates, the judge may direct that the material is—

13.10.a

returned to the person from whom it was seized, or

13.10.b

destroyed.

14

14.1

If a police officer of at least the rank of superintendent has reasonable
grounds for believing that the case is one of great emergency the officer may
by a written notice signed by them require any person specified in the notice
to provide an explanation of any material seized in pursuance of an order
under paragraph  12 .

14.2

Paragraph  10 (3)  to  (5)  and paragraph  11  apply to a notice under  this
paragraph  as they apply to an order under paragraph  10 .

14.3

A person who fails to comply with a notice under  this paragraph  commits an
offence.

14.4

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under  sub-paragraph (3)
to show that they had a reasonable excuse for their failure.

14.5

A person is taken to have shown that they had a reasonable excuse for their
failure if—

14.5.a

sufficient evidence of that fact is adduced to raise an issue with respect to
it, and

14.5.b

the contrary is not proved beyond reasonable doubt.

14.6

A person guilty of an offence under  sub-paragraph (3)  is liable—

14.6.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the maximum term for summary offences or a fine (or both);

14.6.b

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or
both).

###### Application of PACE

15

15.1

For the purposes of the provisions mentioned in  sub-paragraph (2) —

15.1.a

an investigation into whether a relevant act has been, or is about to be,
committed is to be treated as an investigation into, or in connection with, an
offence, and

15.1.b

material produced in pursuance of an order under  paragraph 3  or  4  is to be
treated as if it were material seized by a constable.

15.2

The provisions are—

15.2.a

sections 21 and 22 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984;

15.2.b

Articles 23 and 24 of the Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland)
Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/1341 (N.I. 12) ),

(seized material: access, copying and retention).

###### Procedure rules

16

16.1

Criminal Procedure Rules may make provision about proceedings in England and
Wales relating to a warrant or order under  this Part  of  this Schedule
(other than an order under paragraph  12 ).

16.2

Crown Court rules and magistrates’ courts rules may make provision about
proceedings in Northern Ireland relating to a warrant or order under  this
Part  of  this Schedule  (other than an order under paragraph  12 ).

16.3

The provision which may be made by virtue of  this paragraph  includes in
particular provision about the variation or discharge of an order.

###### Interpretation

17

17.1

This paragraph applies for the interpretation of this Part of this Schedule.

17.2

“ Confidential material ” means—

17.2.a

confidential journalistic material, and

17.2.b

protected material.

17.3

“ Confidential journalistic material ” has the same meaning as in the
Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (see section 264(6) and (7) of that Act).

17.4

“Protected material”—

17.4.a

in relation to England and Wales, means—

17.4.a.i

items subject to legal privilege,

17.4.a.ii

material falling within section 11(1)(a) or (b) of the Police and Criminal
Evidence Act 1984 (certain personal records, human tissue or tissue fluid held
in confidence), or

17.4.a.iii

material to which section 14(2) of that Act applies (other material acquired
in the course of a trade etc that is held in confidence);

17.4.b

in relation to Northern Ireland, means—

17.4.b.i

items subject to legal privilege;

17.4.b.ii

material falling with Article 13(1)(a) or (b) of the Police and Criminal
Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/1341 (N.I. 12) ) (certain
personal records, human tissue or tissue fluid held in confidence), or

17.4.b.iii

material to which Article 16(2) of that Order applies (other material acquired
in the course of a trade etc that is held in confidence).

17.5

“Items subject to legal privilege”—

17.5.a

in relation to England and Wales, has the meaning given by section 10 of the
Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984;

17.5.b

in relation to Northern Ireland, has the meaning given by Article 12 of the
Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/1341
(N.I. 12) ).

17.6

“Judge”—

17.6.a

in relation to England and Wales, means a judge entitled to exercise the
jurisdiction of the Crown Court;

17.6.b

in relation to Northern Ireland, means a judge of the Crown Court.

##### Scotland

###### Introductory

18

18.1

This Part  of  this Schedule  applies in Scotland.

18.2

In  this Part  of  this Schedule  “ relevant act ” means—

18.2.a

an offence under  this Part  of this Act, other than an offence under—

18.2.a.i

section  5  (unauthorised entry to a prohibited place);

18.2.a.ii

section  6  (prohibited place: failure to comply with order of constable);

18.2.a.iii

section  11  (cordoned area: failure to comply with order of constable);

18.2.a.iv

this Schedule ;

18.2.a.v

Schedule  3  (disclosure orders);

18.2.a.vi

Schedule  4  (customer information orders);

18.2.b

an act or threat within section  33 (3) (b)  or  (c) .

###### Production orders

19

19.1

The procurator fiscal may apply to a sheriff for an order under  this
paragraph .

19.2

The sheriff may grant the application if satisfied that conditions 1 to 4 are
met.

19.3

Condition 1 is that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a
relevant act has been, or is about to be, committed.

19.4

Condition 2 is that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a person
specified in the application has in their possession, custody or control
material which is likely to be evidence that a relevant act has been, or is
about to be, committed.

19.5

Condition 3 is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the
material is likely to be of substantial value, whether by itself or with other
material, to an investigation into whether a relevant act has been, or is
about to be, committed.

19.6

Condition 4 is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that it is in
the public interest that the material should be produced or access to it
should be given having regard to—

19.6.a

the benefit likely to accrue to the investigation if the material is obtained,
and

19.6.b

the circumstances under which the person concerned has any of the material in
their possession, custody or control.

19.7

An order under  this paragraph  is an order that the person specified in the
application must do any of the following—

19.7.a

produce to a constable within a specified period for seizure and retention any
material which the person has in their possession, custody or control and to
which the application relates;

19.7.b

give a constable access to any material of the kind mentioned in  paragraph
(a)  within a specified period;

19.7.c

state to the best of the person’s knowledge and belief the location of the
material to which the application relates if it is not in, and will not come
into, the person’s possession, custody or control within the period specified
under  paragraph (a)  or  (b) .

19.8

The specified period is to be the period of 7 days beginning with the date of
the order, unless it appears to the sheriff that a different period would be
appropriate in the particular circumstances of the application.

19.9

Where the sheriff makes an order under  sub-paragraph (7) (b)  in relation to
material on any premises, they may, on the application of the procurator
fiscal, order any person who appears to them to be entitled to grant entry to
the premises to allow any constable to enter the premises to obtain access to
the material.

20

20.1

The procurator fiscal may apply to a sheriff for an order under  this
paragraph .

20.2

The sheriff may grant the application if satisfied that conditions 1 to 5 are
met.

20.3

Condition 1 is that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a
relevant act has been, or is about to be, committed.

20.4

Condition 2 is that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that, within
the period of 28 days beginning with the date of the order, there is likely to
come into existence material which is evidence that a relevant act has been,
or is about to be, committed.

20.5

Condition 3 is that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a person
specified in the application is likely within that period to have in their
possession, custody or control any of the material to which the application
relates.

20.6

Condition 4 is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the
material is likely to be of substantial value, whether by itself or with other
material, to an investigation into whether a relevant act has been, or is
about to be, committed.

20.7

Condition 5 is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that it is in
the public interest that the material should be produced or access to it
should be given having regard to—

20.7.a

the benefit likely to accrue to the investigation if the material is obtained,
and

20.7.b

the circumstances under which the person concerned is likely to have any of
the material in their possession, custody or control.

20.8

An order under  this paragraph  is an order that the person specified in the
application must do any of the following—

20.8.a

notify a named constable as soon as reasonably practicable after any material
to which the application relates comes into the person’s possession, custody
or control;

20.8.b

produce to a constable within a specified period for seizure and retention any
material to which the application relates which comes into the person’s
possession, custody or control;

20.8.c

give a constable access to any material of the kind mentioned in paragraph
(b)  within a specified period;

20.8.d

state to the best of the person’s knowledge and belief the location of the
material to which the application relates if it is not in, and will not come
into, the person’s possession, custody or control within the period of 28 days
beginning with the date of the order.

20.9

The specified period is to be the period of 7 days beginning with the date of
the notification required by sub-paragraph  (8) (a) , unless it appears to the
sheriff that a different period would be appropriate in the particular
circumstances of the application.

20.10

Where the sheriff makes an order under  sub-paragraph (8) (c)  in relation to
material on any premises, they may, on the application of the procurator
fiscal, order any person who appears to them to be entitled to grant entry to
the premises to allow any constable to enter the premises to obtain access to
the material.

###### Production orders: supplementary

21

An application for an order under paragraph  19  or  20  may be made without
notice to a sheriff in chambers.

22

22.1

An order under paragraph  19  or  20  has effect despite any obligation as to
secrecy or other restriction on the disclosure of information imposed by an
enactment or otherwise.

22.2

Where the material consists of information stored in electronic form—

22.2.a

an order under paragraph  19 (7) (a)  or  20 (8) (b)  has effect as an order
to produce the material in a form in which it can be taken away and in which
it is visible and legible, or from which it can readily be produced in a
visible and legible form, and

22.2.b

an order under paragraph  19 (7) (b)  or  20 (8) (c)  has effect as an order
to give a constable access to the material in a form in which it is visible
and legible.

23

23.1

An order under paragraph  19  or  20  may be made in relation to material in
the possession, custody or control of a government department.

23.2

Where an order is made by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1) —

23.2.a

it is to be served as if the proceedings were civil proceedings against the
department, and

23.2.b

it may require any officer of the department, whether named in the order or
not, who may for the time being have in their possession, custody or control
the material concerned, to comply with the order.

23.3

In  this paragraph  “ government department ” means—

23.3.a

a public department within the meaning of the Crown Suits (Scotland) Act 1857,
and

23.3.b

any part of the Scottish Administration.

24

24.1

Without prejudice to section 305 of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act
1995, provision may be made by the High Court of Justiciary by Act of
Adjournal as to—

24.1.a

the recall and variation of orders under paragraph  19  or  20 ; and

24.1.b

proceedings relating to such orders.

24.2

The following provisions have effect pending the coming into force of an Act
of Adjournal under sub-paragraph  (1) —

24.2.a

an order under paragraph  19  or  20  may be recalled or varied by a sheriff
on a written application made to the sheriff by any person subject to the
order;

24.2.b

unless the sheriff otherwise directs on grounds of urgency, the applicant
must, not less than 48 hours before making the application, send a copy of it
and a notice in writing of the time and place where the application is to be
made to the procurator fiscal on whose application the order was made.

###### Search, seizure and retention

25

25.1

The procurator fiscal may apply to a sheriff for the issue of a warrant under
this paragraph .

25.2

The sheriff may grant the application if satisfied that an order made under
paragraph 19  or  20  in relation to material on the relevant premises has not
been complied with.

25.3

The sheriff may also grant the application if satisfied that—

25.3.a

conditions 1 to 5 are met, and

25.3.b

in the case of an application for an all premises warrant, condition 6 is met.

25.4

Condition 1 is that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a
relevant act has been, or is about to be, committed.

25.5

Condition 2 is that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that there is
on the relevant premises material which is likely to be evidence that a
relevant act has been, or is about to be, committed.

25.6

Condition 3 is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the
material is likely to be of substantial value, whether by itself or with other
material, to an investigation into whether a relevant act has been, or is
about to be, committed.

25.7

Condition 4 is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that it is in
the public interest that the material should be obtained having regard to—

25.7.a

the benefit likely to accrue to the investigation if the material is obtained,
and

25.7.b

the circumstances under which the person concerned has any of the material in
their possession, custody or control.

25.8

Condition 5 is that any of the following apply—

25.8.a

it is not practicable to communicate with any person entitled to produce the
material;

25.8.b

it is not practicable to communicate with any person entitled to grant access
to the material;

25.8.c

the investigation may be seriously prejudiced unless a constable can secure
immediate access to the material.

25.9

Condition 6 is that it is not reasonably practicable to specify in the
application all the premises which the person specified in the application
occupies or controls and which might need to be searched.

25.10

A warrant under  this paragraph  is a warrant authorising any constable—

25.10.a

to enter the relevant premises,

25.10.b

to search the relevant premises and any person found there, and

25.10.c

to seize and retain any material found on a search under paragraph  (b)  which
is likely to be evidence that a relevant act has been, or is about to be,
committed.

25.11

In  this paragraph  the “relevant premises” are—

25.11.a

one or more sets of premises specified in the application (in which case the
application is for a “specific premises warrant”), or

25.11.b

any premises occupied or controlled by a person specified in the application,
including such sets of premises as are so specified (in which case the
application is for an “all premises warrant”).

###### Explanations

26

26.1

The procurator fiscal may apply to a sheriff for an order under  this
paragraph  requiring any person specified in the order to provide an
explanation of material—

26.1.a

seized under a warrant under paragraph  25 , or

26.1.b

produced or made available to a constable under paragraph  19  or  20 .

26.2

An application for an order under this paragraph may be made without notice to
a sheriff in chambers.

26.3

Without prejudice to paragraph  30 , an order under  this paragraph  may
require a lawyer to provide the name and address of their client.

26.4

A statement by a person in response to a requirement imposed by an order under
this paragraph  may only be used in evidence against the person—

26.4.a

on a prosecution for an offence under section 44(2) of the Criminal Law
(Consolidation) (Scotland) Act 1995, or

26.4.b

on a prosecution for some other offence where in giving evidence they make a
statement inconsistent with it.

26.5

Paragraphs 23  and  24  apply to orders under  this paragraph  as they apply
to orders made under  paragraph 19  or  20 .

###### Urgent cases

27

27.1

A police officer of at least the rank of superintendent may by a written order
signed by them give to any constable the authority which may be given by a
warrant under  paragraph 25  (subject to  sub-paragraph (2) ).

27.2

An order under  this paragraph  does not authorise a constable to retain
confidential journalistic material.

27.3

An officer may not make an order under  this paragraph  unless the officer—

27.3.a

is satisfied as mentioned in  paragraph 25 (2)  or  (3) , and

27.3.b

has reasonable grounds for believing that the case is one of great emergency
and that immediate action is necessary.

27.4

Where an order is made under  this paragraph  particulars of the case must be
notified as soon as is reasonably practicable to the Secretary of State.

27.5

A person who wilfully obstructs a search under  this paragraph  commits an
offence.

27.6

A person who commits an offence under  sub-paragraph (5)  is liable on summary
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or a fine not
exceeding level 4 on the standard scale (or both).

27.7

“ Confidential journalistic material ” has the same meaning as in the
Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (see section 264(6) and (7) of that Act).

28

28.1

This paragraph  applies where confidential journalistic material is seized by
virtue of an order under  paragraph 27 .

28.2

The procurator fiscal may apply to a sheriff for the issue of a warrant under
this paragraph .

28.3

An application under  sub-paragraph (2)  must be made as soon as reasonably
practicable.

28.4

The sheriff may grant an application under  sub-paragraph (2)  if satisfied
that conditions 1 to 3 are met.

28.5

Condition 1 is that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a
relevant act has been, or is about to be, committed.

28.6

Condition 2 is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the
material is likely to be of substantial value, whether by itself or with other
material, to an investigation into whether a relevant act has been, or is
about to be, committed.

28.7

Condition 3 is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that it is in
the public interest that the material should be retained having regard to the
benefit likely to accrue to the investigation if the material is retained.

28.8

A warrant under  this paragraph  is a warrant authorising the retention of
confidential journalistic material.

28.9

A warrant under  this paragraph  may impose conditions on the retention and
use of the material.

28.10

If the sheriff does not grant an application for the issue of a warrant under
this paragraph  in relation to any of the material to which the application
relates, the sheriff may direct that the material is—

28.10.a

returned to the person from whom it was seized, or

28.10.b

destroyed.

28.11

“ Confidential journalistic material ” has the same meaning as in  paragraph
27 .

29

29.1

If a police officer of at least the rank of superintendent has reasonable
grounds for believing that the case is one of great emergency the officer may
by a written notice signed by them require any person specified in the notice
to provide an explanation of any material seized in pursuance of an order
under paragraph  27 .

29.2

Paragraph  26 (3)  and  (4)  apply to a notice under  this paragraph  as they
apply to an order under that paragraph.

29.3

A person who fails to comply with a notice under  this paragraph  commits an
offence.

29.4

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under  sub-paragraph (3)
to show that they had a reasonable excuse for their failure.

29.5

A person is taken to have shown that they had a reasonable excuse for their
failure if—

29.5.a

sufficient evidence of that fact is adduced to raise an issue with respect to
it, and

29.5.b

the contrary is not proved beyond reasonable doubt.

29.6

A person guilty of an offence under  sub-paragraph (3)  is liable on summary
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a fine not
exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both).

###### Supplementary

30

30.1

This Part  of  this Schedule  is without prejudice to any rule of law under
which—

30.1.a

communications between a professional legal adviser and their client, or

30.1.b

communications made in connection with or in contemplation of legal
proceedings and for the purposes of those proceedings,

are in legal proceedings protected from disclosure on the ground of
confidentiality.

30.2

For the purpose of exercising any powers conferred on them under  this Part
of  this Schedule  a constable may, if necessary, open lockfast places on
premises which they are entitled to enter in pursuance of an order under
paragraph 19  or  20 , a warrant under  paragraph 25  or an order under
paragraph  27 .

30.3

A search of a person under  this Part  of  this Schedule  may only be carried
out by a person of the same sex.

                 Disclosure orders

Section 24

##### England and Wales and Northern Ireland

###### Introductory

1

1.1

This Part of this Schedule applies in England and Wales and Northern Ireland.

1.2

“ Relevant investigation ” means an investigation into the identification of
relevant property or its movement or use.

1.3

“ Relevant property ” means—

1.3.a

money or other property which is likely to be used for the purposes of foreign
power threat activity, or

1.3.b

proceeds of involvement in foreign power threat activity.

1.4

The reference to proceeds of involvement in foreign power threat activity
includes a reference to any money, other property or benefit in money’s worth,
which wholly or partly, and directly or indirectly, represents the proceeds of
the involvement (including payments or rewards in connection with the
involvement).

1.5

“ Appropriate officer ” means—

1.5.a

a constable, or

1.5.b

a National Crime Agency officer.

###### Disclosure orders

2

2.1

An appropriate officer may apply to a judge for a disclosure order.

2.2

The application must state that a person or property specified in the
application is subject to a relevant investigation and the order is sought for
the purposes of the investigation.

2.3

The judge may grant the application if satisfied that conditions 1 to 3 are
met.

2.4

Condition 1 is that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the
property specified in the application is relevant property.

2.5

Condition 2 is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that
information which may be provided in compliance with a requirement imposed
under the order is likely to be of substantial value, whether by itself or
with other information, to the investigation.

2.6

Condition 3 is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that it is in
the public interest for the information to be provided, having regard to the
benefit likely to accrue to the investigation if the information is obtained.

2.7

A disclosure order is an order authorising an appropriate officer to give to
any person the officer considers has relevant information notice in writing
requiring the person to do any or all of the following with respect to any
matter relevant to the investigation—

2.7.a

answer questions, either at a time specified in the notice or at once, at a
place so specified;

2.7.b

provide information specified in the notice, by a time and in a manner so
specified;

2.7.c

produce documents, or documents of a description, specified in the notice,
either at or by a time so specified or at once, and in a manner so specified.

2.8

“ Relevant information ” means information (whether or not contained in a
document) which the appropriate officer considers to be relevant to the
investigation.

2.9

A person is not bound to comply with a requirement imposed by a notice given
under a disclosure order unless evidence of authority to give the notice is
produced.

2.10

An appropriate officer may not make an application under this paragraph unless
the officer is a senior officer or is authorised to do so by a senior officer.

###### Supplementary provision

3

3.1

A disclosure order does not confer the right to require a person—

3.1.a

to answer any question,

3.1.b

to provide any information, or

3.1.c

to produce any document or other material,

which the person would be entitled to refuse to answer, provide or produce on
grounds of legal professional privilege in proceedings in the High Court.

3.2

But a lawyer may be required to provide the name and address of a client.

3.3

A disclosure order does not confer the right to require a person to produce
excluded material.

3.4

A disclosure order has effect despite any restriction on the disclosure of
information imposed by an enactment or otherwise.

3.5

An appropriate officer may take copies of any documents produced in compliance
with a requirement to produce them imposed under a disclosure order.

3.6

The documents may be retained for so long as it is necessary to retain them
(as opposed to a copy of them) in connection with the investigation for the
purposes of which the order was made.

3.7

But if an appropriate officer has reasonable grounds for believing that—

3.7.a

the documents may need to be produced for the purposes of any legal
proceedings, and

3.7.b

they might otherwise be unavailable for those purposes,

they may be retained until the proceedings are concluded.

3.8

An appropriate officer may retain documents under sub-paragraph  (7)  only if
the officer is a senior officer or is authorised to do so by a senior officer.

###### Applications

4

An application for a disclosure order may be made without notice to a judge in
chambers.

###### Discharge or variation

5

5.1

An application to discharge or vary a disclosure order may be made to the
Crown Court by—

5.1.a

the person who applied for the order;

5.1.b

any person affected by the order.

5.2

If the application for the disclosure order was made by a constable, an
application to discharge or vary the order may be made by a different
constable.

5.3

If the application for the disclosure order was made by a National Crime
Agency officer, an application to discharge or vary the order may be made by a
different National Crime Agency officer.

5.4

An appropriate officer may not make an application to discharge or vary a
disclosure order unless the officer is a senior officer or is authorised to do
so by a senior officer.

5.5

The Crown Court may—

5.5.a

discharge the order;

5.5.b

vary the order.

###### Rules of court

6

Rules of court may make provision as to the practice and procedure to be
followed in connection with proceedings relating to disclosure orders.

###### Offences

7

7.1

A person commits an offence if without reasonable excuse the person fails to
comply with a requirement imposed under a disclosure order.

7.2

A person guilty of an offence under sub-paragraph  (1)  is liable—

7.2.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the maximum term for summary offences or a fine (or both);

7.2.b

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or
both).

7.3

A person commits an offence if, in purported compliance with a requirement
imposed under a disclosure order, the person—

7.3.a

makes a statement which the person knows to be false or misleading in a
material particular, or

7.3.b

recklessly makes a statement which is false or misleading in a material
particular.

7.4

A person guilty of an offence under sub-paragraph  (3)  is liable—

7.4.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years
or a fine (or both);

7.4.b

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

7.4.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both).

###### Statements

8

8.1

A statement made by a person in response to a requirement imposed under a
disclosure order may not be used in evidence against that person in criminal
proceedings.

8.2

Sub-paragraph  (1)  does not apply on a prosecution for—

8.2.a

an offence under paragraph  7 (3) ,

8.2.b

an offence under section 5 of the Perjury Act 1911 or Article 10 of the
Perjury (Northern Ireland) Order 1979 ( S.I. 1979/1714 (N.I. 19) ) (false
statements), or

8.2.c

some other offence where, in giving evidence, the person makes a statement
inconsistent with the statement mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1) .

8.3

A statement may not be used against a person by virtue of sub-paragraph  (2)
(c)  unless—

8.3.a

evidence relating to it is adduced, or

8.3.b

a question relating to it is asked,

by or on behalf of the person in the proceedings arising out of the
prosecution.

###### Interpretation

9

9.1

This paragraph applies for the interpretation of this Part of this Schedule.

9.2

“ Disclosure order ” has the meaning given by paragraph  2 .

9.3

“ Judge ” means—

9.3.a

in relation to England and Wales, a judge entitled to exercise the
jurisdiction of the Crown Court;

9.3.b

in relation to Northern Ireland, a judge of the Crown Court.

9.4

“ Senior officer ” means—

9.4.a

a constable of at least the rank of superintendent;

9.4.b

the Director General of the National Crime Agency or any other National Crime
Agency officer authorised by the Director General (whether generally or
specifically) for this purpose.

9.5

“ Document ” means anything in which information of any description is
recorded.

9.6

“Excluded material”—

9.6.a

in relation to England and Wales, has the same meaning as in the Police and
Criminal Evidence Act 1984;

9.6.b

in relation to Northern Ireland, has the same meaning as in the Police and
Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/1341 (N.I. 12) ).

9.7

The terms defined in paragraph  1  have the meanings given in that paragraph.

##### Scotland

###### Introductory

10

10.1

This Part of this Schedule applies in Scotland.

10.2

In this Part of this Schedule “ relevant investigation ” and “ relevant
property ” have the same meaning as in Part  1  of this Schedule.

###### Disclosure orders

11

11.1

The Lord Advocate may apply to the High Court of Justiciary for a disclosure
order.

11.2

The application must state that a person or property specified in the
application is subject to a relevant investigation and the order is sought for
the purposes of the investigation.

11.3

The court may grant the application if satisfied that conditions 1 to 3 are
met.

11.4

Condition 1 is that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the
property specified in the application is relevant property.

11.5

Condition 2 is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that
information which may be provided in compliance with a requirement imposed
under the order is likely to be of substantial value, whether by itself or
with other information, to the investigation.

11.6

Condition 3 is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that it is in
the public interest for the information to be provided, having regard to the
benefit likely to accrue to the investigation if the information is obtained.

11.7

A disclosure order is an order authorising the Lord Advocate to give to any
person the Lord Advocate considers has relevant information notice in writing
requiring the person to do any or all of the following with respect to any
matter relevant to the investigation—

11.7.a

answer questions, either at a time specified in the notice or at once, at a
place so specified;

11.7.b

provide information specified in the notice, by a time and in a manner so
specified;

11.7.c

produce documents, or documents of a description, specified in the notice,
either at or by a time so specified or at once, and in a manner so specified.

11.8

“ Relevant information ” means information (whether or not contained in a
document) which the Lord Advocate considers to be relevant to the
investigation.

11.9

A person is not bound to comply with a requirement imposed by a notice given
under a disclosure order unless evidence of authority to give the notice is
produced.

###### Supplementary provision

12

12.1

A disclosure order does not confer the right to require a person—

12.1.a

to answer any question,

12.1.b

to provide any information, or

12.1.c

to produce any document,

which the person would be entitled to refuse to answer, provide or produce in
legal proceedings on grounds of confidentiality of communications.

12.2

A disclosure order has effect despite any obligation as to secrecy or other
restriction on the disclosure of information imposed by an enactment or
otherwise.

12.3

The Lord Advocate may take copies of any documents produced in compliance with
a requirement to produce them imposed under a disclosure order.

12.4

The documents may be retained for so long as it is necessary to retain them
(as opposed to a copy of them) in connection with the investigation for the
purposes of which the order was made.

12.5

But if the Lord Advocate has reasonable grounds for believing that—

12.5.a

the documents may need to be produced for the purposes of any legal
proceedings, and

12.5.b

they might otherwise be unavailable for those purposes,

they may be retained until the proceedings are concluded.

###### Applications

13

An application for a disclosure order may be made without notice to a judge of
the High Court of Justiciary.

###### Discharge or variation

14

14.1

An application to discharge or vary a disclosure order may be made to the High
Court of Justiciary by—

14.1.a

the Lord Advocate;

14.1.b

any person affected by the order.

14.2

The High Court of Justiciary may—

14.2.a

discharge the order;

14.2.b

vary the order.

###### Rules of court

15

15.1

Provision may be made in rules of court as to the discharge and variation of
disclosure orders.

15.2

Rules of court are, without prejudice to section 305 of the Criminal Procedure
(Scotland) Act 1995, to be made by Act of Adjournal.

###### Offences

16

16.1

A person commits an offence if without reasonable excuse the person fails to
comply with a requirement imposed under a disclosure order.

16.2

A person guilty of an offence under sub-paragraph  (1)  is liable on summary
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a fine not
exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both).

16.3

A person commits an offence if, in purported compliance with a requirement
imposed under a disclosure order, the person—

16.3.a

makes a statement which the person knows to be false or misleading in a
material particular, or

16.3.b

recklessly makes a statement which is false or misleading in a material
particular.

16.4

A person guilty of an offence under sub-paragraph  (3)  is liable—

16.4.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both);

16.4.b

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or a
fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both).

###### Statements

17

17.1

A statement made by a person in response to a requirement imposed under a
disclosure order may not be used in evidence against that person in criminal
proceedings.

17.2

Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply on a prosecution for—

17.2.a

an offence under paragraph  16 (3) ,

17.2.b

perjury, or

17.2.c

some other offence where, in giving evidence, the person makes a statement
inconsistent with the statement mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1) .

17.3

A statement may not be used against a person by virtue of sub-paragraph  (2)
(c)  unless—

17.3.a

evidence relating to it is adduced, or

17.3.b

a question relating to it is asked,

by or on behalf of the person in the proceedings arising out of the
prosecution.

###### Interpretation

18

18.1

This paragraph applies for the interpretation of this Part of this Schedule.

18.2

“ Disclosure order ” has the meaning given by paragraph  11 .

18.3

“ Document ” means anything in which information of any description is
recorded.

                 Customer information orders

Section 25

##### Customer information orders

1

1.1

An appropriate officer may apply to a judge for a customer information order.

1.2

The judge may grant the application if satisfied that—

1.2.a

the order is sought for the purposes of an investigation into foreign power
threat activity, and

1.2.b

the order will enhance the effectiveness of the investigation.

1.3

“ Appropriate officer ” means—

1.3.a

in relation to England and Wales or Northern Ireland, a constable or a
National Crime Agency officer;

1.3.b

in relation to Scotland, the procurator fiscal.

1.4

The application must state that—

1.4.a

a person specified in the application is subject to an investigation within
sub-paragraph  (2) (a)  and the order is sought for the purposes of the
investigation;

1.4.b

the order is sought against the financial institution or financial
institutions specified in the application.

1.5

The application may specify—

1.5.a

all financial institutions,

1.5.b

a particular description, or particular descriptions, of financial
institutions, or

1.5.c

a particular financial institution or particular financial institutions.

1.6

A customer information order is an order authorising an appropriate officer to
give to a financial institution covered by the application notice in writing
requiring it to provide any customer information it has relating to the person
specified in the application.

1.7

The financial institution must provide the information at or by the time, and
in a manner, specified in the notice.

1.8

A financial institution is not bound to comply with a requirement imposed by a
notice given under a customer information order unless evidence of authority
to give the notice is produced.

1.9

An appropriate officer may not make an application under this paragraph unless
the officer is a senior officer or is authorised to do so by a senior officer.

1.10

Sub-paragraph  (9)  does not apply in relation to Scotland.

##### Supplementary provision

2

A customer information order has effect despite any obligation as to secrecy
or other restriction on the disclosure of information imposed by an enactment
or otherwise.

##### Applications

3

An application for a customer information order may be made without notice to
a judge in chambers.

##### Discharge or variation

4

4.1

An application to discharge or vary a customer information order may be made
to the court by—

4.1.a

the person who applied for the order;

4.1.b

any person affected by the order.

4.2

If the application for the customer information order was made by a constable,
an application to discharge or vary the order may be made by a different
constable.

4.3

If the application for the customer information order was made by a National
Crime Agency officer, an application to discharge or vary the order may be
made by a different National Crime Agency officer.

4.4

An appropriate officer may not make an application under this paragraph unless
the officer is a senior officer or is authorised to do so by a senior officer.

4.5

Sub-paragraph  (4)  does not apply in relation to Scotland.

4.6

The court may—

4.6.a

discharge the order;

4.6.b

vary the order.

##### Rules of court

5

5.1

Rules of court may make provision as to the practice and procedure to be
followed in connection with proceedings relating to customer information
orders.

5.2

In Scotland rules of court are, without prejudice to section 305 of the
Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995, to be made by Act of Adjournal.

##### Offences

6

6.1

A person commits an offence if without reasonable excuse the person fails to
comply with a requirement imposed under a customer information order.

6.2

A person guilty of an offence under sub-paragraph  (1)  is liable—

6.2.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the maximum term for summary offences or a fine (or both);

6.2.b

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or
both);

6.2.c

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6
months or a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both).

##### Statements

7

7.1

A statement made by a person in response to a requirement imposed under a
customer information order may not be used in evidence against them in
criminal proceedings.

7.2

Sub-paragraph  (1)  does not apply on a prosecution for an offence where, in
giving evidence, the person makes a statement inconsistent with the statement
mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1) .

7.3

A statement may not be used against a person by virtue of sub-paragraph  (2)
unless—

7.3.a

evidence relating to it is adduced, or

7.3.b

a question relating to it is asked,

by or on behalf of the person in the proceedings arising out of the
prosecution.

##### Interpretation

8

8.1

This paragraph applies for the interpretation of this Schedule.

8.2

“ Appropriate officer ” has the meaning given by paragraph  1 (3) .

8.3

“ The court ” means—

8.3.a

in relation to England and Wales or Northern Ireland, the Crown Court;

8.3.b

in relation to Scotland, the sheriff.

8.4

“Customer information”—

8.4.a

in relation to England and Wales or Northern Ireland, has the meaning given by
section 364 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002;

8.4.b

in relation to Scotland, has the meaning given by section 398 of that Act.

8.5

“ Financial institution ” has the same meaning as in Schedule 6 to the
Terrorism Act 2000 (see paragraph 6 of that Schedule).

8.6

“ Judge ” means—

8.6.a

in relation to England and Wales, a judge entitled to exercise the
jurisdiction of the Crown Court;

8.6.b

in relation to Northern Ireland, a judge of the Crown Court;

8.6.c

in relation to Scotland, the sheriff.

8.7

“ Senior officer ” means—

8.7.a

a constable of at least the rank of superintendent;

8.7.b

the Director General of the National Crime Agency or any other National Crime
Agency officer authorised by the Director General (whether generally or
specifically) for this purpose.

                 Account monitoring orders

Section 26

##### Account monitoring orders

1

1.1

An appropriate officer may apply to a judge for an account monitoring order.

1.2

The judge may grant the application if satisfied that—

1.2.a

the order is sought for the purposes of an investigation into foreign power
threat activity, and

1.2.b

the order will enhance the effectiveness of the investigation.

1.3

“ Appropriate officer ” means—

1.3.a

in relation to England and Wales or Northern Ireland, a constable or a
National Crime Agency officer;

1.3.b

in relation to Scotland, the procurator fiscal.

1.4

The application must state that the order is sought against the financial
institution specified in the application in relation to information which—

1.4.a

relates to an account or accounts held at the institution by the person
specified in the application (whether solely or jointly with another), and

1.4.b

is of the description so specified.

1.5

The application may specify information relating to—

1.5.a

all accounts held by the person specified in the application at the financial
institution so specified,

1.5.b

a particular description, or particular descriptions, of accounts so held, or

1.5.c

a particular account, or particular accounts, so held.

1.6

An account monitoring order is an order that the financial institution
specified in the application must—

1.6.a

for the period specified in the order,

1.6.b

in the manner so specified,

1.6.c

at or by the time or times so specified, and

1.6.d

at the place or places so specified,

provide information of the description specified in the application to an
appropriate officer.

1.7

The period stated in an account monitoring order must not exceed the period of
90 days beginning with the day on which the order is made.

##### Applications

2

An application for an account monitoring order may be made without notice to a
judge in chambers.

##### Discharge or variation

3

3.1

An application to discharge or vary an account monitoring order may be made to
the court by—

3.1.a

the person who applied for the order;

3.1.b

any person affected by the order.

3.2

If the application for the account monitoring order was made by a constable,
an application to discharge or vary the order may be made by a different
constable.

3.3

If the application for the account monitoring order was made by a National
Crime Agency officer, an application to discharge or vary the order may be
made by a different National Crime Agency officer.

3.4

The court may—

3.4.a

discharge the order;

3.4.b

vary the order.

##### Rules of court

4

4.1

Rules of court may make provision as to the practice and procedure to be
followed in connection with proceedings relating to account monitoring orders.

4.2

In Scotland rules of court are, without prejudice to section 305 of the
Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995, to be made by Act of Adjournal.

##### Effect of orders

5

5.1

In England and Wales and Northern Ireland, an account monitoring order has
effect as if it were an order of the court.

5.2

An account monitoring order has effect in spite of any obligation as to
secrecy or other restriction on the disclosure of information imposed by an
enactment or otherwise.

##### Statements

6

6.1

A statement made by a person in response to an account monitoring order may
not be used in evidence against them in criminal proceedings.

6.2

But sub-paragraph (1) does not apply—

6.2.a

in the case of proceedings for contempt of court;

6.2.b

on a prosecution for an offence where, in giving evidence, the person makes a
statement inconsistent with the statement mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1) .

6.3

A statement may not be used against a person by virtue of sub-paragraph  (2)
(b)  unless—

6.3.a

evidence relating to it is adduced, or

6.3.b

a question relating to it is asked,

by or on behalf of the person in the proceedings arising out of the
prosecution.

##### Interpretation

7

7.1

This paragraph applies for the interpretation of this Schedule.

7.2

“ Appropriate officer ” has the meaning given by paragraph  1 (3) .

7.3

“ The court ” means—

7.3.a

in relation to England and Wales or Northern Ireland, the Crown Court;

7.3.b

in relation to Scotland, the sheriff.

7.4

“ Financial institution ” has the same meaning as in Schedule 6 to the
Terrorism Act 2000 (see paragraph 6 of that Schedule).

7.5

“ Judge ” means—

7.5.a

in relation to England and Wales, a judge entitled to exercise the
jurisdiction of the Crown Court;

7.5.b

in relation to Northern Ireland, a judge of the Crown Court;

7.5.c

in relation to Scotland, the sheriff.

Detention under  section 27

Section 27

##### Treatment of persons detained under 

###### Place of detention

1

1.1

The Secretary of State may designate places at which persons may be detained
under  section 27 .

1.2

The power in sub-paragraph  (1)  may be exercised only in relation to land or
a building in the United Kingdom which is owned or controlled by a police
force.

1.3

In  this Schedule  a reference to a police station includes a reference to any
place which the Secretary of State has designated under  sub-paragraph (1)  as
a place where a person may be detained under  section 27 .

1.4

A constable who arrests a person under  section 27  must take the person as
soon as is reasonably practicable to the police station which the constable
considers the most appropriate.

1.5

Where a person is arrested under  section 27  in one part of the United
Kingdom and some or all of the person’s detention under that section takes
place in another part, the provisions of  this Schedule  which apply to
detention in a particular part of the United Kingdom apply in relation to the
person while detained in that part.

1.6

In this paragraph—

“ building ” includes any part of a building; “ police force ” has the same
meaning as in paragraph  28 .

###### Identification

2

2.1

An authorised person may take any steps which are reasonably necessary for—

2.1.a

photographing the detained person,

2.1.b

measuring the detained person, or

2.1.c

identifying the detained person.

2.2

In  sub-paragraph (1)  “ authorised person ” means any of the following—

2.2.a

a constable;

2.2.b

a prison officer;

2.2.c

a person authorised by the Secretary of State.

2.3

This paragraph  does not confer the power to take—

2.3.a

fingerprints, non-intimate samples or intimate samples (see instead
paragraphs 10  to  14  below), or

2.3.b

relevant physical data or samples as mentioned in section 18 of the Criminal
Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995, as applied by  paragraph 18  below.

###### Video recording of interviews

3

3.1

This paragraph  applies to any interview by a constable of a detained person
that takes place in a police station.

3.2

The Secretary of State must—

3.2.a

issue a code of practice about the video recording of interviews to which
this paragraph  applies, and

3.2.b

make regulations requiring the video recording of interviews to which  this
paragraph  applies in accordance with any relevant code of practice under
paragraph (a) .

3.3

Regulations under  sub-paragraph (2)  must state that the video recording is
to be with sound.

3.4

A code of practice under  this paragraph —

3.4.a

may make provision in relation to a particular part of the United Kingdom, and

3.4.b

may make different provision for different parts of the United Kingdom.

3.5

The failure by a constable to observe a provision of a code does not of itself
make the constable liable to criminal or civil proceedings.

3.6

A code—

3.6.a

is admissible in evidence in criminal and civil proceedings, and

3.6.b

is to be taken into account by a court or tribunal in any case in which it
appears to the court or tribunal to be relevant.

3.7

The Secretary of State may revise a code and issue the revised code.

4

4.1

Before issuing a code of practice under  paragraph 3 , the Secretary of State
must—

4.1.a

publish a draft code,

4.1.b

consider any representations made about the draft, and

4.1.c

if the Secretary of State thinks it appropriate, modify the draft in the light
of any such representations.

4.2

The Secretary of State must lay a draft of the code before Parliament.

4.3

After the code has been laid before Parliament the Secretary of State may
bring it into operation by regulations.

4.4

Sub-paragraphs (1)  to  (3)  apply to the issue of a revised code as they
apply to the first issue of the code.

###### Status

5

A detained person is to be treated as being in legal custody throughout the
period of the person’s detention.

##### Rights of persons detained under 

###### Right to have named person informed of detention

6

6.1

Subject to  paragraph 9 , a person detained under  section 27  at a place in
England, Wales or Northern Ireland is entitled, if the person so requests, to
have one named person informed as soon as is reasonably practicable that the
person is being detained there.

6.2

The person named must be—

6.2.a

a friend of the detained person,

6.2.b

a relative of the detained person, or

6.2.c

a person who is known to the detained person or who is likely to take an
interest in the detained person’s welfare.

6.3

A detained person must be informed of the right under  this paragraph  on
first being detained.

6.4

Where a detained person is transferred from one place to another, the person
is entitled to exercise the right under  this paragraph  in respect of the
place to which the person is transferred.

###### Right to consult a solicitor

7

7.1

Subject to  paragraph 9 , a person detained under  section 27  in England,
Wales or Northern Ireland is entitled, if the person so requests, to consult a
solicitor as soon as is reasonably practicable, privately and at any time.

7.2

Where a request is made under  sub-paragraph (1) , a record must be made of
the request and the time at which it was made.

7.3

A detained person must be informed of the right under  this paragraph  on
first being detained.

8

8.1

Where a person exercises the right under  paragraph 7  to consult a solicitor,
a police officer of at least the rank of superintendent may direct that—

8.1.a

the person may not consult the solicitor who attends for the purpose of the
consultation, or who would so attend but for the giving of the direction, but

8.1.b

the person may consult a different solicitor of the person’s choosing.

8.2

A direction under  this paragraph  may be given before or after a person’s
consultation with a solicitor has started (and if given after it has started,
the right to further consult that solicitor ceases on the giving of the
direction).

8.3

An officer may give a direction under  this paragraph  only if the officer has
reasonable grounds for believing that—

8.3.a

unless the direction is given, the person’s consultation with the solicitor
will have any of the consequences specified in  sub-paragraph (4) , or

8.3.b

the person has benefited from their criminal conduct and that, unless the
direction is given, the person’s consultation with the solicitor will hinder
the recovery of the value of the property constituting the benefit.

8.4

Those consequences are—

8.4.a

interference with or harm to evidence of an indictable offence,

8.4.b

interference with or physical injury to any person,

8.4.c

the alerting of persons who are suspected of having committed an indictable
offence but who have not been arrested for it,

8.4.d

the hindering of the recovery of property obtained as a result of an
indictable offence,

8.4.e

interference with the gathering of information about a person’s involvement in
foreign power threat activity,

8.4.f

making it more difficult, by the alerting of a person, to prevent foreign
power threat activity, and

8.4.g

making it more difficult, by the alerting of a person, to secure a person’s
apprehension, prosecution or conviction in connection with the person’s
involvement in foreign power threat activity.

8.5

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (3) (b) , the question whether a person has
benefited from their criminal conduct is to be decided in accordance with Part
2 or 4 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002.

###### Delay in exercise of rights

9

9.1

A police officer of at least the rank of superintendent may authorise a delay—

9.1.a

in informing the person named by a detained person under  paragraph 6 ;

9.1.b

in permitting a detained person to consult a solicitor under  paragraph 7 .

9.2

But the detained person must be permitted to exercise the rights under
paragraphs 6  and  7  before the end of the period mentioned in  section 27
(3) .

9.3

An officer may authorise a delay under  sub-paragraph (1)  only if the officer
has reasonable grounds for believing—

9.3.a

in the case of an authorisation under  sub-paragraph (1) (a) , that informing
the named person of the detained person’s detention will have any of the
consequences specified in  paragraph 8 (4) , or

9.3.b

in the case of an authorisation under  sub-paragraph (1) (b) , that the
exercise of the right under  paragraph 7  at the time when the detained person
desires to exercise it will have any of the consequences specified in
paragraph 8 (4) .

9.4

An officer may also authorise a delay under  sub-paragraph (1)  if the officer
has reasonable grounds for believing that—

9.4.a

the detained person has benefited from their criminal conduct, and

9.4.b

the recovery of the value of the property constituting the benefit will be
hindered by—

9.4.b.i

informing the named person of the detained person’s detention (in the case of
an authorisation under  sub-paragraph (1) (a) ), or

9.4.b.ii

the detained person’s consultation with a solicitor (in the case of an
authorisation under  sub-paragraph (1) (b) ).

9.5

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (4) , whether the detained person has
benefited from their criminal conduct is to be decided in accordance with Part
2 or 4 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002.

9.6

Where an officer authorises a delay under  sub-paragraph (1)  orally, the
officer must confirm it in writing as soon as is reasonably practicable.

9.7

Where an officer authorises a delay under  sub-paragraph (1) —

9.7.a

the detained person must be told the reason for the delay as soon as is
reasonably practicable, and

9.7.b

the reason must be recorded as soon as is reasonably practicable.

9.8

Where the reason for authorising delay no longer applies, there may be no
further delay in permitting the exercise of the right in the absence of a
further authorisation under  sub-paragraph (1) .

###### Taking of intimate and non-intimate samples

10

10.1

This paragraph  applies where a person is detained under  section 27  in
England, Wales or Northern Ireland.

10.2

Fingerprints may be taken from the detained person only if they are taken by a
constable—

10.2.a

with the appropriate consent given in writing, or

10.2.b

without that consent under  sub-paragraph (4) .

10.3

A non-intimate sample may be taken from the detained person only if it is
taken by a constable—

10.3.a

with the appropriate consent given in writing, or

10.3.b

without that consent under  sub-paragraph (4) .

10.4

Fingerprints or a non-intimate sample may be taken from the detained person
without the appropriate consent only if—

10.4.a

the person is detained at a police station and a police officer of at least
the rank of superintendent authorises the fingerprints or sample to be taken
(but see  sub-paragraphs (6)  and  (7) ), or

10.4.b

the person has been convicted of a recordable offence and, where a non-
intimate sample is to be taken, the person was convicted of the offence on or
after 10th April 1995 (or 29th July 1996 where the non-intimate sample is to
be taken in Northern Ireland).

10.5

An intimate sample may be taken from the detained person only if—

10.5.a

the person is detained at a police station,

10.5.b

the appropriate consent is given in writing,

10.5.c

a police officer of at least the rank of superintendent authorises the sample
to be taken (but see  sub-paragraph (6) ), and

10.5.d

subject to  paragraph 13 (2)  and  (3) , the sample is taken by a constable.

10.6

An officer may give an authorisation under  sub-paragraph (4) (a)  or  (5) (c)
only if—

10.6.a

the officer reasonably suspects that the detained person has been involved in
foreign power threat activity, and

10.6.b

the officer reasonably believes that the fingerprints or sample will tend to
confirm or disprove the person’s involvement.

10.7

An officer may also give an authorisation under  sub-paragraph (4) (a)  for
the taking of fingerprints if—

10.7.a

the officer is satisfied that the detained person’s fingerprints will help
determine the person’s identity, and

10.7.b

the person has refused to identify themselves or the officer has reasonable
grounds for suspecting that the person is not who they claim to be.

10.8

In  this paragraph  references to determining a person’s identity include
showing that the detained person is not a particular person.

10.9

If an authorisation under  sub-paragraph (4) (a)  or  (5) (c)  is given
orally, the person giving it must confirm it in writing as soon as is
reasonably practicable.

11

11.1

Before fingerprints or a sample are taken from a detained person under
paragraph 10 , the person must be informed—

11.1.a

that the fingerprints or sample may be used for the purposes of—

11.1.a.i

a relevant search (within the meaning given by  paragraph 19 (6) ),

11.1.a.ii

section 63A(1) of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (checking of
fingerprints and samples), or

11.1.a.iii

Article 63A(1) of the Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order
1989 ( S.I. 1989/1341 (N.I. 12) ) (checking of fingerprints and samples), and

11.1.b

where the fingerprints or sample are to be taken under  paragraph 10 (2) (a) ,
(3) (a)  or  (4) (b) , of the reason for taking the fingerprints or sample.

11.2

Before fingerprints or a sample are taken from a person on an authorisation
given under  paragraph 10 (4) (a)  or  (5) (c) , the person must be informed—

11.2.a

that the authorisation has been given,

11.2.b

of the grounds upon which it has been given, and

11.2.c

where relevant, of the nature of the offence in which the person is suspected
of having been involved.

11.3

After fingerprints or a sample are taken under  paragraph 10 , any of the
following which apply must be recorded as soon as reasonably practicable—

11.3.a

the fact that the person has been informed in accordance with  sub-paragraphs
(1)  and  (2) ,

11.3.b

the reason referred to in  sub-paragraph (1) (b) ,

11.3.c

the authorisation given under  paragraph 10 (4) (a)  or  (5) (c) ,

11.3.d

the grounds on which that authorisation has been given, and

11.3.e

the fact that the appropriate consent has been given.

12

12.1

This paragraph  applies where—

12.1.a

two or more non-intimate samples suitable for the same means of analysis have
been taken from a detained person under  paragraph 10 ,

12.1.b

those samples have proved insufficient, and

12.1.c

the person has been released from detention.

12.2

An intimate sample may be taken from the person if—

12.2.a

the appropriate consent is given in writing,

12.2.b

a police officer of at least the rank of superintendent authorises the sample
to be taken, and

12.2.c

subject to  paragraph 13 (2)  and  (3) , the sample is taken by a constable.

12.3

Paragraphs 10 (6)  and (9) and  11  apply in relation to the taking of an
intimate sample under  this paragraph  as if references to a detained person
are references to a person who was detained under  section 27  when the non-
intimate samples mentioned in  sub-paragraph (1) (a)  were taken.

13

13.1

Where appropriate written consent to the taking of an intimate sample from a
person under  paragraph 10  or  12  is refused without good cause, in any
proceedings against that person for an offence—

13.1.a

the court, in determining whether to commit the person for trial or whether
there is a case to answer, may draw such inferences from the refusal as appear
proper, and

13.1.b

the court or jury, in determining whether that person is guilty of the offence
charged, may draw such inferences from the refusal as appear proper.

13.2

An intimate sample other than a sample of urine or a dental impression may be
taken under  paragraph 10  or  12  only by a registered medical practitioner
acting on the authority of a constable.

13.3

An intimate sample which is a dental impression may be taken under  paragraph
10  or  12  only by a registered dentist acting on the authority of a
constable.

13.4

Where a sample of hair other than pubic hair is to be taken under  paragraph
10 , the sample may be taken either by cutting hairs or by plucking hairs with
their roots so long as no more are plucked than the person taking the sample
reasonably considers to be necessary for a sufficient sample.

14

14.1

In the application of  paragraphs 10  to  13  in relation to a person detained
in England or Wales, the following expressions have the meaning given by
section 65 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984—

14.1.a

“appropriate consent”,

14.1.b

“fingerprints”,

14.1.c

“insufficient”,

14.1.d

“intimate sample”,

14.1.e

“non-intimate sample”,

14.1.f

“registered dentist”, and

14.1.g

“sufficient”.

14.2

In the application of section 65(2A) of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act
1984 for the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1)  of  this paragraph , the
reference to the destruction of a sample under section 63R of that Act is a
reference to the destruction of a sample under  paragraph 25  of  this
Schedule .

14.3

In the application of  paragraphs 10  to  13  in relation to a person detained
in Northern Ireland, the expressions listed in  sub-paragraph (1)  have the
meaning given by Article 53 of the Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern
Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/1341 (N.I. 12) ).

14.4

In  paragraph 10  “recordable offence”—

14.4.a

in relation to a person detained in England or Wales, has the meaning given by
section 118(1) of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984, and

14.4.b

in relation to a person detained in Northern Ireland, has the meaning given by
Article 2(2) of the Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989
( S.I. 1989/1341 (N.I. 12) ).

##### Rights of persons detained under 

15

15.1

A person detained under  section 27  at a place in Scotland is entitled to
have intimation of the person’s detention and of the place where the person is
being detained sent without delay to a solicitor and to another person named
by the detained person.

15.2

The person named must be—

15.2.a

a friend of the detained person,

15.2.b

a relative of the detained person, or

15.2.c

a person who is known to the detained person or who is likely to take an
interest in the detained person’s welfare.

15.3

Where a detained person is transferred from one place to another, the person
is entitled to exercise the right under  sub-paragraph (1)  in respect of the
place to which the person is transferred.

15.4

A police officer of at least the rank of superintendent may authorise a delay
in making intimation where, in the officer’s view, the delay is necessary on
one of the grounds mentioned in  paragraph 16 (3)  or where  paragraph 16 (4)
applies.

15.5

Where a detained person requests that the intimation be made, a record must be
made of the time at which the request was made and complied with.

15.6

A person who is detained as mentioned in  sub-paragraph (1)  is entitled to
consult a solicitor at any time, without delay.

15.7

A police officer of at least the rank of superintendent may authorise a delay
in holding the consultation where, in the officer’s view, the delay is
necessary on one of the grounds mentioned in  paragraph 16 (3)  or where
paragraph 16 (4)  applies.

15.8

The consultation is to be private.

15.9

A detained person must be permitted to exercise the rights under  this
paragraph  before the end of the period mentioned in  section 27 (3) .

15.10

A detained person must be informed of the rights under  sub-paragraphs (1)
and  (6)  on first being detained.

16

16.1

Where a person exercises the right under  paragraph 15 (6)  to consult a
solicitor, a police officer of at least the rank of superintendent may, if it
appears to the officer to be necessary on one of the grounds mentioned in
sub-paragraph (3) , direct that—

16.1.a

the person may not consult the solicitor who attends for the purpose of the
consultation, or who would so attend but for the giving of the direction, but

16.1.b

the person may consult a different solicitor of the person’s choosing.

16.2

A direction under  this paragraph  may be given before or after a detained
person’s consultation with a solicitor has started (and, if given after it has
started, the right to further consult that solicitor ceases on the giving of
the direction).

16.3

The grounds mentioned in  paragraph 15 (4)  and  (7)  and in  sub-paragraph
(1)  are—

16.3.a

that it is in the interests of the investigation or prevention of crime;

16.3.b

that it is in the interests of the apprehension, prosecution or conviction of
offenders;

16.3.c

that it will further the recovery of property obtained as a result of an
indictable offence;

16.3.d

that it will further the operation of Part 2, 3 or 4 of the Proceeds of Crime
Act 2002 (confiscation of the proceeds of an offence).

16.4

This sub-paragraph applies where an officer mentioned in  paragraph 15 (4)  or
(7)  has reasonable grounds for believing that—

16.4.a

the detained person has benefited from their criminal conduct, and

16.4.b

the recovery of the value of the property constituting the benefit will be
hindered by—

16.4.b.i

informing the named person of the detained person’s detention (in the case of
an authorisation under  paragraph 15 (4) ), or

16.4.b.ii

the exercise of the entitlement under  paragraph 15 (6)  (in the case of an
authorisation under  paragraph 15 (7) ).

16.5

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (4) , whether the detained person has
benefited from their criminal conduct is to be decided in accordance with Part
3 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002.

16.6

Where delay is authorised in the exercising of any of the rights mentioned in
paragraph 15 (1)  and  (6) —

16.6.a

if the authorisation is given orally, the person giving it must confirm it in
writing as soon as is reasonably practicable,

16.6.b

the detained person must be told the reason for the delay as soon as is
reasonably practicable, and

16.6.c

the reason must be recorded as soon as is reasonably practicable.

17

17.1

Paragraphs 15  and  16  have effect, in relation to a person detained under
section 27 , in place of any enactment or rule of law under or by virtue of
which a person arrested or detained may be entitled to communicate or consult
with any other person.

17.2

But, where a person who is detained under  section 27  at a place in Scotland
appears to a constable to be a child—

17.2.a

the other person named by the person detained in pursuance of  paragraph 15
(1)  must be that person’s parent,

17.2.b

intimation is to be made under  paragraph 15 (1)  whether the detained person
requests that it be made or not, and

17.2.c

section 40 of the  Criminal Justice (Scotland) Act 2016 (asp 1)  (right of
under 18s to have access to other person) applies as if the detained person
were a person in police custody for the purposes of that section.

17.3

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (2) —

“ child ” means a person under 16 years of age; “ parent ” includes guardian
and any person who has the care of the child mentioned in  sub-paragraph (2) .

18

18.1

Subject to the modifications specified in sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), section
18 of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 (procedure for taking certain
prints and samples) applies to a person detained under  section 27  at a
police station in Scotland as it applies to a person arrested.

18.2

For subsection (2) of section 18 substitute—

18.2.2

Subject to subsection (2A), a constable may take from a detained person or
require a detained person to provide relevant physical data only if—

18.2.2.a

the constable reasonably suspects that the person has been involved in foreign
power threat activity, and

18.2.2.b

the constable reasonably believes that the relevant physical data will tend to
confirm or disprove the person’s involvement.

18.2.2A

A constable may also take fingerprints from a detained person or require the
person to provide them if—

18.2.2A.a

the constable is satisfied that the person’s fingerprints will help determine
their identity, and

18.2.2A.b

the person has refused to identify themselves or the constable has reasonable
grounds for suspecting that the person is not who they claim to be.

18.2.2B

In this section references to determining a person’s identity include
references to showing that a detained person is not a particular person.

18.3

Subsections (3) to (5)  of section 18 do not apply.

##### Dealing with fingerprints and samples etc: United Kingdom

###### Retention of fingerprints and samples etc: general

19

19.1

This paragraph  applies to—

19.1.a

fingerprints taken under  paragraph 10 ,

19.1.b

a DNA profile derived from a DNA sample taken under  paragraph 10  or  12 ,

19.1.c

relevant physical data taken or provided by virtue of  paragraph 18 , and

19.1.d

a DNA profile derived from a DNA sample taken or provided by virtue of
paragraph 18 .

19.2

Fingerprints, relevant physical data and DNA profiles to which  this paragraph
applies (“ paragraph 19  material”) must be destroyed if it appears to the
responsible chief officer of police that—

19.2.a

the material, or, in the case of a DNA profile, the sample from which the DNA
profile was derived, was taken or required to be provided unlawfully, or

19.2.b

the material was taken or provided, or, in the case of a DNA profile, was
derived from a sample taken, from a person in connection with that person’s
arrest under  section 27  and the arrest was unlawful or based on mistaken
identity.

19.3

In any other case,  paragraph 19  material must be destroyed unless it is
retained under any power conferred by  paragraphs 20  or  22 .

19.4

Where the retention of  paragraph 19  material ceases to be allowed under
paragraph 20  or  22 , the material may continue to be retained under any
other such power which applies to it.

19.5

Nothing in  this paragraph  prevents a relevant search, in relation to
paragraph 19  material, from being carried out within such time as may
reasonably be required for the search if the responsible chief officer of
police considers the search to be desirable.

19.6

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (5) , a “relevant search” is a search
carried out for the purpose of checking the material against—

19.6.a

other fingerprints or samples taken under  paragraph 10  or  12 , or a DNA
profile derived from such samples,

19.6.b

other fingerprints and samples taken under  paragraph 1  of  Schedule 12 , or
a DNA profile derived from such samples,

19.6.c

any of the fingerprints, samples and information mentioned in section
63A(1)(a) and (b) of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984,

19.6.d

any of the fingerprints, samples and information mentioned in Article
63A(1)(a) and (b) of the Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order
1989 ( S.I. 1989/1341 (N.I. 12) ),

19.6.e

any of the relevant physical data, samples or information mentioned in section
19C(1) of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995,

19.6.f

any of the fingerprints, data or samples obtained under or by virtue of
paragraphs 10 or 12 of Schedule 8 to the Terrorism Act 2000, or information
derived from such samples,

19.6.g

any of the relevant physical data, samples or information held by virtue of
section 56 of the  Criminal Justice (Scotland) Act 2003 (asp 7) ,

19.6.h

material to which section 18 of the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 applies,

19.6.i

any of the fingerprints, data or samples obtained under paragraph 1 or 4 of
Schedule 6 to the Terrorism Prevention and Investigation Measures Act 2011, or
information derived from such samples, and

19.6.j

any of the fingerprints, data or samples obtained under or by virtue of
paragraph 34 of Schedule 3 to the Counter-Terrorism and Border Security Act
2019, or information derived from such samples.

20

20.1

This paragraph  applies to  paragraph 19  material relating to a person who is
detained under  section 27 .

20.2

Paragraph 19 material may be retained indefinitely if—

20.2.a

the person has previously been convicted—

20.2.a.i

of a recordable offence (other than a single exempt conviction), or

20.2.a.ii

in Scotland, of an offence which is punishable by imprisonment, or

20.2.b

the person is so convicted before the end of the period within which the
material may be retained by virtue of this paragraph.

20.3

In sub-paragraph (2)—

20.3.a

the reference to a recordable offence includes an offence under the law of a
country or territory outside the United Kingdom where the act constituting the
offence would constitute—

20.3.a.i

a recordable offence under the law of England and Wales if done there, or

20.3.a.ii

a recordable offence under the law of Northern Ireland if done there,

(and, in the application of sub-paragraph (2) where a person has previously
been convicted, this applies whether or not the act constituted such an
offence when the person was convicted);

20.3.b

the reference to an offence in Scotland which is punishable by imprisonment
includes an offence under the law of a country or territory outside the United
Kingdom where the act constituting the offence would constitute an offence
under the law of Scotland which is punishable by imprisonment if done there
(and, in the application of sub-paragraph (2) where a person has previously
been convicted, this applies whether or not the act constituted such an
offence when the person was convicted).

20.4

Paragraph 19 material may be retained until the end of the retention period
specified in sub-paragraph (5) if—

20.4.a

the person has no previous convictions, or

20.4.b

the person has only one exempt conviction.

20.5

The retention period is—

20.5.a

in the case of fingerprints or relevant physical data, the period of 3 years
beginning with the date on which the fingerprints or relevant physical data
were taken or provided, and

20.5.b

in the case of a DNA profile, the period of 3 years beginning with the date on
which the DNA sample from which the profile was derived was taken (or, if the
profile was derived from more than one DNA sample, the date on which the first
of those samples was taken).

20.6

The responsible chief officer of police or a specified chief officer of police
may apply to a relevant court for an order extending the retention period.

20.7

An application for an order under  sub-paragraph (6)  must be made within the
period of 3 months ending with the last day of the retention period.

20.8

An order under  sub-paragraph (6)  may extend the retention period by a period
which—

20.8.a

begins with the date on which the material would otherwise be required to be
destroyed under  this paragraph , and

20.8.b

ends with the end of the period of 2 years beginning with that date.

20.9

The following persons may appeal to the relevant appeal court against an order
under  sub-paragraph (6)  or a refusal to make such an order—

20.9.a

the responsible chief officer of police;

20.9.b

a specified chief officer of police;

20.9.c

the person from whom the material was taken.

20.10

In Scotland—

20.10.a

an application for an order under  sub-paragraph (6)  is to be made by summary
application;

20.10.b

an appeal against an order under  sub-paragraph (6) , or a refusal to make
such an order, must be made within 21 days of the relevant court’s decision,
and the relevant appeal court’s decision on any such appeal is final.

20.11

Nothing in  this paragraph  prevents the start of a new retention period in
relation to  paragraph 19  material if a person is detained again under
section 27  when an existing retention period (whether or not extended) is
still in force in relation to that material.

20.12

In  this paragraph —

“ relevant court ” means— in England and Wales, a District Judge (Magistrates’
Courts), in Scotland, the sheriff— in whose sheriffdom the person to whom the
material relates resides, in whose sheriffdom that person is believed by the
applicant to be, or to whose sheriffdom that person is believed by the
applicant to be intending to come, and in Northern Ireland, a district judge
(magistrates’ court) in Northern Ireland; the “ relevant appeal court ” means—
in England and Wales, the Crown Court, in Scotland, the Sheriff Appeal Court,
and in Northern Ireland, the County Court; a “ specified chief officer of
police ” means— in England and Wales— the chief officer of the police force of
the area in which the person from whom the material was taken resides, or a
chief officer of police who believes that the person is in, or is intending to
come to, the chief officer’s police area, and the chief constable of the
Police Service of Scotland, where— the person who provided the material, or
from whom it was taken, resides in Scotland, or the chief constable believes
that the person is in, or is intending to come to, Scotland, and the Chief
Constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland, where— the person from
whom the material was taken resides in Northern Ireland, or the chief
constable believes that the person is in, or is intending to come to, Northern
Ireland.

21

21.1

For the purposes of  paragraph 20 , a person is to be treated as having been
convicted of an offence if—

21.1.a

in relation to a recordable offence in England and Wales or Northern Ireland—

21.1.a.i

the person has been given a caution or youth caution in respect of the offence
which, at the time of the caution, the person has admitted,

21.1.a.ii

the person has been found not guilty of the offence by reason of insanity, or

21.1.a.iii

the person has been found to be under a disability and to have done the act
charged in respect of the offence,

21.1.b

the person, in relation to an offence in Scotland punishable by imprisonment,
has accepted or has been deemed to accept—

21.1.b.i

a conditional offer under section 302 of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act
1995,

21.1.b.ii

a compensation offer under section 302A of that Act,

21.1.b.iii

a combined offer under section 302B of that Act, or

21.1.b.iv

a work offer under section 303ZA of that Act,

21.1.c

the person, in relation to an offence in Scotland punishable by imprisonment,
has been acquitted on account of the person’s insanity at the time of the
offence or (as the case may be) by virtue of section 51A of the Criminal
Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995,

21.1.d

a finding in respect of the person has been made under section 55(2) of the
Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 in relation to an offence in Scotland
punishable by imprisonment,

21.1.e

the person, having been given a fixed penalty notice under section 129(1) of
the  Antisocial Behaviour etc. (Scotland) Act 2004 (asp 8)  in connection with
an offence in Scotland punishable by imprisonment, has paid—

21.1.e.i

the fixed penalty, or

21.1.e.ii

(as the case may be) the sum which the person is liable to pay by virtue of
section 131(5) of that Act, or

21.1.f

the person, in relation to an offence in Scotland punishable by imprisonment,
has been discharged absolutely by order under section 246(3) of the Criminal
Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995.

21.2

Paragraph  20  and this paragraph, so far as they relate to persons convicted
of an offence, have effect despite anything in the Rehabilitation of Offenders
Act 1974 or the Rehabilitation of Offenders (Northern Ireland) Order 1978 (
S.I. 1978/1908 (N.I. 27) ).

21.3

But a person is not to be treated as having been convicted of an offence if
that conviction is a disregarded conviction or caution by virtue of section 92
or 101A of the Protection of Freedoms Act 2012.

21.4

For the purposes of  paragraph 20 —

21.4.a

a person has no previous convictions if the person has not previously been
convicted—

21.4.a.i

in England and Wales or Northern Ireland of a recordable offence, or

21.4.a.ii

in Scotland of an offence which is punishable by imprisonment, and

21.4.b

if the person has previously been convicted of a recordable offence in England
and Wales or Northern Ireland, the conviction is exempt if it is in respect of
a recordable offence, other than a qualifying offence, committed when the
person was under 18 years of age.

21.5

In sub-paragraph  (4)  “qualifying offence”—

21.5.a

in relation to a conviction in respect of a recordable offence committed in
England and Wales, has the meaning given by section 65A of the Police and
Criminal Evidence Act 1984, and

21.5.b

in relation to a conviction in respect of a recordable offence committed in
Northern Ireland, has the meaning given by Article 53A of the Police and
Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/1341 (N.I. 12) ).

21.6

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (4) —

21.6.a

a person is to be treated as having previously been convicted in England and
Wales of a recordable offence if—

21.6.a.i

the person has previously been convicted of an offence under the law of a
country or territory outside the United Kingdom, and

21.6.a.ii

the act constituting the offence would constitute a recordable offence under
the law of England and Wales if done there (whether or not it constituted such
an offence when the person was convicted);

21.6.b

a person is to be treated as having previously been convicted in Northern
Ireland of a recordable offence if—

21.6.b.i

the person has previously been convicted of an offence under the law of a
country or territory outside the United Kingdom, and

21.6.b.ii

the act constituting the offence would constitute a recordable offence under
the law of Northern Ireland if done there (whether or not it constituted such
an offence when the person was convicted);

21.6.c

a person is to be treated as having previously been convicted in Scotland of
an offence which is punishable by imprisonment if—

21.6.c.i

the person has previously been convicted of an offence under the law of a
country or territory outside the United Kingdom, and

21.6.c.ii

the act constituting the offence would constitute an offence punishable by
imprisonment under the law of Scotland if done there (whether or not it
constituted such an offence when the person was convicted);

21.6.d

the reference in sub-paragraph  (4) (b)  to a qualifying offence includes a
reference to an offence under the law of a country or territory outside the
United Kingdom where the act constituting the offence would constitute a
qualifying offence under the law of England and Wales if done there or (as the
case may be) under the law of Northern Ireland if done there (whether or not
it constituted such an offence when the person was convicted).

21.7

For the purposes of  paragraph 20  and this paragraph—

21.7.a

“ offence ”, in relation to any country or territory outside the United
Kingdom, includes an act punishable under the law of that country or
territory, however it is described;

21.7.b

a person has in particular been convicted of an offence under the law of a
country or territory outside the United Kingdom if—

21.7.b.i

a court exercising jurisdiction under the law of that country or territory has
made in respect of such an offence a finding equivalent to a finding that the
person is not guilty by reason of insanity, or

21.7.b.ii

such a court has made in respect of such an offence a finding equivalent to a
finding that the person is under a disability and did the act charged against
the person in respect of the offence.

21.8

If a person is convicted of more than one offence arising out of a single
course of action, those convictions are to be treated as a single conviction
for the purposes of calculating under  paragraph 20  whether the person has
been convicted of only one offence.

###### Retention of material covered by a national security determination

22

22.1

Paragraph 19  material may be retained for as long as a national security
determination made by a chief officer of police has effect in relation to the
material.

22.2

A national security determination is made if a chief officer of police
determines that it is necessary for any  paragraph 19  material to be retained
for the purposes of national security.

22.3

A national security determination—

22.3.a

must be made in writing,

22.3.b

has effect for a maximum of 5 years beginning with the date on which the
determination is made, and

22.3.c

may be renewed.

22.4

In  this paragraph  “ chief officer of police ” means—

22.4.a

a chief officer of police of a police force in England and Wales,

22.4.b

the chief constable of the Police Service of Scotland,

22.4.c

the Chief Constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland,

22.4.d

the Chief Constable of the Ministry of Defence Police,

22.4.e

the Chief Constable of the British Transport Police Force, or

22.4.f

the Director General of the National Crime Agency.

###### Fingerprints and relevant physical data: further provision

23

23.1

This paragraph  applies where  paragraph 19  material is or includes a
person’s fingerprints (“the original fingerprints”).

23.2

A constable may make a determination under  this paragraph  in respect of any
further fingerprints taken from, or provided by, the same person (“the further
fingerprints”) if conditions 1 and 2 are met.

23.3

Condition 1 is met if the further fingerprints—

23.3.a

are  paragraph 19  material,

23.3.b

are taken or provided under or by virtue of—

23.3.b.i

paragraph 1  or  4  of  Schedule 12 ,

23.3.b.ii

Part 5 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984,

23.3.b.iii

Article 61 of the Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 (
S.I. 1989/1341 (N.I. 12) ),

23.3.b.iv

any provision, power or authority mentioned in section 18G(1) of the Criminal
Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995,

23.3.b.v

paragraph 10 of Schedule 8 to the Terrorism Act 2000,

23.3.b.vi

paragraph 1 or 4 of Schedule 6 to the Terrorism Prevention and Investigation
Measures Act 2011, or

23.3.b.vii

paragraph 34 of Schedule 3 to the Counter-Terrorism and Border Security Act
2019, or

23.3.c

are material to which section 18 of the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 applies.

23.4

Condition 2 is met if—

23.4.a

in a case where the further fingerprints are material to which section 18 of
the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 applies, the original fingerprints and the
further fingerprints are held under the law of the same part of the United
Kingdom;

23.4.b

in any other case, the original fingerprints and the further fingerprints were
taken from or provided by the person in the same part of the United Kingdom.

23.5

Where a determination under  this paragraph  is made in respect of the further
fingerprints—

23.5.a

the further fingerprints may be retained for as long as the original
fingerprints are retained under any power conferred by  paragraph 20  or  22 ,
and

23.5.b

a requirement under any enactment to destroy the further fingerprints does not
apply for as long as their retention is authorised by  paragraph (a) .

23.6

Sub-paragraph (5) (a)  does not prevent the further fingerprints being
retained after the original fingerprints fall to be destroyed if the continued
retention of the further fingerprints is authorised under any enactment.

23.7

Any determination under  this paragraph  must be recorded in writing.

24

24.1

If fingerprints or relevant physical data are required by  paragraph 19  to be
destroyed, any copies of the fingerprints or relevant physical data held by a
police force must also be destroyed.

24.2

If a DNA profile is required by that paragraph to be destroyed, no copy may be
retained by a police force except in a form which does not include information
which identifies the person to whom the DNA profile relates.

###### Samples: further provision

25

25.1

This paragraph  applies to—

25.1.a

samples taken under  paragraph 10  or  12 , or

25.1.b

samples taken or provided by virtue of  paragraph 18 .

25.2

Samples to which  this paragraph  applies must be destroyed if it appears to
the responsible chief officer of police that—

25.2.a

the sample was taken or required to be provided unlawfully, or

25.2.b

the sample was taken from, or provided by, a person in connection with that
person’s arrest under  section 27  and the arrest was unlawful or based on
mistaken identity.

25.3

Subject to this, the rule in  sub-paragraph (4)  or (as the case may be)  (5)
applies.

25.4

A DNA sample to which  this paragraph  applies must be destroyed—

25.4.a

as soon as a DNA profile has been derived from the sample, or

25.4.b

if sooner, before the end of the period of 6 months beginning with the date on
which the sample was taken.

25.5

Any other sample to which  this paragraph  applies must be destroyed before
the end of the period of 6 months beginning with the date on which it was
taken.

25.6

The responsible chief officer of police may apply to a relevant court for an
order to retain a sample to which  this paragraph  applies beyond the date on
which the sample would otherwise be required to be destroyed by virtue of
sub-paragraph (4)  or  (5)  if—

25.6.a

the sample was taken from a detained person in connection with the
investigation of a qualifying offence, and

25.6.b

the responsible chief officer of police considers that the condition in  sub-
paragraph (7)  is met.

25.7

The condition is that, having regard to the nature and complexity of other
material that is evidence in relation to the offence, the sample is likely to
be needed in any proceedings for the offence for the purposes of—

25.7.a

disclosure to, or use by, a defendant, or

25.7.b

responding to any challenge by a defendant in respect of the admissibility of
material that is evidence on which the prosecution proposes to rely.

25.8

An application under  sub-paragraph (6)  must be made before the date on which
the sample would otherwise be required to be destroyed by virtue of  sub-
paragraph (4)  or  (5) .

25.9

If, on an application made by the responsible chief officer of police under
sub-paragraph (6) , the relevant court is satisfied that the condition in
sub-paragraph (7)  is met, it may make an order under this sub-paragraph
which—

25.9.a

allows the sample to be retained for a period of 12 months beginning with the
date on which the sample would otherwise be required to be destroyed by virtue
of  sub-paragraph (4)  or  (5) , and

25.9.b

may be renewed (on one or more occasions) for a further period of not more
than 12 months from the end of the period when the order would otherwise cease
to have effect.

25.10

An application for an order under  sub-paragraph (9)  (other than an
application for renewal)—

25.10.a

may be made without notice of the application having been given to the person
from whom the sample was taken, and

25.10.b

may be heard and determined in private in the absence of that person.

25.11

In Scotland, an application for an order under  sub-paragraph (9)  (including
an application for renewal) is to be made by summary application.

25.12

A sample retained by virtue of an order under  sub-paragraph (9)  must not be
used other than for the purposes of any proceedings for the offence in
connection with which the sample was taken.

25.13

A sample must be destroyed if retention of the sample by virtue of an order
under  sub-paragraph (9)  ceases to be allowed.

25.14

Nothing in  this paragraph  prevents a relevant search, in relation to samples
to which  this paragraph  applies, from being carried out within such time as
may reasonably be required for the search if the responsible chief officer of
police considers the search to be desirable.

25.15

In  this paragraph —

“ ancillary offence ”, in relation to an offence, means any of the following—
being art and part in the commission of the offence; inciting a person to
commit the offence; attempting or conspiring to commit the offence; “
qualifying offence ”— in relation to the investigation of an offence committed
in England and Wales, has the meaning given by section 65A of the Police and
Criminal Evidence Act 1984, in relation to the investigation of an offence
committed in Scotland, means a relevant offence, an offence listed in section
33 (3) (a) , or an ancillary offence in relation to such an offence, and in
relation to the investigation of an offence committed in Northern Ireland, has
the meaning given by Article 53A of the Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern
Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/1341 (N.I. 12) ); “ relevant court ” means— in
England and Wales, a District Judge (Magistrates’ Courts), in Scotland, the
sheriff— in whose sheriffdom the person to whom the sample relates resides, in
whose sheriffdom that person is believed by the responsible chief officer of
police to be, or to whose sheriffdom that person is believed by the
responsible chief officer of police to be intending to come, and in Northern
Ireland, a district judge (magistrates’ court) in Northern Ireland; “ relevant
offence ” has the same meaning as in section 19A of the Criminal Procedure
(Scotland) Act 1995; “ relevant search ” has the meaning given by  paragraph
19 (6) .

###### Restrictions on use of retained material

26

26.1

Any material to which  paragraph 19  or  25  applies must not be used other
than—

26.1.a

in the interests of national security,

26.1.b

for the purposes of investigating foreign power threat activity,

26.1.c

for the purposes of a terrorist investigation (within the meaning of the
Terrorism Act 2000),

26.1.d

for purposes related to the prevention or detection of crime, the
investigation of an offence or the conduct of a prosecution, or

26.1.e

for purposes related to the identification of a deceased person or of the
person to whom the material relates.

26.2

Subject to  sub-paragraph (1) , a relevant search (within the meaning given by
paragraph 19 (6) ) may be carried out in relation to material to which
paragraph 19  or  25  applies if the responsible chief officer of police
considers the search to be desirable.

26.3

Material which is required by  paragraph 19  or  25  to be destroyed must not
at any time after it is required to be destroyed be used—

26.3.a

in evidence against the person to whom the material relates, or

26.3.b

for the purposes of the investigation of any offence.

26.4

In  this paragraph —

26.4.a

the reference to using material includes a reference to allowing any check to
be made against it and to disclosing it to any person,

26.4.b

the reference to crime includes a reference to any conduct which—

26.4.b.i

constitutes one or more criminal offences (whether under the law of a part of
the United Kingdom or of a country or territory outside the United Kingdom),
or

26.4.b.ii

is, or corresponds to, any conduct which, if it all took place in any one part
of the United Kingdom, would constitute one or more criminal offences, and

26.4.c

the references to an investigation and to a prosecution include references,
respectively, to any investigation outside the United Kingdom of any crime or
suspected crime and to a prosecution brought in respect of any crime in a
country or territory outside the United Kingdom.

26.5

Sub-paragraphs (1) ,  (2)  and  (4)  do not form part of the law of Scotland
(but see instead section 19C of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995
(use of samples etc) (as amended by  Schedule 18 ).

###### Material disclosable in connection with a criminal investigation

27

27.1

Paragraphs 19  to  26  do not apply to material relating to a detained person
which is, or may become, disclosable under—

27.1.a

the Criminal Procedure and Investigations Act 1996, or

27.1.b

a code of practice prepared under section 23 of that Act and in operation by
virtue of an order under section 25 of that Act.

27.2

A sample that—

27.2.a

falls within  sub-paragraph (1) , and

27.2.b

but for that sub-paragraph would be required to be destroyed under  paragraph
25 ,

must not be used other than for the purposes of any proceedings for the
offence in connection with which the sample was taken.

27.3

A sample that once fell within  sub-paragraph (1)  but no longer does, and so
becomes a sample to which  paragraph 25  applies, must be destroyed
immediately if the time specified for its destruction under that paragraph has
already passed.

###### Interpretation

28

28.1

In  paragraphs 19  to  27 —

“ DNA profile ” means any information derived from a DNA sample; “ DNA sample
” means any material that has come from a human body and consists of or
includes human cells; “ fingerprints ” has the meaning given by section 65(1)
of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 or, in Northern Ireland, Article
53(1) of the Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I.
1989/1341 (N.I.12) ); “ paragraph 19 material ” has the meaning given by
paragraph 19 (2) ; “ police force ” means any of the following— the
metropolitan police force; a police force maintained under section 2 of the
Police Act 1996 (police forces in England and Wales outside London); the City
of London police force; the Police Service of Scotland; the Scottish Police
Authority; the Police Service of Northern Ireland; the Police Service of
Northern Ireland Reserve; the Ministry of Defence Police; the National Crime
Agency; the British Transport Police Force; “ recordable offence ”— in
relation to a conviction in England and Wales, has the meaning given by
section 118(1) of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984, and in relation
to a conviction in Northern Ireland, has the meaning given by Article 2(2) of
the Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I.
1989/1341 (N.I. 12) ); “ relevant physical data ” has the meaning given by
section 18(7A) of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995; “ responsible
chief officer of police ” means— in relation to fingerprints or samples taken
by a constable of the Ministry of Defence Police, or a DNA profile derived
from a sample so taken, the Chief Constable of the Ministry of Defence Police;
in relation to fingerprints or samples taken by a constable of the British
Transport Police Force, or a DNA profile derived from a sample so taken, the
Chief Constable of the British Transport Police Force; in relation to
fingerprints or samples taken by a constable who is a National Crime Agency
officer, or a DNA profile derived from a sample so taken, the Director General
of the National Crime Agency; otherwise— in relation to fingerprints or
samples taken in England or Wales, or a DNA profile derived from a sample so
taken, the chief officer of police for the relevant police area; in relation
to relevant physical data or samples taken or provided in Scotland, or a DNA
profile derived from a sample so taken, the chief constable of the Police
Service of Scotland; in relation to fingerprints or samples taken in Northern
Ireland, or a DNA profile derived from a sample so taken, the Chief Constable
of the Police Service of Northern Ireland.

28.2

In the definition of “responsible chief officer of police” in sub-paragraph
(1), in paragraph (d)(i), “ relevant police area ” means the police area—

28.2.a

in which the material concerned was taken, or

28.2.b

in the case of a DNA profile, in which the sample from which the DNA profile
was derived was taken.

##### Review of detention under 

###### Requirement

29

29.1

A person’s detention must be periodically reviewed by a review officer.

29.2

The first review must be carried out as soon as is reasonably practicable
after the time of the person’s arrest.

29.3

Subsequent reviews must be carried out at intervals of not more than 12 hours.

This is subject to  paragraph 30 .

29.4

A person’s detention may not be reviewed after a warrant has been issued under
Part  6  of  this Schedule  extending the detention period.

###### Postponement

30

30.1

A review may be postponed if, at the latest time at which it may be carried
out in accordance with  paragraph 29 —

30.1.a

the detained person is being questioned by a constable and the review officer
is satisfied that an interruption of the questioning to carry out the review
would prejudice the investigation in connection with which the person is being
detained,

30.1.b

no review officer is readily available, or

30.1.c

it is not practicable for any other reason to carry out the review.

30.2

Where a review is postponed it must be carried out as soon as is reasonably
practicable.

30.3

For the purposes of ascertaining the time within which the next review is to
be carried out, a postponed review is to be treated as if it were carried out
at the latest time at which it could have been carried out in accordance with
paragraph 29 .

###### Grounds for continued detention

31

31.1

A review officer may authorise a person’s continued detention only if
satisfied that it is necessary—

31.1.a

to obtain relevant evidence, whether by questioning the person or otherwise,

31.1.b

to preserve relevant evidence,

31.1.c

pending the result of an examination or analysis of any relevant evidence,

31.1.d

pending the result of any examination or analysis which is being carried out,
or which is to be carried out, with a view to obtaining relevant evidence,

31.1.e

pending a decision whether to apply to the Secretary of State for a
deportation notice to be served on the person,

31.1.f

pending the making of an application to the Secretary of State for a
deportation notice to be served on the person,

31.1.g

pending consideration by the Secretary of State of whether to serve a
deportation notice on the person, or

31.1.h

pending a decision as to whether the person should be charged with an offence.

31.2

The review officer may not authorise continued detention by virtue of  sub-
paragraph (1) (a)  to (d) unless satisfied that the investigation in
connection with which the person is detained is being conducted diligently and
expeditiously.

31.3

The review officer may not authorise continued detention by virtue of  sub-
paragraph (1) (e)  to  (h)  unless satisfied that the process pending the
completion of which detention is necessary is being conducted diligently and
expeditiously.

31.4

In  this paragraph  “ relevant evidence ” means evidence which relates to the
detained person’s involvement in foreign power threat activity.

31.5

In  sub-paragraph (1)  “ deportation notice ” means notice of a decision to
make a deportation order under the Immigration Act 1971.

###### Review officer

32

32.1

The review officer must be an officer who has not been directly involved in
the investigation in connection with which the person is detained.

32.2

In the case of a review carried out within the period of 24 hours beginning
with the time of arrest, the review officer must be an officer of at least the
rank of inspector.

32.3

In the case of any other review, the review officer must be an officer of at
least the rank of superintendent.

33

33.1

This paragraph  applies where—

33.1.a

the review officer is of a rank lower than superintendent,

33.1.b

an officer of higher rank than the review officer gives directions relating to
the detained person, and

33.1.c

those directions are at variance with the performance by the review officer of
a duty imposed on the review officer under  this Schedule .

33.2

The review officer must refer the matter at once to an officer of at least the
rank of superintendent.

###### Representations

34

34.1

Before determining whether to authorise a person’s continued detention, a
review officer must give either of the following persons an opportunity to
make representations about the detention—

34.1.a

the detained person, or

34.1.b

a solicitor representing the detained person who is available at the time of
the review.

34.2

Representations may be oral or written.

34.3

A review officer may refuse to hear oral representations from the detained
person if the officer considers that the person is unfit to make
representations because of the person’s condition or behaviour.

###### Rights

35

35.1

A review officer who authorises continued detention must inform the detained
person—

35.1.a

of any rights under  paragraphs 6  and  7  which the person has not yet
exercised, and

35.1.b

of any delay to the exercise of any of the person’s rights which has been
authorised in accordance with  paragraph 9 .

35.2

Where a review of a person’s detention is being carried out at a time when the
person’s exercise of a right under  paragraph 6  or  7  is being delayed, the
review officer must—

35.2.a

consider whether the reason or reasons for which the delay was authorised
continue to apply, and

35.2.b

if, in the review officer’s opinion, the reason or reasons have ceased to
apply, inform the officer who authorised the delay of that opinion (unless the
delay was authorised by the review officer).

35.3

In the application of  this paragraph  to Scotland, for the references to
paragraphs 6 ,  7  and 9 substitute references to  paragraph 15 .

35.4

Article 8(1) of the Criminal Justice (Children) (Northern Ireland) Order 1998
( S.I. 1998/1504 (N.I. 9) ) (requirement to bring an accused person before the
court after arrest) does not apply in relation to a detained person.

###### Record

36

36.1

A review officer carrying out a review must make a written record of the
outcome of the review and of any of the following which apply—

36.1.a

the grounds upon which continued detention is authorised,

36.1.b

the reason for postponing the review,

36.1.c

the fact that the detained person has been informed as required under
paragraph 35 (1) ,

36.1.d

the officer’s conclusion on the matter considered under  paragraph 35 (2) (a)
,

36.1.e

the fact that the officer has taken action under  paragraph 35 (2) (b) , and

36.1.f

the fact that the detained person is being detained by virtue of  section 27
(6)  or  (7) .

36.2

The review officer must—

36.2.a

make the record in the presence of the detained person, and

36.2.b

inform the detained person at that time whether the review officer is
authorising continued detention, and if so, of the grounds for such
authorisation.

36.3

Sub-paragraph (2)  does not apply where, at the time when the record is made,
the detained person is—

36.3.a

incapable of understanding what is said to them,

36.3.b

violent or likely to become violent, or

36.3.c

in urgent need of medical attention.

##### Extension of detention under 

###### Warrants of further detention

37

37.1

Each of the following—

37.1.a

in England and Wales, a Crown Prosecutor,

37.1.b

in Scotland, the Lord Advocate or a procurator fiscal,

37.1.c

in Northern Ireland, the Director of Public Prosecutions for Northern Ireland,

37.1.d

in any part of the United Kingdom, a police officer of at least the rank of
superintendent,

may apply to a judicial authority for the issue of a warrant of further
detention in relation to a person.

37.2

A warrant of further detention is a warrant—

37.2.a

authorising the further detention under  section 27  of a person for the
specified period, and

37.2.b

stating the time at which it is issued.

37.3

Subject to  sub-paragraph (4)  and  paragraph 44 , the specified period in
relation to a person is the period of 7 days beginning with the time of the
person’s arrest under  section 27 .

37.4

A judicial authority may issue a warrant of further detention in relation to a
person which specifies a shorter period as the period for which the person’s
further detention is authorised if—

37.4.a

the application for the warrant is an application for a warrant specifying a
shorter period, or

37.4.b

the judicial authority is satisfied that there are circumstances that would
make it inappropriate for the specified period to be as long as the period of
7 days mentioned in  sub-paragraph (3) .

37.5

In  this Part  “ judicial authority ” means—

37.5.a

in England and Wales, a District Judge (Magistrates’ Courts) who is designated
for the purpose of  this Part  by the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales,

37.5.b

in Scotland, a sheriff, and

37.5.c

in Northern Ireland, a district judge (magistrates’ courts) in Northern
Ireland who is designated for the purpose of  this Part  by the Lord Chief
Justice of Northern Ireland.

37.6

The Lord Chief Justice may nominate a judicial office holder (as defined in
section 109(4) of the Constitutional Reform Act 2005) to exercise the
functions under  sub-paragraph (5) (a) .

37.7

The Lord Chief Justice of Northern Ireland may nominate any of the following
to exercise the functions under  sub-paragraph (5) (c) —

37.7.a

the holder of one of the offices listed in Schedule 1 to the Justice (Northern
Ireland) Act 2002;

37.7.b

a Lord Justice of Appeal (as defined in section 88 of that Act).

###### Time limit

38

38.1

An application for a warrant must be made—

38.1.a

during the period mentioned in  section 27 (3) , or

38.1.b

within 6 hours of the end of that period.

38.2

The judicial authority hearing an application made by virtue of  sub-paragraph
(1) (b)  must dismiss the application if it considers that it would have been
reasonably practicable to make it during the period mentioned in  section 27
(3) .

38.3

For the purposes of  this Schedule , an application for a warrant is made when
written or oral notice of an intention to make the application is given to a
judicial authority.

###### Notice

39

An application for a warrant of further detention may not be heard unless the
person to whom it relates has been given a notice stating—

39.a

that the application has been made,

39.b

the time at which the application was made,

39.c

the time at which it is to be heard, and

39.d

the grounds upon which further detention is sought.

###### Grounds for extension

40

40.1

A judicial authority may issue a warrant of further detention only if
satisfied that—

40.1.a

there are reasonable grounds for believing that the further detention of the
person to whom the application relates is necessary as mentioned in  sub-
paragraph (2) , and

40.1.b

the investigation in connection with which the person is detained is being
conducted diligently and expeditiously.

40.2

The further detention of a person is necessary as mentioned in this sub-
paragraph if it is necessary—

40.2.a

to obtain relevant evidence whether by questioning the person or otherwise,

40.2.b

to preserve relevant evidence,

40.2.c

pending the result of an examination or analysis of any relevant evidence, or

40.2.d

pending the examination or analysis of anything which is being carried out, or
is to be carried out, with a view to obtaining relevant evidence.

40.3

In  this paragraph  “ relevant evidence ” means, in relation to the person to
whom the application relates, evidence which relates to the person’s
involvement in foreign power threat activity.

###### Representation

41

41.1

The person to whom an application relates—

41.1.a

must be given an opportunity to make oral or written representations to the
judicial authority about the application, and

41.1.b

subject to  sub-paragraph (3) , is entitled to be legally represented at the
hearing.

41.2

A judicial authority must adjourn the hearing of an application to enable the
person to whom the application relates to obtain legal representation where—

41.2.a

the person is not legally represented,

41.2.b

the person is entitled to be legally represented, and

41.2.c

the person wishes to be so represented.

41.3

A judicial authority may exclude any of the following persons from any part of
the hearing—

41.3.a

the person to whom the application relates;

41.3.b

anyone representing that person.

41.4

A judicial authority may, after giving an opportunity for representations to
be made by or on behalf of the applicant and the person to whom the
application relates, direct—

41.4.a

that the hearing of the application must be conducted, and

41.4.b

that all representations by or on behalf of a person for the purposes of the
hearing must be made,

by such means (whether a live television link or other means) falling within
sub-paragraph (5)  as may be specified in the direction and not in the
presence (apart from by those means) of the applicant, of the person to whom
the application relates or of any legal representative of that person.

41.5

A means of conducting the hearing and of making representations falls within
this sub-paragraph if it allows the person to whom the application relates and
any legal representative of that person (without being present at the hearing
and to the extent that they are not excluded from it under  sub-paragraph (3)
)—

41.5.a

to see and hear the judicial authority and the making of representations to it
by other persons, and

41.5.b

to be seen and heard by the judicial authority.

41.6

If the person to whom the application relates wishes to make representations
about whether a direction should be given under  sub-paragraph (4) , the
person must do so by using the facilities that will be used if the judicial
authority decides to give a direction under that sub-paragraph.

41.7

Sub-paragraph (2)  applies to the hearing of representations about whether a
direction should be given under  sub-paragraph (4)  in the case of any
application as it applies to a hearing of the application.

41.8

A judicial authority may not give a direction under  sub-paragraph (4)
unless—

41.8.a

it has been notified by the Secretary of State that facilities are available
at the place where the person to whom the application relates is held for the
judicial authority to conduct a hearing by means falling within  sub-paragraph
(5) , and

41.8.b

that notification has not been withdrawn.

41.9

If in a case where it has power to do so a judicial authority decides not to
give a direction under  sub-paragraph (4) , it shall state its reasons for not
giving it.

###### Information

42

42.1

A person who has made an application for a warrant may apply to the judicial
authority for an order that specified information upon which the person
intends to rely be withheld from—

42.1.a

the person to whom the application relates, and

42.1.b

anyone representing the person.

42.2

Subject to  sub-paragraph (3) , a judicial authority may make an order under
sub-paragraph  (1)  in relation to specified information only if satisfied
that there are reasonable grounds for believing that if the information were
disclosed—

42.2.a

evidence of an offence under any of the provisions mentioned in  section 33
(3) (a)  would be interfered with or harmed,

42.2.b

evidence of an offence under  section 18  would be interfered with or harmed,

42.2.c

the recovery of property obtained as a result of an offence under any of those
provisions would be hindered,

42.2.d

the apprehension, prosecution or conviction of a person who is suspected of
being involved in foreign power threat activity would be made more difficult
as a result of the person being alerted,

42.2.e

the prevention of foreign power threat activity would be made more difficult
as a result of a person being alerted,

42.2.f

the gathering of information about the commission, preparation or instigation
of foreign power threat activity would be interfered with, or

42.2.g

a person would be interfered with or physically injured.

42.3

A judicial authority may also make an order under  sub-paragraph (1)  in
relation to specified information if satisfied that there are reasonable
grounds for believing that—

42.3.a

the detained person has benefited from their criminal conduct, and

42.3.b

the recovery of the value of the property constituting the benefit would be
hindered if the information were disclosed.

42.4

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (3)  the question whether a person has
benefited from their criminal conduct is to be decided in accordance with Part
2, 3 or 4 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002.

42.5

The judicial authority may direct that the following be excluded from the
hearing of the application under  this paragraph —

42.5.a

the person to whom the application for a warrant relates, and

42.5.b

anyone representing that person.

###### Adjournments

43

43.1

A judicial authority may adjourn the hearing of an application for a warrant
only if the hearing is adjourned to a date before the expiry of the period
mentioned in  section 27 (3) .

43.2

This paragraph  does not apply to an adjournment under  paragraph 41 (2) .

###### Extensions of warrants

44

44.1

Each of the following—

44.1.a

in England and Wales, a Crown Prosecutor,

44.1.b

in Scotland, the Lord Advocate or a procurator fiscal,

44.1.c

in Northern Ireland, the Director of Public Prosecutions for Northern Ireland,

44.1.d

in any part of the United Kingdom, a police officer of at least the rank of
superintendent,

may apply for the extension or further extension of the period specified in a
warrant of further detention.

44.2

The person to whom an application under  sub-paragraph (1)  may be made is a
judicial authority.

44.3

Where the period specified is extended, the warrant must be endorsed with a
note stating the new specified period.

44.4

Subject to  sub-paragraph (6) , the period by which the specified period is
extended or further extended is the period which—

44.4.a

begins with the time specified in  sub-paragraph (5) , and

44.4.b

ends with whichever is the earlier of—

44.4.b.i

the end of the period of 7 days beginning with that time, and

44.4.b.ii

the end of the period of 14 days beginning with the time of the arrest of the
person to which the warrant relates.

44.5

The time referred to in  sub-paragraph (4) (a)  is—

44.5.a

in the case of a warrant specifying a period which has not previously been
extended under  this paragraph , the end of the period specified in the
warrant, and

44.5.b

in any other case, the end of the period for which the period specified in the
warrant was last extended under  this paragraph .

44.6

A judicial authority may extend or further extend the period specified in a
warrant by a shorter period than is required by  sub-paragraph (4)  if—

44.6.a

the application for the extension is an application for an extension by a
period that is shorter than is so required, or

44.6.b

the judicial authority is satisfied that there are circumstances that would
make it inappropriate for the period of the extension to be as long as the
period so required.

44.7

Paragraphs 38 (3)  and  39  to  42  apply to an application under  this
paragraph  as they apply to an application for a warrant of further detention.

44.8

A judicial authority may adjourn the hearing of an application under  sub-
paragraph (1)  only if the hearing is adjourned to a date before the expiry of
the period specified in the warrant.

44.9

Sub-paragraph (8)  does not apply to an adjournment under  paragraph 41 (2) .

###### Detention - conditions

45

45.1

This paragraph  applies where—

45.1.a

a person is detained by virtue of a warrant issued under  this Part  of  this
Schedule , and

45.1.b

the detention is not authorised by virtue of  section 27 (6)  or  (7)  or
otherwise apart from the warrant.

45.2

If, at any time, it appears to the police officer or other person in charge of
the detained person’s case (“the officer in charge”) that any of the matters
mentioned in  paragraph 40 (1) (a)  and  (b)  on which the judicial authority
last authorised the person’s further detention no longer apply, the officer in
charge must—

45.2.a

if the officer in charge has custody of the detained person, release the
person immediately, and

45.2.b

if the officer in charge does not, immediately inform the person who does have
custody of the detained person that those matters no longer apply in the
detained person’s case.

45.3

A person with custody of the detained person who is informed in accordance
with  this paragraph  that those matters no longer apply must release the
detained person immediately.

##### Emergency power when Parliament dissolved etc. for temporary extension of maximum period for detention under 

46

46.1

The Secretary of State may make temporary extension regulations if—

46.1.a

either—

46.1.a.i

Parliament is dissolved, or

46.1.a.ii

Parliament has met after a dissolution but the first King’s Speech of the
Parliament has not yet taken place, and

46.1.b

the Secretary of State considers that it is necessary by reason of urgency to
make such regulations.

46.2

Temporary extension regulations are regulations which provide, in relation to
the period of three months beginning with the coming into force of the
regulations, for  paragraphs 44  and  45  to be read as if—

46.2.a

in  paragraph 44 (4) (b) (ii) , for “14 days” there were substituted  “28
days” , and

46.2.b

the other modifications in  sub-paragraphs (3)  and  (4)  were made.

46.3

The other modifications of  paragraph 44  are—

46.3.a

the insertion, at the end of  sub-paragraph (1) , of—

This is subject to sub-paragraphs  (1A)  to  (1I) .

,

46.3.b

the insertion, after  sub-paragraph (1) , of—

46.3.b.1A

Sub-paragraph  (1B)  applies in relation to any proposed application under
sub-paragraph (1)  for the further extension of the period specified in a
warrant of further detention where the grant (otherwise than in accordance
with  sub-paragraph (6) (b) ) of the application would extend the specified
period such that it ends at a time that is more than 14 days after the time of
the arrest of the person to whom the warrant relates.

46.3.b.1B

No person may make such an application—

46.3.b.1B.a

in England and Wales, without the consent of the Director of Public
Prosecutions,

46.3.b.1B.b

in Scotland, without the consent of the Lord Advocate, and

46.3.b.1B.c

in Northern Ireland, without the consent of the Director of Public
Prosecutions for Northern Ireland,

unless the person making the application is the person whose consent is
required.

46.3.b.1C

The Director of Public Prosecutions must exercise personally any function
under  sub-paragraph (1B)  of giving consent.

46.3.b.1D

The only exception is if—

46.3.b.1D.a

the Director is unavailable, and

46.3.b.1D.b

there is another person who is designated in writing by the Director acting
personally as the person who is authorised to exercise any such function when
the Director is unavailable.

46.3.b.1E

In that case—

46.3.b.1E.a

the other person may exercise the function but must do so personally, and

46.3.b.1E.b

the Director acting personally—

46.3.b.1E.b.i

must review the exercise of the function as soon as practicable, and

46.3.b.1E.b.ii

may revoke any consent given.

46.3.b.1F

Where the consent is so revoked after an application has been made or
extension granted, the application is to be dismissed or (as the case may be)
the extension is to be revoked.

46.3.b.1G

Sub-paragraphs  (1C)  to  (1F)  apply instead of any other provisions which
would otherwise have enabled any function of the Director of Public
Prosecutions under  sub-paragraph (1B)  of giving consent to be exercised by a
person other than the Director.

46.3.b.1H

The Director of Public Prosecutions for Northern Ireland must exercise
personally any function under  sub-paragraph (1B)  of giving consent unless
the function is exercised personally by the Deputy Director of Public
Prosecutions for Northern Ireland by virtue of section 30(4) or (7) of the
Justice (Northern Ireland) Act 2002 (powers of Deputy Director to exercise
functions of Director).

46.3.b.1I

Sub-paragraph  (1H)  applies instead of section 36 of the Act of 2002
(delegation of the functions of the Director of Public Prosecutions for
Northern Ireland to persons other than the Deputy Director) in relation to the
functions of the Director of Public Prosecutions for Northern Ireland and the
Deputy Director of Public Prosecutions for Northern Ireland under, or (as the
case may be) by virtue of,  sub-paragraph (1B)  above of giving consent.

,

46.3.c

the substitution, for “a judicial authority” in  sub-paragraph (2) , of

—

46.3.c.a

in the case of an application falling within  sub-paragraph (2A) , a judicial
authority, and

46.3.c.b

in any other case, a senior judge

,

46.3.d

the insertion, after  sub-paragraph (2) , of—

46.3.d.2A

An application for the extension or further extension of a period falls within
this sub-paragraph if—

46.3.d.2A.a

the grant of the application otherwise than in accordance with  sub-paragraph
(6) (b)  would extend that period such that it ends at a time that is no more
than 14 days after the time of the arrest of the person to whom the warrant
relates, and

46.3.d.2A.b

no application has previously been made to a senior judge in respect of that
period.

,

46.3.e

the insertion, after “judicial authority” in both places in  sub-paragraph (6)
where it appears, of “or senior judge”,

46.3.f

the insertion, after “detention” in  sub-paragraph (7) , of

but, in relation to an application made by virtue of  sub-paragraph (2) (b)
to a senior judge, as if—

46.3.f.a

references to a judicial authority were references to a senior judge, and

46.3.f.b

references to the judicial authority in question were references to the senior
judge in question

,

46.3.g

the insertion, after “judicial authority” in  sub-paragraph (8) , of “or
senior judge”, and

46.3.h

the insertion, after  sub-paragraph (9) , of—

46.3.h.10

In this paragraph and  paragraph 45  “ senior judge ” means a judge of the
High Court or of the High Court of Justiciary.

46.4

The modification of  paragraph 45  is the insertion, in  sub-paragraph (2) ,
after “judicial authority”, of “or senior judge”.

46.5

Temporary extension regulations apply, except so far as the regulations
provide otherwise, to any person who is being detained under  section 27  when
the regulations come into force (as well as any person who is subsequently
detained under that section).

46.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations revoke temporary extension
regulations if the Secretary of State considers it appropriate to do so
(whether or not the conditions mentioned in  paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  of
sub-paragraph (1)  are met).

46.7

Sub-paragraph (8)  applies if—

46.7.a

any of the following events occurs—

46.7.a.i

the revocation without replacement of temporary extension regulations,

46.7.a.ii

the expiry of the period of three months mentioned in  sub-paragraph (2)  in
relation to such regulations,

46.7.a.iii

the ceasing to have effect of such regulations by virtue of section  96 (8)
and  (9) , and

46.7.b

at that time—

46.7.b.i

a person is being detained by virtue of a further extension under  paragraph
44 ,

46.7.b.ii

the person’s further detention was authorised by virtue of the temporary
extension regulations concerned (before the revocation or expiry of those
regulations or before those regulations ceased to have effect) for a period
ending more than 14 days after the time of the person’s arrest under  section
27 ,

46.7.b.iii

that 14 days has expired, and

46.7.b.iv

the person’s detention is not otherwise authorised by law.

46.8

The person with custody of the detained person must release the detained
person immediately.

46.9

Subject to  sub-paragraphs (7)  and  (8) , the fact that—

46.9.a

temporary extension regulations are revoked,

46.9.b

the period of three months mentioned in  sub-paragraph (2)  has expired in
relation to such regulations, or

46.9.c

such regulations cease to have effect by virtue of section  96 (8)  and  (9) ,

is without prejudice to anything previously done by virtue of the regulations
or to the making of new regulations.

                 Prevention and investigation measures

Section  39

##### Measures

###### Residence measure

1

1.1

The Secretary of State may impose restrictions on the individual in relation
to the residence in which the individual resides.

1.2

The Secretary of State may, in particular, impose any of the following—

1.2.a

a requirement to reside at a specified residence;

1.2.b

a requirement to give notice to the Secretary of State of the identity of any
other individuals who reside (or will reside) at the specified residence;

1.2.c

a requirement, applicable between such hours as are specified, to remain at,
or within, the specified residence.

1.3

The specified residence must be—

1.3.a

premises that are the individual’s own residence, or

1.3.b

other premises situated in an agreed locality or in some other locality in the
United Kingdom that the Secretary of State considers to be appropriate.

1.4

If there are premises that are the individual’s own residence at the time when
the notice imposing restrictions under  this paragraph  is served on the
individual, premises more than 200 miles from those premises may be specified
under  sub-paragraph (3) (b)  only if they are in an agreed locality.

1.5

An “agreed locality” is a locality in the United Kingdom which is agreed by
the Secretary of State and the individual.

1.6

The specified residence (if it is not the individual’s own residence) may be a
residence provided by or on behalf of the Secretary of State.

1.7

If the specified residence is provided to the individual by or on behalf of
the Secretary of State, the Secretary of State may require the individual to
comply with any specified terms of occupancy of that residence (which may be
specified by reference to a lease or other document).

1.8

A requirement of the kind mentioned in  sub-paragraph (2) (c)  must include
provision to enable the individual to apply for the permission of the
Secretary of State to be away from the specified residence, for the whole or
part of any applicable period, on one or more occasions.

1.9

The Secretary of State may grant such permission subject to either or both of
the following conditions—

1.9.a

the condition that the individual remains at other agreed premises between
such hours as the Secretary of State may require;

1.9.b

the condition that the individual complies with such other restrictions in
relation to the individual's movements whilst away from the specified
residence as are so required.

1.10

“Agreed premises” are premises in the United Kingdom which are agreed by the
Secretary of State and the individual.

1.11

Sub-paragraph (9)  is not to be read as limiting—

1.11.a

the generality of  sub-paragraph (7)  of  paragraph 17  (power to impose
conditions when granting permission), or

1.11.b

the power to impose further conditions under that sub-paragraph in connection
with permission granted by virtue of  sub-paragraph (8)  of  this paragraph .

1.12

In  sub-paragraph (8)  “ applicable period ” means a period for which the
individual is required to remain at the specified residence by virtue of a
requirement of the kind mentioned in  sub-paragraph (2) (c) .

###### Travel measure

2

2.1

The Secretary of State may impose restrictions on the individual leaving a
specified area or travelling outside that area.

2.2

The specified area must be—

2.2.a

the United Kingdom, or

2.2.b

any area within the United Kingdom that includes the place where the
individual will be living.

2.3

The Secretary of State may, in particular, impose any of the following
requirements—

2.3.a

a requirement not to leave the specified area without the permission of the
Secretary of State;

2.3.b

a requirement to give notice to the Secretary of State before leaving that
area;

2.3.c

a requirement not to possess or otherwise control, or seek to obtain, any
travel document without the permission of the Secretary of State;

2.3.d

a requirement to surrender any travel document that is in the possession or
control of the individual.

2.4

“ Travel document ” means—

2.4.a

the individual's passport, or

2.4.b

any ticket or other document that permits the individual to make a journey by
any means—

2.4.b.i

from the specified area to a place outside that area, or

2.4.b.ii

between places outside the specified area.

2.5

“ Passport ” means any of the following—

2.5.a

a United Kingdom passport (within the meaning of the Immigration Act 1971);

2.5.b

a passport issued by or on behalf of the authorities of a country or territory
outside the United Kingdom, or by or on behalf of an international
organisation;

2.5.c

a document that can be used (in some or all circumstances) instead of a
passport.

###### Exclusion measure

3

3.1

The Secretary of State may impose restrictions on the individual entering—

3.1.a

a specified area or place, or

3.1.b

a place or area of a specified description.

But the Secretary of State may not impose restrictions on the individual
entering the United Kingdom.

3.2

The Secretary of State may, in particular, impose any of the following
requirements in respect of a specified area or place or a specified
description of an area or place—

3.2.a

a requirement not to enter without the permission of the Secretary of State;

3.2.b

a requirement to give notice to the Secretary of State before entering;

3.2.c

a requirement not to enter unless other specified conditions are met.

###### Movement directions measure

4

4.1

The Secretary of State may impose a requirement for the individual to comply
with directions given by a constable in respect of the individual’s movements
(which may, in particular, include a restriction on movements).

4.2

A constable may give such directions only for the purpose of securing
compliance—

4.2.a

with other specified measures, or

4.2.b

with a condition imposed under this Act requiring the individual to be
escorted by a constable.

4.3

Directions may not remain in effect for a period that is any longer than the
constable giving the directions considers necessary for the purpose mentioned
in sub-paragraph  (2) ; but that period may not in any event be a period of
more than 24 hours.

###### Financial services measure

5

5.1

The Secretary of State may impose restrictions on the individual’s use of, or
access to, such descriptions of financial services as are specified.

5.2

The Secretary of State may, in particular, impose any of the following
requirements—

5.2.a

a requirement not to hold any accounts, without the permission of the
Secretary of State, other than the nominated account (see  sub-paragraph (3)
);

5.2.b

a requirement to close, or to cease to have an interest in, accounts;

5.2.c

a requirement to comply with specified conditions in relation to the holding
of any account (including the nominated account) or any other use of financial
services;

5.2.d

a requirement not to possess, or otherwise control, cash over a total
specified value without the permission of the Secretary of State.

5.3

The Secretary of State must allow the individual to hold (at least) one
account (the “nominated account”) if—

5.3.a

the individual gives notice to the Secretary of State of the holding of the
nominated account, and

5.3.b

the account is held with a bank.

5.4

In  sub-paragraph (3)  “ bank ” means an institution which is incorporated in,
or formed under the law of, any part of the United Kingdom and which has
permission under Part 4A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 to
carry on the regulated activity of accepting deposits (within the meaning of
section 22 of that Act, taken with Schedule 2 to that Act and any order under
section 22 of that Act).

5.5

The reference in  sub-paragraph (2) (d)  to possessing or otherwise
controlling cash does not include any cash that is held in an account with a
person providing financial services (in accordance with any requirements
imposed under  this paragraph ).

5.6

In  sub-paragraph (2) (d)  “ cash ” means—

5.6.a

coins and notes in any currency,

5.6.b

postal orders,

5.6.c

cheques of any kind, including travellers’ cheques,

5.6.d

bankers’ drafts,

5.6.e

bearer bonds and bearer shares, and

5.6.f

such other kinds of monetary instrument as may be specified.

5.7

A reference in  this paragraph  to the individual holding an account is a
reference to an account held with a person providing financial services—

5.7.a

that is in the individual’s name or is held for the individual’s benefit
(whether held solely in the individual's name or jointly with one or more
other persons); or

5.7.b

in respect of which the individual has power of attorney or can otherwise
exercise control.

5.8

In  this paragraph  “ financial services ” means any service of a financial
nature, including (but not limited to) banking and other financial services
consisting of—

5.8.a

accepting deposits and other repayable funds;

5.8.b

lending (including consumer credit and mortgage credit);

5.8.c

payment and money transmission services (including credit, charge and debit
cards).

###### Property measure

6

6.1

The Secretary of State may impose either or both of the following—

6.1.a

restrictions on the individual in relation to the transfer of property to, or
by, the individual, or

6.1.b

requirements on the individual in relation to the disclosure of property.

6.2

The Secretary of State may, in particular, impose any of the following
requirements—

6.2.a

a requirement not to transfer money or other property to a person or place
outside the United Kingdom without the permission of the Secretary of State;

6.2.b

a requirement to give notice to the Secretary of State before transferring
money or other property to a person or place outside the United Kingdom;

6.2.c

a requirement to comply with any specified conditions in relation to the
transfer of property to, or by, the individual;

6.2.d

a requirement to disclose to the Secretary of State such details as may be
specified of any property that falls within  sub-paragraph (3) .

6.3

Property falls within this sub-paragraph if it is property of a specified
description—

6.3.a

in which the individual has an interest of any kind, or

6.3.b

over which, or in relation to which, the individual may exercise any right
(including a right of use or a right to grant access).

6.4

A reference in  this paragraph  to the transfer of property includes a
reference to the arrangement of such a transfer.

6.5

In  this paragraph  “ property ” includes rights over, or in relation to,
property (including rights of use and rights to grant access); and a reference
to the transfer of property includes a reference to the acquisition or
disposal of such rights.

###### Weapons and explosives measure

7

7.1

The Secretary of State may impose on the individual—

7.1.a

a prohibition on possessing offensive weapons, imitation firearms or
explosives;

7.1.b

a prohibition on making an application for a firearm certificate or a shot gun
certificate.

7.2

In  sub-paragraph (1) (a) —

                                             “ offensive weapon ” means an
article made or adapted for use for causing injury to the person, or intended
by the person in possession of it for such use (by that person or another);
“ imitation firearm ” has the same meaning as in the Firearms Act 1968 or (in
relation to Northern Ireland) the Firearms (Northern Ireland) Order 2004 (
S.I. 2004/702 (N.I. 3) );
“ explosive ” means anything that is—
an explosive within the meaning of the Explosives Act 1875, or
an explosive substance within the meaning of the Explosive Substances Act
1883.

7.3

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (1) (b) —

7.3.a

an application for a firearm certificate is an application under section 26A
of the Firearms Act 1968 or Article 4 of the Firearms (Northern Ireland) Order
2004 ( S.I. 2004/702 (N.I. 3) );

7.3.b

an application for a shot gun certificate is an application under section 26B
of the Firearms Act 1968.

###### Electronic communication device measure

8

8.1

The Secretary of State may impose either or both of the following—

8.1.a

restrictions on the individual’s possession or use of electronic communication
devices;

8.1.b

requirements on the individual in relation to the possession or use of
electronic communication devices by other persons in the individual's
residence.

8.2

The Secretary of State may, in particular, impose—

8.2.a

a requirement not to possess or use any devices without the permission of the
Secretary of State (subject to  sub-paragraph (3) );

8.2.b

a requirement that a device may only be possessed or used subject to specified
conditions.

8.3

The Secretary of State must allow the individual to possess and use (at least)
one of each of the following descriptions of device (subject to any conditions
on such use as may be specified under  sub-paragraph (2) (b) )—

8.3.a

a telephone operated by connection to a fixed line;

8.3.b

a computer that provides access to the internet by connection to a fixed line
(including any apparatus necessary for that purpose);

8.3.c

a mobile telephone that does not provide access to the internet.

8.4

The conditions specified under  sub-paragraph (2) (b)  may, in particular,
include conditions in relation to—

8.4.a

the type or make of a device (which may require the individual to use a device
that is supplied or modified by the Secretary of State);

8.4.b

the manner in which, or the times at which, a device is used;

8.4.c

the monitoring of such use;

8.4.d

the granting to a specified description of person of access to the
individual's premises for the purpose of the inspection or modification of a
device;

8.4.e

the surrendering to a specified description of person of a device on a
temporary basis for the purpose of its inspection or modification at another
place;

8.4.f

the disclosure to the Secretary of State of such details as may be specified
of any electronic communication device possessed or used by the individual or
any other person in the individual’s residence.

8.5

An “ electronic communication device ” means any of the following—

8.5.a

a device that is capable of storing, transmitting or receiving images, sounds
or information by electronic means;

8.5.b

a component part of such a device;

8.5.c

an article designed or adapted for use with such a device (including any disc,
memory stick, film or other separate article on which images, sound or
information may be recorded).

8.6

The devices within  sub-paragraph (5) (a)  include (but are not limited to)—

8.6.a

computers,

8.6.b

telephones (whether mobile telephones or telephones operated by connection to
a fixed line),

8.6.c

equipment (not within  paragraph (a)  or  (b) ) designed or adapted, or
capable of being adapted, for the purpose of connecting to the internet, and

8.6.d

equipment designed or adapted, or capable of being adapted, for the purposes
of sending or receiving facsimile transmissions.

###### Association measure

9

9.1

The Secretary of State may impose restrictions on the individual’s association
or communication with other persons.

9.2

The Secretary of State may, in particular, impose any of the following
requirements—

9.2.a

a requirement not to associate or communicate with specified persons, or
specified descriptions of persons, without the permission of the Secretary of
State;

9.2.b

a requirement to give notice to the Secretary of State before associating or
communicating with other persons (whether at all or in specified
circumstances);

9.2.c

a requirement to comply with any other specified conditions in connection with
associating or communicating with other persons.

9.3

An individual associates or communicates with another person if the individual
associates or communicates with that person by any means (and for this purpose
it is immaterial whether the association or communication is carried out by
the individual in person or by or through another individual or means).

###### Work or studies measure

10

10.1

The Secretary of State may impose restrictions on the individual in relation
to the individual’s work or studies.

10.2

The Secretary of State may, in particular, impose any of the following
requirements—

10.2.a

a requirement not to carry out without the permission of the Secretary of
State—

10.2.a.i

specified work or work of a specified description, or

10.2.a.ii

specified studies or studies of a specified description;

10.2.b

a requirement to give notice to the Secretary of State before carrying out any
work or studies;

10.2.c

a requirement to comply with any other specified conditions in connection with
any work or studies.

10.3

In  this paragraph —

                                             “ studies ” includes any course
of education or training;
“ work ” includes any business or occupation (whether paid or unpaid).

###### Reporting measure

11

11.1

The Secretary of State may impose a requirement for the individual—

11.1.a

to report to such a police station, at such times and in such manner, as the
Secretary of State may by notice require, and

11.1.b

to comply with any directions given by a constable in relation to such
reporting.

11.2

Such a notice may, in particular, provide that a requirement to report to a
police station is not to apply if conditions specified in the notice are met.

###### Polygraph measure

12

12.1

The Secretary of State may impose a requirement for the individual—

12.1.a

to participate in polygraph sessions conducted with a view to—

12.1.a.i

monitoring the individual’s compliance with other specified measures;

12.1.a.ii

assessing whether any variation of the specified measures is necessary for
purposes connected with preventing or restricting the individual’s involvement
in foreign power threat activity,

12.1.b

to participate in those polygraph sessions at such times as may be specified
in instructions given by the Secretary of State, and

12.1.c

while participating in a polygraph session, to comply with instructions given
to the individual by the polygraph operator.

12.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision relating to the
conduct of polygraph sessions, which may include in particular—

12.2.a

provision requiring polygraph operators to be persons who satisfy such
requirements as to qualifications, experience and other matters as are
specified in the regulations;

12.2.b

provision about the keeping of records of polygraph sessions;

12.2.c

provision about the preparation of reports on the results of polygraph
sessions.

12.3

The measurement and recording of the physiological reactions of an individual
while being questioned in the course of a polygraph examination must be done
by means of equipment of a type approved by the Secretary of State.

12.4

The following may not be used in evidence against the individual in any
proceedings for an offence—

12.4.a

any statement made by the individual while participating in a polygraph
session;

12.4.b

any physiological reaction of the individual while being questioned in the
course of a polygraph examination.

12.5

In  this paragraph —

                                             “ polygraph examination ” means a
procedure in which—
the polygraph operator questions the individual,
the questions and the individual’s answers are recorded, and
physiological reactions of the individual while being questioned are measured
and recorded;
“ polygraph operator ” means the person conducting a polygraph session;
“ polygraph session ” means a session during which the polygraph operator—
conducts one or more polygraph examinations of the individual, and
interviews the individual in preparation for, or otherwise in connection with,
any such examination.

###### Appointments measure

13

13.1

The Secretary of State may impose a requirement for the individual—

13.1.a

to attend appointments with specified persons or persons of specified
descriptions, and

13.1.b

to comply with any reasonable directions given by the Secretary of State that
relate to matters about which the individual is required to attend an
appointment.

13.2

A requirement under  sub-paragraph (1) (a)  is a requirement to attend
appointments—

13.2.a

at specified times and places, or

13.2.b

at times and places notified to the individual by persons referred to in that
sub-paragraph.

###### Photography measure

14

The Secretary of State may impose a requirement for the individual to allow
photographs to be taken of the individual at such locations and at such times
as the Secretary of State may by notice require.

###### Monitoring measure

15

15.1

The Secretary of State may impose requirements for the individual to co-
operate with specified arrangements for enabling the individual’s movements,
communications or other activities to be monitored by electronic or other
means.

15.2

The Secretary of State may, in particular, impose any of the following
requirements for co-operation with the specified arrangements—

15.2.a

a requirement to submit to procedures required by the arrangements;

15.2.b

a requirement to wear or otherwise use apparatus approved by or in accordance
with the arrangements;

15.2.c

a requirement to maintain such apparatus in a specified manner;

15.2.d

a requirement to comply with directions given by persons carrying out
functions for the purposes of the arrangements.

15.3

Directions under  sub-paragraph (2) (d)  may include directions requiring the
individual to grant access to the individual’s residence for the purpose of
the inspection or modification of any apparatus used or maintained under the
arrangements.

###### Provision of residence information measure

16

16.1

The Secretary of State may impose a requirement for the individual to disclose
to the Secretary of State—

16.1.a

the address of the individual’s residence;

16.1.b

if the individual resides at multiple occupancy premises, such details as may
be specified concerning where, in the premises, the individual’s residence is
located;

16.1.c

such details as may be specified in relation to any change (or anticipated
change) in the matters referred to in paragraphs  (a)  and  (b) .

16.2

The Secretary of State may impose a requirement for the individual to comply
with any other specified conditions in connection with the disclosure of
information within  sub-paragraph (1) .

16.3

“Multiple occupancy premises” are premises at which two or more individuals
who are not members of the same household reside.

##### Permission and notices

###### Permission

17

17.1

Any application by an individual for permission must be made in writing.

17.2

The Secretary of State may by notice specify—

17.2.a

the information to be supplied on an application, and

17.2.b

the time by which the application is to be made.

17.3

A notice under  sub-paragraph (2)  may make different provision for different
measures.

17.4

The Secretary of State may by notice request the provision, within such period
of time as the notice may specify, of further information from the individual
in connection with an application received under  sub-paragraph (1) .

17.5

The Secretary of State is not required to consider an application further
unless any information requested under  sub-paragraph (4)  is provided in
accordance with the notice mentioned in that sub-paragraph.

17.6

Permission on an application is granted by the Secretary of State giving
notice to the individual.

17.7

Permission may be granted subject to such conditions as the Secretary of State
may by notice specify.

17.8

In  this paragraph  “ permission ” means permission in connection with a
requirement or restriction imposed under  Part 1  of  this Schedule .

###### Notices

18

18.1

This paragraph  applies for the purposes of any notice given by the individual
to the Secretary of State in connection with measures imposed under  Part 1
of  this Schedule  (“a  Schedule 7  notice”).

18.2

The Secretary of State may by notice specify—

18.2.a

the information to be supplied in a  Schedule 7  notice, and

18.2.b

the time by which a  Schedule 7  notice is to be given.

18.3

A notice under  sub-paragraph (2)  may make different provision for different
measures.

18.4

The Secretary of State may by notice request the provision, within such period
of time as the notice may specify, of further information from the individual
in connection with a  Schedule 7  notice received from the individual.

18.5

A requirement on the individual to give a  Schedule 7  notice is not complied
with unless and until the individual has received notice from the Secretary of
State—

18.5.a

that the  Schedule 7  notice has been received, and

18.5.b

that no (or no further) information is required under  sub-paragraph (4)  in
relation to the  Schedule 7  notice.

###### Power of Secretary of State to vary or revoke notices

19

The Secretary of State may vary or revoke a notice given by the Secretary of
State under  this Schedule .

                 Urgent cases: reference to the court etc

Section 43

##### Application

1

This Schedule  applies if the Secretary of State—

1.a

makes the relevant decisions in relation to an individual, and

1.b

imposes measures on the individual.

##### Statement of urgency

2

The  Part 2  notice must include a statement that the Secretary of State
reasonably considers that the urgency of the case requires measures to be
imposed without obtaining the permission of the court under  section 42 .

##### Reference to court

3

3.1

Immediately after serving the  Part 2  notice, the Secretary of State must
refer to the court the imposition of the measures on the individual.

3.2

The function of the court on the reference is to consider whether the relevant
decisions of the Secretary of State were obviously flawed.

3.3

The court’s consideration of the reference must begin within the period of 7
days beginning with the day on which the  Part 2  notice is served on the
individual.

3.4

The court may consider the reference—

3.4.a

in the absence of the individual,

3.4.b

without the individual having been notified of the reference, and

3.4.c

without the individual having been given an opportunity (if the individual was
aware of the reference) of making any representations to the court.

3.5

But that does not limit the matters about which rules of court may be made.

##### Decision by court

4

4.1

In a case where the court determines that a decision of the Secretary of State
that condition A, condition B or condition C is met is obviously flawed, the
court must quash the  Part 2  notice.

4.2

In a case where the court determines that a decision of the Secretary of State
that condition D is met is obviously flawed, the court must quash those of the
measures which it determines that decision relates to.

4.3

If  sub-paragraph (1)  does not apply, the court must confirm the  Part 2
notice (subject to any quashing of measures under  sub-paragraph (2) ).

4.4

If the court determines that the Secretary of State’s decision that the
urgency condition is met is obviously flawed, the court must make a
declaration of that determination (whether it quashes or confirms the  Part 2
notice under the preceding provisions of  this paragraph ).

##### Procedures on reference

5

5.1

In determining a reference under  paragraph 3 , the court must apply the
principles applicable on an application for judicial review.

5.2

The court must ensure that the individual is notified of the court's decision
on a reference under  paragraph 3 .

##### Interpretation

6

6.1

References in  this Schedule  to the urgency condition being met are
references to condition E being met by virtue of  section 40 (5) (b)  (urgency
of the case requires measures to be imposed without obtaining the permission
of the court).

6.2

In  this Schedule  “ relevant decisions ” means the decisions that the
following conditions are met—

6.2.a

condition A;

6.2.b

condition B;

6.2.c

condition C;

6.2.d

condition D;

6.2.e

the urgency condition.

                 Appeals against convictions

Section 51

1

An individual who has been convicted of an offence under section  56 (1)  may
appeal against the conviction if—

1.a

a  Part 2  notice, the extension of a  Part 2  notice, or the revival of a
Part 2  notice is quashed, or measures specified in a  Part 2  notice are
quashed, and

1.b

the individual could not have been convicted had the quashing occurred before
the proceedings for the offence were brought.

2

An appeal under  this Schedule  is to be made—

2.a

in the case of a conviction on indictment in England and Wales or Northern
Ireland, to the Court of Appeal,

2.b

in the case of a conviction on indictment in Scotland, to the High Court of
Justiciary,

2.c

in the case of a summary conviction in England and Wales, to the Crown Court,

2.d

in the case of a summary conviction in Scotland, to the Sheriff Appeal Court,
or

2.e

in the case of a summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to the county court.

3

3.1

The right of appeal under  this Schedule  does not arise until there is no
further possibility of an appeal against—

3.1.a

the decision to quash the notice, extension, revival or measures, or

3.1.b

any decision on an appeal made against that decision.

3.2

In determining whether there is no further possibility of an appeal against a
decision of the kind mentioned in  sub-paragraph (1) , any power to extend the
time for giving notice of application for leave to appeal, or for applying for
leave to appeal, must be ignored.

4

4.1

On an appeal under  this Schedule  to any court, that court must allow the
appeal and quash the conviction.

4.2

An appeal under  this Schedule  to the Court of Appeal against a conviction on
indictment in England and Wales or Northern Ireland—

4.2.a

may be brought irrespective of whether the appellant has previously appealed
against the conviction,

4.2.b

may not be brought after the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the
day on which the right of appeal arises by virtue of  paragraph 3 , and

4.2.c

is to be treated as an appeal under section 1 of the Criminal Appeal Act 1968
or, in Northern Ireland, under section 1 of the Criminal Appeal (Northern
Ireland) Act 1980, but does not require leave in either case.

4.3

An appeal under  this Schedule  to the High Court of Justiciary against a
conviction on indictment in Scotland—

4.3.a

may be brought irrespective of whether the appellant has previously appealed
against the conviction,

4.3.b

may not be brought after the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the
day on which the right of appeal arises by virtue of  paragraph 3 , and

4.3.c

is to be treated as an appeal under section 106 of the Criminal Procedure
(Scotland) Act 1995 for which leave has been granted.

4.4

An appeal under  this Schedule  to the Crown Court against a summary
conviction in England and Wales—

4.4.a

may be brought irrespective of whether the appellant pleaded guilty,

4.4.b

may be brought irrespective of whether the appellant has previously appealed
against the conviction or made an application in respect of the conviction
under section 111 of the Magistrates’ Courts Act 1980 (case stated),

4.4.c

may not be brought after the end of the period of 21 days beginning with the
day on which the right of appeal arises by virtue of  paragraph 3 , and

4.4.d

is to be treated as an appeal under section 108(1)(b) of the Magistrates'
Courts Act 1980.

4.5

An appeal under  this Schedule  to the Sheriff Appeal Court against a summary
conviction in Scotland—

4.5.a

may be brought irrespective of whether the appellant pleaded guilty,

4.5.b

may be brought irrespective of whether the appellant has previously appealed
against the conviction,

4.5.c

may not be brought after the end of the period of two weeks beginning with the
day on which the right of appeal arises by virtue of  paragraph 3 ,

4.5.d

is to be by note of appeal, which shall state the ground of appeal,

4.5.e

is to be treated as an appeal for which leave has been granted under Part 10
of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995, and

4.5.f

must be in accordance with such procedure as the High Court of Justiciary may,
by Act of Adjournal, determine.

4.6

An appeal under  this Schedule  to the county court against a summary
conviction in Northern Ireland—

4.6.a

may be brought irrespective of whether the appellant pleaded guilty,

4.6.b

may be brought irrespective of whether the appellant has previously appealed
against the conviction or made an application in respect of the conviction
under Article 146 of the Magistrates' Courts (Northern Ireland) Order 1981 (
S.I. 1981/1675 (N.I. 26) ) (case stated),

4.6.c

may not be brought after the end of the period of 21 days beginning with the
day on which the right of appeal arises by virtue of  paragraph 3 , and

4.6.d

is to be treated as an appeal under Article 140(1)(b) of the Magistrates’
Courts (Northern Ireland) Order 1981 ( S.I. 1981/1675 (N.I. 26) ).

Proceedings relating to prevention and investigation measures

Section 54

##### Introductory

1

In  this Schedule —

“ appeal proceedings ” means proceedings in the Court of Appeal or the Inner
House of the Court of Session on an appeal relating to relevant proceedings; “
the relevant court ” means— in relation to relevant proceedings, the court; in
relation to appeal proceedings, the Court of Appeal or the Inner House of the
Court of Session; “ rules of court ” means rules for regulating the practice
and procedure to be followed in the court, the Court of Appeal or the Inner
House of the Court of Session.

##### Rules of court: general provision

2

2.1

A person making rules of court relating to relevant proceedings or appeal
proceedings must have regard to the need to secure the following—

2.1.a

that the decisions that are the subject of the proceedings are properly
reviewed, and

2.1.b

that disclosures of information are not made where they would be contrary to
the public interest.

2.2

Rules of court relating to relevant proceedings or appeal proceedings may make
provision—

2.2.a

about the mode of proof and about evidence in the proceedings;

2.2.b

enabling or requiring the proceedings to be determined without a hearing;

2.2.c

about legal representation in the proceedings;

2.2.d

enabling the proceedings to take place without full particulars of the reasons
for the decisions to which the proceedings relate being given to a party to
the proceedings (or to any legal representative of that party);

2.2.e

enabling the relevant court to conduct proceedings in the absence of any
person, including a party to the proceedings (or any legal representative of
that party);

2.2.f

about the functions of a person appointed as a special advocate (see
paragraph 10 );

2.2.g

enabling the court to give a party to the proceedings a summary of evidence
taken in the party’s absence.

2.3

In  this paragraph —

2.3.a

references to a party to the proceedings do not include the Secretary of
State;

2.3.b

references to a party’s legal representative do not include a person appointed
as a special advocate.

2.4

Nothing in  this paragraph  is to be read as restricting the power to make
rules of court or the matters to be taken into account when doing so.

##### Rules of court: disclosure

3

3.1

Rules of court relating to relevant proceedings or appeal proceedings must
secure that the Secretary of State is required to disclose—

3.1.a

material on which the Secretary of State relies,

3.1.b

material which adversely affects the Secretary of State’s case, and

3.1.c

material which supports the case of another party to the proceedings.

3.2

This paragraph  is subject to  paragraph 4 .

4

4.1

Rules of court relating to relevant proceedings or appeal proceedings must
secure—

4.1.a

that the Secretary of State has the opportunity to make an application to the
relevant court for permission not to disclose material otherwise than to the
relevant court and any person appointed as a special advocate;

4.1.b

that such an application is always considered in the absence of every party to
the proceedings (and every party’s legal representative);

4.1.c

that the relevant court is required to give permission for material not to be
disclosed if it considers that the disclosure of the material would be
contrary to the public interest;

4.1.d

that, if permission is given by the relevant court not to disclose material,
it must consider requiring the Secretary of State to provide a summary of the
material to every party to the proceedings (and every party’s legal
representative);

4.1.e

that the relevant court is required to ensure that such a summary does not
contain material the disclosure of which would be contrary to the public
interest.

4.2

Rules of court relating to relevant proceedings or appeal proceedings must
secure that provision to the effect mentioned in  sub-paragraph (3)  applies
in cases where the Secretary of State—

4.2.a

does not receive the permission of the relevant court to withhold material,
but elects not to disclose it, or

4.2.b

is required to provide a party to the proceedings with a summary of material
that is withheld, but elects not to provide the summary.

4.3

The relevant court must be authorised—

4.3.a

if it considers that the material or anything that is required to be
summarised might adversely affect the Secretary of State’s case or support the
case of a party to the proceedings, to direct that the Secretary of State—

4.3.a.i

is not to rely on such points in the Secretary of State’s case, or

4.3.a.ii

is to make such concessions or take such other steps as the court may specify,
or

4.3.b

in any other case, to ensure that the Secretary of State does not rely on the
material or (as the case may be) on that which is required to be summarised.

4.4

In  this paragraph —

4.4.a

references to a party to the proceedings do not include the Secretary of
State;

4.4.b

references to a party’s legal representative do not include a person appointed
as a special advocate.

##### Article 6 rights

5

5.1

Nothing in  paragraphs 2  to  4 , or in rules of court made under any of those
paragraphs, is to be read as requiring the relevant court to act in a manner
inconsistent with Article  6  of the Human Rights Convention.

5.2

The “ Human Rights Convention ” means the Convention within the meaning of the
Human Rights Act 1998 (see section 21(1) of that Act).

##### Rules of court: anonymity

6

6.1

Rules of court relating to relevant proceedings or appeal proceedings may make
provision for—

6.1.a

the making by the Secretary of State or the relevant individual of an
application to the court for an order requiring anonymity for that individual,
and

6.1.b

the making by the court, on such an application, of an order requiring such
anonymity,

and the provision made by the rules may allow the application and the order to
be made irrespective of whether any other relevant proceedings have been begun
in the court.

6.2

Rules of court may provide for the Court of Appeal or the Inner House of the
Court of Session to make an order in connection with any appeal proceedings
requiring anonymity for the relevant individual.

6.3

In  sub-paragraphs (1)  and  (2)  the references, in relation to a court, to
an order requiring anonymity for the relevant individual are references to an
order by that court which imposes such prohibition or restriction as it thinks
fit on the disclosure—

6.3.a

by such persons as the court specifies or describes, or

6.3.b

by persons generally,

of the identity of the relevant individual or of any information that would
tend to identify the relevant individual.

6.4

In  this paragraph  “ relevant individual ” means an individual on whom the
Secretary of State is proposing to impose, or has imposed, measures.

##### Initial exercise of rule-making powers by Lord Chancellor

7

7.1

The first time that rules of court are made in exercise of the powers
conferred by  this Schedule  in relation to proceedings in England and Wales
or in Northern Ireland, the rules may be made by the Lord Chancellor instead
of by the person who would otherwise make them.

7.2

Before making rules of court under  sub-paragraph (1) , the Lord Chancellor
must consult—

7.2.a

in relation to rules applicable to proceedings in England and Wales, the Lord
Chief Justice of England and Wales;

7.2.b

in relation to rules applicable to proceedings in Northern Ireland, the Lord
Chief Justice of Northern Ireland.

7.3

But the Lord Chancellor is not required to undertake any other consultation
before making the rules.

7.4

A requirement to consult under  sub-paragraph (2)  may be satisfied by
consultation that took place wholly or partly before this Schedule comes into
force.

7.5

Rules of court made by the Lord Chancellor under  sub-paragraph (1) —

7.5.a

must be laid before Parliament, and

7.5.b

if not approved by a resolution of each House before the end of 40 days
beginning with the day on which they were made, cease to have effect at the
end of that period.

7.6

In determining that period of 40 days no account is to be taken of any time
during which Parliament is dissolved or prorogued or during which both Houses
are adjourned for more than 4 days.

7.7

If rules cease to have effect in accordance with  sub-paragraph (5) —

7.7.a

that does not affect anything done in previous reliance on the rules, and

7.7.b

sub-paragraph (1)  applies again as if the rules had not been made.

7.8

The following provisions do not apply to rules of court made by the Lord
Chancellor under  this paragraph —

7.8.a

section 3(6) of the Civil Procedure Act 1997 (Parliamentary procedure for
civil procedure rules);

7.8.b

section 56(1), (2) and (4) of the Judicature (Northern Ireland) Act 1978
(statutory rules procedure).

7.9

Until the coming into force of section 85 of the Courts Act 2003, the
reference in sub-paragraph (8)(a) to section 3(6) of the Civil Procedure Act
1997 is to be read as a reference to section 3(2) of that Act.

##### Use of advisers

8

8.1

In any relevant proceedings or appeal proceedings the relevant court may if it
thinks fit—

8.1.a

call in aid one or more advisers appointed for the purposes of  this paragraph
by the Lord Chancellor, and

8.1.b

hear and dispose of the proceedings with the assistance of the adviser or
advisers.

8.2

The Lord Chancellor may appoint advisers for the purposes of  this paragraph
only with the approval of—

8.2.a

the Lord President of the Court of Session, in relation to an adviser who may
be called in aid wholly or mainly in Scotland;

8.2.b

the Lord Chief Justice of Northern Ireland, in relation to an adviser who may
be called in aid wholly or mainly in Northern Ireland;

8.2.c

the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales, in any other case.

8.3

Rules of court may regulate the use of advisers in proceedings who are called
in aid under  sub-paragraph (1) .

8.4

The Lord Chancellor may pay such remuneration, expenses and allowances to
advisers appointed for the purposes of  this paragraph  as the Lord Chancellor
may determine.

9

9.1

The Lord President of the Court of Session may nominate a judge of the Court
of Session who is a member of the First or Second Division of the Inner House
of that Court to exercise the function under  paragraph 8 (2) (a) .

9.2

The Lord Chief Justice of Northern Ireland may nominate any of the following
to exercise the function under  paragraph 8 (2) (b) —

9.2.a

the holder of one of the offices listed in Schedule 1 to the Justice (Northern
Ireland) Act 2002;

9.2.b

a Lord Justice of Appeal (as defined in section 88 of that Act).

9.3

The Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales may nominate a judicial office
holder (as defined in section 109(4) of the Constitutional Reform Act 2005) to
exercise the function under  paragraph 8 (2) (c) .

##### Appointment of special advocate

10

10.1

The appropriate law officer may appoint a person to represent the interests of
a party in any relevant proceedings or appeal proceedings from which the party
(and any legal representative of the party) is excluded.

10.2

A person appointed under  sub-paragraph (1)  is referred to in  this Schedule
as appointed as a “special advocate”.

10.3

The “appropriate law officer” is—

10.3.a

in relation to proceedings in England and Wales, the Attorney General;

10.3.b

in relation to proceedings in Scotland, the Advocate General for Scotland;

10.3.c

in relation to proceedings in Northern Ireland, the Advocate General for
Northern Ireland.

10.4

A person appointed as a special advocate is not responsible to the party to
the proceedings whose interests the person is appointed to represent.

10.5

A person may be appointed as a special advocate only if—

10.5.a

in the case of an appointment by the Attorney General, the person has a
general qualification for the purposes of section 71 of the Courts and Legal
Services Act 1990;

10.5.b

in the case of an appointment by the Advocate General for Scotland, the person
is an advocate or a solicitor who has rights of audience in the Court of
Session or the High Court of Justiciary by virtue of section 25A of the
Solicitors (Scotland) Act 1980;

10.5.c

in the case of an appointment by the Advocate General for Northern Ireland,
the person is a member of the Bar of Northern Ireland.

Powers of entry, search, seizure and retention

Section 57

##### Introductory

1

This Schedule  confers powers of entry, search, seizure and retention on
constables in connection with the imposition of measures on individuals.

2

A power conferred on a constable by virtue of  this Schedule —

2.a

is additional to powers which the constable has at common law or by virtue of
any other enactment, and

2.b

is not to be taken as affecting those powers.

3

A constable may detain an individual for the purpose of carrying out a search
of that individual under a power conferred by virtue of  this Schedule .

4

A constable may use reasonable force, if necessary, for the purpose of
exercising a power conferred on the constable by virtue of  this Schedule .

##### Entry and search for purposes of serving a 

5

5.1

For the purpose of serving a relevant notice on an individual, a constable
may—

5.1.a

enter any premises where the constable has reasonable grounds for believing
the individual to be, and

5.1.b

search those premises for that individual.

5.2

A “ relevant notice ” means—

5.2.a

a  Part 2  notice;

5.2.b

a notice under  section 41 (2)  extending a  Part 2  notice;

5.2.c

a notice under  section 48 (1)  varying a  Part 2  notice as mentioned in
paragraph (c)  of that subsection; or

5.2.d

a notice under  section 49 (6)  reviving a  Part 2  notice.

##### Search of individual or premises at time of serving a 

6

6.1

This paragraph  applies if a  Part 2  notice is being, or has just been,
served on an individual.

6.2

A constable may (without a warrant)—

6.2.a

search the individual for the purpose mentioned in  sub-paragraph (3) ;

6.2.b

enter and search, for that purpose, any premises mentioned in  sub-paragraph
(4) .

6.3

The purpose is that of ascertaining whether there is anything on the
individual, or (as the case may be) in the premises, that contravenes measures
specified in the  Part 2  notice.

6.4

The premises referred to in  sub-paragraph (2) (b)  are—

6.4.a

the individual’s place of residence;

6.4.b

other premises to which the individual has power to grant access.

6.5

A constable may seize anything that the constable finds in the course of a
search carried out under a power conferred by  this paragraph —

6.5.a

for the purpose of ascertaining whether measures specified in the  Part 2
notice are being or are about to be contravened by the individual;

6.5.b

for the purpose of securing compliance by the individual with measures
specified in the  Part 2  notice;

6.5.c

if the constable has reasonable grounds for suspecting that—

6.5.c.i

the thing is or contains evidence in relation to an offence, and

6.5.c.ii

it is necessary to seize it in order to prevent it being concealed, lost,
damaged, altered or destroyed.

##### Search of premises on suspicion of absconding

7

7.1

This paragraph  applies if a constable reasonably suspects that an individual
in respect of whom a  Part 2  notice is in force has absconded.

7.2

The constable may (without a warrant) enter and search any premises mentioned
in  sub-paragraph (3) —

7.2.a

for the purposes of determining whether the individual has absconded;

7.2.b

if it appears that the individual has absconded, for anything that may assist
in the pursuit and arrest of the individual.

7.3

The premises referred to in  sub-paragraph (2)  are—

7.3.a

the individual's place of residence;

7.3.b

other premises to which the individual has power to grant access;

7.3.c

any premises to which the individual had power to grant access and with which
there is reason to believe that the individual is or was recently connected.

7.4

A constable may seize anything that the constable finds in the course of a
search carried out under a power conferred by  this paragraph —

7.4.a

if the constable reasonably believes that the thing will assist in the pursuit
or arrest of the individual;

7.4.b

if the constable has reasonable grounds for suspecting that—

7.4.b.i

the thing is or contains evidence in relation to an offence, and

7.4.b.ii

it is necessary to seize it in order to prevent it being concealed, lost,
damaged, altered or destroyed.

##### Search for compliance purposes

8

8.1

A constable may apply for the issue of a warrant under  this paragraph  for
the purpose of determining whether an individual in respect of whom a  Part 2
notice is in force is complying with measures specified in the notice.

8.2

A warrant under  this paragraph  may authorise a constable to do either or
both of the following—

8.2.a

to search the individual;

8.2.b

to enter and search the individual’s place of residence or any other premises
that are specified in the warrant.

8.3

An application for a warrant under  this paragraph  must be made to the
appropriate judicial authority.

8.4

The appropriate judicial authority may, on such an application, grant the
warrant only if satisfied that the warrant is necessary for the purpose
mentioned in  sub-paragraph (1) .

8.5

A constable may seize anything that the constable finds in the course of a
search carried out under a power conferred by a warrant issued under  this
paragraph —

8.5.a

for the purpose of ascertaining whether any measure specified in the  Part 2
notice has been, is being, or is about to be, contravened by the individual;

8.5.b

for the purpose of securing compliance by the individual with measures
specified in the  Part 2  notice;

8.5.c

if the constable has reasonable grounds for suspecting that—

8.5.c.i

the thing is or contains evidence in relation to an offence, and

8.5.c.ii

it is necessary to seize it in order to prevent it being concealed, lost,
damaged, altered or destroyed.

8.6

In  this paragraph  “ appropriate judicial authority ”, in relation to a
warrant, means—

8.6.a

a justice of the peace, if the application for the warrant is made in England
or Wales;

8.6.b

a sheriff, if the application is made in Scotland;

8.6.c

a lay magistrate, if the application is made in Northern Ireland.

9

9.1

This paragraph  applies in relation to a warrant issued in England, Wales or
Northern Ireland under  paragraph 8  so far as it authorises a constable to
search an individual.

9.2

In relation to warrants issued under that paragraph so far as authorising the
entry and search of premises, see—

9.2.a

sections 15 and 16 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984, in relation
to warrants issued in England and Wales;

9.2.b

Articles 17 and 18 of the Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland)
Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/1341 (N.I. 12) ), in relation to warrants issued in
Northern Ireland.

9.3

The constable applying for the warrant must—

9.3.a

state the ground on which the application is made, and

9.3.b

identify, so far as practicable, the articles to be sought.

9.4

The application for the warrant is to be made without notice and—

9.4.a

if made in England or Wales, supported by an information in writing;

9.4.b

if made in Northern Ireland, supported by a complaint in writing and
substantiated on oath.

9.5

The constable must answer on oath any questions that the appropriate judicial
authority (within the meaning of  paragraph 8 ) hearing the application may
ask of the constable.

9.6

If the warrant is issued it authorises a search of the individual on one
occasion only.

9.7

The warrant must—

9.7.a

specify the name of the constable applying for it, the date on which it is
issued and the fact that it is issued under  paragraph 8 , and

9.7.b

identify, so far as practicable, the articles to be sought.

9.8

Two copies must be made of the warrant and clearly certified as copies.

9.9

The warrant may be executed by any constable.

9.10

The search under the warrant must be carried out within 28 days of its issue.

9.11

The search must be carried out at a reasonable hour unless it appears to the
constable executing the warrant that the purposes of the search may be
frustrated if carried out then.

9.12

The constable seeking to execute the warrant must, before carrying out the
search—

9.12.a

identify himself or herself to the individual,

9.12.b

if not in uniform, produce documentary evidence that he or she is a constable
to the individual,

9.12.c

produce the warrant to the individual, and

9.12.d

supply the individual with a copy of the warrant (which, in Northern Ireland,
must be a certified copy).

9.13

The constable executing the warrant must make an endorsement on it stating—

9.13.a

whether anything sought was found in the course of the search, and

9.13.b

whether anything was seized.

9.14

When the warrant has been executed it must be returned to the designated
officer.

9.15

The designated officer must retain a warrant returned under  sub-paragraph
(14)  for a period of 12 months from the time of its return and, if requested
during that period, allow the individual to inspect it.

9.16

The “designated officer” is—

9.16.a

in relation to a warrant issued in England and Wales, the designated officer
for the local justice area in which the justice of the peace who issued the
warrant was acting when it was issued;

9.16.b

in relation to a warrant issued in Northern Ireland, the clerk of petty
sessions.

##### Search of individual for public safety purposes

10

10.1

A constable may (without a warrant) search an individual in respect of whom a
Part 2  notice is in force for the purpose of ascertaining whether the
individual is in possession of anything that could be used to threaten or harm
any person.

10.2

The power of a constable to search the individual under  this paragraph  may
be exercised—

10.2.a

following entry onto premises by virtue of this Part, or

10.2.b

at any other time when the constable is in the presence of the individual.

10.3

A constable may seize anything that the constable finds in the course of a
search carried out under a power conferred by  this paragraph —

10.3.a

if the constable has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the thing may be
used to threaten or harm any person;

10.3.b

if the constable has reasonable grounds for suspecting that—

10.3.b.i

the thing is or contains evidence in relation to an offence, and

10.3.b.ii

it is necessary to seize it to prevent it being concealed, lost, damaged,
altered or destroyed.

##### Power to retain items

11

11.1

Anything that is seized under a power conferred by virtue of  this Schedule
may be—

11.1.a

subjected to tests;

11.1.b

retained for as long as is necessary in all the circumstances.

11.2

In particular (and regardless of the ground on which the thing was seized)—

11.2.a

if a constable has reasonable grounds for believing that the thing is or
contains evidence in relation to an offence, it may be retained—

11.2.a.i

for use as evidence at a trial for an offence, or

11.2.a.ii

for forensic examination or for investigation in connection with an offence,
and

11.2.b

if a constable has reasonable grounds for believing that the thing has been
obtained in consequence of the commission of an offence, it may be retained in
order to establish its lawful owner.

11.3

Nothing may be retained for either of the purposes mentioned in  sub-paragraph
(2) (a)  if a photograph or copy would be sufficient for that purpose.

11.4

Nothing in  this paragraph  or in  paragraph 12  affects any power of a court
to make an order under section 1 of the Police (Property) Act 1897.

12

12.1

This paragraph  applies if—

12.1.a

a device is surrendered by virtue of a condition of the kind mentioned in
paragraph 8 (4) (e)  of  Schedule 7  (surrendering of electronic communication
devices for inspection or modification purposes), and

12.1.b

a constable has reasonable grounds for believing that the device is or
contains evidence in relation to an offence.

12.2

The device may be seized and retained for as long as is necessary in all the
circumstances.

12.3

In particular—

12.3.a

the thing may be retained—

12.3.a.i

for use as evidence at a trial for an offence, or

12.3.a.ii

for forensic examination or for investigation in connection with an offence,
and

12.3.b

if a constable has reasonable grounds for believing that the device has been
obtained in consequence of the commission of an offence, it may be retained in
order to establish its lawful owner.

12.4

Nothing may be retained for either of the purposes mentioned in  sub-paragraph
(3) (a)  if a photograph or copy would be sufficient for that purpose.

Fingerprints and samples

Section 58

##### Taking of fingerprints and samples: England, Wales and Northern Ireland

1

1.1

This paragraph  applies at any time when a  Part 2  notice is in force in
respect of an individual in England, Wales or Northern Ireland.

1.2

A constable may take fingerprints or a non-intimate sample from the
individual—

1.2.a

with the consent of the individual given in writing, or

1.2.b

without that consent.

1.3

A constable may use reasonable force, if necessary, for the purpose of
exercising the power under  sub-paragraph (2) (b) .

1.4

Before any fingerprints or a non-intimate sample are taken the individual must
be informed—

1.4.a

of the reason for taking the fingerprints or sample,

1.4.b

of the fact that the fingerprints or sample are taken under the power
conferred by  this paragraph , and

1.4.c

that the fingerprints or sample may be the subject of a relevant search.

1.5

The matters mentioned in  sub-paragraph (4)  must be recorded as soon as
practicable after the fingerprints or non-intimate sample are taken.

1.6

The information mentioned in  sub-paragraph (4)  must be given by—

1.6.a

the constable taking the fingerprints or non-intimate sample, or

1.6.b

if the fingerprints or non-intimate sample are taken at a police station (see
paragraph 3 ), any other officer.

1.7

Where a sample of hair other than pubic hair is to be taken under  this
paragraph , the sample may be taken either by cutting hairs or by plucking
hairs with their roots so long as no more are plucked than the person taking
the sample reasonably considers to be necessary for a sufficient sample.

2

2.1

A constable may exercise the power under  paragraph 1  to take fingerprints or
a non-intimate sample from an individual only if at the time when the power is
to be exercised—

2.1.a

in the case of fingerprints, the condition in  sub-paragraph (2)  is met;

2.1.b

in the case of a sample, the condition in  sub-paragraph (3)  is met.

2.2

The condition in the case of fingerprints is that—

2.2.a

the individual has not had fingerprints taken under  paragraph 1  on a
previous occasion after the time at which the present  Part 2  notice came
into force, or

2.2.b

fingerprints were so taken on a previous occasion after that time but—

2.2.b.i

the fingerprints taken do not constitute a complete set of the individual's
fingerprints, or

2.2.b.ii

some or all of the fingerprints taken are not of sufficient quality to allow
satisfactory analysis, comparison or matching.

2.3

The condition in the case of a non-intimate sample is that—

2.3.a

the individual has not had a sample of the same type and from the same part of
the body taken under  paragraph 1  on a previous occasion after the time at
which the present  Part 2  notice came into force, or

2.3.b

a sample was so taken on a previous occasion after that time but it proved
insufficient.

2.4

In  this paragraph  “the present  Part 2  notice” means the  Part 2  notice in
force at the time when it is proposed to exercise the power to take the
fingerprints or sample.

3

3.1

A constable may—

3.1.a

require an individual to attend a police station for the purposes of taking
fingerprints or a non-intimate sample from the individual under  paragraph 1 ,
and

3.1.b

arrest without warrant an individual who fails to comply with such a
requirement.

3.2

A requirement under  sub-paragraph (1) (a) —

3.2.a

must give the individual a period of at least 7 days within which the
individual must attend the police station (subject to  sub-paragraph (4) ),
and

3.2.b

may direct the individual to attend at a specified time of day or between
specified times of day.

3.3

In specifying a period or time or times of day for the purposes of  sub-
paragraph (2) , the constable must consider whether the fingerprints or non-
intimate sample could reasonably be taken at a time when the individual is for
any other reason required to attend the police station (including, in
particular, under measures imposed on the individual by virtue of  paragraph
11  of  Schedule 7 ).

3.4

In giving a requirement under  this paragraph  a constable may specify a
period of shorter than 7 days if—

3.4.a

there is an urgent need for the fingerprints or sample for the purposes of the
investigation of an offence, and

3.4.b

the shorter period is authorised by an officer of at least the rank of
inspector.

3.5

Where an authorisation is given under  sub-paragraph (4) (b) —

3.5.a

the fact of the authorisation, and

3.5.b

the reasons for giving it,

must be recorded as soon as practicable after it has been given.

3.6

If the constable who gives a requirement to an individual under  this
paragraph  and the individual agree, it may be varied so as to specify any
period within which, or date or time at which, the individual must attend; but
a variation does not have effect unless confirmed by the constable in writing.

##### Taking of relevant physical data and samples: Scotland

4

4.1

This paragraph  applies at any time when a  Part 2  notice is in force in
respect of an individual in Scotland.

4.2

A constable may—

4.2.a

take from the individual, or require the individual to provide, any relevant
physical data;

4.2.b

with the authority of an officer of a rank no lower than inspector, take from
the individual any sample mentioned in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of subsection
(6) of section 18 of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 (prints,
samples etc in criminal investigations) by the means specified in that
paragraph in relation to the sample;

4.2.c

take, or direct a police custody and security officer to take, from the
individual a sample mentioned in subsection (6A) of that section by the means
specified in that subsection.

4.3

A constable may—

4.3.a

require the individual to attend a police station for the purposes mentioned
in  sub-paragraph (2) , and

4.3.b

arrest without warrant an individual who fails to comply with such a
requirement.

4.4

A requirement under  sub-paragraph (3) (a) —

4.4.a

must give the individual at least 7 days’ notice of the date on which the
individual is required to attend the police station, and

4.4.b

may direct the individual to attend at a specified time of day or between
specified times of day.

4.5

In specifying a date or time or times of day for the purposes of  sub-
paragraph (4) , the constable must consider whether the relevant physical data
or sample could reasonably be taken at a time when the individual is for any
other reason required to attend the police station (including, in particular,
under measures imposed on the individual by virtue of  paragraph 11  of
Schedule 7 ).

4.6

A constable may use reasonable force, if necessary, in—

4.6.a

taking any relevant physical data under  sub-paragraph (2) (a) ,

4.6.b

securing compliance with a requirement imposed by the constable under that
sub-paragraph, or

4.6.c

taking any sample under  sub-paragraph (2) (b) .

4.7

A constable may, with the authority of an officer of a rank no lower than
inspector, use reasonable force, if necessary, in taking any sample under
sub-paragraph (2) (c) .

4.8

In  this paragraph  “ police custody and security officer ” has the same
meaning as in Part 1 of the  Police and Fire Reform (Scotland) Act 2012 (asp
8)  (see section 99 of that Act).

##### Checking of fingerprints, samples etc

5

Any fingerprints, data or samples obtained under  paragraph 1  or  4 , or
information derived from such samples, may be checked against—

5.a

other such fingerprints, data or samples or any information derived from such
samples;

5.b

any fingerprints or samples taken under paragraph  10  or  12  of  Schedule 6
or any information derived from such samples;

5.c

any fingerprints, samples or information mentioned in section 63A(1)(a) or (b)
of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984;

5.d

any fingerprints, samples or information mentioned in Article 63A(1)(a) and
(b) of the Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I.
1989/1341 (N.I. 12) );

5.e

any fingerprints or samples taken under  paragraph 10  or  12  of Schedule 8
to the Terrorism Act 2000 or any information derived from such samples;

5.f

any of the relevant physical data, samples or information mentioned in section
19C(1) of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995;

5.g

any of the relevant physical data, samples or information held by virtue of
section 56 of the  Criminal Justice (Scotland) Act 2003 (asp 7) ;

5.h

material to which section 18 of the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 applies;

5.i

any of the fingerprints, data or samples obtained under paragraph 1 or 4 of
Schedule 6 to the Terrorism Prevention and Investigation Measures Act 2011, or
information derived from such samples;

5.j

any fingerprints or samples taken under paragraph 34 of Schedule 3 to the
Counter-Terrorism and Border Security Act 2019 or any information derived from
such samples.

##### Requirement to destroy material

6

6.1

This paragraph  applies to—

6.1.a

fingerprints taken under  paragraph 1 ,

6.1.b

a DNA profile derived from a DNA sample taken under that paragraph,

6.1.c

relevant physical data taken or provided under  paragraph 4 ,

6.1.d

a DNA profile derived from a DNA sample taken under that paragraph.

6.2

Fingerprints, relevant physical data and DNA profiles to which  this paragraph
applies (“ paragraph 6  material”) must be destroyed if it appears to the
responsible chief officer of police that the taking or providing of the
material or, in the case of a DNA profile, the taking of the sample from which
the DNA profile was derived, was unlawful.

6.3

In any other case,  paragraph 6  material must be destroyed unless it is
retained under a power conferred by  paragraph 8 , 9, or  11 .

6.4

Paragraph 6  material that ceases to be retained under a power mentioned in
sub-paragraph (3)  may continue to be retained under any other such power that
applies to it.

6.5

Nothing in  this paragraph  prevents a relevant search from being carried out,
in relation to  paragraph 6  material, within such time as may reasonably be
required for the search if the responsible chief officer of police considers
the search to be desirable.

7

7.1

If fingerprints or relevant physical data are required by  paragraph 6  to be
destroyed, any copies of the fingerprints or data held by a police force must
also be destroyed.

7.2

If a DNA profile is required by that paragraph to be destroyed, no copy may be
retained by a police force except in a form which does not include information
which identifies the individual to whom the DNA profile relates.

##### Retention of 

8

8.1

This paragraph  applies to  paragraph 6  material taken from, or provided by,
an individual who has no previous convictions or (in the case of England and
Wales or Northern Ireland) only one exempt conviction.

8.2

The  material may be retained until the end of the period of 6 months
beginning with the date on which the  Part 2  notice that was in force when
the material was taken ceases to be in force (subject to  sub-paragraphs (3)
and  (4) ).

8.3

If, before the end of that period, the  Part 2  notice is quashed by the court
under this Part, the material may be retained only until there is no
possibility of an appeal against—

8.3.a

the decision to quash the notice, or

8.3.b

any decision made on an appeal against that decision.

8.4

If, after a  Part 2  notice is quashed or otherwise ceases to be in force,
measures are imposed on the individual (whether by the revival of a  Part 2
notice or the imposition of a new  Part 2  notice)—

8.4.a

within the period for which material in relation to the individual is retained
by virtue of  sub-paragraph (2) , or

8.4.b

within, or immediately after the end of, the period for which such material is
retained by virtue of  sub-paragraph (3) ,

sub-paragraphs (2)  and  (3)  apply again for the purposes of the retention of
that material (taking references to the  Part 2  notice as references to the
revived or new  Part 2  notice).

8.5

In determining whether there is no further possibility of an appeal against a
decision of the kind mentioned in  sub-paragraph (3) , any power to extend the
time for giving notice of application for leave to appeal, or for applying for
leave to appeal, must be ignored.

9

9.1

This paragraph  applies to paragraph  6  material taken from, or provided by,
an individual—

9.1.a

who has been convicted of a recordable offence (other than a single exempt
conviction) or of an offence in Scotland which is punishable by imprisonment,
or

9.1.b

who is so convicted before the end of the period within which the material may
be retained by virtue of  paragraph 8 .

9.2

The material may be retained indefinitely.

10

10.1

For the purposes of paragraphs  8  and  9  an individual is to be treated as
having been convicted of an offence if—

10.1.a

in relation to a recordable offence in England and Wales or Northern Ireland—

10.1.a.i

the individual has been given a caution or youth caution in respect of the
offence which, at the time of the caution, the individual has admitted,

10.1.a.ii

the individual has been found not guilty of the offence by reason of insanity,
or

10.1.a.iii

the individual has been found to be under a disability and to have done the
act charged in respect of the offence,

10.1.b

the individual, in relation to an offence in Scotland punishable by
imprisonment, has accepted or has been deemed to accept—

10.1.b.i

a conditional offer under section 302 of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act
1995,

10.1.b.ii

a compensation offer under section 302A of that Act,

10.1.b.iii

a combined offer under section 302B of that Act, or

10.1.b.iv

a work offer under section 303ZA of that Act,

10.1.c

the individual, in relation to an offence in Scotland punishable by
imprisonment, has been acquitted on account of the individual’s insanity at
the time of the offence or (as the case may be) by virtue of section 51A of
the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995,

10.1.d

a finding in respect of the individual has been made under section 55(2) of
the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 in relation to an offence in
Scotland punishable by imprisonment,

10.1.e

the individual, having been given a fixed penalty notice under section 129(1)
of the  Antisocial Behaviour etc. (Scotland) Act 2004 (asp 8)  in connection
with an offence in Scotland punishable by imprisonment, has paid—

10.1.e.i

the fixed penalty, or

10.1.e.ii

(as the case may be) the sum which the individual is liable to pay by virtue
of section 131(5) of that Act, or

10.1.f

the individual, in relation to an offence in Scotland punishable by
imprisonment, has been discharged absolutely by order under section 246(3) of
the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995.

10.2

Paragraphs  8 ,  9  and  this paragraph , so far as they relate to individuals
convicted of an offence, have effect despite anything in the Rehabilitation of
Offenders Act 1974 or the Rehabilitation of Offenders (Northern Ireland) Order
1978 ( S.I. 1978/1908 (N.I. 27) ).

10.3

But a person is not to be treated as having been convicted of an offence if
that conviction is a disregarded conviction or caution by virtue of section 92
or 101A of the Protection of Freedoms Act 2012.

10.4

For the purposes of paragraphs  8  and  9 —

10.4.a

an individual has no previous convictions if the individual has not previously
been convicted—

10.4.a.i

in England and Wales or Northern Ireland of a recordable offence, or

10.4.a.ii

in Scotland of an offence which is punishable by imprisonment, and

10.4.b

if the individual has previously been convicted of a recordable offence in
England and Wales or Northern Ireland, the conviction is exempt if it is in
respect of a recordable offence, other than a qualifying offence, committed
when the individual was aged under 18.

10.5

In sub-paragraph  (4)  “qualifying offence”—

10.5.a

in relation to a conviction in respect of a recordable offence committed in
England and Wales, has the meaning given by section 65A of the Police and
Criminal Evidence Act 1984, and

10.5.b

in relation to a conviction in respect of a recordable offence committed in
Northern Ireland, has the meaning given by Article 53A of the Police and
Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/1341 (N.I. 12) ).

10.6

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (4) —

10.6.a

a person is to be treated as having previously been convicted in England and
Wales of a recordable offence if—

10.6.a.i

the person has previously been convicted of an offence under the law of a
country or territory outside the United Kingdom, and

10.6.a.ii

the act constituting the offence would constitute a recordable offence under
the law of England and Wales if done there (whether or not it constituted such
an offence when the person was convicted);

10.6.b

a person is to be treated as having previously been convicted in Northern
Ireland of a recordable offence if—

10.6.b.i

the person has previously been convicted of an offence under the law of a
country or territory outside the United Kingdom, and

10.6.b.ii

the act constituting the offence would constitute a recordable offence under
the law of Northern Ireland if done there (whether or not it constituted such
an offence when the person was convicted);

10.6.c

a person is to be treated as having previously been convicted in Scotland of
an offence which is punishable by imprisonment if—

10.6.c.i

the person has previously been convicted of an offence under the law of a
country or territory outside the United Kingdom, and

10.6.c.ii

the act constituting the offence would constitute an offence punishable by
imprisonment under the law of Scotland if done there (whether or not it
constituted such an offence when the person was convicted);

10.6.d

the reference in  sub-paragraph (4) (b)  to a qualifying offence includes a
reference to an offence under the law of a country or territory outside the
United Kingdom where the act constituting the offence would constitute a
qualifying offence under the law of England and Wales if done there or (as the
case may be) under the law of Northern Ireland if done there (whether or not
it constituted such an offence when the person was convicted).

10.7

For the purposes of paragraph  8 ,  9  or  this paragraph —

10.7.a

“ offence ”, in relation to any country or territory outside the United
Kingdom, includes an act punishable under the law of that country or
territory, however it is described;

10.7.b

a person has in particular been convicted of an offence under the law of a
country or territory outside the United Kingdom if—

10.7.b.i

a court exercising jurisdiction under the law of that country or territory has
made in respect of such an offence a finding equivalent to a finding that the
person is not guilty by reason of insanity, or

10.7.b.ii

such a court has made in respect of such an offence a finding equivalent to a
finding that the person is under a disability and did the act charged against
the person in respect of the offence.

10.8

If an individual is convicted of more than one offence arising out of a single
course of action, those convictions are to be treated as a single conviction
for the purposes of calculating under paragraph  8  or  9  whether the
individual has been convicted of one offence.

11

11.1

Paragraph 6  material may be retained for as long as a national security
determination made by a chief officer of police has effect in relation to it.

11.2

A national security determination is made if a chief officer of police
determines that it is necessary for any  paragraph 6  material to be retained
for the purposes of national security.

11.3

A national security determination—

11.3.a

must be in writing,

11.3.b

has effect for a maximum of 5 years beginning with the date on which the
determination is made, and

11.3.c

may be renewed.

11.4

In  this paragraph  “ chief officer of police ” means—

11.4.a

a chief officer of police of a police force in England and Wales,

11.4.b

the chief constable of the Police Service of Scotland,

11.4.c

the Chief Constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland,

11.4.d

the Chief Constable of the Ministry of Defence Police,

11.4.e

the Chief Constable of the British Transport Police Force, or

11.4.f

the Director General of the National Crime Agency.

12

12.1

This paragraph  applies where  paragraph 6  material is or includes a person’s
fingerprints (“the original fingerprints”).

12.2

A constable may make a determination under  this paragraph  in respect of any
further fingerprints taken from, or provided by, the same person (“the further
fingerprints”) if conditions 1 and 2 are met.

12.3

Condition 1 is met if the further fingerprints—

12.3.a

are  paragraph 6  material,

12.3.b

are taken or provided under or by virtue of—

12.3.b.i

Part 5 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984,

12.3.b.ii

Article 61 of the Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 (
S.I. 1989/1341 (N.I. 12) ),

12.3.b.iii

any provision, power or authority mentioned in section 18G(1) of the Criminal
Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995,

12.3.b.iv

paragraph 10 of Schedule 8 to the Terrorism Act 2000,

12.3.b.v

paragraph 34 of Schedule 3 to the Counter-Terrorism and Border Security Act
2019, or

12.3.b.vi

paragraph  10  of  Schedule 6 , or

12.3.c

are material to which section 18 of the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 applies.

12.4

Condition 2 is met if—

12.4.a

in a case where the further fingerprints are material to which section 18 of
the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 applies, the original fingerprints and the
further fingerprints are held under the law of the same part of the United
Kingdom;

12.4.b

in any other case, the original fingerprints and the further fingerprints were
taken from or provided by the person in the same part of the United Kingdom.

12.5

Where a determination under  this paragraph  is made in respect of the further
fingerprints—

12.5.a

the further fingerprints may be retained for as long as the original
fingerprints are retained under any power conferred by  paragraph 8 , 9 or  11
, and

12.5.b

a requirement under any enactment to destroy the further fingerprints does not
apply for as long as their retention is authorised by  paragraph (a) .

12.6

Sub-paragraph (5) (a)  does not prevent the further fingerprints being
retained after the original fingerprints fall to be destroyed if the continued
retention of the further fingerprints is authorised under any enactment.

12.7

A written record must be made of a determination under  this paragraph .

12.8

In  this paragraph  references to a part of the United Kingdom are references
to—

12.8.a

England and Wales,

12.8.b

Scotland, or

12.8.c

Northern Ireland.

##### Requirement to destroy samples

13

13.1

This paragraph  applies to—

13.1.a

non-intimate samples taken under  paragraph 1 , or

13.1.b

samples taken under  paragraph 4 (2) (b)  or  (c) .

13.2

Samples to which  this paragraph  applies must be destroyed if it appears to
the responsible chief officer of police that the taking of the sample was
unlawful.

13.3

Subject to this, the rule in  sub-paragraph (4)  or (as the case may be)  (5)
applies.

13.4

A DNA sample to which  this paragraph  applies must be destroyed—

13.4.a

as soon as a DNA profile has been derived from the sample, or

13.4.b

if sooner, before the end of the period of 6 months beginning with the date on
which the sample was taken.

13.5

Any other sample to which  this paragraph  applies must be destroyed before
the end of the period of 6 months beginning with the date on which it was
taken.

13.6

Nothing in  this paragraph  prevents a relevant search, in relation to samples
to which  this paragraph  applies, from being carried out within such time as
may reasonably be required for the search if the responsible chief officer of
police considers the search to be desirable.

##### Use of retained material

14

14.1

Any material to which  paragraph 6  or  13  applies must not be used other
than—

14.1.a

in the interests of national security,

14.1.b

for the purposes of investigating foreign power threat activity,

14.1.c

for the purposes of a terrorist investigation (within the meaning of the
Terrorism Act 2000),

14.1.d

for purposes related to the prevention or detection of crime, the
investigation of an offence or the conduct of a prosecution, or

14.1.e

for purposes related to the identification of a deceased person or of the
person to whom the material relates.

14.2

Material which is required by  paragraph 6  or  13  to be destroyed must not
at any time after it is required to be destroyed be used—

14.2.a

in evidence against the individual to whom the material relates, or

14.2.b

for the purposes of the investigation of any offence.

14.3

In  this paragraph —

14.3.a

the reference to using material includes a reference to allowing any check to
be made against it and to disclosing it to any person,

14.3.b

the reference to crime includes a reference to any conduct which—

14.3.b.i

constitutes one or more criminal offences (whether under the law of a part of
the United Kingdom or of a country or territory outside the United Kingdom),
or

14.3.b.ii

is, or corresponds to, any conduct which, if it all took place in any one part
of the United Kingdom, would constitute one or more criminal offences, and

14.3.c

the references to an investigation and to a prosecution include references,
respectively, to any investigation outside the United Kingdom of any crime or
suspected crime and to a prosecution brought in respect of any crime in a
country or territory outside the United Kingdom.

##### Interpretation

15

15.1

In  this Schedule —

“ DNA profile ” means any information derived from a DNA sample; “ DNA sample
” means any material that has come from a human body and consists of or
includes human cells; “ fingerprints ” has the meaning given by section 65(1)
of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 or, in Northern Ireland, Article
53(1) of the Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I.
1989/1341 (N.I.12) ); “ non-intimate sample ” has the meaning given by section
65(1) of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 or, in Northern Ireland,
Article 53(1) of the Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order
1989 ( S.I. 1989/1341 (N.I.12) ); “ paragraph 6 material ” has the meaning
given by  paragraph 6 (2) ; “ police force ” means any of the following— the
metropolitan police force; a police force maintained under  section 2  of the
Police Act 1996 (police forces in England and Wales outside London); the City
of London police force; the Police Service of Scotland; the Police Service of
Northern Ireland; the Police Service of Northern Ireland Reserve; the Ministry
of Defence Police; the National Crime Agency; the British Transport Police
Force; “ recordable offence ” has— in relation to a conviction in England and
Wales, the meaning given by section 118(1) of the Police and Criminal Evidence
Act 1984, and in relation to a conviction in Northern Ireland, the meaning
given by Article 2(2) of the Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland)
Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/1341 (N.I. 12) ); “ relevant physical data ” has the
meaning given by section 18(7A) of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995;
“ relevant search ” means a search carried out for the purpose of checking any
fingerprints, samples, data or information against any of the fingerprints,
samples, data or information mentioned in  paragraph 5 (a)  to (k) ; “
responsible chief officer of police ” means— in relation to fingerprints or
samples taken by a constable of the Ministry of Defence Police, or a DNA
profile derived from a sample so taken, the Chief Constable of the Ministry of
Defence Police; in relation to fingerprints or samples taken by a constable of
the British Transport Police Force, or a DNA profile derived from a sample so
taken, the Chief Constable of the British Transport Police Force; in relation
to fingerprints or samples taken by a constable who is a National Crime Agency
officer, or a DNA profile derived from a sample so taken, the Director General
of the National Crime Agency; otherwise— in relation to fingerprints or
samples taken in England or Wales, or a DNA profile derived from a sample so
taken, the chief officer of police for the relevant police area; in relation
to relevant physical data or samples taken or provided in Scotland, or a DNA
profile derived from a sample so taken, the chief constable of the Police
Service of Scotland; in relation to fingerprints or samples taken in Northern
Ireland, or a DNA profile derived from a sample so taken, the Chief Constable
of the Police Service of Northern Ireland; “ sufficient ” and “ insufficient
”, in relation to a sample, have the same meaning as in Part 5 of the Police
and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (see section 65(1) and (2) of that Act) or, in
Northern Ireland, Part 6 of the Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern
Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/1341 (N.I.12) ) (see Article 53(1) and (3) of
that Order).

15.2

In the definition of “responsible chief officer of police” in  sub-paragraph
(1) , in paragraph (d)(i), “ relevant police area ” means the police area—

15.2.a

in which the material concerned was taken, or

15.2.b

in the case of a DNA profile, in which the sample from which the DNA profile
was derived was taken.

                 Control of a person by a foreign power

Section 66

##### Conditions for control

1

1.1

A person is controlled by a foreign power if one or more of the following
conditions are met.

1.2

Condition 1 is that the foreign power has the right to direct or control, or
actually directs or controls, the person’s activities (in whole or in part).

1.3

Condition 2 is that the foreign power holds, directly or indirectly, more than
25% of the shares in the person.

1.4

Condition 3 is that the foreign power holds, directly or indirectly, more than
25% of the voting rights in the person.

1.5

Condition 4 is that the foreign power holds the right, directly or indirectly,
to appoint or remove an officer of the person.

1.6

Condition 5 is that—

1.6.a

the trustees of a trust, or the members of a partnership, unincorporated
association or other entity, that is not a legal person under the law by which
it is governed meet one or more of conditions 1 to 4 (in their capacity as
such) in relation to the person, and

1.6.b

the foreign power has the right to direct or control, or actually directs or
controls, the activities of that trust or entity (in whole or in part).

2

In this Schedule “officer”—

2.a

in relation to a body corporate, means a director, member of the committee of
management, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar officer of
the body, or a person purporting to act in any such capacity;

2.b

in relation to a partnership, means a partner or person purporting to act as a
partner;

2.c

in relation to an unincorporated association other than a partnership, means a
person who is concerned in the management or control of the association or
purports to act in the capacity of a person so concerned.

##### Interpretation of 

###### Interpretation

3

This Part makes provision about the interpretation of Part 1 of this Schedule.

###### Joint interests

4

If a foreign power holds a share or right jointly with another person (whether
or not a foreign power), each of those persons is to be taken to hold that
share or right.

###### Joint arrangements

5

5.1

If shares or rights held by a foreign power and shares or rights held by
another person (whether or not a foreign power) are the subject of a joint
arrangement between those persons, each of those persons is to be taken to
hold the combined shares or rights of both persons.

5.2

A “joint arrangement” is an arrangement between the holders of shares (or
rights) that they will exercise all or substantially all the rights conferred
by their respective shares (or rights) jointly in a way that is pre-determined
by the arrangement.

5.3

For the meaning of “arrangement”, see  paragraph 12 .

###### Calculating shareholdings

6

6.1

In relation to a person that has a share capital, a reference to holding more
than 25% of the shares in that person is to holding shares comprised in the
issued share capital of that person of a nominal value exceeding (in
aggregate) 25% of that share capital.

6.2

In relation to a person that does not have a share capital—

6.2.a

a reference to holding shares in that person is to holding a right to share in
the capital or, as the case may be, profits of that person;

6.2.b

a reference to holding more than 25% of the shares in that person is to
holding a right or rights to share in more than 25% of the capital or, as the
case may be, profits of that person.

###### Voting rights

7

7.1

A reference to the voting rights in a person is to the rights conferred on
shareholders in respect of their shares (or, in the case of a person not
having a share capital, on members) to vote at general meetings of the person
on all or substantially all matters.

7.2

In relation to a person that does not have general meetings at which matters
are decided by the exercise of voting rights—

7.2.a

a reference to exercising voting rights in the person is to be read as a
reference to exercising rights in relation to the person that are equivalent
to those of a person entitled to exercise voting rights in a company;

7.2.b

a reference to exercising more than 25% of the voting rights in the person is
to be read as a reference to exercising the rights under the constitution of
the person to block changes to the overall policy of the person or to the
terms of its constitution.

8

In applying this Schedule, the voting rights in a person are to be reduced by
any rights held by that person.

###### Shares or rights held “indirectly”

9

9.1

A foreign power holds a share “indirectly” if the foreign power has a majority
stake in a person and that person—

9.1.a

holds the share in question, or

9.1.b

is part of a chain of persons—

9.1.b.i

each of which (other than the last) has a majority stake in the person
immediately below it in the chain, and

9.1.b.ii

the last of which holds the share.

9.2

A foreign power holds a right “indirectly” if the foreign power has a majority
stake in a person and that person—

9.2.a

holds that right, or

9.2.b

is part of a chain of persons—

9.2.b.i

each of which (other than the last) has a majority stake in the person
immediately below it in the chain, and

9.2.b.ii

the last of which holds that right.

9.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraphs  (1)  and  (2) , a foreign power has a
“majority stake” in a person if—

9.3.a

the foreign power holds a majority of the voting rights in the person,

9.3.b

the foreign power is a member of the person and has the right to appoint or
remove an officer of the person,

9.3.c

the foreign power is a member of the person and controls alone, or pursuant to
an agreement with other shareholders or members, a majority of the voting
rights in the person, or

9.3.d

the foreign power has the right to exercise, or actually exercises, dominant
influence or control over the person.

###### Shares held by nominees

10

A share held by a person as a nominee for another is to be treated as held by
the other (and not by the nominee).

###### Rights treated as held by person who controls their exercise

11

11.1

Where a person controls a right, the right is to be treated as held by that
person (and not by the person who in fact holds the right, unless that person
also controls it).

11.2

A person “controls” a right if, by virtue of any arrangement between that
person and others, the right is exercisable only—

11.2.a

by that person,

11.2.b

in accordance with that person’s directions or instructions, or

11.2.c

with that person’s consent or concurrence.

12

12.1

For the purposes of this Schedule, “ arrangement ” includes—

12.1.a

any scheme, agreement or understanding, whether or not it is legally
enforceable, and

12.1.b

any convention, custom or practice of any kind.

12.2

But something does not count as an arrangement unless there is at least some
degree of stability about it (whether by its nature or terms, the time it has
been in existence or otherwise).

###### Rights exercisable only in certain circumstances etc

13

13.1

Rights that are exercisable only in certain circumstances are to be taken into
account only—

13.1.a

where the circumstances have arisen, and for so long as they continue to
obtain, or

13.1.b

when the circumstances are within the control of the person having the rights.

13.2

But rights that are exercisable by an administrator or by creditors while a
person is in relevant insolvency proceedings are not to be taken into account
even while the person is in those proceedings.

13.3

“ Relevant insolvency proceedings ” means—

13.3.a

administration within the meaning of the Insolvency Act 1986,

13.3.b

administration within the meaning of the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order
1989 ( S.I. 1989/2405 (N.I. 19) ), or

13.3.c

proceedings under the insolvency law of another country or territory during
which a person’s assets and affairs are subject to the control or supervision
of a third party or creditor.

13.4

Rights that are normally exercisable but are temporarily incapable of exercise
are to continue to be taken into account.

###### Rights attached to shares held by way of security

14

Rights attached to shares held by way of security provided by a person are to
be treated for the purposes of this Schedule as held by that person—

14.a

where apart from the right to exercise them for the purpose of preserving the
value of the security, or of realising it, the rights are exercisable only in
accordance with that person’s instructions, and

14.b

where the shares are held in connection with the granting of loans as part of
normal business activities and apart from the right to exercise them for the
purpose of preserving the value of the security, or of realising it, the
rights are exercisable only in that person’s interests.

##### Power to amend thresholds etc

15

15.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this Schedule for a permitted
purpose.

15.2

The permitted purposes are—

15.2.a

to replace any or all references in this Schedule to a percentage figure with
references to some other (larger or smaller) percentage figure;

15.2.b

to change or supplement  Part 1  of this Schedule so as to include
circumstances (for example, circumstances involving more complex structures)
that give a foreign power a level of control over a person broadly similar to
the level of control given by the conditions in paragraph  1 ;

15.2.c

in consequence of any provision made by virtue of paragraph  (b) , to change
or supplement  Part 2  of this Schedule so that circumstances specified in
that Part in which a person is to be regarded as holding an interest in
another person correspond to any of the conditions in  paragraph 1 , or would
do so but for the extent of the interest.

                 Public officials

Section 70

##### Ministers

1

A Minister of the Crown (within the meaning of the Ministers of the Crown Act
1975).

2

A Northern Ireland Minister, the First Minister in Northern Ireland, the
deputy First Minister in Northern Ireland or a person appointed as a junior
Minister under section 19 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998.

3

The First Minister for Scotland, a Minister appointed under section 47 of the
Scotland Act 1998 or a junior Scottish Minister.

4

The First Minister for Wales, a Welsh Minister appointed under section 48 of
the Government of Wales Act 2006, the Counsel General to the Welsh Government
or a Deputy Welsh Minister appointed under section 50 of that Act.

##### MPs etc

5

A member of either House of Parliament.

6

A member of the Northern Ireland Assembly.

7

A member of the Scottish Parliament.

8

A member of Senedd Cymru.

9

An employee or other member of staff of a person within any of paragraphs  5
to  8 .

##### Local government

10

The Mayor of London.

11

A mayor for the area of a combined authority established under section 103 of
the Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009.

##### Political parties

12

An officer, trustee or agent of a UK registered political party (within the
meaning of section  70 ).

13

A member of such a political party who exercises executive functions on behalf
of the party.

##### Election candidates

14

A candidate at an election for a relevant elective office (within the meaning
of section 37 of the Elections Act 2022).

15

A candidate at an election for a relevant Scottish elective office (within the
meaning of that section).

##### Civil servants

16

16.1

A member of—

16.1.a

the Senior Civil Service;

16.1.b

the Northern Ireland Senior Civil Service;

16.1.c

the Senior Management Structure of His Majesty’s Diplomatic Service.

16.2

A person who serves the government in a position in the civil service of the
State and whose appointment to that position meets the requirements applicable
to that position set out in section 15(1) of the Constitutional Reform and
Governance Act 2010 (special advisers).

16.3

A special adviser within the meaning of section 1 of the  Civil Service
(Special Advisers) Act (Northern Ireland) 2013 (c. 8 (N.I.))  (special
advisers).

##### Military personnel

17

17.1

An officer subject to service law who is of or above the rank of commodore,
brigadier or air commodore.

17.2

In sub-paragraph  (1) , “ subject to service law ” has the same meaning as in
the Armed Forces Act 2006 (see section 374 of that Act).

##### Police

18

The chief constable or deputy chief constable of a police force maintained
under section 2 of the Police Act 1996.

19

A police and crime commissioner.

20

A person of one of the following ranks of the metropolitan police force—

20.a

Commissioner of Police of the Metropolis;

20.b

Deputy Commissioner of Police of the Metropolis;

20.c

Assistant Commissioner of Police of the Metropolis;

20.d

Deputy Assistant Commissioner of Police of the Metropolis.

21

The Commissioner of Police for the City of London or an Assistant Commissioner
of Police for the City of London.

22

The chief constable or deputy chief constable of the Police Service of
Northern Ireland.

23

The chief constable or a deputy chief constable of the Police Service of
Scotland.

24

The chief constable or a deputy chief constable of the Ministry of Defence
Police.

25

The chief constable or deputy chief constable of the British Transport Police
Force.

26

The chief constable or deputy chief constable of the Civil Nuclear
Constabulary.

##### Persons exercising public functions

27

27.1

A person exercising public functions who is specified by the Secretary of
State in regulations.

27.2

“ Public functions ” means functions of a public nature—

27.2.a

exercisable in the United Kingdom, or

27.2.b

exercisable in a country or territory outside the United Kingdom by a person
acting for or on behalf of, or holding office under, the Crown.

                 Exemptions

Section  73

##### UK arrangements

1

1.1

Sections  65 (4)  and  69 (3)  (requirements to register foreign activity
arrangements and foreign influence arrangements) do not apply to foreign
activity arrangements or foreign influence arrangements that are UK
arrangements.

1.2

The following provisions do not apply to activities carried out in accordance
with a UK arrangement—

1.2.a

section  68 (1)  to  (3)  (specified persons etc must not carry out
unregistered activities);

1.2.b

section  72 (1)  (foreign powers etc must not carry out unregistered political
influence activities).

1.3

A “UK arrangement” is an arrangement or agreement to which—

1.3.a

the United Kingdom is a party, or

1.3.b

any person acting for or on behalf of, or holding office under, the Crown is
(in that capacity) a party.

##### Foreign powers

2

The following provisions do not apply to a foreign power—

2.a

section  65 (4)  (requirement to register foreign activity arrangements);

2.b

section  67 (2)  or  (3)  (offence of carrying out activities under
unregistered foreign activity arrangement);

2.c

section  69 (3)  (requirement to register foreign influence arrangements);

2.d

section  71 (2)  or  (3)  (offence of carrying out activities under
unregistered foreign influence arrangement);

2.e

section  78 (1)  and  (2)  (offences of carrying out activities tainted by
false information).

##### Diplomatic missions etc

3

3.1

Section  65 (4)  (requirement to register foreign activity arrangements) does
not apply to the extent that the foreign activity arrangement relates to the
provision of goods or services which are reasonably necessary to support the
efficient functioning of—

3.1.a

a diplomatic mission,

3.1.b

a consular post, or

3.1.c

the permanent mission to a UK-based international organisation of a country
which is a member of the organisation,

(for example, the provision of catering or maintenance services).

3.2

Sections  65 (4)  and  69 (3)  (requirements to register foreign activity
arrangements and foreign influence arrangements) do not apply where P (within
the meaning of those sections)—

3.2.a

is a member of the family of a principal person forming part of the principal
person’s household, and

3.2.b

makes the arrangement pursuant to an activity carried out by the principal
person in that capacity.

3.3

“ Principal person ” means a person who is a member of staff of—

3.3.a

a diplomatic mission,

3.3.b

a consular post, or

3.3.c

the permanent mission to a UK-based international organisation of a country
which is a member of the organisation.

3.4

The members of the family of a principal person forming part of the principal
person’s household include a person who is living with the principal person as
their partner in an enduring family relationship.

3.5

“Member of staff”—

3.5.a

in the case of a diplomatic mission, means a member of the mission within the
meaning given by Article 1 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations
(set out in Schedule 1 to the Diplomatic Privileges Act 1964);

3.5.b

in the case of a consular post, means a member of the consular post within the
meaning given by Article 1 of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations (set
out in Schedule 1 to the Consular Relations Act 1968).

3.6

In this paragraph—

                                    “ consular post ” has the meaning given by
Article 1 of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations (set out in Schedule
1 to the Consular Relations Act 1968);
“ diplomatic mission ” is to be read in accordance with the Vienna Convention
on Diplomatic Relations done at Vienna on 18 April 1961;
“ UK-based international organisation ” means an international organisation
which has its headquarters in the United Kingdom and on which privileges and
immunities have been conferred under section 1 of the International
Organisations Act 1968.

##### Recognised news publishers

4

4.1

The following provisions do not apply to a recognised news publisher—

4.1.a

section  69 (3)  (requirement to register foreign influence arrangements);

4.1.b

section  71 (2)  or  (3)  (offence of carrying out activities under
unregistered foreign influence arrangement);

4.1.c

section  78 (2)  (offence of carrying out political influence activities
tainted by false information).

4.2

The following provisions do not apply to a person who is not a recognised news
publisher, where the foreign influence arrangement in question is a news-
related foreign influence arrangement—

4.2.a

section  69 (3)  (requirement to register foreign influence arrangements);

4.2.b

section  71 (2)  or  (3)  (offence of carrying out activities under
unregistered foreign influence arrangement);

4.2.c

section  78 (2)  (offence of carrying out political influence activities
tainted by false information).

4.3

A “news-related foreign influence arrangement” is a foreign influence
arrangement made between a person and a foreign power who is a recognised news
publisher where the purpose, or one of the purposes, of the arrangement is the
publication of news-related material.

4.4

In this paragraph “ news-related material ”, “ publish ”, and “ recognised
news publisher ” have the meaning given by  paragraph 5 .

5

5.1

In  paragraph 4 , “ recognised news publisher ” means any of the following
entities—

5.1.a

the British Broadcasting Corporation,

5.1.b

Sianel Pedwar Cymru,

5.1.c

the holder of a licence under the Broadcasting Act 1990 or 1996 who publishes
news-related material in connection with the broadcasting activities
authorised under the licence, and

5.1.d

any other entity which—

5.1.d.i

meets all of the conditions in sub-paragraph  (2) ,

5.1.d.ii

is not an excluded entity (see sub-paragraph  (3) ), and

5.1.d.iii

is not a sanctioned entity (see sub-paragraph  (4) ).

5.2

The conditions referred to in sub-paragraph  (1) (d) (i)  are that the entity—

5.2.a

has as its principal purpose the publication of news-related material, and
such material—

5.2.a.i

is created by different persons, and

5.2.a.ii

is subject to editorial control,

5.2.b

publishes such material in the course of a business (whether or not carried on
with a view to profit),

5.2.c

is subject to a standards code,

5.2.d

has policies and procedures for handling and resolving complaints,

5.2.e

has a registered office or other business address,

5.2.f

is the person with legal responsibility for material published by it in the
United Kingdom, and

5.2.g

publishes—

5.2.g.i

the entity’s name, the address mentioned in paragraph  (e)  and the entity’s
registered number (if any), and

5.2.g.ii

the name and address of any person who controls the entity (including, where
such a person is an entity, the address of that person’s registered or
principal office and that person’s registered number (if any)).

5.3

An “excluded entity” is an entity—

5.3.a

which is a proscribed organisation under the Terrorism Act 2000 (see section 3
of that Act), or

5.3.b

the purpose of which is to support a proscribed organisation under that Act.

5.4

A “sanctioned entity” is an entity which—

5.4.a

is designated by name under a power contained in regulations under section 1
of the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018 that authorises the
Secretary of State or the Treasury to designate persons for the purposes of
the regulations or of any provisions of the regulations, or

5.4.b

is a designated person under any provision included in such regulations by
virtue of section 13 of that Act (persons named by or under UN Security
Council Resolutions).

5.5

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (2) —

5.5.a

news-related material is “subject to editorial control” if there is a person
(whether or not the publisher of the material) who has editorial or equivalent
responsibility for the material, including responsibility for how it is
presented and the decision to publish it;

5.5.b

“ control ” has the same meaning as it has in the Broadcasting Act 1990 by
virtue of section 202 of that Act.

5.6

In this paragraph—

                                    “ news-related material ” means material
consisting of—
news or information about current affairs,
opinion about matters relating to the news or current affairs, or
gossip about celebrities, other public figures or other persons in the news;
“ publish ” means publish by any means (including by broadcasting), and
references to a publisher and publication are to be construed accordingly;
“ standards code ” means—
a code of standards that regulates the conduct of publishers, that is
published by an independent regulator, or
a code of standards that regulates the conduct of the entity in question, that
is published by the entity itself.

##### Legal activities

6

6.1

Sections  65 (4)  and  69 (3)  (requirements to register foreign activity
arrangements and foreign influence arrangements) do not apply in relation to a
foreign activity arrangement or a foreign influence arrangement to the extent
that the arrangement relates to the carrying on of a legal activity by a
lawyer.

6.2

The following provisions do not apply to the carrying on of a legal activity
by a lawyer—

6.2.a

section  68 (1)  to  (3)  (specified persons etc must not carry out
unregistered activities);

6.2.b

section  72 (1)  (foreign powers etc must not carry out unregistered political
influence activities).

6.3

“ Lawyer ” means—

6.3.a

a person who for the purposes of the Legal Services Act 2007 is an authorised
person in relation to an activity that constitutes a reserved legal activity
(within the meaning of that Act),

6.3.b

a solicitor or barrister in Northern Ireland,

6.3.c

a solicitor or advocate in Scotland, or

6.3.d

a person who is a member, and entitled to practise as such, of a legal
profession regulated in a jurisdiction outside the United Kingdom.

6.4

“ Legal activity ” means—

6.4.a

in England and Wales, a legal activity within the meaning of section 12 of the
Legal Services Act 2007,

6.4.b

in Northern Ireland, a legal activity within the meaning of that section, but
reading the reference to an activity which is a reserved legal activity as a
reference to an activity corresponding to a reserved legal activity,

6.4.c

in Scotland, the provision of legal services within the meaning of section 3
of the  Legal Services (Scotland) Act 2010 (asp 16) , or

6.4.d

acting as an arbitrator or mediator.

##### Employees etc

7

7.1

Where an exemption is conferred on a person (“ P ”) by this Schedule, the
following are also exempt (subject to sub-paragraph  (2) )—

7.1.a

a person who holds office in or under, or is an employee or other member of
staff of, P (acting in that capacity), or

7.1.b

a person the Secretary of State reasonably considers to be exercising
functions on behalf of P as if the person were within paragraph  (a) .

7.2

Where P is a foreign power, the exemption does not apply to persons within
sub-paragraph  (1) (a)  if or to the extent that the person makes a
misrepresentation about their activities or the capacity in which they act
(whether generally or to a particular person).

7.3

A misrepresentation is a representation that a reasonable person would
consider to be false or misleading in a material way.

7.4

A misrepresentation may be made by making a statement or by any other kind of
conduct (including an omission), and may be express or implied.

7.5

A misrepresentation may in particular include—

7.5.a

a misrepresentation as to the person’s identity or purpose;

7.5.b

presenting information in a way which amounts to a misrepresentation, even if
some or all of the information is true.

##### Power to provide for further exemptions

8

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for further cases to
which any provision of this Part does not apply.

                 Damages at risk of being used for the purposes of terrorism

Section  88

##### Freezing orders

1

1.1

This Schedule  applies in relation to civil proceedings where the claimant
claims damages in those proceedings.

1.2

The court seised of those proceedings may, on the application of a Minister of
the Crown, make a freezing order under  this paragraph .

1.3

A freezing order, in relation to an order made by the court awarding damages
in favour of the claimant, is an order that all or part of the damages
awarded—

1.3.a

are to be paid into court, and

1.3.b

are to remain in court until the end of the initial freezing period.

1.4

A court may not make a freezing order unless satisfied that, if damages are
paid to the claimant, there is a real risk that those damages will be used for
the purposes of terrorism.

1.5

An application for a freezing order may be made at any time until there is no
further possibility of an appeal on which the order awarding damages in favour
of the claimant may be varied or quashed.

1.6

Any power to extend the time for giving notice of application for leave to
appeal, or for applying for leave to appeal, must be ignored for the purposes
of  sub-paragraph (5) .

1.7

Where the court makes an order awarding damages in favour of the claimant, the
court may suspend the effect of that order until it decides the application
for a freezing order.

1.8

In  this paragraph —

                                    “ civil proceedings ” means any
proceedings other than proceedings in a criminal cause or matter or family
proceedings;
“ family proceedings ”—
in relation to England and Wales, has the meaning given by section 75(3) of
the Courts Act 2003;
in relation to Northern Ireland, has the meaning given by Article 12(5) of the
Family Law (Northern Ireland) Order 1993 ( S.I. 1993/1576 (N.I. 6) );
in relation to Scotland, has the meaning given by section 135 of the  Courts
Reform (Scotland) Act 2014 (asp 18)  and includes proceedings under the
Children (Scotland) Act 1995 and the  Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011
(asp 1) ;
“ the initial freezing period ” is the period of 2 years beginning with the
day on which the freezing order is made.

##### Extension of freezing order

2

2.1

This paragraph  applies where a court has made a freezing order under
paragraph 1 .

2.2

The court may, on the application of a Minister of the Crown, make an
extension order under  this paragraph .

2.3

An extension order is an order that all or part of the damages paid into court
pursuant to a freezing order are to remain in court until the end of the
period of 4 years beginning with the day on which the freezing order was made
(“the extended freezing period”).

2.4

A court may not make an extension order unless satisfied that, if the damages
to which the extension order relates are paid to the claimant at the end of
the initial freezing period (or, if later, when the court decides the
application), there is a real risk that those damages will be used for the
purposes of terrorism.

2.5

An application for an extension order must be made before the end of the
initial freezing period.

2.6

Sub-paragraph (7)  applies where—

2.6.a

an application is made under  this paragraph , and

2.6.b

the court has not decided the application before the end of the initial
freezing period.

2.7

The damages to which the application relates are to remain in court until the
court decides the application.

##### Forfeiture

3

3.1

This paragraph  applies where a court has made an extension order under
paragraph 2 .

3.2

The court may, on the application of a Minister of the Crown, order that all
or part of the damages in court by virtue of the extension order are to be
forfeited (a “forfeiture order”).

3.3

The court may not make a forfeiture order unless satisfied that, if the
damages to which the forfeiture order relates are paid to the claimant at the
end of the extended freezing period (or, if later, when the court decides the
application), there is a real risk that those damages will be used for the
purposes of terrorism.

3.4

Damages forfeited pursuant to a forfeiture order, and any accrued interest on
those damages, are to be paid into the Consolidated Fund when there is no
further possibility of an appeal on which the forfeiture order may be varied
or quashed.

3.5

Any power to extend the time for giving notice of application for leave to
appeal, or for applying for leave to appeal, must be ignored for the purposes
of  sub-paragraph (4) .

3.6

An application for a forfeiture order must be made before the end of the
extended freezing period.

3.7

Sub-paragraph (8)  applies where—

3.7.a

an application is made under  this paragraph , and

3.7.b

the court has not decided the application before the end of the extended
freezing period.

3.8

The damages to which the application relates are to remain in court until the
court decides the application.

##### Interpretation

4

In  this Schedule —

                  “ the claimant ” means the claimant in proceedings mentioned
in  paragraph 1 (1) ;
“ the extended freezing period ” has the meaning given by  paragraph 2 (3) ;
“ extension order ” has the meaning given by  paragraph 2 (3) ;
“ freezing order ” has the meaning given by  paragraph 1 (3) ;
“ the initial freezing period ” has the meaning given by  paragraph 1 (8) ;
“ Minister of the Crown ” has the same meaning as in the Ministers of the
Crown Act 1975 and also includes the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue
and Customs;
“ terrorism ” has the same meaning as in the Terrorism Act 2000.

5

5.1

In the application of  this Schedule  to Northern Ireland, a reference to a
claimant is to be read as a reference to a plaintiff.

5.2

In the application of  this Schedule  to Scotland, a reference to a claimant
is to be read as a reference to a pursuer or, as the case may be, a plaintiff.

                 Amendments of Terrorism Act 2000

Section 92

1

1.1

Section 41 to the Terrorism Act 2000 (arrest without warrant) is amended as
follows.

1.2

In subsection (3)(b)—

1.2.a

for the words from “Schedule 7” to “2019,” substitute  “a provision listed in
subsection  (3A) ” ;

1.2.b

for “examination under that Schedule” substitute  “detention under that
provision” .

1.3

After subsection (3) insert—

1.3.3A

Those provisions are—

1.3.3A.a

section 24 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984;

1.3.3A.b

Article 26 of the Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 (
S.I. 1989/1341 (N.I. 12) );

1.3.3A.c

Schedule 7;

1.3.3A.d

section 1 of the  Criminal Justice (Scotland) Act 2016 (asp 1) ;

1.3.3A.e

Part 1 of Schedule 3 to the Counter-Terrorism and Border Security Act 2019;

1.3.3A.f

section  27  of the National Security Act 2023.

1.4

After subsection (8) insert—

1.4.8ZA

Subsection (8A) applies where—

1.4.8ZA.a

a person is detained under this section in hospital, or

1.4.8ZA.b

a person detained under this section is removed to hospital because the person
needs medical treatment.

1.5

In subsection (8A)—

1.5.a

for the words before paragraph (a) substitute  “Where this subsection applies”
;

1.5.b

in paragraph (a) after “hospital or” insert  “(where this subsection applies
by virtue of subsection  (8ZA) (b) )” ;

1.5.c

in paragraph (b) after “hospital or” insert  “(where this subsection applies
by virtue of subsection  (8ZA) (b) )” .

2

2.1

Schedule 5 to the Terrorism Act 2000 (terrorist investigations) is amended as
follows.

2.2

In paragraph 3 (power to search premises within cordoned area)—

2.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1) for the words from “Subject” to “superintendent”
substitute  “A constable” ;

2.2.b

in sub-paragraph (2) for the words from “who” to “paragraph” substitute  “may
exercise the power in sub-paragraph (1) only” .

2.3

In paragraph 15 (search and seizure in urgent cases: England, Wales and
Northern Ireland)—

2.3.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (1) insert  “(subject to sub-paragraph  (1A) )” ;

2.3.b

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

2.3.b.1A

An order under this paragraph giving the authority which may be given by a
search warrant under paragraph 11 does not authorise a constable to retain
confidential journalistic material.

2.3.b.1B

“ Confidential journalistic material ” means material which is excluded
material by virtue of section 11(1)(c) of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act
1984.

2.4

After paragraph 15 insert—

2.4.15A

2.4.15A.1

This paragraph applies where confidential journalistic material is seized by
virtue of an order under paragraph 15 giving the authority which may be given
by a search warrant under paragraph 11.

2.4.15A.2

A constable may apply to a Circuit judge for the issue of a warrant under this
paragraph.

2.4.15A.3

An application under sub-paragraph  (2)  must be made as soon as reasonably
practicable after the material is seized.

2.4.15A.4

The judge may grant an application under sub-paragraph  (2)  if satisfied that
conditions 1 to 3 are met.

2.4.15A.5

Condition 1 is that the warrant is sought for the purposes of a terrorist
investigation.

2.4.15A.6

Condition 2 is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the
material is likely to be of substantial value, whether by itself or with other
material, to a terrorist investigation.

2.4.15A.7

Condition 3 is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that it is in
the public interest that the material should be retained having regard to the
benefit likely to accrue to the terrorist investigation if the material is
retained.

2.4.15A.8

A warrant under this paragraph is a warrant authorising the retention of
confidential journalistic material.

2.4.15A.9

A warrant under this paragraph may impose conditions on the retention and use
of the material.

2.4.15A.10

If the judge does not grant an application for the issue of a warrant under
this paragraph in relation to any of the material to which the application
relates, the judge may direct that the material is—

2.4.15A.10.a

returned to the person from whom it was seized, or

2.4.15A.10.b

destroyed.

2.4.15A.11

“ Confidential journalistic material ” has the same meaning as in paragraph
15.

2.5

In paragraph 18 (application to Northern Ireland) before paragraph (f) insert—

2.5.ea

the reference in paragraph 15 (1B)  to section 11(1)(c) of the Police and
Criminal Evidence Act 1984 is to be taken as a reference to Article 13(1)(c)
of the Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I.
1989/1341 (N.I. 12) ),

.

2.6

In paragraph 31 (search and seizure in urgent cases: Scotland)—

2.6.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (1) insert  “(subject to sub-paragraph  (1A) )” ;

2.6.b

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

2.6.b.1A

An order under this paragraph does not authorise a constable to retain
confidential journalistic material.

2.6.b.1B

“ Confidential journalistic material ” has the same meaning as in the
Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (see section 264(6) and (7) of that Act).

2.7

After paragraph 31 insert—

2.7.31A

2.7.31A.1

This paragraph applies where confidential journalistic material is seized by
virtue of an order under paragraph 31.

2.7.31A.2

The procurator fiscal may apply to a sheriff for the issue of a warrant under
this paragraph.

2.7.31A.3

An application under sub-paragraph  (2)  must be made as soon as reasonably
practicable.

2.7.31A.4

The sheriff may grant an application under sub-paragraph  (2)  if satisfied
that conditions 1 to 3 are met.

2.7.31A.5

Condition 1 is that the warrant is sought for the purposes of a terrorist
investigation.

2.7.31A.6

Condition 2 is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the
material is likely to be of substantial value, whether by itself or with other
material, to a terrorist investigation.

2.7.31A.7

Condition 3 is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that it is in
the public interest that the material should be retained having regard to the
benefit likely to accrue to the terrorist investigation if the material is
retained.

2.7.31A.8

A warrant under this paragraph is a warrant authorising the retention of
confidential journalistic material.

2.7.31A.9

A warrant under this paragraph may impose conditions on the retention and use
of the material.

2.7.31A.10

If the sheriff does not grant an application for the issue of a warrant under
this paragraph in relation to any of the material to which the application
relates, the sheriff may direct that the material is—

2.7.31A.10.a

returned to the person from whom it was seized, or

2.7.31A.10.b

destroyed.

2.7.31A.11

“ Confidential journalistic material ” has the same meaning as in paragraph
31.

                 Minor and consequential amendments

Section 94

##### Official Secrets Act 1911 (c. 28)

1

The Official Secrets Act 1911 is repealed.

##### Official Secrets Act 1920 (c. 75)

2

The Official Secrets Act 1920 is repealed.

##### Official Secrets Act 1939 (c. 121)

3

The Official Secrets Act 1939 is repealed.

##### Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (c. 60)

4

4.1

The Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 is amended as follows.

4.2

In section 56 (right to have someone informed when arrested), in subsection
(10), after “the terrorism provisions” insert  “or under  section 27  of the
National Security Act 2023,” .

4.3

In section 58 (right to consult a solicitor), in subsection (12), after “the
terrorism provisions” insert  “or under  section 27  of the National Security
Act 2023,” .

4.4

In section 61 (fingerprinting), in subsection (9)(b), after “the terrorism
provisions” insert  “or under  section 27  of the National Security Act 2023,”
.

4.5

In section 63F (retention of fingerprints and DNA profiles for persons
arrested for or charged with a qualifying offence)—

4.5.a

in subsections (5)(a) and (5A)(a), after “terrorism-related qualifying
offence” insert  “or a national security-related qualifying offence” ;

4.5.b

in subsection (11), in the appropriate place insert—

                                                               “ national
security-related qualifying offence ” means—
an offence under  section 18  of the National Security Act 2023 or for the
time being listed in  section 33 (3)(a) of that Act, or
an ancillary offence, as defined in section 65A(5), relating to an offence for
the time being listed in  section 33 (3)(a) of that Act,

.

4.6

In section 63U (exclusions for certain regimes), after subsection (4A) insert—

4.6.4B

Sections 63D to 63T do not apply to material to which—

4.6.4B.a

Part  4  of  Schedule 6  to the National Security Act 2023 applies, or

4.6.4B.b

paragraph  6  of  Schedule 12  to that Act applies.

4.7

In section 65A(2) (meaning of “ qualifying offence ”), after paragraph (u)
insert—

4.7.v

an offence under  section 18  of the National Security Act 2023 or for the
time being listed in  section 33 (3)(a) of that Act.

##### Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 (

5

5.1

The Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I.
1989/1341 (N.I. 12) ) is amended as follows.

5.2

In Article 53A (meaning of “ qualifying offence ”), after paragraph (2)(v)
insert—

5.2.w

an offence under  section 18  of the National Security Act 2023 or for the
time being listed in  section 33 (3) (a)  of that Act.

5.3

In Article 57 (right to have someone informed when arrested), in paragraph
(10), after “the terrorism provisions” insert  “or under  section 27  of the
National Security Act 2023,” .

5.4

In Article 59 (right to consult a solicitor), in paragraph (12), after “the
terrorism provisions” insert  “or under  section 27  of the National Security
Act 2023,” .

5.5

In Article 61 (fingerprinting), in paragraph (9)(b), after “the terrorism
provisions” insert  “or under  section 27  of the National Security Act 2023,”
.

5.6

In Article 62 (intimate samples), after paragraph (12) insert—

5.6.12A

Nothing in this Article applies to a person arrested or detained under
section 27  of the National Security Act 2023; and paragraph (1A) does not
apply where the non‐intimate samples mentioned in that paragraph were taken
under paragraph  10  of  Schedule 6  to that Act.

5.7

In Article 63 (other samples), in paragraph (11), after “the terrorism
provisions” insert  “or under  section 27  of the National Security Act 2023,”
.

5.8

In Article 63R (as inserted by Schedule 2 to the  Criminal Justice Act
(Northern Ireland) 2013 (c. 7 (N.I.)) , after paragraph (4A) (as inserted by
Schedule 4 to the Counter-Terrorism and Border Security Act 2019) insert—

5.8.4B

Articles 63B to 63Q do not apply to material to which—

5.8.4B.a

Part  4  of  Schedule 6  to the National Security Act 2023 applies, or

5.8.4B.b

paragraph  6  of  Schedule 12  to that Act applies.

5.9

In Article 64 (destruction of fingerprints and samples), in paragraph (8)(b),
after “the terrorism provisions” insert  “or under  section 27  of the
National Security Act 2023” .

##### Official Secrets Act 1989 (c. 6)

6

6.1

The Official Secrets Act 1989 is amended as follows.

6.2

In section 5(6) (offence of disclosing information obtained by espionage) for
“section 1 of the Official Secrets Act 1911” substitute  “any of sections  1
to  4  of the National Security Act 2023” .

6.3

In section 11 (arrest, search and trial)—

6.3.a

for subsections (3) and (3A) substitute—

6.3.a.3

Schedule  2  to the National Security Act 2023 (powers of entry, search and
seizure) applies in relation to a relevant offence as it applies in relation
to a relevant act (within the meaning given by paragraphs  1  and  18  of that
Schedule).

;

6.3.b

for subsection (4) substitute—

6.3.b.4

If it is necessary in the interests of national security, a court may exclude
the public from any part of proceedings for a relevant offence, except the
passing of sentence.

;

6.3.c

after subsection (4) insert—

6.3.c.4A

In this section a “ relevant offence ” means an offence under any provision of
this Act other than section 8(1), (4) or (5).

##### Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 (c. 46)

7

7.1

Section 19C of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 (use of samples etc)
is amended as follows.

7.2

In subsection (1)(a) and (b), after “2019” insert  “or paragraph 18 of
Schedule 6  to the National Security Act 2023” .

7.3

In subsection (2)—

7.3.a

in paragraph (c) omit “or”;

7.3.b

after that paragraph insert—

7.3.b.ca

for the purposes of investigating foreign power threat activity, or

.

7.4

In subsection (6)—

7.4.a

in paragraph (c) omit “and”;

7.4.b

after that paragraph insert—

7.4.b.ca

“ foreign power threat activity ” has the meaning given by  section 33  of the
National Security Act 2023, and

.

##### Protection of Freedoms Act 2012 (c. 9)

8

8.1

Section 20 of the Protection of Freedoms Act 2012 (appointment and functions
of Commissioner) is amended as follows.

8.2

In subsection (2)(a), after sub-paragraph (iva) insert—

8.2.ivb

paragraph  22  of  Schedule 6  to the National Security Act 2023,

8.2.ivc

paragraph  11  of  Schedule 12  to that Act,

.

8.3

In subsection (6), after paragraph (e) insert—

8.3.f

the retention and use in accordance with Part  4  of  Schedule 6  to the
National Security Act 2023 of—

8.3.f.i

any material to which paragraph  19  or  25  of that Schedule applies
(fingerprints, relevant physical data, DNA profiles and samples), and

8.3.f.ii

any copies of any material to which paragraph  19  of that Schedule applies
(fingerprints, relevant physical data and DNA profiles),

8.3.g

the retention and use in accordance with paragraphs  5  to  15  of  Schedule
12  to the National Security Act 2023 of—

8.3.g.i

any material to which paragraph  6  or  13  of that Schedule applies
(fingerprints, relevant physical data, DNA profiles and samples), and

8.3.g.ii

any copies of any material to which paragraph  6  of that Schedule applies
(fingerprints, relevant physical data and DNA profiles).

##### Modern Slavery Act 2015 (c. 30)

9

In Schedule 4 to the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (offences to which defence in
section 45 does not apply), after paragraph 36B insert—

######### National Security Act 2023

9.36C

An offence under any of the following provisions of the National Security Act
2023—

                                          section 1  (obtaining or disclosing
protected information);
section 2  (obtaining or disclosing trade secrets);
section 3  (assisting a foreign intelligence service);
section 4  (entering a prohibited place for a purpose prejudicial to the UK);
section 12  (sabotage);
section 13  (foreign interference: general);
section  17  (obtaining material benefits from a foreign intelligence
service);
section 18  (preparatory conduct).

##### Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (c. 25)

10

10.1

Schedule 3 to the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 (exceptions to the exclusion
of certain matters from legal proceedings) is amended as follows.

10.2

After paragraph 8 insert—

########### Proceedings under 

10.2.8A

10.2.8A.1

Section 56(1) does not apply in relation to—

10.2.8A.1.a

any proceedings which are relevant proceedings within the meaning of  Part 2
of the National Security Act 2023 (see  section 62 (1)  of that Act), or

10.2.8A.1.b

any proceedings arising out of any proceedings within paragraph  (a) .

10.2.8A.2

But sub-paragraph  (1)  does not permit the disclosure of anything to—

10.2.8A.2.a

any person, other than the Secretary of State, who is or was a party to the
proceedings, or

10.2.8A.2.b

any person who—

10.2.8A.2.b.i

represents such a person for the purposes of the proceedings, and

10.2.8A.2.b.ii

does so otherwise than by virtue of an appointment as a special advocate under
Schedule 10  to the National Security Act 2023.

10.3

In paragraph 20(2) (proceedings for certain offences)—

10.3.a

 after paragraph (h) insert—

10.3.a.ha

an offence under  section 1  or  3  of the National Security Act 2023 relating
to any information, document or other article which, or an offence under
section 12  of that Act relating to any asset which—

10.3.a.ha.i

incorporates, or relates to, the content of any intercepted communication or
any secondary data obtained from a communication, or

10.3.a.ha.ii

tends to suggest that any interception-related conduct has or may have
occurred or may be going to occur;

10.3.a.hb

an offence under  section 18  of the National Security Act 2023 in relation to
an offence falling within paragraph  (ha) ;

;

10.3.b

in paragraph (i), for “(h)” substitute  “ (ha) ” .

##### Counter-Terrorism and Border Security Act 2019 (c. 3)

11

In paragraph 62 of Schedule 3 to the Counter-Terrorism and Border Security Act
2019 (review of Schedule 3 by Investigatory Powers Commissioner) omit—

11.a

sub-paragraphs (1) to (5);

11.b

sub-paragraphs (7) and (8).

