Title: National Insurance Contributions (Reduction in Rates) Act 2023
Date: 2024-03-28
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/57

## National Insurance Contributions (Reduction in Rates) Act 2023

      B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Reduction of Class 1 main primary percentage

1

1.1

In the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992, in section 8(2)(a)
(main primary percentage), for “12 per cent” substitute  “10%” .

1.2

In the Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992,
in section 8(2)(a) (main primary percentage), for “12 per cent” substitute
“10%” .

1.3

In regulation 131 of the Social Security (Contributions) Regulations 2001—

1.3.a

omit “On and after 6th April 2011”, and

1.3.b

for “5.85 per cent” substitute  “3.85%” .

1.4

The amendments made by  this section  come into force on 6 January 2024.

### Reduction of main Class 4 percentage

2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Removal of requirement to pay Class 2 contributions

3

3.1

In section 11 of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992
(Class 2 contributions)—

3.1.a

omit subsection (2),

3.1.b

in subsection (4), omit paragraph (a),

3.1.c

omit subsection (5),

3.1.d

in subsection (5A), omit the words from “but” to the end,

3.1.e

in subsection (5B), omit “under subsection (2)”, and

3.1.f

in subsection (8), for “subsections (2) and” substitute  “subsection” .

3.2

In section 11 of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern
Ireland) Act 1992 (Class 2 contributions)—

3.2.a

omit subsection (2),

3.2.b

in subsection (4), omit paragraph (a),

3.2.c

omit subsection (5),

3.2.d

in subsection (5A), omit the words from “but” to the end,

3.2.e

in subsection (5B), omit “under subsection (2)”, and

3.2.f

in subsection (8), for “subsections (2) and” substitute  “subsection” .

3.3

The amendments made by  this section  come into force on 6 April 2024.

### Transitional and consequential provision

4

The Schedule  contains transitional and consequential provision.

### Short title

5

This Act may be cited as the National Insurance Contributions (Reduction in
Rates) Act 2023.

  Transitional and consequential provision

Section 4

##### Rates for directors in the tax year 2023-24

1

1.1

This paragraph  applies to an assessment of the amount of earnings-related
contributions payable where that amount is assessed on the amount of earnings
paid in an earnings period specified in regulation 8(2) to (5) of the Social
Security (Contributions) Regulations 2001 (earnings periods for directors).

1.2

For the purposes of such an assessment the following apply, for the tax year
2023-24, with the modifications specified.

1.3

Part 1 of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 has effect
as if in section 8(2)(a) (main primary percentage), for the percentage
specified there were substituted  “11.5%” .

1.4

Part 1 of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland)
Act 1992 has effect as if in section 8(2)(a) (main primary percentage), for
the percentage specified there were substituted  “11.5%” .

1.5

Regulation 131 of the Social Security (Contributions) Regulations 2001 has
effect as if for the percentage specified there were substituted  “5.35%” .

1.6

In  this paragraph  “ earnings-related contributions ” has the meaning it has
in the Social Security (Contributions) Regulations 2001 (see regulation 1(2)).

##### Annual maximum contributions for the tax year 2023-24

2

2.1

The Social Security (Contributions) Regulations 2001 are amended as follows.

2.2

In regulation 21 (annual maxima for those with more than one employment)—

2.2.a

in paragraph (2), in Step Two, for “12 per cent” substitute  “11.5%” , and

2.2.b

in paragraph (3), for “12 per cent” substitute  “the rate specified as the
main primary percentage” .

2.3

In regulation 100 (annual maximum of Class 4 contributions), in paragraph (4),
for “12 per cent” substitute  “the rate specified as the main primary
percentage” .

2.4

The amendments made by  this paragraph  are treated as having come into force
on 6 April 2023.

##### Annual maximum contributions for subsequent tax years

3

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### Class 2 contributions

4

4.1

In the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992, omit section 11A
(application of certain provisions of the Income Tax Acts in relation to Class
2 contributions under section 11(2)).

4.2

In the Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992,
omit section 11A (application of certain provisions of the Income Tax Acts in
relation to Class 2 contributions under section 11(2)).

4.3

The Social Security Administration Act 1992 is amended as follows.

4.4

In section 141 (annual review of contributions), in subsection (4)—

4.4.a

in paragraph (a), for “11(2) and (6)” substitute  “11(6)” , and

4.4.b

in paragraph (b)—

4.4.b.i

for “figures” substitute  “figure” , and

4.4.b.ii

omit “the lower profits threshold and as”.

4.5

In section 143 (power to alter contributions with a view to adjusting level of
National Insurance Fund)—

4.5.a

in subsection (1)(c) for “11(2) and (6)” substitute  “11(6)” , and

4.5.b

in subsection (3)—

4.5.b.i

for “11(2) and (6)” substitute  “11(6)” , and

4.5.b.ii

for “lower profits threshold” substitute  “small profits threshold” .

4.6

In section 145 (power to alter primary and secondary contributions), in
subsection (4)(a), for “11(2) and (6)” substitute  “11(6)” .

4.7

The amendments made by  this paragraph  come into force on 6 April 2024.

##### Power to make further consequential provision

5

5.1

The Treasury may by regulations made by statutory instrument—

5.1.a

make such provision as they consider appropriate in consequence of this Act,
and

5.1.b

make such transitional or saving provision as they consider appropriate in
connection with the coming into force of any provision of this Act.

5.2

Regulations under  this paragraph  may (among other things)—

5.2.a

amend, repeal or revoke provision made by or under any enactment;

5.2.b

make provision having retrospective effect from no earlier than 6 April 2023.

5.3

Subsections (3) and (4) of section 175 of the Social Security Contributions
and Benefits Act 1992 (provision which may be made by regulations) apply to
regulations under  this paragraph  as they apply to regulations under that
Act.

5.4

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  this paragraph  is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

