Title: Neonatal Care (Leave and Pay) Act 2023
Date: 2024-05-20
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/20

## Neonatal Care (Leave and Pay) Act 2023

      B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Neonatal care leave and pay

1

In the Schedule—

1.a

Part 1 creates a statutory entitlement to neonatal care leave,

1.b

Part 2 creates a statutory entitlement to neonatal care pay, and

1.c

Part 3 contains related amendments.

### Power to make consequential provision

2

2.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision that is consequential
on this Act.

2.2

The regulations are to be made by statutory instrument.

2.3

A statutory instrument containing regulations under this section is subject to
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

### Extent, commencement and short title

3

3.1

An amendment or repeal made by the Schedule has the same extent as the
provision to which it relates.

3.2

Otherwise, this Act extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern
Ireland.

3.3

Section 1, section 2 and the Schedule come into force on such day as the
Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument appoint;
and different days may be appointed for different purposes.

3.4

This section comes into force on the day on which this Act is passed.

3.5

This Act may be cited as the Neonatal Care (Leave and Pay) Act 2023.

  Neonatal care leave and pay

Section 1

##### Neonatal care leave

1

The Employment Rights Act 1996 is amended as follows.

2

After section 80EE insert—

######### Neonatal care leave

########## Neonatal care leave

2.80EF

2.80EF.1

The Secretary of State must make regulations entitling an employee to be
absent from work on leave under this section if the employee satisfies
conditions specified in the regulations as to a parental or other personal
relationship with a child who is receiving, or has received, neonatal care.

2.80EF.2

The regulations must include provision for determining—

2.80EF.2.a

the extent of an employee’s entitlement to leave under this section in respect
of a child;

2.80EF.2.b

when leave under this section may be taken.

2.80EF.3

Provision under subsection  (2)(a)  must secure that where an employee is
entitled to leave under this section in respect of a child the employee is
entitled to at least a week’s leave.

2.80EF.4

Provision under subsection  (2)(b)  must secure that leave under this section
must be taken before the end of a period of at least 68 weeks beginning with
the date of the child’s birth.

2.80EF.5

An employee is entitled to leave under this section only if the neonatal care
continues without interruption for a period of at least seven days beginning
with the day after the day on which the care starts.

2.80EF.6

For the purposes of this Chapter, “ neonatal care ” means care—

2.80EF.6.a

of a medical or palliative kind specified in the regulations, and

2.80EF.6.b

that starts before the end of a period of 28 days beginning with the day after
the date of the child’s birth.

2.80EF.7

Regulations under subsection  (6)(a)  may specify a kind of care by reference
to the kind of place at which care is provided.

2.80EF.8

The regulations may make provision about how leave under this section is to be
taken.

2.80EF.9

In this section “ week ” means any period of seven days.

########## Rights during and after neonatal care leave

2.80EG

2.80EG.1

Regulations under section  80EF  must provide—

2.80EG.1.a

that an employee who is absent on leave under that section is entitled, for
such purposes and to such extent as the regulations may prescribe, to the
benefit of the terms and conditions of employment which would have applied but
for the absence,

2.80EG.1.b

that an employee who is absent on leave under that section is bound, for such
purposes and to such extent as the regulations may prescribe, by obligations
arising under those terms and conditions (except in so far as they are
inconsistent with subsection  (1)  of that section), and

2.80EG.1.c

that an employee who is absent on leave under that section is entitled to
return from leave to a job of a kind prescribed by regulations, subject to
section  80EH .

2.80EG.2

The reference in subsection  (1)(c)  to absence on leave under section  80EF
includes, where appropriate, a reference to a continuous period of absence
attributable partly to leave under that section and partly to any one or more
of the following—

2.80EG.2.a

maternity leave,

2.80EG.2.b

paternity leave,

2.80EG.2.c

adoption leave,

2.80EG.2.d

shared parental leave,

2.80EG.2.e

parental leave, and

2.80EG.2.f

parental bereavement leave.

2.80EG.3

In subsection  (1)(a) , “terms and conditions of employment”—

2.80EG.3.a

includes matters connected with an employee’s employment whether or not they
arise under the contract of employment, but

2.80EG.3.b

does not include terms and conditions about remuneration.

2.80EG.4

Regulations under section  80EF  may specify matters which are, or are not, to
be treated as remuneration for the purposes of this section.

2.80EG.5

Regulations under section  80EF  may make provision, in relation to the right
to return mentioned in subsection  (1)(c) , about—

2.80EG.5.a

seniority, pension rights and similar rights;

2.80EG.5.b

terms and conditions of employment on return.

########## Special cases

2.80EH

2.80EH.1

Regulations under section  80EF  may make provision about—

2.80EH.1.a

redundancy during or after a period of leave under that section, or

2.80EH.1.b

dismissal (other than by reason of redundancy) during a period of leave under
that section.

2.80EH.2

Provision by virtue of subsection  (1)  may include—

2.80EH.2.a

provision requiring an employer to offer alternative employment;

2.80EH.2.b

provision for the consequences of failure to comply with the regulations
(which may include provision for a dismissal to be treated as unfair for the
purposes of Part 10).

########## Chapter 5: supplemental

2.80EI

2.80EI.1

Regulations under section  80EF  may—

2.80EI.1.a

specify circumstances where neonatal care is to be regarded as continuous
despite an interruption;

2.80EI.1.b

make provision about notices to be given, evidence to be produced and other
procedures to be followed by employees and employers;

2.80EI.1.c

make provision requiring employers or employees to keep records;

2.80EI.1.d

make provision for the consequences of failure to give notices, to produce
evidence, to keep records or to comply with other procedural requirements;

2.80EI.1.e

make provision for the consequences of failure to act in accordance with a
notice given by virtue of paragraph  (b) ;

2.80EI.1.f

make special provision for cases where an employee has a right which
corresponds to a right under section  80EF  and which arises under the
person’s contract of employment or otherwise;

2.80EI.1.g

make provision modifying the effect of Chapter 2 of Part 14 (calculation of a
week’s pay) in relation to an employee who is or has been absent from work on
leave under section  80EF ;

2.80EI.1.h

make provision applying, modifying or excluding an enactment, in such
circumstances as may be specified and subject to any conditions which may be
specified, in relation to a person entitled to take leave under section  80EF
;

2.80EI.1.i

make different provision for different cases or circumstances;

2.80EI.1.j

make consequential provision.

2.80EI.2

The cases or circumstances mentioned in subsection  (1)(i)  include—

2.80EI.2.a

more than one child (with whom an employee has a parental or other personal
relationship) receiving neonatal care in specified circumstances;

2.80EI.2.b

a child receiving neonatal care on two or more separate occasions;

and regulations may, in particular, make special provision regarding the
applicability and extent of the entitlement to leave in such circumstances.

3

In section 236(3) (orders and regulations subject to affirmative procedure),
after “80EA,” insert  “80EF,” .

##### Neonatal care pay

4

The Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 is amended as follows.

5

After section 171ZZ15 insert—

######### Statutory neonatal care pay

########## Entitlement

5.171ZZ16

5.171ZZ16.1

A person who satisfies the conditions in subsection  (2)  and any condition
prescribed under subsection  (3)  is entitled in accordance with the following
provisions of this Part to payments to be known as “ statutory neonatal care
pay ”.

5.171ZZ16.2

The conditions are—

5.171ZZ16.2.a

that—

5.171ZZ16.2.a.i

the person satisfies prescribed conditions as to a parental or other personal
relationship with a child who is receiving, or has received, neonatal care,
and

5.171ZZ16.2.a.ii

that care continues without interruption for a period of at least seven days
beginning with the day after the day on which the care starts,

5.171ZZ16.2.b

that the person has been in employed earner’s employment with an employer for
a continuous period of at least 26 weeks ending with the relevant week,

5.171ZZ16.2.c

that at the end of the relevant week the person was entitled to be in that
employment (but see subsection  (7) ), and

5.171ZZ16.2.d

that the person’s normal weekly earnings for the period of 8 weeks ending with
the relevant week are not less than the lower earnings limit in force under
section 5(1)(a) at the end of the relevant week.

5.171ZZ16.3

Regulations may provide that a person is not entitled to pay in respect of a
particular week or period of consecutive weeks unless, at the beginning of
that week or period—

5.171ZZ16.3.a

the person is in employed earner’s employment with the employer by reference
to whom the condition in subsection  (2)(b)  is satisfied, and

5.171ZZ16.3.b

that employment has been continuous from the end of the relevant week.

5.171ZZ16.4

For the purposes of this Part, “ neonatal care ” means care—

5.171ZZ16.4.a

of a prescribed medical or palliative kind, and

5.171ZZ16.4.b

that starts before the end of a period of 28 days beginning with the day after
the date of the child’s birth.

5.171ZZ16.5

Regulations under subsection  (4)(a)  may prescribe a kind of care by
reference to the kind of place at which care is provided.

5.171ZZ16.6

In this section the “relevant week”—

5.171ZZ16.6.a

in any case where the person is entitled to statutory maternity pay under
section 164 in respect of the child, is the week immediately preceding the
14th week before the expected week of confinement (within the meaning of Part
12);

5.171ZZ16.6.b

in any case where the person is entitled to statutory paternity pay under
section 171ZA (birth) in respect of the child, is the same week as the
relevant week for the purposes of section 171ZA(2) in that case;

5.171ZZ16.6.c

in any case where the person is entitled to statutory paternity pay under
section 171ZB (adoption) in respect of the child, is the same week as the
relevant week for the purposes of section 171ZB(2) in that case;

5.171ZZ16.6.d

in any case where the person is entitled to statutory adoption pay under
section 171ZL in respect of the child, is the same week as the relevant week
for the purposes of section 171ZL(2) in that case;

5.171ZZ16.6.e

in any other case, is the week immediately before the one in which the
neonatal care starts.

5.171ZZ16.7

In relation to neonatal care that starts before the day on which section 63(3)
of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 comes fully into force, subsection (2) above is
to be read as if paragraph  (c)  were omitted.

########## Entitlement: supplementary

5.171ZZ17

5.171ZZ17.1

A person is entitled to payments of statutory neonatal care pay in respect of
any period only if the person gives notice to whoever is liable to make the
payments stating the week or weeks in respect of which they are to be made.

5.171ZZ17.2

Regulations may provide for the time by which notice under subsection  (1)
must be given.

5.171ZZ17.3

The notice must be in writing if the person who is liable to pay the statutory
neonatal care pay so requests.

5.171ZZ17.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

5.171ZZ17.4.a

make special provision regarding the applicability and extent of the
entitlement where a person satisfies the conditions in subsection  (2)  and
(if applicable) subsection  (3)  of section  171ZZ16  in respect of—

5.171ZZ17.4.a.i

more than one child in prescribed circumstances;

5.171ZZ17.4.a.ii

a child receiving neonatal care on two or more separate occasions;

5.171ZZ17.4.b

specify in what circumstances neonatal care is to be treated as continuous
despite an interruption for the purposes of section 171ZZ16;

5.171ZZ17.4.c

provide that subsection  (2)(b) ,  (2)(d)  or  (3)  of section 171ZZ16 has
effect subject to prescribed modifications in such cases as may be prescribed;

5.171ZZ17.4.d

provide for circumstances in which section 171ZZ16(2) (c)  does not have
effect;

5.171ZZ17.4.e

provide that subsection (1) of this section does not have effect, or has
effect subject to prescribed modifications, in such cases as may be
prescribed;

5.171ZZ17.4.f

impose requirements about evidence of entitlement;

5.171ZZ17.4.g

specify in what circumstances employment is to be treated as continuous for
the purposes of section 171ZZ16;

5.171ZZ17.4.h

provide that a person is to be treated for the purposes of section 171ZZ16 as
being employed for a continuous period of at least 26 weeks where—

5.171ZZ17.4.h.i

the person has been employed by the same employer for at least 26 weeks under
two or more separate con-tracts of service, and

5.171ZZ17.4.h.ii

those contracts were not continuous;

5.171ZZ17.4.i

provide for amounts earned by a person under separate contracts of service
with the same employer to be aggregated for the purposes of section 171ZZ16;

5.171ZZ17.4.j

provide that—

5.171ZZ17.4.j.i

the amount of a person’s earnings for any period, or

5.171ZZ17.4.j.ii

the amount of the person’s earnings to be treated as comprised in any payment
made to the person or for the person’s benefit,

is to be calculated or estimated for the purposes of section 171ZZ16 in such
manner and on such basis as may be prescribed and that for that purpose
payments of a particular class or description made or falling to be made to or
by a person shall, to such extent as may be prescribed, be disregarded or, as
the case may be, be deducted from the amount of the person’s earnings.

########## Liability to make payments

5.171ZZ18

5.171ZZ18.1

The liability to make payments of statutory neonatal care pay under section
171ZZ16 is a liability of any person of whom the person entitled to the
payments has been an employee as mentioned in subsections (2) (b)  and  (3)
of that section.

5.171ZZ18.2

The Secretary of State must by regulations make provision as to a former
employer’s liability to pay statutory neonatal care pay to a former employee
in any case where the employee’s contract of service with the employer has
been brought to an end by the employer solely, or mainly, for the purpose of
avoiding liability for statutory neonatal care pay.

5.171ZZ18.3

The Secretary of State may, with the concurrence of the Commissioners for His
Majesty’s Revenue and Customs, by regulations specify circumstances in which,
notwithstanding this section, liability to make payments of statutory neonatal
care pay is to be a liability of the Commissioners.

########## Rate and period of pay

5.171ZZ19

5.171ZZ19.1

Statutory neonatal care pay is payable at such fixed or earnings-related
weekly rate as may be prescribed by regulations, which may prescribe different
kinds of rate for different cases.

5.171ZZ19.2

Statutory neonatal care pay is payable in respect of—

5.171ZZ19.2.a

such week within the qualifying period, or

5.171ZZ19.2.b

such number of weeks, not exceeding the prescribed number of weeks, within the
qualifying period,

as the person entitled may choose in accordance with regulations.

5.171ZZ19.3

Provision under subsection  (2)(b)  must secure that the prescribed number of
weeks is not less than 12.

5.171ZZ19.4

Regulations under subsection  (2)(b)  may permit a person entitled to receive
statutory neonatal care pay to choose to receive such pay in respect of non-
consecutive periods each of which is a week or a number of weeks.

5.171ZZ19.5

For the purposes of subsection  (2) , the qualifying period is to be
determined in accordance with regulations, which must secure that it is a
period of at least 68 weeks beginning with the date of the child’s birth.

5.171ZZ19.6

A person is not liable to pay statutory neonatal care pay to another in
respect of any statutory pay week during any part of which the other works
under a contract of service with the person.

5.171ZZ19.7

It is immaterial for the purposes of subsection (6) whether the work referred
to in that subsection is work under a contract of service which existed
immediately before the statutory pay week or a contract of service which did
not so exist.

5.171ZZ19.8

Except in such cases as may be prescribed, statutory neonatal care pay is not
payable to a person in respect of a statutory pay week during any part of
which the person works for any employer who is not liable to pay the person
statutory neonatal care pay.

5.171ZZ19.9

The Secretary of State may by regulations specify circumstances in which there
is to be no liability to pay statutory neonatal care pay in respect of a
statutory pay week.

5.171ZZ19.10

Where for any purpose of this Part or of regulations it is necessary to
calculate the daily rate of statutory neonatal care pay, the amount payable by
way of statutory neonatal care pay for any day is to be taken as one seventh
of the weekly rate.

5.171ZZ19.11

In this section—

      “ statutory pay week ”, in relation to a person entitled to statutory
neonatal care pay, means a week chosen by the person as a week in respect of
which statutory neonatal care pay is to be payable;           “ week ” means
any period of seven days.

########## Restrictions on contracting out

5.171ZZ20

5.171ZZ20.1

An agreement is void to the extent that it purports—

5.171ZZ20.1.a

to exclude, limit or otherwise modify any provision of this Part, or

5.171ZZ20.1.b

to require a person to contribute (whether directly or indirectly) towards any
costs incurred by that person’s employer or former employer under this Part.

5.171ZZ20.2

An agreement between an employer and an employee, authorising any deductions
from statutory neonatal care pay which the employer is liable to pay to the
employee in respect of any period, is not void by virtue of subsection (1)(a)
if the employer—

5.171ZZ20.2.a

is authorised by that or another agreement to make the same deductions from
any contractual remuneration which the employer is liable to pay in respect of
the same period, or

5.171ZZ20.2.b

would be so authorised if the employer were liable to pay contractual
remuneration in respect of that period.

########## Relationship with contractual remuneration

5.171ZZ21

5.171ZZ21.1

Subject to subsections (2) and (3), any entitlement to statutory neonatal care
pay does not affect any right of a person in relation to remuneration under
any contract of service (“ contractual remuneration ”).

5.171ZZ21.2

Subject to subsection (3)—

5.171ZZ21.2.a

any contractual remuneration paid to a person by an employer of that person in
respect of any period is to go towards discharging any liability of that
employer to pay statutory neonatal care pay to that person in respect of that
period; and

5.171ZZ21.2.b

any statutory neonatal care pay paid by an employer to a person who is an
employee of that employer in respect of any period is to go towards
discharging any liability of that employer to pay contractual remuneration to
that person in respect of that period.

5.171ZZ21.3

Regulations may make provision as to payments which are, and those which are
not, to be treated as contractual remuneration for the purposes of subsections
(1) and (2).

########## Crown employment

5.171ZZ22

The provisions of this Part apply in relation to persons employed by or under
the Crown as they apply in relation to persons employed otherwise than by or
under the Crown.

########## Special classes of person

5.171ZZ23

5.171ZZ23.1

The Secretary of State may with the concurrence of the Treasury make
regulations modifying any provision of this Part in such manner as the
Secretary of State thinks proper in its application to any person who is, has
been or is to be—

5.171ZZ23.1.a

employed on board any ship, vessel, hovercraft or aircraft;

5.171ZZ23.1.b

outside Great Britain at any prescribed time or in any prescribed
circumstances; or

5.171ZZ23.1.c

in prescribed employment in connection with continental shelf operations, as
defined in section 120(2).

5.171ZZ23.2

Regulations under subsection (1) may, in particular, provide—

5.171ZZ23.2.a

for any provision of this Part to apply to any such person, notwithstanding
that it would not otherwise apply;

5.171ZZ23.2.b

for any such provision not to apply to any such person, notwithstanding that
it would otherwise apply;

5.171ZZ23.2.c

for excepting any such person from the application of any such provision where
the person neither is domiciled nor has a place of residence in any part of
Great Britain;

5.171ZZ23.2.d

for the taking of evidence, for the purposes of the determination of any
question arising under any such provision, in a country or territory outside
Great Britain, by a British consular official or such other person as may be
determined in accordance with the regulations.

########## Supplementary

5.171ZZ24

5.171ZZ24.1

In this Part—

      “ employer ”, in relation to a person who is an employee, means a person
who—         under section 6 is liable to pay secondary Class 1 contributions
in relation to any of the earnings of the person who is an employee, or
would be liable to pay such contributions but for—         the condition in
section 6(1)(b), or           the employee being under the age of 16;
“ modifications ” includes additions, omissions and amendments, and related
expressions are to be read accordingly;           “ prescribed ” means
prescribed by regulations.

5.171ZZ24.2

In this Part, “ employee ” means a person who is gainfully employed in Great
Britain either under a contract of service or in an office (including elective
office) with earnings (within the meaning of Parts 1 to 5).

5.171ZZ24.3

Regulations may provide—

5.171ZZ24.3.a

for cases where a person who falls within the definition in subsection (2) is
not to be treated as an employee for the purposes of this Part, and

5.171ZZ24.3.b

for cases where a person who would not otherwise be an employee for the
purposes of this Part is to be treated as an employee for those purposes.

5.171ZZ24.4

Without prejudice to any other power to make regulations under this Part,
regulations may specify cases in which, for the purposes of this Part or of
such provisions of this Part as may be prescribed—

5.171ZZ24.4.a

two or more employers are to be treated as one;

5.171ZZ24.4.b

two or more contracts of service in respect of which the same person is an
employee are to be treated as one.

5.171ZZ24.5

In this Part, except section 171ZZ19, “ week ” means a period of 7 days
beginning with Sunday or such other period as may be prescribed in relation to
any particular case or class of cases.

5.171ZZ24.6

For the purposes of this Part, a person’s normal weekly earnings are, subject
to subsection (8), to be taken to be the average weekly earnings which in the
relevant period have been paid to the person or paid for the person’s benefit
under the contract of service with the employer in question.

5.171ZZ24.7

For the purposes of subsection (6), “earnings” and “relevant period” have the
meanings given to them by regulations.

5.171ZZ24.8

In such cases as may be prescribed, a person’s normal weekly earnings are to
be calculated in accordance with regulations.

5.171ZZ24.9

Where in consequence of the establishment of one or more National Health
Service trusts under the National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006, a person’s
contract of employment is treated by a scheme under that Act as divided so as
to constitute two or more contracts, regulations may make provision enabling
the person to elect for all of those contracts to be treated as one contract
for the purposes of this Part or such provisions of this Part as may be
prescribed.

5.171ZZ24.10

Regulations under subsection (9) may prescribe—

5.171ZZ24.10.a

the conditions that must be satisfied if a person is to be entitled to make
such an election;

5.171ZZ24.10.b

the manner in which, and the time within which, such an election is to be
made;

5.171ZZ24.10.c

the persons to whom, and the manner in which, notice of such an election is to
be given;

5.171ZZ24.10.d

the information which a person who makes such an election is to provide, and
the persons to whom, and the time within which, the person is to provide it;

5.171ZZ24.10.e

the time for which such an election is to have effect;

5.171ZZ24.10.f

which one of the person’s employers under two or more contracts is to be
regarded for the purposes of statutory neonatal care pay as the person’s
employer under the contract.

5.171ZZ24.11

The powers under subsections (9) and (10) are without prejudice to any other
power to make regulations under this Part.

5.171ZZ24.12

Regulations under any of subsections (4) to (10) must be made with the
concurrence of the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs.

6

In section 176(1) (instruments subject to affirmative procedure), in paragraph
(a), at the appropriate place insert—

      any of sections 171ZZ16 to 171ZZ19;

.

##### Further amendments to do with neonatal care leave and pay

###### Social Security Act 1989

7

In Schedule 5 to the Social Security Act 1989 (employment-related schemes for
pensions or other benefits to comply with the principle of equal treatment),
after paragraph 5D insert—

########## Unfair neonatal care leave provisions

7.5E

7.5E.1

Where an employment-related benefit scheme includes any unfair neonatal care
leave provisions (irrespective of any differences on the basis of sex in the
treatment accorded to members under those provisions), then—

7.5E.1.a

the scheme is to be regarded to that extent as not complying with the
principle of equal treatment; and

7.5E.1.b

subject to sub-paragraph (3), this Schedule is to apply accordingly.

7.5E.2

In this paragraph “ unfair neonatal care leave provisions ”, in relation to an
employment-related benefit scheme, means any provision—

7.5E.2.a

which relates to continuing membership of, or the accrual of rights under, the
scheme during any period of paid neonatal care leave in the case of any member
who is (or who, immediately before the commencement of such a period, was) an
employed earner and which treats such a member otherwise than in accordance
with the normal employment requirement; or

7.5E.2.b

which requires the amount of any benefit payable under the scheme to or in
respect of any such member, to the extent that it falls to be determined by
reference to earnings during a period which included a period of paid neonatal
care leave, to be determined otherwise than in accordance with the normal
employment requirement.

7.5E.3

In the case of any unfair neonatal care leave provision—

7.5E.3.a

the more favourable treatment required by paragraph 3(1) is treatment no less
favourable than would be accorded to the member in accordance with the normal
employment requirement; and

7.5E.3.b

paragraph 3(2) does not authorise the making of any such election as is there
mentioned;

but, in respect of any period of paid neonatal care leave, a member is only
required to pay contributions on the amount of contractual remuneration or
statutory neonatal care pay actually paid to or for the member in respect of
that period.

7.5E.4

In this paragraph—

      “the normal employment requirement” is the requirement that any period
of paid neonatal care leave is to be treated as if it were a period throughout
which the member in question works normally and receives the remuneration
likely to be paid for doing so;           “period of paid neonatal care
leave”, in the case of a member, means any period—         throughout which a
member who (for the purposes of section 171ZZ16 of the Social Security
Contributions and Benefits Act 1992) has a parental or other personal
relationship with a child who is receiving, or has received, neonatal care is
absent from work for that reason, otherwise than by virtue of a period of
leave mentioned in sub-paragraph (5); and           for which the employer (or
if the member is no longer in that person’s employment, his former employer)
pays the member any contractual remuneration or statutory neonatal care pay.

7.5E.5

The periods of leave referred to in paragraph (a) of the definition of “period
of paid neonatal care leave” are—

7.5E.5.a

a period of paid paternity leave (within the meaning of paragraph 5A),

7.5E.5.b

a period of maternity leave (within the meaning of the Equality Act 2010),

7.5E.5.c

a period of paid adoption leave (within the meaning of paragraph 5B),

7.5E.5.d

a period of shared parental leave (within the meaning of paragraph 5C), or

7.5E.5.e

a period of parental bereavement leave (within the meaning of paragraph 5D).

###### Finance Act 1989

8

8.1

Section 182 of the Finance Act 1989 (offences relating to disclosure of
information relating to social security functions etc) is amended as follows.

8.2

In subsections (1)(c), (2A)(a), (4)(c)(iii) and (5)(b), for “or statutory
parental bereavement pay” substitute  “, statutory parental bereavement pay or
statutory neonatal care pay” .

8.3

In subsection (11A)—

8.3.a

for “or statutory parental bereavement pay” substitute  “, statutory parental
bereavement pay or statutory neonatal care pay” ;

8.3.b

for “or Part 12ZD” substitute  “, Part 12ZD or Part 12ZE” .

###### Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992

9

The Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 is amended as follows.

10

In section 1 (outline of contributory system), in subsection (5), for “and
statutory parental bereavement pay” substitute  “, statutory parental
bereavement pay and statutory neonatal care pay” .

11

In section 4 (payments treated as remuneration and earnings), in subsection
(1)(a)—

11.a

omit “or” at the end of sub-paragraph (vi);

11.b

at the end of sub-paragraph (vii) (but before the “and”) insert

or

11.b.viii

statutory neonatal care pay;

.

12

In section 4AA (limited liability partnerships), in subsection (2), for “or
171ZZ14” substitute  “, 171ZZ14 or 171ZZ24” .

13

In section 4C (power to make provision in consequence of provision made by or
by virtue of section 4B etc), in subsection (11), in paragraph (a) of the
definition of “statutory payment”, for “or statutory parental bereavement pay”
substitute  “, statutory parental bereavement pay or statutory neonatal care
pay” .

###### Social Security Administration Act 1992

14

The Social Security Administration Act 1992 is amended as follows.

15

In section 5 (regulations about claims for and payments of benefits), in
subsection (5), for “and statutory parental bereavement pay” substitute  “,
statutory parental bereavement pay and statutory neonatal care pay” .

16

In section 122AA (disclosure of contributions information etc by HMRC), in
subsection (1), for “or statutory parental bereavement pay” substitute  “,
statutory parental bereavement pay or statutory neonatal care pay” .

17

In section 150 (annual up-rating of benefits), in subsection (1)(j), for “or
171ZZ9(1)” substitute  “, 171ZZ9(1) or 171ZZ19(1)” .

18

In section 163 (general financial arrangements), in subsection (1)(d), for “or
statutory parental bereavement pay” substitute  “, statutory parental
bereavement pay or statutory neonatal care pay” .

19

19.1

Section 165 (adjustments between the National Insurance Fund and the
Consolidated Fund) is amended as follows.

19.2

In subsection (1)(b)—

19.2.a

omit “and” at the end of sub-paragraph (vi);

19.2.b

at the end of sub-paragraph (vii) insert

, and

19.2.b.viii

statutory neonatal care pay.

19.3

In subsection (5B)(a), for “or statutory parental bereavement pay” substitute
“, statutory parental bereavement pay or statutory neonatal care pay” .

###### Employment Rights Act 1996

20

The Employment Rights Act 1996 is amended as follows.

21

In section 27 (meaning of “ wages ”), in subsection (1), after paragraph (cd)
insert—

21.ce

statutory neonatal care pay under Part 12ZE of that Act,

.

22

In section 47C (leave for family and domestic reasons), in subsection (2),
after paragraph (cb) (but before the “or”), insert—

22.cc

neonatal care leave,

.

23

In section 75I (rights during and after shared parental leave), in subsection
(3)—

23.a

at the end of paragraph (e) omit “and”;

23.b

at the end of paragraph (f) insert

, and

23.b.g

neonatal care leave.

24

24.1

Section 80C (rights during and after paternity leave) is amended as follows.

24.2

In subsection (2), after paragraph (bb) (but before the “and”) insert—

24.2.bc

neonatal care leave,

.

24.3

In subsection (4), after paragraph (bb) insert—

24.3.bc

neonatal care leave,

.

25

In section 80EB (rights during and after bereavement leave), in subsection
(2)—

25.a

at the end of paragraph (d) omit “and”;

25.b

at the end of paragraph (e) insert

, and

25.b.f

neonatal care leave.

26

26.1

Section 88 (liability of employer to pay employee during period of notice:
employments with normal working hours) is amended as follows.

26.2

In subsection (1)(c), after “parental bereavement leave,” insert  “neonatal
care leave,” .

26.3

In subsection (2), after “statutory parental bereavement pay,” insert
“neonatal care pay, statutory neonatal care pay,” .

27

27.1

Section 89 (effect of notice of termination: employments without normal
working hours) is amended as follows.

27.2

In subsection (3)(b), after “parental bereavement leave,” insert  “neonatal
care leave,” .

27.3

In subsection (4), after “statutory parental bereavement pay,” insert
“neonatal care pay, statutory neonatal care pay,” .

28

In section 99 (leave for family reasons), in subsection (3), after paragraph
(cb) (but before the “or”), insert—

28.cc

neonatal care leave,

.

29

In section 235 (definitions), in subsection (1)—

29.a

at the appropriate place insert—

      “ neonatal care leave ” means leave under section 80EF,

;

29.b

in the definition of “week”, in paragraph (b), after “80EA” insert  “, 80EF” .

###### Social Security Contributions (Transfer of Functions, etc.) Act 1999

30

The Social Security Contributions (Transfer of Functions, etc.) Act 1999 is
amended as follows.

31

31.1

Section 8 (decisions by officers of Revenue and Customs) is amended as
follows.

31.2

In subsection (1)—

31.2.a

in paragraph (f), for “or statutory parental bereavement pay” substitute  “,
statutory parental bereavement pay or statutory neonatal care pay” ;

31.2.b

in paragraph (g), for “12ZD” substitute  “12ZE” ;

31.2.c

in paragraph (g), for “and statutory parental bereavement pay” substitute  “,
statutory parental bereavement pay and statutory neonatal care pay” ;

31.2.d

in paragraph (ga), for “or statutory parental bereavement pay” substitute  “,
statutory parental bereavement pay or statutory neonatal care pay” .

31.3

In subsection (3)(b), for “or statutory parental bereavement pay” substitute
“, statutory parental bereavement pay or statutory neonatal care pay” .

32

In section 11 (appeals against decisions of officers of Revenue and Customs),
in subsection (2)(a), for “or statutory parental bereavement pay” substitute
“, statutory parental bereavement pay or statutory neonatal care pay” .

33

In section 14 (matters arising as respects decisions), in subsections
(1)(a)(i) and (3), for “or statutory parental bereavement pay” substitute  “,
statutory parental bereavement pay or statutory neonatal care pay” .

###### Finance Act 1999

34

34.1

Sections 132 and 133 of the Finance Act 1999 have effect as if statutory
neonatal care pay were a matter which is under the care and management of the
Commissioners for Revenue and Customs.

34.2

In this paragraph “ statutory neonatal care pay ” includes statutory pay under
Northern Ireland legislation corresponding to the provisions of Part 12ZE of
the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992.

###### Employment Act 2002

35

The Employment Act 2002 is amended as follows.

36

36.1

Section 7 (funding of employers’ liabilities as regards certain statutory pay)
is amended as follows.

36.2

In subsection (1), for “and statutory parental bereavement pay” substitute  “,
statutory parental bereavement pay and statutory neonatal care pay” .

36.3

In subsection (2)(a) and (b), for “or statutory parental bereavement pay”
substitute  “, statutory parental bereavement pay or statutory neonatal care
pay” .

36.4

In subsection (3)—

36.4.a

for “or statutory parental bereavement pay” substitute  “, statutory parental
bereavement pay or statutory neonatal care pay” ;

36.4.b

omit “or” at the end of paragraph (c);

36.4.c

at the end of paragraph (d) insert

, or

36.4.c.e

the period for which the payment of statutory neonatal care pay is made,

.

37

In section 8 (regulations about payment), in subsections (1) and (2)(a), (b)
and (d), for “and statutory parental bereavement pay” substitute  “, statutory
parental bereavement pay and statutory neonatal care pay” .

38

In section 10 (powers to require information), in subsections (1) and (2)(a),
for “or statutory parental bereavement pay” substitute  “, statutory parental
bereavement pay or statutory neonatal care pay” .

39

In section 11 (penalties for failure to comply), in subsection (6), for “or
statutory parental bereavement pay” substitute  “, statutory parental
bereavement pay or statutory neonatal care pay” .

40

In section 12 (penalties for fraud or negligence), in subsections (2)(a),
(2)(b) and (4), for “or statutory shared parental pay” substitute  “,
statutory shared parental pay or statutory neonatal care pay” .

41

In section 13 (supply of information held by His Majesty’s Revenue and
Customs), in subsection (1), for “or statutory parental bereavement pay”
substitute  “, statutory parental bereavement pay or statutory neonatal care
pay” .

42

In section 14 (supply of information held by the Secretary of State), in
subsections (1) and (2), for “or statutory parental bereavement pay”
substitute  “, statutory parental bereavement pay or statutory neonatal care
pay” .

43

In section 15 (use of information by His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs), in
subsection (2)—

43.a

omit “and” at the end of paragraph (bb);

43.b

after paragraph (bb) insert—

43.b.bc

their functions in relation to statutory neonatal care pay; and

.

44

In section 55 (short title etc), in subsection (8)—

44.a

for “or statutory parental bereavement pay” substitute  “, statutory parental
bereavement pay or statutory neonatal care pay” ;

44.b

for “or Part 12ZD” substitute  “, Part 12ZD or Part 12ZE” .

###### Proceeds of Crime Act 2002

45

45.1

Section 323 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (Revenue functions) is amended
as follows.

45.2

In subsection (1), after paragraph (hb) insert—

45.2.hc

statutory neonatal care pay;

.

45.3

In subsection (4), after paragraph (eb) insert—

45.3.ec

“statutory neonatal care pay” must be construed in accordance with section
171ZZ16 of that Act;

.

45.4

In subsection (5), after paragraph (eb) insert—

45.4.ec

“statutory neonatal care pay” must be construed in accordance with any
Northern Ireland legislation which corresponds to Part 12ZE of that Act;

.

###### Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003

46

The Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 is amended as follows.

47

47.1

Section 660 (taxable benefits: UK benefits - Table A) is amended as follows.

47.2

In subsection (1), in Table A, after the entry relating to statutory parental
bereavement pay insert—

          Statutory neonatal care pay SSCBA 1992 Section 171ZZ16 Any provision
made for Northern Ireland which corresponds to section 171ZZ16 of SSCBA 1992

.

47.3

In subsection (2), after the entry relating to statutory parental bereavement
pay insert— “statutory neonatal care pay;”.

48

48.1

Schedule 5 (enterprise management incentives) is amended as follows.

48.2

In paragraph 12A(4)(b)(i), for “or parental bereavement” substitute  “,
parental bereavement or neonatal care” .

48.3

In paragraph 26(3)(b), after “parental bereavement leave” insert  “, neonatal
care leave” .

###### Commissioners for Revenue and Customs Act 2005

49

In Schedule 1 to the Commissioners for Revenue and Customs Act 2005 (former
Inland Revenue matters where functions vest in officers of Revenue and
Customs), after paragraph 26C insert—

49.26D

Statutory neonatal care pay.

###### Income Tax Act 2007

50

The Income Tax Act 2007 is amended as follows.

51

In section 186A (enterprise investment schemes: the number of employees
requirement for an issuing company), in subsection (4)(b)(i), for “or parental
bereavement” substitute  “, parental bereavement or neonatal care” .

52

In section 257DJ (seed enterprise investment schemes: the number of employees
requirement for an issuing company), in subsection (4)(b)(i), for “or parental
bereavement” substitute  “, parental bereavement or neonatal care” .

53

In section 257MH (tax relief for social investments: the number of employees
requirement), in subsection (4)(b)(i), for “or parental bereavement”
substitute  “, parental bereavement or neonatal care” .

54

In section 297A (venture capital trusts: the number of employees requirement
for a qualifying holding), in subsection (4)(b)(i), for “or parental
bereavement” substitute  “, parental bereavement or neonatal care” .

###### Welfare Reform Act 2007

55

55.1

Section 20 of the Welfare Reform Act 2007 (relationship with statutory
payments) is amended as follows.

55.2

After subsection (7) insert—

55.2.7A

Except as regulations may provide, a person who is entitled to statutory
neonatal care pay is not entitled to an employment and support allowance in
respect of a day that falls within a period in respect of which statutory
neonatal care pay is payable.

55.2.7B

Regulations may provide that—

55.2.7B.a

an amount equal to a person’s statutory neonatal care pay for a period shall
be deducted from an employment and support allowance in respect of the same
period,

55.2.7B.b

a person shall only be entitled to an employment and support allowance if
there is a balance after the deduction, and

55.2.7B.c

if there is such a balance, a person shall be entitled to an employment and
support allowance at a weekly rate equal to it.

55.3

The references to an employment and support allowance in new subsections (7A)
and (7B), and in sub-paragraph (4) of this paragraph, are references to an
employment and support allowance payable under Part 1 of the Welfare Reform
Act 2007 as amended by the Welfare Reform Act 2012.

55.4

For as long as a contributory allowance continues to be payable, new
subsections (7A) and (7B) are to apply to a contributory allowance as they
apply to an employment and support allowance.

55.5

In this paragraph—

55.5.a

“ new subsections (7A) and (7B) ” means subsections (7A) and (7B) inserted by
this paragraph into section 20 of the Welfare Reform Act 2007;

55.5.b

“ contributory allowance ” has the meaning given by section 1(7) of the
Welfare Reform Act 2007 before its repeal by the Welfare Reform Act 2012.

55.6

In subsection (8), in the definition of “the adoption pay period”, for “that
Act” substitute  “the Contributions and Benefits Act” .

###### Pensions Act 2008

56

In section 13 of the Pensions Act 2008 (qualifying earnings), in subsection
(3), after paragraph (eb) insert—

56.ec

statutory neonatal care pay under Part 12ZE of that Act;

.

###### Corporation Tax Act 2009

57

In section 1058B of the Corporation Tax Act 2009 (PAYE and NIC liabilities),
in subsection (5), after paragraph (e) insert—

57.ea

statutory neonatal care pay;

.

###### Finance Act 2013

58

In Schedule 45 to the Finance Act 2013 (statutory residence test), in
paragraph 145, in the definition of “parenting leave”, for “or parental
bereavement leave” substitute  “, parental bereavement leave or neonatal care
leave” .

