Title: Non-Domestic Rating Act 2023
Date: 2024-02-05
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/53

## Non-Domestic Rating Act 2023

      B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Liability and mandatory reliefs

#### Local rating: liability and mandatory reliefs for occupied hereditaments

1

1.1

In the Local Government Finance Act 1988 (referred to in this Act as “ the Act
”), in section 43 (occupied hereditaments: liability)—

1.1.a

in the heading, after “liability” insert  “and reliefs” ;

1.1.b

in subsection (2), in paragraph (a), after “chargeable day” insert  “in
accordance with  Schedule 4ZA ” ;

1.1.c

omit subsections (4) to (6L);

1.1.d

omit subsections (8A) to (8D).

1.2

Omit section 44 of the Act (occupied hereditaments: supplementary).

1.3

Before Schedule 4A to the Act insert—

  Occupied hereditaments: chargeable amount

Section 43

############ Chargeable amount before any reliefs

1.3.1

Subject to the following provisions of this Schedule, the chargeable amount
for a chargeable day is to be calculated—

1.3.1.a

in relation to England, in accordance with the formula—

A × M C

1.3.1.b

in relation to Wales, in accordance with the formula—

A × B C

############ Partial reliefs

############# Charitable rate relief

1.3.2

1.3.2.1

Where this paragraph applies, the chargeable amount for a chargeable day is to
be calculated—

1.3.2.1.a

in relation to England, in accordance with the formula—

A × M C × 5

1.3.2.1.b

in relation to Wales, in accordance with the formula—

A × B C × 5

1.3.2.2

This paragraph applies where, on the day concerned—

1.3.2.2.a

the ratepayer is a charity or trustees for a charity and the hereditament is
wholly or mainly used for charitable purposes (whether of that charity or of
that and other charities), or

1.3.2.2.b

the ratepayer is a registered club for the purposes of Chapter 9 of Part 13 of
the Corporation Tax Act 2010 (community amateur sports clubs) and the
hereditament is wholly or mainly used—

1.3.2.2.b.i

for the purposes of that club, or

1.3.2.2.b.ii

for the purposes of that club and of other such registered clubs.

############# Improvement rate relief

1.3.3

1.3.3.1

This paragraph applies where—

1.3.3.1.a

the chargeable day falls within the period of one year beginning with the day
on which qualifying improvement works are completed,

1.3.3.1.b

on the day concerned any conditions prescribed by the appropriate national
authority in regulations are satisfied, and

1.3.3.1.c

the day concerned falls before 1 April 2029.

1.3.3.2

“ Qualifying improvement works ” has the meaning given by the appropriate
national authority in regulations.

1.3.3.3

The appropriate national authority may by regulations—

1.3.3.3.a

amend  paragraph (a)  of  sub-paragraph (1)  to substitute a longer period for
the period for the time being specified in that paragraph;

1.3.3.3.b

amend  paragraph (c)  of that sub-paragraph to substitute a later date for the
date for the time being specified in that paragraph.

1.3.3.4

For the consequence of this paragraph applying, see the definitions of “A” and
“G” in  paragraph 10 .

############# Small business rate relief

1.3.4

1.3.4.1

Where this paragraph applies, the chargeable amount for a chargeable day is to
be calculated—

1.3.4.1.a

in relation to England, in accordance with the formula—

A × M C × E

1.3.4.1.b

in relation to Wales, in accordance with the formula—

A × B C × E

1.3.4.2

This paragraph applies—

1.3.4.2.a

in relation to England, where on the day concerned any conditions prescribed
by the Secretary of State in regulations are satisfied;

1.3.4.2.b

in relation to Wales, where—

1.3.4.2.b.i

the rateable value of the hereditament shown in the local non-domestic rating
list for the first day of the chargeable financial year is not more than any
amount prescribed by the Welsh Ministers in regulations, and

1.3.4.2.b.ii

on the day concerned any conditions prescribed by the Welsh Ministers in
regulations are satisfied.

1.3.4.3

If a ratepayer makes an application in order to satisfy a condition prescribed
under  sub-paragraph (2) (a)  and the ratepayer—

1.3.4.3.a

makes a statement in the application which the ratepayer knows to be false in
a material particular, or

1.3.4.3.b

recklessly makes a statement in the application which is false in a material
particular,

the ratepayer is liable on summary conviction to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 3 months or to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale or
to both.

############ Full reliefs

############# Introduction

1.3.5

Where any paragraph of this Part of this Schedule applies in relation to a
hereditament on a chargeable day, the chargeable amount for the day concerned
is zero.

############# Heat networks rate relief

1.3.6

1.3.6.1

This paragraph applies where—

1.3.6.1.a

on the day concerned the hereditament is wholly or mainly used for the
purposes of a heat network,

1.3.6.1.b

on the day concerned any conditions prescribed by the appropriate national
authority in regulations are satisfied, and

1.3.6.1.c

the day concerned falls before 1 April 2035.

1.3.6.2

“ Heat network ” has the meaning given in regulations by the appropriate
national authority.

1.3.6.3

The appropriate national authority may by regulations amend  paragraph (c)  of
sub-paragraph (1)  to substitute a later date for the date for the time being
specified in that paragraph.

############# Public lavatories rate relief

1.3.7

This paragraph applies where, on the day concerned, the hereditament consists
wholly or mainly of public lavatories.

############# Rural rate relief

1.3.8

1.3.8.1

This paragraph applies where—

1.3.8.1.a

the hereditament is situated in England,

1.3.8.1.b

on the day concerned the hereditament is within a settlement identified in the
billing authority’s rural settlement list for the chargeable financial year,

1.3.8.1.c

at the beginning of that year, A, in relation to the hereditament, is not more
than any amount prescribed by the Secretary of State in regulations, and

1.3.8.1.d

on the day concerned—

1.3.8.1.d.i

the whole or part of the hereditament is used as a qualifying post office, a
qualifying general store or a qualifying food store, or

1.3.8.1.d.ii

any conditions prescribed by the Secretary of State in regulations are
satisfied.

1.3.8.2

Sub-paragraphs (3)  to  (7)  apply for the purposes of  sub-paragraph (1) .

1.3.8.3

A hereditament, or part of a hereditament, is used as a qualifying post office
on any day in a chargeable financial year if—

1.3.8.3.a

it is used for the purposes of a universal service provider (within the
meaning of Part 3 of the Postal Services Act 2011) and in connection with the
provision of a universal postal service (within the meaning of that Part), and

1.3.8.3.b

no other hereditament, or part of a hereditament, in the settlement concerned
is so used.

1.3.8.4

A hereditament, or part of a hereditament, is used as a qualifying general
store on any day in a chargeable financial year if—

1.3.8.4.a

a trade or business consisting wholly or mainly of the sale by retail of both
food for human consumption (excluding confectionery) and general household
goods is carried on there, and

1.3.8.4.b

such a trade or business is not carried on in any other hereditament, or part
of a hereditament, in the settlement concerned.

1.3.8.5

A hereditament, or part of a hereditament, is used as a qualifying food store
on any day in a chargeable financial year if a trade or business consisting
wholly or mainly of the sale by retail of food for human consumption
(excluding confectionery and excluding the supply of food in the course of
catering) is carried on there.

1.3.8.6

The supply of food in the course of catering includes—

1.3.8.6.a

any supply of food for consumption on the premises on which it is supplied, or

1.3.8.6.b

any supply of hot food for consumption off those premises.

1.3.8.7

“ Hot food ” means food which, or any part of which—

1.3.8.7.a

has been heated for the purposes of enabling it to be consumed at a
temperature above the ambient air temperature, and

1.3.8.7.b

is at the time of supply above that temperature.

1.3.8.8

Where a hereditament or part of a hereditament is used as a qualifying post
office or qualifying general store on any day in a chargeable financial year,
it is not to be treated as ceasing to be so used on any subsequent day in that
year merely because the condition in  sub-paragraph (3) (b)  or  (4) (b)
ceases to be satisfied.

############ Cases where more than one relief applies

1.3.9

In relation to any hereditament in respect of which the paragraphs of this
Schedule mentioned in the first column of the following table apply on the day
concerned, the chargeable amount is to be calculated in accordance with the
corresponding paragraph in the second column of the table—

    Paragraphs having effect in relation to hereditament Paragraph to be used
for calculating chargeable amount   Paragraphs  2  and  4 Paragraph  2
Paragraph  6  and any of  2  or  4 Paragraph  6 Paragraph  7  and any of  2
or  4 Paragraph  7 Paragraph  8  and any of  2  or  4 Paragraph  8

############ Interpretation

1.3.10

1.3.10.1

This paragraph applies for the purposes of this Schedule.

1.3.10.2

“A” is—

1.3.10.2.a

where the day concerned is a day on which  paragraph 3  applies, the rateable
value shown for the day under section 42(4) as regards the hereditament minus
G;

1.3.10.2.b

in any other case, the rateable value shown for the day under section 42(4) as
regards the hereditament.

1.3.10.3

“B” is—

1.3.10.3.a

in a case where the billing authority is a special authority, the authority’s
non-domestic rating multiplier for the financial year;

1.3.10.3.b

in any other case, the non-domestic rating multiplier for the financial year.

1.3.10.4

“C” is the number of days in the financial year.

1.3.10.5

“D” is—

1.3.10.5.a

in a case where the billing authority is a special authority, the authority’s
small business non-domestic rating multiplier for the financial year;

1.3.10.5.b

in any other case, the small business non-domestic rating multiplier for the
financial year.

1.3.10.6

“ E ”, in relation to small business rate relief, is an amount prescribed, or
calculated in accordance with provision prescribed, by the appropriate
national authority in regulations.

1.3.10.7

“ G ”, in relation to improvement rate relief, is an amount prescribed, or
calculated in accordance with provision prescribed, by the appropriate
national authority in regulations.

1.3.10.8

Regulations under  sub-paragraph (7)  may (among other things) impose duties
or confer powers on the valuation officer for a billing authority (whether as
regards determinations, certificates or otherwise) in relation to the
ascertainment of rateable values or of G.

1.3.10.9

“M” is—

1.3.10.9.a

whichever of B or D is prescribed for the purposes of the provision in
question by the Treasury in regulations, or

1.3.10.9.b

for the purposes of a provision where there is no such prescription—

1.3.10.9.b.i

if that provision is  paragraph 4 (1) (a) , D, or

1.3.10.9.b.ii

for any other provision, B.

1.3.10.10

Regulations under  sub-paragraph (9)  may prescribe different multipliers for
a given provision by reference to (among other things)—

1.3.10.10.a

the value of A (on the first day of a chargeable financial year or for a
chargeable day) in relation to hereditaments;

1.3.10.10.b

the location of hereditaments;

1.3.10.10.c

the local non-domestic rating list in which hereditaments are shown;

1.3.10.10.d

the use of hereditaments;

1.3.10.10.e

the physical characteristics of hereditaments;

1.3.10.10.f

ratepayers in respect of hereditaments falling within prescribed descriptions.

1.3.10.11

Sub-paragraph (10)  does not restrict what may otherwise be done under section
143(1).

1.3.11

For the purposes of this Schedule, “the appropriate national authority” is—

1.3.11.a

in relation to England, the Secretary of State;

1.3.11.b

in relation to Wales, the Welsh Ministers.

#### Local rating: liability and mandatory reliefs for unoccupied hereditaments

2

2.1

In section 45 of the Act (unoccupied hereditaments: liability)—

2.1.a

in the heading, after “liability” insert  “and reliefs” ;

2.1.b

in subsection (2), in paragraph (a), after “chargeable day” insert  “in
accordance with  Schedule 4ZB ” ;

2.1.c

omit subsections (4) to (4G).

2.2

Omit section 45A of the Act (unoccupied hereditaments: zero-rating).

2.3

Omit section 46 of the Act (unoccupied hereditaments: supplementary).

2.4

After Schedule 4ZA to the Act (inserted by  section 1 (3)  of this Act)
insert—

  Unoccupied hereditaments: chargeable amount

Section 45

############ Chargeable amount before any reliefs

2.4.1

2.4.1.1

Subject to the following provisions of this Schedule, the chargeable amount
for a chargeable day is to be calculated—

2.4.1.1.a

in relation to England, in accordance with the formula—

A × M C

2.4.1.1.b

in relation to Wales, in accordance with the formula—

A × B C

2.4.1.2

But—

2.4.1.2.a

the Secretary of State may by regulations provide that  sub-paragraph (1) (a)
has effect as if the following formula were substituted—

A × M C × N

2.4.1.2.b

the Welsh Ministers may by regulations provide that  sub-paragraph (1) (b)
has effect as if the following formula were substituted—

A × B C × N

############ Full relief

############# Charitable rate relief

2.4.2

2.4.2.1

Where this paragraph applies, the chargeable amount for a chargeable day is
zero.

2.4.2.2

This paragraph applies where, on the day concerned—

2.4.2.2.a

the ratepayer is a charity or trustees for a charity and it appears that when
next in use the hereditament will be wholly or mainly used for charitable
purposes (whether of that charity or of that and other charities), or

2.4.2.2.b

the ratepayer is a registered club for the purposes of Chapter 9 of Part 13 of
the Corporation Tax Act 2010 (community amateur sports clubs) and it appears
that when next in use—

2.4.2.2.b.i

the hereditament will be wholly or mainly used for the purposes of that club
and that club will be such a registered club, or

2.4.2.2.b.ii

the hereditament will be wholly or mainly used for the purposes of two or more
clubs including that club, and each of those clubs will be such a registered
club.

############ Interpretation

2.4.3

2.4.3.1

This paragraph applies for the purposes of this Schedule.

2.4.3.2

“A” is the rateable value shown for the day under section 42(4) as regards the
hereditament.

2.4.3.3

“B” is—

2.4.3.3.a

in a case where the billing authority is a special authority, the authority’s
non-domestic rating multiplier for the financial year;

2.4.3.3.b

in any other case, the non-domestic rating multiplier for the financial year.

2.4.3.4

“C” is the number of days in the financial year.

2.4.3.5

“D” is—

2.4.3.5.a

in a case where the billing authority is a special authority, the authority’s
small business non-domestic rating multiplier for the financial year;

2.4.3.5.b

in any other case, the small business non-domestic rating multiplier for the
financial year.

2.4.3.6

“M” is—

2.4.3.6.a

whichever of B or D is prescribed for the purposes of the provision in
question by the Treasury in regulations, or

2.4.3.6.b

for the purposes of a provision where there is no such prescription, B.

2.4.3.7

Regulations under  sub-paragraph (6)  may prescribe different multipliers for
a given provision by reference to (among other things)—

2.4.3.7.a

the value of A (on the first day of a chargeable financial year or for a
chargeable day) in relation to hereditaments;

2.4.3.7.b

the location of hereditaments;

2.4.3.7.c

the local non-domestic rating list in which hereditaments are shown;

2.4.3.7.d

the use of hereditaments;

2.4.3.7.e

the physical characteristics of hereditaments;

2.4.3.7.f

ratepayers in respect of hereditaments falling within prescribed descriptions.

2.4.3.8

Sub-paragraph (7)  does not restrict what may otherwise be done under section
143(1).

2.4.3.9

“N” is a number (greater than one but not greater than two) prescribed by the
appropriate national authority in regulations.

2.4.4

For the purposes of this Schedule, “the appropriate national authority” is—

2.4.4.a

in relation to England, the Secretary of State;

2.4.4.b

in relation to Wales, the Welsh Ministers.

#### Central rating: liability and mandatory reliefs

3

3.1

In section 54 of the Act (central rating: liability)—

3.1.a

in the heading, after “liability” insert  “and reliefs” ;

3.1.b

in subsection (2), in paragraph (a), after “chargeable day” insert  “in
accordance with  Schedule 5A ” ;

3.1.c

omit subsections (4) to (7).

3.2

Omit section 54ZA of the Act (relief for telecommunications infrastructure).

3.3

After Schedule 5 to the Act insert—

  Central rating: chargeable amount

Section 54

############ Chargeable amount before any reliefs

3.3.1

Subject to the following provisions of this Schedule, the chargeable amount
for a chargeable day is to be calculated—

3.3.1.a

in relation to England, in accordance with the formula—

A × M C

3.3.1.b

in relation to Wales, in accordance with the formula—

A × B C

############ Reliefs

############# Charitable rate relief

3.3.2

3.3.2.1

This paragraph applies where—

3.3.2.1.a

for any day in a chargeable financial year a person’s name is shown in a
central non-domestic rating list in force for the year, and

3.3.2.1.b

on the day concerned—

3.3.2.1.b.i

the person is a charity or trustees for a charity, and

3.3.2.1.b.ii

the charitable purpose test is satisfied in relation to any description of
hereditament shown against the person’s name in the list.

3.3.2.2

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (1) (b)  the charitable purpose test is
satisfied in relation to a description of hereditament if—

3.3.2.2.a

in a case where there is only one hereditament falling within the description,
the hereditament is wholly or mainly used for charitable purposes (whether of
the charity mentioned in  sub-paragraph (1) (b) (i)  or of that charity and
other charities), or

3.3.2.2.b

in a case where there is more than one hereditament falling within the
description, those hereditaments are, taken together, wholly or mainly so
used.

3.3.2.3

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (1) (b)  the charitable purpose test is
also satisfied in relation to a description of hereditament if—

3.3.2.3.a

in a case where there is only one hereditament falling within the description—

3.3.2.3.a.i

a certification under  paragraph 4 (1) (b)  has effect in relation to the
hereditament (“the unoccupied hereditament”), and

3.3.2.3.a.ii

it appears that when next in use the unoccupied hereditament will be wholly or
mainly used for charitable purposes (whether of the charity mentioned in  sub-
paragraph (1) (b) (i)  or of that charity and other charities), or

3.3.2.3.b

in a case where there is more than one hereditament falling within the
description—

3.3.2.3.b.i

a certification under  paragraph 4 (1) (b)  has effect in relation to at least
one of those hereditaments (“the unoccupied hereditaments”), and

3.3.2.3.b.ii

it appears that all the hereditaments falling within the description, taken
together, are (or, in the case of the unoccupied hereditaments, when next in
use will be) used for charitable purposes (whether of the charity mentioned in
sub-paragraph (1) (b) (i)  or of that charity and other charities).

3.3.2.4

Where this paragraph applies, the chargeable amount for the day concerned in
respect of the description of hereditament is to be calculated—

3.3.2.4.a

in relation to England, in accordance with the formula—

A × M C × 5

3.3.2.4.b

in relation to Wales, in accordance with the formula—

A × B C × 5

############# Improvement rate relief

3.3.3

3.3.3.1

This paragraph applies where—

3.3.3.1.a

for any day in a chargeable financial year a person's name is shown in a
central non-domestic rating list in force for the year,

3.3.3.1.b

on the day concerned the condition in  sub-paragraph (2)  is satisfied in
relation to one or more hereditaments falling within a description of
hereditament shown against the person’s name in the list,

3.3.3.1.c

in relation to any of the hereditaments in relation to which that condition is
satisfied—

3.3.3.1.c.i

a certification under  paragraph 4 (1) (b)  does not have effect in relation
to the hereditament, and

3.3.3.1.c.ii

any conditions prescribed by the appropriate national authority in regulations
are satisfied, and

3.3.3.1.d

the day concerned falls before 1 April 2029.

3.3.3.2

The condition in this sub-paragraph is satisfied in relation to a hereditament
if the day concerned falls within the period of one year beginning with the
day on which qualifying improvement works are completed.

3.3.3.3

“ Qualifying improvement works ” has the meaning given by the appropriate
national authority in regulations.

3.3.3.4

The appropriate national authority may by regulations amend—

3.3.3.4.a

paragraph (d)  of  sub-paragraph (1)  to substitute a later date for the date
for the time being specified in that paragraph;

3.3.3.4.b

sub-paragraph (2)  to substitute a longer period for the period for the time
being specified in that paragraph.

3.3.3.5

For the consequence of this paragraph applying, see the definitions of “A” and
“G” in  paragraph 6 .

############# Unoccupied hereditaments rate relief

3.3.4

3.3.4.1

This paragraph applies where for any day in a chargeable financial year—

3.3.4.1.a

a person’s name is shown in an English central non-domestic rating list in
force for the year,

3.3.4.1.b

the central valuation officer has certified that one or more hereditaments
falling within a description of hereditament shown against the person’s name
in the list is unoccupied, and

3.3.4.1.c

any of the hereditaments so certified falls within a class prescribed by the
Secretary of State in regulations.

3.3.4.2

This sub-paragraph applies if, for the day concerned, every hereditament
falling within that description of hereditament—

3.3.4.2.a

has been certified by the central valuation officer as unoccupied, and

3.3.4.2.b

falls within a class prescribed by the Secretary of State in regulations under
sub-paragraph (1) (c) .

3.3.4.3

Where this paragraph and  sub-paragraph (2)  apply, the chargeable amount for
the day concerned in respect of that description of hereditament is zero.

3.3.4.4

Where this paragraph applies but  sub-paragraph (2)  does not apply, the
chargeable amount for the day concerned in respect of that description of
hereditament is to be calculated in accordance with the formula—

( A - U ) × M C

3.3.4.5

Regulations under  sub-paragraph (1) (c)  may prescribe a class by reference
to such factors as the Secretary of State sees fit, including (among other
things)—

3.3.4.5.a

the physical characteristics of the hereditaments;

3.3.4.5.b

the fact that hereditaments have been unoccupied at any time preceding the
chargeable day;

3.3.4.5.c

the fact that the persons in relation to whom descriptions of hereditaments
are shown fall within prescribed descriptions.

3.3.4.6

Sub-paragraph (5)  does not restrict what may otherwise be done under section
143(1).

3.3.4.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision imposing duties or
conferring powers on the central valuation officer in relation to the
certification of hereditaments as unoccupied.

3.3.4.8

In this paragraph, “ English central rating list ” means a central non-
domestic rating list compiled for England.

############ Cases where more than one relief applies

3.3.5

3.3.5.1

This paragraph applies if—

3.3.5.1.a

for any day in a financial year any description of hereditament is shown
against a person’s name in a central non-domestic rating list in force for the
year, and

3.3.5.1.b

paragraphs  2  and  4  apply in relation to that description of hereditament
for that day.

3.3.5.2

The chargeable amount for that day in respect of that description of
hereditament is to be calculated in accordance with paragraph  2 .

############ Interpretation

3.3.6

3.3.6.1

This paragraph applies for the purposes of this Schedule.

3.3.6.2

“A” is—

3.3.6.2.a

where the day concerned is a day on which  paragraph 3  applies, the rateable
value shown for the day in the central non-domestic rating list in force for
the year against the ratepayer’s name minus G;

3.3.6.2.b

in any other case, the rateable value shown for the day in that list against
the ratepayer’s name.

3.3.6.3

“B” is the non-domestic rating multiplier for the financial year.

3.3.6.4

“C” is the number of days in the financial year.

3.3.6.5

“D” is the small business non-domestic rating multiplier for the financial
year.

3.3.6.6

“ G ”, in relation to improvement rate relief, is an amount prescribed, or
calculated in accordance with provision prescribed, by the appropriate
national authority in regulations.

3.3.6.7

Regulations under  sub-paragraph (6)  may (among other things) impose duties
or confer powers on the central valuation officer (whether as regards
determinations, certificates or otherwise) in relation to the ascertainment of
rateable values or of G.

3.3.6.8

“M” is—

3.3.6.8.a

whichever of B or D is prescribed for the purposes of the provision in
question by the Treasury in regulations, or

3.3.6.8.b

for the purposes of a provision where there is no such prescription, B.

3.3.6.9

Regulations under  sub-paragraph (8)  may prescribe different multipliers for
a given provision by reference to (among other things)—

3.3.6.9.a

the value of A (on the first day of a chargeable financial year or for a
chargeable day) in relation to hereditaments;

3.3.6.9.b

the location of hereditaments;

3.3.6.9.c

the use of hereditaments;

3.3.6.9.d

the physical characteristics of hereditaments;

3.3.6.9.e

ratepayers in respect of hereditaments falling within prescribed descriptions.

3.3.6.10

Sub-paragraph (9)  does not restrict what may otherwise be done under section
143(1).

3.3.6.11

“ U ”, in relation to unoccupied hereditaments rate relief, is the total
rateable value of the hereditaments falling within the description mentioned
in  paragraph 4 (1) (b)  which, for the chargeable day—

3.3.6.11.a

have been certified by the central valuation officer as unoccupied under that
paragraph, and

3.3.6.11.b

fall within a class prescribed by the Secretary of State in regulations under
paragraph 4 (1) (c) .

3.3.7

For the purposes of this Schedule, “the appropriate national authority” is—

3.3.7.a

in relation to England, the Secretary of State;

3.3.7.b

in relation to Wales, the Welsh Ministers.

### Discretionary relief

#### Local rating: discretionary relief

4

4.1

Section 47 of the Act (discretionary relief) is amended as follows.

4.2

After subsection (6) insert—

4.2.6A

A decision under subsection (3) by a billing authority in England is invalid
as regards a day if—

4.2.6A.a

the day falls before the end of the financial year beginning on 1 April 2022,
and

4.2.6A.b

the decision is made more than six months after the end of the financial year
in which the day falls.

4.3

In subsection (7), after “above” insert  “by a billing authority in Wales” .

### Administration etc

#### Frequency with which lists are compiled

5

5.1

In section 41(2A) of the Act (local non-domestic rating lists), in paragraph
(b), for “fifth” substitute  “third” .

5.2

In section 52(2A) of the Act (central non-domestic rating lists), in paragraph
(b), for “fifth” substitute  “third” .

5.3

In section 57A(13) of the Act (transitional provision for 2005 onwards:
England), for paragraph (a) substitute—

5.3.a

a relevant period is—

5.3.a.i

each period of five years beginning on 1 April 2005, 1 April 2010 and 1 April
2017, and

5.3.a.ii

a period of three years beginning on 1 April 2023 or on any 1 April after that
date on which lists must be compiled;

.

#### Transitional relief

6

In section 57A of the Act (transitional provision for 2005 onwards: England)—

6.a

in subsection (9), for “January” substitute  “February” ;

6.b

in subsection (10), for “the same as” substitute  “no greater than” .

#### Completion notices

7

In section 46A of the Act (unoccupied hereditaments: new buildings), in
subsection (6), in paragraph (b)—

7.a

the words from “a building” to the end become sub-paragraph (i);

7.b

after that sub-paragraph insert

;

7.b.ii

a building situated in England which a hereditament shown in a list comprises
or includes, or which a hereditament that was previously shown (but is no
longer shown) in a list comprised or included, and that has been subject to
alterations;

7.b.iii

part of a building situated in England and added to an existing building which
a hereditament shown in a list comprises or includes or which a hereditament
that was previously shown (but is no longer shown) in a list comprised or
included.

#### Central list administration

8

After section 52 of the Act insert—

######## Contents of central lists for England

8.52A

8.52A.1

The Secretary of State may direct the central valuation officer to show in an
English central rating list, for each day in each chargeable financial year
for which the list is in force—

8.52A.1.a

the name of any specified person, and

8.52A.1.b

in relation to that person, one or more specified descriptions of relevant
non-domestic hereditament in England (wherever situated) which on that day are
occupied or (if unoccupied) owned by the person.

8.52A.2

The Secretary of State may also direct the central valuation officer to do any
of the following in relation to an English central rating list—

8.52A.2.a

for each day in each chargeable financial year for which the list is in force,
to show, in relation to any person shown in the list, one or more additional
specified descriptions of relevant non-domestic hereditament in England
(wherever situated) which on that day are occupied or (if unoccupied) owned by
the person;

8.52A.2.b

to alter or remove the name of any person shown in the list;

8.52A.2.c

to alter or remove any description of relevant non-domestic hereditament shown
in relation to a person in the list.

8.52A.3

In this section—

      “ English central rating list ” means a central non-domestic rating list
compiled, or proposed to be compiled, for England;           “ specified ”
means specified in the direction.

8.52A.4

Where two or more hereditaments fall (or would, as a result of a direction
made under this section, fall) within any description of hereditament shown in
relation to a person in an English central rating list, the Secretary of State
may direct that all of the hereditaments that fall (or would fall) within that
description are to be treated for the purposes of this Part as a single
hereditament falling within that description that is occupied or (if
unoccupied) owned by the person.

8.52A.5

For each day in each chargeable financial year for which an English central
rating list is in force, and in relation to each description of hereditament
shown in relation to a person in the list, the list must show against the name
of the person—

8.52A.5.a

where there is only one hereditament falling within that description, the
rateable value of that hereditament;

8.52A.5.b

where there is more than one hereditament falling within that description, the
rateable value (as a whole) of those hereditaments.

8.52A.6

A direction under this section may require the central valuation officer to
include in an English central rating list specified information about any
person, or any description of hereditament, shown in the list.

8.52A.7

The central valuation officer must comply with any direction given under this
section.

8.52A.8

But where a direction under this section requires the central valuation
officer to alter a list which has been compiled, the officer must do so in
accordance with any provision made by or under section 55 (alteration of
lists).

8.52A.9

A direction under this section must specify the day from which an alteration
to the list made in compliance with the direction is to take effect (which may
be earlier than the day on which the direction is given).

8.52A.10

But a direction may not specify an earlier day than the day on which this
section comes into force.

#### Credits to and debits from main non-domestic rating accounts

9

9.1

In Schedule 7B to the Act (local retention of non-domestic rates), in Part 1
(main non-domestic rating accounts), paragraph 2 (credits and debits) is
amended as follows.

9.2

For sub-paragraphs (3) and (4) substitute—

9.2.3

If a local government finance report for a year has been approved by
resolution of the House of Commons, an amount may be—

9.2.3.a

debited (as an item of account) to the main non-domestic rating account kept
for the year, for use for the purposes of local government in England;

9.2.3.b

credited (as an item of account) to the main non-domestic rating account kept
for the year.

9.2.4

The amount that may be debited under  sub-paragraph (3) (a)  for a year may
not exceed the amount that would result in the aggregate mentioned in
paragraph 3(1)(b) for the year exceeding the aggregate mentioned in paragraph
3(1)(a) for the year.

9.3

In sub-paragraph (5), in the words before paragraph (a), for “sub-paragraph
(3)” substitute  “ sub-paragraph (3) (a) ” .

### Information

#### Disclosure of valuation information to ratepayers

10

In Schedule 9 to the Act (administration), before paragraph 8 (but after the
italic heading “access to information”) insert—

10.7B

10.7B.1

Sub-paragraph (2)  applies where a person (“ P ”) who is a ratepayer in
respect of a hereditament makes a request to a valuation officer (“ V ”) for
Revenue and Customs information—

10.7B.1.a

that relates to the hereditament, and

10.7B.1.b

that V has had regard to in ascertaining the rateable value of the
hereditament.

10.7B.2

V may disclose the information to P if V considers it reasonable to do so.

10.7B.3

A person making a request under this paragraph must make the request—

10.7B.3.a

using the online facility provided by V for use in connection with requests
under this paragraph, or

10.7B.3.b

in another manner agreed with V.

10.7B.4

V may not disclose information under this paragraph if the disclosure would
contravene the data protection legislation (but in determining whether a
disclosure would do so, the power conferred by this paragraph is to be taken
into account).

10.7B.5

In this paragraph—

      “ the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018 (see section 3(9) of that Act);           “ Revenue and
Customs information ” means information held as mentioned in section 18(1) of
the Commissioners for Revenue and Customs Act 2005 (information held in
connection with a function of the Revenue and Customs).

#### Disclosure of valuation information to Northern Ireland rating officials

11

After section 63C of the Act insert—

######## Disclosure of valuation information to Northern Ireland rating officials

11.63D

11.63D.1

Subsection (2)  applies where a Northern Ireland rating official (“ R ”) makes
a request to a valuation officer (“ V ”) for Revenue and Customs information—

11.63D.1.a

that V holds in connection with V’s functions under this Part, and

11.63D.1.b

that R reasonably believes will assist R in the performance of any of R’s
functions under Part 3 of the 1977 Order (valuation).

11.63D.2

V may disclose the information to R if V considers it reasonable to do so.

11.63D.3

Subject to  subsection (4) , the disclosure of information under this section
does not breach—

11.63D.3.a

any obligation of confidence owed by V, or

11.63D.3.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

11.63D.4

V may not disclose information under this section if the disclosure would
contravene the data protection legislation (but in determining whether a
disclosure would do so, the power conferred by this section is to be taken
into account).

11.63D.5

Where information is disclosed under this section, the information may not be—

11.63D.5.a

used for a purpose other than a purpose relating to the performance of any of
R’s functions under Part 3 of the 1977 Order, or

11.63D.5.b

further disclosed,

unless the use of the information for another purpose or the further
disclosure (as the case may be) is authorised by  subsection (6) .

11.63D.6

The use of the information for another purpose or the further disclosure (as
the case may be) is authorised by this subsection where—

11.63D.6.a

the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs consent (specifically
or generally) to it,

11.63D.6.b

each person to whom the information relates consents (specifically or
generally) to it,

11.63D.6.c

it is in pursuance of a court order, or

11.63D.6.d

it is required by any other enactment.

11.63D.7

In  subsection (6) (d) , the reference to an enactment does not include—

11.63D.7.a

an Act of the Scottish Parliament or an instrument made under such an Act,

11.63D.7.b

an Act or Measure of Senedd Cymru or an instrument made under such an Act or
Measure, or

11.63D.7.c

an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly or an instrument made under such an
Act.

11.63D.8

Section 19 of the Commissioners for Revenue and Customs Act 2005 (offence of
wrongful disclosure) applies in relation to a disclosure of information in
contravention of  subsection (5)  which relates to a person whose identity is
specified in, or can be deduced from, the disclosure as it applies in relation
to the disclosure of information in contravention of section 20(9) of that
Act.

11.63D.9

Revenue and customs information relating to a person which has been disclosed
under this section is exempt information by virtue of section 44(1)(a) of the
Freedom of Information Act 2000 (prohibition on disclosure) if its further
disclosure—

11.63D.9.a

would specify the identity of the person to whom the information relates, or

11.63D.9.b

would enable the identity of such a person to be deduced.

11.63D.10

In this section—

      “ the 1977 Order ” means the Rates (Northern Ireland) Order 1977 ( S.I.
1977/2157 (N.I. 28)) ;           “ the data protection legislation ” has the
same meaning as in the Data Protection Act 2018 (see section 3(9) of that
Act);           “ Northern Ireland rating official ” means an officer
appointed under Article 36 of the 1977 Order (the Commissioner, district
valuers and the Valuation Office);           “ Revenue and Customs information
” means information held as mentioned in section 18(1) of the Commissioners
for Revenue and Customs Act 2005 (information held in connection with a
function of the Revenue and Customs);           “ revenue and customs
information relating to a person ” has the same meaning as in section 19(2) of
the Commissioners for Revenue and Customs Act 2005.

#### Sharing of information between billing authorities and HMRC

12

12.1

In section 63A of the Act (disclosure of Revenue and Customs information),
after subsection (1) insert—

12.1.1A

An officer of His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs may disclose Revenue and
Customs information to a qualifying person within subsection (3)(a) for a
qualifying purpose.

12.2

After  section 63D  of the Act (inserted by  section 11  of this Act) insert—

########## Disclosure of non-domestic rating information to HMRC

12.2.63E

12.2.63E.1

A billing authority may disclose non-domestic rating information to an officer
of His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs for the purpose of assisting His
Majesty’s Revenue and Customs in carrying out its functions.

12.2.63E.2

An officer of His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs may require a billing
authority to disclose non-domestic rating information to the officer for that
purpose.

12.2.63E.3

No disclosure may be made under this section if the disclosure would
contravene the data protection legislation (but in determining whether a
disclosure would do so, the power and duty to disclose information under this
section are to be taken into account).

12.2.63E.4

In this section—

      “ non-domestic rating information ” means information held by a billing
authority in connection with the billing authority’s functions under this
Part;           “ the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in
the Data Protection Act 2018 (see section 3(9) of that Act).

#### Requirements for ratepayers etc to provide information

13

13.1

Schedule 9 to the Act (administration) is amended as follows.

13.2

After paragraph 4A insert—

########## Information to be provided to His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs

13.2.4B

Paragraphs 4C  to  4E  apply to a person (“ P ”) who is for the time being a
ratepayer in respect of a hereditament (but see  paragraph 4G ).

13.2.4C

P must make a taxpayer reference notification to an officer of His Majesty’s
Revenue and Customs where P has a taxpayer reference number and—

13.2.4C.a

P has not previously made a notification in respect of the hereditament
mentioned in  paragraph 4B , or

13.2.4C.b

P has previously made such a notification and a taxpayer reference provided in
that notification was, or has become, incorrect.

13.2.4D

P must make a taxpayer reference notification within the period of 60 days
beginning with—

13.2.4D.a

in the circumstances mentioned in  paragraph 4C (a) , the day on which P
becomes a ratepayer in respect of the hereditament mentioned in  paragraph 4B
;

13.2.4D.b

in the circumstances mentioned in  paragraph 4C (b) , the first day on which P
knows, or ought to have known, that the taxpayer reference mentioned in that
paragraph is incorrect.

13.2.4E

For the purposes of  paragraph 4C , P must make a taxpayer reference
notification—

13.2.4E.a

using the online facility provided by the officer of His Majesty’s Revenue and
Customs for use in connection with the provision of a taxpayer reference under
that paragraph, or

13.2.4E.b

in another manner agreed with the officer.

13.2.4F

13.2.4F.1

For the purposes of  paragraphs 4C  to  4E —

      “ taxpayer reference ” means any of the following—         P’s unique
taxpayer reference;           P’s VAT registration number;           P’s
national insurance number;                 “ taxpayer reference notification ”
means a notification in respect of the hereditament mentioned in  paragraph 4B
made by P to an officer of His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs specifying P’s
taxpayer reference.

13.2.4F.2

The Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs may by regulations
amend the definition of “taxpayer reference” in  sub-paragraph (1)  so as to
add, remove or vary items for the time being specified in that definition.

13.2.4G

The Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs may by regulations
provide that  paragraphs 4C  to  4E  do not apply in relation to a person, or
group of persons, of a description specified in the regulations.

13.2.4H

The Commissioners for His Majesty's Revenue and Customs must consult the Welsh
Ministers before making regulations under  paragraph 4F (2)  or  4G  if and to
the extent that the regulations make provision in relation to Wales.

13.3

After  paragraph 4H  (inserted by  subsection (2) ) insert—

########## Information to be provided to valuation officer: England

13.3.4I

Paragraphs 4J  to  4L  apply, in relation to a hereditament situated in
England, to a person (“ P ”) who—

13.3.4I.a

is for the time being a ratepayer in respect of the hereditament, or

13.3.4I.b

would be a ratepayer in respect of the hereditament if the hereditament were
shown in a list compiled under this Part.

13.3.4J

13.3.4J.1

P must, within the notification period, provide any notifiable information
within P’s possession or control to the valuation officer responsible for
maintaining the list in which the hereditament is, or would fall to be, shown.

13.3.4J.2

For the purposes of this paragraph and  paragraphs 4K  and  4L  (and subject
to  sub-paragraph (3) ), information is “notifiable information” if it relates
to a change—

13.3.4J.2.a

in the identity of P;

13.3.4J.2.b

concerning the hereditament that would or might affect the existence, extent
or rateable value of the hereditament.

13.3.4J.3

But information is not “notifiable information” unless P knows, or could
reasonably be expected to know, that it would assist a valuation officer in
carrying out functions conferred or imposed on the officer by or under this
Part.

13.3.4J.4

The “notification period” is—

13.3.4J.4.a

the period of 60 days beginning with the day on which the change mentioned in
sub-paragraph (2)  occurs, or

13.3.4J.4.b

in relation to information, or information of a description, specified in a
notice published by a valuation officer for the purposes of this sub-
paragraph, such longer period as may be specified in the notice.

13.3.4K

P must, within the period of 60 days beginning with 30 April each year,
provide confirmation (“annual confirmation”) to the valuation officer that—

13.3.4K.a

P has provided all notifiable information required to be provided under
paragraph 4J  relating to changes occurring in the most recent complete
financial year, or

13.3.4K.b

P was not required to provide any such notifiable information.

13.3.4L

For the purposes of  paragraphs 4J  and  4K , P must provide the notifiable
information or annual confirmation (as the case may be) to the valuation
officer—

13.3.4L.a

using the online facility provided by the valuation officer for use in
connection with the provision of notifiable information or annual confirmation
(as the case may be) under that paragraph, or

13.3.4L.b

in another manner agreed with the valuation officer.

13.3.4M

13.3.4M.1

A valuation officer may serve a notice (an “information notice”) on a person
who is an owner or occupier of a hereditament situated in England requesting
that the person supplies to the officer information—

13.3.4M.1.a

which is specified in the information notice, and

13.3.4M.1.b

which the officer reasonably believes will assist the officer in carrying out
functions conferred or imposed on the officer by or under this Part.

13.3.4M.2

An information notice under  sub-paragraph (1)  must state that the officer
believes the information requested will assist them in carrying out functions
conferred or imposed on them by or under this Part.

13.3.4M.3

A person on whom an information notice is served must provide the information
requested in such form and manner as is specified in the notice within the
period of 60 days beginning with the day on which the notice is served.

13.4

After paragraph 5 insert—

########## Information to be provided to His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs: penalties

13.4.5ZA

13.4.5ZA.1

Where a person (“ P ”) fails to comply with the requirement to make a taxpayer
reference notification (within the meaning of  paragraph 4F ) in accordance
with  paragraph 4C , P is liable to a penalty not exceeding £100.

13.4.5ZA.2

Where P carelessly or deliberately provides an incorrect taxpayer reference in
purported compliance with  paragraph 4C , P is liable to a penalty not
exceeding £3,000.

13.4.5ZA.3

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (2) , P is careless if P fails to take
reasonable care.

13.4.5ZA.4

Where P is liable to a penalty under  sub-paragraph (1)  or  (2) , an officer
of His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs may serve a notice (a “penalty notice”)
on P stating—

13.4.5ZA.4.a

that P has failed to make a taxpayer reference notification in accordance with
paragraph 4C ,

13.4.5ZA.4.b

that P is liable to a penalty under  sub-paragraph (1)  or  (2)  (as the case
may be),

13.4.5ZA.4.c

the amount of the penalty,

13.4.5ZA.4.d

the period within which the penalty must be paid,

13.4.5ZA.4.e

that P has a right to require a review under  paragraph 5BA , and

13.4.5ZA.4.f

that P has a right of appeal under  paragraph 5BB .

13.4.5ZA.5

A penalty notice may be served in relation to one or more liabilities under
this paragraph.

13.4.5ZA.6

A penalty imposed under  sub-paragraph (1)  or  (2)  must be paid within the
period of 30 days beginning with the date of the penalty notice (but see
paragraph 5BC (1)  and  (2) ).

13.4.5ZA.7

Where P is liable to a penalty under  sub-paragraph (1)  or  (2)  and fails to
comply with the requirement to make a taxpayer reference notification within
the period of 30 days beginning with the day on which the penalty notice is
served, P is liable to a maximum further penalty of £60 for each day on which
the failure continues after the end of that period (but see  sub-paragraph (8)
).

13.4.5ZA.8

P’s total liability under  sub-paragraph (7)  may not exceed £1,800.

13.4.5ZB

An officer of His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs may mitigate or remit any
penalty imposed under  paragraph 5ZA .

13.5

After  paragraph 5ZB  (inserted by  subsection (4) ) insert—

########## Information to be provided to valuation officer: penalties: England

13.5.5ZC

13.5.5ZC.1

Where a person (“ P ”) fails to comply with a valuation notification
requirement (including where P makes a false statement in purported compliance
with the requirement), P is liable to a penalty the amount of which is
determined in accordance with  paragraph 5ZD (1) .

13.5.5ZC.2

Where P knowingly or recklessly makes a false statement in purported
compliance with a valuation notification requirement, P commits an offence and
is liable on summary conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3
months or to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale or to both
(but see  sub-paragraph (7) ).

13.5.5ZC.3

A valuation officer may, if satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that P has
committed an offence under  sub-paragraph (2) , determine that P is instead
liable to a penalty the amount of which is determined in accordance with
paragraph 5ZD (2)  (see also  sub-paragraphs (9)  and  (10)  of this
paragraph).

13.5.5ZC.4

Where P is liable to a penalty under  sub-paragraph (1)  or  (3) , the
valuation officer may serve a notice (a “penalty notice”) on P stating—

13.5.5ZC.4.a

the valuation notification requirement with which P has failed to comply,

13.5.5ZC.4.b

that P is liable to a penalty under  sub-paragraph (1)  or  (3)  (as the case
may be),

13.5.5ZC.4.c

the amount of the penalty,

13.5.5ZC.4.d

the period within which the penalty must be paid,

13.5.5ZC.4.e

in a case where P is liable to a penalty under  sub-paragraph (1) , the effect
of  paragraph 5ZD (3) ,

13.5.5ZC.4.f

that P has a right to require a review under  paragraph 5BD , and

13.5.5ZC.4.g

that P has a right of appeal under  paragraph 5BE .

13.5.5ZC.5

A penalty notice may be served in relation to one or more liabilities under
this paragraph.

13.5.5ZC.6

A penalty imposed under  sub-paragraph (1)  or  (3)  must be paid within the
period of 30 days beginning with the date of the penalty notice (but see
paragraph 5BF (1)  and  (2) ).

13.5.5ZC.7

Where a penalty notice is served on P in relation to a liability under  sub-
paragraph (3)  in respect of a false statement—

13.5.5ZC.7.a

no criminal proceedings for an offence under  sub-paragraph (2)  may be
instituted against P, and no further penalty notice may be served, in respect
of the false statement before the end of the period within which the liability
under  sub-paragraph (3)  may be discharged as a result of payment or
remittance of the penalty;

13.5.5ZC.7.b

if the liability under  sub-paragraph (3)  is discharged (for any reason),
then in respect of the false statement—

13.5.5ZC.7.b.i

no criminal proceedings for an offence under  sub-paragraph (2)  may be
instituted against P (and P may not at any time be convicted of an offence
under that sub-paragraph in any proceedings that have already been
instituted);

13.5.5ZC.7.b.ii

no further penalty notice may be served on P in relation to liability under
sub-paragraph (3)  in respect of the false statement;

13.5.5ZC.7.c

if the liability under  sub-paragraph (3)  is discharged as a result of the
payment of the penalty, then, in respect of the false statement, any penalty
notice previously served on P in relation to liability under  sub-paragraph
(1)  which has not been discharged ceases to have effect.

13.5.5ZC.8

The discharge of liability under  sub-paragraph (3)  in respect of a false
statement as a result of the remittance of a penalty does not prevent a
penalty notice being served in relation to any liability under sub-paragraph
(1)  in respect of that false statement.

13.5.5ZC.9

Sub-paragraph (10)  applies where—

13.5.5ZC.9.a

a penalty notice is served on P in relation to a liability under  sub-
paragraph (1)  in respect of a false statement,

13.5.5ZC.9.b

P’s liability under that sub-paragraph has been discharged as a result of P
paying the penalty, and

13.5.5ZC.9.c

either—

13.5.5ZC.9.c.i

P is subsequently convicted of an offence under  sub-paragraph (2)  in respect
of the false statement, or

13.5.5ZC.9.c.ii

a penalty notice (“the subsequent penalty notice”) is subsequently served on P
in relation to a liability under  sub-paragraph (3)  in respect of the false
statement.

13.5.5ZC.10

The sentence on conviction, or the amount of the penalty stated in the
subsequent penalty notice, must reflect the amount of the penalty paid by P in
discharging P’s liability under  sub-paragraph (1) .

13.5.5ZC.11

For the purposes this paragraph and in  paragraphs 5ZD  and  5ZE —

      “ false statement ” means a statement made by P which is false in a
material particular;           “ valuation notification requirement ” means a
requirement under  paragraph 4J  to  4M .

13.5.5ZD

13.5.5ZD.1

Where P is liable to a penalty under  paragraph 5ZC (1) , the maximum amount
of the penalty is the greater of—

13.5.5ZD.1.a

2% of the rateable value shown in a list compiled under this Part or, if
greater, of the actual rateable value of the hereditament concerned for the
day on which the liability to the penalty arises, and

13.5.5ZD.1.b

£900.

13.5.5ZD.2

Where P is liable to a penalty under  paragraph 5ZC (3) , the maximum amount
of the penalty is the sum of—

13.5.5ZD.2.a

3% of the rateable value shown in a list compiled under this Part or, if
greater, of the actual rateable value of the hereditament concerned for the
day on which the liability to the penalty arises, and

13.5.5ZD.2.b

£500.

13.5.5ZD.3

Where P is liable to a penalty under  paragraph 5ZC (1)  and fails to comply
with the valuation notification requirement within the period of 30 days
beginning with the day on which the penalty notice is served, P is liable to a
maximum further penalty of £60 for each day on which the failure continues
after the end of that period (but see  sub-paragraph (4) ).

13.5.5ZD.4

P’s total liability under  sub-paragraph (3)  may not exceed £1,800.

13.5.5ZE

13.5.5ZE.1

For the purposes of  paragraph 5ZD —

13.5.5ZE.1.a

the “actual rateable value” of a hereditament is the rateable value of the
hereditament that, disregarding any matter within  sub-paragraph (2) , would
be shown in a list compiled under this Part for the day on which the liability
to the penalty arises if P had complied with all valuation notification
requirements;

13.5.5ZE.1.b

the “hereditament concerned” is the hereditament in relation to which the
valuation notification requirement applies to P;

13.5.5ZE.1.c

a list compiled under this Part is to be used to find the rateable value of
the hereditament for the day concerned.

13.5.5ZE.2

A matter is within this sub-paragraph if—

13.5.5ZE.2.a

a change occurs in relation to it at any time during the period beginning with
the specified day and ending with the day on which the liability to the
penalty arises, and

13.5.5ZE.2.b

the change results or would result in a reduction in the rateable value of the
hereditament shown in a list compiled under this Part for the day concerned.

13.5.5ZE.3

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (2)  the “specified day” is—

13.5.5ZE.3.a

where the penalty notice is served in respect of a failure by P to provide
notifiable information under  paragraph 4J , the first day of the notification
period (within the meaning of that paragraph), or

13.5.5ZE.3.b

where the penalty notice is served in respect of a failure by P to provide
information that is—

13.5.5ZE.3.b.i

required by an information notice under  paragraph 4M (1) , but

13.5.5ZE.3.b.ii

not required to be provided under  paragraph 4J ,

the day on which the information notice is served.

13.5.5ZF

A valuation officer may mitigate or remit any penalty imposed under  paragraph
5ZC  or  5ZD .

13.6

After paragraph 5B insert—

########## Reviews and appeals of decisions of His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs

13.6.5BA

13.6.5BA.1

A person (“ P ”) who is served with a penalty notice under  paragraph 5ZA (4)
may require a review of the decision to serve the penalty notice.

13.6.5BA.2

P requires a review under  sub-paragraph (1)  by giving notice to the issuing
officer within the period of 30 days beginning with the date of the penalty
notice—

13.6.5BA.2.a

using the online facility provided by the issuing officer for use in
connection with notices under this paragraph, or

13.6.5BA.2.b

in another manner agreed with the issuing officer.

13.6.5BA.3

Sub-paragraphs (4)  to  (9)  apply where P gives notice in accordance with
sub-paragraph (2) .

13.6.5BA.4

The review must be carried out by a reviewing officer.

13.6.5BA.5

The reviewing officer must have regard to anything done by P or the issuing
officer in connection with the decision to serve the penalty notice.

13.6.5BA.6

Otherwise, the nature and extent of the review are to be such as appear
appropriate to the reviewing officer in the circumstances.

13.6.5BA.7

The review must conclude that the penalty is to be—

13.6.5BA.7.a

confirmed,

13.6.5BA.7.b

mitigated, or

13.6.5BA.7.c

remitted.

13.6.5BA.8

The reviewing officer must notify P of the conclusions of the review and their
reasoning within the period of 45 days beginning with the day on which P gave
notice under  sub-paragraph (2) .

13.6.5BA.9

Where a review is required to be carried out under this paragraph but the
reviewing officer does not give notice to P within the time period specified
in  sub-paragraph (8) , the reviewing officer is deemed to have notified P
that the penalty is confirmed.

13.6.5BA.10

In this paragraph and  paragraph 5BB —

      “ issuing officer ” means the officer of His Majesty’s Revenue and
Customs who served the notice;           “ reviewing officer ” means an
officer of His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs other than the officer who served
the notice.

13.6.5BB

13.6.5BB.1

This paragraph applies where a reviewing officer notifies, or is deemed to
have notified, P of the conclusions of a review in accordance with  paragraph
5BA .

13.6.5BB.2

P may appeal to the valuation tribunal within the period of 30 days beginning
with the day on which the reviewing officer notifies, or is deemed to have
notified, P of the conclusions of the review.

13.6.5BB.3

On an appeal under this paragraph the valuation tribunal may mitigate or
remit—

13.6.5BB.3.a

a penalty arising under  paragraph 5ZA (1)  if it is satisfied—

13.6.5BB.3.a.i

that P had a reasonable excuse for not complying with the requirement
specified in  paragraph 4C , or

13.6.5BB.3.a.ii

that P has in fact complied with that requirement (including by virtue of P
not in fact being required to make a notification or provide any information
(as the case may be));

13.6.5BB.3.b

a penalty arising under  paragraph 5ZA (2)  if it is satisfied that P did not
carelessly or deliberately make a false statement (within the meaning of that
paragraph).

13.6.5BB.4

In this paragraph “ valuation tribunal ” means—

13.6.5BB.4.a

for the purposes of an appeal relating to a hereditament situated in England,
the Valuation Tribunal for England;

13.6.5BB.4.b

for the purposes of an appeal relating to a hereditament situated in Wales, a
valuation tribunal established under paragraph 1 of Schedule 11.

13.6.5BC

13.6.5BC.1

Sub-paragraph (2)  applies, in relation to a penalty imposed under  sub-
paragraph (1)  or  (2)  of  paragraph 5ZA , where P—

13.6.5BC.1.a

requires a review under  paragraph 5BA , or

13.6.5BC.1.b

appeals to the valuation tribunal under  paragraph 5BB .

13.6.5BC.2

The period within which the penalty must be paid is extended by the period—

13.6.5BC.2.a

beginning with the day on which P requires a review or appeals to the
valuation tribunal, and

13.6.5BC.2.b

ending with the day on which the review or appeal is finally determined.

13.6.5BC.3

Neither a review under  paragraph 5BA  nor an appeal under  paragraph 5BB
prevents liability to any further penalty or penalties arising under
paragraph 5ZA (7) .

13.6.5BC.4

A review under  paragraph 5BA  or an appeal under  paragraph 5BB  in respect
of a penalty imposed under  sub-paragraph (1)  or  (2)  of  paragraph 5ZA  (as
the case may be) is to be treated as a review of, or appeal against, that
penalty and any further penalty which may be imposed under  paragraph 5ZA (7)
.

13.7

After  paragraph 5BC  (inserted by  subsection (6) ) insert—

########## Reviews and appeals of decisions of valuation officer: England

13.7.5BD

13.7.5BD.1

A person (“ P ”) who is served with a penalty notice under  paragraph 5ZC (4)
may require a review of the decision to serve the penalty notice.

13.7.5BD.2

P requires a review under  sub-paragraph (1)  by giving notice to the issuing
officer within the period of 30 days beginning with the date of the penalty
notice—

13.7.5BD.2.a

using the online facility provided by the issuing officer for use in
connection with notices under this paragraph, or

13.7.5BD.2.b

in another manner agreed with the issuing officer.

13.7.5BD.3

Sub-paragraphs (4)  to  (9)  apply where P gives notice in accordance with
sub-paragraph (2) .

13.7.5BD.4

The review must be carried out by a reviewing officer.

13.7.5BD.5

The reviewing officer must have regard to anything done by P or the issuing
officer in connection with the decision to serve the penalty notice.

13.7.5BD.6

Otherwise, the nature and extent of the review are to be such as appear
appropriate to the reviewing officer in the circumstances.

13.7.5BD.7

The review must conclude that the penalty is to be—

13.7.5BD.7.a

confirmed,

13.7.5BD.7.b

mitigated, or

13.7.5BD.7.c

remitted.

13.7.5BD.8

The reviewing officer must notify P of the conclusions of the review and their
reasoning within the period of 45 days beginning with the day on which P gave
the notice under  sub-paragraph (2) .

13.7.5BD.9

Where a review is required to be carried out under this paragraph but the
reviewing officer does not give notice to P within the time period specified
in  sub-paragraph (8) , the reviewing officer is deemed to have notified P
that the penalty is confirmed.

13.7.5BD.10

In this paragraph and  paragraph 5BE —

      “ issuing officer ” means the valuation officer who served the notice;
“ reviewing officer ” means a valuation officer other than the officer who
served the notice.

13.7.5BE

13.7.5BE.1

This paragraph applies where a reviewing officer notifies, or is deemed to
have notified, P of the conclusions of a review in accordance with  paragraph
5BD .

13.7.5BE.2

P may appeal to the valuation tribunal within the period of 30 days beginning
with the day on which the reviewing officer notifies, or is deemed to have
notified, P of the conclusions of the review.

13.7.5BE.3

On an appeal under this paragraph the valuation tribunal may mitigate or remit
a penalty arising under  paragraph 5ZC (1)  if it is satisfied—

13.7.5BE.3.a

that P had a reasonable excuse for not complying with the requirement
mentioned in that sub-paragraph, or

13.7.5BE.3.b

that P has in fact complied with that requirement (including by virtue of P
not in fact being required to make a notification or provide any information
(as the case may be)).

13.7.5BE.4

On an appeal under this paragraph the valuation tribunal must remit a penalty
arising under  paragraph 5ZC (3)  unless it is satisfied beyond reasonable
doubt that P knowingly or recklessly made a false statement (within the
meaning of that paragraph).

13.7.5BE.5

In this paragraph “ valuation tribunal ” means the Valuation Tribunal for
England.

13.7.5BF

13.7.5BF.1

Sub-paragraph (2)  applies, in relation to a penalty imposed under  paragraph
5ZC (1)  or  (3) , where P—

13.7.5BF.1.a

requires a review under  paragraph 5BD , or

13.7.5BF.1.b

appeals to the valuation tribunal under  paragraph 5BE .

13.7.5BF.2

The period within which the penalty must be paid is extended by the period—

13.7.5BF.2.a

beginning with the day on which P requires a review or appeals to the
valuation tribunal, and

13.7.5BF.2.b

ending with the day on which the review or appeal is finally determined.

13.7.5BF.3

Neither a review under  paragraph 5BD  nor an appeal under  paragraph 5BE
prevents liability to any further penalty or penalties arising under
paragraph 5ZD (3) .

13.7.5BF.4

A review under  paragraph 5BD  or an appeal under  paragraph 5BE  in respect
of a penalty imposed under  paragraph 5ZC (1)  is to be treated as a review
of, or appeal against, that penalty and any further penalty which may be
imposed under  paragraph 5ZD (3) .

### Valuation and multipliers

#### Alterations to lists: matters not to be taken into account in valuation

14

14.1

In Schedule 6 to the Act (valuation)—

14.1.a

in paragraph 2(5), at the end insert  “(but this is subject to paragraph 2ZA)”
;

14.1.b

in paragraph 2(6), at the end insert  “(but this is subject to paragraph 2ZA)”
;

14.1.c

in paragraph 2(7)—

14.1.c.i

for paragraph (a) substitute—

14.1.c.i.a

matters affecting the physical state of the hereditament,

14.1.c.i.aa

matters affecting the physical enjoyment of the hereditament,

;

14.1.c.ii

for paragraph (d) substitute—

14.1.c.ii.d

matters affecting the physical state of the locality in which the hereditament
is situated,

14.1.c.ii.da

matters which, though not affecting the physical state of the locality in
which the hereditament is situated, are nonetheless physically manifest there,
and

;

14.1.d

after paragraph 2 insert—

14.1.d.2ZA

14.1.d.2ZA.1

Sub-paragraph (2) applies for the purposes of—

14.1.d.2ZA.1.a

compiling a list on or after 1 April 2026, where the day by reference to which
the rateable value of a non-domestic hereditament in England is to be
determined is a day specified under paragraph 2(3)(b), and

14.1.d.2ZA.1.b

altering a list compiled on or after 1 April 2023.

14.1.d.2ZA.2

In making a determination or a further determination as to the rateable value
of a hereditament situated in England for the purposes for which this
paragraph applies, no account is to be taken of any change to a matter within
paragraph 2(7)(aa), (da) or (e) that—

14.1.d.2ZA.2.a

is directly or indirectly attributable to a relevant factor, and

14.1.d.2ZA.2.b

in a case within sub-paragraph (1)(a), occurs after the day by reference to
which the rateable value is to be determined but on or before the day on which
the list is to be compiled.

14.1.d.2ZA.3

The relevant factors are—

14.1.d.2ZA.3.a

legislation of any country or territory;

14.1.d.2ZA.3.b

provision that is not within paragraph (a) but is made under, and given effect
by, legislation of any country or territory;

14.1.d.2ZA.3.c

advice or guidance given by a public authority of any country or territory;

14.1.d.2ZA.3.d

anything done by a person with a view to compliance with anything within
paragraph (a), (b) or (c).

14.1.d.2ZA.4

Sub-paragraph (2) does not apply to the making of a determination to the
extent that it concerns whether a hereditament or some part of a hereditament—

14.1.d.2ZA.4.a

is or is not a domestic property, or

14.1.d.2ZA.4.b

is or is not exempt from local non-domestic rating.

14.1.d.2ZA.5

In this paragraph—

      “ legislation ” includes any provision of a legislative character;
“ public authority ” includes any person exercising functions of a public
nature.

14.2

In the Non-Domestic Rating (Alteration of Lists and Appeals) (England)
Regulations 2009 ( S.I. 2009/2268 ), in regulation 4 (circumstances in which
proposals to alter a rateable value shown in a list may be made), in paragraph
(1)(b), at the end insert  “(but this is subject to paragraph 2ZA of Schedule
6 to the Act)” .

14.3

The amendment made by  subsection (1) (d) has effect in relation to a change
to a matter whether it occurs before or after that subsection comes into
force.

#### Multipliers

15

15.1

Schedule 7 to the Act (non-domestic rating multipliers) is amended as follows.

15.2

Before Part 1 insert—

########## Non-Domestic Rating Multipliers: England

########### Introduction

15.2.A1

This Part of this Schedule has effect to determine, in relation to England,
for each chargeable financial year—

15.2.A1.a

the non-domestic rating multiplier, and

15.2.A1.b

the small business non-domestic rating multiplier.

15.2.A2

In this Part—

15.2.A2.a

Chapter 2 makes provision about the calculation of the non-domestic rating
multiplier;

15.2.A2.b

Chapter 3 makes provision about the calculation of the small business non-
domestic rating multiplier;

15.2.A2.c

Chapter 4 makes provision about the making, and the giving of notice, of such
calculations;

15.2.A2.d

Chapter 5 makes provision about the interpretation of terms used in this Part;

15.2.A2.e

Chapter 6 makes provision about regulations under this Part.

########### The non-domestic rating multiplier

############ Revaluation years

15.2.A3

The non-domestic rating multiplier for a revaluation year is to be calculated
in accordance with the formula—

A × C × E D × F

############ Other years

15.2.A4

15.2.A4.1

The non-domestic rating multiplier for a chargeable financial year other than
a revaluation year is—

15.2.A4.1.a

the default amount, or

15.2.A4.1.b

if the Secretary of State makes an adjustment to that amount under  sub-
paragraph (3) , that amount as adjusted.

15.2.A4.2

The default amount is to be calculated in accordance with the formula—

A × C D

15.2.A4.3

The Secretary of State makes an adjustment to the default amount by adjusting
it to reflect the extent to which the Secretary of State’s last estimate of
the total mentioned in  paragraph A10 (6)  or  (7)  appears to the Secretary
of State to differ from the actual total.

########### The small business non-domestic rating multiplier

############ Revaluation years

15.2.A5

The small business non-domestic rating multiplier for a revaluation year is to
be calculated in accordance with the formula—

B × C × E D × F

############ Other years

15.2.A6

15.2.A6.1

The small business non-domestic rating multiplier for a chargeable financial
year other than a revaluation year is—

15.2.A6.1.a

the default amount, or

15.2.A6.1.b

if the Secretary of State makes an adjustment to that amount under  sub-
paragraph (3) , that amount as adjusted.

15.2.A6.2

The default amount is to be calculated in accordance with the formula—

B × C D

15.2.A6.3

The Secretary of State makes an adjustment to the default amount by adjusting
it to reflect the extent to which the Secretary of State’s last estimate of
the total mentioned in  paragraph A10 (6)  or  (7)  appears to the Secretary
of State to differ from the actual total.

########### Making and giving notice of calculations etc

15.2.A7

15.2.A7.1

The Secretary of State must—

15.2.A7.1.a

calculate the non-domestic rating multiplier and the small business non-
domestic rating multiplier for a chargeable financial year, and

15.2.A7.1.b

as soon as reasonably practicable after doing so, serve on each billing
authority a notice stating the multipliers as so calculated.

15.2.A7.2

A notice under  sub-paragraph (1) (b)  must show how any calculation has been
made and contain details of—

15.2.A7.2.a

any estimates that have been made under  paragraph A10 (6)  or  (7) ,
including the date determined under  paragraph A11 (3)  for the purpose of
making those estimates, and

15.2.A7.2.b

any adjustments that have been made under  paragraph A4 (3)  or  A6 (3)

15.2.A7.3

Where the chargeable financial year is one for which the Secretary of State
has calculated a figure for D under  paragraph A10 (5) (b) , the notice under
sub-paragraph (1) (b)  must contain that figure.

15.2.A8

A calculation made by the Secretary of State under  paragraph A7  is invalid
if it is made at a time when regulations under  paragraph A10 (4) (b)  have
not come into force which, if they had come into force, would be effective in
relation to the year.

15.2.A9

In calculating a multiplier a part of a whole (if any) is to be calculated to
three decimal places only.

########### Interpretation

15.2.A10

15.2.A10.1

This paragraph applies for the purposes of this Part of this Schedule.

15.2.A10.2

“A” is the non-domestic rating multiplier for the financial year preceding the
year concerned.

15.2.A10.3

“B” is the small business non-domestic rating multiplier for the financial
year preceding the year concerned.

15.2.A10.4

“C” is—

15.2.A10.4.a

the consumer prices index for September of the financial year preceding the
year concerned, or

15.2.A10.4.b

where the Treasury so provides by regulations in relation to the year and
multiplier concerned, a figure which is less than the index mentioned in
paragraph (a)  and which is specified in, or calculated in a manner specified
in, the regulations.

15.2.A10.5

“D” is—

15.2.A10.5.a

the consumer prices index for September of the financial year which precedes
that preceding the year concerned (“ the first year ”), or

15.2.A10.5.b

where the base month for the consumer prices index for September of the first
year differs from that for the index for September of the year which precedes
the year concerned (“ the second year ”), the figure which the Secretary of
State calculates would have been the consumer prices index for September of
the first year if the base month for that index had been the same as the base
month for the index for September of the second year.

15.2.A10.6

“E” is the number of whole pounds in the Secretary of State’s estimate of the
total of the appropriate rateable values of all appropriate hereditaments,
where—

15.2.A10.6.a

“appropriate rateable values” are those which will be shown in lists for the
last day of the financial year preceding the year concerned once all
alterations to those lists have been made;

15.2.A10.6.b

“appropriate hereditaments” are those which will be shown in lists for that
day once all alterations to those lists have been made.

15.2.A10.7

“F” is the number of whole pounds in the Secretary of State’s estimate of the
total of the appropriate rateable values of all appropriate hereditaments,
where—

15.2.A10.7.a

“appropriate rateable values” are those which will be shown in lists for the
first day of the financial year concerned once all alterations to those lists
have been made;

15.2.A10.7.b

“appropriate hereditaments” are those which will be shown in lists for that
day once all alterations to those lists have been made.

15.2.A10.8

“ Revaluation year ” means a chargeable financial year at the beginning of
which new lists must be compiled (see sections 41(2A) and 52(2A)).

15.2.A11

15.2.A11.1

References in  paragraph A10  to the consumer prices index are to—

15.2.A11.1.a

the general index of consumer prices (for all items) published by the
Statistics Board for the month concerned, or

15.2.A11.1.b

if that index is not published for the month concerned, any substituted index
or index figures published by the Board.

15.2.A11.2

For the purposes of  paragraph A10 (5) (b)  the base month for the consumer
prices index for September of a particular year is the month for which the
consumer prices index is taken to be 100 and by reference to which the index
for the September in question is calculated.

15.2.A11.3

Estimates under  paragraph A10 (6)  and  (7)  are to be made on the basis of
information available to the Secretary of State on such date as the Secretary
of State determines.

15.2.A11.4

The reference in  paragraph A10 (7) (a)  to rateable values which will be
shown in lists for the first day of the chargeable financial year concerned
once all alterations to those lists have been made includes a reference to
rateable values which will be shown in lists for a later day as a result of
any alterations of the lists because of the inaccuracy of the lists for that
first day.

########### Regulations

15.2.A12

15.2.A12.1

Regulations under  paragraph A10 (4) (b)  are to be made by statutory
instrument.

15.2.A12.2

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  paragraph A10 (4) (b)  is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of the House of Commons.

15.3

In paragraph 5 (interpretation)—

15.3.a

in sub-paragraph (9B), for “retail” substitute  “consumer” ;

15.3.b

after sub-paragraph (10) insert—

15.3.b.10A

In relation to England, in calculating a multiplier a part of a whole (if any)
is to be calculated to three decimal places only—

15.3.b.10A.a

adding one thousandth where (apart from this sub-paragraph) there would be
more than five ten-thousandths, and

15.3.b.10A.b

ignoring the ten-thousandths where (apart from this sub-paragraph) there would
be five, or less than five, ten-thousandths.

;

15.3.c

in sub-paragraph (11)—

15.3.c.i

at the beginning insert  “In relation to Wales,” ;

15.3.c.ii

omit paragraphs (a) and (b);

15.3.d

for sub-paragraph (13C) substitute—

15.3.d.13C

A statutory instrument containing regulations under sub-paragraph (13A) may
not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved
by resolution of Senedd Cymru.

15.4

In paragraph 6 (supplementary)—

15.4.a

omit sub-paragraph (4B);

15.4.b

in sub-paragraph (4C) omit “also”.

### Final provisions

#### Meaning of “the Act”

16

In this Act, “ the Act ” means the Local Government Finance Act 1988.

#### Consequential provision

17

17.1

In  the Schedule —

17.1.a

Part 1  contains provision consequential on sections  1  to  3 ;

17.1.b

Part 2  contains provision consequential on sections  5  and  6 ;

17.1.c

Part 3  contains provision consequential on  section 8 ;

17.1.d

Part 4  contains provision consequential on  sections 12  and  13 ;

17.1.e

Part 5  contains provision consequential on  section 15 .

17.2

The appropriate national authority may by regulations made by statutory
instrument make further provision that is consequential on this Act.

17.3

In  subsection (2) , “ the appropriate national authority ” means—

17.3.a

in relation to England, the Secretary of State;

17.3.b

in relation to Wales, the Welsh Ministers.

17.4

The power of the Secretary of State to make regulations under  subsection (2)
may, in particular, be exercised by amending, repealing, revoking or otherwise
modifying any provision made by or under an Act passed before, or in the same
session of Parliament as, this Act.

17.5

The power of the Welsh Ministers to make regulations under  subsection (2)
may, in particular, be exercised by amending, repealing, revoking or otherwise
modifying any provision made by or under primary legislation passed or made
before, or in the same session of Parliament as, this Act.

17.6

A statutory instrument containing regulations made by the Secretary of State
under  subsection (2)  that amend or repeal provision made by an Act may not
be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by
resolution of each House of Parliament.

17.7

Any other statutory instrument containing regulations made by the Secretary of
State under  subsection (2)  is subject to annulment in pursuance of a
resolution of either House of Parliament.

17.8

A statutory instrument containing regulations made by the Welsh Ministers
under  subsection (2)  that amend or repeal provision made by primary
legislation may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid
before and approved by a resolution of Senedd Cymru.

17.9

Any other statutory instrument containing regulations made by the Welsh
Ministers under  subsection (2)  is subject to annulment in pursuance of a
resolution made by Senedd Cymru.

17.10

In this section, “ primary legislation ” means—

17.10.a

an Act of Parliament;

17.10.b

a Measure or Act of the National Assembly for Wales or an Act of Senedd Cymru.

#### Extent

18

18.1

Subject to  subsection (2) , this Act extends to England and Wales.

18.2

Section 11  also extends to Northern Ireland.

#### Commencement and application

19

19.1

The following provisions come into force on the day on which this Act is
passed—

19.1.a

sections  1  to  6 ,  9 ,  14 ,  15 (3) (b)  and  (c) (i) ,  16 ,  17 (1) (a)
and  (2)  to  (10) ,  18 , and  20 ,

19.1.b

this section, and

19.1.c

Parts 1  and  2  of  the Schedule .

19.2

The amendments made by the following provisions have effect in relation to
financial years beginning on or after 1 April 2024—

19.2.a

sections  1  to  3 , and

19.2.b

Part 1  of  the Schedule .

19.3

Sections  7  and  11  come into force at the end of the period of two months
beginning with the day on which this Act is passed.

19.4

The following provisions come into force in accordance with provision
contained in regulations made by the appropriate national authority—

19.4.a

sections  10 ,  12  and  13 (2) ,  (4)  and  (6)  (and  section 13 (1)  so far
as relating to those subsections), and

19.4.b

paragraphs  39 (a) ,  46 ,  49 (c)  and  (d) ,  50  and  53 (a)  of  Part 4
of  the Schedule  (and  section 17 (1) (d)  and  paragraph 40  of  the
Schedule  so far as relating to those paragraphs).

19.5

Section  15 (3) (a) ,  (c) (ii),  (d)  and  (4)  (and  section 15 (1)  so far
as relating to those subsections) come into force in accordance with provision
contained in regulations by the Welsh Ministers.

19.6

The remaining provisions of this Act come into force in accordance with
provision contained in regulations made by the Secretary of State.

19.7

The appropriate national authority may by regulations make transitional,
transitory or saving provision in connection with the coming into force of any
provision of this Act.

19.8

The power to make regulations under  subsection (7)  includes power to make
different provision for different purposes.

19.9

A power to make regulations under this section is exercisable by statutory
instrument.

19.10

In this section—

      “ the appropriate national authority ” means—         in relation to
England, the Secretary of State;           in relation to Wales, the Welsh
Ministers;                 “ financial year ” means a period of 12 months
beginning with 1 April.

#### Short title

20

This Act may be cited as the Non-Domestic Rating Act 2023.

Consequential provision

Section 17

##### Provision consequential on sections 

###### Consequential amendments of the Act

1

The Act is amended as follows.

2

In section 44A (partly occupied hereditaments)—

2.a

in subsection (1)—

2.a.i

after “to apportion” insert  “both” ;

2.a.ii

after “rateable value of the hereditament” insert  “, and (where relevant) G
as regards the hereditament,” ;

2.a.iii

after “the apportionment” insert  “, or apportionments,” ;

2.b

after subsection (2) insert—

2.b.2A

The reference in subsection (1) to G as regards the hereditament is a
reference to G calculated in accordance with  Schedule 4ZA  as regards the
hereditament for the day on which the authority makes its requirement.

;

2.c

in subsection (5), after paragraph (d) insert—

2.c.e

paragraph 3  of  Schedule 4ZA  beginning, or ceasing, to apply in relation to
the hereditament.

;

2.d

in subsection (6)(b), in sub-paragraph (ii), for “section 45A” substitute  “
paragraph 2  of  Schedule 4ZB ” ;

2.e

for subsection (7) substitute—

2.e.7

In relation to any day for which an apportionment is applicable,  Schedule 4ZA
has effect as regards the hereditament as if for  paragraph 10 (2)  there were
substituted—

2.e.7.2

“A” is—

2.e.7.2.a

where the day concerned is a day to which  paragraph 3  applies, such part of
the rateable value shown for the day under section 42(4) as regards the
hereditament as is assigned by a relevant apportionment to the occupied part
of the hereditament minus such part of G (if any) as is so assigned;

2.e.7.2.b

in any other case, such part of the rateable value shown for the day under
section 42(4) as regards the hereditament as is assigned by a relevant
apportionment to the occupied part of the hereditament.

2.e.7.2A

In  sub-paragraph (2) , a “ relevant apportionment ” means an apportionment
under section 44A(1) which relates to the hereditament and is treated for the
purposes of that section as applicable for the day.

;

2.f

in subsection (8)—

2.f.i

in paragraph (b), in sub-paragraph (ii), for “section 45A” substitute  “
paragraph 2  of  Schedule 4ZB ” ;

2.f.ii

in paragraph (c), for “an order under section 45(4A) is” substitute
“regulations under  paragraph 1 (2)  of  Schedule 4ZB  are” ;

2.g

for subsection (9) substitute—

2.g.9

In relation to any day for which an apportionment is applicable,  Schedule 4ZA
has effect as regards the hereditament as if for  paragraph 10 (2)  there were
substituted—

2.g.9.2

“A” is the sum of the occupied amount and the unoccupied amount.

2.g.9.2A

The occupied amount is—

2.g.9.2A.a

where the day concerned is a day to which  paragraph 3  applies, such part of
the rateable value shown for the day under section 42(4) as regards the
hereditament as is assigned by a relevant apportionment to the occupied part
of the hereditament minus such part of G (if any) as is so assigned;

2.g.9.2A.b

in any other case, such part of the rateable value shown for the day under
section 42(4) as regards the hereditament as is assigned by a relevant
apportionment to the occupied part of the hereditament.

2.g.9.2B

The unoccupied amount is—

2.g.9.2B.a

where the occupied amount is determined in accordance with sub-paragraph
(2A)(a), such part of the rateable value shown for the day under section 42(4)
as regards the hereditament as is assigned by a relevant apportionment to the
unoccupied part of the hereditament minus such part of G as is so assigned, or

2.g.9.2B.b

where the occupied amount is determined in accordance with sub-paragraph
(2A)(b), such part of the rateable value as is assigned by a relevant
apportionment to the unoccupied part of the hereditament,

divided by the number prescribed by regulations under  paragraph 3 (9)  of
Schedule 4ZB  (for the purposes of  paragraph 1 (2)  of that Schedule) as it
has effect in relation to the hereditament.

2.g.9.2C

In  sub-paragraphs (2A)  and  (2B) , a “ relevant apportionment ” means an
apportionment under section 44A(1) which relates to the hereditament and is
treated for the purposes of that section as applicable for the day.

3

In section 47 (discretionary relief)—

3.a

in subsection (1)(b)—

3.a.i

omit “sections 43(4) to (6B) and 44 above, sections 45(4) to (4D) and 46
above,”;

3.a.ii

for “Schedule 7A” substitute  “Schedule  4ZA ,  4ZB  or 7A” ;

3.b

in subsection (5A), for “none of section 43(6) above, section 43(6B) above and
subsection (5B) below applies” substitute  “neither paragraph  2  of  Schedule
4ZA  nor subsection (5B) of this section apply” ;

3.c

in subsection (10) for “section 45A” substitute  “ paragraph 2  of  Schedule
4ZB ” .

4

In section 57A (transitional provision for 2005 onwards: England)—

4.a

in subsection (2)(a) for “, 45A, 54 or 54ZA” substitute  “or 54” ;

4.b

for subsection (3) substitute—

4.b.3

The provisions are that the chargeable amount is to be such amount as is found
in accordance with rules prescribed under this section instead of in
accordance with Schedule  4ZA ,  4ZB  or  5A  (as the case may be).

;

4.c

in subsection (7), for “whose rateable value exceeds” to the end substitute
“as regards which A exceeds, and those as regards which A does not exceed” ;

4.d

after that subsection insert—

4.d.7A

For the purposes of subsection (7)—

4.d.7A.a

“ A ” has the meaning it has in Schedule  4ZA  or  4ZB  (as the case may be);

4.d.7A.b

a locally listed hereditament is a hereditament for the time being shown in a
local non-domestic rating list.

5

In section 58 (special provision for 1995 onwards)—

5.a

in subsection (2)(a), for “, 45A, 54 or 54ZA” substitute  “or 54” ;

5.b

for subsection (3) substitute—

5.b.3

The provisions are that the chargeable amount is to be such amount as is found
in accordance with rules prescribed under this section instead of in
accordance with Schedule  4ZA ,  4ZB  or  5A  (as the case may be).

6

In section 63A (disclosure of Revenue and Customs information), in subsection
(4)(b), for “, 54 or 54ZA” substitute  “or 54” .

7

In section 67 (interpretation: other provisions)—

7.a

after subsection (1) insert—

7.a.1A

Unless the context otherwise requires, references to ratepayers are to
ratepayers within the meaning of section 43, 45 or 54 (as the case may be).

;

7.b

for subsection (7) substitute—

7.b.7

Any paragraph of  Schedule 4ZA ,  4ZB  or  5A  applies on a particular day if
(and only if) it applies immediately before the day ends.

8

In section 143 (orders and regulations)—

8.a

in subsection (3), for “(3ZA)” substitute  “(3C)” ;

8.b

omit subsections (3ZA) to (3B);

8.c

before subsection (8) insert—

8.c.7A

The power to make regulations under  paragraph 3 (3)  or  6 (3)  of  Schedule
4ZA  is exercisable by statutory instrument, and a statutory instrument
containing any such regulations may not be made—

8.c.7A.a

in the case of regulations relating to England, unless a draft of the
instrument has been laid before and approved by resolution of each House of
Parliament;

8.c.7A.b

in the case of regulations relating to Wales, unless a draft of the instrument
has been laid before and approved by resolution of Senedd Cymru.

8.c.7B

The power to make regulations under paragraph  8 (1) (d) (ii)  or  10 (9)  of
Schedule 4ZA  is exercisable by statutory instrument, and a statutory
instrument containing any such regulations may not be made unless a draft of
the instrument has been laid before and approved by resolution of each House
of Parliament.

8.c.7C

The power to make regulations under paragraph  1 (2)  or  3 (9)  of  Schedule
4ZB  is exercisable by statutory instrument, and a statutory instrument
containing any such regulations may not be made—

8.c.7C.a

in the case of regulations relating to England, unless a draft of the
instrument has been laid before and approved by resolution of each House of
Parliament;

8.c.7C.b

in the case of regulations relating to Wales, unless a draft of the instrument
has been laid before and approved by resolution of Senedd Cymru.

8.c.7D

The power to make regulations under  paragraph 3 (6)  of  Schedule 4ZB  is
exercisable by statutory instrument, and a statutory instrument containing any
such regulations may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been
laid before and approved by resolution of each House of Parliament.

8.c.7E

The power to make regulations under  paragraph 3 (4)  of  Schedule 5A  is
exercisable by statutory instrument, and a statutory instrument containing any
such regulations may not be made—

8.c.7E.a

in the case of regulations relating to England, unless a draft of the
instrument has been laid before and approved by resolution of each House of
Parliament;

8.c.7E.b

in the case of regulations relating to Wales, unless a draft of the instrument
has been laid before and approved by resolution of Senedd Cymru.

8.c.7F

The power to make regulations under paragraph  6 (8)  of  Schedule 5A  is
exercisable by statutory instrument, and a statutory instrument containing any
such regulations may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been
laid before and approved by resolution of each House of Parliament.

9

In Schedule 7 (multipliers)—

9.a

in paragraph 3A(2)(a)(ii), for “section 43(4A) to (4D) above” substitute  “
paragraph 4  of  Schedule 4ZA ” ;

9.b

in paragraph 4A(2)(a)(ii), for “section 43(4A) to (4D) above” substitute  “
paragraph 4  of  Schedule 4ZA ” .

###### Consequential amendments of other Acts

10

In the Localism Act 2011 omit section 70 (small business relief).

11

In the Postal Services Act 2011, in Schedule 12 (minor and consequential
amendments) omit paragraph 131 and the italic heading before it.

12

In the Corporation Tax Act 2010, in Schedule 1 (minor and consequential
amendments) omit paragraph 207.

13

13.1

The Business Rate Supplements Act 2009 is amended as follows.

13.2

In section 11 (liability of non-domestic ratepayers), in subsection (3)(a),
for “section 45A of that Act (empty properties: zero rating for charities and
amateur sports clubs)” substitute  “ paragraph 2  of  Schedule 4ZB  to that
Act (empty properties: charitable rate relief)” .

13.3

In section 12 (rateable value condition)—

13.3.a

in subsection (5), after “apportionment” in both places it occurs substitute
“or apportionments” ;

13.3.b

for subsection (9) substitute—

13.3.b.9

The rateable value of a hereditament on a day is—

13.3.b.9.a

in a case where the day on which  paragraph 3  of  Schedule 4ZA  to the Local
Government Finance Act 1988 applies in relation to the hereditament, the
rateable value of the hereditament shown for that day in the local non-
domestic rating list maintained for the billing authority in whose area the
hereditament is situated minus G (within the meaning of that Schedule), or

13.3.b.9.b

in any other case, the rateable value of the hereditament shown for that day
in the local non-domestic rating list maintained for the billing authority in
whose area the hereditament is situated.

13.4

In section 13 (chargeable amount)—

13.4.a

in subsection (2), for “(3)” substitute  “(2A)” ;

13.4.b

after subsection (2) insert—

13.4.b.2A

If  paragraph 2  of  Schedule 4ZA  to the 1988 Act (charitable rate relief)
applies, the amount is calculated by using the formula—

A × B C × 5

;

13.4.c

in subsection (3), for “section 43(4B) of the 1988 Act (small businesses)”
substitute  “ paragraph 4  of  Schedule 4ZA  to the 1988 Act (small business
rate relief)” ;

13.4.d

omit subsection (3A);

13.4.e

in subsection (3B), for “section 43(4I) of the 1988 Act (public lavatories)
applies” substitute  “any of paragraphs  6  (heat networks rate relief),  7
(public lavatories rate relief) or  8  (rural rate relief) of  Schedule 4ZA
to the 1988 Act apply” ;

13.4.f

omit subsections (4) and (5);

13.4.g

for subsection (6), for “section 45(4A) of” substitute  “ paragraph 1 (2)  of
Schedule 4ZB  to” ;

13.4.h

omit subsection (6A);

13.4.i

in subsection (9) for “section 43(4B), (4F), (4I), (6) or (6B) or 45(4A) or
(4D) of” substitute  “paragraph  2 ,  4 ,  6 ,  7  or  8  of  Schedule 4ZA  or
paragraph 1 (2)  of  Schedule 4ZB  to” .

13.5

In section 14 (chargeable amount: supplementary)—

13.5.a

for subsection (5) substitute—

13.5.a.5

“ E ” has the meaning it has for the purposes of  Schedule 4ZA  to the 1988
Act.

13.5.a.5A

“ N ” has the meaning it has for the purposes of  Schedule 4ZB  to the 1998
Act.

;

13.5.b

in subsection 9(b), for “an order under section 45(4A) of the 1988 Act is”
substitute  “regulations under  paragraph 1 (2)  of  Schedule 4ZB  to the 1988
Act are” .

14

14.1

The Local Government Act 2003 is amended as follows.

14.2

In section 50 (approval by ballot of business improvement district proposals),
in subsection (6), for the words from “that shown” to the end substitute

—

14.2.a

in a case where the day of the ballot is a day on which  paragraph 3  of
Schedule 4ZA  to the Local Government Finance Act 1988 applies in relation to
the hereditament, the rateable value shown for that day under section 42(4) of
that Act as regards the hereditament minus G (within the meaning of that
Schedule), or

14.2.b

in any other case, the rateable value shown for that day under section 42(4)
of that Act as regards the hereditament.

14.3

Omit section 61 (small business relief).

14.4

In section 63 (rural settlement lists) omit subsection (2).

14.5

In section 64 (relief for registered community amateur sports clubs) omit
subsection (1).

15

In the Postal Services Act 2000, in Schedule 8 (amendment of enactments) omit
paragraph 21 and the italic heading before it.

16

In the Local Government and Rating Act 1997, in Schedule 1 (relief from non-
domestic rates for general stores etc in rural settlements: England and Wales)
omit paragraphs 2, 5 and 6.

17

In the National Heritage Act 1980, in Schedule 1 (the trustees of the National
Heritage Memorial Fund), in paragraph 2 (status), for “Sections 43(6), 45A and
47 of” substitute  “Section 47 of, and  paragraph 2  of  Schedule 4ZA ,
paragraph 2  of  Schedule 4ZB  and  paragraph 2  of  Schedule 5A  to,” .

###### Repeals of spent and superseded Acts

18

18.1

The following Acts are repealed—

18.1.a

the Non-Domestic Rating (Public Lavatories) Act 2021;

18.1.b

the Telecommunications Infrastructure (Relief from Non-Domestic Rates) Act
2018;

18.1.c

the Rating (Empty Properties) Act 2007;

18.1.d

the Rating (Former Agricultural Premises and Rural Shops) Act 2001.

18.2

The repeal of the Rating (Empty Properties) Act 2007 does not affect the
amendments made by paragraph 4 of the Schedule to that Act.

##### Provision consequential on sections 

19

The Non-Domestic Rating (Chargeable Amounts) (England) Regulations 2022 ( S.I.
2022/1403 ) are amended as follows.

20

In regulation 3 (interpretation), in paragraph (1) omit the definitions of—

20.a

“early relevant year”;

20.b

“final relevant year”.

21

21.1

Regulation 4 (relevant period, relevant day and relevant year) is amended as
follows.

21.2

In paragraph (1), for “2028” substitute  “2026” .

21.3

In paragraph (3), for “, 2025 or 2027” substitute  “or 2025” .

21.4

Omit paragraphs (4) and (5).

22

In regulation 6 (special authorities), in paragraph (1), for “an early”
substitute  “a” .

23

23.1

Regulation 7 (notional chargeable amount: early relevant years) is amended as
follows.

23.2

In the heading, omit “: early relevant years”.

23.3

In paragraph (1), for “an early” substitute  “a” .

24

In regulation 9 (base liability for early relevant years subsequent to
2023-24), in the heading, for “early relevant years subsequent to 2023-24”
substitute  “2024-25 and 2025-26” .

25

25.1

Regulation 10 (appropriate fraction) is amended as follows.

25.2

In paragraph (1), for “an early” substitute  “a” .

25.3

In paragraph (7), in sub-paragraph (b), in the opening words, omit “early”.

26

In regulation 11 (application of regulation 12), in paragraph (1), in the
words before sub-paragraph (a), for “an early” substitute  “a” .

27

In regulation 12 (rules for determining chargeable amount: early relevant
years), in the heading, omit “: early relevant years”.

28

Omit regulation 14 (application of regulation 15).

29

Omit regulation 15 (rules for determining chargeable amounts: final relevant
year).

30

In regulation 16 (change in rateable value on 1st April 2023), in paragraph
(2)—

30.a

for “: early relevant years),” substitute  “) and” ;

30.b

omit “and 15 (rules for determining chargeable amount: final relevant year)”.

31

31.1

The Schedule (splits and mergers) is amended as follows.

31.2

In paragraph 2 (rules for determination of chargeable amount for new
hereditament: splits on 1st April 2023), in sub-paragraph (1), omit “early”.

31.3

In paragraph 3 (rules for determination of chargeable amount for new
hereditament: mergers on 1st April 2023), in sub-paragraph (1) omit “early”.

31.4

In paragraph 4 (rules for determining chargeable amount for new hereditament:
splits after 1st April 2023 in an early relevant year)—

31.4.a

in the heading, omit “in an early relevant year”;

31.4.b

in sub-paragraph (1)—

31.4.b.i

in the words before paragraph (a), omit “early”;

31.4.b.ii

in paragraph (b), omit “and in an early relevant year”.

31.5

In paragraph 5 (rules for determining chargeable amount for new hereditament:
mergers after 1st April 2023 in an early relevant year)—

31.5.a

in the heading, omit “in an early relevant year”;

31.5.b

in sub-paragraph (1)—

31.5.b.i

in the words before paragraph (a), omit “early”;

31.5.b.ii

in paragraph (b), omit “in an early relevant year”.

31.6

In paragraph 6 (changes in the value of new hereditament: early relevant year
of creation)—

31.6.a

in the heading, omit “early”;

31.6.b

in sub-paragraphs (1) and (3), for “an early” substitute  “a” .

31.7

In paragraph 7 (notional chargeable amount for new hereditament: early
relevant years)—

31.7.a

in the heading, omit “: early relevant years”;

31.7.b

in sub-paragraph (1) for “an early” substitute  “a” .

31.8

In paragraph 8 (base liability for the early relevant year after the year in
which the creation day falls)—

31.8.a

in the heading, omit “early”;

31.8.b

in sub-paragraph (1), for “an early” substitute  “the” .

31.9

In paragraph 9 (base liability for subsequent early relevant years for new
hereditament)—

31.9.a

in the heading, omit “early”;

31.9.b

in sub-paragraph (1), omit “early”.

31.10

In paragraph 10 (rateable value: hereditament split or merged after 1st April
2023), in sub-paragraph (2)—

31.10.a

after paragraph (a) insert  “and” ;

31.10.b

omit paragraph (c) and the “and” preceding it.

##### Provision consequential on section 

32

The Act is amended as follows.

33

In section 53 (contents of central lists)—

33.a

in the heading, at the end insert  “for Wales” ;

33.b

in subsection (1)—

33.b.i

for “Secretary of State” substitute  “Welsh Ministers” ;

33.b.ii

after “hereditament” insert  “in Wales” ;

33.c

in subsection (2)—

33.c.i

after “list” insert  “compiled for Wales” ;

33.c.ii

after “hereditament” insert  “in Wales” ;

33.d

in subsection (5)—

33.d.i

after “list” insert  “compiled for Wales” ;

33.d.ii

for “Secretary of State” substitute  “Welsh Ministers” .

34

In section 54 (central rating: liability) before subsection (8) insert—

34.7A

Where, in a central non-domestic rating list compiled for England, more than
one description of relevant non-domestic hereditament is shown against the
ratepayer’s name for a chargeable day the reference in subsection (2)(a) to
finding the chargeable amount for each chargeable day is to be read as a
reference to finding the chargeable amount for each chargeable day in respect
of each description of hereditament shown against the ratepayer’s name for
that day.

35

In section 63A (disclosure of Revenue and Customs information), in subsection
(4)(b), after “section” insert  “52A,” .

36

In section 65A (Crown property), in subsection (7), for “power conferred by
section” insert  “powers conferred by sections 52A(4) or” .

37

In section 67 (interpretation: other provisions)—

37.a

after subsection (8) insert—

37.a.8A

In relation to England—

37.a.8A.a

any reference to a hereditament required to be shown for a day in a central
non-domestic rating list includes a reference to a hereditament which on that
day falls within a description required to be shown for the day in the list,
and

37.a.8A.b

a hereditament is to be treated as shown in a central non-domestic rating list
for a day if on that day—

37.a.8A.b.i

it falls within a description of hereditament shown for the day in the list in
relation to a person, and

37.a.8A.b.ii

it is occupied or (if unoccupied) owned by that person.

37.a.8B

In relation to England, a hereditament falls within a description or class on
a particular day if (and only if) it falls within the description or class
immediately before the day ends.

;

37.b

in subsection (9), at the beginning insert  “In relation to Wales,” ;

37.c

in subsection (12), after “non-domestic rate,” insert  “or prevent a person or
description of hereditament being shown in a list by virtue of a direction
under section 52A,” .

38

In  Schedule 5A  (inserted by  section 3  of this Act), after  paragraph 7
insert—

38.8

Where, in a central non-domestic rating list compiled for England, more than
one description of relevant non-domestic hereditament is shown against the
ratepayer’s name for a chargeable day—

38.8.a

the reference in  paragraph 1  to the chargeable amount for a chargeable day
is to be read as a reference to the chargeable amount for a chargeable day in
respect of a description of hereditament shown against the ratepayer’s name
for that day, and

38.8.b

paragraph 6  of this Schedule has effect as if for  sub-paragraph (2)  there
were substituted—

38.8.b.2

“A” is—

38.8.b.2.a

where the day concerned is a day to which  paragraph 3  applies, the rateable
value shown for the day in the list against the ratepayer’s name in relation
to that description of hereditament minus G;

38.8.b.2.b

in any other case, the rateable value shown for the day in the list against
the ratepayer’s name in relation to that description of hereditament.

##### Provision consequential on 

###### Consequential amendments of the Act

39

In section 143 of the Act (orders and regulations)—

39.a

after subsection (9AZA) insert—

39.a.9AZB

The power of the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs to make
regulations under  paragraph 5FA  of Schedule 9 is exercisable by statutory
instrument, and no such regulations may be made by the Commissioners unless a
draft of the regulations has been laid before and approved by a resolution of
each House of Parliament.

;

39.b

in subsection (9AA)—

39.b.i

for “an order under paragraph 5G” substitute “regulations under  paragraph 5FB
“;

39.b.ii

for “order” in the second place it occurs substitute  “regulations” ;

39.b.iii

for “it” substitute  “the regulations” .

40

Schedule 9 to the Act (administration) is amended as follows.

41

Before paragraph 5, in the italic heading, at the end insert  “ to be provided
to valuation officer or billing authority: Wales ” .

42

In paragraph 5, in sub-paragraph (1), in the words before paragraph (a), after
“hereditament” insert  “situated in Wales” .

43

Before paragraph 5A insert the italic heading—

Information to be provided to valuation officer or billing authority:
penalties: Wales

.

44

Before paragraph 5C insert the italic heading—

Appeals of decisions of valuation officer or billing authority: Wales

.

45

In paragraph 5C, for sub-paragraph (7) substitute—

45.7

In this paragraph “ valuation tribunal ” means a valuation tribunal
established under paragraph 1 of Schedule 11.

46

After paragraph 5C insert —

########## Supplementary

46.5CA

46.5CA.1

Subject to  sub-paragraph (2) , any penalty imposed under  paragraph 5ZA (1) ,
(2)  or  (7)  may be recovered by the officer of His Majesty’s Revenue and
Customs concerned as a civil debt due to the officer.

46.5CA.2

No claim to recover any such penalty may be made before the end of the period
within which the penalty must be paid.

47

After  paragraph 5CA  (inserted by  paragraph 46 ) insert—

47.5CB

47.5CB.1

Subject to  sub-paragraph (2) , any penalty imposed under  sub-paragraph (1)
or  (3)  of  paragraph 5ZC  or  sub-paragraph (3)  of  paragraph 5ZD  may be
recovered by the valuation officer concerned as a civil debt due to the
officer.

47.5CB.2

No claim to recover any such penalty may be made before the end of the period
within which the penalty must be paid.

48

In paragraph 5E, in sub-paragraph (1), for “paragraph” substitute  “
paragraphs 5ZC ,  5ZD  or” .

49

In paragraph 5F—

49.a

before sub-paragraph (1) insert—

49.a.A1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision in relation to
notices served under  paragraphs 4M  and  5ZC .

;

49.b

in sub-paragraph (1), for the words from the beginning to “Wales,” substitute
“The Welsh Ministers” ;

49.c

after that sub-paragraph insert—

49.c.1A

The Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs may by regulations
make provision in relation to notices served under  paragraph 5ZA .

49.c.1B

The Commissioners for His Majesty's Revenue and Customs must consult the Welsh
Ministers before making regulations under  sub-paragraph (1A)  if and to the
extent that the regulations make provision in relation to Wales.

;

49.d

in subsection (2), in paragraph (a), for “a valuation officer” substitute  “an
officer of His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (including a valuation officer)”
.

50

After paragraph 5F insert—

50.5FA

50.5FA.1

The Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs may by regulations
amend  paragraph 5ZA  to increase or decrease the amount of any penalty under
that paragraph.

50.5FA.2

The Commissioners for His Majesty's Revenue and Customs must consult the Welsh
Ministers before making regulations under  sub-paragraph (1)  if and to the
extent that the regulations make provision in relation to Wales.

51

After  paragraph 5FA  (inserted by  paragraph 50 ) insert—

51.5FB

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend  paragraph 5ZC  or  5ZD  to
increase or decrease the amount of any penalty under those paragraphs.

52

In paragraph 5G, for the words from the beginning to “Wales,” substitute  “The
Welsh Ministers” .

53

In paragraph 5H—

53.a

for “a valuation officer” substitute  “an officer of His Majesty’s Revenue and
Customs (including a valuation officer)” ;

53.b

for “5” substitute  “ 4M , 5,  5ZA ,  5ZC ” .

###### Consequential amendments of the Business Rate Supplements Act 2009

54

In Schedule 2 to the Business Rate Supplements Act 2009 (BRS-BID
arrangements), in paragraph 8 (information), in sub-paragraph (2)—

54.a

in paragraph (c), at the end insert  “as they had effect before the coming
into force of  section 13  of, and  Part 4  of  the Schedule  to, the Non-
Domestic Rating Act 2023” ;

54.b

in paragraph (d), at the end insert

that—

54.b.a

had effect before the coming into force of  section 13  of, and  Part 4  of
the Schedule  to, the Non-Domestic Rating Act 2023 (whether or not the
provision is still in force), or

54.b.b

that could have been made before the coming into force of that section and
Part of that Schedule.

###### Repeal of the Non-Domestic Rating (Preparation for Digital Services) Act 2019

55

The Non-Domestic Rating (Preparation for Digital Services) Act 2019 is
repealed.

##### Provision consequential on section 

56

In Schedule 7 to the Act, Part 1 (non-domestic rating multipliers) is amended
in accordance with paragraphs  57  to  66 .

57

In the heading to that Part, at the end insert  “: Wales” .

58

58.1

In paragraph 1 (introduction), sub-paragraph (1) is amended as follows.

58.2

After “has effect to determine” insert  “, in relation to Wales,” .

58.3

Omit “and, in relation to England, the small business non-domestic rating
multiplier”.

59

Omit paragraph 2 (general provisions).

60

Omit paragraphs 3 and 3A (non-domestic rating multipliers in relation to
England: non-revaluation years).

61

In paragraph 3B (non-domestic rating multiplier in relation to Wales: non-
revaluation years), in sub-paragraph (1) omit “In relation to Wales,”.

62

Omit paragraphs 4 and 4A (non-domestic rating multipliers in relation to
England: revaluation years).

63

In paragraph 4B (non-domestic rating multiplier in relation to Wales:
revaluation years) omit “In relation to Wales,”.

64

64.1

Paragraph 5 (interpretation) is amended as follows.

64.2

In sub-paragraph (1), for “3 to 4B” substitute  “3B and 4B” .

64.3

Omit sub-paragraph (2).

64.4

In sub-paragraph (2A) omit “In relation to Wales,”.

64.5

Omit sub-paragraphs (3) to (5).

64.6

For sub-paragraph (5A) substitute—

64.6.5A

B is the consumer prices index for September of the financial year preceding
the year concerned.

64.6.5AA

C is the consumer prices index for September of the financial year which
precedes that preceding the year concerned.

64.7

In sub-paragraph (6), in the words before paragraph (a) omit “the Secretary of
State’s or, as the case may be,”.

64.8

In sub-paragraph (7), in the words before paragraph (a) omit “the Secretary of
State’s or, as the case may be,”.

64.9

Omit sub-paragraphs (8) and (9).

64.10

In sub-paragraph (9A), for “(5A) and (5B)” substitute  “ (5A)  to (5B)” ;

64.11

In sub-paragraph (10) omit “to the Secretary of State on such date as he
determines or, as the case may be,”.

64.12

Omit sub-paragraph (10A) (inserted by  section 15 (3) (b)  of this Act).

64.13

Omit sub-paragraphs (12) and (13).

64.14

In sub-paragraph (13A), in the words before paragraph (a), after “(5A),”
insert  “ (5AA) ,” .

65

65.1

Paragraph 6 (supplementary) is amended as follows.

65.2

Omit sub-paragraph (1).

65.3

In paragraph (1A) omit “In relation to Wales,”.

65.4

Omit sub-paragraph (2).

65.5

Omit sub-paragraphs (4) and (4A).

65.6

Omit sub-paragraph (5).

66

Omit paragraphs 7 and 8 (special provision for 1990-95).

67

67.1

In Schedule 7 to the Act, Part 2 (special authority’s multipliers) is amended
as follows.

67.2

In paragraph 9 (non-domestic rating multiplier), in sub-paragraph (4), in the
definition of “A”—

67.2.a

omit “so far as relating to England”;

67.2.b

for “Part 1” substitute  “ Part A1 ” .

67.3

In paragraph 9A (small business non-domestic rating multiplier)—

67.3.a

in sub-paragraph (2)(b), for “Part 1” substitute  “ Part A1 ” ;

67.3.b

in sub-paragraph (2)(c) omit “, so far as relating to England,”.

68

In section 140(2) of the Act (separate administration in England and Wales)—

68.a

omit the “, and” at the end of paragraph (a);

68.b

omit paragraph (b).

69

In section 143 of the Act (orders and regulations), for subsection (9)
substitute—

69.9

The powers to make regulations under paragraph  A10 (4) (b)  or 5(13A) of
Schedule 7 are exercisable as mentioned in that Schedule.

