Title: Northern Ireland (Executive Formation and Organ and Tissue Donation) Act 2023
Date: 2023-04-05
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/4

## Northern Ireland (Executive Formation and Organ and Tissue Donation) Act 2023

      B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Extension of period for making Ministerial appointments

1

1.1

The Northern Ireland (Executive Formation etc) Act 2022 is amended as follows.

1.2

In section 1—

1.2.a

in the title, omit “by six weeks”;

1.2.b

for “ 19 January 2023 ” (as inserted by the Northern Ireland (Extension of
Period for Making Ministerial Appointments) Regulations 2022 ( S.I. 2022/1296
)) substitute  “18 January 2024” .

1.3

After section 1 insert—

######### Power to propose date for a poll

1.3.1A

1.3.1A.1

The Northern Ireland Act 1998 has effect as if, during the current post-
election period, section 32 (extraordinary elections) were amended as follows—

1.3.1A.1.a

after subsection (3A), insert—

1.3.1A.1.a.3AA

At any time before the end of the period mentioned in section 16A(3), the
Secretary of State may, if the offices mentioned there have not yet been
filled, propose a date for the poll for the election of the next Assembly.

;

1.3.1A.1.b

in subsection (3B), omit “16A(3) or”;

1.3.1A.1.c

in subsection (3D)(b), after “(3)” insert  “, (3AA)” ;

1.3.1A.1.d

in subsection (3E)(b), after “subsection” insert  “(3AA) or” ;

1.3.1A.1.e

in subsection (3F), in the words before paragraph (a), after “subsection”
insert  “(3AA) or” ;

1.3.1A.1.f

in subsection (3G)—

1.3.1A.1.f.i

in the words before paragraph (a), after “(3)” insert  “, (3AA)” ;

1.3.1A.1.f.ii

after paragraph (a), insert—

1.3.1A.1.f.ii.aa

in the case of a date proposed under subsection (3AA), withdraw the proposal
before the end of the period referred to in section 16A(3), or

;

1.3.1A.1.g

in subsection (4), in the words before paragraph (a), after “(3)” insert  “,
(3AA)” .

1.3.1A.2

In this section, “ the current post-election period ” has the meaning given in
section 1.

1.4

Omit section 2.

### Organ and tissue donation in Northern Ireland: procedure for regulations defining permitted material

2

2.1

Section 52(4B) of the Human Tissue Act 2004 (draft affirmative procedure for
regulations defining permitted material for the purposes of deemed consent to
transplantation of human tissue in Northern Ireland) does not apply during the
relevant period.

2.2

Regulations made under section 3(9A) of that Act during the relevant period
are subject to negative resolution within the meaning given by section 41(6)
of the Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland)  1954 (c. 33 (N.I.)) .

2.3

In this section, the “ relevant period ” means the period—

2.3.a

beginning when this Act is passed, and

2.3.b

ending with the next day on which the Presiding Officer and deputies are in
post having been elected under section 39(1) of the Northern Ireland Act 1998.

### Extent, commencement and short title

3

3.1

Section 1 and this section extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern
Ireland.

3.2

Section 2 extends to Northern Ireland only.

3.3

This Act comes into force on the day on which it is passed.

3.4

This Act may be cited as the Northern Ireland (Executive Formation and Organ
and Tissue Donation) Act 2023.

