Title: Northern Ireland Budget Act 2023
Date: 2024-04-02
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/3

## Northern Ireland Budget Act 2023

B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice
and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Year ending 31 March 2023

#### Use of resources

1

1.1

For the purposes of section 6(1) of the 2001 Act, this section and section  2
authorise the use of resources in the year ending 31 March 2023.

1.2

In that year, the use of resources by the persons mentioned in subsection  (3)
is authorised up to the amount of £26,656,975,000.

1.3

The persons are—

1.3.a

the Northern Ireland departments;

1.3.b

the Food Standards Agency;

1.3.c

the Northern Ireland Assembly Commission;

1.3.d

the Northern Ireland Audit Office;

1.3.e

the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation;

1.3.f

the Northern Ireland Public Services Ombudsman;

1.3.g

the Public Prosecution Service for Northern Ireland.

1.4

Of the amount authorised by subsection  (2) —

1.4.a

£24,242,977,000 is authorised for use for current purposes, and

1.4.b

£2,413,998,000 is authorised for use for capital purposes.

#### Limits on use of resources

2

2.1

Schedule 1 contains estimates relating to the persons mentioned in section  1
(3)  for the year ending 31 March 2023 (“Schedule 1 estimates”).

2.2

In the year ending 31 March 2023, a person mentioned in section  1 (3)  may
use resources in accordance with subsections  (3)  to  (7)  and the Schedule 1
estimate relating to that person.

2.3

The person may use resources for the purposes specified in Part 2 of the
estimate; but this is subject to subsections  (4)  to  (7) .

2.4

Where Part 1 of the estimate authorises the use of net resources for current
purposes, the person—

2.4.a

may use resources up to the amount so authorised for current purposes;

2.4.b

must not use those resources for capital purposes.

2.5

Where Part 1 of the estimate authorises the use of net resources for capital
purposes, the person—

2.5.a

may use resources up to the amount so authorised for capital purposes;

2.5.b

must not use those resources for current purposes.

2.6

Where Part 1 of the estimate authorises the use of net resources in relation
to a category of expenditure, the person—

2.6.a

may use resources up to the amount so authorised for a purpose identified in
the estimate as falling within that category of expenditure;

2.6.b

must not use those resources for any other purpose.

2.7

The categories of expenditure are—

2.7.a

expenditure subject to a departmental expenditure limit;

2.7.b

annually managed expenditure;

2.7.c

non-budget expenditure.

2.8

The authorisations in this section and in section  1  supersede those made—

2.8.a

by section 6 of the  Budget Act (Northern Ireland) 2022 (c. 6 (N.I.)) , and

2.8.b

under section 7 of the 2001 Act for the year ending 31 March 2023,

which total £23,357,015,000.

#### Issue of sum out of the Consolidated Fund

3

The Department may issue out of the Consolidated Fund and apply to the service
of the year ending 31 March 2023 the sum of £21,487,341,000.

#### Use of sum issued out of the Consolidated Fund

4

4.1

The sum that the Department may issue out of the Consolidated Fund under
section  3  may be used for the year ending 31 March 2023 in accordance with
subsection  (2) .

4.2

The sum specified in Part 1 of a Schedule 1 estimate as a money requirement
may be used by the person to whom the estimate relates for the purposes
specified in Part 2 of the estimate.

4.3

The authorisations in this section and in section  3  supersede the
authorisations and appropriations made—

4.3.a

by section 4 of the  Budget Act (Northern Ireland) 2022 (c. 6 (N.I.)) , and

4.3.b

under section 59 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 for the year ending 31 March
2023,

which total £20,353,974,000.

#### Power to borrow

5

5.1

The Department may borrow on the credit of the sum specified in section  3
any sum or sums not exceeding in total £10,743,671,000.

5.2

Any money so borrowed is to be repaid along with any interest due on it out of
the Consolidated Fund not later than 31 March 2023.

#### Use of income

6

6.1

In the year ending 31 March 2023, a person mentioned in section  1 (3)  may
use income from a source specified in Part 3 of the Schedule 1 estimate
relating to that person for a purpose specified in Part 2 of the estimate; but
this is subject to subsections  (2)  to  (5) .

6.2

Where the income is received in connection with current purposes, the person—

6.2.a

may use the income for current purposes;

6.2.b

must not use the income for capital purposes.

6.3

Where the income is received in connection with capital purposes, the person—

6.3.a

may use the income for capital purposes;

6.3.b

must not use the income for current purposes.

6.4

Where the source of income is identified in the estimate as relating to a
category of expenditure, the person—

6.4.a

may use income from that source for a purpose identified in the estimate as
falling within that category;

6.4.b

must not use income from that source for any other purpose.

6.5

The categories of expenditure are the categories set out in section  2 (7) .

6.6

Where, in the year ending 31 March 2023, money is received by a person
mentioned in section  1 (3) —

6.6.a

the money may be used in accordance with this section or with any other
statutory provision that provides for the person to deal with income in a
particular manner, and

6.6.b

in so far as not so used, it must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

#### Operation from the beginning of the year ending 31 March 2023

7

Sections  1  to  6  are to be treated as having had effect from the beginning
of 1 April 2022.

### Year ending 31 March 2024

#### Use of resources

8

8.1

For the purposes of section 6(1) of the 2001 Act, this section and section  9
authorise the use of resources in the year ending 31 March 2024.

8.2

In that year, the use of resources by the persons mentioned in subsection  (3)
is authorised up to the amount of £17,404,266,000.

8.3

The persons are—

8.3.a

the Northern Ireland departments;

8.3.b

the Food Standards Agency;

8.3.c

the Northern Ireland Assembly Commission;

8.3.d

the Northern Ireland Audit Office;

8.3.e

the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation;

8.3.f

the Northern Ireland Public Services Ombudsman;

8.3.g

the Public Prosecution Service for Northern Ireland.

8.4

Of the amount authorised by subsection  (2) —

8.4.a

£15,835,528,000 is authorised for use for current purposes, and

8.4.b

£1,568,738,000 is authorised for use for capital purposes.

#### Limits on use of resources

9

9.1

Schedule 2 contains estimates relating to the persons mentioned in section  8
(3)  for the year ending 31 March 2024 (“Schedule 2 estimates”).

9.2

In the year ending 31 March 2024, a person mentioned in section  8 (3)  may
use resources in accordance with subsections  (3)  to  (7)  and the Schedule 2
estimate relating to that person.

9.3

The person may use resources for the purposes specified in Part 2 of the
estimate; but this is subject to subsections  (4)  to  (7) .

9.4

Where Part 1 of the estimate authorises the use of net resources for current
purposes, the person—

9.4.a

may use resources up to the amount so authorised for current purposes;

9.4.b

must not use those resources for capital purposes.

9.5

Where Part 1 of the estimate authorises the use of net resources for capital
purposes, the person—

9.5.a

may use resources up to the amount so authorised for capital purposes;

9.5.b

must not use those resources for current purposes.

9.6

Where Part 1 of the estimate authorises the use of net resources in relation
to a category of expenditure, the person—

9.6.a

may use resources up to the amount so authorised for a purpose identified in
the estimate as falling within that category of expenditure;

9.6.b

must not use those resources for any other purpose.

9.7

The categories of expenditure are—

9.7.a

expenditure subject to a departmental expenditure limit;

9.7.b

annually managed expenditure;

9.7.c

non-budget expenditure.

#### Issue of sum out of the Consolidated Fund

10

The Department may issue out of the Consolidated Fund and apply to the service
of the year ending 31 March 2024 the sum of £14,154,737,000.

#### Use of sum issued out of the Consolidated Fund

11

11.1

The sum that the Department may issue out of the Consolidated Fund under
section  10  may be used for the year ending 31 March 2024 in accordance with
subsection  (2) .

11.2

The sum specified in Part 1 of a Schedule 2 estimate as a money requirement
may be used by the person to whom the estimate relates for the purposes
specified in Part 2 of the estimate.

#### Power to borrow

12

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Supplementary

#### Act to take effect as if it were a Budget Act of the Assembly

13

13.1

The authorisations in this Act, and the limits set by it, take effect as if
they were authorisations in, and limits set by, an Act of the Northern Ireland
Assembly; and accordingly any reference in a statutory provision to a Budget
Act of the Assembly includes a reference to this Act.

13.2

The 2001 Act applies in respect of the year ending 31 March 2023 with the
following modifications—

13.2.a

section 6(4) has effect as if for “if an estimate is approved by the Assembly
for that body or person in respect of each financial year” there were
substituted  “if an estimate is laid before Parliament for that body or person
in respect of the year ending 31 March 2023” ;

13.2.b

section 9(1) has effect as if for “for which an estimate is approved by the
Assembly in respect of a financial year” there were substituted  “for which an
estimate is laid before Parliament in respect of the year ending 31 March
2023” ;

13.2.c

section 13(1) has effect as if for “where an estimate is approved by the
Assembly for any body or person in respect of any financial year” there were
substituted  “where an estimate is laid before Parliament for any body or
person in respect of the year ending 31 March 2023” .

13.3

For the purposes of preparing accounts for the year ending 31 March 2023 for—

13.3.a

the Northern Ireland Audit Office (as required by Article 6(3) of the  Audit
(Northern Ireland) Order 1987 (S.I. 1987/460 (N.I. 5)) , or

13.3.b

the office of the Northern Ireland Public Services Ombudsman (as required by
paragraph 19 of Schedule 1 to the  Public Services Ombudsman Act (Northern
Ireland) 2016 (c. 4 (N.I.)) ),

any estimate of the use of resources for that year that is laid before
Parliament is to be treated as if it had been laid before the Northern Ireland
Assembly under Article 6(2) of that Order or (as the case may be) under
paragraph 18 of Schedule 1 to that Act.

#### Repeal of provisions superseded by this Act

14

Sections 4 to 6 of, and Schedules 3 and 4 to, the  Budget Act (Northern
Ireland) 2022 (c. 6 (N.I.))  are omitted.

#### Interpretation

15

In this Act—

“ the 2001 Act ” means the  Government Resources and Accounts Act (Northern
Ireland) 2001 (c. 6 (N.I.)) ; “ the Consolidated Fund ” means the Consolidated
Fund of Northern Ireland; “ the Department ” means the Department of Finance
in Northern Ireland; “ Northern Ireland department ” has the same meaning as
in the Northern Ireland Act 1998; “ Schedule 1 estimate ” has the meaning
given in section  2 (1) ; “ Schedule 2 estimate ” has the meaning given in
section  9 (1) ; “ statutory provision ” has the same meaning as in section
1(f) of the  Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954 (c. 33 (N.I.)) .

#### Short title

16

This Act may be cited as the Northern Ireland Budget Act 2023.

## Schedules

Estimates for the year ending 31 March 2023

Sections 2, 4 and 6

##### DEPARTMENT FOR AGRICULTURE, ENVIRONMENT AND RURAL AFFAIRS ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
596,248,000 Net resources for capital purposes 82,447,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 16,092,000 Net resources for
capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes -
Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement 677,958,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: The provision of agricultural, educational and
knowledge transfer services, research and development and payments and grants
to students, societies, associations, institutions, clubs and other
organisations for agri-food purposes, horticulture, environmental purposes and
rural development. The provision of veterinary services, official controls and
other official activities including animal health and welfare, veterinary
public health and veterinary certification of live animals and animal products
and payments of compensation to farmers for animals culled in disease control
programmes. The provision and application of policy support, policy
development and legislation for the agri-food and equine industries, animal
health and welfare, veterinary medicines, antimicrobial resistance, dog
control, wildlife interventions, rural needs and the protection for all
aspects of animal, bee and plant health and welfare. The provision and
application of policy support, policy development and legislation for
protection and conservation of sea fisheries, inland fisheries, aquaculture
and the environment; for mitigating against and adapting to climate change;
and for delivering sustainable green growth. The provision of country parks
and nature reserves. Net spend of the Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, the
Loughs Agency of the Foyle, Carlingford and Irish Lights Commission, the
Northern Ireland Fishery Harbour Authority and the Livestock and Meat
Commission for Northern Ireland. Grants to the Council for Nature Conservation
and the Countryside and the Agricultural Wages Board for Northern Ireland and
grants for scientific services by other bodies, support for innovation,
providing hardship assistance, conservation, natural heritage, green growth,
environmental legislation and protection and operation of the Carrier Bag
Levy. Subsidy and grant to Forest Service in relation to the regulation,
maintenance, protection, development and conservation of forests and the
management of the Forest Service estate. Payments under European Union or
Nationally Funded Programmes including the Common Agricultural Policy and
disallowance, payments to district councils and other approved delivery bodies
and other expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the
United Kingdom's exit from the European Union. Expenditure on enforcement
activities, contingency planning and exercising, digital services,
administration costs, compensation payments, governmental response to the
coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic, UK COVID-19 Inquiry activities; associated non-
cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Creation and movement in provisions; revaluations
due to change in market value; depreciation; net spend of Arm's Length Bodies
(ALBs).

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Income arising from: Recoupment of salaries and associated costs for seconded
staff; European Union (EU) income; receipts from the public and from public /
private sector organisations in respect of various goods and services provided
by the Department; receipts in respect of leases; miscellaneous licence fees
and charges; receipts in respect of Carrier Bag Levy; salvage of livestock
slaughtered under the disease eradication programme; sundry income. Amounts
that may be applied as non-operating accruing resources arising from sale of
assets.

##### DEPARTMENT FOR COMMUNITIES ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
857,228,000 Net resources for capital purposes 276,660,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 4,421,843,000 Net resources for
capital purposes 38,719,000 Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current
purposes 135,052,000 Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money
requirement 5,716,897,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Payments relating to the administration and
operating costs of the Department and the net administration and operating
costs of its ALBs to enable the Department to fulfil its obligations to
support all client groups as well as supporting the governmental response to
the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic and delivering the Programme for Government.
The Department's ALBs include the Northern Ireland Housing Executive, Northern
Ireland Library Authority, National Museums and Galleries Northern Ireland,
Arts Council of Northern Ireland, Sports Council for Northern Ireland, the
North/South Language Body, Charities Commission for Northern Ireland, Armagh
Observatory and Planetarium, Northern Ireland Commissioner for Children and
Young People, Ulster Supported Employment Limited, Commissioner for Older
People for Northern Ireland, Northern Ireland Museums Council, Local
Government Staff Commission and Northern Ireland Local Government Officer's
Superannuation Committee. Expenditure/services of the Department and its ALBs
include: Social security administration including the payment of appropriate
grants, loans, compensation, benefits and allowances; Payment of Welfare
Supplementary payments; Payments associated with the amendment of Special
Rules for Terminal Illness; Payment of Discretionary Support grants and loans;
collection of debt arising from overpayments of benefit and on behalf of other
public and private sector bodies. provision of youth and adult employment
services programmes, schemes and skills training programmes; career
information, advice and guidance services; promoting and protecting the
interests of children, older people, people with disabilities, and other
socially excluded groups; child maintenance service; housing services,
including discretionary payments, loans and subsidies; housing led
regeneration; preventing homelessness, and supporting people to stay in their
homes; regulation of the NI Housing Association sector; arts, creativity,
museums, libraries, linguistic and cultural diversity, sport, recreation and
other services; historic environment and payments to hold or support events;
acquisition and preservation of, and provision of access to, archival
heritage; residual payments in relation to the wind up of the Northern Ireland
Events Company; urban regeneration including services such as property
maintenance and events; community and voluntary sector support; provision of
money and debt advice; services provided to the United Kingdom Resettlement
Scheme; grants to councils in support of local services, transferred functions
and emergency financial assistance; grant funding for delivery of the All-
Island Local Authority Programme; built heritage; payments under European
Union Structural Funds programmes and expenditure relating to exiting the
European Union; sums payable under the Fresh Start and New Decade New Approach
Agreements; UK COVID-19 Inquiry activities; costs of administering services
provided to other departments and partner organisations; all administration
costs, including developmental work on systems; severance payments;
depreciation, impairments and any other non-cash costs including losses,
special payments and write offs.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: The payment of social security and other benefits,
grants, loans, allowances and payments to people of working age, pensioners,
and people with disabilities and their carers, in accordance with the
prevailing legislation and regulations including the governmental response to
the COVID-19 pandemic. Costs and payments associated with the collapse of
private pension schemes. Losses, special payments and write offs. Provisions,
impairments and other Annually Managed Expenditure of the department and its
ALBs.

####### Non-budget expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Payment of the Grant to the Social Fund to fund
Regulated, Discretionary and Winter Fuel payments and Other relevant nonbudget
expenditure.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Income arising from: In accordance with the prevailing legislation and
regulations, income arising from the administration of the Department in
delivering their statutory responsibilities. Including: Recoupment of salaries
and associated costs for seconded staff; recovery of legal costs and DNA fees;
charges collected from paying and receiving parents; charges collected from
mortgage lenders; recovery of costs from other Government Departments and
other public bodies for services provided; funding from Shared Island and
other investment funds; recovery of mesothelioma payments; recovery of
proceeds from crime in respect of benefit fraud and organised fraud; sale of
capital assets and non-capital items; recovery of discretionary loans;
landlord registration fees and reimbursement of loan interest charges by the
Housing Executive; repayment of grants and loans from housing associations;
repayment of Financial Transaction Capital (FTC) loans; rental income;
admission fees to historic monuments and events; levies from publications and
the users of the Public Record Office of Northern Ireland; Resettlement Scheme
recoupments; Licence fee income; EU income; interest accrued and recovered;
sundry receipts.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Income arising from: Transfer of Tax Credit debt from other government
departments and the recovery of support for mortgage interest loans.

##### DEPARTMENT FOR THE ECONOMY ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
1,396,351,000 Net resources for capital purposes 244,571,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes (206,037,000) Net resources for
capital purposes 335,687,000 Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current
purposes 2,079,000 Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money
requirement 1,490,428,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Economic development, through research, developing
policies and evaluation; economic infrastructure in support of economic
development including regulatory reform and circular economy; providing
assistance to industry and business (including assisting with the residual
costs in connection with the privatisation of aircraft and shipbuilding
companies); governmental response to and recovery from the coronavirus
COVID-19 pandemic; telecommunications; the delivery of City/Growth Deals,
Inclusive Future Fund and Complementary Fund; social economy; licencing and
legislation in relation to Minerals and Petroleum; geological research,
Geological Survey NI and safeguarding abandoned mines; Renewable Heat Schemes
and associated costs; energy strategy, energy policy and legislation,
including the provision of energy-related assistance; providing assistance to
the development of Tourism to include acquisition, management and disposal of
assets and resources associated with the development of tourism; business
regulation including company law, Insolvency Service, trading standards,
Consumer Affairs, mutuals policy, legislation and operational; labour market
services including employment law, Office of the Industrial Tribunal and Fair
Employment Tribunal and employer support;  repayment of funds made available
to the Presbyterian Mutual Society to make payments to eligible persons;
providing assistance for the Northern Ireland screen industry and its cultural
sector; higher education (including universities and colleges of education);
further education, youth and adult skills training, management and enterprise
training, student support and other matters relating to tertiary education;
employment schemes and services, including those for people with disabilities,
and career information, advice and guidance services; grants in respect of
Education Maintenance Allowances and certain payments to the Department of
Education in Northern Ireland, the Department for Education in England, the
Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy and the British
Council; repayment of loans; payments under European Union Structural Funds
Programmes and other European Funded schemes including Peace IV, Peace Plus,
Interreg and ERASMUS including match funding; expenditure on activities that
are required as a result of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union,
including assistance and support to businesses as a result of post Brexit
positioning; administration costs, including redundancy payments and other
statutory payments, severance payments and any compensation payments, other
related services; compensation payments in relation to the holiday pay case;
the efficient management and discharge of liabilities falling to the
Department and its partner organisations; UK COVID-19 Inquiry activities;
funding organisations supporting departmental objectives, including the net
spend and non-cash costs of the Department's arm's length bodies including:
Invest Northern Ireland, Northern Ireland Screen Commission, Northern Ireland
Tourist Board (trading as Tourism Northern Ireland), Tourism Ireland Company
Limited by Guarantee (trading as Tourism Ireland), Trade and Business
Development Body (IntertradeIreland), Further Education Colleges, Stranmillis
University College, Labour Relations Agency, Health and Safety Executive for
Northern Ireland, Construction Industry Training Board Northern Ireland,
General Consumer Council for Northern Ireland; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: The efficient management and discharge of
liabilities falling to the Department and its partner organisations. Renewable
Heat Schemes and associated costs; student loans; revaluations; corporation
tax; pensions; bad debts; creation and movement in provisions and other non-
cash items. Funding organisations supporting departmental objectives,
including the net spend and non-cash costs of the Department's arm's length
bodies including: Invest Northern Ireland, Northern Ireland Screen Commission,
Northern Ireland Tourist Board (trading as Tourism Northern Ireland), Tourism
Ireland Company Limited by Guarantee (trading as Tourism Ireland), Trade and
Business Development Body (IntertradeIreland), Further Education Colleges,
Stranmillis University College, Labour Relations Agency, Health and Safety
Executive for Northern Ireland, Construction Industry Training Board Northern
Ireland, General Consumer Council for Northern Ireland.

####### Non-budget expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Further Education pension liabilities; other non-
cash items.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Income arising from: Recoveries of salaries; superannuation and associated
costs of seconded staff; recoupment of costs in respect of processing mineral
and petroleum licences; application fees for mineral and petroleum licences;
sale of geological publications and charges for services provided by
Geological Survey Northern Ireland; consent fees from NI Electricity; rental
income; European Union funding; Insolvency Service and Consumer Affairs fees
and recoveries; loan interest and principal receivable; McManus Scholarship
funding; research funding from Department of Business, Energy and Industrial
Strategy and other funding organisations; Vulnerable Persons Relocation Scheme
income; Department for Communities grant income; grant income from Government
bodies; student loans; the recovery of administration costs and sundry
receipts; recoupment of Renewable Heat Scheme payments.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Income arising from: Repayment of student loans, including interest, pensions
and taxes; recoupment of Renewable Heat Scheme payments.

####### Non-budget income

Income arising from: Company receipts.

##### DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
2,650,242,000 Net resources for capital purposes 217,167,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 282,301,000 Net resources for
capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes -
Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement 2,929,383,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Pre-school, primary and secondary school education
(including library and support services for schools and pupils), the youth
service, children's services, childcare services, community relations measures
for young people, and other related services; services for children, young
people and families; departmental administration and services, including
settlement of NICS equal pay claims; grants and grants-in-aid to the Education
Authority for certain services (including for core and school-related
administration); grants and grants-in-aid to other bodies; payments by the
Department in respect of certain teachers' salaries; repayment of loans;
repayments of grants; payments under the European Union Programme for Peace
and Reconciliation; expenditure on activities that are required as a result of
the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union; severance payments;
compensation payments; governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19
pandemic; UK COVID-19 Inquiry activities; actions associated with the
provision of free period products; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Take up and maintenance of departmental and ALB's
provisions and associated non-cash items including but not restricted to: bad
debts, impairments, tax and pension costs for the Department, its ALBs and
payment of corporation tax.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Income arising from: Administration and programme income in support of its
objectives including: the sale of goods and services by the Department
(including publications), its Executive Agencies, its arm's length bodies, and
other partner organisations; sale of research publications; receipts from
other government departments and other sources (including the EU) in
connection with a range of educational, training, youth support, student
finance provision, children and family programmes with common objectives, and
initiatives in the UK and overseas; sales receipts and profits from
departmental or ALB properties, equipment or other assets (including some
repayment of proceeds of sale); repayments of grants, repayments of loans,
receipts associated with the closure of departmental ALBs, and recoveries from
services provided to Sure Start; the general administration receipts of the
Department, its executive agencies, its arm's length bodies, and other partner
organisations, including: the recovery of salaries and associated costs for
seconded staff, the disposal of surplus assets, charges for accommodation, and
sale of goods and services.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Income arising from: Non-cash accounting adjustments; interest and dividends
and income from disposal of financial assets.

##### DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION — TEACHERS' SUPERANNUATION ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes - Net
resources for capital purposes - Annually managed expenditure Net resources
for current purposes 915,691,000 Net resources for capital purposes - Non-
budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes (2,079,000) Net
resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement 131,442,000

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Pensions, allowances, gratuities etc; certain
payments to the Northern Ireland National Insurance Fund; certain payments in
respect of premature retirement compensation made to members of the scheme and
on behalf of their employers; expenditure on activities that are required as a
result of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union; severance
payments; compensation payments; governmental response to the coronavirus
COVID-19 pandemic; UK COVID-19 Inquiry activities; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Income arising from: Employer and employee contributions; transfers into the
Northern Ireland Teachers' Pension Scheme; certain receipts from the state
pension scheme; certain payments received from specific government funds set
up to facilitate early retirement initiatives.

####### Non-budget income

Income arising from: Payments from the Department for the Economy in relation
to the added years compensation element paid to teachers and lecturers who
retired prematurely from Further Education colleges.

##### DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
242,614,000 Net resources for capital purposes 32,337,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 10,484,000 Net resources for
capital purposes 12,663,000 Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current
purposes - Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement
249,959,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Finance, procurement and policy including Public
Sector Reform; Business Consultancy Services; Construction and Procurement
Delivery; the Departmental Solicitor's Office; Internal Audit Services; NICS
shared services for personnel, finance, ICT including cyber security,
training, digital transformation and service related administration costs;
NICS Accommodation Services including for the wider public sector; receipt of
grants; the administration of centralised funds; services provided by the
Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency and Land and Property
Services; grants to district councils; net operational and programme costs of
the Special European Union Programmes Body; payment and income under the
European Union structural funds programmes; operational costs of the Fiscal
Council and Fiscal Commission; the sponsorship and provision of secretariats
in respect of other independent bodies; funding to support the Boardroom
Apprentice Programme; other common services; settlement of NICS equal pay
claims; expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom's exit from the European Union; governmental response to the
coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK COVID-19 Inquiry activities; severance
payments; compensation payments; other noncash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Depreciation and impairments due to revaluation of
assets and the office estate; creation and revaluation of provisions including
for legal cases and dilapidation costs; Special European Union Programmes Body
pension liabilities; other non-cash items.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Income arising from: Recovery of administration costs and other associated
costs, from other Departments, other bodies and the public including charges
for seconded staff; costs of legal services; Construction and Procurement
Delivery services; charges levied by Northern Ireland Statistics and Research
Agency; fees for Land and Property Services; NICS Accommodation Services; NICS
shared services for personnel, finance, ICT and training; European Union
income; other grants and other centralised service charges; the disposal of
assets.

##### DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE — SUPERANNUATION AND OTHER ALLOWANCES ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes - Net
resources for capital purposes - Annually managed expenditure Net resources
for current purposes 696,500,000 Net resources for capital purposes - Non-
budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes - Net resources for
capital purposes - Money Money requirement 90,000,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Redundancy, early retirement and rechargeable injury
costs to or in respect of persons covered by the NICS Pension Arrangements,
the Civil Service Compensation Scheme (NI) and the Civil Service Injury
Benefit Scheme (NI).

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Pensions, lump sums, transfers out, refunds, injury
benefit, compensation, tax and gratuities to or in respect of persons covered
by the NICS Pension Arrangements, the Civil Service Compensation Scheme (NI)
and the Civil Service Injury Benefit Scheme (NI);  expenditure on activities
that are required as a result of the United Kingdom's exit from the European
Union; governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK COVID-19
Inquiry activities; other non-cash items.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Income arising from: Recovery of redundancy, early retirement and rechargeable
injury payments made in respect of those covered by the NICS Pension
Arrangements, the Civil Service Compensation Scheme (NI) and the Civil Service
Injury Benefit Scheme (NI).

####### Annually managed expenditure

Income arising from: Receipts of superannuation contributions in respect of
employees and employers; transfer values received; recovery of contribution
equivalent premiums; refunds of superannuation payments and repayment of
taxation paid on behalf of scheme members; recovery of payments made in
respect of those covered by the Civil Service Compensation Scheme (NI) and the
Civil Service Injury Benefit Scheme (NI).

##### DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
6,627,291,000 Net resources for capital purposes 358,084,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 459,404,000 Net resources for
capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes -
Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement 7,189,137,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Central expenditure on hospital, paramedic and
ambulance services; community health services; family health services; social
care services; public health and wellbeing programmes; fire and rescue
services; training; European Union programmes; expenditure on activities that
are required as a result of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union;
governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; response to
emerging health issues; grants to voluntary organisations and other bodies;
payments to other government departments; services provided on behalf of other
departments; repayment of grants; repayment of loans; reviews and inquiries;
UK COVID-19 Inquiry activities; compensation, settlement of legal claims and
ex-gratia payments; indemnities; payments from provisions; severance payments;
administration; related services; profit or loss on disposal of assets;
depreciation and impairments; write offs; bad debts; other noncash items. Net
expenditure and non-cash items of Health and Social Care Trusts; Regional
Business Services Organisation; Northern Ireland Blood Transfusion Service;
Northern Ireland Guardian Ad Litem Agency; Northern Ireland Medical and Dental
Training Agency;  Northern Ireland Practice and Education Council for Nursing
and Midwifery; Northern Ireland Social Care Council; Patient and Client
Council; Health and Social Care Regulation and Quality Improvement Authority;
Food Safety Promotion Board (known as safefood); The Institute of Public
Health in Ireland Company Limited by Guarantee;  Northern Ireland Fire and
Rescue Service Board.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Creation and movement of provisions; non-cash items
including but not restricted to: depreciation and impairments; write offs; bad
debts; expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom's exit from the European Union; governmental response to the
coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; related services and costs; UK COVID-19 Inquiry
activities. Net expenditure and non-cash items of Health and Social Care
Trusts; Regional Business Services Organisation; Northern Ireland Blood
Transfusion Service; Northern Ireland Guardian Ad Litem Agency; Northern
Ireland Medical and Dental Training Agency;  Northern Ireland Practice and
Education Council for Nursing and Midwifery; Northern Ireland Social Care
Council; Patient and Client Council; Health and Social Care Regulation and
Quality Improvement Authority; Food Safety Promotion Board (known as
safefood); The Institute of Public Health in Ireland Company Limited by
Guarantee; Northern Ireland Fire and Rescue Service Board.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Income arising from: Hospital, paramedic and ambulance services; social care
services; family health services; sale of goods and services; grants;
donations including donations of assets; receipts for joint, co-funded and
other projects; receipts from other government departments and other sources
(including European Union); research and development; licence fees; training
services; sales of literature and training materials; conference fees; rental
income; Lottery funding; repayment of grants; repayment of loans; interest and
repayments on financial transaction capital loans; compensation and settlement
of claims; disposals of assets; recoupment of salaries and associated costs
for seconded staff; recovery of administration costs; related income; other
sundry receipts.

##### DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH — HEALTH AND SOCIAL CARE PENSION SCHEME ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes - Net
resources for capital purposes - Annually managed expenditure Net resources
for current purposes 2,038,789,000 Net resources for capital purposes - Non-
budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes - Net resources for
capital purposes - Money Money requirement (169,811,000)

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Pension payments; allowances; gratuities; transfers
to alternative pension arrangements; refunds of contributions and compensation
for early retirement to or in respect of persons engaged in health and social
care or other approved employment; expenditure on activities that are required
as a result of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union; governmental
response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; related costs; UK COVID-19
Inquiry activities; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Income arising from: Employee and employer contributions; inward transfer
values received; recovery of contribution equivalent premiums; refunds of
payments; related income; other sundry receipts.

##### DEPARTMENT FOR INFRASTRUCTURE ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
404,013,000 Net resources for capital purposes 498,472,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 174,500,000 Net resources for
capital purposes 1,161,000 Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current
purposes 288,620,000 Net resources for capital purposes 170,000,000 Money
Money requirement 1,417,677,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Design, construction and maintenance of roads,
bridges, structures, walking and cycling infrastructure, footpaths, street
lighting and car parks; costs associated with the operation of the Blue Badge
Scheme; purchase of land, property, vehicles, ferries, plant, computer
software, equipment and stores; supporting research in the development of new
innovative digital solutions; public liability claims; compensation payments;
costs associated with the decriminalisation of parking enforcement; costs
associated with the enforcement of moving traffic offences; costs associated
with residents' parking improvement; restoration or promotion of the
recreational or navigational use of any waterway; maintenance of designated
watercourses and sea defences; reservoir operational issues including the
maintenance of reservoirs in which the department has an interest;
construction and maintenance of drainage and flood defence structures;
protection of drainage function of all watercourses; implementation of
European Union Floods Directive; emergency response to flooding and Lead
Government Department responsibilities; experimental work under the Drainage
(Northern Ireland) Order 1973; enhancing community resilience to flooding;
development of reservoir safety legislation and support for Drainage Council
for Northern Ireland; Flood Risk Planning consultation advice; protection,
restoration and bringing back into active use the Grade A listed Crumlin Road
Gaol and the management of the St Lucia site; road safety services and
promotion; driver licensing, driver and vehicle testing, transport licensing,
enforcement and regulation; rail safety services; train driver licensing,
railway operator licensing, issue of Commercial Bus Service Permits; costs
incurred to facilitate the licensing and regulation of Goods Vehicle
Operators; operation and maintenance of the Strangford Ferry; support for and
grants in respect of the Rathlin Island ferry service and works to Ballycastle
and Rathlin Harbours; support for air and sea ports; support for transport
services including grants in respect of rail and road passenger services
including fare concessions, fuel duty rebate, transport for people with
disabilities, rural transport, shopmobility schemes, provision and maintenance
of bus shelters, purchase of buses and rolling stock and capital works;
environmentally sustainable transport and related infrastructure including
Active School Travel Programme, grants for greenways and active travel and
grants for Blue-Green infrastructure; Ultra Low Emission Vehicle strategies;
energy matters; planning services, support for strategic planning including
grants, planning policy, governance and oversight of planning and plan making
within local councils; transport planning and visioning; payments under
European Union programmes; grants in respect of certain inland waterways; net
cost of the management, maintenance, development and restoration of
operational waterways of Waterways Ireland; the shareholder and water,
flooding, drainage and reservoirs policy functions; repayment of loans;
consultants' and other fees; expenditure on activities that are required as a
result of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union; governmental
response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK COVID-19 Inquiry activities;
administration costs; payments in relation to the holiday pay case; severance
payments; related services including services to other departments; other non-
cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: The creation, revaluation and release of provisions;
depreciation and impairments due to the revaluation of assets, unforeseen
obsolescence and losses caused by catastrophic events; bad debts; net pension
liabilities of Waterways Ireland.

####### Non-budget expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Payment of income subsidies, equity injections,
grants and net lending to Northern Ireland Water Limited.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Income arising from: Receipts for car parking charges; decriminalised parking
enforcement; enforcement of moving traffic offences; residents parking;
operation of the Blue Badge Scheme; various goods and services provided by
Rivers; contribution to the water level management of the Lough Erne system;
leases held by Rivers; dividend and loan interest on the investment in the
trading fund function of the Driver and Vehicle Agency and other services
provided; issue of commercial bus service permits; application and licensing
fees for Goods Vehicle Operators; sponsorship for road safety publicity and
from the sale of rights to use publicity campaigns; ferry charges for carriage
of passengers and vehicles; street works inspection fees; fees charged to the
construction industry and other bodies for laboratory services; charges and
deposits retained for works carried out by, or at the request of, individuals
or other bodies; private street inspections; developers' contributions;
contributions in respect of Plugged in Places project; contributions in
respect of the Active School Travel Programme; charges in respect of the use
of waterways; planning applications/agreements and appeals; Crumlin Road Gaol
Visitor Attraction and Conference Centre; Mater Hospital car park; property
certifications; compensation; income from Councils' contribution towards the
new Planning Portal; services provided by the Department's Graphics Unit; the
recoupment of salaries and associated costs for seconded staff; European Union
income; related income; miscellaneous receipts.

####### Non-budget income

Income arising from: Dividend and loan interest from Northern Ireland Water
Limited.

##### DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
1,261,805,000 Net resources for capital purposes 77,959,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 515,328,000 Net resources for
capital purposes 758,000 Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current
purposes - Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement
1,432,816,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Access to Justice services and policy development,
including expenditure by Legal Services Agency NI, NI Courts and Tribunals
Service, and costs relating to the Historical Institutional Abuse Redress
Board and associated compensation payments; costs relating to the Victims'
Payments Board and associated payments for the Troubles Permanent Disablement
Payment Scheme; the Parole Commissioners for NI and the NI Law Commission, net
expenditure for the Criminal Justice Inspection. Safer Communities services
and policy development, including expenditure by Forensic Science NI, Youth
Justice Agency, net expenditure for the Probation Board for NI, Police
Ombudsman for NI, NI Policing Board, NI Police Fund, Police Rehabilitation and
Retraining Trust and the RUC George Cross Foundation, also expenditure on
state pathology services and the Prisoner Ombudsman, Independent Monitoring
Boards, and search and rescue services. Reducing Offending services and policy
development including expenditure by the NI Prison Service and Youth Justice
Agency. Policing including net expenditure by the Police Service of NI, and
net expenditure of the Independent Assessor of PSNI Recruitment Vetting.
Historical investigations and other legacy costs; implementation of the
Stormont House Agreement and Fresh Start Agreement; Access NI; compensation
schemes; expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom's exit from the European Union; administration costs; settlement of
equal pay claims, severance payments, pension scheme payments, related
services; governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic, UK
Covid-19 Inquiry activities; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: The movement, and release of provisions throughout
the Department, its Agencies and ALBs, impairment of land and buildings;
pension costs including Police pension schemes; corporation tax; other non-
cash items.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Income arising from: The use of video link and conferencing facilities;
pension contributions and superannuation liability charges; work done for
other departments and ALBs; recoupment of salaries and associated costs for
seconded staff; recovery of costs from staff; freedom of information and data
protection act receipts; recovery of compensation paid; recoupment of grant
funding; recovery of costs associated with providing forensic science
services; receipts in connection with the Justice Act (NI) 2011; other Access
to Justice receipts; Safer Communities receipts; fireworks and explosives
licensing and inspection; proceeds of prison goods and services; prisoner
productions; staff accommodation; European Union (EU) income; contributions to
community programmes and initiatives;  student placement; Youth Justice and
Prison Service tuck shop sales; criminal history checks; fees and costs
recovered or received for the use of the Department of Justice estate; court
and tribunal fees; recovery of costs for the Historical Institutional Abuse
Redress Board and associated compensation payments, and costs for the Victims'
Payments Board and associated payments for the Troubles Permanent Disablement
Payment Scheme; proceeds of crime; fines and fixed penalty notices; recoveries
of legal aid monies and contributions from assisted parties; administration
fees in respect of funds in court; monies recovered in respect of third party
claims; recoveries from the National Insurance Fund for the costs of Office of
the Social Security and Child Support Commissioner; other fees;  related
income; sundry receipts.

##### DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE — NORTHERN IRELAND JUDICIAL PENSION SCHEME ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes - Net
resources for capital purposes - Annually managed expenditure Net resources
for current purposes 300,000 Net resources for capital purposes - Non-budget
expenditure Net resources for current purposes - Net resources for capital
purposes - Money Money requirement 500,000

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Pension scheme benefits to or in respect of persons
covered by the Northern Ireland Judicial Pension Scheme; other non-cash items.

##### THE EXECUTIVE OFFICE ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
156,483,000 Net resources for capital purposes 60,897,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 178,171,000 Net resources for
capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes -
Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement 209,386,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Support to the Executive Committee; the co-
ordination of policy; net expenses of the Attorney General for Northern
Ireland and the Commissioner for Public Appointments for Northern Ireland;
public appointments policy and strategy; the skills development and support of
public appointees and potential public appointees; public appointments
including the appointment of the Commissioner for Children and Young People
for Northern Ireland and the Commissioner for Older People for Northern
Ireland; support for the Compact Civic Advisory Panel; net expenses of the
Strategic Investment Board Limited; net expenses of the Northern Ireland
Judicial Appointments Commission; the North-South Ministerial Council; the
British-Irish Council; machinery for the conduct of Inter-Governmental
Relations; civil contingencies and resilience; policy on standards in public
life; the Reinvestment and Reform Initiative; the regeneration of Ebrington;
net expenses of the Maze/Long Kesh Development Corporation; delivery of a
Programme for Government; development of and supporting the delivery of an
Investment Strategy NI, associated plans and governance mechanisms; promotion
of human rights, equality of opportunity and social inclusion and the
alleviation of disadvantage including in situations of severe stress, crisis
or emergency; net expenses of the Equality Commission for Northern Ireland;
actions related to the Historical Institutional Abuse Redress Board and the
Commissioner for Survivors of Institutional Childhood Abuse within the
Historical Institutional Abuse (NI) Act 2019 including, payments to the
designated department under that Act for administrative costs of the Board,
awards of compensation and costs and expenses in connection with applications
and appeals; and other implementation-related actions from the Hart Report,
including a memorial, seeking contributions from Institutions towards the
costs of redress and services for victims and survivors; work associated with
historical clerical child abuse, Mother and Baby Homes and Magdalene
Laundries; net expenses of the Commissioner for Survivors of Institutional
Childhood Abuse; the actions and commitments contained in the Executive's Good
Relations Strategy Together: Building a United Community including the T:BUC
Camps Programme,  Planned Interventions Programme, the Central Good Relations
Fund and the District Councils Good Relations Programme, the Urban Villages
programme; the policy, funding and legislative implementation of the Racial
Equality Strategy and actions associated with Refugee and Asylum Seeker
support and integration; net expenses of the Northern Ireland Community
Relations Council; the European Union Programme for Peace and Reconciliation;
delivering social change including the associated Executive Funds; the
promotion of social value; victims and survivors including actions and
payments associated with the preparation and implementation of a Victims
Payments Scheme for Permanent Disablement; net expenses of the Victims and
Survivors Service Limited; net expenses of the Commission for Victims and
Survivors for Northern Ireland; implementation of the Stormont House Agreement
and the Fresh Start Agreement; actions associated with the implementation of
the New Decade, New Approach Deal; the Commission on Flags, Identity, Culture
and Tradition; promoting the devolved administration's interests
internationally by supporting the development of relationships with
stakeholders overseas, inward visitors, and representatives from overseas on
devolved matters, supporting international activities of benefit to NI,
including establishing, maintaining and developing the work of the offices
overseas; in particular managing and promoting the devolved administration's
interests in Europe; policy development in respect of the devolved
administration's responsibilities and interests in relation to the EU
following the UK's exit; expenditure on devolved functions that are required
as a result of the international agreements entered into by the United
Kingdom; governmental response to and recovery from the coronavirus COVID-19
pandemic; development and delivery of a strategy to tackle violence against
women and girls; actions associated with the implementation of the Period
Products (Free Provision) Act (NI) 2022; re-establishment of the economic
policy unit; settlement of the NICS equal pay claims; severance payments;
associated non-cash items; liaison with other bodies, persons and authorities
(both inside and outside Northern Ireland); information services; the
legislative programme; UK COVID-19 Inquiry activities; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Revaluation of Strategic Sites; movement on
provisions; impairment of long term Financial Transactions Capital loans.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Income arising from: Recovery of secondee costs; rental income; receipts from
the European Union in relation to the EU Programme for Peace and
Reconciliation; recovery of costs for other services.

##### FOOD STANDARDS AGENCY ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
14,536,000 Net resources for capital purposes 534,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 300,000 Net resources for
capital purposes 135,000 Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current
purposes - Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement
14,606,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Improving food safety and promoting healthy eating;
food safety inspection and enforcement; incident management; consumer
awareness of food safety, choice and healthy eating options; research;
training and education; expenditure on activities that are required as a
result of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union; governmental
response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK COVID-19 Inquiry activities;
administration; related services; associated depreciation; other non-cash
items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Provisions; other non-cash items.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Income arising from: Meat hygiene inspection fees; diet, nutrition and food
safety projects and events; rental income; recovery of administration costs;
related income; sundry receipts.

##### NORTHERN IRELAND ASSEMBLY COMMISSION ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
50,757,000 Net resources for capital purposes 2,925,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 2,200,000 Net resources for
capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes -
Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement 50,514,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: The remuneration of Members of the Assembly, the
operation of services supporting Members as they exercise their functions as
Members, in the Assembly, constituencies and elsewhere, including the
administration of the financial support framework for Members. The provision
of property, staff and services to the Assembly; hosting events; provision of
services to enhance the public awareness and involvement in the working of the
Assembly; service related administration costs; severance payments; associated
depreciation; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: The provision for legal costs, early departure
costs, and the annual finance cost for the Assembly Members Pension Scheme.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Income arising from: Recovery of administration costs from other Departments,
other bodies and the public including the recoupment of staff salaries,
ministerial salaries and associated employer related costs; recoupment of
costs for hosted events; certain retail outlet sales; sundry receipts relating
to overpayments.

##### NORTHERN IRELAND AUDIT OFFICE ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
10,315,000 Net resources for capital purposes 2,290,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes - Net resources for capital
purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes - Net
resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement 10,920,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Audit and assurance services; promoting economy,
efficiency and effectiveness in the use of public funds and resources;
conducting exercises to assist in fraud prevention and detection; expenditure
on activities that are required as a result of the United Kingdom's exit from
the European Union; governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19
pandemic; administration; related services; UK COVID-19 Inquiry activities;
associated non-cash items.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Income arising from: The provision of audit and assurance services; data
matching exercises; recoupment of salary and associated costs for seconded
staff; recovery of administration costs; rental income; related income; sundry
receipts.

##### THE NORTHERN IRELAND AUTHORITY FOR UTILITY REGULATION ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes 318,000
Net resources for capital purposes 40,000 Annually managed expenditure Net
resources for current purposes - Net resources for capital purposes - Non-
budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes - Net resources for
capital purposes - Money Money requirement 962,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Developing and regulating the electricity, gas,
water and sewerage industries and markets; promoting competition; protecting
consumers; expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the
United Kingdom's exit from the European Union; those aspects of implementation
of the Department for Economy's Energy Strategy, delivery of the Energy
Transition to Net Zero, developing and regulating Heat Networks, which fall
within the statutory remit of the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility
Regulation; governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK
COVID-19 Inquiry activities; administration; related services; other non-cash
items.

####### Non-budget expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Non-cash items.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Income arising from: Licence fees; dispute resolution; recoupment of salaries
and associated costs for seconded staff; recovery of administration costs;
related income; sundry receipts.

##### NORTHERN IRELAND PUBLIC SERVICES OMBUDSMAN ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
4,035,000 Net resources for capital purposes 57,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes (45,000) Net resources for
capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes -
Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement 3,972,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Investigating complaints of injustice suffered
through maladministration by government departments, statutory agencies,
public bodies, local government and health and social care bodies, general and
independent health care providers, colleges, universities and boards of
governors of grant aided schools; undertaking investigations into systemic
maladministration without the need for complaint; improving standards of
complaints handling by public bodies including publication of statistics, best
practice and training; investigating and adjudicating on complaints on local
government ethical standards against councillors; severance payments;
governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK COVID-19
Inquiry activities; activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom's exit from the European Union; administration; backdated holiday
compensation payments; related services; investigation of complaints about
judicial appointments made by Northern Ireland Judicial Appointments
Commission; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Creation and movement in provisions.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Income arising from: Recoupment of salary and associated costs for any
seconded staff.

##### PUBLIC PROSECUTION SERVICE FOR NORTHERN IRELAND ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
40,274,000 Net resources for capital purposes 435,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 974,000 Net resources for
capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes -
Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement 40,595,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: The prosecution of offences; legal services;
employment of independent counsel; court costs and costs awarded; payments and
services to other departments and public sector bodies; trainee grants;
payments under the Asset Recovery Incentivisation Scheme; staffing;
expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom's exit from the European Union; administration costs; governmental
response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK COVID-19 Inquiry activities;
settlement of other claims; settlement of holiday pay claims; other related
services; severance payments; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Pension liabilities, provisions; other non-cash
costs.

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Income arising from: Costs awarded and court costs recovered by the NI Court
and Tribunals Service on behalf of the Public Prosecution Service for Northern
Ireland; receipts from services provided to departments and other public
bodies; payments from the Department of Justice under the Asset Recovery
Incentivisation Scheme.

Estimates for the year ending 31 March 2024

Sections 9 and 11

##### DEPARTMENT FOR AGRICULTURE, ENVIRONMENT AND RURAL AFFAIRS ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
387,562,000 Net resources for capital purposes 53,591,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 10,460,000 Net resources for
capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes -
Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement 440,673,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: The provision of agricultural, educational and
knowledge transfer services, research and development and payments and grants
to students, societies, associations, institutions, clubs and other
organisations for agri-food purposes, horticulture, environmental purposes and
rural development. The provision of veterinary services, official controls and
other official activities including animal health and welfare, veterinary
public health and veterinary certification of live animals and animal products
and payments of compensation to farmers for animals culled in disease control
programmes. The provision and application of policy support, policy
development and legislation for the agri-food and equine industries, animal
health and welfare, veterinary medicines, antimicrobial resistance, dog
control, wildlife interventions, rural needs and the protection for all
aspects of animal, bee and plant health and welfare. The provision and
application of policy support, policy development and legislation for
protection and conservation of sea fisheries, inland fisheries, aquaculture
and the environment; for mitigating against and adapting to climate change;
and for delivering sustainable green growth. The provision of country parks
and nature reserves. Net spend of the Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, the
Loughs Agency of the Foyle, Carlingford and Irish Lights Commission, the
Northern Ireland Fishery Harbour Authority and the Livestock and Meat
Commission for Northern Ireland. Grants to the Council for Nature Conservation
and the Countryside and the Agricultural Wages Board for Northern Ireland and
grants for scientific services by other bodies, support for innovation,
providing hardship assistance, conservation, natural heritage, green growth,
environmental legislation and protection and operation of the Carrier Bag
Levy. Subsidy and grant to Forest Service in relation to the regulation,
maintenance, protection, development and conservation of forests and the
management of the Forest Service estate. Payments under European Union or
Nationally Funded Programmes including the Common Agricultural Policy and
disallowance, payments to district councils and other approved delivery bodies
and other expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the
United Kingdom's exit from the European Union. Expenditure on enforcement
activities, contingency planning and exercising, digital services,
administration costs, compensation payments, governmental response to the
coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic, UK COVID-19 Inquiry activities; associated non-
cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Creation and movement in provisions; revaluations
due to change in market value; depreciation; net spend of Arm's Length Bodies
(ALBs).

##### DEPARTMENT FOR COMMUNITIES ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
557,199,000 Net resources for capital purposes 179,829,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 2,874,198,000 Net resources for
capital purposes 25,168,000 Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current
purposes 87,784,000 Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money
requirement 3,715,984,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Payments relating to the administration and
operating costs of the Department and the net administration and operating
costs of its ALBs to enable the Department to fulfil its obligations to
support all client groups as well as supporting the governmental response to
the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic and delivering the Programme for Government.
The Department's ALBs include the Northern Ireland Housing Executive, Northern
Ireland Library Authority, National Museums and Galleries Northern Ireland,
Arts Council of Northern Ireland, Sports Council for Northern Ireland, the
North/South Language Body, Charities Commission for Northern Ireland, Armagh
Observatory and Planetarium, Northern Ireland Commissioner for Children and
Young People, Ulster Supported Employment Limited, Commissioner for Older
People for Northern Ireland, Northern Ireland Museums Council, Local
Government Staff Commission and Northern Ireland Local Government Officer's
Superannuation Committee. Expenditure/services of the Department and its ALBs
include: Social security administration including the payment of appropriate
grants, loans, compensation, benefits and allowances; Payment of Welfare
Supplementary payments; Payments associated with the amendment of Special
Rules for Terminal Illness; Payment of Discretionary Support grants and loans;
collection of debt arising from overpayments of benefit and on behalf of other
public and private sector bodies. provision of youth and adult employment
services programmes, schemes and skills training programmes; career
information, advice and guidance services; promoting and protecting the
interests of children, older people, people with disabilities, and other
socially excluded groups; child maintenance service; housing services,
including discretionary payments, loans and subsidies; housing led
regeneration; preventing homelessness, and supporting people to stay in their
homes; regulation of the NI Housing Association sector; arts, creativity,
museums, libraries, linguistic and cultural diversity, sport, recreation and
other services; historic environment and payments to hold or support events;
acquisition and preservation of, and provision of access to, archival
heritage; residual payments in relation to the wind up of the Northern Ireland
Events Company; urban regeneration including services such as property
maintenance and events; community and voluntary sector support; provision of
money and debt advice; services provided to the United Kingdom Resettlement
Scheme; grants to councils in support of local services, transferred functions
and emergency financial assistance; grant funding for delivery of the All-
Island Local Authority Programme; built heritage; payments under European
Union Structural Funds programmes and expenditure relating to exiting the
European Union; sums payable under the Fresh Start and New Decade New Approach
Agreements; UK COVID-19 Inquiry activities; costs of administering services
provided to other departments and partner organisations; all administration
costs, including developmental work on systems; severance payments;
depreciation, impairments and any other non-cash costs including losses,
special payments and write offs.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: The payment of social security and other benefits,
grants, loans, allowances and payments to people of working age, pensioners,
and people with disabilities and their carers, in accordance with the
prevailing legislation and regulations including the governmental response to
the COVID-19 pandemic. Costs and payments associated with the collapse of
private pension schemes. Losses, special payments and write offs. Provisions,
impairments and other Annually Managed Expenditure of the department and its
ALBs.

####### Non-budget expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Payment of the Grant to the Social Fund to fund
Regulated, Discretionary and Winter Fuel payments and Other relevant non-
budget expenditure.

##### DEPARTMENT FOR THE ECONOMY ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
907,629,000 Net resources for capital purposes 158,972,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes (133,925,000) Net resources for
capital purposes 218,197,000 Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current
purposes 1,352,000 Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money
requirement 968,779,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Economic development, through research, developing
policies and evaluation; economic infrastructure in support of economic
development including regulatory reform and circular economy; providing
assistance to industry and business (including assisting with the residual
costs in connection with the privatisation of aircraft and shipbuilding
companies); governmental response to and recovery from the coronavirus
COVID-19 pandemic; telecommunications; the delivery of City/Growth Deals,
Inclusive Future Fund and Complementary Fund; social economy; licencing and
legislation in relation to Minerals and Petroleum; geological research,
Geological Survey NI and safeguarding abandoned mines; Renewable Heat Schemes
and associated costs; energy strategy, energy policy and legislation,
including the provision of energy-related assistance; providing assistance to
the development of Tourism to include acquisition, management and disposal of
assets and resources associated with the development of tourism; business
regulation including company law, Insolvency Service, trading standards,
Consumer Affairs, mutuals policy, legislation and operational; labour market
services including employment law, Office of the Industrial Tribunal and Fair
Employment Tribunal and employer support;  repayment of funds made available
to the Presbyterian Mutual Society to make payments to eligible persons;
providing assistance for the Northern Ireland screen industry and its cultural
sector; higher education (including universities and colleges of education);
further education, youth and adult skills training, management and enterprise
training, student support and other matters relating to tertiary education;
employment schemes and services, including those for people with disabilities,
and career information, advice and guidance services; grants in respect of
Education Maintenance Allowances and certain payments to the Department of
Education in Northern Ireland, the Department for Education in England, the
Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy and the British
Council; repayment of loans; payments under European Union Structural Funds
Programmes and other European Funded schemes including Peace IV, Peace Plus,
Interreg and ERASMUS including match funding; expenditure on activities that
are required as a result of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union,
including assistance and support to businesses as a result of post Brexit
positioning; administration costs, including redundancy payments and other
statutory payments, severance payments and any compensation payments, other
related services; compensation payments in relation to the holiday pay case;
the efficient management and discharge of liabilities falling to the
Department and its partner organisations; UK COVID-19 Inquiry activities;
funding organisations supporting departmental objectives, including the net
spend and non-cash costs of the Department's arm's length bodies including:
Invest Northern Ireland, Northern Ireland Screen Commission, Northern Ireland
Tourist Board (trading as Tourism Northern Ireland), Tourism Ireland Company
Limited by Guarantee (trading as Tourism Ireland), Trade and Business
Development Body (IntertradeIreland), Further Education Colleges, Stranmillis
University College, Labour Relations Agency, Health and Safety Executive for
Northern Ireland, Construction Industry Training Board Northern Ireland,
General Consumer Council for Northern Ireland; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: The efficient management and discharge of
liabilities falling to the Department and its partner organisations. Renewable
Heat Schemes and associated costs; student loans; revaluations; corporation
tax; pensions; bad debts; creation and movement in provisions and other non-
cash items. Funding organisations supporting departmental objectives,
including the net spend and non-cash costs of the Department's arm's length
bodies including: Invest Northern Ireland, Northern Ireland Screen Commission,
Northern Ireland Tourist Board (trading as Tourism Northern Ireland), Tourism
Ireland Company Limited by Guarantee (trading as Tourism Ireland), Trade and
Business Development Body (IntertradeIreland), Further Education Colleges,
Stranmillis University College, Labour Relations Agency, Health and Safety
Executive for Northern Ireland, Construction Industry Training Board Northern
Ireland, General Consumer Council for Northern Ireland.

####### Non-budget expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Further Education pension liabilities; other non-
cash items.

##### DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
1,722,658,000 Net resources for capital purposes 141,159,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 183,496,000 Net resources for
capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes -
Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement 1,904,099,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Pre-school, primary and secondary school education
(including library and support services for schools and pupils), the youth
service, children's services, childcare services, community relations measures
for young people, and other related services; services for children, young
people and families; departmental administration and services, including
settlement of NICS equal pay claims; grants and grants-in-aid to the Education
Authority for certain services (including for core and school-related
administration); grants and grants-in-aid to other bodies; payments by the
Department in respect of certain teachers' salaries; repayment of loans;
repayments of grants; payments under the European Union Programme for Peace
and Reconciliation; expenditure on activities that are required as a result of
the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union; severance payments;
compensation payments; governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19
pandemic; UK COVID-19 Inquiry activities; actions associated with the
provision of free period products; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Take up and maintenance of departmental and ALB's
provisions and associated non-cash items including but not restricted to: bad
debts, impairments, tax and pension costs for the Department, its ALBs and
payment of corporation tax.

##### DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION — TEACHERS' SUPERANNUATION ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes - Net
resources for capital purposes - Annually managed expenditure Net resources
for current purposes 595,200,000 Net resources for capital purposes - Non-
budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes (1,352,000) Net
resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement 85,438,000

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Pensions, allowances, gratuities etc; certain
payments to the Northern Ireland National Insurance Fund; certain payments in
respect of premature retirement compensation made to members of the scheme and
on behalf of their employers; expenditure on activities that are required as a
result of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union; severance
payments; compensation payments; governmental response to the coronavirus
COVID-19 pandemic; UK COVID-19 Inquiry activities; other non-cash items.

##### DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
157,700,000 Net resources for capital purposes 21,020,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 6,815,000 Net resources for
capital purposes 8,231,000 Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current
purposes - Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement
162,474,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Finance, procurement and policy including Public
Sector Reform; Business Consultancy Services; Construction and Procurement
Delivery; the Departmental Solicitor's Office; Internal Audit Services; NICS
shared services for personnel, finance, ICT including cyber security,
training, digital transformation and service related administration costs;
NICS Accommodation Services including for the wider public sector; receipt of
grants; the administration of centralised funds; services provided by the
Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency and Land and Property
Services; grants to district councils; net operational and programme costs of
the Special European Union Programmes Body; payment and income under the
European Union structural funds programmes; operational costs of the Fiscal
Council and Fiscal Commission; the sponsorship and provision of secretariats
in respect of other independent bodies; funding to support the Boardroom
Apprentice Programme; other common services; settlement of NICS equal pay
claims; expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom's exit from the European Union; governmental response to the
coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK COVID-19 Inquiry activities; severance
payments; compensation payments; other noncash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Depreciation and impairments due to revaluation of
assets and the office estate; creation and revaluation of provisions including
for legal cases and dilapidation costs; Special European Union Programmes Body
pension liabilities; other non-cash items.

##### DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE — SUPERANNUATION AND OTHER ALLOWANCES ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes - Net
resources for capital purposes - Annually managed expenditure Net resources
for current purposes 452,725,000 Net resources for capital purposes - Non-
budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes - Net resources for
capital purposes - Money Money requirement 58,500,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Redundancy, early retirement and rechargeable injury
costs to or in respect of persons covered by the NICS Pension Arrangements,
the Civil Service Compensation Scheme (NI) and the Civil Service Injury
Benefit Scheme (NI).

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Pensions, lump sums, transfers out, refunds, injury
benefit, compensation, tax and gratuities to or in respect of persons covered
by the NICS Pension Arrangements, the Civil Service Compensation Scheme (NI)
and the Civil Service Injury Benefit Scheme (NI);  expenditure on activities
that are required as a result of the United Kingdom's exit from the European
Union; governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK COVID-19
Inquiry activities; other non-cash items.

##### DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
4,307,740,000 Net resources for capital purposes 232,755,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 298,613,000 Net resources for
capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes -
Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement 4,672,940,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Central expenditure on hospital, paramedic and
ambulance services; community health services; family health services; social
care services; public health and wellbeing programmes; fire and rescue
services; training; European Union programmes; expenditure on activities that
are required as a result of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union;
governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; response to
emerging health issues; grants to voluntary organisations and other bodies;
payments to other government departments; services provided on behalf of other
departments; repayment of grants; repayment of loans; reviews and inquiries;
UK COVID-19 Inquiry activities; compensation, settlement of legal claims and
ex-gratia payments; indemnities;  payments from provisions; severance
payments; administration; related services; profit or loss on disposal of
assets; depreciation and impairments; write offs; bad debts; other noncash
items. Net expenditure and non-cash items of Health and Social Care Trusts;
Regional Business Services Organisation; Northern Ireland Blood Transfusion
Service; Northern Ireland Guardian Ad Litem Agency; Northern Ireland Medical
and Dental Training Agency;  Northern Ireland Practice and Education Council
for Nursing and Midwifery; Northern Ireland Social Care Council; Patient and
Client Council; Health and Social Care Regulation and Quality Improvement
Authority; Food Safety Promotion Board (known as safefood); The Institute of
Public Health in Ireland Company Limited by Guarantee; Northern Ireland Fire
and Rescue Service Board.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Creation and movement of provisions; non-cash items
including but not restricted to: depreciation and impairments; write offs; bad
debts; expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom's exit from the European Union; governmental response to the
coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; related services and costs; UK COVID-19 Inquiry
activities. Net expenditure and non-cash items of Health and Social Care
Trusts; Regional Business Services Organisation; Northern Ireland Blood
Transfusion Service; Northern Ireland Guardian Ad Litem Agency; Northern
Ireland Medical and Dental Training Agency;  Northern Ireland Practice and
Education Council for Nursing and Midwifery; Northern Ireland Social Care
Council; Patient and Client Council; Health and Social Care Regulation and
Quality Improvement Authority; Food Safety Promotion Board (known as
safefood); The Institute of Public Health in Ireland Company Limited by
Guarantee; Northern Ireland Fire and Rescue Service Board.

##### DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH — HEALTH AND SOCIAL CARE PENSION SCHEME ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes - Net
resources for capital purposes - Annually managed expenditure Net resources
for current purposes 1,325,213,000 Net resources for capital purposes - Non-
budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes - Net resources for
capital purposes - Money Money requirement -

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Pension payments; allowances; gratuities; transfers
to alternative pension arrangements; refunds of contributions and compensation
for early retirement to or in respect of persons engaged in health and social
care or other approved employment; expenditure on activities that are required
as a result of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union; governmental
response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; related costs; UK COVID-19
Inquiry activities; other non-cash items.

##### DEPARTMENT FOR INFRASTRUCTURE ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
262,609,000 Net resources for capital purposes 324,007,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 113,425,000 Net resources for
capital purposes 755,000 Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current
purposes 265,183,000 Net resources for capital purposes 110,500,000 Money
Money requirement 999,071,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Design, construction and maintenance of roads,
bridges, structures, walking and cycling infrastructure, footpaths, street
lighting and car parks; costs associated with the operation of the Blue Badge
Scheme; purchase of land, property, vehicles, ferries, plant, computer
software, equipment and stores; supporting research in the development of new
innovative digital solutions; public liability claims; compensation payments;
costs associated with the decriminalisation of parking enforcement; costs
associated with the enforcement of moving traffic offences; costs associated
with residents' parking improvement; restoration or promotion of the
recreational or navigational use of any waterway; maintenance of designated
watercourses and sea defences; reservoir operational issues including the
maintenance of reservoirs in which the department has an interest;
construction and maintenance of drainage and flood defence structures;
protection of drainage function of all watercourses; implementation of
European Union Floods Directive; emergency response to flooding and Lead
Government Department responsibilities; experimental work under the Drainage
(Northern Ireland) Order 1973; enhancing community resilience to flooding;
development of reservoir safety legislation and support for Drainage Council
for Northern Ireland; Flood Risk Planning consultation advice; protection,
restoration and bringing back into active use the Grade A listed Crumlin Road
Gaol and the management of the St Lucia site; road safety services and
promotion; driver licensing, driver and vehicle testing, transport licensing,
enforcement and regulation; rail safety services; train driver licensing,
railway operator licensing, issue of Commercial Bus Service Permits; costs
incurred to facilitate the licensing and regulation of Goods Vehicle
Operators; operation and maintenance of the Strangford Ferry; support for and
grants in respect of the Rathlin Island ferry service and works to Ballycastle
and Rathlin Harbours; support for air and sea ports; support for transport
services including grants in respect of rail and road passenger services
including fare concessions, fuel duty rebate, transport for people with
disabilities, rural transport, shopmobility schemes, provision and maintenance
of bus shelters, purchase of buses and rolling stock and capital works;
environmentally sustainable transport and related infrastructure including
Active School Travel Programme, grants for greenways and active travel and
grants for Blue-Green infrastructure; Ultra Low Emission Vehicle strategies;
energy matters; planning services, support for strategic planning including
grants, planning policy, governance and oversight of planning and plan making
within local councils; transport planning and visioning; payments under
European Union programmes; grants in respect of certain inland waterways; net
cost of the management, maintenance, development and restoration of
operational waterways of Waterways Ireland; the shareholder and water,
flooding, drainage and reservoirs policy functions; repayment of loans;
consultants' and other fees; expenditure on activities that are required as a
result of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union; governmental
response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK COVID-19 Inquiry activities;
administration costs; payments in relation to the holiday pay case; severance
payments; related services including services to other departments; other non-
cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: The creation, revaluation and release of provisions;
depreciation and impairments due to the revaluation of assets, unforeseen
obsolescence and losses caused by catastrophic events; bad debts; net pension
liabilities of Waterways Ireland.

####### Non-budget expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Payment of income subsidies, equity injections,
grants and net lending to Northern Ireland Water Limited.

##### DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
820,174,000 Net resources for capital purposes 50,674,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 334,964,000 Net resources for
capital purposes 493,000 Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current
purposes - Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement
931,331,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Access to Justice services and policy development,
including expenditure by Legal Services Agency NI, NI Courts and Tribunals
Service, and costs relating to the Historical Institutional Abuse Redress
Board and associated compensation payments; costs relating to the Victims'
Payments Board and associated payments for the Troubles Permanent Disablement
Payment Scheme; the Parole Commissioners for NI and the NI Law Commission, net
expenditure for the Criminal Justice Inspection. Safer Communities services
and policy development, including expenditure by Forensic Science NI, Youth
Justice Agency, net expenditure for the Probation Board for NI, Police
Ombudsman for NI, NI Policing Board, NI Police Fund, Police Rehabilitation and
Retraining Trust and the RUC George Cross Foundation, also expenditure on
state pathology services and the Prisoner Ombudsman, Independent Monitoring
Boards, and search and rescue services. Reducing Offending services and policy
development including expenditure by the NI Prison Service and Youth Justice
Agency. Policing including net expenditure by the Police Service of NI, and
net expenditure of the Independent Assessor of PSNI Recruitment Vetting.
Historical investigations and other legacy costs; implementation of the
Stormont House Agreement and Fresh Start Agreement; Access NI; compensation
schemes; expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom's exit from the European Union; administration costs; settlement of
equal pay claims, severance payments, pension scheme payments, related
services; governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic, UK
Covid-19 Inquiry activities; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: The movement, and release of provisions throughout
the Department, its Agencies and ALBs, impairment of land and buildings;
pension costs including Police pension schemes; corporation tax; other non-
cash items.

##### DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE — NORTHERN IRELAND JUDICIAL PENSION SCHEME ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes - Net
resources for capital purposes - Annually managed expenditure Net resources
for current purposes 195,000 Net resources for capital purposes - Non-budget
expenditure Net resources for current purposes - Net resources for capital
purposes - Money Money requirement 325,000

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Pension scheme benefits to or in respect of persons
covered by the Northern Ireland Judicial Pension Scheme; other non-cash items.

##### THE EXECUTIVE OFFICE ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
101,714,000 Net resources for capital purposes 39,584,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 115,812,000 Net resources for
capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes -
Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement 136,101,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Support to the Executive Committee; the co-
ordination of policy; net expenses of the Attorney General for Northern
Ireland and the Commissioner for Public Appointments for Northern Ireland;
public appointments policy and strategy; the skills development and support of
public appointees and potential public appointees; public appointments
including the appointment of the Commissioner for Children and Young People
for Northern Ireland and the Commissioner for Older People for Northern
Ireland; support for the Compact Civic Advisory Panel; net expenses of the
Strategic Investment Board Limited; net expenses of the Northern Ireland
Judicial Appointments Commission; the North-South Ministerial Council; the
British-Irish Council; machinery for the conduct of Inter-Governmental
Relations; civil contingencies and resilience; policy on standards in public
life; the Reinvestment and Reform Initiative; the regeneration of Ebrington;
net expenses of the Maze/Long Kesh Development Corporation; delivery of a
Programme for Government; development of and supporting the delivery of an
Investment Strategy NI, associated plans and governance mechanisms; promotion
of human rights, equality of opportunity and social inclusion and the
alleviation of disadvantage including in situations of severe stress, crisis
or emergency; net expenses of the Equality Commission for Northern Ireland;
actions related to the Historical Institutional Abuse Redress Board and the
Commissioner for Survivors of Institutional Childhood Abuse within the
Historical Institutional Abuse (NI) Act 2019 including, payments to the
designated department under that Act for administrative costs of the Board,
awards of compensation and costs and expenses in connection with applications
and appeals; and other implementation-related actions from the Hart Report,
including a memorial, seeking contributions from Institutions towards the
costs of redress and services for victims and survivors; work associated with
historical clerical child abuse, Mother and Baby Homes and Magdalene
Laundries; net expenses of the Commissioner for Survivors of Institutional
Childhood Abuse; the actions and commitments contained in the Executive's Good
Relations Strategy Together: Building a United Community including the T:BUC
Camps Programme,  Planned Interventions Programme, the Central Good Relations
Fund and the District Councils Good Relations Programme, the Urban Villages
programme; the policy, funding and legislative implementation of the Racial
Equality Strategy and actions associated with Refugee and Asylum Seeker
support and integration; net expenses of the Northern Ireland Community
Relations Council; the European Union Programme for Peace and Reconciliation;
delivering social change including the associated Executive Funds; the
promotion of social value; victims and survivors including actions and
payments associated with the preparation and implementation of a Victims
Payments Scheme for Permanent Disablement; net expenses of the Victims and
Survivors Service Limited; net expenses of the Commission for Victims and
Survivors for Northern Ireland; implementation of the Stormont House Agreement
and the Fresh Start Agreement; actions associated with the implementation of
the New Decade, New Approach Deal including the establishment of and support
for the bodies or offices established by or under Parts 7A, 7B and 7C of the
Northern Ireland Act 1998; the Commission on Flags, Identity, Culture and
Tradition; promoting the devolved administration's interests internationally
by supporting the development of relationships with stakeholders overseas,
inward visitors, and representatives from overseas on devolved matters,
supporting international activities of benefit to NI, including establishing,
maintaining and developing the work of the offices overseas; in particular
managing and promoting the devolved administration's interests in Europe;
policy development in respect of the devolved administration's
responsibilities and interests in relation to the EU following the UK's exit;
expenditure on devolved functions that are required as a result of the
international agreements entered into by the United Kingdom; governmental
response to and recovery from the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; development
and delivery of a strategy to tackle violence against women and girls; actions
associated with the implementation of the Period Products (Free Provision) Act
(NI) 2022; re-establishment of the economic policy unit; settlement of the
NICS equal pay claims; severance payments; associated non-cash items; liaison
with other bodies, persons and authorities (both inside and outside Northern
Ireland); information services; the legislative programme; administration; UK
COVID-19 Inquiry activities; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Revaluation of Strategic Sites; movement on
provisions; impairment of long term Financial Transactions Capital loans.

##### FOOD STANDARDS AGENCY ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
9,449,000 Net resources for capital purposes 65,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 195,000 Net resources for
capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes -
Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement 9,494,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Improving food safety and promoting healthy eating;
food safety inspection and enforcement; incident management; consumer
awareness of food safety, choice and healthy eating options; research;
training and education; expenditure on activities that are required as a
result of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union; governmental
response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK COVID-19 Inquiry activities;
administration; related services; associated depreciation; other non-cash
items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Provisions; other non-cash items.

##### NORTHERN IRELAND ASSEMBLY COMMISSION ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
32,993,000 Net resources for capital purposes 1,902,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 1,430,000 Net resources for
capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes -
Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement 32,835,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: The remuneration of Members of the Assembly, the
operation of services supporting Members as they exercise their functions as
Members, in the Assembly, constituencies and elsewhere, including the
administration of the financial support framework for Members. The provision
of property, staff and services to the Assembly; hosting events; provision of
services to enhance the public awareness and involvement in the working of the
Assembly; service related administration costs; severance payments; associated
depreciation; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: The provision for legal costs, early departure
costs, and the annual finance cost for the Assembly Members Pension Scheme.

##### NORTHERN IRELAND AUDIT OFFICE ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
6,705,000 Net resources for capital purposes 1,489,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes - Net resources for capital
purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes - Net
resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement 7,098,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Audit and assurance services; promoting economy,
efficiency and effectiveness in the use of public funds and resources;
conducting exercises to assist in fraud prevention and detection; expenditure
on activities that are required as a result of the United Kingdom's exit from
the European Union; governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19
pandemic; administration; related services; UK COVID-19 Inquiry activities;
associated non-cash items.

##### THE NORTHERN IRELAND AUTHORITY FOR UTILITY REGULATION ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes 207,000
Net resources for capital purposes 26,000 Annually managed expenditure Net
resources for current purposes - Net resources for capital purposes - Non-
budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes - Net resources for
capital purposes - Money Money requirement 626,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Developing and regulating the electricity, gas,
water and sewerage industries and markets; promoting competition; protecting
consumers; expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the
United Kingdom's exit from the European Union; those aspects of implementation
of the Department for Economy's Energy Strategy, delivery of the Energy
Transition to Net Zero, developing and regulating Heat Networks, which fall
within the statutory remit of the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility
Regulation; governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK
COVID-19 Inquiry activities; administration; related services; other non-cash
items.

####### Non-budget expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Non-cash items.

##### NORTHERN IRELAND PUBLIC SERVICES OMBUDSMAN ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
2,623,000 Net resources for capital purposes 38,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes (30,000) Net resources for
capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes -
Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement 2,582,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: Investigating complaints of injustice suffered
through maladministration by government departments, statutory agencies,
public bodies, local government and health and social care bodies, general and
independent health care providers, colleges, universities and boards of
governors of grant aided schools; undertaking investigations into systemic
maladministration without the need for complaint; improving standards of
complaints handling by public bodies including publication of statistics, best
practice and training; investigating and adjudicating on complaints on local
government ethical standards against councillors; severance payments;
governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK COVID-19
Inquiry activities; activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom's exit from the European Union; administration; backdated holiday
compensation payments; related services; investigation of complaints about
judicial appointments made by Northern Ireland Judicial Appointments
Commission; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Creation and movement in provisions.

##### PUBLIC PROSECUTION SERVICE FOR NORTHERN IRELAND ESTIMATE

(£) Departmental expenditure limit Net resources for current purposes
26,179,000 Net resources for capital purposes 283,000 Annually managed
expenditure Net resources for current purposes 634,000 Net resources for
capital purposes - Non-budget expenditure Net resources for current purposes -
Net resources for capital purposes - Money Money requirement 26,387,000

####### Departmental expenditure limit

Expenditure arising from: The prosecution of offences; legal services;
employment of independent counsel; court costs and costs awarded; payments and
services to other departments and public sector bodies; trainee grants;
payments under the Asset Recovery Incentivisation Scheme; staffing;
expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom's exit from the European Union; administration costs; governmental
response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; UK COVID-19 Inquiry activities;
settlement of other claims; settlement of holiday pay claims; other related
services; severance payments; other non-cash items.

####### Annually managed expenditure

Expenditure arising from: Pension liabilities, provisions; other non-cash
costs.

