Title: Online Safety Act 2023
Date: 2024-08-23
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/50

## Online Safety Act 2023

      B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Introduction

#### Introduction

1

1.1

This Act provides for a new regulatory framework which has the general purpose
of making the use of internet services regulated by this Act safer for
individuals in the United Kingdom.

1.2

To achieve that purpose, this Act (among other things)—

1.2.a

imposes duties which, in broad terms, require providers of services regulated
by this Act to identify, mitigate and manage the risks of harm (including
risks which particularly affect individuals with a certain characteristic)
from—

1.2.a.i

illegal content and activity, and

1.2.a.ii

content and activity that is harmful to children, and

1.2.b

confers new functions and powers on the regulator, OFCOM.

1.3

Duties imposed on providers by this Act seek to secure (among other things)
that services regulated by this Act are—

1.3.a

safe by design, and

1.3.b

designed and operated in such a way that—

1.3.b.i

a higher standard of protection is provided for children than for adults,

1.3.b.ii

users’ rights to freedom of expression and privacy are protected, and

1.3.b.iii

transparency and accountability are provided in relation to those services.

#### Overview of Act

2

2.1

Parts 2 to 9 and 11 and 12 of this Act contain provision about the regulation
by OFCOM of certain internet services.

2.2

Part 2 contains key definitions, including the definition of a user-to-user
service, a search service, a Part 3 service and a regulated service.

2.3

Part 3 imposes duties of care on providers of user-to-user services and search
services and requires OFCOM to issue codes of practice about those duties.

2.4

Part 4 imposes further duties on providers of user-to-user services and search
services.

2.5

Part 5 imposes duties on providers of internet services (including user-to-
user services and search services) that publish certain pornographic content.

2.6

Part 6, which imposes requirements to pay fees to OFCOM, applies to providers
of internet services to which the duties in Part 3, 4 or 5 apply (“regulated
services”).

2.7

Part 7 is about OFCOM’s powers and duties in relation to regulated services
(including powers to obtain information and enforcement powers).

2.8

Part 8 is about appeals and complaints relating to regulated services.

2.9

Part 9 is about the Secretary of State’s functions in relation to regulated
services.

2.10

Part 10 contains communications offences.

2.11

Parts 11 and 12 contain supplementary provisions including an index of terms
defined in this Act (see section 237).

### Key definitions

#### “User-to-user service” and “search service”

3

3.1

In this Act “ user-to-user service ” means an internet service by means of
which content that is generated directly on the service by a user of the
service, or uploaded to or shared on the service by a user of the service, may
be encountered by another user, or other users, of the service.

3.2

For the purposes of subsection  (1) —

3.2.a

it does not matter if content is actually shared with another user or users as
long as a service has a functionality that allows such sharing;

3.2.b

it does not matter what proportion of content on a service is content
described in that subsection.

3.3

For the meaning of “content” and “encounter”, see section 236.

3.4

In this Act “ search service ” means an internet service that is, or includes,
a search engine (see section 229).

3.5

Subsections  (6)  and  (7)  have effect to determine whether an internet
service that—

3.5.a

is of a kind described in subsection  (1) , and

3.5.b

includes a search engine,

is a user-to-user service or a search service for the purposes of this Act.

3.6

It is a search service if the only content described in subsection (1) that is
enabled by the service is content of any of the following kinds—

3.6.a

content mentioned in paragraph  1 ,  2  or  3  of Schedule 1 (emails, SMS and
MMS messages, one-to-one live aural communications) and related identifying
content;

3.6.b

content arising in connection with any of the activities described in
paragraph  4(1)  of Schedule 1 (comments etc on provider content);

3.6.c

content present on a part of the service in relation to which the conditions
in paragraph  7(2)  of Schedule 1 are met (internal business service
conditions).

3.7

Otherwise, it is a user-to-user service.

#### “Regulated service”, “Part 3 service” etc

4

4.1

This section applies for the purposes of this Act.

4.2

A user-to-user service is a “regulated user-to-user service”, and a search
service is a “regulated search service”, if the service—

4.2.a

has links with the United Kingdom (see subsections  (5)  and  (6) ), and

4.2.b

is not—

4.2.b.i

a service of a description that is exempt as provided for by Schedule 1, or

4.2.b.ii

a service of a kind described in Schedule 2 (services combining user-generated
content or search content not regulated by this Act with pornographic content
that is regulated).

4.3

“ Part 3 service ” means a regulated user-to-user service or a regulated
search service.

4.4

“ Regulated service ” means—

4.4.a

a regulated user-to-user service,

4.4.b

a regulated search service, or

4.4.c

an internet service, other than a regulated user-to-user service or a
regulated search service, that is within section 80 (2)  (including a service
of a kind described in Schedule 2).

4.5

For the purposes of subsection  (2) , a user-to-user service or a search
service “has links with the United Kingdom” if—

4.5.a

the service has a significant number of United Kingdom users, or

4.5.b

United Kingdom users form one of the target markets for the service (or the
only target market).

4.6

For the purposes of subsection  (2) , a user-to-user service or a search
service also “has links with the United Kingdom” if—

4.6.a

the service is capable of being used in the United Kingdom by individuals, and

4.6.b

there are reasonable grounds to believe that there is a material risk of
significant harm to individuals in the United Kingdom presented by—

4.6.b.i

in the case of a user-to-user service, user-generated content present on the
service or (if the service includes a search engine) search content of the
service;

4.6.b.ii

in the case of a search service, search content of the service.

4.7

A regulated user-to-user service that includes a public search engine is
referred to in this Act as a “combined service”.

“ Public search engine ” means a search engine other than one in relation to
which the conditions in paragraph  7(2)  of Schedule 1 (internal business
service conditions) are met.

4.8

In this section—

      “ search content ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 (see section 57);
“ user-generated content ” has the meaning given by section 55 (see
subsections  (3)  and  (4)  of that section).

#### Disapplication of Act to certain parts of services

5

5.1

This Act does not apply in relation to a part of a Part 3 service if the
conditions in paragraph  7(2)  of Schedule 1 (internal business service
conditions) are met in relation to that part.

5.2

This Act does not apply in relation to a part of a regulated search service
if—

5.2.a

the only user-generated content enabled by that part of the service is content
of any of the following kinds—

5.2.a.i

content mentioned in paragraph  1 ,  2  or  3  of Schedule 1 (emails, SMS and
MMS messages, one-to-one live aural communications) and related identifying
content;

5.2.a.ii

content arising in connection with any of the activities described in
paragraph  4(1)  of Schedule 1 (comments etc on provider content); and

5.2.b

no regulated provider pornographic content is published or displayed on that
part of the service.

5.3

In this section—

      “ regulated provider pornographic content ” and “ published or displayed
” have the same meaning as in Part 5 (see section 79);           “ user-
generated content ” has the meaning given by section 55 (see subsections  (3)
and  (4)  of that section).

### Providers of regulated user-to-user services and regulated search services: duties of care

#### Introduction

##### Overview of Part 3

6

6.1

This Part imposes duties of care on providers of regulated user-to-user
services and regulated search services and requires OFCOM to issue codes of
practice relating to some of those duties.

6.2

Chapter 2 imposes duties of care on providers of regulated user-to-user
services in relation to content and activity on their services.

6.3

Chapter 3 imposes duties of care on providers of regulated search services in
relation to content and activity on their services.

6.4

Chapter 4 imposes duties on providers of regulated user-to-user services and
regulated search services to assess whether a service is likely to be accessed
by children.

6.5

Chapter 5 imposes duties on providers of certain regulated user-to-user
services and regulated search services relating to fraudulent advertising.

6.6

Chapter 6 requires OFCOM to issue codes of practice relating to particular
duties and explains what effects the codes of practice have.

6.7

Chapter 7 is about the interpretation of this Part, and it includes
definitions of the following key terms—

      “content that is harmful to children”, “primary priority content that is
harmful to children” and “ priority content that is harmful to children ” (see
sections 60 to 62);           “illegal content”, “priority offence”,
“terrorism content”, “CSEA content” and “ priority illegal content ” (see
section 59);           “ search content ” (see section 57).

#### Providers of user-to-user services: duties of care

##### User-to-user services: which duties apply, and scope of duties

###### Providers of user-to-user services: duties of care

7

7.1

Subsections  (2)  to  (6)  apply to determine which of the duties set out in
this Chapter (and, in the case of combined services, Chapter 3) must be
complied with by providers of regulated user-to-user services.

7.2

All providers of regulated user-to-user services must comply with the
following duties in relation to each such service which they provide—

7.2.a

the duties about illegal content risk assessments set out in section 9,

7.2.b

the duties about illegal content set out in section 10 (2)  to  (8) ,

7.2.c

the duty about content reporting set out in section 20,

7.2.d

the duties about complaints procedures set out in section 21,

7.2.e

the duties about freedom of expression and privacy set out in section 22 (2)
and  (3) , and

7.2.f

the duties about record-keeping and review set out in section 23 (2)  to  (6)
.

7.3

Additional duties must be complied with by providers of particular kinds of
regulated user-to-user services, as follows.

7.4

All providers of regulated user-to-user services that are likely to be
accessed by children must comply with the following duties in relation to each
such service which they provide—

7.4.a

the duties about children’s risk assessments set out in section 11, and

7.4.b

the duties to protect children’s online safety set out in section 12 (2)  to
(13) .

7.5

All providers of Category 1 services must comply with the following duties in
relation to each such service which they provide—

7.5.a

the duty about illegal content risk assessments set out in section 10 (9) ,

7.5.b

the duty about children’s risk assessments set out in section 12 (14) ,

7.5.c

the duties about assessments related to adult user empowerment set out in
section 14,

7.5.d

the duties to empower adult users set out in section 15,

7.5.e

the duties to protect content of democratic importance set out in section 17,

7.5.f

the duties to protect news publisher content set out in section 18,

7.5.g

the duties to protect journalistic content set out in section 19,

7.5.h

the duties about freedom of expression and privacy set out in section 22 (4) ,
(6)  and  (7) , and

7.5.i

the duties about record-keeping set out in section 23 (9)  and  (10) .

7.6

All providers of combined services must comply with the following duties in
relation to the search engine of each such service which they provide—

7.6.a

if the service is not a Category 2A service and is not likely to be accessed
by children, the duties set out in Chapter 3 referred to in section 24 (2) ;

7.6.b

if the service is not a Category 2A service and is likely to be accessed by
children, the duties set out in Chapter 3 referred to in section 24 (2)  and
(4) ;

7.6.c

if the service is a Category 2A service not likely to be accessed by children,
the duties set out in Chapter 3 referred to in section 24 (2)  and  (5) ;

7.6.d

if the service is a Category 2A service likely to be accessed by children, the
duties set out in Chapter 3 referred to in section 24 (2) ,  (4)  and  (5) .

7.7

For the meaning of “likely to be accessed by children”, see section 37.

7.8

For the meaning of “Category 1 service”, see section 95 (register of
categories of services).

###### Scope of duties of care

8

8.1

A duty set out in this Chapter which must be complied with in relation to a
user-to-user service that includes regulated provider pornographic content
does not extend to—

8.1.a

the regulated provider pornographic content, or

8.1.b

the design, operation or use of the service so far as relating to that
content.

See Part 5 for the duties which relate to regulated provider pornographic
content, and the meaning of that term.

8.2

A duty set out in this Chapter which must be complied with in relation to a
combined service does not extend to—

8.2.a

the search content of the service,

8.2.b

any other content that, following a search request, may be encountered as a
result of subsequent interactions with internet services, or

8.2.c

anything relating to the design, operation or use of the search engine.

8.3

A duty set out in this Chapter which must be complied with in relation to a
user-to-user service extends only to—

8.3.a

the design, operation and use of the service in the United Kingdom, and

8.3.b

in the case of a duty that is expressed to apply in relation to users of a
service, the design, operation and use of the service as it affects United
Kingdom users of the service.

##### Illegal content duties for user-to-user services

###### Illegal content risk assessment duties

9

9.1

This section sets out the duties about risk assessments which apply in
relation to all regulated user-to-user services.

9.2

A duty to carry out a suitable and sufficient illegal content risk assessment
at a time set out in, or as provided by, Schedule 3.

9.3

A duty to take appropriate steps to keep an illegal content risk assessment up
to date, including when OFCOM make any significant change to a risk profile
that relates to services of the kind in question.

9.4

Before making any significant change to any aspect of a service’s design or
operation, a duty to carry out a further suitable and sufficient illegal
content risk assessment relating to the impacts of that proposed change.

9.5

An “illegal content risk assessment” of a service of a particular kind means
an assessment of the following matters, taking into account the risk profile
that relates to services of that kind—

9.5.a

the user base;

9.5.b

the level of risk of individuals who are users of the service encountering the
following by means of the service—

9.5.b.i

each kind of priority illegal content (with each kind separately assessed),
and

9.5.b.ii

other illegal content,

taking into account (in particular) algorithms used by the service, and how
easily, quickly and widely content may be disseminated by means of the
service;

9.5.c

the level of risk of the service being used for the commission or facilitation
of a priority offence;

9.5.d

the level of risk of harm to individuals presented by illegal content of
different kinds or by the use of the service for the commission or
facilitation of a priority offence;

9.5.e

the level of risk of functionalities of the service facilitating the presence
or dissemination of illegal content or the use of the service for the
commission or facilitation of a priority offence, identifying and assessing
those functionalities that present higher levels of risk;

9.5.f

the different ways in which the service is used, and the impact of such use on
the level of risk of harm that might be suffered by individuals;

9.5.g

the nature, and severity, of the harm that might be suffered by individuals
from the matters identified in accordance with paragraphs  (b)  to  (f) ;

9.5.h

how the design and operation of the service (including the business model,
governance, use of proactive technology, measures to promote users’ media
literacy and safe use of the service, and other systems and processes) may
reduce or increase the risks identified.

9.6

In this section references to risk profiles are to the risk profiles for the
time being published under section 98 which relate to the risk of harm to
individuals presented by illegal content.

9.7

See also—

9.7.a

section 23 (2)  and  (10)  (records of risk assessments), and

9.7.b

Schedule 3 (timing of providers’ assessments).

###### Safety duties about illegal content

10

10.1

This section sets out the duties about illegal content which apply in relation
to regulated user-to-user services (as indicated by the headings).

######### All services

10.2

A duty, in relation to a service, to take or use proportionate measures
relating to the design or operation of the service to—

10.2.a

prevent individuals from encountering priority illegal content by means of the
service,

10.2.b

effectively mitigate and manage the risk of the service being used for the
commission or facilitation of a priority offence, as identified in the most
recent illegal content risk assessment of the service, and

10.2.c

effectively mitigate and manage the risks of harm to individuals, as
identified in the most recent illegal content risk assessment of the service
(see section 9(5)(g)).

10.3

A duty to operate a service using proportionate systems and processes designed
to—

10.3.a

minimise the length of time for which any priority illegal content is present;

10.3.b

where the provider is alerted by a person to the presence of any illegal
content, or becomes aware of it in any other way, swiftly take down such
content.

10.4

The duties set out in subsections  (2)  and  (3)  apply across all areas of a
service, including the way it is designed, operated and used as well as
content present on the service, and (among other things) require the provider
of a service to take or use measures in the following areas, if it is
proportionate to do so—

10.4.a

regulatory compliance and risk management arrangements,

10.4.b

design of functionalities, algorithms and other features,

10.4.c

policies on terms of use,

10.4.d

policies on user access to the service or to particular content present on the
service, including blocking users from accessing the service or particular
content,

10.4.e

content moderation, including taking down content,

10.4.f

functionalities allowing users to control the content they encounter,

10.4.g

user support measures, and

10.4.h

staff policies and practices.

10.5

A duty to include provisions in the terms of service specifying how
individuals are to be protected from illegal content, addressing each
paragraph of subsection  (3) , and (in relation to paragraph (a)) separately
addressing terrorism content, CSEA content (see section 59 and Schedule 6) and
other priority illegal content.

10.6

A duty to apply the provisions of the terms of service referred to in
subsection  (5)  consistently.

10.7

A duty to include provisions in the terms of service giving information about
any proactive technology used by a service for the purpose of compliance with
a duty set out in subsection  (2)  or  (3)  (including the kind of technology,
when it is used, and how it works).

10.8

A duty to ensure that the provisions of the terms of service referred to in
subsections  (5)  and  (7)  are clear and accessible.

######### Additional duty for Category 1 services

10.9

A duty to summarise in the terms of service the findings of the most recent
illegal content risk assessment of a service (including as to levels of risk
and as to nature, and severity, of potential harm to individuals).

######### Interpretation

10.10

In determining what is proportionate for the purposes of this section, the
following factors, in particular, are relevant—

10.10.a

all the findings of the most recent illegal content risk assessment (including
as to levels of risk and as to nature, and severity, of potential harm to
individuals), and

10.10.b

the size and capacity of the provider of a service.

10.11

In this section “ illegal content risk assessment ” has the meaning given by
section 9.

10.12

See also, in relation to duties set out in this section, section 22 (duties
about freedom of expression and privacy).

##### User-to-user services likely to be accessed by children

###### Children’s risk assessment duties

11

11.1

This section sets out the duties about risk assessments which apply in
relation to regulated user-to-user services that are likely to be accessed by
children (in addition to the duties about risk assessments set out in section
9 and, in the case of services likely to be accessed by children which are
Category 1 services, the duties about assessments set out in section 14).

11.2

A duty to carry out a suitable and sufficient children’s risk assessment at a
time set out in, or as provided by, Schedule 3.

11.3

A duty to take appropriate steps to keep a children’s risk assessment up to
date, including when OFCOM make any significant change to a risk profile that
relates to services of the kind in question.

11.4

Before making any significant change to any aspect of a service’s design or
operation, a duty to carry out a further suitable and sufficient children’s
risk assessment relating to the impacts of that proposed change.

11.5

Where a children’s risk assessment of a service identifies the presence of
non-designated content that is harmful to children, a duty to notify OFCOM of—

11.5.a

the kinds of such content identified, and

11.5.b

the incidence of those kinds of content on the service.

11.6

A “children’s risk assessment” of a service of a particular kind means an
assessment of the following matters, taking into account the risk profile that
relates to services of that kind—

11.6.a

the user base, including the number of users who are children in different age
groups;

11.6.b

the level of risk of children who are users of the service encountering the
following by means of the service—

11.6.b.i

each kind of primary priority content that is harmful to children (with each
kind separately assessed),

11.6.b.ii

each kind of priority content that is harmful to children (with each kind
separately assessed), and

11.6.b.iii

non-designated content that is harmful to children,

giving separate consideration to children in different age groups, and taking
into account (in particular) algorithms used by the service and how easily,
quickly and widely content may be disseminated by means of the service;

11.6.c

the level of risk of harm to children presented by different kinds of content
that is harmful to children, giving separate consideration to children in
different age groups;

11.6.d

the level of risk of harm to children presented by content that is harmful to
children which particularly affects individuals with a certain characteristic
or members of a certain group;

11.6.e

the extent to which the design of the service, in particular its
functionalities, affects the level of risk of harm that might be suffered by
children, identifying and assessing those functionalities that present higher
levels of risk, including functionalities—

11.6.e.i

enabling adults to search for other users of the service (including children),
or

11.6.e.ii

enabling adults to contact other users (including children) by means of the
service;

11.6.f

the different ways in which the service is used, including functionalities or
other features of the service that affect how much children use the service
(for example a feature that enables content to play automatically), and the
impact of such use on the level of risk of harm that might be suffered by
children;

11.6.g

the nature, and severity, of the harm that might be suffered by children from
the matters identified in accordance with paragraphs  (b)  to  (f) , giving
separate consideration to children in different age groups;

11.6.h

how the design and operation of the service (including the business model,
governance, use of proactive technology, measures to promote users’ media
literacy and safe use of the service, and other systems and processes) may
reduce or increase the risks identified.

11.7

In this section references to risk profiles are to the risk profiles for the
time being published under section 98 which relate to the risk of harm to
children presented by content that is harmful to children.

11.8

See also—

11.8.a

section 23 (2)  and  (10)  (records of risk assessments), and

11.8.b

Schedule 3 (timing of providers’ assessments).

###### Safety duties protecting children

12

12.1

This section sets out the duties to protect children’s online safety which
apply in relation to regulated user-to-user services that are likely to be
accessed by children (as indicated by the headings).

######### All services

12.2

A duty, in relation to a service, to take or use proportionate measures
relating to the design or operation of the service to effectively—

12.2.a

mitigate and manage the risks of harm to children in different age groups, as
identified in the most recent children’s risk assessment of the service (see
section 11 (6)(g) ), and

12.2.b

mitigate the impact of harm to children in different age groups presented by
content that is harmful to children present on the service.

12.3

A duty to operate a service using proportionate systems and processes designed
to—

12.3.a

prevent children of any age from encountering, by means of the service,
primary priority content that is harmful to children;

12.3.b

protect children in age groups judged to be at risk of harm from other content
that is harmful to children (or from a particular kind of such content) from
encountering it by means of the service.

12.4

The duty set out in subsection  (3)(a)  requires a provider to use age
verification or age estimation (or both) to prevent children of any age from
encountering primary priority content that is harmful to children which the
provider identifies on the service.

12.5

That requirement applies to a provider in relation to a particular kind of
primary priority content that is harmful to children in every case except
where—

12.5.a

a term of service indicates (in whatever words) that the presence of that kind
of primary priority content that is harmful to children is prohibited on the
service, and

12.5.b

that policy applies in relation to all users of the service.

12.6

If a provider is required by subsection  (4)  to use age verification or age
estimation for the purpose of compliance with the duty set out in subsection
(3)(a), the age verification or age estimation must be of such a kind, and
used in such a way, that it is highly effective at correctly determining
whether or not a particular user is a child.

12.7

Age verification or age estimation to identify who is or is not a child user
or which age group a child user is in are examples of measures which (if not
required by subsection  (4) ) may be taken or used (among others) for the
purpose of compliance with a duty set out in subsection (2) or (3).

12.8

The duties set out in subsections  (2)  and  (3)  apply across all areas of a
service, including the way it is designed, operated and used as well as
content present on the service, and (among other things) require the provider
of a service to take or use measures in the following areas, if it is
proportionate to do so—

12.8.a

regulatory compliance and risk management arrangements,

12.8.b

design of functionalities, algorithms and other features,

12.8.c

policies on terms of use,

12.8.d

policies on user access to the service or to particular content present on the
service, including blocking users from accessing the service or particular
content,

12.8.e

content moderation, including taking down content,

12.8.f

functionalities allowing for control over content that is encountered,
especially by children,

12.8.g

user support measures, and

12.8.h

staff policies and practices.

12.9

A duty to include provisions in the terms of service specifying—

12.9.a

how children of any age are to be prevented from encountering primary priority
content that is harmful to children (with each kind of primary priority
content separately covered);

12.9.b

how children in age groups judged to be at risk of harm from priority content
that is harmful to children (or from a particular kind of such content) are to
be protected from encountering it, where they are not prevented from doing so
(with each kind of priority content separately covered);

12.9.c

how children in age groups judged to be at risk of harm from non-designated
content that is harmful to children (or from a particular kind of such
content) are to be protected from encountering it, where they are not
prevented from doing so.

12.10

A duty to apply the provisions of the terms of service referred to in
subsection  (9)  consistently.

12.11

If a provider takes or uses a measure designed to prevent access to the whole
of the service or a part of the service by children under a certain age, a
duty to—

12.11.a

include provisions in the terms of service specifying details about the
operation of the measure, and

12.11.b

apply those provisions consistently.

12.12

A duty to include provisions in the terms of service giving information about
any proactive technology used by a service for the purpose of compliance with
a duty set out in subsection  (2)  or  (3)  (including the kind of technology,
when it is used, and how it works).

12.13

A duty to ensure that the provisions of the terms of service referred to in
subsections  (9) ,  (11)  and  (12)  are clear and accessible.

######### Additional duty for Category 1 services

12.14

A duty to summarise in the terms of service the findings of the most recent
children’s risk assessment of a service (including as to levels of risk and as
to nature, and severity, of potential harm to children).

###### Safety duties protecting children: interpretation

13

13.1

In determining what is proportionate for the purposes of section 12, the
following factors, in particular, are relevant—

13.1.a

all the findings of the most recent children’s risk assessment (including as
to levels of risk and as to nature, and severity, of potential harm to
children), and

13.1.b

the size and capacity of the provider of a service.

13.2

So far as a duty set out in section 12 relates to non-designated content that
is harmful to children, the duty is to be taken to extend only to addressing
risks of harm from the kinds of such content that have been identified in the
most recent children’s risk assessment (if any have been identified).

13.3

References in section 12 (3)(b)  and  (9)(b)  and  (c)  to children in age
groups judged to be at risk of harm from content that is harmful to children
are references to children in age groups judged to be at risk of such harm as
assessed by the provider of a service in the most recent children’s risk
assessment of the service.

13.4

The duties set out in section 12 (3)  and  (9)  are to be taken to extend only
to content that is harmful to children where the risk of harm is presented by
the nature of the content (rather than the fact of its dissemination).

13.5

The duties set out in section 12 extend only to such parts of a service as it
is possible for children to access.

13.6

For the purposes of subsection  (5) , a provider is only entitled to conclude
that it is not possible for children to access a service, or a part of it, if
age verification or age estimation is used on the service with the result that
children are not normally able to access the service or that part of it.

13.7

In section 12 and this section “ children’s risk assessment ” has the meaning
given by section 11.

13.8

See also, in relation to duties set out in section 12, section 22 (duties
about freedom of expression and privacy).

##### Category 1 services

###### Assessment duties: user empowerment

14

14.1

This section sets out the duties about assessments related to adult user
empowerment which apply in relation to Category 1 services (in addition to the
duties about risk assessments set out in section 9 and, in the case of
Category 1 services likely to be accessed by children, section 11).

14.2

A duty to carry out a suitable and sufficient assessment for the purposes of
section 15(2) at a time set out in, or as provided by, Schedule 3.

14.3

A duty to take appropriate steps to keep such an assessment up to date.

14.4

Before making any significant change to any aspect of a service’s design or
operation, a duty to carry out a further suitable and sufficient assessment
for the purposes of section 15(2) relating to the impacts of that proposed
change.

14.5

An assessment of a service “ for the purposes of section 15(2) ” means an
assessment of the following matters—

14.5.a

the user base;

14.5.b

the incidence of relevant content on the service;

14.5.c

the likelihood of adult users of the service encountering, by means of the
service, each kind of relevant content (with each kind separately assessed),
taking into account (in particular) algorithms used by the service, and how
easily, quickly and widely content may be disseminated by means of the
service;

14.5.d

the likelihood of adult users with a certain characteristic or who are members
of a certain group encountering relevant content which particularly affects
them;

14.5.e

the likelihood of functionalities of the service facilitating the presence or
dissemination of relevant content, identifying and assessing those
functionalities more likely to do so;

14.5.f

the different ways in which the service is used, and the impact of such use on
the likelihood of adult users encountering relevant content;

14.5.g

how the design and operation of the service (including the business model,
governance, use of proactive technology, measures to strengthen adult users’
control over their interaction with user-generated content, and other systems
and processes) may reduce or increase the likelihood of adult users
encountering relevant content.

14.6

In this section “ relevant content ” means content to which section 15(2)
applies (content to which user empowerment duties set out in that provision
apply).

14.7

See also—

14.7.a

section 23 (9)  and  (10)  (records of assessments), and

14.7.b

Schedule 3 (timing of providers’ assessments).

###### User empowerment duties

15

15.1

This section sets out the duties to empower adult users which apply in
relation to Category 1 services.

15.2

A duty to include in a service, to the extent that it is proportionate to do
so, features which adult users may use or apply if they wish to increase their
control over content to which this subsection applies.

15.3

The features referred to in subsection  (2)  are those which, if used or
applied by a user, result in the use by the service of systems or processes
designed to effectively—

15.3.a

reduce the likelihood of the user encountering content to which subsection
(2)  applies present on the service, or

15.3.b

alert the user to content present on the service that is a particular kind of
content to which subsection  (2)  applies.

15.4

A duty to ensure that all features included in a service in compliance with
the duty set out in subsection  (2)  (“control features”) are made available
to all adult users and are easy to access.

15.5

A duty to operate a service using a system or process which seeks to ensure
that all registered adult users are offered the earliest possible opportunity,
in relation to each control feature included in the service, to take a step
indicating to the provider that—

15.5.a

the user wishes to retain the default setting for the feature (whether that is
that the feature is in use or applied, or is not in use or applied), or

15.5.b

the user wishes to change the default setting for the feature.

15.6

The duty set out in subsection  (5) —

15.6.a

continues to apply in relation to a user and a control feature for so long as
the user has not yet taken a step mentioned in that subsection in relation to
the feature;

15.6.b

no longer applies in relation to a user once the user has taken such a step in
relation to every control feature included in the service.

15.7

A duty to include clear and accessible provisions in the terms of service
specifying which control features are offered and how users may take advantage
of them.

15.8

A duty to summarise in the terms of service the findings of the most recent
assessment of a service under section 14 (assessments related to the duty set
out in subsection (2)).

15.9

A duty to include in a service features which adult users may use or apply if
they wish to filter out non-verified users.

15.10

The features referred to in subsection  (9)  are those which, if used or
applied by a user, result in the use by the service of systems or processes
designed to effectively—

15.10.a

prevent non-verified users from interacting with content which that user
generates, uploads or shares on the service, and

15.10.b

reduce the likelihood of that user encountering content which non-verified
users generate, upload or share on the service.

###### User empowerment duties: interpretation

16

16.1

In determining what is proportionate for the purposes of section 15 (2) , the
following factors, in particular, are relevant—

16.1.a

all the findings of the most recent assessment under section 14, and

16.1.b

the size and capacity of the provider of the service.

16.2

Section 15 (2)  applies to content that—

16.2.a

is regulated user-generated content in relation to the service in question,
and

16.2.b

is within subsection  (3) ,  (4)  or  (5) .

16.3

Content is within this subsection if it encourages, promotes or provides
instructions for—

16.3.a

suicide or an act of deliberate self-injury, or

16.3.b

an eating disorder or behaviours associated with an eating disorder.

16.4

Content is within this subsection if it is abusive and the abuse targets any
of the following characteristics—

16.4.a

race,

16.4.b

religion,

16.4.c

sex,

16.4.d

sexual orientation,

16.4.e

disability, or

16.4.f

gender reassignment.

16.5

Content is within this subsection if it incites hatred against people—

16.5.a

of a particular race, religion, sex or sexual orientation,

16.5.b

who have a disability, or

16.5.c

who have the characteristic of gender reassignment.

16.6

The duty set out in section 15 (5)  applies in relation to all registered
adult users, not just those who begin to use a service after that duty begins
to apply.

16.7

In section 15 and this section—

      “ disability ” means any physical or mental impairment;           “
injury ” includes poisoning;           “ non-verified user ” means a user who—
is an individual, whether in the United Kingdom or outside it, and
has not verified their identity to the provider of a service;
“ race ” includes colour, nationality, and ethnic or national origins.

16.8

In section 15 and this section—

16.8.a

references to features include references to functionalities and settings, and

16.8.b

references to religion include references to a lack of religion.

16.9

For the purposes of section 15 and this section, a person has the
characteristic of gender reassignment if the person is proposing to undergo,
is undergoing or has undergone a process (or part of a process) for the
purpose of reassigning the person’s sex by changing physiological or other
attributes of sex, and the reference to gender reassignment in subsection  (4)
is to be construed accordingly.

16.10

See also, in relation to duties set out in section 15, section 22 (duties
about freedom of expression and privacy).

###### Duties to protect content of democratic importance

17

17.1

This section sets out the duties to protect content of democratic importance
which apply in relation to Category 1 services.

17.2

A duty to operate a service using proportionate systems and processes designed
to ensure that the importance of the free expression of content of democratic
importance is taken into account when making decisions about—

17.2.a

how to treat such content (especially decisions about whether to take it down
or restrict users’ access to it), and

17.2.b

whether to take action against a user generating, uploading or sharing such
content.

17.3

A duty to ensure that the systems and processes mentioned in subsection  (2)
apply in the same way to a wide diversity of political opinion.

17.4

A duty to include provisions in the terms of service specifying the policies
and processes that are designed to take account of the principle mentioned in
subsection  (2) , including, in particular, how that principle is applied to
decisions mentioned in that subsection.

17.5

A duty to ensure that—

17.5.a

the provisions of the terms of service referred to in subsection  (4)  are
clear and accessible, and

17.5.b

those provisions are applied consistently.

17.6

In determining what is proportionate for the purposes of subsection (2), the
size and capacity of the provider of a service, in particular, is relevant.

17.7

For the purposes of this section content is “ content of democratic importance
”, in relation to a user-to-user service, if—

17.7.a

the content is—

17.7.a.i

news publisher content in relation to that service, or

17.7.a.ii

regulated user-generated content in relation to that service; and

17.7.b

the content is or appears to be specifically intended to contribute to
democratic political debate in the United Kingdom or a part or area of the
United Kingdom.

17.8

In this section, the reference to “taking action” against a user is to giving
a warning to a user, or suspending or banning a user from using a service, or
in any way restricting a user’s ability to use a service.

17.9

For the meaning of “news publisher content” and “regulated user-generated
content”, see section 55.

###### Duties to protect news publisher content

18

18.1

This section sets out the duties to protect news publisher content which apply
in relation to Category 1 services.

18.2

Subject to subsections  (4) ,  (5)  and  (8) , a duty, in relation to a
service, to take the steps set out in subsection  (3)  before—

18.2.a

taking action in relation to content present on the service that is news
publisher content, or

18.2.b

taking action against a user who is a recognised news publisher.

18.3

The steps referred to in subsection (2) are—

18.3.a

to give the recognised news publisher in question a notification which—

18.3.a.i

specifies the action that the provider is considering taking,

18.3.a.ii

gives reasons for that proposed action by reference to each relevant provision
of the terms of service,

18.3.a.iii

where the proposed action relates to news publisher content that is also
journalistic content, explains how the provider took the importance of the
free expression of journalistic content into account when deciding on the
proposed action, and

18.3.a.iv

specifies a reasonable period within which the recognised news publisher may
make representations,

18.3.b

to consider any representations that are made, and

18.3.c

to notify the recognised news publisher of the decision and the reasons for it
(addressing any representations made).

18.4

If a provider of a service reasonably considers that the provider would incur
criminal or civil liability in relation to news publisher content present on
the service if it were not taken down swiftly, the provider may take down that
content without having taken the steps set out in subsection  (3) .

18.5

A provider of a service may also take down news publisher content present on
the service without having taken the steps set out in subsection  (3)  if that
content amounts to a relevant offence (see section 59 and also subsection (10)
of this section).

18.6

Subject to subsection  (8) , if a provider takes action in relation to news
publisher content or against a recognised news publisher without having taken
the steps set out in subsection  (3) , a duty to take the steps set out in
subsection  (7) .

18.7

The steps referred to in subsection  (6)  are—

18.7.a

to swiftly notify the recognised news publisher in question of the action
taken, giving the provider’s justification for not having first taken the
steps set out in subsection (3),

18.7.b

to specify a reasonable period within which the recognised news publisher may
request that the action is reversed, and

18.7.c

if a request is made as mentioned in paragraph (b)—

18.7.c.i

to consider the request and whether the steps set out in subsection (3) should
have been taken prior to the action being taken,

18.7.c.ii

if the provider concludes that those steps should have been taken, to swiftly
reverse the action, and

18.7.c.iii

to notify the recognised news publisher of the decision and the reasons for it
(addressing any reasons accompanying the request for reversal of the action).

18.8

If a recognised news publisher has been banned from using a service (and the
ban is still in force), the provider of the service may take action in
relation to news publisher content present on the service which was generated
or originally published or broadcast by the recognised news publisher without
complying with the duties set out in this section.

18.9

For the purposes of this section, a provider is not to be regarded as taking
action in relation to news publisher content in the following circumstances—

18.9.a

a provider takes action in relation to content which is not news publisher
content, that action affects related news publisher content, the grounds for
the action only relate to the content which is not news publisher content, and
it is not technically feasible for the action only to relate to the content
which is not news publisher content;

18.9.b

a provider takes action against a user, and that action affects news publisher
content that has been uploaded to or shared on the service by the user.

18.10

Section 192 (providers’ judgements about the status of content) applies in
relation to judgements by providers about whether news publisher content
amounts to a relevant offence as it applies in relation to judgements about
whether content is illegal content.

18.11

Any provision of the terms of service has effect subject to this section.

18.12

In this section—

18.12.a

references to “news publisher content” are to content that is news publisher
content in relation to the service in question;

18.12.b

references to “taking action” against a person are to giving a warning to a
person, or suspending or banning a person from using a service, or in any way
restricting a person’s ability to use a service.

18.13

In this section references to “ taking action ” in relation to content are to—

18.13.a

taking down content,

18.13.b

restricting users’ access to content, or

18.13.c

adding warning labels to content, except warning labels normally encountered
only by child users,

and also include references to taking any other action in relation to content
on the grounds that it is content of a kind which is the subject of a relevant
term of service (but not otherwise).

18.14

A “ relevant term of service ” means a term of service which indicates to
users (in whatever words) that the presence of a particular kind of content,
from the time it is generated, uploaded or shared on the service, is not
tolerated on the service or is tolerated but liable to result in the provider
treating it in a way that makes it less likely that other users will encounter
it.

18.15

Taking any step set out in subsection (3) or  (7)  does not count as “ taking
action ” for the purposes of this section.

18.16

See—

      section 19 for the meaning of “journalistic content”;           section
55 for the meaning of “news publisher content”;           section 56 for the
meaning of “recognised news publisher”.

###### Duties to protect journalistic content

19

19.1

This section sets out the duties to protect journalistic content which apply
in relation to Category 1 services.

######### The duties

19.2

A duty to operate a service using proportionate systems and processes designed
to ensure that the importance of the free expression of journalistic content
is taken into account when making decisions about—

19.2.a

how to treat such content (especially decisions about whether to take it down
or restrict users’ access to it), and

19.2.b

whether to take action against a user generating, uploading or sharing such
content.

19.3

A duty, in relation to a decision by a provider to take down content or to
restrict access to it, to make a dedicated and expedited complaints procedure
available to a person who considers the content to be journalistic content and
who is—

19.3.a

the user who generated, uploaded or shared the content on the service, or

19.3.b

the creator of the content (see subsections  (14)  and  (15) ).

19.4

A duty to make a dedicated and expedited complaints procedure available to
users of a service in relation to a decision by the provider of the service to
take action against a user because of content generated, uploaded or shared by
the user which the user considers to be journalistic content.

19.5

A duty to ensure that—

19.5.a

if a complaint about a decision mentioned in subsection  (3)  is upheld, the
content is swiftly reinstated on the service;

19.5.b

if a complaint about a decision mentioned in subsection  (4)  is upheld, the
action against the user is swiftly reversed.

19.6

Subsections (3) and (4) do not require a provider to make a dedicated and
expedited complaints procedure available to a recognised news publisher in
relation to a decision if the provider has taken the steps set out in section
18(3) in relation to that decision.

19.7

A duty to include provisions in the terms of service specifying—

19.7.a

by what methods content present on the service is to be identified as
journalistic content;

19.7.b

how the importance of the free expression of journalistic content is to be
taken into account when making decisions mentioned in subsection  (2) ;

19.7.c

the policies and processes for handling complaints in relation to content
which is, or is considered to be, journalistic content.

19.8

A duty to ensure that—

19.8.a

the provisions of the terms of service referred to in subsection  (7)  are
clear and accessible, and

19.8.b

those provisions are applied consistently.

######### Interpretation

19.9

In determining what is proportionate for the purposes of subsection (2), the
size and capacity of the provider of a service, in particular, is relevant.

19.10

For the purposes of this Part content is “ journalistic content ”, in relation
to a user-to-user service, if—

19.10.a

the content is—

19.10.a.i

news publisher content in relation to that service, or

19.10.a.ii

regulated user-generated content in relation to that service;

19.10.b

the content is generated for the purposes of journalism; and

19.10.c

the content is UK-linked.

19.11

For the purposes of this section content is “UK-linked” if—

19.11.a

United Kingdom users of the service form one of the target markets for the
content (or the only target market), or

19.11.b

the content is or is likely to be of interest to a significant number of
United Kingdom users.

19.12

In this section references to “taking action” against a user are to giving a
warning to a user, or suspending or banning a user from using a service, or in
any way restricting a user’s ability to use a service.

19.13

In this section the reference to the “ creator ” of content is to be read in
accordance with subsections  (14)  and  (15) .

19.14

The creator of news publisher content is the recognised news publisher in
question.

19.15

The creator of content other than news publisher content is—

19.15.a

an individual who—

19.15.a.i

created the content, and

19.15.a.ii

is in the United Kingdom; or

19.15.b

an entity which—

19.15.b.i

created the content, and

19.15.b.ii

is incorporated or formed under the law of any part of the United Kingdom.

19.16

For the meaning of “news publisher content”, “regulated user-generated
content” and “recognised news publisher”, see sections 55 and 56.

##### Duties about content reporting and complaints procedures

###### Duty about content reporting

20

20.1

This section sets out the duty about content reporting which applies in
relation to all regulated user-to-user services.

20.2

A duty to operate a service using systems and processes that allow users and
affected persons to easily report content which they consider to be content of
a kind specified below (with the duty extending to different kinds of content
depending on the kind of service, as indicated by the headings).

######### All services

20.3

Illegal content.

######### Services likely to be accessed by children

20.4

Content that is harmful to children, present on a part of a service that it is
possible for children to access.

######### Interpretation

20.5

In this section “ affected person ” means a person, other than a user of the
service in question, who is in the United Kingdom and who is—

20.5.a

the subject of the content,

20.5.b

a member of a class or group of people with a certain characteristic targeted
by the content,

20.5.c

a parent of, or other adult with responsibility for, a child who is a user of
the service or is the subject of the content, or

20.5.d

an adult providing assistance in using the service to another adult who
requires such assistance, where that other adult is a user of the service or
is the subject of the content.

20.6

For the purposes of subsection  (4) , a provider is only entitled to conclude
that it is not possible for children to access a service, or a part of it, if
age verification or age estimation is used on the service with the result that
children are not normally able to access the service or that part of it.

20.7

See also—

20.7.a

section 22 (duties about freedom of expression and privacy), and

20.7.b

section 72 (5)(a)  (reporting of content that terms of service allow to be
taken down or restricted).

###### Duties about complaints procedures

21

21.1

This section sets out the duties about complaints procedures which apply in
relation to all regulated user-to-user services.

21.2

A duty to operate a complaints procedure in relation to a service that—

21.2.a

allows for relevant kinds of complaint to be made (as set out under the
headings below),

21.2.b

provides for appropriate action to be taken by the provider of the service in
response to complaints of a relevant kind, and

21.2.c

is easy to access, easy to use (including by children) and transparent.

21.3

A duty to include in the terms of service provisions which are easily
accessible (including to children) specifying the policies and processes that
govern the handling and resolution of complaints of a relevant kind.

######### All services

21.4

The following kinds of complaint are relevant for all services—

21.4.a

complaints by users and affected persons about content present on a service
which they consider to be illegal content;

21.4.b

complaints by users and affected persons if they consider that the provider is
not complying with a duty set out in—

21.4.b.i

section 10 (illegal content),

21.4.b.ii

section 20 (content reporting), or

21.4.b.iii

section 22 (2)  or  (3)  (freedom of expression and privacy);

21.4.c

complaints by a user who has generated, uploaded or shared content on a
service if that content is taken down on the basis that it is illegal content;

21.4.d

complaints by a user of a service if the provider has given a warning to the
user, suspended or banned the user from using the service, or in any other way
restricted the user’s ability to use the service, as a result of content
generated, uploaded or shared by the user which the provider considers to be
illegal content;

21.4.e

complaints by a user who has generated, uploaded or shared content on a
service if—

21.4.e.i

the use of proactive technology on the service results in that content being
taken down or access to it being restricted, or given a lower priority or
otherwise becoming less likely to be encountered by other users, and

21.4.e.ii

the user considers that the proactive technology has been used in a way not
contemplated by, or in breach of, the terms of service (for example, by
affecting content not of a kind specified in the terms of service as a kind of
content in relation to which the technology would operate).

######### Services likely to be accessed by children

21.5

The following kinds of complaint are relevant for services that are likely to
be accessed by children—

21.5.a

complaints by users and affected persons about content, present on a part of a
service that it is possible for children to access, which they consider to be
content that is harmful to children;

21.5.b

complaints by users and affected persons if they consider that the provider is
not complying with a duty set out in section 12 (children’s online safety);

21.5.c

complaints by a user who has generated, uploaded or shared content on a
service if that content is taken down, or access to it is restricted, on the
basis that it is content that is harmful to children;

21.5.d

complaints by a user of a service if the provider has given a warning to the
user, suspended or banned the user from using the service, or in any other way
restricted the user’s ability to use the service, as a result of content
generated, uploaded or shared by the user which the provider considers to be
content that is harmful to children;

21.5.e

complaints by a user who is unable to access content because measures used to
comply with a duty set out in section 12 (2)  or  (3)  have resulted in an
incorrect assessment of the user’s age.

######### Category 1 services

21.6

The relevant kind of complaint for Category 1 services is complaints by users
and affected persons if they consider that the provider is not complying with
a duty set out in—

21.6.a

section 15 (user empowerment),

21.6.b

section 17 (content of democratic importance),

21.6.c

section 18 (news publisher content),

21.6.d

section 19 (journalistic content), or

21.6.e

section 22 (4) ,  (6)  or  (7)  (freedom of expression and privacy).

######### Interpretation

21.7

In this section “ affected person ” has the meaning given by section 20.

21.8

For the purposes of subsection  (5)(a) , a provider is only entitled to
conclude that it is not possible for children to access a service, or a part
of it, if age verification or age estimation is used on the service with the
result that children are not normally able to access the service or that part
of it.

21.9

See also—

21.9.a

section 22 (duties about freedom of expression and privacy), and

21.9.b

section 72 (6)  (complaints procedure relating to content that terms of
service allow to be taken down or restricted).

##### Cross-cutting duties

###### Duties about freedom of expression and privacy

22

22.1

This section sets out the duties about freedom of expression and privacy which
apply in relation to regulated user-to-user services (as indicated by the
headings).

######### All services

22.2

When deciding on, and implementing, safety measures and policies, a duty to
have particular regard to the importance of protecting users’ right to freedom
of expression within the law.

22.3

When deciding on, and implementing, safety measures and policies, a duty to
have particular regard to the importance of protecting users from a breach of
any statutory provision or rule of law concerning privacy that is relevant to
the use or operation of a user-to-user service (including, but not limited to,
any such provision or rule concerning the processing of personal data).

######### Additional duties for Category 1 services

22.4

A duty—

22.4.a

when deciding on safety measures and policies, to carry out an assessment of
the impact that such measures or policies would have on—

22.4.a.i

users’ right to freedom of expression within the law, and

22.4.a.ii

the privacy of users; and

22.4.b

to carry out an assessment of the impact of adopted safety measures and
policies on the matters mentioned in paragraph  (a)(i)  and  (ii) .

22.5

An impact assessment relating to a service must include a section which
considers the impact of the safety measures and policies on the availability
and treatment on the service of content which is news publisher content or
journalistic content in relation to the service.

22.6

A duty to—

22.6.a

keep an impact assessment up to date, and

22.6.b

publish impact assessments.

22.7

A duty to specify in a publicly available statement the positive steps that
the provider has taken in response to an impact assessment to—

22.7.a

protect users’ right to freedom of expression within the law, and

22.7.b

protect the privacy of users.

######### Interpretation

22.8

In this section—

      “ impact assessment ” means an impact assessment under subsection  (4) ;
“ safety measures and policies ” means measures and policies designed to
secure compliance with any of the duties set out in—         section 10
(illegal content),           section 12 (children’s online safety),
section 15 (user empowerment),           section 20 (content reporting), or
section 21 (complaints procedures).

22.9

Any reference in this section to the privacy of users or steps taken to
protect the privacy of users is to be construed in accordance with subsection
(3) .

22.10

See—

      section 19 for the meaning of “journalistic content”;           section
55 for the meaning of “news publisher content”.

###### Record-keeping and review duties

23

23.1

This section sets out the record-keeping and review duties which apply in
relation to regulated user-to-user services (as indicated by the headings).

######### All services

23.2

A duty to make and keep a written record, in an easily understandable form, of
all aspects of every risk assessment under section 9 or 11, including details
about how the assessment was carried out and its findings.

23.3

A duty to make and keep a written record of any measures taken or in use to
comply with a relevant duty which—

23.3.a

are described in a code of practice and recommended for the purpose of
compliance with the duty in question, and

23.3.b

apply in relation to the provider and the service in question.

In this section such measures are referred to as “ applicable measures in a
code of practice ”.

23.4

If alternative measures have been taken or are in use to comply with a
relevant duty, a duty to make and keep a written record containing the
following information—

23.4.a

the applicable measures in a code of practice that have not been taken or are
not in use,

23.4.b

the alternative measures that have been taken or are in use,

23.4.c

how those alternative measures amount to compliance with the duty in question,
and

23.4.d

how the provider has complied with section 49(5) (freedom of expression and
privacy).

23.5

If alternative measures have been taken or are in use to comply with a duty
set out in section 10 (2)  or  (3)  or 12 (2)  or  (3) , the record required
under subsection  (4)  of this section must also indicate whether such
measures have been taken or are in use in every area listed in section 10 (4)
or 12 (8)  (as the case may be) in relation to which there are applicable
measures in a code of practice.

23.6

A duty to review compliance with the relevant duties in relation to a service—

23.6.a

regularly, and

23.6.b

as soon as reasonably practicable after making any significant change to any
aspect of the design or operation of the service.

23.7

OFCOM may provide that particular descriptions of providers of user-to-user
services are exempt from any or all of the duties set out in this section, and
may revoke such an exemption.

23.8

OFCOM must publish details of any exemption or revocation under subsection
(7) , including reasons for the revocation of an exemption.

######### Additional duties for Category 1 services

23.9

A duty to make and keep a written record, in an easily understandable form, of
all aspects of every assessment under section 14 (assessments related to the
adult user empowerment duty set out in section 15(2)), including details about
how the assessment was carried out and its findings.

23.10

As soon as reasonably practicable after making a record of an assessment as
required by subsection (2) or  (9) , or revising such a record, a duty to
supply OFCOM with a copy of the record (in full).

######### Interpretation

23.11

In this section—

      “ alternative measures ” means measures other than measures which are
(in relation to the provider and the service in question) applicable measures
in a code of practice;           “ code of practice ” means a code of practice
published under section 46;           “ relevant duties ” means the duties set
out in—         section 10 (illegal content),           section 12 (children’s
online safety),           section 15 (user empowerment),           section 17
(content of democratic importance),           section 19 (journalistic
content),           section 20 (content reporting), and           section 21
(complaints procedures),         and for the purposes of subsection (6), also
includes the duties set out in sections 18 (news publisher content), 71 and 72
(duties about terms of service), and 75 (deceased child users).

#### Providers of search services: duties of care

##### Search services: which duties apply, and scope of duties

###### Providers of search services: duties of care

24

24.1

Subsections  (2)  to  (4)  apply to determine which of the duties set out in
this Chapter must be complied with by providers of regulated search services.

24.2

All providers of regulated search services must comply with the following
duties in relation to each such service which they provide—

24.2.a

the duties about illegal content risk assessments set out in section 26,

24.2.b

the duties about illegal content set out in section 27 (2)  to  (8) ,

24.2.c

the duty about content reporting set out in section 31,

24.2.d

the duties about complaints procedures set out in section 32,

24.2.e

the duties about freedom of expression and privacy set out in section 33, and

24.2.f

the duties about record-keeping and review set out in section 34 (2)  to  (6)
.

24.3

Additional duties must be complied with by providers of particular kinds of
regulated search services, as follows.

24.4

All providers of regulated search services that are likely to be accessed by
children must comply with the following duties in relation to each such
service which they provide—

24.4.a

the duties about children’s risk assessments set out in section 28, and

24.4.b

the duties to protect children’s online safety set out in section 29 (2)  to
(8) .

24.5

All providers of regulated search services that are Category 2A services must
comply with the following duties in relation to each such service which they
provide—

24.5.a

the duty about illegal content risk assessments set out in section 27 (9) ,

24.5.b

the duty about children’s risk assessments set out in section 29 (9) , and

24.5.c

the duty about record-keeping set out in section 34 (9) .

24.6

For the meaning of “likely to be accessed by children”, see section 37.

24.7

For the meaning of “Category 2A service”, see section 95 (register of
categories of services).

###### Scope of duties of care

25

25.1

A duty set out in this Chapter which must be complied with in relation to a
search service extends only to—

25.1.a

the search content of the service,

25.1.b

the design, operation and use of the search engine in the United Kingdom, and

25.1.c

in the case of a duty that is expressed to apply in relation to users of a
service, the design, operation and use of the search engine as it affects
United Kingdom users of the service.

25.2

For the purposes of the application of this Chapter in relation to the search
engine of a combined service (see section 7 (6) )—

25.2.a

a duty set out in this Chapter which requires a matter to be included in a
publicly available statement may be satisfied by including the matter in the
terms of service;

25.2.b

references in this Chapter (except in section 24) to a search service are to
be read as references to the search engine;

25.2.c

references in this Chapter (except in section 24) to the provider of a search
service are to be read as references to the provider of the combined service.

##### Illegal content duties for search services

###### Illegal content risk assessment duties

26

26.1

This section sets out the duties about risk assessments which apply in
relation to all regulated search services.

26.2

A duty to carry out a suitable and sufficient illegal content risk assessment
at a time set out in, or as provided by, Schedule 3.

26.3

A duty to take appropriate steps to keep an illegal content risk assessment up
to date, including when OFCOM make any significant change to a risk profile
that relates to services of the kind in question.

26.4

Before making any significant change to any aspect of a service’s design or
operation, a duty to carry out a further suitable and sufficient illegal
content risk assessment relating to the impacts of that proposed change.

26.5

An “illegal content risk assessment” of a service of a particular kind means
an assessment of the following matters, taking into account the risk profile
that relates to services of that kind—

26.5.a

the level of risk of individuals who are users of the service encountering
search content of the following kinds—

26.5.a.i

each kind of priority illegal content (with each kind separately assessed),
and

26.5.a.ii

other illegal content,

taking into account (in particular) risks presented by algorithms used by the
service, and the way that the service indexes, organises and presents search
results;

26.5.b

the level of risk of functionalities of the service facilitating individuals
encountering search content that is illegal content, identifying and assessing
those functionalities that present higher levels of risk;

26.5.c

the nature, and severity, of the harm that might be suffered by individuals
from the matters identified in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b);

26.5.d

how the design and operation of the service (including the business model,
governance, use of proactive technology, measures to promote users’ media
literacy and safe use of the service, and other systems and processes) may
reduce or increase the risks identified.

26.6

In this section references to risk profiles are to the risk profiles for the
time being published under section 98 which relate to the risk of harm to
individuals presented by illegal content.

26.7

See also—

26.7.a

section 34 (2)  and  (9)  (records of risk assessments), and

26.7.b

Schedule 3 (timing of providers’ assessments).

###### Safety duties about illegal content

27

27.1

This section sets out the duties about illegal content which apply in relation
to regulated search services (as indicated by the headings).

######### All services

27.2

A duty, in relation to a service, to take or use proportionate measures
relating to the design or operation of the service to effectively mitigate and
manage the risks of harm to individuals, as identified in the most recent
illegal content risk assessment of the service (see section 26(5)(c)).

27.3

A duty to operate a service using proportionate systems and processes designed
to minimise the risk of individuals encountering search content of the
following kinds—

27.3.a

priority illegal content;

27.3.b

other illegal content that the provider knows about (having been alerted to it
by another person or become aware of it in any other way).

27.4

The duties set out in subsections  (2)  and  (3)  apply across all areas of a
service, including the way the search engine is designed, operated and used as
well as search content of the service, and (among other things) require the
provider of a service to take or use measures in the following areas, if it is
proportionate to do so—

27.4.a

regulatory compliance and risk management arrangements,

27.4.b

design of functionalities, algorithms and other features relating to the
search engine,

27.4.c

functionalities allowing users to control the content they encounter in search
results,

27.4.d

content prioritisation,

27.4.e

user support measures, and

27.4.f

staff policies and practices.

27.5

A duty to include provisions in a publicly available statement specifying how
individuals are to be protected from search content that is illegal content.

27.6

A duty to apply the provisions of the statement referred to in subsection  (5)
consistently.

27.7

A duty to include provisions in a publicly available statement giving
information about any proactive technology used by a service for the purpose
of compliance with a duty set out in subsection  (2)  or  (3)  (including the
kind of technology, when it is used, and how it works).

27.8

A duty to ensure that the provisions of the publicly available statement
referred to in subsections  (5)  and  (7)  are clear and accessible.

######### Additional duty for Category 2A services

27.9

A duty to summarise in a publicly available statement the findings of the most
recent illegal content risk assessment of a service (including as to levels of
risk and as to nature, and severity, of potential harm to individuals).

######### Interpretation

27.10

In determining what is proportionate for the purposes of this section, the
following factors, in particular, are relevant—

27.10.a

all the findings of the most recent illegal content risk assessment (including
as to levels of risk and as to nature, and severity, of potential harm to
individuals), and

27.10.b

the size and capacity of the provider of a service.

27.11

In this section “ illegal content risk assessment ” has the meaning given by
section 26.

27.12

See also, in relation to duties set out in this section, section 33 (duties
about freedom of expression and privacy).

##### Search services likely to be accessed by children

###### Children’s risk assessment duties

28

28.1

This section sets out the duties about risk assessments which apply in
relation to regulated search services that are likely to be accessed by
children (in addition to the duties about risk assessments set out in section
26).

28.2

A duty to carry out a suitable and sufficient children’s risk assessment at a
time set out in, or as provided by, Schedule 3.

28.3

A duty to take appropriate steps to keep a children’s risk assessment up to
date, including when OFCOM make any significant change to a risk profile that
relates to services of the kind in question.

28.4

Before making any significant change to any aspect of a service’s design or
operation, a duty to carry out a further suitable and sufficient children’s
risk assessment relating to the impacts of that proposed change.

28.5

A “children’s risk assessment” of a service of a particular kind means an
assessment of the following matters, taking into account the risk profile that
relates to services of that kind—

28.5.a

the level of risk of children who are users of the service encountering search
content of the following kinds—

28.5.a.i

each kind of primary priority content that is harmful to children (with each
kind separately assessed),

28.5.a.ii

each kind of priority content that is harmful to children (with each kind
separately assessed), and

28.5.a.iii

non-designated content that is harmful to children,

giving separate consideration to children in different age groups, and taking
into account (in particular) risks presented by algorithms used by the service
and the way that the service indexes, organises and presents search results;

28.5.b

the level of risk of children who are users of the service encountering search
content that is harmful to children which particularly affects individuals
with a certain characteristic or members of a certain group;

28.5.c

the extent to which the design of the service, in particular its
functionalities, affects the level of risk of harm that might be suffered by
children, identifying and assessing those functionalities that present higher
levels of risk, including a functionality that makes suggestions relating to
users’ search requests (predictive search functionality);

28.5.d

the different ways in which the service is used, including functionalities or
other features of the service that affect how much children use the service,
and the impact of such use on the level of risk of harm that might be suffered
by children;

28.5.e

the nature, and severity, of the harm that might be suffered by children from
the matters identified in accordance with paragraphs  (a)  to  (d) , giving
separate consideration to children in different age groups;

28.5.f

how the design and operation of the service (including the business model,
governance, use of proactive technology, measures to promote users’ media
literacy and safe use of the service, and other systems and processes) may
reduce or increase the risks identified.

28.6

In this section references to risk profiles are to the risk profiles for the
time being published under section 98 which relate to the risk of harm to
children presented by content that is harmful to children.

28.7

See also—

28.7.a

section 34 (2)  and  (9)  (records of risk assessments), and

28.7.b

Schedule 3 (timing of providers’ assessments).

###### Safety duties protecting children

29

29.1

This section sets out the duties to protect children’s online safety which
apply in relation to regulated search services that are likely to be accessed
by children (as indicated by the headings).

######### All services

29.2

A duty, in relation to a service, to take or use proportionate measures
relating to the design or operation of the service to effectively—

29.2.a

mitigate and manage the risks of harm to children in different age groups, as
identified in the most recent children’s risk assessment of the service (see
section 28 (5)(e) ), and

29.2.b

mitigate the impact of harm to children in different age groups presented by
search content that is harmful to children.

29.3

A duty to operate a service using proportionate systems and processes designed
to—

29.3.a

minimise the risk of children of any age encountering search content that is
primary priority content that is harmful to children;

29.3.b

minimise the risk of children in age groups judged to be at risk of harm from
other content that is harmful to children (or from a particular kind of such
content) encountering search content of that kind.

29.4

The duties set out in subsections  (2)  and  (3)  apply across all areas of a
service, including the way the search engine is designed, operated and used as
well as search content of the service, and (among other things) require the
provider of a service to take or use measures in the following areas, if it is
proportionate to do so—

29.4.a

regulatory compliance and risk management arrangements,

29.4.b

design of functionalities, algorithms and other features relating to the
search engine,

29.4.c

functionalities allowing for control over content that is encountered in
search results, especially by children,

29.4.d

content prioritisation,

29.4.e

user support measures, and

29.4.f

staff policies and practices.

29.5

A duty to include provisions in a publicly available statement specifying how
children are to be protected from search content of the following kinds—

29.5.a

primary priority content that is harmful to children (with each kind of
primary priority content separately covered),

29.5.b

priority content that is harmful to children (with each kind of priority
content separately covered), and

29.5.c

non-designated content that is harmful to children.

29.6

A duty to apply the provisions of the statement referred to in subsection  (5)
consistently.

29.7

A duty to include provisions in a publicly available statement giving
information about any proactive technology used by a service for the purpose
of compliance with a duty set out in subsection  (2)  or  (3)  (including the
kind of technology, when it is used, and how it works).

29.8

A duty to ensure that the provisions of the publicly available statement
referred to in subsections  (5)  and  (7)  are clear and accessible.

######### Additional duty for Category 2A services

29.9

A duty to summarise in a publicly available statement the findings of the most
recent children’s risk assessment of a service (including as to levels of risk
and as to nature, and severity, of potential harm to children).

###### Safety duties protecting children: interpretation

30

30.1

In determining what is proportionate for the purposes of section 29, the
following factors, in particular, are relevant—

30.1.a

all the findings of the most recent children’s risk assessment (including as
to levels of risk and as to nature, and severity, of potential harm to
children), and

30.1.b

the size and capacity of the provider of a service.

30.2

So far as a duty set out in section 29 relates to non-designated content that
is harmful to children, the duty is to be taken to extend only to addressing
risks of harm from the kinds of such content that have been identified in the
most recent children’s risk assessment (if any have been identified).

30.3

The reference in section 29 (3)(b)  to children in age groups judged to be at
risk of harm from content that is harmful to children is a reference to
children in age groups judged to be at risk of such harm as assessed by the
provider of a service in the most recent children’s risk assessment of the
service.

30.4

The duties set out in section 29 (3)  are to be taken to extend only to
content that is harmful to children where the risk of harm is presented by the
nature of the content (rather than the fact of its dissemination).

30.5

The duties set out in section 29 extend only to such parts of a service as it
is possible for children to access.

30.6

For the purposes of subsection  (5) , a provider is only entitled to conclude
that it is not possible for children to access a service, or a part of it, if
age verification or age estimation is used on the service with the result that
children are not normally able to access the service or that part of it.

30.7

In section 29 and this section “ children’s risk assessment ” has the meaning
given by section 28.

30.8

See also, in relation to duties set out in section 29, section 33 (duties
about freedom of expression and privacy).

##### Duties about content reporting and complaints procedures

###### Duty about content reporting

31

31.1

This section sets out the duty about content reporting which applies in
relation to all regulated search services.

31.2

A duty to operate a service using systems and processes that allow users and
affected persons to easily report search content which they consider to be
content of a kind specified below (with the duty extending to content that is
harmful to children depending on the kind of service, as indicated by the
headings).

######### All services

31.3

Illegal content.

######### Services likely to be accessed by children

31.4

Content that is harmful to children.

######### Interpretation

31.5

In this section “ affected person ” means a person, other than a user of the
service in question, who is in the United Kingdom and who is—

31.5.a

the subject of the content,

31.5.b

a member of a class or group of people with a certain characteristic targeted
by the content,

31.5.c

a parent of, or other adult with responsibility for, a child who is a user of
the service or is the subject of the content, or

31.5.d

an adult providing assistance in using the service to another adult who
requires such assistance, where that other adult is a user of the service or
is the subject of the content.

31.6

See also, in relation to the duty set out in this section, section 33 (duties
about freedom of expression and privacy).

###### Duties about complaints procedures

32

32.1

This section sets out the duties about complaints procedures which apply in
relation to all regulated search services.

32.2

A duty to operate a complaints procedure in relation to a service that—

32.2.a

allows for relevant kinds of complaint to be made (as set out under the
headings below),

32.2.b

provides for appropriate action to be taken by the provider of the service in
response to complaints of a relevant kind, and

32.2.c

is easy to access, easy to use (including by children) and transparent.

32.3

A duty to make the policies and processes that govern the handling and
resolution of complaints of a relevant kind publicly available and easily
accessible (including to children).

######### All services

32.4

The following kinds of complaint are relevant for all services—

32.4.a

complaints by users and affected persons about search content which they
consider to be illegal content;

32.4.b

complaints by users and affected persons if they consider that the provider is
not complying with a duty set out in—

32.4.b.i

section 27 (illegal content),

32.4.b.ii

section 31 (content reporting), or

32.4.b.iii

section 33 (freedom of expression and privacy);

32.4.c

complaints by an interested person if the provider of a search service takes
or uses measures in order to comply with a duty set out in section 27 that
result in content relating to that interested person no longer appearing in
search results or being given a lower priority in search results;

32.4.d

complaints by an interested person if—

32.4.d.i

the use of proactive technology on a search service results in content
relating to that interested person no longer appearing in search results or
being given a lower priority in search results, and

32.4.d.ii

the interested person considers that the proactive technology has been used in
a way not contemplated by, or in breach of, the provider’s policies on its use
(for example, by affecting content not of a kind specified in those policies
as a kind of content in relation to which the technology would operate).

######### Services likely to be accessed by children

32.5

The following kinds of complaint are relevant for services that are likely to
be accessed by children—

32.5.a

complaints by users and affected persons about search content which they
consider to be content that is harmful to children;

32.5.b

complaints by users and affected persons if they consider that the provider is
not complying with a duty set out in section 29 (children’s online safety);

32.5.c

complaints by an interested person if the provider of a search service takes
or uses measures in order to comply with a duty set out in section 29 that
result in content relating to that interested person no longer appearing in
search results or being given a lower priority in search results;

32.5.d

complaints by a user who is unable to access content because measures used to
comply with a duty set out in section 29 (2)  or  (3)  have resulted in an
incorrect assessment of the user’s age.

######### Interpretation

32.6

In this section—

      “ affected person ” has the meaning given by section 31;           “
interested person ” has the meaning given by section 227(7).

32.7

See also, in relation to duties set out in this section, section 33 (duties
about freedom of expression and privacy).

##### Cross-cutting duties

###### Duties about freedom of expression and privacy

33

33.1

This section sets out the duties about freedom of expression and privacy which
apply in relation to all regulated search services.

33.2

When deciding on, and implementing, safety measures and policies, a duty to
have particular regard to the importance of protecting the rights of users and
interested persons to freedom of expression within the law.

33.3

When deciding on, and implementing, safety measures and policies, a duty to
have particular regard to the importance of protecting users from a breach of
any statutory provision or rule of law concerning privacy that is relevant to
the use or operation of a search service (including, but not limited to, any
such provision or rule concerning the processing of personal data).

33.4

In this section—

      “ interested person ” has the meaning given by section 227 (7) ;
“ safety measures and policies ” means measures and policies designed to
secure compliance with any of the duties set out in—         section 27
(illegal content),           section 29 (children’s online safety),
section 31 (content reporting), or           section 32 (complaints
procedures).

###### Record-keeping and review duties

34

34.1

This section sets out the record-keeping and review duties which apply in
relation to regulated search services (as indicated by the headings).

######### All services

34.2

A duty to make and keep a written record, in an easily understandable form, of
all aspects of every risk assessment under section 26 or 28, including details
about how the assessment was carried out and its findings.

34.3

A duty to make and keep a written record of any measures taken or in use to
comply with a relevant duty which—

34.3.a

are described in a code of practice and recommended for the purpose of
compliance with the duty in question, and

34.3.b

apply in relation to the provider and the service in question.

In this section such measures are referred to as “ applicable measures in a
code of practice ”.

34.4

If alternative measures have been taken or are in use to comply with a
relevant duty, a duty to make and keep a written record containing the
following information—

34.4.a

the applicable measures in a code of practice that have not been taken or are
not in use,

34.4.b

the alternative measures that have been taken or are in use,

34.4.c

how those alternative measures amount to compliance with the duty in question,
and

34.4.d

how the provider has complied with section 49(5) (freedom of expression and
privacy).

34.5

If alternative measures have been taken or are in use to comply with a duty
set out in section 27 (2)  or  (3)  or 29 (2)  or  (3) , the record required
under subsection  (4)  of this section must also indicate whether such
measures have been taken or are in use in every area listed in subsection  (4)
of those sections in relation to which there are applicable measures in a code
of practice.

34.6

A duty to review compliance with the relevant duties in relation to a service—

34.6.a

regularly, and

34.6.b

as soon as reasonably practicable after making any significant change to any
aspect of the design or operation of the service.

34.7

OFCOM may provide that particular descriptions of providers of search services
are exempt from any or all of the duties set out in this section, and may
revoke such an exemption.

34.8

OFCOM must publish details of any exemption or revocation under subsection
(7) , including reasons for the revocation of an exemption.

######### Additional duty for Category 2A services

34.9

As soon as reasonably practicable after making a record of a risk assessment
as required by subsection  (2) , or revising such a record, a duty to supply
OFCOM with a copy of the record (in full).

######### Interpretation

34.10

In this section—

      “ alternative measures ” means measures other than measures which are
(in relation to the provider and the service in question) applicable measures
in a code of practice;           “ code of practice ” means a code of practice
published under section 46;           “ relevant duties ” means the duties set
out in—         section 27 (illegal content),           section 29 (children’s
online safety),           section 31 (content reporting), and
section 32 (complaints procedures),

and for the purposes of subsection (6), also includes the duties set out in
section 75 (deceased child users).

#### Children's access assessments

##### Children’s access assessments

35

35.1

In this Part, a “ children’s access assessment ” means an assessment of a Part
3 service—

35.1.a

to determine whether it is possible for children to access the service or a
part of the service, and

35.1.b

if it is possible for children to access the service or a part of the service,
to determine whether the child user condition is met in relation to the
service or a part of the service.

35.2

A provider is only entitled to conclude that it is not possible for children
to access a service, or a part of it, if age verification or age estimation is
used on the service with the result that children are not normally able to
access the service or that part of it.

35.3

The “child user condition” is met in relation to a service, or a part of a
service, if—

35.3.a

there is a significant number of children who are users of the service or of
that part of it, or

35.3.b

the service, or that part of it, is of a kind likely to attract a significant
number of users who are children.

35.4

For the purposes of subsection  (3) —

35.4.a

the reference to a “significant” number includes a reference to a number which
is significant in proportion to the total number of United Kingdom users of a
service or (as the case may be) a part of a service;

35.4.b

whether the test in paragraph (a) of that subsection is met is to be based on
evidence about who actually uses a service, rather than who the intended users
of the service are.

35.5

In this Chapter—

35.5.a

references to children are to children in the United Kingdom;

35.5.b

references to a part of a service do not include any part of a service that is
not, or is not included in, a user-to-user part of a service or a search
engine.

##### Duties about children’s access assessments

36

36.1

A provider of a Part 3 service must carry out the first children’s access
assessment at a time set out in, or as provided by, Schedule 3.

36.2

Subsections  (3)  and  (4)  apply to a provider of a Part 3 service during any
period when the service is not treated as likely to be accessed by children
(see section 37).

36.3

The provider must carry out children’s access assessments of the service not
more than one year apart.

36.4

The provider must carry out a children’s access assessment of the service—

36.4.a

before making any significant change to any aspect of the service’s design or
operation to which such an assessment is relevant,

36.4.b

in response to evidence about reduced effectiveness of age verification or age
estimation that is used on the service as mentioned in section 35(2), or

36.4.c

in response to evidence about a significant increase in the number of children
using the service.

36.5

If a person is the provider of more than one Part 3 service, children’s access
assessments must be carried out for each service separately.

36.6

Children’s access assessments must be suitable and sufficient for the purposes
of this Part.

36.7

A provider must make and keep a written record, in an easily understandable
form, of every children’s access assessment.

##### Meaning of “likely to be accessed by children”

37

37.1

For the purposes of this Part, a Part 3 service is to be treated as “likely to
be accessed by children” in the following three cases (with the result that
the duties set out in sections 11 and 12, or (as the case may be) sections 28
and 29, apply in relation to the service).

37.2

The first case is where a children’s access assessment carried out by the
provider of the service concludes that—

37.2.a

it is possible for children to access the service or a part of it, and

37.2.b

the child user condition is met in relation to—

37.2.b.i

the service, or

37.2.b.ii

a part of the service that it is possible for children to access.

This subsection is to be interpreted consistently with section 35.

37.3

In that case, the service is to be treated as likely to be accessed by
children from the date on which the children’s access assessment is completed.

37.4

The second case is where the provider of the service fails to carry out the
first children’s access assessment as required by section 36 (1) .

37.5

In that case—

37.5.a

the service is to be treated as likely to be accessed by children from the
date by which the first children’s access assessment was required to have been
completed (see Part 1 of Schedule 3), and

37.5.b

the service is to continue to be treated as likely to be accessed by children
by reason of subsection  (4)  until such time as the provider completes the
first children’s access assessment of the service.

37.6

The third case is where, following an investigation into a failure to comply
with a duty set out in section 36, OFCOM determine that a service should be
treated as likely to be accessed by children: see section 135 (4)  and  (5) .

37.7

In that case, the service is to be treated as likely to be accessed by
children from the date of, or specified in, the confirmation decision given to
the provider of the service (as the case may be: see section 135 (5) ).

#### Duties about fraudulent advertising

##### Duties about fraudulent advertising: Category 1 services

38

38.1

A provider of a Category 1 service must operate the service using
proportionate systems and processes designed to—

38.1.a

prevent individuals from encountering content consisting of fraudulent
advertisements by means of the service;

38.1.b

minimise the length of time for which any such content is present;

38.1.c

where the provider is alerted by a person to the presence of such content, or
becomes aware of it in any other way, swiftly take down such content.

38.2

A provider of a Category 1 service must include clear and accessible
provisions in the terms of service giving information about any proactive
technology used by the service for the purpose of compliance with the duty set
out in subsection  (1)  (including the kind of technology, when it is used,
and how it works).

38.3

In relation to a Category 1 service, an advertisement is a “fraudulent
advertisement” if—

38.3.a

it is a paid-for advertisement (see section 236),

38.3.b

it amounts to an offence specified in section 40 (construed in accordance with
section 59: see subsections  (3) ,  (11)  and  (12)  of that section), and

38.3.c

it is not regulated user-generated content (see section 55) in relation to the
service.

38.4

If a person is the provider of more than one Category 1 service, the duties
set out in this section apply in relation to each such service.

38.5

In determining what is proportionate for the purposes of this section, the
following factors, in particular, are relevant—

38.5.a

the nature, and severity, of potential harm to individuals presented by
different kinds of fraudulent advertisement, and

38.5.b

the degree of control a provider has in relation to the placement of
advertisements on the service.

38.6

In the case of a Category 1 service which is a combined service, the duties
set out in this section do not extend to—

38.6.a

fraudulent advertisements that may be encountered in search results of the
service or, following a search request, as a result of subsequent interactions
with internet services, or

38.6.b

anything relating to the design, operation or use of the search engine.

But if the service is also a Category 2A service, the duties set out in
section 39 apply as well as the duties set out in this section.

38.7

The duties set out in this section extend only to the design, operation and
use of a Category 1 service in the United Kingdom.

38.8

For the meaning of “Category 1 service”, see section 95 (register of
categories of services).

##### Duties about fraudulent advertising: Category 2A services

39

39.1

A provider of a Category 2A service must operate the service using
proportionate systems and processes designed to—

39.1.a

prevent individuals from encountering content consisting of fraudulent
advertisements in or via search results of the service;

39.1.b

if any such content may be encountered in or via search results of the
service, minimise the length of time that that is the case;

39.1.c

where the provider is alerted by a person to the fact that such content may be
so encountered, or becomes aware of that fact in any other way, swiftly ensure
that individuals are no longer able to encounter such content in or via search
results of the service.

39.2

A provider of a Category 2A service must include clear and accessible
provisions in a publicly available statement giving information about any
proactive technology used by the service for the purpose of compliance with
the duty set out in subsection  (1)  (including the kind of technology, when
it is used, and how it works).

39.3

In relation to a Category 2A service, an advertisement is a “fraudulent
advertisement” if—

39.3.a

it is a paid-for advertisement (see section 236), and

39.3.b

it amounts to an offence specified in section 40 (construed in accordance with
section 59: see subsections  (3) , (11) and (12) of that section).

39.4

The references to encountering fraudulent advertisements “in or via search
results” of a search service—

39.4.a

are references to encountering fraudulent advertisements—

39.4.a.i

in search results of the service, or

39.4.a.ii

as a result of interacting with a paid-for advertisement in search results of
the service (for example, by clicking on it);

39.4.b

do not include references to encountering fraudulent advertisements as a
result of any subsequent interactions with an internet service other than the
search service.

39.5

If a person is the provider of more than one Category 2A service, the duties
set out in this section apply in relation to each such service.

39.6

In determining what is proportionate for the purposes of this section, the
following factors, in particular, are relevant—

39.6.a

the nature, and severity, of potential harm to individuals presented by
different kinds of fraudulent advertisement, and

39.6.b

the degree of control a provider has in relation to the placement of
advertisements on the service.

39.7

The duties set out in this section extend only to the design, operation and
use of a Category 2A service in the United Kingdom.

39.8

For the meaning of “Category 2A service”, see section 95 (register of
categories of services).

##### Fraud etc offences

40

40.1

This section specifies offences for the purposes of this Chapter (see sections
38 (3)(b)  and 39 (3)(b) ).

40.2

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000—

40.2.a

section 23 (contravention of prohibition on carrying on regulated activity
unless authorised or exempt);

40.2.b

section 24 (false claims to be authorised or exempt);

40.2.c

section 25 (contravention of restrictions on financial promotion).

40.3

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Fraud Act 2006—

40.3.a

section 2 (fraud by false representation);

40.3.b

section 4 (fraud by abuse of position);

40.3.c

section 7 (making or supplying articles for use in frauds);

40.3.d

section 9 (participating in fraudulent business carried on by sole trader
etc).

40.4

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Financial Services Act
2012—

40.4.a

section 89 (misleading statements);

40.4.b

section 90 (misleading impressions).

40.5

An offence of attempting or conspiring to commit an offence specified in
subsection  (2) ,  (3)  or  (4) .

40.6

An offence under Part 2 of the Serious Crime Act 2007 (encouraging or
assisting) in relation to an offence specified in subsection  (2) ,  (3)  or
(4) , or (in Scotland) inciting a person to commit such an offence.

40.7

An offence of aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring the commission of an
offence specified in subsection  (2) ,  (3)  or  (4) , or (in Scotland) being
involved art and part in the commission of such an offence.

#### Codes of practice and guidance

##### Codes of practice

###### Codes of practice about duties

41

41.1

OFCOM must prepare and issue a code of practice for providers of Part 3
services describing measures recommended for the purpose of compliance with
duties set out in section 10 or 27 (illegal content) so far as relating to
terrorism content or offences within Schedule 5 (terrorism offences).

41.2

OFCOM must prepare and issue a code of practice for providers of Part 3
services describing measures recommended for the purpose of compliance with
duties set out in section 10 or 27 (illegal content) so far as relating to
CSEA content or offences within Schedule 6 (child sexual exploitation and
abuse offences).

41.3

OFCOM must prepare and issue one or more codes of practice for providers of
Part 3 services describing measures recommended for the purpose of compliance
with the relevant duties (except to the extent that measures for the purpose
of compliance with such duties are described in a code of practice prepared
under subsection  (1)  or  (2) ).

41.4

OFCOM must prepare and issue a code of practice for providers of Category 1
services and providers of Category 2A services describing measures recommended
for the purpose of compliance with the duties set out in Chapter 5 (fraudulent
advertising).

41.5

Where a code of practice under this section is in force, OFCOM may—

41.5.a

prepare a draft of amendments of the code of practice;

41.5.b

prepare a draft of a code of practice under subsection  (1) ,  (2) ,  (3)  or
(4)  as a replacement for a code of practice previously issued under the
subsection in question;

41.5.c

withdraw the code of practice.

41.6

In the course of preparing a draft of a code of practice or amendments of a
code of practice under this section, OFCOM must consult—

41.6.a

the Secretary of State,

41.6.b

persons who appear to OFCOM to represent providers of Part 3 services,

41.6.c

persons who appear to OFCOM to represent the interests of United Kingdom users
of Part 3 services,

41.6.d

persons who appear to OFCOM to represent the interests of children (generally
or with particular reference to online safety matters),

41.6.e

persons who appear to OFCOM to represent the interests of persons who have
suffered harm as a result of matters to which the code of practice is
relevant,

41.6.f

persons whom OFCOM consider to have relevant expertise in equality issues and
human rights, in particular—

41.6.f.i

the right to freedom of expression set out in Article 10 of the Convention,
and

41.6.f.ii

the right to respect for a person’s private and family life, home and
correspondence set out in Article 8 of the Convention,

41.6.g

the Information Commissioner,

41.6.h

the Children’s Commissioner,

41.6.i

the Commissioner for Victims and Witnesses,

41.6.j

the Domestic Abuse Commissioner,

41.6.k

persons whom OFCOM consider to have expertise in public health, science or
medicine that is relevant to online safety matters,

41.6.l

persons whom OFCOM consider to have expertise in innovation, or emerging
technology, that is relevant to online safety matters, and

41.6.m

such other persons as OFCOM consider appropriate.

41.7

In the course of preparing a draft of a code of practice or amendments to
which this subsection applies, OFCOM must also consult persons whom OFCOM
consider to have expertise in the enforcement of the criminal law and the
protection of national security that is relevant to online safety matters.

41.8

Subsection  (7)  applies to—

41.8.a

a code of practice under subsection  (1)  and amendments of such a code,

41.8.b

a code of practice under subsection  (2)  and amendments of such a code,

41.8.c

a code of practice under subsection  (3)  that describes measures recommended
for the purpose of compliance with duties set out in section 10 or 27 (illegal
content),

41.8.d

amendments of a code of practice under subsection  (3) , if and to the extent
that those amendments relate to measures recommended for the purpose of
compliance with duties set out in section 10 or 27, and

41.8.e

a code of practice under subsection  (4)  and amendments of such a code.

41.9

Subsections  (6)  and  (7)  are subject to section 48 (minor amendments of
code of practice).

41.10

In this section “ the relevant duties ” means the duties set out in—

41.10.a

sections 10 and 27 (illegal content),

41.10.b

sections 12 and 29 (children’s online safety),

41.10.c

section 15 (user empowerment),

41.10.d

section 17 (content of democratic importance),

41.10.e

section 19 (journalistic content),

41.10.f

sections 20 and 31 (content reporting), and

41.10.g

sections 21 and 32 (complaints procedures).

###### Codes of practice: principles, objectives, content

42

Schedule 4 contains—

42.a

provision about the principles OFCOM must consider when preparing codes of
practice under section 41,

42.b

the online safety objectives (and a power for the Secretary of State by
regulations to revise those objectives),

42.c

provision about the measures that may be described in codes of practice
(including, in particular, constraints on the recommendation of the use of
proactive technology), and

42.d

other provision related to codes of practice.

###### Procedure for issuing codes of practice

43

43.1

Where OFCOM have prepared a draft of a code of practice under section 41, they
must submit the draft to the Secretary of State.

43.2

Unless the Secretary of State intends to give a direction to OFCOM under
section 44 (1) ,  (2)  or  (3)  in relation to the draft, the Secretary of
State must, as soon as reasonably practicable, lay the draft before
Parliament.

43.3

If, within the 40-day period, either House of Parliament resolves not to
approve the draft—

43.3.a

OFCOM must not issue the code of practice in the form of that draft, and

43.3.b

OFCOM must prepare another draft of the code of practice under section 41.

43.4

If no such resolution is made within that period—

43.4.a

OFCOM must issue the code of practice in the form of the draft laid before
Parliament, and

43.4.b

the code of practice comes into force at the end of the period of 21 days
beginning with the day on which it is issued.

43.5

“The 40-day period” is the period of 40 days beginning with the day on which
the draft is laid before Parliament (or, if it is not laid before each House
of Parliament on the same day, the later of the days on which it is laid).

43.6

In calculating the 40-day period, no account is to be taken of any period
during which Parliament is dissolved or prorogued or during which both Houses
are adjourned for more than 4 days.

43.7

Subsections  (1)  to  (6)  apply in relation to a draft of amendments of a
code of practice prepared under section 41 as they apply in relation to a
draft of a code of practice prepared under that section.

43.8

This section is subject to section 48 (minor amendments of codes of practice).

43.9

Subsection  (11)  applies to—

43.9.a

a draft of the first code of practice prepared under section 41(1) (terrorism
code of practice);

43.9.b

a draft of the first code of practice prepared under section 41(2) (CSEA code
of practice);

43.9.c

a draft of the first code of practice prepared under section 41(3) relating to
a duty set out in section 10 or 27 (illegal content);

43.9.d

a draft of the first code of practice prepared under section 41(3) relating to
a duty set out in section 12 or 29 (children’s online safety);

43.9.e

a draft of the first code of practice prepared under section 41(3) relating to
a duty set out in section 20 or 31 (content reporting);

43.9.f

a draft of the first code of practice prepared under section 41(3) relating
to—

43.9.f.i

a duty set out in section 21 (complaints procedures) that concerns complaints
of a kind mentioned in subsection (4) or (5) of that section, or

43.9.f.ii

a duty set out in section 32 (complaints procedures).

43.10

For the purposes of paragraphs  (c)  to (f) of subsection  (9)  a draft of a
code of practice is a draft of the first code of practice relating to a duty
if—

43.10.a

it describes measures recommended for the purpose of compliance with the duty,
and

43.10.b

it is a draft of the first code of practice prepared under section 41(3) that
describes measures for that purpose.

43.11

OFCOM must submit a draft to which this subsection applies to the Secretary of
State under subsection (1) within the period of 18 months beginning with the
day on which this Act is passed.

43.12

If OFCOM consider that it is necessary to extend the period mentioned in
subsection  (11)  in relation to a draft mentioned in any of paragraphs  (a)
to (f) of subsection  (9) , OFCOM may extend the period in relation to that
draft by up to 12 months by making and publishing a statement.

But this is subject to subsection (15).

43.13

A statement under subsection  (12)  must set out—

43.13.a

the reasons why OFCOM consider that it is necessary to extend the period
mentioned in subsection  (11)  in relation to the draft concerned, and

43.13.b

the period of extension.

43.14

A statement under subsection (12) may be published at the same time as (or
incorporate) a statement under section 194 (3)  (extension of time to prepare
certain guidance).

43.15

But a statement under subsection (12) may not be made in relation to a draft
mentioned in a particular paragraph of subsection (9) if—

43.15.a

a statement has previously been made under subsection (12) (whether in
relation to a draft mentioned in the same or a different paragraph of
subsection (9)), or

43.15.b

a statement has previously been made under section 194 (3) .

###### Secretary of State’s powers of direction

44

44.1

The Secretary of State may direct OFCOM to modify a draft of a code of
practice submitted under section 43(1) if the Secretary of State believes that
modifications are required for the purpose of securing compliance with an
international obligation of the United Kingdom.

44.2

The Secretary of State may direct OFCOM to modify a draft of a code of
practice, other than a terrorism or CSEA code of practice, submitted under
section 43(1) if the Secretary of State believes that modifications are
required for exceptional reasons relating to—

44.2.a

national security,

44.2.b

public safety,

44.2.c

public health, or

44.2.d

relations with the government of a country outside the United Kingdom.

44.3

The Secretary of State may direct OFCOM to modify a draft of a terrorism or
CSEA code of practice submitted under section 43 (1)  if the Secretary of
State believes that modifications are required—

44.3.a

for reasons of national security or public safety, or

44.3.b

for exceptional reasons relating to public health or relations with the
government of a country outside the United Kingdom.

44.4

But if a draft of a terrorism or CSEA code of practice is submitted under
section 43 (1)  following a review under section 47 (2) , the Secretary of
State may only direct OFCOM to modify the draft if the Secretary of State
believes that modifications are required for reasons of national security or
public safety.

44.5

If, following a review of a terrorism or CSEA code of practice under section
47 (2) , OFCOM submit a statement to the Secretary of State under section 47
(3)(b)  (“OFCOM’s review statement”), the Secretary of State may direct OFCOM
to modify the code of practice if the Secretary of State believes that
modifications are required for reasons of national security or public safety.

44.6

A direction given under subsection  (5) —

44.6.a

must be given within the period of 45 days beginning with the day on which
OFCOM’s review statement is submitted to the Secretary of State, and

44.6.b

must make particular reference to OFCOM’s review statement.

44.7

A direction given under this section—

44.7.a

may not require OFCOM to include in a code of practice provision about a
particular measure recommended to be taken or used by providers of Part 3
services,

44.7.b

must set out the Secretary of State’s reasons for requiring modifications,
except in a case where the Secretary of State considers that doing so would be
against the interests of national security, public safety or relations with
the government of a country outside the United Kingdom, and

44.7.c

must, as soon as reasonably practicable, be published and laid before
Parliament.

44.8

If the Secretary of State considers that publishing and laying before
Parliament a direction given under this section would be against the interests
of national security, public safety or relations with the government of a
country outside the United Kingdom—

44.8.a

subsection (7)(c) does not apply in relation to the direction, and

44.8.b

the Secretary of State must, as soon as reasonably practicable, publish and
lay before Parliament a document stating—

44.8.b.i

that a direction has been given,

44.8.b.ii

the kind of code of practice to which it relates, and

44.8.b.iii

the reasons for not publishing it.

44.9

If the Secretary of State gives a direction under this section, OFCOM must, as
soon as reasonably practicable—

44.9.a

comply with the direction,

44.9.b

submit to the Secretary of State a draft of the code of practice modified in
accordance with the direction,

44.9.c

submit to the Secretary of State a document containing—

44.9.c.i

(except in a case mentioned in subsection  (7)(b) ) details of the direction,
and

44.9.c.ii

details about how the draft has been revised in response to the direction,

44.9.d

publish the document, and

44.9.e

inform the Secretary of State about modifications that OFCOM have made to the
draft that are not in response to the direction (if there are any).

44.10

The Secretary of State may give OFCOM one or more further directions requiring
OFCOM to modify the draft of the code of practice.

44.11

Such further directions may only be given for the reasons set out in
subsection  (1) ,  (2) ,  (3) ,  (4)  or  (5)  (as the case may be), and
subsections  (7)  to  (9)  apply again in relation to such further directions.

44.12

When the Secretary of State is satisfied that no further modifications to the
draft are required, the Secretary of State must, as soon as reasonably
practicable, lay before Parliament—

44.12.a

the modified draft,

44.12.b

any document submitted by OFCOM as mentioned in subsection  (9)(c) , and

44.12.c

in the case of a direction under subsection  (5) , OFCOM’s review statement.

44.13

Before laying OFCOM’s review statement before Parliament, the Secretary of
State may, with OFCOM’s agreement, remove or obscure information in the
statement (whether by redaction or otherwise) in order to prevent the
disclosure of matters that the Secretary of State considers would be against
the interests of national security, public safety or relations with the
government of a country outside the United Kingdom.

44.14

This section applies in relation to a draft of amendments of a code of
practice submitted under section 43 (1)  as it applies in relation to a draft
of a code of practice submitted under that provision.

44.15

In this section “ terrorism or CSEA code of practice ” means a code of
practice under section 41 (1)  or  (2) .

###### Procedure for issuing codes of practice following direction under section 44

45

45.1

This section sets out the procedure that applies where a draft of a code of
practice is laid before Parliament under section 44 (12) .

45.2

If the draft contains modifications made following a direction given under
section 44 (1) ,  (2)  or  (3)(b) , the affirmative procedure applies.

45.3

If the draft contains modifications made following a direction given under
section 44 (3)(a) ,  (4)  or  (5) , the negative procedure applies.

45.4

The “affirmative procedure” is as follows—

45.4.a

a code of practice in the form of the draft laid before Parliament must not be
issued by OFCOM unless the draft has been approved by a resolution of each
House of Parliament;

45.4.b

if the draft is so approved, the code of practice comes into force at the end
of the period of 21 days beginning with the day on which it is issued;

45.4.c

if the draft is not so approved, OFCOM must prepare another draft of the code
of practice under section 41.

45.5

The “negative procedure” is as follows—

45.5.a

if, within the 40-day period, either House of Parliament resolves not to
approve the draft—

45.5.a.i

OFCOM must not issue the code of practice in the form of that draft, and

45.5.a.ii

OFCOM must prepare another draft of the code of practice under section 41;

45.5.b

if no such resolution is made within that period—

45.5.b.i

OFCOM must issue the code of practice in the form of the draft laid before
Parliament, and

45.5.b.ii

the code of practice comes into force at the end of the period of 21 days
beginning with the day on which it is issued.

45.6

“ The 40-day period ” has the same meaning as in section 43 (see subsections
(5)  and  (6)  of that section).

45.7

This section applies in relation to a draft of amendments of a code of
practice laid before Parliament under section 44 (12)  as it applies in
relation to a draft of a code of practice laid under that provision.

###### Publication of codes of practice

46

46.1

OFCOM must publish each code of practice issued under section 43 or 45 within
the period of three days beginning with the day on which it is issued.

46.2

Where amendments of a code of practice are issued under either of those
sections, OFCOM must publish the amended code of practice within the period of
three days beginning with the day on which the amendments are issued.

46.3

Where a code of practice is withdrawn, OFCOM must publish a notice to that
effect.

###### Review of codes of practice

47

47.1

OFCOM must keep under review each code of practice published under section 46.

47.2

The Secretary of State may require OFCOM to review a terrorism or CSEA code of
practice published under section 46 if the Secretary of State considers a
review to be necessary for reasons of national security or public safety (and
the Secretary of State must notify OFCOM whether the reasons fall into the
category of national security or public safety).

47.3

OFCOM must carry out a review of the code of practice under subsection  (2)
as soon as reasonably practicable, and when it is completed—

47.3.a

if OFCOM consider that changes are required, they must prepare a draft of
amendments to the code of practice or a draft of a replacement code of
practice under section 41, or

47.3.b

if OFCOM consider that no changes are required, they must submit to the
Secretary of State a statement which explains the reasons for that conclusion.

47.4

Subsection  (5)  applies if—

47.4.a

OFCOM submit a statement under subsection  (3)(b)  to the Secretary of State,

47.4.b

the period of 45 days beginning with the day on which the statement was
submitted has elapsed, and

47.4.c

the Secretary of State has not given a direction under section 44 (5) .

47.5

OFCOM must publish the statement as soon as reasonably practicable after the
end of the period mentioned in subsection  (4)(b) , making it clear which code
of practice the statement relates to.

47.6

In advance of publication, the Secretary of State may make representations to
OFCOM about the desirability of removing or obscuring information in the
statement (whether by redaction or otherwise) in order to prevent the
disclosure of matters that the Secretary of State considers would be against
the interests of national security, public safety or relations with the
government of a country outside the United Kingdom (and see also section 116
(3) ).

47.7

In this section “ terrorism or CSEA code of practice ” means a code of
practice under section 41 (1)  or  (2) .

###### Minor amendments of codes of practice

48

48.1

This section applies if—

48.1.a

OFCOM propose to amend a code of practice under section 41, and

48.1.b

OFCOM consider that the minor nature of the proposal means that—

48.1.b.i

consultation is unnecessary, and

48.1.b.ii

the proposed amendments should not be required to be laid before Parliament.

48.2

OFCOM must notify the Secretary of State of the proposed amendments.

48.3

If the Secretary of State agrees with OFCOM that it is appropriate—

48.3.a

the consultation requirements set out in section 41 (6)  and  (7)  do not
apply in relation to the proposed amendments, and

48.3.b

section 43 does not apply to the amendments, once prepared.

48.4

If the Secretary of State agrees with OFCOM as mentioned in subsection  (3) ,
OFCOM may prepare and issue the amendments of the code of practice.

48.5

Amendments of a code of practice issued under this section come into force at
the end of the period of 21 days beginning with the day on which the
amendments are issued.

48.6

Section 46 (2)  applies in relation to amendments of a code of practice issued
under this section as it applies in relation to amendments of a code of
practice issued under section 43 or 45.

###### Relationship between duties and codes of practice

49

######### Duties set out in Chapters 2 and 3

49.1

A provider of a Part 3 service is to be treated as complying with a relevant
duty if the provider takes or uses the measures described in a code of
practice which are recommended for the purpose of compliance with the duty in
question.

49.2

A provider of a user-to-user service—

49.2.a

is to be treated as complying with the duty set out in section 22 (2)
(freedom of expression) if the provider takes or uses such of the relevant
recommended measures as incorporate safeguards to protect users’ right to
freedom of expression within the law;

49.2.b

is to be treated as complying with the duty set out in section 22 (3)
(privacy) if the provider takes or uses such of the relevant recommended
measures as incorporate safeguards to protect the privacy of users.

49.3

A provider of a search service—

49.3.a

is to be treated as complying with the duty set out in section 33 (2)
(freedom of expression) if the provider takes or uses such of the relevant
recommended measures as incorporate safeguards to protect the rights of users
and interested persons to freedom of expression within the law;

49.3.b

is to be treated as complying with the duty set out in section 33 (3)
(privacy) if the provider takes or uses such of the relevant recommended
measures as incorporate safeguards to protect the privacy of users.

######### Duties set out in Chapter 5

49.4

A provider of a Category 1 service or a Category 2A service (or a provider of
a service which is both a Category 1 service and a Category 2A service) is to
be treated as complying with a duty set out in Chapter 5 if the provider takes
or uses the measures described in a fraudulent advertising code of practice
which are recommended for the purpose of compliance with the duty in question.

######### Alternative measures

49.5

A provider of a Part 3 service who seeks to comply with a relevant duty by
acting otherwise than by taking or using a measure described in a code of
practice or a fraudulent advertising code of practice which is recommended for
the purpose of compliance with the duty must have particular regard to the
importance of the following (where relevant)—

49.5.a

protecting the right of users and (in the case of search services) interested
persons to freedom of expression within the law, and

49.5.b

protecting the privacy of users.

49.6

When assessing whether a provider of a Part 3 service is compliant with a
relevant duty where the provider has acted otherwise than by taking or using a
measure described in a code of practice or a fraudulent advertising code of
practice which is recommended for the purpose of compliance with the duty,
OFCOM must consider the extent to which the alternative measures taken or in
use by the provider—

49.6.a

extend across all areas of a service as mentioned in section 10 (4) , 12 (8) ,
27 (4)  or 29 (4)  (if relevant to the duty in question), and

49.6.b

(where appropriate) incorporate safeguards for the protection of the matters
mentioned in subsection  (5)(a)  and  (b) .

######### Interpretation

49.7

In subsections  (1)  to  (4) , references to taking or using measures
recommended for the purpose of compliance with a duty, or to taking or using
relevant recommended measures, are to taking or using such of those measures
as are relevant to the provider and the service in question.

49.8

In this section—

49.8.a

references to protecting the privacy of users are to protecting users from a
breach of any statutory provision or rule of law concerning privacy that is
relevant to the use or operation of a user-to-user service or search service
(including, but not limited to, any such provision or rule concerning the
processing of personal data);

49.8.b

references to a search service include references to a combined service (see
section 7 (6) ).

49.9

In this section—

      “ Chapter 2 safety duty ” means a duty set out in—         section 10
(illegal content), or           section 12 (children’s online safety);
“ Chapter 3 safety duty ” means a duty set out in—         section 27 (illegal
content), or           section 29 (children’s online safety);
“ code of practice ” means a code of practice published under section 46,
except a fraudulent advertising code of practice;           “ fraudulent
advertising code of practice ” means a code of practice prepared under section
41 (4)  and published under section 46;           “ relevant duty ” means—
a Chapter 2 safety duty,           a Chapter 3 safety duty,           a duty
set out in section 15 (user empowerment),           a duty set out in section
17 (content of democratic importance),           a duty set out in section 19
(journalistic content),           a duty set out in section 20 or 31 (content
reporting), or           a duty set out in section 21 or 32 (complaints
procedures);                 “ relevant recommended measures ” means the
measures described in a code of practice which are recommended for the purpose
of compliance with—         in the case of a user-to-user service—         a
Chapter 2 safety duty, or           a duty set out in section 15 (user
empowerment);                 in the case of a search service, a Chapter 3
safety duty.

###### Effects of codes of practice

50

50.1

A failure by a provider of a Part 3 service to act in accordance with a
provision of a code of practice does not of itself make the provider liable to
legal proceedings in a court or tribunal.

50.2

A code of practice is admissible in evidence in legal proceedings.

50.3

In any proceedings in a court or tribunal, the court or tribunal must take
into account a provision of a code of practice in determining a question
arising in the proceedings if—

50.3.a

the question relates to a time when the provision was in force, and

50.3.b

the provision appears to the court or tribunal to be relevant to the question.

50.4

OFCOM must take into account a provision of a code of practice in determining
a question arising in connection with their exercise of any relevant function
if—

50.4.a

the question relates to a time when the provision was in force, and

50.4.b

the provision appears to OFCOM to be relevant to the question.

50.5

In this section—

      “ code of practice ” means a code of practice published under section
46;           “ relevant functions ” means OFCOM’s functions under—
Chapter 4 of Part 7 (information),           Chapter 5 of Part 7 (notices to
deal with terrorism content and CSEA content),           Chapter 6 of Part 7
(enforcement), and           Chapter 2 of Part 8 (super-complaints).

###### Duties and the first codes of practice

51

51.1

A duty mentioned in subsection  (3)  applies to providers of Part 3 services
from the day on which a code of practice prepared under section 41 (3)  that
is the first code of practice relating to that duty comes into force.

51.2

In the case of the duties set out in sections 10 and 27, subsection  (1)  is
subject to subsections  (5)  and  (6) .

51.3

The duties referred to in subsection  (1)  are the duties set out in—

51.3.a

sections 10 and 27 (illegal content),

51.3.b

sections 12 and 29 (children’s online safety),

51.3.c

section 15 (user empowerment),

51.3.d

section 17 (content of democratic importance),

51.3.e

section 19 (journalistic content),

51.3.f

sections 20 and 31 (content reporting), and

51.3.g

sections 21 and 32 (complaints procedures).

51.4

For the purposes of subsection  (1)  a code of practice is the first code of
practice relating to a duty if—

51.4.a

it describes measures recommended for the purpose of compliance with that
duty, and

51.4.b

it is the first code of practice prepared under section 41 (3)  that describes
measures for that purpose.

51.5

The duties set out in sections 10 and 27, so far as relating to terrorism
content or offences within Schedule 5 (terrorism offences), apply to providers
of Part 3 services from the day on which the first code of practice prepared
under section 41 (1)  comes into force.

51.6

The duties set out in sections 10 and 27, so far as relating to CSEA content
or offences within Schedule 6 (child sexual exploitation and abuse offences),
apply to providers of Part 3 services from the day on which the first code of
practice prepared under section 41 (2)  comes into force.

51.7

The duties set out in Chapter 5 (fraudulent advertising) apply to providers of
a Category 1 service and providers of a Category 2A service (and to providers
of a service which is both a Category 1 service and a Category 2A service)
from the day on which the first code of practice prepared under section 41 (4)
comes into force.

51.8

In relation to the provider of a particular Part 3 service, references in this
section to duties applying to providers of Part 3 services (or to providers of
Category 1 services or Category 2A services) are to such duties as apply in
relation to that service in accordance with sections 7 and 24 or (as the case
may be) Chapter 5.

51.9

This section is subject to Part 2 of Schedule 17 (video-sharing platform
services: transitional provision etc).

##### Guidance

###### OFCOM’s guidance about certain duties in Part 3

52

52.1

OFCOM must produce guidance for providers of Category 1 services to assist
them in complying with their duties set out in section 14 (assessments related
to the adult user empowerment duty set out in section 15(2)).

52.2

OFCOM must produce guidance for providers of Category 1 services to assist
them in complying with their duties set out in section 18 (news publisher
content).

52.3

OFCOM must produce guidance for providers of Part 3 services to assist them in
complying with—

52.3.a

their duties set out in section 23 or 34, except the duty set out in section
23(10) or 34(9) (record-keeping and review), and

52.3.b

their duties set out in section 36 (children’s access assessments).

52.4

Before producing guidance under subsection  (1)  or  (3)  (including revised
or replacement guidance), OFCOM must consult the Information Commissioner.

52.5

OFCOM must publish guidance under this section (and any revised or replacement
guidance).

###### OFCOM’s guidance: content that is harmful to children and user empowerment

53

53.1

OFCOM must produce guidance for providers of Part 3 services which contains
examples of content or kinds of content that OFCOM consider to be, or consider
not to be—

53.1.a

primary priority content that is harmful to children, or

53.1.b

priority content that is harmful to children.

53.2

OFCOM must produce guidance for providers of Category 1 services which
contains examples of content or kinds of content that OFCOM consider to be, or
consider not to be, content to which section 15(2) applies (see section 16).

53.3

Before producing any guidance under this section (including revised or
replacement guidance), OFCOM must consult such persons as they consider
appropriate.

53.4

OFCOM must publish guidance under this section (and any revised or replacement
guidance).

###### OFCOM’s guidance about protecting women and girls

54

54.1

OFCOM must produce guidance for providers of Part 3 services which focuses on
content and activity—

54.1.a

in relation to which such providers have duties set out in this Part or Part
4, and

54.1.b

which disproportionately affects women and girls.

54.2

The guidance may, among other things—

54.2.a

contain advice and examples of best practice for assessing risks of harm to
women and girls from content and activity mentioned in subsection (1), and for
reducing such risks;

54.2.b

refer to provisions contained in a code of practice under section 41 which are
particularly relevant to the protection of women and girls from such content
and activity.

54.3

Before producing the guidance (including revised or replacement guidance),
OFCOM must consult—

54.3.a

the Commissioner for Victims and Witnesses,

54.3.b

the Domestic Abuse Commissioner, and

54.3.c

such other persons as OFCOM consider appropriate.

54.4

OFCOM must publish the guidance (and any revised or replacement guidance).

#### Interpretation of Part 3

##### “Regulated user-generated content”, “user-generated content”, “news publisher content”

55

55.1

This section applies for the purposes of this Part.

55.2

“ Regulated user-generated content ”, in relation to a regulated user-to-user
service, means user-generated content, except—

55.2.a

emails,

55.2.b

SMS messages,

55.2.c

MMS messages,

55.2.d

one-to-one live aural communications (see subsection  (5) ),

55.2.e

comments and reviews on provider content (see subsection  (6) ),

55.2.f

identifying content that accompanies content within any of paragraphs (a) to
(e), and

55.2.g

news publisher content (see subsection  (8) ).

55.3

“ User-generated content ”, in relation to a user-to-user service, means
content—

55.3.a

that is—

55.3.a.i

generated directly on the service by a user of the service, or

55.3.a.ii

uploaded to or shared on the service by a user of the service, and

55.3.b

that may be encountered by another user, or other users, of the service by
means of the service.

55.4

For the purposes of subsection  (3) —

55.4.a

the reference to content generated, uploaded or shared by a user includes
content generated, uploaded or shared by means of software or an automated
tool applied by the user;

55.4.b

a bot or other automated tool is to be regarded as a user of a service if—

55.4.b.i

the functions of the bot or tool include interacting with user-generated
content, and

55.4.b.ii

the bot or tool is not controlled by or on behalf of the provider of the
service.

55.5

“ One-to-one live aural communications ”, in relation to a user-to-user
service, means content—

55.5.a

consisting of speech or other sounds conveyed in real time between two users
of the service by means of the service,

55.5.b

that is not a recording, and

55.5.c

that is not accompanied by user-generated content of any other kind, except
identifying content.

55.6

“ Comments and reviews on provider content ”, in relation to a user-to-user
service, means content present on the service consisting of comments or
reviews relating to provider content (together with any further comments on
such comments or reviews).

55.7

In subsection (6) “ provider content ” means content published on a service by
the provider of the service or by a person acting on behalf of the provider,
including where the publication of the content is effected or controlled by
means of—

55.7.a

software or an automated tool or algorithm applied by the provider or by a
person acting on behalf of the provider, or

55.7.b

an automated tool or algorithm made available on the service by the provider
or by a person acting on behalf of the provider.

For the purposes of subsection  (6) , content that is user-generated content
in relation to a service is not to be regarded as provider content in relation
to that service.

55.8

“ News publisher content ”, in relation to a regulated user-to-user service,
means any content present on the service that is within subsection  (9)  or
(10) .

55.9

Content is within this subsection if it was generated directly on the service
by a user of the service that is a recognised news publisher.

55.10

Content is within this subsection if—

55.10.a

the content was uploaded to or shared on the service by a user of the service,
and

55.10.b

the content either—

55.10.b.i

reproduces in full an article or written item that was originally published by
a recognised news publisher (and is not a screenshot or photograph of that
article or item or of part of it),

55.10.b.ii

is video or audio content that was originally published or broadcast by a
recognised news publisher, and is not a clipped or edited form of such content
(unless it is the recognised news publisher who has clipped or edited it), or

55.10.b.iii

is a link to an article or item within sub-paragraph (i) or to content within
sub-paragraph (ii).

55.11

For the meaning of “recognised news publisher”, see section 56.

55.12

In this section—

      “ MMS message ” means a Multimedia Messaging Service message (that may
include images, sounds and short videos) that may be sent between telephone
numbers allocated in accordance with a national or international numbering
plan;           “ SMS message ” means a Short Message Service text message
composed principally of letters or numbers that may be sent between telephone
numbers allocated in accordance with a national or international numbering
plan.

##### “Recognised news publisher”

56

56.1

In this Part, “ recognised news publisher ” means any of the following
entities—

56.1.a

the British Broadcasting Corporation,

56.1.b

Sianel Pedwar Cymru,

56.1.c

the holder of a licence under the Broadcasting Act 1990 or 1996 who publishes
news-related material in connection with the broadcasting activities
authorised under the licence, and

56.1.d

any other entity which—

56.1.d.i

meets all of the conditions in subsection  (2) ,

56.1.d.ii

is not an excluded entity (see subsection  (3) ), and

56.1.d.iii

is not a sanctioned entity (see subsection  (4) ).

56.2

The conditions referred to in subsection  (1)(d)(i)  are that the entity—

56.2.a

has as its principal purpose the publication of news-related material, and
such material—

56.2.a.i

is created by different persons, and

56.2.a.ii

is subject to editorial control,

56.2.b

publishes such material in the course of a business (whether or not carried on
with a view to profit),

56.2.c

is subject to a standards code,

56.2.d

has policies and procedures for handling and resolving complaints,

56.2.e

has a registered office or other business address in the United Kingdom,

56.2.f

is the person with legal responsibility for material published by it in the
United Kingdom, and

56.2.g

publishes—

56.2.g.i

the entity’s name, the address mentioned in paragraph (e) and the entity’s
registered number (if any), and

56.2.g.ii

the name and address of any person who controls the entity (including, where
such a person is an entity, the address of that person’s registered or
principal office and that person’s registered number (if any)).

56.3

An “excluded entity” is an entity—

56.3.a

which is a proscribed organisation under the Terrorism Act 2000 (see section 3
of that Act), or

56.3.b

the purpose of which is to support a proscribed organisation under that Act.

56.4

A “sanctioned entity” is an entity which—

56.4.a

is designated by name under a power contained in regulations under section 1
of the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018 that authorises the
Secretary of State or the Treasury to designate persons for the purposes of
the regulations or of any provisions of the regulations, or

56.4.b

is a designated person under any provision included in such regulations by
virtue of section 13 of that Act (persons named by or under UN Security
Council Resolutions).

56.5

For the purposes of subsection  (2) —

56.5.a

news-related material is “subject to editorial control” if there is a person
(whether or not the publisher of the material) who has editorial or equivalent
responsibility for the material, including responsibility for how it is
presented and the decision to publish it;

56.5.b

“ control ” has the same meaning as it has in the Broadcasting Act 1990 by
virtue of section 202 of that Act.

56.6

In this section—

      “ news-related material ” means material consisting of—         news or
information about current affairs,           opinion about matters relating to
the news or current affairs, or           gossip about celebrities, other
public figures or other persons in the news;                 “ publish ” means
publish by any means (including by broadcasting), and references to a
publisher and publication are to be construed accordingly;           “
standards code ” means—         a code of standards that regulates the conduct
of publishers, that is published by an independent regulator, or           a
code of standards that regulates the conduct of the entity in question, that
is published by the entity itself.

##### “Search content”, “search results” etc

57

57.1

This section applies for the purposes of this Part.

57.2

“ Search content ” means content that may be encountered in or via search
results of a search service, except—

57.2.a

paid-for advertisements (see section 236),

57.2.b

content on the website of a recognised news publisher (see section 56), and

57.2.c

content that—

57.2.c.i

reproduces in full an article or written item that was originally published by
a recognised news publisher (and is not a screenshot or photograph of that
article or item or of part of it),

57.2.c.ii

is video or audio content that was originally published or broadcast by a
recognised news publisher, and is not a clipped or edited form of such content
(unless it is the recognised news publisher who has clipped or edited it), or

57.2.c.iii

is a link to an article or item within sub-paragraph (i) or to content within
sub-paragraph (ii).

57.3

“ Search results ”, in relation to a search service, means content presented
to a user of the service by operation of the search engine in response to a
search request made by the user.

57.4

“ Search ” means search by any means, including by input of text or images or
by speech, and references to a search request are to be construed accordingly.

57.5

In subsection (2), the reference to encountering content “via search results”—

57.5.a

is to encountering content as a result of interacting with search results (for
example, by clicking on them);

57.5.b

does not include a reference to encountering content as a result of subsequent
interactions with an internet service other than the search service.

57.6

In this section references to a search service include references to a user-
to-user service that includes a search engine.

##### Restricting users’ access to content

58

58.1

This section applies for the purposes of this Part.

58.2

References to restricting users’ access to content, and related references,
include any case where a provider takes or uses a measure which has the effect
that—

58.2.a

a user is unable to access content without taking a prior step (whether or not
taking that step might result in access being denied), or

58.2.b

content is temporarily hidden from a user.

58.3

But such references do not include any case where—

58.3.a

the effect mentioned in subsection (2) results from the voluntary use or
application by a user of features, functionalities or settings which a
provider includes in a service (for example, features, functionalities or
settings included in compliance with the duty set out in section 15 (2)  or
(9)  (user empowerment)), or

58.3.b

access to content is controlled by another user, rather than the provider.

58.4

See also section 236 (6) .

##### “Illegal content” etc

59

59.1

This section applies for the purposes of this Part.

59.2

“ Illegal content ” means content that amounts to a relevant offence.

59.3

Content consisting of certain words, images, speech or sounds amounts to a
relevant offence if—

59.3.a

the use of the words, images, speech or sounds amounts to a relevant offence,

59.3.b

the possession, viewing or accessing of the content constitutes a relevant
offence, or

59.3.c

the publication or dissemination of the content constitutes a relevant
offence.

59.4

“ Relevant offence ” means—

59.4.a

a priority offence, or

59.4.b

an offence within subsection (5).

59.5

An offence is within this subsection if—

59.5.a

it is not a priority offence,

59.5.b

the victim or intended victim of the offence is an individual (or
individuals), and

59.5.c

the offence is created by this Act or, before or after this Act is passed, by—

59.5.c.i

another Act,

59.5.c.ii

an Order in Council,

59.5.c.iii

an order, rules or regulations made under an Act by the Secretary of State or
other Minister of the Crown, including such an instrument made jointly with a
devolved authority, or

59.5.c.iv

devolved subordinate legislation made by a devolved authority with the consent
of the Secretary of State or other Minister of the Crown.

59.6

But an offence is not within subsection (5) if—

59.6.a

the offence concerns—

59.6.a.i

the infringement of intellectual property rights,

59.6.a.ii

the safety or quality of goods (as opposed to what kind of goods they are), or

59.6.a.iii

the performance of a service by a person not qualified to perform it; or

59.6.b

it is an offence under the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations
2008 ( S.I. 2008/1277 ).

59.7

“ Priority offence ” means—

59.7.a

an offence specified in Schedule 5 (terrorism offences),

59.7.b

an offence specified in Schedule 6 (offences related to child sexual
exploitation and abuse), or

59.7.c

an offence specified in Schedule 7 (other priority offences).

59.8

“ Terrorism content ” means content that amounts to an offence specified in
Schedule 5.

59.9

“ CSEA content ” means content that amounts to an offence specified in
Schedule 6.

59.10

“ Priority illegal content ” means—

59.10.a

terrorism content,

59.10.b

CSEA content, and

59.10.c

content that amounts to an offence specified in Schedule 7.

59.11

For the purposes of determining whether content amounts to an offence, no
account is to be taken of whether or not anything done in relation to the
content takes place in any part of the United Kingdom.

59.12

References in subsection (3) to conduct of particular kinds are not to be
taken to prevent content generated by a bot or other automated tool from being
capable of amounting to an offence (see also section 192(7) (providers’
judgements about the status of content)).

59.13

Subsection  (14)  applies in relation to a regulated user-to-user service
(but, in the case of a combined service, does not apply in relation to the
search content of the service).

59.14

References to “illegal content”, “terrorism content”, “CSEA content” and
“priority illegal content” are to be read as—

59.14.a

limited to content within the definition in question that is regulated user-
generated content in relation to the service, and

59.14.b

including material which, if it were present on the service, would be content
within paragraph  (a)  (and this section is to be read with such modifications
as may be necessary for the purpose of this paragraph).

59.15

In this section—

      “ devolved authority ” means—         the Scottish Ministers,
the Welsh Ministers, or           a Northern Ireland department;
“ devolved subordinate legislation ” means—         an instrument made under
an Act of the Scottish Parliament,           an instrument made under an Act
or Measure of Senedd Cymru, or           an instrument made under Northern
Ireland legislation;                 “ Minister of the Crown ” has the meaning
given by section 8 of the Ministers of the Crown Act 1975 and also includes
the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs;           “ offence ”
means an offence under the law of any part of the United Kingdom.

59.16

See also section 192 (providers’ judgements about the status of content).

##### “Content that is harmful to children”

60

60.1

This section and sections 61 and 62 apply for the purposes of this Part.

60.2

“ Content that is harmful to children ” means—

60.2.a

primary priority content that is harmful to children (see section 61),

60.2.b

priority content that is harmful to children (see section 62), or

60.2.c

content, not within paragraph (a) or (b), of a kind which presents a material
risk of significant harm to an appreciable number of children in the United
Kingdom.

60.3

Content is not to be regarded as within subsection  (2)(c)  if the risk of
harm flows from—

60.3.a

the content’s potential financial impact,

60.3.b

the safety or quality of goods featured in the content, or

60.3.c

the way in which a service featured in the content may be performed (for
example, in the case of the performance of a service by a person not qualified
to perform it).

60.4

“ Non-designated content that is harmful to children ” means content within
subsection  (2)(c) .

60.5

Subsection  (6)  applies in relation to a regulated user-to-user service (but,
in the case of a combined service, does not apply in relation to the search
content of the service).

60.6

References to “primary priority content that is harmful to children”,
“priority content that is harmful to children”, “content that is harmful to
children” and “non-designated content that is harmful to children” are to be
read as—

60.6.a

limited to content within the definition in question that is regulated user-
generated content in relation to the service, and

60.6.b

including material which, if it were present on the service, would be content
within paragraph (a) (and this section and sections 61 and 62 are to be read
with such modifications as may be necessary for the purpose of this
paragraph).

##### “Primary priority content that is harmful to children”

61

61.1

“ Primary priority content that is harmful to children ” means content of any
of the following kinds.

61.2

Pornographic content, other than content within subsection  (6) .

61.3

Content which encourages, promotes or provides instructions for suicide.

61.4

Content which encourages, promotes or provides instructions for an act of
deliberate self-injury.

61.5

Content which encourages, promotes or provides instructions for an eating
disorder or behaviours associated with an eating disorder.

61.6

Content is within this subsection if it—

61.6.a

consists only of text, or

61.6.b

consists only of text accompanied by—

61.6.b.i

identifying content which consists only of text,

61.6.b.ii

other identifying content which is not itself pornographic content,

61.6.b.iii

a GIF which is not itself pornographic content,

61.6.b.iv

an emoji or other symbol, or

61.6.b.v

any combination of content mentioned in sub-paragraphs  (i)  to  (iv) .

61.7

In this section and section 62 “ injury ” includes poisoning.

##### “Priority content that is harmful to children”

62

62.1

“ Priority content that is harmful to children ” means content of any of the
following kinds.

62.2

Content which is abusive and which targets any of the following
characteristics—

62.2.a

race,

62.2.b

religion,

62.2.c

sex,

62.2.d

sexual orientation,

62.2.e

disability, or

62.2.f

gender reassignment.

62.3

Content which incites hatred against people—

62.3.a

of a particular race, religion, sex or sexual orientation,

62.3.b

who have a disability, or

62.3.c

who have the characteristic of gender reassignment.

62.4

Content which encourages, promotes or provides instructions for an act of
serious violence against a person.

62.5

Bullying content.

62.6

Content which—

62.6.a

depicts real or realistic serious violence against a person;

62.6.b

depicts the real or realistic serious injury of a person in graphic detail.

62.7

Content which—

62.7.a

depicts real or realistic serious violence against an animal;

62.7.b

depicts the real or realistic serious injury of an animal in graphic detail;

62.7.c

realistically depicts serious violence against a fictional creature or the
serious injury of a fictional creature in graphic detail.

62.8

Content which encourages, promotes or provides instructions for a challenge or
stunt highly likely to result in serious injury to the person who does it or
to someone else.

62.9

Content which encourages a person to ingest, inject, inhale or in any other
way self-administer—

62.9.a

a physically harmful substance;

62.9.b

a substance in such a quantity as to be physically harmful.

62.10

In subsections (2) and (3)—

62.10.a

“ disability ” means any physical or mental impairment;

62.10.b

“ race ” includes colour, nationality, and ethnic or national origins;

62.10.c

references to religion include references to a lack of religion.

62.11

For the purposes of subsection (3), a person has the characteristic of gender
reassignment if the person is proposing to undergo, is undergoing or has
undergone a process (or part of a process) for the purpose of reassigning the
person’s sex by changing physiological or other attributes of sex, and the
reference to gender reassignment in subsection (2) is to be construed
accordingly.

62.12

For the purposes of subsection  (5)  content may, in particular, be “bullying
content” if it is content targeted against a person which—

62.12.a

conveys a serious threat;

62.12.b

is humiliating or degrading;

62.12.c

forms part of a campaign of mistreatment.

62.13

In subsection  (6)  “person” is not limited to a real person.

62.14

In subsection  (7)  “animal” is not limited to a real animal.

##### Content harmful to children: OFCOM’s review and report

63

63.1

OFCOM must carry out reviews of—

63.1.a

the incidence on regulated user-to-user services of content that is harmful to
children,

63.1.b

the incidence on regulated search services and combined services of search
content that is harmful to children, and

63.1.c

the severity of harm that children in the United Kingdom suffer, or may
suffer, as a result of those kinds of content.

63.2

OFCOM must produce and publish a report on the outcome of each review.

63.3

The report must include advice as to whether, in OFCOM’s opinion, it is
appropriate to make changes to sections 61 and 62, specifying the changes that
OFCOM recommend.

63.4

The reports must be published not more than three years apart.

63.5

The first report must be published before the end of the period of three years
beginning with the day on which this Act is passed.

63.6

OFCOM must send a copy of each report to the Secretary of State.

### Other duties of providers of regulated user-to-user services and regulated search services

#### User identity verification

##### User identity verification

64

64.1

A provider of a Category 1 service must offer all adult users of the service
the option to verify their identity (if identity verification is not required
for access to the service).

64.2

The verification process may be of any kind (and in particular, it need not
require documentation to be provided).

64.3

A provider of a Category 1 service must include clear and accessible
provisions in the terms of service explaining how the verification process
works.

64.4

If a person is the provider of more than one Category 1 service, the duties
set out in this section apply in relation to each such service.

64.5

The duty set out in subsection  (1)  applies in relation to all adult users,
not just those who begin to use a service after that duty begins to apply.

64.6

The duties set out in this section extend only to—

64.6.a

the user-to-user part of a service, and

64.6.b

the design, operation and use of a service in the United Kingdom.

64.7

For the purposes of this section a person is an “adult user” of a service if
the person is an adult in the United Kingdom who—

64.7.a

is a user of the service, or

64.7.b

seeks to begin to use the service (for example by setting up an account).

64.8

For the meaning of “Category 1 service”, see section 95 (register of
categories of services).

##### OFCOM’s guidance about user identity verification

65

65.1

OFCOM must produce guidance for providers of Category 1 services to assist
them in complying with the duty set out in section 64 (1) .

65.2

In producing the guidance (including revised or replacement guidance), OFCOM
must have particular regard to the desirability of ensuring that providers of
Category 1 services offer users a form of identity verification likely to be
available to vulnerable adult users.

65.3

Before producing the guidance (including revised or replacement guidance),
OFCOM must consult—

65.3.a

the Information Commissioner,

65.3.b

persons whom OFCOM consider to have technological expertise relevant to the
duty set out in section 64 (1) ,

65.3.c

persons who appear to OFCOM to represent the interests of vulnerable adult
users of Category 1 services, and

65.3.d

such other persons as OFCOM consider appropriate.

65.4

OFCOM must publish the guidance (and any revised or replacement guidance).

#### Reporting child sexual exploitation and abuse content

##### Requirement to report CSEA content to the NCA

66

66.1

A UK provider of a regulated user-to-user service must operate the service
using systems and processes which secure (so far as possible) that the
provider reports all detected and unreported CSEA content present on the
service to the NCA.

66.2

A non-UK provider of a regulated user-to-user service must operate the service
using systems and processes which secure (so far as possible) that the
provider reports all detected and unreported UK-linked CSEA content present on
the service to the NCA (and does not report to the NCA CSEA content which is
not UK-linked).

66.3

A UK provider of a regulated search service must operate the service using
systems and processes which secure (so far as possible) that the provider
reports all detected and unreported CSEA content present on websites or
databases capable of being searched by the search engine to the NCA.

66.4

A non-UK provider of a regulated search service must operate the service using
systems and processes which secure (so far as possible) that the provider
reports all detected and unreported UK-linked CSEA content present on websites
or databases capable of being searched by the search engine to the NCA (and
does not report to the NCA CSEA content which is not UK-linked).

66.5

A UK provider of a combined service must comply with the requirement under
subsection  (3)  in relation to the search engine of the service.

66.6

A non-UK provider of a combined service must comply with the requirement under
subsection  (4)  in relation to the search engine of the service.

66.7

Providers’ reports under this section—

66.7.a

must meet the requirements set out in regulations under section 67, and

66.7.b

must be sent to the NCA in the manner, and within the time frames, set out in
those regulations.

66.8

If a person is the provider of more than one regulated user-to-user service or
regulated search service, requirements under this section apply in relation to
each such service.

66.9

Terms used in this section are defined in section 70.

66.10

This section applies only in relation to CSEA content detected on or after the
date on which this section comes into force.

##### Regulations about reports to the NCA

67

67.1

The Secretary of State must make regulations in connection with the reports
that are to be made to the NCA (including by non-UK providers) as required by
section 66.

67.2

The regulations may make provision about—

67.2.a

the information to be included in the reports,

67.2.b

the format of the reports,

67.2.c

the manner in which the reports must be sent to the NCA,

67.2.d

the time frames for sending the reports to the NCA (including provision about
cases of particular urgency),

67.2.e

the records that providers must keep in relation to the reports, or the
details that providers must retain as evidence that they have made the
reports, and

67.2.f

such other matters relating to the reports as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate.

67.3

The regulations may also—

67.3.a

require providers to retain, for a specified period, data of a specified
description associated with a report, and

67.3.b

impose restrictions or requirements in relation to the retention of such data
(including how the data is to be secured or stored or who may access the
data).

67.4

The power to require the retention of data associated with a report includes
power to require the retention of—

67.4.a

content generated, uploaded or shared by any user mentioned in the report (or
metadata relating to such content), and

67.4.b

user data relating to any such person (or metadata relating to such data).

“User data” here has the meaning given by section 231.

67.5

Before making regulations under this section, the Secretary of State must
consult—

67.5.a

the NCA,

67.5.b

OFCOM, and

67.5.c

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

##### NCA: information sharing

68

In section 16 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 (interpretation of Part 1), in
subsection (1), in the definition of “permitted purpose”, after paragraph (o)
insert—

68.oa

the exercise of any function of OFCOM (the Office of Communications) under the
Online Safety Act 2023;

.

##### Offence in relation to CSEA reporting

69

69.1

A person commits an offence if, in purported compliance with a requirement
under section 66—

69.1.a

the person provides information that is false in a material respect, and

69.1.b

at the time the person provides it, the person knows that it is false in a
material respect or is reckless as to whether it is false in a material
respect.

69.2

A person who commits an offence under this section is liable—

69.2.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

69.2.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

69.2.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

69.2.d

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years
or a fine (or both).

##### Interpretation of this Chapter

70

70.1

This section applies for the purposes of this Chapter.

70.2

A provider of a regulated user-to-user service or a regulated search service
is a “UK provider” of the service if the provider is—

70.2.a

an individual or individuals who are habitually resident in the United
Kingdom, or

70.2.b

an entity incorporated or formed under the law of any part of the United
Kingdom.

70.3

Otherwise, a provider of a regulated user-to-user service or a regulated
search service is a “non-UK provider” of the service.

70.4

CSEA content is “detected” by a provider when the provider becomes aware of
the content, whether by means of the provider’s systems or processes or as a
result of another person alerting the provider.

70.5

CSEA content is “ unreported ”, in relation to a provider, if the reporting of
that content is not covered by arrangements (mandatory or voluntary)—

70.5.a

by which the provider reports content relating to child sexual exploitation or
abuse to a foreign agency, or

70.5.b

by which an entity that is a group undertaking in relation to the provider
reports content relating to child sexual exploitation or abuse to—

70.5.b.i

the NCA, or

70.5.b.ii

a foreign agency.

70.6

CSEA content is “UK-linked” if a provider has evidence of a link between the
content and the United Kingdom, based on any of the following—

70.6.a

the place where the content was published, generated, uploaded or shared;

70.6.b

the nationality of a person suspected of committing the related offence;

70.6.c

the location of a person suspected of committing the related offence;

70.6.d

the location of a child who is a suspected victim of the related offence.

For the purposes of paragraphs  (b) ,  (c)  and  (d)  an offence is “related”
to CSEA content if the content amounts to that offence (construed in
accordance with section 59: see subsections  (3) , (11) and (12) of that
section).

70.7

In this Chapter—

“ CSEA content ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 (see section 59); “ foreign
agency ” means a person exercising functions in a country outside the United
Kingdom which correspond to the NCA’s functions insofar as they relate to
receiving and disseminating reports about CSEA content; “ group undertaking ”
has the meaning given by section 1161(5) of the Companies Act 2006; “ NCA ”
means the National Crime Agency.

70.8

Sections 1161(5) and 1162 of, and Schedule 7 to, the Companies Act 2006—

70.8.a

are to apply in relation to an entity which is not an undertaking (as defined
in section 1161(1) of that Act) as they apply in relation to an undertaking,
and

70.8.b

are to be read with any necessary modifications if applied to an entity formed
under the law of a country outside the United Kingdom.

#### Terms of service: transparency, accountability and freedom of expression

##### Duty not to act against users except in accordance with terms of service

71

71.1

A provider of a Category 1 service must operate the service using
proportionate systems and processes designed to ensure that the provider does
not—

71.1.a

take down regulated user-generated content from the service,

71.1.b

restrict users’ access to regulated user-generated content, or

71.1.c

suspend or ban users from using the service,

except in accordance with the terms of service.

71.2

Nothing in subsection (1) is to be read as preventing a provider from taking
down content from a service or restricting users’ access to it, or suspending
or banning a user, if such an action is taken—

71.2.a

to comply with the duties set out in—

71.2.a.i

section 10(2) or (3) (protecting individuals from illegal content), or

71.2.a.ii

section 12(2) or (3) (protecting children from content that is harmful to
children), or

71.2.b

to avoid criminal or civil liability on the part of the provider that might
reasonably be expected to arise if such an action were not taken.

71.3

In addition, nothing in subsection (1) is to be read as preventing a provider
from—

71.3.a

taking down content from a service or restricting users’ access to it on the
basis that a user has committed an offence in generating, uploading or sharing
it on the service, or

71.3.b

suspending or banning a user on the basis that—

71.3.b.i

the user has committed an offence in generating, uploading or sharing content
on the service, or

71.3.b.ii

the user is responsible for, or has facilitated, the presence or attempted
placement of a fraudulent advertisement on the service.

71.4

The duty set out in subsection (1) does not apply in relation to—

71.4.a

consumer content (see section 74);

71.4.b

terms of service which deal with the treatment of consumer content.

71.5

If a person is the provider of more than one Category 1 service, the duty set
out in subsection (1) applies in relation to each such service.

71.6

The duty set out in subsection (1) extends only to the design, operation and
use of a service in the United Kingdom, and references in this section to
users are to United Kingdom users of a service.

71.7

In this section—

“ criminal or civil liability ” includes such a liability under the law of a
country outside the United Kingdom; “ fraudulent advertisement ” has the
meaning given by section 38; “ offence ” includes an offence under the law of
a country outside the United Kingdom.

71.8

See also section 18 (duties to protect news publisher content).

##### Further duties about terms of service

72

######## All services

72.1

A provider of a regulated user-to-user service must include clear and
accessible provisions in the terms of service informing users about their
right to bring a claim for breach of contract if—

72.1.a

regulated user-generated content which they generate, upload or share is taken
down, or access to it is restricted, in breach of the terms of service, or

72.1.b

they are suspended or banned from using the service in breach of the terms of
service.

######## Category 1 services

72.2

The duties set out in subsections  (3)  to  (7)  apply in relation to a
Category 1 service, and references in subsections  (3)  to  (9)  to “ provider
” and “ service ” are to be read accordingly.

72.3

A provider must operate a service using proportionate systems and processes
designed to ensure that—

72.3.a

if the terms of service indicate (in whatever words) that the presence of a
particular kind of regulated user-generated content is prohibited on the
service, the provider takes down such content;

72.3.b

if the terms of service state that the provider will restrict users’ access to
a particular kind of regulated user-generated content in a specified way, the
provider does restrict users’ access to such content in that way;

72.3.c

if the terms of service state cases in which the provider will suspend or ban
a user from using the service, the provider does suspend or ban the user in
those cases.

72.4

A provider must ensure that—

72.4.a

terms of service which make provision about the provider taking down regulated
user-generated content from the service or restricting users’ access to such
content, or suspending or banning a user from using the service, are—

72.4.a.i

clear and accessible, and

72.4.a.ii

written in sufficient detail to enable users to be reasonably certain whether
the provider would be justified in taking the specified action in a particular
case, and

72.4.b

those terms of service are applied consistently.

72.5

A provider must operate a service using systems and processes that allow users
and affected persons to easily report—

72.5.a

content which they consider to be relevant content (see section 74);

72.5.b

a user who they consider should be suspended or banned from using the service
in accordance with the terms of service.

72.6

A provider must operate a complaints procedure in relation to a service that—

72.6.a

allows for complaints of a kind mentioned in subsection  (8)  to be made,

72.6.b

provides for appropriate action to be taken by the provider of the service in
response to complaints of those kinds, and

72.6.c

is easy to access, easy to use (including by children) and transparent.

72.7

A provider must include in the terms of service provisions which are easily
accessible (including to children) specifying the policies and processes that
govern the handling and resolution of complaints of a kind mentioned in
subsection  (8) .

72.8

The kinds of complaints referred to in subsections  (6)  and  (7)  are—

72.8.a

complaints by users and affected persons about content present on a service
which they consider to be relevant content;

72.8.b

complaints by users and affected persons if they consider that the provider is
not complying with a duty set out in any of subsections  (1)  or  (3)  to  (5)
;

72.8.c

complaints by a user who has generated, uploaded or shared content on a
service if that content is taken down, or access to it is restricted, on the
basis that it is relevant content;

72.8.d

complaints by users who have been suspended or banned from using a service.

72.9

The duties set out in subsections  (3)  and  (4)  do not apply in relation to
terms of service which—

72.9.a

make provision of the kind mentioned in section 10(5) (protecting individuals
from illegal content) or 12 (9)  (protecting children from content that is
harmful to children), or

72.9.b

deal with the treatment of consumer content.

######## Further provision

72.10

If a person is the provider of more than one regulated user-to-user service or
Category 1 service, the duties set out in this section apply in relation to
each such service.

72.11

The duties set out in this section extend only to the design, operation and
use of a service in the United Kingdom, and references to users are to United
Kingdom users of a service.

72.12

See also section 18 (duties to protect news publisher content).

##### OFCOM’s guidance about duties set out in sections 71 and 72

73

73.1

OFCOM must produce guidance for providers of Category 1 services to assist
them in complying with their duties set out in sections 71 and 72 (3)  to  (7)
.

73.2

OFCOM must publish the guidance (and any revised or replacement guidance).

##### Interpretation of this Chapter

74

74.1

This section applies for the purposes of this Chapter.

74.2

“ Regulated user-generated content ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 (see
section 55), and references to such content are to content that is regulated
user-generated content in relation to the service in question.

74.3

“ Consumer content ” means—

74.3.a

regulated user-generated content that constitutes, or is directly connected
with content that constitutes, an offer to sell goods or to supply services,

74.3.b

regulated user-generated content that amounts to an offence under the Consumer
Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 ( S.I. 2008/1277 ) (construed
in accordance with section 59: see subsections (3), (11) and (12) of that
section), or

74.3.c

any other regulated user-generated content in relation to which an enforcement
authority has functions under those Regulations (see regulation 19 of those
Regulations).

74.4

References to restricting users’ access to content, and related references,
are to be construed in accordance with sections 58 and 236 (6) .

74.5

Content of a particular kind is “relevant content” if—

74.5.a

a term of service, other than a term of service mentioned in section 72 (9) ,
indicates (in whatever words) that the presence of content of that kind is
prohibited on the service or that users’ access to content of that kind is
restricted, and

74.5.b

it is regulated user-generated content.

References to relevant content are to content that is relevant content in
relation to the service in question.

74.6

“ Affected person ” means a person, other than a user of the service in
question, who is in the United Kingdom and who is—

74.6.a

the subject of the content,

74.6.b

a member of a class or group of people with a certain characteristic targeted
by the content,

74.6.c

a parent of, or other adult with responsibility for, a child who is a user of
the service or is the subject of the content, or

74.6.d

an adult providing assistance in using the service to another adult who
requires such assistance, where that other adult is a user of the service or
is the subject of the content.

74.7

In determining what is proportionate for the purposes of sections 71 and 72,
the size and capacity of the provider of a service is, in particular,
relevant.

74.8

For the meaning of “Category 1 service”, see section 95 (register of
categories of services).

#### Deceased Child Users

##### Disclosure of information about use of service by deceased child users

75

75.1

A provider of a relevant service must make it clear in the terms of service
what their policy is about dealing with requests from parents of a deceased
child for information about the child’s use of the service.

75.2

A provider of a relevant service must have a dedicated helpline or section of
the service, or some similar means, by which parents can easily find out what
they need to do to obtain information and updates in those circumstances, and
the terms of service must provide details.

75.3

A provider of a relevant service must include clear and accessible provisions
in the terms of service—

75.3.a

specifying the procedure for parents of a deceased child to request
information about the child’s use of the service,

75.3.b

specifying what evidence (if any) the provider will require about the parent’s
identity or relationship to the child, and

75.3.c

giving sufficient detail to enable child users and their parents to be
reasonably certain about what kinds of information would be disclosed and how
information would be disclosed.

75.4

A provider of a relevant service must respond in a timely manner to requests
from parents of a deceased child for information about the child’s use of the
service or for updates about the progress of such information requests.

75.5

A provider of a relevant service must operate a complaints procedure in
relation to the service that—

75.5.a

allows for complaints to be made by parents of a deceased child who consider
that the provider is not complying with a duty set out in any of subsections
(1) to (4),

75.5.b

provides for appropriate action to be taken by the provider of the service in
response to such complaints, and

75.5.c

is easy to access, easy to use and transparent.

75.6

A provider of a relevant service must include in the terms of service
provisions which are easily accessible specifying the policies and processes
that govern the handling and resolution of such complaints.

75.7

If a person is the provider of more than one relevant service, the duties set
out in this section apply in relation to each such service.

75.8

The duties set out in this section extend only to the design, operation and
use of a service in the United Kingdom, and references in this section to
children are to children in the United Kingdom.

75.9

A “ relevant service ” means—

75.9.a

a Category 1 service (see section 95(10)(a));

75.9.b

a Category 2A service (see section 95(10)(b));

75.9.c

a Category 2B service (see section 95(10)(c)).

75.10

In this section “ parent ”, in relation to a child, includes any person who is
not the child’s parent but who—

75.10.a

has parental responsibility for the child within the meaning of section 3 of
the Children Act 1989 or Article 6 of the Children (Northern Ireland) Order
1995 ( S.I. 1995/755 (N.I. 2) ), or

75.10.b

has parental responsibilities in relation to the child within the meaning of
section 1(3) of the Children (Scotland) Act 1995.

75.11

In the application of this section to a Category 2A service, references to the
terms of service include references to a publicly available statement.

##### OFCOM’s guidance about duties set out in section 75

76

76.1

OFCOM must produce guidance for providers of relevant services to assist them
in complying with their duties set out in section 75.

76.2

OFCOM must publish the guidance (and any revised or replacement guidance).

76.3

In this section “ relevant service ” has the meaning given by section 75.

#### Transparency reporting

##### Transparency reports about certain Part 3 services

77

77.1

Once a year, OFCOM must give every provider of a relevant service a notice
which requires the provider to produce a report about the service (a
“transparency report”).

77.2

If a person is the provider of more than one relevant service, a notice must
be given to the provider in respect of each such service.

77.3

In response to a notice relating to a relevant service, the provider of the
service must produce a transparency report which must—

77.3.a

contain information of a kind specified or described in the notice,

77.3.b

be in the format specified in the notice,

77.3.c

be submitted to OFCOM by the date specified in the notice, and

77.3.d

be published in the manner and by the date specified in the notice.

77.4

A provider must ensure that the information provided in a transparency report
is—

77.4.a

complete, and

77.4.b

accurate in all material respects.

77.5

A “ relevant service ” means—

77.5.a

a Category 1 service (see section 95 (10)(a) );

77.5.b

a Category 2A service (see section 95 (10)(b) );

77.5.c

a Category 2B service (see section 95 (10)(c) ).

77.6

In a notice which relates to a Category 1 service or a Category 2B service,
OFCOM may only specify or describe user-to-user information.

But in the case of a service described in subsection  (9) , that subsection
applies instead.

77.7

In a notice which relates to a regulated search service that is a Category 2A
service, OFCOM may only specify or describe search engine information.

77.8

In a notice which relates to a combined service that is a Category 2A service,
and is not also a Category 1 service or a Category 2B service, OFCOM may only
specify or describe search engine information.

77.9

In a notice which relates to a combined service that is a Category 2A service,
as well as being a Category 1 service or a Category 2B service, OFCOM may
specify or describe user-to-user information or search engine information, or
both those kinds of information.

77.10

In subsections  (6)  to  (9) —

77.10.a

“ user-to-user information ” means information which—

77.10.a.i

is about the matters listed in Part 1 of Schedule 8, and

77.10.a.ii

relates to the user-to-user part of a service;

77.10.b

“ search engine information ” means information which—

77.10.b.i

is about the matters listed in Part 2 of Schedule 8, and

77.10.b.ii

relates to the search engine of a service.

77.11

Part 3 of Schedule 8 makes further provision about transparency reports.

77.12

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend subsection  (1)  so as to
change the frequency of the transparency reporting process.

77.13

The Secretary of State must consult OFCOM before making regulations under
subsection  (12) .

77.14

In this section “ notice ” means a notice under subsection  (1) .

##### OFCOM’s guidance about transparency reports

78

78.1

OFCOM must produce guidance about—

78.1.a

how OFCOM will determine which information they will require transparency
reports under section 77 to contain, including—

78.1.a.i

the principles that they will apply in relation to each of the factors
mentioned in paragraph  37  of Schedule 8, and

78.1.a.ii

the steps that they will take to engage with providers of relevant services
before requiring information in a notice under section 77 (1) ;

78.1.b

how information from transparency reports produced by providers of relevant
services under section 77 will be used to produce OFCOM’s transparency reports
(see section 159); and

78.1.c

any other matter that OFCOM consider to be relevant to the production and
publication of transparency reports under section 77 or 159.

78.2

Before producing the guidance (including revised or replacement guidance),
OFCOM must consult such of the following as they consider appropriate—

78.2.a

providers of regulated user-to-user services, and of regulated search
services,

78.2.b

persons who appear to OFCOM to represent such providers,

78.2.c

persons who appear to OFCOM to represent the interests of children (generally
or with particular reference to online safety matters),

78.2.d

persons whom OFCOM consider to have expertise in equality issues and human
rights, in particular—

78.2.d.i

the right to freedom of expression set out in Article 10 of the Convention,
and

78.2.d.ii

the right to respect for a person’s private and family life, home and
correspondence set out in Article 8 of the Convention,

78.2.e

the Information Commissioner,

78.2.f

persons who appear to OFCOM to represent the interests of those with protected
characteristics (within the meaning of Part 2 of the Equality Act 2010), and

78.2.g

persons whom OFCOM consider to have expertise in the enforcement of the
criminal law and the protection of national security that is relevant to
online safety matters,

and OFCOM must also consult such other persons as OFCOM consider appropriate.

78.3

OFCOM must publish the guidance (and any revised or replacement guidance).

78.4

In exercising their functions under section 77 or 159, OFCOM must have regard
to the guidance for the time being published under this section.

78.5

In this section, “ relevant service ” has the same meaning as in section 77
(see subsection  (5)  of that section).

### Duties of providers of regulated services: certain pornographic content

#### “Provider pornographic content” and “regulated provider pornographic content”

79

79.1

This section applies for the purposes of this Part.

79.2

“ Provider pornographic content ”, in relation to an internet service, means
pornographic content that is published or displayed on the service by the
provider of the service or by a person acting on behalf of the provider,
including pornographic content published or displayed on the service by means
of—

79.2.a

software or an automated tool or algorithm applied by the provider or by a
person acting on behalf of the provider, or

79.2.b

an automated tool or algorithm made available on the service by the provider
or by a person acting on behalf of the provider.

79.3

“ Regulated provider pornographic content ”, in relation to an internet
service, means provider pornographic content other than content within
subsection  (4)  or  (5) .

79.4

Content is within this subsection if it—

79.4.a

consists only of text, or

79.4.b

consists only of text accompanied by—

79.4.b.i

a GIF which is not itself pornographic content,

79.4.b.ii

an emoji or other symbol, or

79.4.b.iii

a combination of content mentioned in sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii).

79.5

Content is within this subsection if it consists of a paid-for advertisement
(see section 236).

79.6

References to pornographic content that is “published or displayed” on a
service—

79.6.a

include, in particular—

79.6.a.i

references to pornographic content that is only visible or audible to users as
a result of interacting with content that is blurred, distorted or obscured
(for example, by clicking on such content), but only where the pornographic
content is present on the service,

79.6.a.ii

references to pornographic content that is embedded on the service, and

79.6.a.iii

references to pornographic content that is generated on the service by means
of an automated tool or algorithm in response to a prompt by a user and is
only visible or audible to that user (no matter for how short a time);

79.6.b

do not include references to pornographic content that appears in search
results of a search service or a combined service.

79.7

Pornographic content that is user-generated content in relation to an internet
service is not to be regarded as provider pornographic content in relation to
that service.

79.8

In this section—

“ search results ” has the meaning given by section 57 (3) ; “ user-generated
content ” has the meaning given by section 55 (see subsections  (3)  and  (4)
of that section).

#### Scope of duties about regulated provider pornographic content

80

80.1

A provider of an internet service within subsection  (2)  must comply with the
duties set out in section 81 in relation to the service.

80.2

An internet service is within this subsection if—

80.2.a

regulated provider pornographic content is published or displayed on the
service,

80.2.b

the service is not exempt, and

80.2.c

the service has links with the United Kingdom.

80.3

A service is “ exempt ” for the purposes of this Part if it is —

80.3.a

a user-to-user service or a search service of a description that is exempt as
provided for by Schedule 1, or

80.3.b

an internet service of a kind described in Schedule 9.

80.4

A service “ has links with the United Kingdom ” for the purposes of this Part
if either of the following conditions is met in relation to the service—

80.4.a

the service has a significant number of United Kingdom users, or

80.4.b

United Kingdom users form one of the target markets for the service (or the
only target market).

80.5

This Part does not apply in relation to a part of a regulated service if—

80.5.a

in the case of a Part 3 service, the conditions in paragraph  7(2)  of
Schedule 1 (internal business service conditions) are met in relation to that
part;

80.5.b

in the case of an internet service other than a Part 3 service, the conditions
in paragraph 1(2) of Schedule 9 (internal business service conditions) are met
in relation to that part.

80.6

This Part does not apply in relation to a part of a regulated service if that
part is an on-demand programme service  or a non-UK on-demand programme
service that is a Tier 1 service    ....

80.6A

In subsection (6), “ on-demand programme service ”, “ non-UK on-demand
programme service ” and “ Tier 1 service ” have the same meaning as in the
Communications Act (see sections 368A,  368AA  and  368HA  of that Act).

80.7

If a person is the provider of more than one internet service within
subsection  (2) , the duties set out in section 81 apply in relation to each
such service.

80.8

The duties set out in section 81 extend only to the design, operation and use
of an internet service in the United Kingdom.

#### Duties about regulated provider pornographic content

81

81.1

This section sets out the duties which apply in relation to internet services
within section 80 (2) .

81.2

A duty to ensure, by the use of age verification or age estimation (or both),
that children are not normally able to encounter content that is regulated
provider pornographic content in relation to the service.

81.3

The age verification or age estimation must be of such a kind, and used in
such a way, that it is highly effective at correctly determining whether or
not a particular user is a child.

81.4

In relation to the duty set out in subsection  (2) , a duty to make and keep a
written record, in an easily understandable form, of—

81.4.a

the kinds of age verification or age estimation used, and how they are used,
and

81.4.b

the way in which the provider, when deciding on the kinds of age verification
or age estimation and how they should be used, has had regard to the
importance of protecting United Kingdom users from a breach of any statutory
provision or rule of law concerning privacy that is relevant to the use or
operation of a regulated service (including, but not limited to, any such
provision or rule concerning the processing of personal data).

81.5

A duty to summarise the written record in a publicly available statement, so
far as the record concerns compliance with the duty set out in subsection (2),
including details about which kinds of age verification or age estimation a
provider is using and how they are used.

#### OFCOM’s guidance about duties set out in section 81

82

82.1

OFCOM must produce guidance for providers of internet services within section
80 (2)  to assist them in complying with their duties set out in section 81.

82.2

The guidance must include—

82.2.a

examples of kinds and uses of age verification and age estimation that are, or
are not, highly effective at correctly determining whether or not a particular
user is a child,

82.2.b

examples of ways in which a provider may have regard to the importance of
protecting users as mentioned in section 81 (4)(b) ,

82.2.c

principles that OFCOM propose to apply when determining whether a provider has
complied with each of the duties set out in section 81, and

82.2.d

examples of circumstances in which OFCOM are likely to consider that a
provider has not complied with each of those duties.

82.3

The guidance may elaborate on the following principles governing the use of
age verification or age estimation for the purpose of compliance with the duty
set out in section 81 (2) —

82.3.a

the principle that age verification or age estimation should be easy to use;

82.3.b

the principle that age verification or age estimation should work effectively
for all users regardless of their characteristics or whether they are members
of a certain group;

82.3.c

the principle of interoperability between different kinds of age verification
or age estimation.

82.4

The guidance may refer to industry or technical standards for age verification
or age estimation (where they exist).

82.5

Before producing the guidance (including revised or replacement guidance),
OFCOM must consult—

82.5.a

the Secretary of State,

82.5.b

persons who appear to OFCOM to represent providers of internet services within
section 80 (2) ,

82.5.c

persons who appear to OFCOM to represent adult users of internet services
within section 80 (2) ,

82.5.d

persons who appear to OFCOM to represent the interests of children (generally
or with particular reference to online safety matters),

82.5.e

the Information Commissioner,

82.5.f

persons whom OFCOM consider to have expertise in innovation, or emerging
technology, that is relevant to online safety matters, and

82.5.g

such other persons as OFCOM consider appropriate.

82.6

But if OFCOM propose to revise the guidance, and consider that the minor
nature of the proposal means that consultation is unnecessary—

82.6.a

OFCOM must notify the Secretary of State of the proposed changes, and

82.6.b

if the Secretary of State agrees that it is appropriate, the consultation
requirements set out in subsection  (5)  do not apply in relation to the
proposed changes.

82.7

OFCOM must keep the guidance under review.

82.8

OFCOM must publish the guidance (and any revised or replacement guidance).

### Duties of providers of regulated services: fees

#### Duty to notify OFCOM

83

83.1

A provider of a regulated service must notify OFCOM in relation to a charging
year which is—

83.1.a

the first fee-paying year in relation to that provider, or

83.1.b

any charging year after the first fee-paying year where—

83.1.b.i

the previous charging year was not a fee-paying year in relation to the
provider, and the charging year in question is a fee-paying year in relation
to the provider, or

83.1.b.ii

the previous charging year was a fee-paying year in relation to the provider,
and the charging year in question is not a fee-paying year in relation to the
provider.

83.2

A “ fee-paying year ”, in relation to a provider, means a charging year where
both of the following conditions apply—

83.2.a

the provider’s qualifying worldwide revenue for the qualifying period that
relates to that charging year is equal to or greater than the threshold figure
that has effect for that charging year (see section 86), and

83.2.b

the provider is not exempt (see subsection  (6) ).

83.3

A notification under subsection  (1)  in relation to a charging year must
include details of all regulated services provided by the provider, and where
it is a notification under subsection  (1)(a)  or  (b)(i) , it must also
include—

83.3.a

details of the provider’s qualifying worldwide revenue for the qualifying
period that relates to that charging year, and

83.3.b

supporting evidence, documents or other information as required by regulations
made by OFCOM under section 85.

83.4

Section 85 confers power on OFCOM to make regulations about the determination
of a provider’s qualifying worldwide revenue, and the meaning of “qualifying
period”, for the purposes of this Part.

83.5

A notification under subsection  (1)  must be provided to OFCOM—

83.5.a

in relation to the initial charging year, within four months of the date on
which the first regulations under section 86 come into force (first threshold
figure);

83.5.b

in relation to subsequent charging years, at least six months before the
beginning of the charging year to which the notification relates.

83.6

OFCOM may provide that particular descriptions of providers of regulated
services are exempt for the purposes of this section and section 84 where—

83.6.a

OFCOM consider that an exemption for such providers is appropriate, and

83.6.b

the Secretary of State approves the exemption.

83.7

OFCOM may revoke such an exemption where they consider that it is no longer
appropriate and the Secretary of State approves the revocation.

83.8

Exemptions, or revocations of exemptions, which are approved by the Secretary
of State are to take effect from the beginning of a particular charging year.

83.9

Details of an exemption or revocation must be published by OFCOM at least six
months before the beginning of the first charging year for which the exemption
or revocation is to have effect.

83.10

But subsection  (9)  does not apply in relation to any exemptions which are to
have effect for the initial charging year.

83.11

For the purposes of this section and section 84, the “provider” of a regulated
service, in relation to a charging year, includes a person who is the provider
of the service for part of that year.

#### Duty to pay fees

84

84.1

OFCOM may require a provider of a regulated service to pay a fee in respect of
a charging year which is a fee-paying year.

84.2

Where OFCOM require a provider of a regulated service to pay a fee in respect
of a charging year, the fee is to be equal to the amount produced by a
computation—

84.2.a

made by reference to—

84.2.a.i

the provider’s qualifying worldwide revenue for the qualifying period relating
to that charging year, and

84.2.a.ii

any other factors that OFCOM consider appropriate, and

84.2.b

made in the manner that OFCOM consider appropriate.

84.3

For the purposes of this section and section 83—

84.3.a

the amount of a provider’s qualifying worldwide revenue for a qualifying
period, or

84.3.b

the amount of a fee to be paid to OFCOM, or of an instalment of such a fee,

is, in the event of a disagreement between the provider and OFCOM, the amount
determined by OFCOM.

84.4

When determining fees payable under this section, OFCOM must do so in
accordance with a statement of principles as mentioned in section 88 (1) .

84.5

Where a person is the provider of a regulated service for part of a charging
year only, OFCOM may refund all or part of a fee paid to OFCOM under this
section by that provider in respect of that year.

84.6

In this section, “ fee-paying year ” has the same meaning as in section 83.

#### Regulations by OFCOM about qualifying worldwide revenue etc

85

85.1

For the purposes of this Part, OFCOM may by regulations make provision—

85.1.a

about how the qualifying worldwide revenue of a provider of a regulated
service is to be determined, and

85.1.b

defining the “ qualifying period ” in relation to a charging year.

85.2

OFCOM may by regulations also make provision specifying or describing
evidence, documents or other information that providers must supply to OFCOM
for the purposes of section 83 (see subsection (3)(b) of that section),
including provision about the way in which providers must supply the evidence,
documents or information.

85.3

Regulations under subsection (1)(a) may provide that the qualifying worldwide
revenue of a provider of a regulated service (P) who is a member of a group
during any part of a qualifying period is to include the qualifying worldwide
revenue of any entity that—

85.3.a

is a group undertaking in relation to P for all or part of that period, and

85.3.b

receives or is due to receive, during that period, any amount referable (to
any degree) to a regulated service provided by P.

85.4

Regulations under subsection (1)(a) may, in particular—

85.4.a

make provision about circumstances in which amounts do, or do not, count as
being referable (to any degree) to a regulated service for the purposes of the
determination of the qualifying worldwide revenue of the provider of the
service or of an entity that is a group undertaking in relation to the
provider;

85.4.b

provide for cases or circumstances in which amounts that—

85.4.b.i

are of a kind specified or described in the regulations, and

85.4.b.ii

are not referable to a regulated service,

are to be brought into account in determining the qualifying worldwide revenue
of the provider of the service or of an entity that is a group undertaking in
relation to the provider.

85.5

Regulations which make provision of a kind mentioned in subsection (3) may
include provision that, in the case of an entity that is a group undertaking
in relation to a provider for part (not all) of a qualifying period, only
amounts relating to the part of the qualifying period for which the entity was
a group undertaking may be brought into account in determining the entity’s
qualifying worldwide revenue.

85.6

Regulations under subsection (1)(a) may make provision corresponding to
paragraph 5(8) of Schedule 13.

85.7

Before making regulations under subsection  (1)  OFCOM must consult—

85.7.a

the Secretary of State,

85.7.b

the Treasury, and

85.7.c

such other persons as OFCOM consider appropriate.

85.8

Before making regulations under subsection  (2)  OFCOM must consult the
Secretary of State.

85.9

Regulations under this section may make provision subject to such exemptions
and exceptions as OFCOM consider appropriate.

85.10

In this section—

      “ group ” means a parent undertaking and its subsidiary undertakings,
reading those terms in accordance with section 1162 of the Companies Act 2006;
“ group undertaking ” has the meaning given by section 1161(5) of that Act.

#### Threshold figure

86

86.1

OFCOM must carry out a consultation to inform the setting of the threshold
figure for the purposes of sections 83 and 84, consulting such persons as they
consider appropriate.

86.2

After the completion of the consultation, and having taken advice from OFCOM,
the Secretary of State must make regulations specifying the threshold figure
for those purposes.

86.3

The Secretary of State must keep the threshold figure under review.

86.4

If the Secretary of State considers that it may be appropriate to revise the
threshold figure, the Secretary of State may request OFCOM to carry out a
further consultation, and subsections  (1)  and  (2)  apply again.

86.5

Regulations must provide that a threshold figure is to take effect from the
beginning of a particular charging year.

86.6

Regulations specifying a threshold figure must be in force at least nine
months before the beginning of the first charging year for which that figure
is to have effect.

86.7

But subsection  (6)  does not apply in relation to the first regulations made
under this section.

#### Secretary of State’s guidance about fees

87

87.1

The Secretary of State must issue guidance to OFCOM about the principles to be
included in a statement of principles that OFCOM propose to apply in
determining fees payable under section 84 (see section 88).

87.2

The Secretary of State must consult OFCOM before issuing, revising or
replacing the guidance.

87.3

The guidance may not be revised or replaced more frequently than once every
three years unless—

87.3.a

the guidance needs to be corrected because of an amendment, repeal or
modification of any provision of this Part, or

87.3.b

the revision or replacement is by agreement between the Secretary of State and
OFCOM.

87.4

The Secretary of State must lay the guidance (including revised or replacement
guidance) before Parliament.

87.5

The Secretary of State must publish the guidance (and any revised or
replacement guidance).

87.6

In exercising any functions under this Part, OFCOM must have regard to the
guidance for the time being published under this section.

#### OFCOM’s fees statements

88

88.1

OFCOM may not require a provider of a regulated service to pay a fee under
section 84 unless there is in force a statement of the principles that OFCOM
propose to apply in determining fees payable under that section.

88.2

Those principles must be such as appear to OFCOM to be likely to secure, on
the basis of such estimates of the likely costs as it is practicable for them
to make—

88.2.a

that on a year by year basis, the aggregate amount of the fees payable to
OFCOM under section 84 is sufficient to meet, but does not exceed, the annual
cost to OFCOM of the exercise of their online safety functions;

88.2.b

that the fees required under section 84 are justifiable and proportionate
having regard to the functions in respect of which they are imposed;

88.2.c

that the relationship between meeting the cost of the exercise of those
functions and the amounts of the fees is transparent.

88.3

A statement of principles mentioned in subsection  (1)  must (among other
things)—

88.3.a

include details relating to the computation model used to calculate fees
payable under section 84, including details of factors mentioned in subsection
(2)(a)(ii)  of that section (if any),

88.3.b

include details about the meaning of “qualifying worldwide revenue” and “
qualifying period ” for the purposes of this Part, and

88.3.c

specify the threshold figure contained in regulations under section 86.

88.4

Before making or revising such a statement of principles, OFCOM must consult
such persons as they consider appropriate.

88.5

Such a statement of principles may make different provision in relation to
different kinds of regulated services.

88.6

OFCOM must publish such a statement of principles (and any revised or
replacement statement).

88.7

As soon as reasonably practicable after the end of each charging year, OFCOM
must publish a statement setting out, in respect of that year—

88.7.a

the aggregate amount of the fees payable under section 84 for that year that
has been received by OFCOM,

88.7.b

the aggregate amount of the fees payable under that section for that year that
remains outstanding and is likely to be paid or recovered, and

88.7.c

the cost to OFCOM of the exercise of their online safety functions.

88.8

Any deficit or surplus shown (after applying this subsection for all previous
years) by a statement under subsection  (7)  must be carried forward and taken
into account in determining what is required to satisfy the requirement
imposed by virtue of subsection  (2)(a)  in relation to the following year.

88.9

For the purposes of this section OFCOM’s costs of the exercise of their online
safety functions during a charging year include the costs of preparations for
the exercise of their online safety functions incurred during that year.

#### Recovery of OFCOM’s initial costs

89

Schedule 10 makes provision about fees chargeable to providers of regulated
services in connection with OFCOM’s recovery of costs incurred before the
first day of the initial charging year.

#### Meaning of “charging year” and “initial charging year”

90

In this Part—

      “ charging year ” means any period of 12 months beginning with 1 April,
except such a period that falls before the initial charging year;           “
initial charging year ” means the period of 12 months beginning with 1 April
specified by OFCOM in a notice published for the purposes of this Part.

### OFCOM's powers and duties in relation to regulated services

#### General duties

##### General duties of OFCOM under section 3 of the Communications Act

91

91.1

Section 3 of the Communications Act (general duties of OFCOM) is amended in
accordance with subsections  (2)  to  (8) .

91.2

In subsection (2), after paragraph (f) insert—

91.2.g

the adequate protection of citizens from harm presented by content on
regulated services, through the appropriate use by providers of such services
of systems and processes designed to reduce the risk of such harm.

91.3

In subsection (4)(c), at the beginning insert  “(subject to subsection (5A))”
.

91.4

After subsection (4) insert—

91.4.4A

In performing their duties under subsection (1) in relation to matters to
which subsection (2)(g) is relevant, OFCOM must have regard to such of the
following as appear to them to be relevant in the circumstances—

91.4.4A.a

the risk of harm to citizens presented by regulated services;

91.4.4A.b

the need for a higher level of protection for children than for adults;

91.4.4A.c

the need for it to be clear to providers of regulated services how they may
comply with their duties set out in Chapter 2, 3, 4 or 5 of Part 3, Chapter 1,
3 or 4 of Part 4, or Part 5 of the Online Safety Act 2023;

91.4.4A.d

the need to exercise their functions so as to secure that providers of
regulated services may comply with such duties by taking measures, or using
measures, systems or processes, which are (where relevant) proportionate to—

91.4.4A.d.i

the size or capacity of the provider in question, and

91.4.4A.d.ii

the level of risk of harm presented by the service in question, and the
severity of the potential harm;

91.4.4A.e

the desirability of promoting the use by providers of regulated services of
technologies which are designed to reduce the risk of harm to citizens
presented by content on regulated services;

91.4.4A.f

the extent to which providers of regulated services demonstrate, in a way that
is transparent and accountable, that they are complying with their duties set
out in Chapter 2, 3, 4 or 5 of Part 3, Chapter 1, 3 or 4 of Part 4, or Part 5
of the Online Safety Act 2023.

91.5

After subsection (5) insert—

91.5.5A

Subsection (4)(c) does not apply in relation to the carrying out of any of
OFCOM’s online safety functions.

91.6

After subsection (6) insert—

91.6.6ZA

Where it appears to OFCOM, in relation to the carrying out of any of their
online safety functions, that any of their general duties conflict with their
duty under section 24, priority must be given to their duty under that
section.

91.7

In subsection (14), at the appropriate places insert—

      “ content on regulated services ” means—         regulated user-
generated content present on regulated services,           search content of
regulated services,           fraudulent advertisements present on regulated
services, and           regulated provider pornographic content present on
regulated services;

;

      “ online safety functions ” has the meaning given by section 235 of the
Online Safety Act 2023, except that it does not include OFCOM’s general
duties;

.

91.8

After subsection (14) insert—

91.8.15

In this section the following terms have the same meaning as in the Online
Safety Act 2023—

      “ content ” (see section 236 of that Act);           “ fraudulent
advertisement ” (see sections 38 and 39 of that Act);           “ harm ” (see
section 234 of that Act);           “ provider ”, in relation to a regulated
service (see section 226 of that Act);           “ regulated user-generated
content ” (see section 55 of that Act);           “ regulated provider
pornographic content ” (see section 79 of that Act);           “ regulated
service ” (see section 4 of that Act);           “ search content ” (see
section 57 of that Act).

91.9

In section 6 of the Communications Act (duties to review regulatory burdens)—

91.9.a

in subsection (2), after “this section” insert  “(except their online safety
functions)” , and

91.9.b

after subsection (10) insert—

91.9.b.11

In this section “ online safety functions ” has the same meaning as in section
3.

##### Duties in relation to strategic priorities

92

92.1

This section applies where a statement has been designated under section 172
(1)  (Secretary of State’s statement of strategic priorities).

92.2

OFCOM must have regard to the statement when carrying out their online safety
functions.

92.3

Within the period of 40 days beginning with the day on which the statement is
designated, or such longer period as the Secretary of State may allow, OFCOM
must—

92.3.a

explain in writing what they propose to do in consequence of the statement,
and

92.3.b

publish a copy of that explanation.

92.4

OFCOM must, as soon as reasonably practicable after the end of—

92.4.a

the period of 12 months beginning with the day on which the first statement is
designated under section 172 (1) , and

92.4.b

every subsequent period of 12 months,

publish a review of what they have done during the period in question in
consequence of the statement.

##### Duty to carry out impact assessments

93

93.1

Section 7 of the Communications Act (duty to carry out impact assessments) is
amended as follows.

93.2

In subsection (2), at the beginning insert  “Subject to subsection (2A),” .

93.3

After subsection (2) insert—

93.3.2A

A proposal to do any of the following is important for the purposes of this
section—

93.3.2A.a

to prepare a code of practice under section 41 of the Online Safety Act 2023;

93.3.2A.b

to prepare amendments of such a code of practice; or

93.3.2A.c

to prepare a code of practice as a replacement for such a code of practice.

93.4

After subsection (4) insert—

93.4.4A

An assessment under subsection (3)(a) that relates to a proposal mentioned in
subsection (2A) must include an assessment of the likely impact of
implementing the proposal on small businesses and micro businesses.

93.4.4B

An assessment under subsection (3)(a) that relates to a proposal to do
anything else for the purposes of, or in connection with, the carrying out of
OFCOM’s online safety functions (within the meaning of section 235 of the
Online Safety Act 2023) must, so far as the proposal relates to such
functions, include an assessment of the likely impact of implementing the
proposal on small businesses and micro businesses.

#### Register of categories of regulated user-to-user services and regulated search services

##### Meaning of threshold conditions etc

94

94.1

Schedule 11 contains provision about regulations specifying the threshold
conditions that a Part 3 service must meet to be included in the relevant part
of the register established by OFCOM under section 95, and associated
provision about the publication of OFCOM’s advice.

94.2

In this Chapter, “ Category 1 threshold conditions ”, “ Category 2A threshold
conditions ” and “ Category 2B threshold conditions ” have the same meaning as
in Schedule 11 (see paragraph  1(1) ,  (2)  and  (3)  of that Schedule).

94.3

For the purposes of this Chapter—

94.3.a

references to a service meeting the Category 1, Category 2A or Category 2B
threshold conditions are to a service meeting those conditions in a way
specified in regulations under paragraph 1 of Schedule 11 (see paragraph  1(4)
of that Schedule);

94.3.b

a regulated user-to-user service meets the Category 1 threshold conditions if
those conditions are met in relation to the user-to-user part of the service;

94.3.c

a regulated search service or a combined service meets the Category 2A
threshold conditions if those conditions are met in relation to the search
engine of the service;

94.3.d

a regulated user-to-user service meets the Category 2B threshold conditions if
those conditions are met in relation to the user-to-user part of the service;

94.3.e

a regulated user-to-user service meets the conditions in section 97 (2)  if
those conditions are met in relation to the user-to-user part of the service;

94.3.f

references to OFCOM assessing a service (to determine if it meets, or no
longer meets, the relevant threshold conditions or the conditions in section
97 (2) ) are accordingly to be read as references to OFCOM assessing the
relevant part (or parts) of a service.

##### Register of categories of certain Part 3 services

95

95.1

As soon as reasonably practicable after the first regulations under Schedule
11 come into force, OFCOM must comply with subsections  (2)  to  (4) .

95.2

OFCOM must establish a register of particular categories of Part 3 services
with—

95.2.a

one part for regulated user-to-user services meeting the Category 1 threshold
conditions,

95.2.b

one part for regulated search services and combined services meeting the
Category 2A threshold conditions, and

95.2.c

one part for regulated user-to-user services meeting the Category 2B threshold
conditions.

95.3

OFCOM must assess Part 3 services, as follows—

95.3.a

OFCOM must assess each regulated user-to-user service which they consider is
likely to meet the Category 1 threshold conditions, to determine whether the
service does, or does not, meet those conditions;

95.3.b

OFCOM must assess each regulated search service and combined service which
they consider is likely to meet the Category 2A threshold conditions, to
determine whether the service does, or does not, meet those conditions;

95.3.c

OFCOM must assess each regulated user-to-user service which they consider is
likely to meet the Category 2B threshold conditions, to determine whether the
service does, or does not, meet those conditions.

95.4

If OFCOM consider that a service meets the relevant threshold conditions, they
must add entries relating to that service to the relevant part of the register
established under subsection  (2) .

95.5

But—

95.5.a

if OFCOM consider that a regulated user-to-user service meets the Category 1
threshold conditions and the Category 2B threshold conditions (only), entries
relating to that service are to be added to the part of the register
established under subsection  (2)(a)  (only);

95.5.b

if OFCOM consider that a combined service meets the Category 1 threshold
conditions, the Category 2A threshold conditions and the Category 2B threshold
conditions, entries relating to that service are to be added to the parts of
the register established under subsection  (2)(a)  and  (b)  (only).

95.6

If OFCOM consider that a combined service—

95.6.a

meets the Category 2A threshold conditions, and

95.6.b

meets either the Category 1 threshold conditions or the Category 2B threshold
conditions (but not both),

entries relating to that service are to be added to the part of the register
established under subsection  (2)(b)  and to the part of the register
established under subsection  (2)(a)  or  (c)  (whichever applies).

95.7

Each part of the register must contain—

95.7.a

the name, and a description, of each service that, in OFCOM’s opinion, meets
the relevant threshold conditions, and

95.7.b

the name of the provider of each such service.

95.8

OFCOM must publish the register.

95.9

When assessing whether a Part 3 service does, or does not, meet the relevant
threshold conditions, OFCOM must take such steps as are reasonably practicable
to obtain or generate information or evidence for the purposes of the
assessment.

95.10

In this Act—

95.10.a

a “ Category 1 service ” means a regulated user-to-user service for the time
being included in the part of the register established under subsection
(2)(a) ;

95.10.b

a “ Category 2A service ” means a regulated search service or a combined
service for the time being included in the part of the register established
under subsection  (2)(b) ;

95.10.c

a “ Category 2B service ” means a regulated user-to-user service for the time
being included in the part of the register established under subsection
(2)(c) .

##### Duty to maintain register

96

96.1

If regulations are made under paragraph  1(1)  of Schedule 11 which amend or
replace regulations previously made under that provision, OFCOM must, as soon
as reasonably practicable after the date on which the amending or replacement
regulations come into force—

96.1.a

assess each regulated user-to-user service which they consider is likely to
meet the new Category 1 threshold conditions, to determine whether the service
does, or does not, meet those conditions, and

96.1.b

make any necessary changes to the register.

96.2

If regulations are made under paragraph  1(2)  of Schedule 11 which amend or
replace regulations previously made under that provision, OFCOM must, as soon
as reasonably practicable after the date on which the amending or replacement
regulations come into force—

96.2.a

assess each regulated search service and combined service which they consider
is likely to meet the new Category 2A threshold conditions, to determine
whether the service does, or does not, meet those conditions, and

96.2.b

make any necessary changes to the register.

96.3

If regulations are made under paragraph  1(3)  of Schedule 11 which amend or
replace regulations previously made under that provision, OFCOM must, as soon
as reasonably practicable after the date on which the amending or replacement
regulations come into force—

96.3.a

assess each regulated user-to-user service which they consider is likely to
meet the new Category 2B threshold conditions, to determine whether the
service does, or does not, meet those conditions, and

96.3.b

make any necessary changes to the register.

96.4

At any other time, if OFCOM consider that a Part 3 service not included in a
particular part of the register is likely to meet the threshold conditions
relevant to that part, OFCOM must—

96.4.a

assess the service accordingly, and

96.4.b

(subject to section 95 (5) ) if they consider that the service meets the
relevant conditions, add entries relating to that service to that part of the
register.

96.5

Nothing in subsection  (3)  or  (4)  requires OFCOM to assess a Category 1
service to determine whether the service meets the Category 2B threshold
conditions.

96.6

A provider of a Part 3 service included in the register may at any time
request OFCOM to remove entries relating to that service from the register, or
from a particular part of the register.

96.7

If OFCOM are satisfied, on the basis of evidence submitted by a provider with
such a request, that since the registration day there has been a change to the
service or to regulations under paragraph 1 of Schedule 11 which appears
likely to be relevant, OFCOM must—

96.7.a

assess the service, and

96.7.b

notify the provider of OFCOM’s decision.

96.8

OFCOM must remove entries relating to a Part 3 service from the relevant part
of the register if, following an assessment of the service, they consider that
it no longer meets the threshold conditions relevant to that part.

96.9

Section 95 (9)  applies to an assessment under this section as it applies to
an assessment under section 95.

96.10

OFCOM must re-publish the register each time a change is made to it.

96.11

See section 167 for provision about appeals against a decision to include a
service in the register (or in a particular part of the register), or not to
remove a service from the register (or from a particular part of the
register).

96.12

In this section—

      “ the register ” means the register established under section 95;
“ the registration day ”, in relation to a Part 3 service, means—         the
day on which entries relating to the service were added to the register, or to
the particular part of the register in question, or           if later, the
day on which OFCOM last completed an assessment of the service under
subsection  (1) ,  (2) ,  (3)  or  (7) .

##### List of emerging Category 1 services

97

97.1

As soon as reasonably practicable after the first regulations under paragraph
1(1) of Schedule 11 come into force (regulations specifying Category 1
threshold conditions), OFCOM must comply with subsections  (2)  and  (3) .

97.2

OFCOM must assess each regulated user-to-user service which does not meet the
Category 1 threshold conditions and which they consider is likely to meet each
of the following conditions, to determine whether the service does, or does
not, meet them—

97.2.a

the first condition is that the number of United Kingdom users of the user-to-
user part of the service is at least 75% of the figure specified in any of the
Category 1 threshold conditions relating to number of users (calculating the
number of users in accordance with the threshold condition in question);

97.2.b

the second condition is that—

97.2.b.i

at least one of the Category 1 threshold conditions relating to
functionalities of the user-to-user part of the service is met, or

97.2.b.ii

if the regulations under paragraph  1(1)  of Schedule 11 specify that a
Category 1 threshold condition relating to a functionality of the user-to-user
part of the service must be met in combination with a Category 1 threshold
condition relating to another characteristic of that part of the service or a
factor relating to that part of the service (see paragraph  1(4)  of Schedule
11), at least one of those combinations of conditions is met.

97.3

OFCOM must prepare a list of regulated user-to-user services which meet the
conditions in subsection  (2) .

97.4

If the regulations under paragraph  1(1)  of Schedule 11 specify that a
service meets the Category 1 threshold conditions if any one condition about
number of users or functionality is met (as mentioned in paragraph  1(4)(a)
of that Schedule)—

97.4.a

subsection  (2)  applies as if paragraph (b) were omitted, and

97.4.b

subsections  (3)  and  (8)  apply as if the reference to the conditions in
subsection  (2)  were to the condition in subsection  (2)(a) .

97.5

The list must contain the following details about a service included in it—

97.5.a

the name of the service,

97.5.b

a description of the service,

97.5.c

the name of the provider of the service, and

97.5.d

a description of the Category 1 threshold conditions by reference to which the
conditions in subsection  (2)  are met.

97.6

OFCOM must take appropriate steps to keep the list up to date, including by
carrying out further assessments of regulated user-to-user services.

97.7

OFCOM must publish the list when it is first prepared and each time it is
revised.

97.8

When assessing whether a service does, or does not, meet the conditions in
subsection  (2) , OFCOM must take such steps as are reasonably practicable to
obtain or generate information or evidence for the purposes of the assessment.

97.9

An assessment for the purposes of this section may be included in an
assessment under section 95 or 96 (as the case may be) or carried out
separately.

#### Risk assessments of regulated user-to-user services and regulated search services

##### OFCOM’s register of risks, and risk profiles, of Part 3 services

98

98.1

OFCOM must carry out risk assessments to identify and assess the following
risks of harm presented by Part 3 services of different kinds—

98.1.a

the risks of harm to individuals in the United Kingdom presented by illegal
content present on regulated user-to-user services and by the use of such
services for the commission or facilitation of priority offences;

98.1.b

the risk of harm to individuals in the United Kingdom presented by search
content of regulated search services that is illegal content;

98.1.c

the risk of harm to children in the United Kingdom, in different age groups,
presented by content that is harmful to children.

98.2

The risk assessments must, among other things, identify characteristics of
different kinds of Part 3 services that are relevant to such risks of harm,
and assess the impact of those kinds of characteristics on such risks.

98.3

OFCOM—

98.3.a

may combine assessment of any or all of the risks of harm mentioned in
subsection  (1) , or may carry out separate assessments of those risks;

98.3.b

in the case of the risk of harm mentioned in subsection (1)(c), may assess
regulated user-to-user services and regulated search services separately or
together.

98.4

The findings of each risk assessment are to be reflected, as soon as
reasonably practicable after completion, in a register of risks of Part 3
services prepared and published by OFCOM.

98.5

As soon as reasonably practicable after completing their assessment of a risk
of harm mentioned in a particular paragraph of subsection  (1) , OFCOM must
prepare risk profiles for Part 3 services which relate to that risk of harm.

98.6

For the purposes of the risk profiles, OFCOM may group Part 3 services
together in whichever way they consider appropriate, taking into account—

98.6.a

the characteristics of the services, and

98.6.b

the risk levels and other matters identified in the relevant risk assessment.

98.7

OFCOM must publish risk profiles prepared under this section.

98.8

OFCOM must from time to time review and revise the risk assessments and risk
profiles so as to keep them up to date.

98.9

References in this section to Part 3 services—

98.9.a

in the case of a risk assessment or risk profiles which relate only to
regulated user-to-user services or to regulated search services, are to be
read as references to the kind of service in question;

98.9.b

in the case of a risk assessment or risk profiles which relate only to the
risk of harm mentioned in subsection (1)(a), are to be read as references to
regulated user-to-user services;

98.9.c

in the case of a risk assessment or risk profiles which relate only to the
risk of harm mentioned in subsection (1)(b), are to be read as references to
regulated search services.

98.10

References in this section to regulated search services include references to
the search engine of combined services.

98.11

In this section the “characteristics” of a service include its
functionalities, user base, business model, governance and other systems and
processes.

98.12

In this section—

      “ content that is harmful to children ” has the same meaning as in Part
3 (see section 60);           “ illegal content ” has the same meaning as in
Part 3 (see section 59);           “ priority offence ” has the same meaning
as in Part 3 (see section 59).

##### OFCOM’s guidance about risk assessments

99

99.1

As soon as reasonably practicable after OFCOM have published the first risk
profiles relating to the illegality risks, OFCOM must produce guidance to
assist providers of regulated user-to-user services in complying with their
duties to carry out illegal content risk assessments under section 9.

99.2

As soon as reasonably practicable after OFCOM have published the first risk
profiles relating to the risk of harm from illegal content, OFCOM must produce
guidance to assist providers of regulated search services in complying with
their duties to carry out illegal content risk assessments under section 26.

99.3

As soon as reasonably practicable after OFCOM have published the first risk
profiles relating to the risk of harm to children, OFCOM must produce guidance
to assist providers of Part 3 services in complying with their duties to carry
out children’s risk assessments under section 11 or 28.

99.4

Before producing any guidance under this section (including revised or
replacement guidance), OFCOM must consult the Information Commissioner.

99.5

OFCOM must revise guidance under this section from time to time in response to
further risk assessments under section 98 or to revisions of the risk
profiles.

99.6

OFCOM must publish guidance under this section (and any revised or replacement
guidance).

99.7

If the risk profiles mentioned in subsection  (3)  relate to regulated user-
to-user services only or to regulated search services only, that subsection is
to be read as requiring the production of guidance relating only to regulated
user-to-user services or to regulated search services, as the case may be.

99.8

References in this section to regulated search services include references to
the search engine of combined services.

99.9

In this section—

      “ illegality risks ” means the risks mentioned in section 98(1)(a);
“ risk of harm from illegal content ” means the risk of harm mentioned in
section 98(1)(b);           “ risk of harm to children ” means the risk of
harm mentioned in section 98 (1)(c) ;           “ risk profiles ” means risk
profiles prepared under section 98.

#### Information

##### Information powers and information notices

###### Power to require information

100

100.1

OFCOM may by notice under this subsection require a person within subsection
(5)  to provide them with any information that they require for the purpose of
exercising, or deciding whether to exercise, any of their online safety
functions.

100.2

The power conferred by subsection  (1)  includes power to require a person
within subsection  (5)  to—

100.2.a

obtain or generate information;

100.2.b

provide information about the use of a service by a named individual.

100.3

The power conferred by subsection  (1)  also includes power to require a
person within any of paragraphs  (a)  to  (d)  of subsection  (5)  to take
steps so that a person authorised by OFCOM is able to view remotely—

100.3.a

information demonstrating in real time the operation of systems, processes or
features, including functionalities and algorithms, used by a service;

100.3.b

information generated by a service in real time by the performance of a test
or demonstration of a kind required by a notice under subsection  (1) .

100.4

But the power conferred by subsection  (1)  must be exercised in a way that is
proportionate to the use to which the information is to be put in the exercise
of OFCOM’s functions.

100.5

The persons within this subsection are—

100.5.a

a provider of a user-to-user service or a search service,

100.5.b

a provider of an internet service on which regulated provider pornographic
content is published or displayed,

100.5.c

a person who provides an ancillary service (within the meaning of section 144)
in relation to a regulated service (see subsections  (11)  and  (12)  of that
section),

100.5.d

a person who provides an access facility (within the meaning of section 146)
in relation to a regulated service (see subsections  (10)  and  (11)  of that
section),

100.5.e

a person who was within any of paragraphs  (a)  to  (d)  at a time to which
the required information relates, and

100.5.f

a person not within any of paragraphs  (a)  to  (e)  who appears to OFCOM to
have, or to be able to generate or obtain, information required by them as
mentioned in subsection  (1) .

100.6

The information that may be required by OFCOM under subsection  (1)  includes,
in particular, information that they require for any one or more of the
following purposes—

100.6.a

the purpose of assessing compliance with—

100.6.a.i

any duty or requirement set out in Chapter 2, 3, 4 or 5 of Part 3,

100.6.a.ii

any duty set out in section 64 (user identity verification),

100.6.a.iii

any requirement under section 66 (reporting CSEA content),

100.6.a.iv

any duty set out in section 71 or 72 (terms of service),

100.6.a.v

any duty set out in section 75 (deceased child users),

100.6.a.vi

any requirement relating to transparency reporting (see section 77 (3)  and
(4) ), or

100.6.a.vii

any duty set out in section 81 (provider pornographic content);

100.6.b

the purpose of assessing compliance with a requirement under section 83 (duty
to notify OFCOM in relation to the charging of fees);

100.6.c

the purpose of a consultation about a threshold figure as mentioned in section
86 (threshold figure for the purposes of charging fees);

100.6.d

the purpose of ascertaining the amount of a person’s qualifying worldwide
revenue for the purposes of—

100.6.d.i

Part 6 (fees), or

100.6.d.ii

paragraph  4  or  5  of Schedule 13 (amount of penalties etc);

100.6.e

the purpose of assessing compliance with any requirements imposed on a person
by—

100.6.e.i

a notice under section 121 (1)  (notices to deal with terrorism content and
CSEA content), or

100.6.e.ii

a confirmation decision;

100.6.f

the purpose of assessing the accuracy and effectiveness of technology required
to be used by—

100.6.f.i

a notice under section 121 (1) , or

100.6.f.ii

a confirmation decision;

100.6.g

the purpose of assessing whether to give a notice under section 121 (1)
relating to the development or sourcing of technology (see subsections  (2)(b)
and  (3)(b)  of that section);

100.6.h

the purpose of dealing with complaints made to OFCOM under section 169 (super-
complaints);

100.6.i

the purpose of OFCOM’s advice to the Secretary of State about provision to be
made by regulations under paragraph  1  of Schedule 11 (threshold conditions
for categories of Part 3 services);

100.6.j

the purpose of determining whether a Part 3 service meets threshold conditions
specified in regulations under paragraph  1  of Schedule 11;

100.6.k

the purpose of preparing a code of practice under section 41;

100.6.l

the purpose of preparing guidance in relation to online safety matters;

100.6.m

the purpose of carrying out research, or preparing a report, in relation to
online safety matters;

100.6.n

the purpose of complying with OFCOM’s duties under section 11 of the
Communications Act, so far as relating to regulated services (media literacy).

100.7

See also section 103 (power to include a requirement to name a senior
manager).

100.8

The reference in subsection (3) to a person authorised by OFCOM is to a person
authorised by OFCOM in writing for the purposes of notices that impose
requirements of a kind mentioned in that subsection, and such a person must
produce evidence of their identity if requested to do so by a person in
receipt of such a notice.

100.9

The power conferred by subsection  (1)  does not include power to require the
provision of information in respect of which a claim to legal professional
privilege, or (in Scotland) to confidentiality of communications, could be
maintained in legal proceedings.

100.10

In this section—

      “ information ” includes documents, and any reference to providing
information includes a reference to producing a document (and see also section
102 (11) );           “ regulated provider pornographic content ” and “
published or displayed ” have the same meaning as in Part 5 (see section 79).

###### Information in connection with an investigation into the death of a child

101

101.1

OFCOM may by notice under this subsection require a relevant person to provide
them with information for the purpose of—

101.1.a

responding to a notice given by a senior coroner under paragraph 1(2) of
Schedule 5 to the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 in connection with an
investigation into the death of a child, or preparing a report under section
163 in connection with such an investigation;

101.1.b

responding to a request for information in connection with the investigation
of a procurator fiscal into, or an inquiry held or to be held in relation to,
the death of a child, or preparing a report under section 163 in connection
with such an inquiry;

101.1.c

responding to a notice given by a coroner under section 17A(2) of the
Coroners Act (Northern Ireland) 1959 (c. 15 (N.I.))  in connection with—

101.1.c.i

an investigation to determine whether an inquest into the death of a child is
necessary, or

101.1.c.ii

an inquest in relation to the death of a child,

or preparing a report under section 163 in connection with such an
investigation or inquest.

101.2

The power conferred by subsection (1) includes power to require a relevant
person to provide OFCOM with information about the use of a regulated service
by the child whose death is under investigation, including, in particular—

101.2.a

content encountered by the child by means of the service,

101.2.b

how the content came to be encountered by the child (including the role of
algorithms or particular functionalities),

101.2.c

how the child interacted with the content (for example, by viewing, sharing or
storing it or enlarging or pausing on it), and

101.2.d

content generated, uploaded or shared by the child.

101.3

The power conferred by subsection (1) includes power to require a relevant
person to obtain or generate information.

101.4

The power conferred by subsection (1) must be exercised in a way that is
proportionate to the purpose mentioned in that subsection.

101.5

The power conferred by subsection (1) does not include power to require the
provision of information in respect of which a claim to legal professional
privilege, or (in Scotland) to confidentiality of communications, could be
maintained in legal proceedings.

101.6

Nothing in this section limits the power conferred on OFCOM by section 100.

101.7

In this section—

      “ information ” includes documents, and any reference to providing
information includes a reference to producing a document (and see also section
102 (11) );           “ inquiry ” means an inquiry held, or to be held, under
the Inquiries into Fatal Accidents and Sudden Deaths etc. (Scotland) Act  2016
(asp 2) ;           “ relevant person ” means a person within any of
paragraphs (a) to (e) of section 100 (5) .

###### Information notices

102

102.1

A notice given under section 100(1) or 101 (1)  is referred to in this Act as
an information notice.

102.2

An information notice may require information in any form (including in
electronic form).

102.3

An information notice must—

102.3.a

specify or describe the information to be provided,

102.3.b

specify why OFCOM require the information,

102.3.c

specify the form and manner in which it must be provided, and

102.3.d

contain information about the consequences of not complying with the notice.

102.4

An information notice must specify when the information must be provided
(which may be on or by a specified date, within a specified period, or at
specified intervals).

102.5

An information notice requiring a person to take steps of a kind mentioned in
section 100(3) must give the person at least seven days’ notice before the
steps are required to be taken.

102.6

An information notice may specify a place at which, and a person to whom,
information is to be provided.

102.7

A person to whom a document is produced in response to an information notice
may—

102.7.a

take copies of, or extracts from, the document;

102.7.b

require the person producing the document, or a person who is or was an
officer of that person, or (in the case of a partnership) a person who is or
was a partner, to give an explanation of it.

102.8

A person to whom an information notice is given has a duty—

102.8.a

to act in accordance with the requirements of the notice, and

102.8.b

to ensure that the information provided is accurate in all material respects.

102.9

OFCOM may cancel an information notice by notice to the person to whom it was
given.

102.10

In this section—

      “ information ” includes documents, and any reference to providing
information includes a reference to producing a document;           “ officer
”, in relation to an entity, includes a director, a manager, an associate, a
secretary or, where the affairs of the entity are managed by its members, a
member.

102.11

In relation to information recorded otherwise than in a legible form,
references in this section to producing a document are to producing a copy of
the information—

102.11.a

in a legible form, or

102.11.b

in a form from which it can readily be produced in a legible form.

###### Requirement to name a senior manager

103

103.1

This section applies where—

103.1.a

OFCOM give a provider of a regulated service an information notice, and

103.1.b

the provider is an entity.

103.2

OFCOM may include in the information notice a requirement that the provider
must name, in their response to the notice, an individual who the provider
considers to be a senior manager of the entity and who may reasonably be
expected to be in a position to ensure compliance with the requirements of the
notice.

103.3

If OFCOM impose a requirement to name an individual, the information notice
must—

103.3.a

require the provider to inform such an individual, and

103.3.b

include information about the consequences for such an individual of the
entity’s failure to comply with the requirements of the notice (see section
110).

103.4

An individual is a “senior manager” of an entity if the individual plays a
significant role in—

103.4.a

the making of decisions about how the entity’s relevant activities are to be
managed or organised, or

103.4.b

the actual managing or organising of the entity’s relevant activities.

103.5

An entity’s “relevant activities” are activities relating to the entity’s
compliance with the regulatory requirements imposed by this Act in connection
with the regulated service to which the information notice in question
relates.

##### Skilled persons' reports

###### Reports by skilled persons

104

104.1

OFCOM may exercise the powers in this section where they consider that it is
necessary to do so for either of the following purposes—

104.1.a

assisting OFCOM in identifying and assessing a failure, or possible failure,
by a provider of a regulated service to comply with a relevant requirement, or

104.1.b

developing OFCOM’s understanding of—

104.1.b.i

the nature and level of risk of a provider of a regulated service failing to
comply with a relevant requirement, and

104.1.b.ii

ways to mitigate such a risk.

104.2

But the powers in this section may be exercised for a purpose mentioned in
subsection (1)(b) only where OFCOM consider that the provider in question may
be at risk of failing to comply with a relevant requirement.

104.3

Section 122 requires OFCOM to exercise the power in subsection  (4)  for the
purpose of assisting OFCOM in connection with a notice under section 121 (1) .

104.4

OFCOM may appoint a skilled person to provide them with a report about matters
relevant to the purpose for which the powers under this section are exercised
(“the relevant matters”), and, where OFCOM make such an appointment, they must
notify the provider about the appointment and the relevant matters to be
explored in the report.

104.5

Alternatively, OFCOM may give a notice to the provider—

104.5.a

requiring the provider to appoint a skilled person to provide OFCOM with a
report in such form as may be specified in the notice, and

104.5.b

specifying the relevant matters to be explored in the report.

104.6

References in this section to a skilled person are to a person—

104.6.a

appearing to OFCOM to have the skills necessary to prepare a report about the
relevant matters, and

104.6.b

where the appointment is to be made by the provider, nominated or approved by
OFCOM.

104.7

It is the duty of—

104.7.a

the provider of the service (“ P ”),

104.7.b

any person who works for (or used to work for) P, or is providing (or used to
provide) services to P related to the relevant matters, and

104.7.c

other providers of internet services,

to give the skilled person all such assistance as the skilled person may
reasonably require to prepare the report.

104.8

The provider of the service is liable for the payment, directly to the skilled
person, of the skilled person’s remuneration and expenses relating to the
preparation of the report.

104.9

Subsections  (10)  to  (12)  apply in relation to an amount due to a skilled
person under subsection  (8) .

104.10

In England and Wales, such an amount is recoverable—

104.10.a

if the county court so orders, as if it were payable under an order of that
court;

104.10.b

if the High Court so orders, as if it were payable under an order of that
court.

104.11

In Scotland, such an amount may be enforced in the same manner as an extract
registered decree arbitral bearing a warrant for execution issued by the
sheriff court of any sheriffdom in Scotland.

104.12

In Northern Ireland, such an amount is recoverable—

104.12.a

if a county court so orders, as if it were payable under an order of that
court;

104.12.b

if the High Court so orders, as if it were payable under an order of that
court.

104.13

In this section “ relevant requirement ” means—

104.13.a

a duty or requirement set out in any of the following—

104.13.a.i

section 9, 11, 26 or 28 (risk assessments);

104.13.a.ii

section 10 or 27 (illegal content);

104.13.a.iii

section 12 or 29 (children’s online safety);

104.13.a.iv

section 14 (assessments related to the adult user empowerment duty set out in
section 15(2));

104.13.a.v

section 15 (user empowerment);

104.13.a.vi

section 20 or 31 (content reporting);

104.13.a.vii

section 21 or 32 (complaints procedures);

104.13.a.viii

section 23 or 34 (record-keeping and review);

104.13.a.ix

section 36 (children’s access assessments);

104.13.a.x

section 38 or 39 (fraudulent advertising);

104.13.a.xi

section 64 (user identity verification);

104.13.a.xii

section 66 (reporting CSEA content);

104.13.a.xiii

section 71 or 72 (terms of service);

104.13.a.xiv

section 75 (deceased child users);

104.13.a.xv

section 77 (3)  or  (4)  (transparency reports);

104.13.a.xvi

section 81(2) (children’s access to pornographic content);

104.13.b

a requirement under section 83 to notify OFCOM in connection with the charging
of fees (see subsections  (1) ,  (3)  and  (5)  of that section); or

104.13.c

a requirement imposed by a notice under section 121 (1)  (notices to deal with
terrorism content and CSEA content).

##### Investigations and interviews

###### Investigations

105

105.1

If OFCOM open an investigation into whether a provider of a regulated service
has failed, or is failing, to comply with any requirement mentioned in
subsection  (2) , the provider must co-operate fully with the investigation.

105.2

The requirements are—

105.2.a

a requirement imposed by a notice under section 121 (1)  (notices to deal with
terrorism content and CSEA content), and

105.2.b

an enforceable requirement as defined in section 131 (except the requirement
in subsection  (1)  of this section).

###### Power to require interviews

106

106.1

The power conferred by this section is exercisable by OFCOM for the purposes
of an investigation that they are carrying out into the failure, or possible
failure, of a provider of a regulated service to comply with a relevant
requirement.

106.2

OFCOM may give an individual within subsection  (4)  a notice requiring the
individual—

106.2.a

to attend at a time and place specified in the notice, and

106.2.b

to answer questions and provide explanations about any matter relevant to the
investigation.

106.3

A notice under this section must—

106.3.a

indicate the subject matter and purpose of the interview, and

106.3.b

contain information about the consequences of not complying with the notice.

106.4

The individuals within this subsection are—

106.4.a

if the provider of the service is an individual or individuals, that
individual or those individuals,

106.4.b

an officer of the provider of the service,

106.4.c

if the provider of the service is a partnership, a partner,

106.4.d

an employee of the provider of the service, and

106.4.e

an individual who was within any of paragraphs  (a)  to  (d)  at a time to
which the required information or explanation relates.

106.5

If OFCOM give a notice to an individual within subsection  (4)(b) ,  (c)  or
(d) , they must give a copy of the notice to the provider of the service.

106.6

An individual is not required under this section to disclose information in
respect of which a claim to legal professional privilege, or (in Scotland) to
confidentiality of communications, could be maintained in legal proceedings.

106.7

In this section—

      “ officer ”, in relation to an entity, includes a director, a manager,
an associate, a secretary or, where the affairs of the entity are managed by
its members, a member;           “ relevant requirement ” has the meaning
given by section 104(13).

##### Powers of entry, inspection and audit

###### Powers of entry, inspection and audit

107

Schedule 12 makes provision about—

107.a

OFCOM’s powers of entry and inspection, and

107.b

the carrying out of audits by OFCOM.

###### Amendment of Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001

108

108.1

The Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 is amended as follows.

108.2

In section 57(1) (retention of seized items), after paragraph (t) insert—

108.2.u

paragraph 8 of Schedule 12 to the Online Safety Act 2023.

108.3

In section 65 (meaning of “ legal privilege ”)—

108.3.a

after subsection (8B) insert—

108.3.a.8C

An item which is, or is comprised in, property which has been seized in
exercise or purported exercise of the power of seizure conferred by paragraph
7(f), (j) or (k) of Schedule 12 to the Online Safety Act 2023 is to be taken
for the purposes of this Part to be an item subject to legal privilege if, and
only if, the seizure of that item was in contravention of paragraph 17(3) of
that Schedule (privileged information or documents).

;

108.3.b

in subsection (9)—

108.3.b.i

at the end of paragraph (d) omit “or”;

108.3.b.ii

at the end of paragraph (e) insert  “or” ;

108.3.b.iii

before the closing words insert—

108.3.b.iii.g

paragraph 7(f), (j) or (k) of Schedule 12 to the Online Safety Act 2023.

108.4

In Part 1 of Schedule 1 (powers of seizure to which section 50 of the Act
applies), after paragraph 73U insert—

############ Online Safety Act 2023

108.4.73V

Each of the powers of seizure conferred by paragraph 7(f), (j) and (k) of
Schedule 12 to the Online Safety Act 2023.

##### Information offences and penalties

###### Offences in connection with information notices

109

109.1

A person commits an offence if the person fails to comply with a requirement
of an information notice.

109.2

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under subsection  (1)  to
show that—

109.2.a

it was not reasonably practicable to comply with the requirements of the
information notice at the time required by the notice, but

109.2.b

the person has subsequently taken all reasonable steps to comply with those
requirements.

109.3

A person commits an offence if, in response to an information notice—

109.3.a

the person provides information that is false in a material respect, and

109.3.b

at the time the person provides it, the person knows that it is false in a
material respect or is reckless as to whether it is false in a material
respect.

109.4

A person commits an offence if, in response to an information notice, the
person—

109.4.a

provides information which is encrypted such that it is not possible for OFCOM
to understand it, or produces a document which is encrypted such that it is
not possible for OFCOM to understand the information it contains, and

109.4.b

the person’s intention was to prevent OFCOM from understanding such
information.

109.5

A person commits an offence if—

109.5.a

the person suppresses, destroys or alters, or causes or permits the
suppression, destruction or alteration of, any information required to be
provided, or document required to be produced, by an information notice, and

109.5.b

the person’s intention was to prevent OFCOM from being provided with the
information or document or (as the case may be) from being provided with it as
it was before the alteration.

109.6

The reference in subsection  (5)  to suppressing information or a document
includes a reference to destroying the means of reproducing information
recorded otherwise than in a legible form.

109.7

Offences under this section may be committed only in relation to an
information notice which—

109.7.a

relates to—

109.7.a.i

a user-to-user service,

109.7.a.ii

a search service, or

109.7.a.iii

an internet service on which regulated provider pornographic content is
published or displayed; and

109.7.b

is given to the provider of that service.

109.8

If a person is convicted of an offence under this section, the court may, on
an application by the prosecutor, make an order requiring the person to comply
with a requirement of an information notice within such period as may be
specified by the order.

109.9

See also section 201 (supplementary provision about defences).

109.10

In this section, “ regulated provider pornographic content ” and “ published
or displayed ” have the same meaning as in Part 5 (see section 79).

###### Senior managers’ liability: information offences

110

110.1

In this section “ an individual named as a senior manager of an entity ” means
an individual who, as required by an information notice, is named as a senior
manager of an entity in a response to that notice (see section 103).

110.2

An individual named as a senior manager of an entity commits an offence if—

110.2.a

the entity commits an offence under section 109 (1)  (failure to comply with
information notice), and

110.2.b

the individual has failed to take all reasonable steps to prevent that offence
being committed.

110.3

It is a defence for an individual charged with an offence under subsection
(2)  to show that the individual was a senior manager within the meaning of
section 103 for such a short time after the information notice in question was
given that the individual could not reasonably have been expected to take
steps to prevent that offence being committed.

110.4

An individual named as a senior manager of an entity commits an offence if—

110.4.a

the entity commits an offence under section 109 (3)  (false information), and

110.4.b

the individual has failed to take all reasonable steps to prevent that offence
being committed.

110.5

An individual named as a senior manager of an entity commits an offence if—

110.5.a

the entity commits an offence under section 109 (4)  (encrypted information),
and

110.5.b

the individual has failed to take all reasonable steps to prevent that offence
being committed.

110.6

An individual named as a senior manager of an entity commits an offence if—

110.6.a

the entity commits an offence under section 109 (5)  (destruction etc of
information), and

110.6.b

the individual has failed to take all reasonable steps to prevent that offence
being committed.

110.7

It is a defence for an individual charged with an offence under subsection
(4) ,  (5)  or  (6)  to show that the individual was not a senior manager
within the meaning of section 103 at the time at which the act constituting
the offence occurred.

110.8

It is a defence for an individual charged with an offence under this section
to show that the individual had no knowledge of being named as a senior
manager in a response to the information notice in question.

110.9

See also section 201 (supplementary provision about defences).

###### Offences in connection with notices under Schedule 12

111

111.1

A person commits an offence if the person fails without reasonable excuse to
comply with a requirement of an audit notice.

111.2

A person commits an offence if, in response to an audit notice—

111.2.a

the person provides information that is false in a material respect, and

111.2.b

at the time the person provides it, the person knows that it is false in a
material respect or is reckless as to whether it is false in a material
respect.

111.3

A person commits an offence if—

111.3.a

the person suppresses, destroys or alters, or causes or permits the
suppression, destruction or alteration of, any information required to be
provided, or document required to be produced, by a notice to which this
subsection applies, and

111.3.b

the person’s intention was to prevent OFCOM from being provided with the
information or document or (as the case may be) from being provided with it as
it was before the alteration.

111.4

The reference in subsection  (3)  to suppressing information or a document
includes a reference to destroying the means of reproducing information
recorded otherwise than in a legible form.

111.5

Subsection  (3)  applies to—

111.5.a

a notice under paragraph  3  of Schedule 12 (information required for
inspection), and

111.5.b

an audit notice (see paragraph  4  of that Schedule).

111.6

If a person is convicted of an offence under this section, the court may, on
an application by the prosecutor, make an order requiring the person, within
such period as may be specified by the order, to comply with a requirement of
a notice under paragraph  3  of Schedule 12 or an audit notice (as the case
may be).

###### Other information offences

112

112.1

A person commits an offence if the person intentionally obstructs or delays a
person in the exercise of the power conferred by section 102 (7)(a)  (copying
a document etc).

112.2

A person commits an offence if the person fails without reasonable excuse to
comply with a requirement under section 106 (interviews).

112.3

A person commits an offence if, in purported compliance with a requirement
under section 106—

112.3.a

the person provides information that is false in a material respect, and

112.3.b

at the time the person provides it, the person knows that it is false in a
material respect or is reckless as to whether it is false in a material
respect.

112.4

If a person is convicted of an offence under this section, the court may, on
an application by the prosecutor, make an order requiring the person, within
such period as may be specified by the order, to permit the making of a copy
of a document, or to comply with a requirement under section 106 (as the case
may be).

###### Penalties for information offences

113

113.1

A person who commits an offence under section 109 (1) , 110 (2)  or 111 (1)
is liable—

113.1.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to a fine;

113.1.b

on summary conviction in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding
the statutory maximum;

113.1.c

on conviction on indictment, to a fine.

113.2

A person who commits an offence under section 109 (3) ,  (4)  or  (5) , 110
(4) ,  (5)  or  (6) , 111 (2)  or  (3)  or 112 (1)  is liable—

113.2.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

113.2.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

113.2.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

113.2.d

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years
or a fine (or both).

113.3

A person who commits an offence under section 112 (2)  or  (3)  is liable—

113.3.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to a fine;

113.3.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the
standard scale;

113.3.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on
the standard scale.

##### Disclosure of information

###### Co-operation and disclosure of information: overseas regulators

114

114.1

OFCOM may co-operate with an overseas regulator, including by disclosing
online safety information to that regulator, for the purposes of—

114.1.a

facilitating the exercise by the overseas regulator of any of that regulator’s
online regulatory functions, or

114.1.b

criminal investigations or proceedings relating to a matter to which the
overseas regulator’s online regulatory functions relate.

114.2

The power conferred by subsection  (1)  applies only in relation to an
overseas regulator for the time being specified in regulations made by the
Secretary of State.

114.3

Where information is disclosed to a person in reliance on subsection  (1) ,
the person may not—

114.3.a

use the information for a purpose other than the purpose for which it was
disclosed, or

114.3.b

further disclose the information,

except with OFCOM’s consent (which may be general or specific) or in
accordance with an order of a court or tribunal.

114.4

Except as provided by subsection  (5) , a disclosure of information under
subsection  (1)  does not breach—

114.4.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

114.4.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

114.5

Subsection  (1)  does not authorise a disclosure of information that—

114.5.a

would contravene the restriction imposed by section 116 (intelligence service
information),

114.5.b

would contravene the data protection legislation (but in determining whether a
disclosure would do so, the power conferred by that subsection is to be taken
into account), or

114.5.c

is prohibited by any of Parts 1 to 7 or Chapter 1 of Part 9 of the
Investigatory Powers Act 2016.

114.6

Section 18 of the Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001 (restriction on
disclosure of information for overseas purposes) has effect in relation to a
disclosure authorised by subsection  (1)(b)  as it has effect in relation to a
disclosure authorised by any of the provisions to which section 17 of that Act
applies.

114.7

In this section—

      “ online regulatory functions ”, in relation to an overseas regulator,
means functions of that regulator which correspond to OFCOM’s online safety
functions;           “ online safety information ” means information held by
OFCOM in connection with any of OFCOM’s online safety functions;           “
overseas regulator ” means a person exercising functions in a country outside
the United Kingdom which correspond to any of OFCOM’s online safety functions;
“ the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act).

###### Disclosure of information

115

115.1

Section 393 of the Communications Act (general restrictions on disclosure of
information) is amended as follows.

115.2

In subsection (1)—

115.2.a

at the end of paragraph (c) omit “or”,

115.2.b

at the end of paragraph (d) insert  “or” , and

115.2.c

after paragraph (d) insert—

115.2.c.e

the Online Safety Act 2023,

.

115.3

In subsection (2)(e), after “this Act” insert  “or the Online Safety Act 2023”
.

115.4

In subsection (3), after paragraph (h) insert—

115.4.ha

a person appointed under—

115.4.ha.i

paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to the Coroners and Justice Act 2009, or

115.4.ha.ii

section 2 of the  Coroners Act (Northern Ireland) 1959 (c. 15 (N.I.)) ;

115.4.hb

the procurator fiscal, within the meaning of the enactment mentioned in
subsection (5)(s);

.

115.5

In subsection (5)—

115.5.a

before paragraph (d) insert—

115.5.a.ca

the Coroners Act (Northern Ireland) 1959;

,

115.5.b

after paragraph (na) insert—

115.5.b.nb

Part 1 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009;

, and

115.5.c

after paragraph (r) insert—

115.5.c.s

the Inquiries into Fatal Accidents and Sudden Deaths etc. (Scotland) Act  2016
(asp 2) .

115.6

In subsection (6)(a), after “390” insert  “, or under section 149 of or
Schedule 11 to the Online Safety Act 2023” .

115.7

In subsection (6)(b), at the end insert  “or the Online Safety Act 2023” .

###### Intelligence service information

116

116.1

OFCOM may not disclose information received (directly or indirectly) from, or
that relates to, an intelligence service unless the intelligence service
consents to the disclosure.

116.2

If OFCOM have disclosed information described in subsection  (1)  to a person,
the person must not further disclose the information unless the intelligence
service consents to the disclosure.

116.3

If OFCOM would contravene subsection  (1)  by publishing in its entirety—

116.3.a

a statement required to be published by section 47 (5) , or

116.3.b

a report mentioned in section 164 (5) ,

OFCOM must, before publication, remove or obscure the information which by
reason of subsection  (1)  they must not disclose.

116.4

In this section—

      “ information ” means information held by OFCOM in connection with an
online safety matter;           “ intelligence service ” means—         the
Security Service,           the Secret Intelligence Service, or           the
Government Communications Headquarters.

###### Provision of information to the Secretary of State

117

117.1

Section 24B of the Communications Act (provision of information to assist in
formulation of policy) is amended as follows.

117.2

In subsection (2)—

117.2.a

at the end of paragraph (d) omit “or”,

117.2.b

at the end of paragraph (e) insert  “or” , and

117.2.c

after paragraph (e) insert—

117.2.c.f

the Online Safety Act 2023,

.

117.3

After subsection (3) insert—

117.3.4

Subsection (2) does not apply to information—

117.3.4.a

obtained by OFCOM—

117.3.4.a.i

in the exercise of a power conferred by section 100 of the Online Safety Act
2023 for the purpose mentioned in subsection  (6)(c)  of that section
(information in connection with a consultation about a threshold figure for
the purposes of charging fees under that Act), or

117.3.4.a.ii

in the exercise of a power conferred by section 175(5) of that Act
(information in connection with circumstances presenting a threat), and

117.3.4.b

reasonably required by the Secretary of State.

###### Amendment of Enterprise Act 2002

118

In Schedule 15 to the Enterprise Act 2002 (enactments relevant to provisions
about disclosure of information), at the appropriate place insert—

      Online Safety Act 2023.

###### Information for users of regulated services

119

119.1

Section 26 of the Communications Act (publication of information and advice
for consumers etc) is amended as follows.

119.2

In subsection (2), after paragraph (d) insert—

119.2.da

United Kingdom users of regulated services;

.

119.3

After subsection (6) insert—

119.3.7

In this section the following terms have the same meaning as in the Online
Safety Act 2023—

      “ regulated service ” (see section 4 of that Act);           “ United
Kingdom user ” (see section 227 of that Act).

###### Admissibility of statements

120

120.1

An explanation given, or information provided, by a person in response to a
requirement imposed under or by virtue of section 100, 101 or 106 or paragraph
2(4)(e)  or  (f) , 3(2),  4(2)(i)  or  (j)  or  7(d)  of Schedule 12, may, in
criminal proceedings, only be used in evidence against that person—

120.1.a

on a prosecution for an offence under a provision listed in subsection  (2) ,
or

120.1.b

on a prosecution for any other offence where—

120.1.b.i

in giving evidence that person makes a statement inconsistent with that
explanation or information, and

120.1.b.ii

evidence relating to that explanation or information is adduced, or a question
relating to it is asked, by that person or on that person’s behalf.

120.2

Those provisions are—

120.2.a

section 69 (1) ,

120.2.b

section 109 (3) ,

120.2.c

section 110 (4) ,

120.2.d

section 111 (2) ,

120.2.e

section 112 (3) ,

120.2.f

paragraph  18 (1)(c) of Schedule 12,

120.2.g

section 5 of the Perjury Act 1911 (false statements made otherwise than on
oath),

120.2.h

section 44(2) of the Criminal Law (Consolidation) (Scotland) Act 1995 (false
statements made otherwise than on oath), and

120.2.i

Article 10 of the Perjury (Northern Ireland) Order 1979 ( S.I. 1979/1714 (N.I.
19) ) (false statutory declarations and other false unsworn statements).

#### Regulated user-to-user services and regulated search services: notices to deal with terrorism content and CSEA content

##### Notices to deal with terrorism content or CSEA content (or both)

121

121.1

If OFCOM consider that it is necessary and proportionate to do so, they may
give a notice described in subsection (2), (3) or (4) relating to a regulated
user-to-user service or a regulated search service to the provider of the
service.

121.2

A notice under subsection (1) that relates to a regulated user-to-user service
is a notice requiring the provider of the service—

121.2.a

to do any or all of the following—

121.2.a.i

use accredited technology to identify terrorism content communicated publicly
by means of the service and to swiftly take down that content;

121.2.a.ii

use accredited technology to prevent individuals from encountering terrorism
content communicated publicly by means of the service;

121.2.a.iii

use accredited technology to identify CSEA content, whether communicated
publicly or privately by means of the service, and to swiftly take down that
content;

121.2.a.iv

use accredited technology to prevent individuals from encountering CSEA
content, whether communicated publicly or privately, by means of the service;
or

121.2.b

to use the provider’s best endeavours to develop or source technology for use
on or in relation to the service or part of the service, which—

121.2.b.i

achieves the purpose mentioned in paragraph (a)(iii) or (iv), and

121.2.b.ii

meets the standards published by the Secretary of State (see section 125(13)).

121.3

A notice under subsection (1) that relates to a regulated search service is a
notice requiring the provider of the service—

121.3.a

to do either or both of the following—

121.3.a.i

use accredited technology to identify search content of the service that is
terrorism content and to swiftly take measures designed to secure, so far as
possible, that search content of the service no longer includes terrorism
content identified by the technology;

121.3.a.ii

use accredited technology to identify search content of the service that is
CSEA content and to swiftly take measures designed to secure, so far as
possible, that search content of the service no longer includes CSEA content
identified by the technology; or

121.3.b

to use the provider’s best endeavours to develop or source technology for use
on or in relation to the service which—

121.3.b.i

achieves the purpose mentioned in paragraph (a)(ii), and

121.3.b.ii

meets the standards published by the Secretary of State (see section 125(13)).

121.4

A notice under subsection (1) that relates to a combined service is a notice
requiring the provider of the service—

121.4.a

to do any or all of the things described in subsection (2)(a) in relation to
the user-to-user part of the service, or to use best endeavours to develop or
source technology as described in subsection (2)(b) for use on or in relation
to that part of the service;

121.4.b

to do either or both of the things described in subsection (3)(a) in relation
to the search engine of the service, or to use best endeavours to develop or
source technology as described in subsection (3)(b) for use on or in relation
to the search engine of the service;

121.4.c

to do any or all of the things described in subsection (2)(a) in relation to
the user-to-user part of the service and either or both of the things
described in subsection (3)(a) in relation to the search engine of the
service; or

121.4.d

to use best endeavours to develop or source—

121.4.d.i

technology as described in subsection (2)(b) for use on or in relation to the
user-to-user part of the service, and

121.4.d.ii

technology as described in subsection (3)(b) for use on or in relation to the
search engine of the service.

121.5

For the purposes of subsections (2) and (3), a requirement to use accredited
technology may be complied with by the use of the technology alone or by means
of the technology together with the use of human moderators.

121.6

See—

121.6.a

section 122, which requires OFCOM to obtain a skilled person’s report before
giving a notice under subsection (1),

121.6.b

section 123, which requires OFCOM to give a warning notice before giving a
notice under subsection (1), and

121.6.c

section 124 for provision about matters which OFCOM must consider before
giving a notice under subsection (1).

121.7

A notice under subsection  (1)  that relates to a user-to-user service (or to
the user-to-user part of a combined service) and requires the use of
technology in relation to terrorism content must identify the content, or
parts of the service that include content, that OFCOM consider is communicated
publicly on that service (see section 232).

121.8

For the meaning of “accredited” technology, see section 125 (12)  and  (13) .

##### Requirement to obtain skilled person’s report

122

122.1

OFCOM may give a notice under section 121 (1)  to a provider only after
obtaining a report from a skilled person appointed by OFCOM under section 104
(4) .

122.2

The purpose of the report is to assist OFCOM in deciding whether to give a
notice under section 121 (1) , and to advise about the requirements that might
be imposed by such a notice if it were to be given.

##### Warning notices

123

123.1

OFCOM may give a notice under section 121(1) to a provider relating to a
service or part of a service only after giving a warning notice to the
provider that they intend to give such a notice relating to that service or
that part of it.

123.2

A warning notice under subsection (1) relating to the use of accredited
technology (see section 121(2)(a) and (3)(a)) must—

123.2.a

contain a summary of the report obtained by OFCOM under section 122,

123.2.b

contain details of the technology that OFCOM are considering requiring the
provider to use,

123.2.c

specify whether the technology is to be required in relation to terrorism
content or CSEA content (or both),

123.2.d

specify any other requirements that OFCOM are considering imposing (see
section 125(2) to (4)),

123.2.e

specify the period for which OFCOM are considering imposing the requirements
(see section 125(7)),

123.2.f

state that the provider may make representations to OFCOM (with any supporting
evidence), and

123.2.g

specify the period within which representations may be made.

123.3

A warning notice under subsection (1) relating to the development or sourcing
of technology (see section 121 (2)(b) and  (3)(b) ) must—

123.3.a

contain a summary of the report obtained by OFCOM under section 122,

123.3.b

describe the proposed purpose for which the technology must be developed or
sourced (see section 121 (2)(a)(iii)  and  (iv)  and (3)(a)(ii)),

123.3.c

specify steps that OFCOM consider the provider needs to take in order to
comply with the requirement described in section 121(2)(b) or (3)(b), or both
those requirements (as the case may be),

123.3.d

specify the proposed period within which the provider must take each of those
steps,

123.3.e

specify any other requirements that OFCOM are considering imposing,

123.3.f

state that the provider may make representations to OFCOM (with any supporting
evidence), and

123.3.g

specify the period within which representations may be made.

123.4

A notice under section 121 (1)  that relates to both the user-to-user part of
a combined service and the search engine of the service (as described in
section 121 (4)(c)  or  (d) ) may be given to the provider of the service only
if—

123.4.a

two separate warning notices have been given to the provider (one relating to
the user-to-user part of the service and the other relating to the search
engine), or

123.4.b

a single warning notice relating to both the user-to-user part of the service
and the search engine has been given to the provider.

123.5

A notice under section 121 (1)  may not be given to a provider until the
period allowed by the warning notice for the provider to make representations
has expired.

##### Matters relevant to a decision to give a notice under section 121

124

124.1

This section specifies the matters which OFCOM must particularly consider in
deciding whether it is necessary and proportionate to give a notice under
section 121 (1)  relating to a Part 3 service to the provider of the service.

124.2

In the case of a notice requiring the use of accredited technology, the
matters are as follows—

124.2.a

the kind of service it is;

124.2.b

the functionalities of the service;

124.2.c

the user base of the service;

124.2.d

in the case of a notice relating to a user-to-user service (or to the user-to-
user part of a combined service), the prevalence of relevant content on the
service, and the extent of its dissemination by means of the service;

124.2.e

in the case of a notice relating to a search service (or to the search engine
of a combined service), the prevalence of search content of the service that
is relevant content;

124.2.f

the level of risk of harm to individuals in the United Kingdom presented by
relevant content, and the severity of that harm;

124.2.g

the systems and processes used by the service which are designed to identify
and remove relevant content;

124.2.h

the contents of the skilled person’s report obtained as required by section
122;

124.2.i

the extent to which the use of the specified technology would or might result
in interference with users’ right to freedom of expression within the law;

124.2.j

the level of risk of the use of the specified technology resulting in a breach
of any statutory provision or rule of law concerning privacy that is relevant
to the use or operation of the service (including, but not limited to, any
such provision or rule concerning the processing of personal data);

124.2.k

in the case of a notice relating to a user-to-user service (or to the user-to-
user part of a combined service), the extent to which the use of the specified
technology would or might—

124.2.k.i

have an adverse impact on the availability of journalistic content on the
service, or

124.2.k.ii

result in a breach of the confidentiality of journalistic sources;

124.2.l

whether the use of any less intrusive measures than the specified technology
would be likely to achieve a significant reduction in the amount of relevant
content.

124.3

The references to relevant content in subsection  (2)(f) , (g) and  (l)  are
to—

124.3.a

in the case of a user-to-user service (or the user-to-user part of a combined
service), relevant content present on the service;

124.3.b

in the case of a search service (or the search engine of a combined service),
search content of the service that is relevant content.

124.4

In the case of a notice relating to the development or sourcing of technology,
subsection (2) applies—

124.4.a

as if references to relevant content were to CSEA content, and

124.4.b

with the omission of paragraphs  (i) ,  (j) ,  (k)  and  (l) .

124.5

In this section—

      “ journalistic content ” has the meaning given by section 19;
“ relevant content ” means terrorism content or CSEA content or both those
kinds of content (depending on the kind, or kinds, of content in relation to
which the specified technology is to operate);           “ specified
technology ” means the technology to be specified in the notice under section
121 (1) .

##### Notices under section 121

125

125.1

In this section “ a notice ” means a notice under section 121 (1)  (including
a further notice under that provision).

125.2

If a provider is already using accredited technology in relation to the
service in question, a notice may require the provider to use it more
effectively (specifying the ways in which that must be done).

125.3

A notice relating to a user-to-user service (or to the user-to-user part of a
combined service) may also require a provider to operate an effective
complaints procedure allowing for United Kingdom users to challenge the
provider for taking down content which they have generated, uploaded or shared
on the service.

125.4

A notice relating to a search service (or to the search engine of a combined
service) may also require a provider to operate an effective complaints
procedure allowing for an interested person (see section 227 (7) ) to
challenge measures taken or in use by the provider that result in content
relating to that interested person no longer appearing in search results of
the service.

125.5

A notice given to a provider of a Part 3 service requiring the use of
accredited technology is to be taken to require the provider to make such
changes to the design or operation of the service as are necessary for the
technology to be used effectively.

125.6

A notice requiring the use of accredited technology must—

125.6.a

give OFCOM’s reasons for their decision to give the notice,

125.6.b

contain details of the requirements imposed by the notice,

125.6.c

contain details of the technology to be used,

125.6.d

contain details about the manner in which the technology is to be implemented,

125.6.e

specify a reasonable period for compliance with the notice,

125.6.f

specify the period for which the notice is to have effect,

125.6.g

contain details of the rights of appeal under section 168,

125.6.h

contain information about when OFCOM intend to review the notice (see section
126), and

125.6.i

contain information about the consequences of not complying with the notice
(including information about the further kinds of enforcement action that it
would be open to OFCOM to take).

125.7

A notice requiring the use of accredited technology may impose requirements
for a period of up to 36 months beginning with the last day of the period
specified in the notice in accordance with subsection  (6)(e) .

125.8

A notice relating to the development or sourcing of technology must—

125.8.a

give OFCOM’s reasons for their decision to give the notice,

125.8.b

describe the purpose for which technology is required to be developed or
sourced (see section 121 (2)(a)(iii)  and  (iv)  and  (3)(a)(ii) ,

125.8.c

specify steps that the provider is required to take (including steps relating
to the use of a system or process) in order to comply with the requirement
described in section 121 (2)(b)  or  (3)(b) , or both those requirements (as
the case may be),

125.8.d

specify a reasonable period within which each of the steps specified in the
notice must be taken,

125.8.e

contain details of any other requirements imposed by the notice,

125.8.f

contain details of the rights of appeal under section 168,

125.8.g

contain information about when OFCOM intend to review the notice (see section
126), and

125.8.h

contain information about the consequences of not complying with the notice
(including information about the further kinds of enforcement action that it
would be open to OFCOM to take).

125.9

In deciding what period or periods to specify for steps to be taken in
accordance with subsection (8)(d), OFCOM must, in particular, consider—

125.9.a

the size and capacity of the provider, and

125.9.b

the state of development of technology capable of achieving the purpose
described in the notice in accordance with subsection (8)(b).

125.10

A notice may impose requirements only in relation to the design and operation
of a Part 3 service—

125.10.a

in the United Kingdom, or

125.10.b

as it affects United Kingdom users of the service.

125.11

OFCOM may vary or revoke a notice given to a provider by notifying the
provider to that effect.

125.12

For the purposes of this Chapter, technology is “accredited” if it is
accredited (by OFCOM or another person appointed by OFCOM) as meeting minimum
standards of accuracy in the detection of terrorism content or CSEA content
(as the case may be).

125.13

Those minimum standards of accuracy must be such standards as are for the time
being approved and published by the Secretary of State, following advice from
OFCOM.

##### Review and further notice under section 121

126

126.1

This section applies where OFCOM have given a provider of a Part 3 service a
notice under section 121 (1) .

126.2

The power conferred by section 125 (11)  includes power to revoke the notice
if there are reasonable grounds for believing that the provider is failing to
comply with it.

126.3

If a notice is revoked as mentioned in subsection  (2) , OFCOM may give the
provider a further notice under section 121 (1)  if they consider that it is
necessary and proportionate to do so (taking into account the matters
mentioned in section 124).

126.4

Except where a notice under section 121 (1)  is revoked as mentioned in
subsection  (2) , OFCOM must carry out a review of the provider’s compliance
with the notice—

126.4.a

in the case of a notice requiring the use of accredited technology, before the
end of the period for which the notice has effect;

126.4.b

in the case of a notice relating to the development or sourcing of technology,
before the last date by which any step specified in the notice is required to
be taken.

126.5

In the case of a notice requiring the use of accredited technology, the review
must consider—

126.5.a

the extent to which the technology specified in the notice has been used, and

126.5.b

the effectiveness of its use.

126.6

Following the review, and after consultation with the provider, OFCOM may give
the provider a further notice under section 121 (1)  if they consider that it
is necessary and proportionate to do so (taking into account the matters
mentioned in section 124).

126.7

If a further notice under section 121 (1)  is given, subsections  (3)  to  (6)
apply again.

126.8

A further notice under section 121 (1)  may impose different requirements from
an earlier notice under that provision.

126.9

Sections 122 (skilled person’s report) and 123 (warning notices) do not apply
in relation to a further notice under section 121 (1) .

##### OFCOM’s guidance about functions under this Chapter

127

127.1

OFCOM must produce guidance for providers of Part 3 services about how OFCOM
propose to exercise their functions under this Chapter.

127.2

Before producing the guidance (including revised or replacement guidance),
OFCOM must consult the Information Commissioner.

127.3

OFCOM must keep the guidance under review.

127.4

OFCOM must publish the guidance (and any revised or replacement guidance).

127.5

In exercising their functions under this Chapter, or deciding whether to
exercise them, OFCOM must have regard to the guidance for the time being
published under this section.

##### OFCOM’s annual report

128

128.1

OFCOM must produce and publish an annual report about—

128.1.a

the exercise of their functions under this Chapter, and

128.1.b

technology which meets, or is in the process of development so as to meet,
minimum standards of accuracy (see subsections  (12)  and  (13)  of section
125) for the purposes of this Chapter.

128.2

OFCOM must send a copy of the report to the Secretary of State, and the
Secretary of State must lay it before Parliament.

128.3

For further provision about reports under this section, see section 164.

##### Interpretation of this Chapter

129

In this Chapter—

      “ search content ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 (see section 57);
“ search results ” has the meaning given by section 57 (3) ;           “
terrorism content ” and “ CSEA content ” have the same meaning as in Part 3
(see section 59).

#### Enforcement powers

##### Provisional notices and confirmation decisions

###### Provisional notice of contravention

130

130.1

OFCOM may give a notice under this section (a “provisional notice of
contravention”) relating to a regulated service to the provider of the service
if they consider that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the
provider has failed, or is failing, to comply with any enforceable requirement
(see section 131) that applies in relation to the service.

130.2

OFCOM may also give a provisional notice of contravention to a person on
either of the grounds in subsection  (3) .

130.3

The grounds are that—

130.3.a

the person has been given an information notice and OFCOM consider that there
are reasonable grounds for believing that the person has failed, or is
failing, to comply with either of the duties set out in section 102 (8)
(duties in relation to information notices), or

130.3.b

the person is required by a skilled person appointed under section 104 to give
assistance to the skilled person, and OFCOM consider that there are reasonable
grounds for believing that the person has failed, or is failing, to comply
with the duty set out in subsection  (7)  of that section to give such
assistance.

130.4

A provisional notice of contravention given to a person must—

130.4.a

specify the duty or requirement with which (in OFCOM’s opinion) the person has
failed, or is failing, to comply, and

130.4.b

give OFCOM’s reasons for their opinion that the person has failed, or is
failing, to comply with it.

130.5

A provisional notice of contravention may also contain details as mentioned in
subsection  (6)  or  (7) , or both.

130.6

A provisional notice of contravention may specify steps that OFCOM consider
the person needs to take in order to—

130.6.a

comply with the duty or requirement, or

130.6.b

remedy the failure to comply with it.

130.7

A provisional notice of contravention may state that OFCOM propose to impose a
penalty on the person, and in such a case the notice must—

130.7.a

state the reasons why OFCOM propose to impose a penalty,

130.7.b

state whether OFCOM propose to impose a penalty of a single amount, a penalty
calculated by reference to a daily rate, or both penalties (see section 137
(1) ),

130.7.c

indicate the amount of a penalty that OFCOM propose to impose, including (in
relation to a penalty calculated by reference to a daily rate) the daily rate
and how the penalty would be calculated,

130.7.d

in relation to a penalty calculated by reference to a daily rate, specify or
describe the period for which OFCOM propose that the penalty should be
payable, and

130.7.e

state the reasons for proposing a penalty of that amount, including any
aggravating or mitigating factors that OFCOM propose to take into account.

130.8

A provisional notice of contravention given to a person must—

130.8.a

state that the person may make representations to OFCOM (with any supporting
evidence) about the matters contained in the notice, and

130.8.b

specify the period within which such representations may be made.

130.9

A provisional notice of contravention may be given in respect of a failure to
comply with more than one enforceable requirement.

130.10

Where a provisional notice of contravention is given in respect of a
continuing failure, the notice may be given in respect of any period during
which the failure has continued, and must specify that period.

130.11

Where a provisional notice of contravention is given to a person in respect of
a failure to comply with a duty or requirement (“the first notice”), a further
provisional notice of contravention in respect of a failure to comply with
that same duty or requirement may be given to the person only—

130.11.a

in respect of a separate instance of the failure after the first notice was
given,

130.11.b

where a period was specified in the first notice in accordance with subsection
(10) , in respect of the continuation of the failure after the end of that
period, or

130.11.c

if the first notice has been withdrawn (without a confirmation decision being
given to the person in respect of the failure).

###### Requirements enforceable by OFCOM against providers of regulated services

131

131.1

References in this Chapter to “enforceable requirements” are to—

131.1.a

the duties or requirements set out in the provisions of this Act specified in
the table in subsection  (2) , and

131.1.b

the requirements mentioned in subsection  (3) .

131.2

Here is the table—

        Provision Subject matter   Section 9 Illegal content risk assessments
Section 10 Illegal content Section 11 Children’s risk assessments Section 12
Children’s online safety Section 14 Assessments related to duty in section
15(2) Section 15 User empowerment Section 17 Content of democratic importance
Section 18 News publisher content Section 19 Journalistic content Section 20
Content reporting Section 21 Complaints procedures Section 22 Freedom of
expression and privacy Section 23 Record-keeping and review Section 26 Illegal
content risk assessments Section 27 Illegal content Section 28 Children’s risk
assessments Section 29 Children’s online safety Section 31 Content reporting
Section 32 Complaints procedures Section 33 Freedom of expression and privacy
Section 34 Record-keeping and review Section 36 Children’s access assessments
Section 38 Fraudulent advertising Section 39 Fraudulent advertising Section 64
User identity verification Section 66 Reporting CSEA content to NCA Section 71
Acting against users only in accordance with terms of service Section 72 Terms
of service Section 75 Information about use of service by deceased child users
Section 77 (3)  and  (4) Transparency reports Section 81 Provider pornographic
content Section 83 Fees: notification of OFCOM  Section 102 (8) Information
notices Section 104 (7) Assistance to skilled person Section 105 (1) Co-
operation with investigation

131.3

The requirements referred to in subsection  (1)(b)  are—

131.3.a

requirements of a notice under section 104 (5)(a)  to appoint a skilled
person;

131.3.b

requirements of a notice given by virtue of section 175 (3)  (duty to make
public statement);

131.3.c

requirements of a notice under section 175 (5)  (information in connection
with circumstances presenting a threat);

131.3.d

requirements imposed by a person acting—

131.3.d.i

in the exercise of powers conferred by paragraph  2  of Schedule 12 (entry and
inspection without warrant), or

131.3.d.ii

in the execution of a warrant issued under paragraph  5  of that Schedule.

###### Confirmation decisions

132

132.1

This section applies if—

132.1.a

OFCOM have given a provisional notice of contravention to a person in relation
to a failure to comply with a duty or requirement (or with duties or
requirements), and

132.1.b

the period allowed for representations has expired.

A duty or requirement to which the provisional notice of contravention relates
is referred to in this section as a “ notified requirement ”.

132.2

If, after considering any representations and evidence, OFCOM decide not to
give the person a notice under this section, they must inform the person of
that fact.

132.3

If OFCOM are satisfied that the person has failed, or has been failing, to
comply with a notified requirement, OFCOM may give the person a notice under
this section (a “confirmation decision”) confirming that that is OFCOM’s
opinion.

132.4

A confirmation decision and a notice under section 121 (1)  may be given in
respect of the same failure.

132.5

A confirmation decision given to a person may—

132.5.a

require the person to take steps as mentioned in section 133;

132.5.b

require the person to pay a penalty as mentioned in section 137;

132.5.c

require the person to do both those things (or neither of them).

132.6

See sections 134 and 135 for further provision which a confirmation decision
may include in cases of failure to comply with duties about risk assessments
or children’s access assessments.

###### Confirmation decisions: requirements to take steps

133

133.1

A confirmation decision may require the person to whom it is given to take
such steps as OFCOM consider appropriate (including steps relating to the use
of a system or process) for either or both of the following purposes—

133.1.a

complying with a notified requirement;

133.1.b

remedying the failure to comply with a notified requirement.

133.2

But see section 136 in relation to OFCOM’s power to include in a confirmation
decision requirements as described in subsection  (1)  relating to the use of
proactive technology.

133.3

A confirmation decision may impose requirements as described in subsection
(1)  only in relation to the design or operation of a regulated service—

133.3.a

in the United Kingdom, or

133.3.b

as it affects United Kingdom users of the service.

133.4

A confirmation decision that includes requirements as described in subsection
(1)  must—

133.4.a

specify the steps that are required,

133.4.b

give OFCOM’s reasons for their decision to impose those requirements,

133.4.c

specify which of those requirements (if any) have been designated as CSEA
requirements (see subsections  (6)  and  (7) ),

133.4.d

specify each notified requirement to which the steps relate,

133.4.e

specify the period during which the failure to comply with a notified
requirement has occurred, and whether the failure is continuing,

133.4.f

specify a reasonable period within which each of the steps specified in the
decision must be taken or, if a step requires the use of a system or process,
a reasonable period within which the system or process must begin to be used
(but see subsection  (5)  in relation to information duties),

133.4.g

(if relevant) specify the period for which a system or process must be used,

133.4.h

contain details of the rights of appeal under section 168, and

133.4.i

contain information about the consequences of not complying with the
requirements included in the decision (including information about the further
kinds of enforcement action that it would be open to OFCOM to take).

133.5

A confirmation decision that requires a person to take steps for the purpose
of complying with an information duty may require the person to take those
steps immediately.

133.6

If the condition in subsection  (7)  is met in relation to a requirement
imposed by a confirmation decision which is of a kind described in subsection
(1), OFCOM must designate the requirement as a “ CSEA requirement ” for the
purposes of section 138(3) (offence of failure to comply with confirmation
decision).

133.7

The condition referred to in subsection  (6)  is that the requirement is
imposed (whether or not exclusively) in relation to either or both of the
following—

133.7.a

a failure to comply with section 10(2)(a) or (3)(a) in respect of CSEA
content, or in respect of priority illegal content which includes CSEA
content;

133.7.b

a failure to comply with section 10(2)(b) in respect of an offence specified
in Schedule 6 (CSEA offences), or in respect of priority offences which
include such an offence.

133.8

A person to whom a confirmation decision is given has a duty to comply with
requirements included in the decision which are of a kind described in
subsection  (1) .

133.9

The duty under subsection  (8)  is enforceable in civil proceedings by OFCOM—

133.9.a

for an injunction,

133.9.b

for specific performance of a statutory duty under section 45 of the Court of
Session Act 1988, or

133.9.c

for any other appropriate remedy or relief.

133.10

In this section—

      “ CSEA content ”, “ priority illegal content ” and “ priority offence ”
have the same meaning as in Part 3 (see section 59);           “ information
duty ” means a duty set out in section 102 (8) ;           “ notified
requirement ” has the meaning given by section 132.

###### Confirmation decisions: risk assessments

134

134.1

This section applies if—

134.1.a

OFCOM are satisfied that a provider of a Part 3 service has failed to comply
with a risk assessment duty,

134.1.b

based on evidence resulting from OFCOM’s investigation into that failure,
OFCOM have identified a risk of serious harm to individuals in the United
Kingdom arising from a particular aspect of the service (“the identified
risk”), and

134.1.c

OFCOM consider that the identified risk is not effectively mitigated or
managed.

134.2

A confirmation decision given to the provider of the service—

134.2.a

if the identified risk relates to matters required to be covered by an illegal
content risk assessment, may include a determination that the duty set out in
section 10 (2) (b) or (c) or 27 (2)  (as the case may be) applies as if an
illegal content risk assessment carried out by the provider had identified
that risk;

134.2.b

if the identified risk relates to matters required to be covered by a
children’s risk assessment, may include a determination that the duty set out
in section 12 (2)(a)  or 29 (2)(a)  (as the case may be) applies as if a
children’s risk assessment carried out by the provider had identified that
risk.

134.3

A confirmation decision which includes a determination as mentioned in
subsection  (2)  must—

134.3.a

give details of the identified risk,

134.3.b

specify the duty to which the determination relates, and

134.3.c

specify the date by which measures (at the provider’s discretion) to comply
with that duty must be taken or must begin to be used.

134.4

A determination as mentioned in subsection  (2)  ceases to have effect on the
date on which the provider of the service complies with the risk assessment
duty with which the provider had previously failed to comply (and accordingly,
from that date the duty to which the determination relates applies without the
modification mentioned in that subsection).

134.5

In this section—

      “ children’s risk assessment ” has the meaning given by section 11 or 28
(as the case may be);           “ illegal content risk assessment ” has the
meaning given by section 9 or 26 (as the case may be);           “ risk
assessment duty ” means a duty set out in—         section 9,
section 11,           section 26, or           section 28.

###### Confirmation decisions: children’s access assessments

135

135.1

This section applies if OFCOM are satisfied that a provider of a Part 3
service has failed to comply with a duty set out in section 36 (duties about
children’s access assessments).

135.2

If OFCOM include in a confirmation decision a requirement to take steps
relating to the carrying out of a children’s access assessment of a service,
they must require that assessment to be completed within three months of the
date of the confirmation decision.

135.3

OFCOM may vary a confirmation decision which includes a requirement as
mentioned in subsection  (2)  to extend the deadline for completion of a
children’s access assessment.

135.4

Subsection  (5)  applies if, based on evidence that OFCOM have about a service
resulting from their investigation into compliance with a duty set out in
section 36, OFCOM consider that—

135.4.a

it is possible for children to access the service or a part of it, and

135.4.b

the child user condition is met in relation to—

135.4.b.i

the service, or

135.4.b.ii

a part of the service that it is possible for children to access.

135.5

OFCOM may include in the confirmation decision given to the provider of the
service—

135.5.a

a determination that the duties set out in sections 11 and 12, or (as the case
may be) sections 28 and 29, must be complied with—

135.5.a.i

from the date of the confirmation decision, or

135.5.a.ii

from a later date specified in that decision;

135.5.b

provision about the circumstances in which that determination may be treated
as no longer applying in relation to the service.

135.6

Subsection  (4)  is to be interpreted consistently with section 35.

135.7

In this section, “ children’s access assessment ” has the meaning given by
section 35.

###### Confirmation decisions: proactive technology

136

136.1

This section sets out what powers OFCOM have to include in a confirmation
decision a requirement to take steps to use a kind, or one of the kinds, of
proactive technology specified in the decision (a “proactive technology
requirement”).

136.2

A proactive technology requirement may be imposed in a confirmation decision
if—

136.2.a

the decision is given to the provider of an internet service within section
80(2), and

136.2.b

the decision is imposed for the purpose of complying with, or remedying the
failure to comply with, the duty set out in section 81(2) (provider
pornographic content).

136.3

The following provisions of this section set out constraints on OFCOM’s power
to include a proactive technology requirement in a confirmation decision in
any case not within subsection  (2) .

136.4

A proactive technology requirement may be imposed in a confirmation decision
only if the decision is given to the provider of a Part 3 service.

136.5

A proactive technology requirement may be imposed in a confirmation decision
only for the purpose of complying with, or remedying the failure to comply
with, any of the duties set out in—

136.5.a

section 10 (2)  or  (3)  (illegal content),

136.5.b

section 12 (2)  or  (3)  (children’s online safety),

136.5.c

section 27 (2)  or  (3)  (illegal content),

136.5.d

section 29 (2)  or  (3)  (children’s online safety), or

136.5.e

section 38 (1)  or 39 (1)  (fraudulent advertising).

136.6

Proactive technology may be required to be used on or in relation to any Part
3 service or any part of such a service, but if and to the extent that the
technology operates (or may operate) by analysing content that is user-
generated content in relation to the service, or metadata relating to such
content, the technology may not be required to be used except to analyse—

136.6.a

user-generated content communicated publicly, and

136.6.b

metadata relating to user-generated content communicated publicly.

136.7

Before imposing a proactive technology requirement in relation to a service in
a confirmation decision, OFCOM must particularly consider the matters
mentioned in subsection  (8) , so far as they are relevant.

136.8

The matters are as follows—

136.8.a

the kind of service it is;

136.8.b

the functionalities of the service;

136.8.c

the user base of the service;

136.8.d

the prevalence of relevant content on the service and the extent of its
dissemination by means of the service, or (as the case may be) the prevalence
of search content of the service that is relevant content;

136.8.e

the level of risk of harm to individuals in the United Kingdom presented by
relevant content present on the service, or (as the case may be) search
content of the service that is relevant content, and the severity of that
harm;

136.8.f

the degree of accuracy, effectiveness and lack of bias achieved by the kind of
technology specified in the decision;

136.8.g

the extent to which the use of the kind of proactive technology specified in
the decision would or might result in interference with users’ right to
freedom of expression within the law;

136.8.h

the level of risk of the use of the kind of proactive technology specified in
the decision resulting in a breach of any statutory provision or rule of law
concerning privacy that is relevant to the use or operation of the service
(including, but not limited to, any such provision or rule concerning the
processing of personal data);

136.8.i

whether the use of any less intrusive measures than the proactive technology
specified in the decision would be likely to result in compliance with, or
would be likely to effectively remedy the failure to comply with, the duty in
question.

136.9

A confirmation decision that imposes a proactive technology requirement on a
provider may also impose requirements about review of the technology by the
provider.

136.10

A confirmation decision relating to a service which requires the use of
technology of a kind mentioned in subsection  (6)  must identify the content,
or parts of the service that include content, that OFCOM consider is
communicated publicly on that service (see section 232).

136.11

In this section—

      “ content that is harmful to children ” has the same meaning as in Part
3 (see section 60);           “ fraudulent advertisement ” has the meaning
given by section 38 or 39 (depending on the kind of service in question);
“ illegal content ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 (see section 59);
“ relevant content ” means illegal content, content that is harmful to
children or content consisting of fraudulent advertisements, or any or all of
those kinds of content (depending on the duties (as mentioned in subsection
(5) ) for the purposes of which the proactive technology requirement is
imposed);           “ search content ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 (see
section 57);           “ user-generated content ” has the meaning given by
section 55 (see subsections (3) and (4) of that section).

###### Confirmation decisions: penalties

137

137.1

A confirmation decision may require the person to whom it is given to do
either or both of the following, depending on what was proposed in the
provisional notice of contravention (see paragraph 3 of Schedule 13)—

137.1.a

pay to OFCOM a penalty of a single amount in sterling determined by OFCOM (a
“single penalty”) and specified in the confirmation decision;

137.1.b

if the confirmation decision includes a requirement of the kind described in
section 133 (1)(a)  in respect of a continuous failure to comply with a
notified requirement, pay a daily rate penalty to OFCOM if that same failure
continues after the compliance date.

137.2

A “ daily rate penalty ” means a penalty of an amount in sterling determined
by OFCOM and calculated by reference to a daily rate.

137.3

A confirmation decision may impose separate single penalties for failure to
comply with separate notified requirements specified in the decision.

137.4

Where a provisional notice of contravention is given in respect of a period of
continuing failure to comply with a notified requirement, no more than one
single penalty may be imposed by a confirmation decision in respect of the
period of failure specified in the provisional notice of contravention.

137.5

A confirmation decision that imposes a penalty must—

137.5.a

give OFCOM’s reasons for their decision to impose the penalty,

137.5.b

specify each notified requirement to which the penalty relates,

137.5.c

specify the period during which the failure to comply with a notified
requirement has occurred, and whether the failure is continuing,

137.5.d

state the reasons for the amount of the penalty, including any aggravating or
mitigating factors that OFCOM have taken into account,

137.5.e

specify a reasonable period within which the penalty must be paid,

137.5.f

contain details of the rights of appeal under section 168, and

137.5.g

contain information about the consequences of not paying the penalty
(including information about the further kinds of enforcement action that it
would be open to OFCOM to take).

137.6

The period specified under subsection  (5)(e)  for the payment of a single
penalty must be at least 28 days beginning with the day on which the
confirmation decision is given.

137.7

If a confirmation decision imposes a single penalty and a daily rate penalty,
the information mentioned in subsection  (5)(a) ,  (b) ,  (d)  and  (e)  must
be given in respect of each kind of penalty.

137.8

As well as containing the information mentioned in subsection  (5) , a
confirmation decision that imposes a daily rate penalty in respect of a
continuous failure to comply with a notified requirement must—

137.8.a

state the daily rate of the penalty and how the penalty is calculated;

137.8.b

state that the person will be liable to pay the penalty if that same failure
continues after the compliance date;

137.8.c

state the date from which the penalty begins to be payable, which must not be
earlier than the day after the compliance date;

137.8.d

provide for the penalty to continue to be payable at the daily rate until—

137.8.d.i

the date on which the notified requirement is complied with,

137.8.d.ii

if the penalty is imposed in respect of a failure to comply with more than one
notified requirement, the date on which the last of those requirements is
complied with, or

137.8.d.iii

an earlier date specified in the confirmation decision.

137.9

In this section—

      “ compliance date ”, in relation to a notified requirement, means—
in a case where the confirmation decision requires steps to be taken
immediately to comply with that requirement (see section 133 (5) ), the date
of the confirmation decision;           in any other case, the last day of the
period specified in the confirmation decision in accordance with section 133
(4)(f)  for compliance with that requirement;                 “ notified
requirement ” has the meaning given by section 132.

###### Confirmation decisions: offences

138

138.1

A person to whom a confirmation decision is given commits an offence if,
without reasonable excuse, the person fails to comply with a requirement
imposed by the decision which—

138.1.a

is of a kind described in section 133(1), and

138.1.b

is imposed (whether or not exclusively) in relation to a failure to comply
with a children’s online safety duty.

138.2

A “ children’s online safety duty ” means a duty set out in—

138.2.a

section 12(3)(a),

138.2.b

section 12(3)(b),

138.2.c

section 81(2), or

138.2.d

section 81 (4) .

138.3

A person to whom a confirmation decision is given commits an offence if,
without reasonable excuse, the person fails to comply with a CSEA requirement
imposed by the decision (see section 133(6) and (7)).

138.4

A person who commits an offence under this section is liable—

138.4.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

138.4.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

138.4.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

138.4.d

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years
or a fine (or both).

##### Penalty notices etc

###### Penalty for failure to comply with confirmation decision

139

139.1

This section applies if—

139.1.a

OFCOM have given a confirmation decision to a person,

139.1.b

the decision includes requirements of a kind described in section 133 (1)
(requirements to take steps),

139.1.c

OFCOM are satisfied that the person has failed to comply with one or more of
those requirements, and

139.1.d

OFCOM have not imposed a daily rate penalty under section 137 (1)(b)  in
respect of that failure.

139.2

OFCOM may give the person a penalty notice under this section in respect of
the failure to comply with the confirmation decision, requiring the person to
pay to OFCOM a penalty of a single amount in sterling determined by OFCOM.

139.3

But OFCOM may give such a notice to the person only after—

139.3.a

notifying the person that they propose to give a penalty notice under this
section, specifying the reasons for doing so and indicating the amount of the
proposed penalty, and

139.3.b

giving the person an opportunity to make representations (with any supporting
evidence).

139.4

A penalty notice under this section must—

139.4.a

give OFCOM’s reasons for their decision to impose the penalty,

139.4.b

state the amount of the penalty,

139.4.c

state the reasons for the amount of the penalty, including any aggravating or
mitigating factors that OFCOM have taken into account,

139.4.d

specify the period within which the penalty must be paid,

139.4.e

contain details of the rights of appeal under section 168, and

139.4.f

contain information about the consequences of not paying the penalty
(including information about the further kinds of enforcement action that it
would be open to OFCOM to take).

139.5

The period specified under subsection  (4)(d)  must be at least 28 days
beginning with the day on which the penalty notice is given.

###### Penalty for failure to comply with notice under section 121

140

140.1

This section applies if—

140.1.a

OFCOM have given a notice under section 121 (1)  relating to a Part 3 service
to the provider of that service (notices to deal with terrorism content and
CSEA content), and

140.1.b

OFCOM are satisfied that the provider has failed, or is failing, to comply
with the notice.

140.2

OFCOM may give the provider a notice under this subsection stating that they
propose to impose a penalty on the provider in respect of that failure.

140.3

The provider may make representations to OFCOM (with any supporting evidence)
about the matters contained in the notice.

140.4

Subsection  (5)  applies if—

140.4.a

the period allowed for representations has expired, and

140.4.b

OFCOM are still satisfied as to the failure mentioned in subsection  (1) .

140.5

OFCOM may give the provider a penalty notice under this subsection requiring
the provider to pay to OFCOM a penalty of an amount in sterling determined by
OFCOM.

140.6

The penalty may consist of any of the following, depending on what was
specified in the notice about the proposed penalty—

140.6.a

a single amount;

140.6.b

an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate;

140.6.c

a combination of a single amount and an amount calculated by reference to a
daily rate.

140.7

See section 142 for information which must be included in notices under this
section.

140.8

Nothing in this section is to be taken to prevent OFCOM from giving the
provider a further notice under section 121 (1)  (see section 126), as well as
giving a penalty notice under subsection  (5) .

###### Non-payment of fee

141

141.1

This section applies if—

141.1.a

the provider of a regulated service is liable to pay a fee to OFCOM under
section 84 or Schedule 10 in respect of the current charging year (within the
meaning of Part 6) or a previous charging year, and

141.1.b

in OFCOM’s opinion, the provider has not paid the full amount of the fee that
the provider is liable to pay.

141.2

OFCOM may give the provider a notice under this subsection specifying—

141.2.a

the outstanding amount of the fee that OFCOM consider the provider is due to
pay to them under section 84 or Schedule 10, and

141.2.b

the period within which the provider must pay it.

141.3

A notice under subsection  (2) —

141.3.a

may be given in respect of liabilities that relate to different charging
years;

141.3.b

may also state that OFCOM propose to impose a penalty on the provider.

141.4

The provider may make representations to OFCOM (with any supporting evidence)
about the matters contained in the notice.

141.5

Subsection  (6)  applies if—

141.5.a

the notice under subsection  (2)  stated that OFCOM propose to impose a
penalty,

141.5.b

the period allowed for representations has expired, and

141.5.c

OFCOM are satisfied that an amount of the fee is still due to them.

141.6

OFCOM may give the provider a penalty notice under this subsection requiring
the provider to pay to OFCOM a penalty of an amount in sterling determined by
OFCOM.

141.7

The penalty may consist of any of the following, depending on what was
specified in the notice about the proposed penalty—

141.7.a

a single amount;

141.7.b

an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate;

141.7.c

a combination of a single amount and an amount calculated by reference to a
daily rate.

141.8

A penalty notice under subsection  (6)  may require the payment of separate
single amounts in respect of liabilities that relate to different charging
years.

141.9

See section 142 for information which must be included in notices under this
section.

141.10

Nothing in this section affects OFCOM’s power to bring proceedings (whether
before or after the imposition of a penalty by a notice under subsection  (6)
) for the recovery of the whole or part of an amount due to OFCOM under
section 84 or Schedule 10.

141.11

But OFCOM may not bring such proceedings unless a provider has first been
given a notice under subsection  (2)  specifying the amount due to OFCOM.

###### Information to be included in notices under sections 140 and 141

142

142.1

Subsection  (2)  applies in relation to—

142.1.a

a notice under section 140 (2) , and

142.1.b

a notice under section 141 (2)  stating that OFCOM propose to impose a
penalty.

142.2

Such a notice must—

142.2.a

state the reasons why OFCOM propose to impose the penalty,

142.2.b

state whether OFCOM propose that the penalty should consist of a single
amount, an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, or a combination of
the two,

142.2.c

indicate the amount of the proposed penalty, including (in relation to an
amount calculated by reference to a daily rate) the daily rate and how the
penalty would be calculated,

142.2.d

in relation to an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, specify or
describe the period for which OFCOM propose that the amount should be payable,

142.2.e

state the reasons for proposing a penalty of that amount, including any
aggravating or mitigating factors that OFCOM propose to take into account, and

142.2.f

specify the period within which representations in relation to the proposed
penalty may be made.

142.3

A penalty notice under section 140 (5)  or 141 (6)  must—

142.3.a

give OFCOM’s reasons for their decision to impose the penalty,

142.3.b

state whether the penalty consists of a single amount, an amount calculated by
reference to a daily rate, or a combination of the two, and how it is
calculated,

142.3.c

in relation to a single amount, state that amount,

142.3.d

in relation to an amount calculated by reference to a daily rate, state the
daily rate,

142.3.e

state the reasons for the amount of the penalty, including any aggravating or
mitigating factors that OFCOM have taken into account,

142.3.f

specify a reasonable period within which the penalty must be paid,

142.3.g

contain details of the rights of appeal under section 168, and

142.3.h

contain information about the consequences of not paying the penalty
(including information about the further kinds of enforcement action that it
would be open to OFCOM to take).

142.4

A penalty notice under section 141 (6)  must also specify the amount of the
fee that is (in OFCOM’s opinion) due to be paid to OFCOM.

142.5

The period specified under subsection  (3)(f) for the payment of a single
amount must be at least 28 days beginning with the day on which the penalty
notice is given.

142.6

Subsection  (7)  applies in relation to a penalty notice under section 140 (5)
or 141 (6)  that includes a requirement to pay an amount calculated by
reference to a daily rate.

142.7

Such a notice must—

142.7.a

state the date from which the amount begins to be payable, which must not be
earlier than the day after the day on which the notice is given;

142.7.b

provide for the amount to continue to be payable at the daily rate until—

142.7.b.i

(in the case of a notice under section 140 (5) ) the date on which OFCOM are
satisfied that the provider is complying with the notice under section 121 (1)
, or (in the case of a notice under section 141 (6) ) the date on which the
full amount of the fee (as specified in the penalty notice) has been paid to
OFCOM, or

142.7.b.ii

an earlier date specified in the penalty notice.

##### Amount of penalties etc

###### Amount of penalties etc

143

Schedule 13 contains provision about the amount of penalties that OFCOM may
impose under this Chapter, and makes further provision about such penalties.

##### Business disruption measures

###### Service restriction orders

144

144.1

OFCOM may apply to the court for an order under this section (a “service
restriction order”) in relation to a regulated service where they consider
that—

144.1.a

the grounds in subsection  (3)  apply in relation to the service, or

144.1.b

in the case of a Part 3 service, the grounds in subsection  (4)  apply in
relation to the service.

144.2

A service restriction order is an order imposing requirements on one or more
persons who provide an ancillary service (whether from within or outside the
United Kingdom) in relation to a regulated service (see subsection  (11) ).

144.3

The grounds mentioned in subsection  (1)(a)  are that—

144.3.a

the provider of the regulated service has failed to comply with an enforceable
requirement that applies in relation to the regulated service,

144.3.b

the failure is continuing, and

144.3.c

any of the following applies—

144.3.c.i

the provider has failed to comply with a requirement imposed by a confirmation
decision that is of a kind described in section 133 (1)  relating to the
failure;

144.3.c.ii

the provider has failed to pay a penalty imposed by a confirmation decision
relating to the failure (and the confirmation decision did not impose any
requirements of a kind described in section 133 (1) );

144.3.c.iii

the provider would be likely to fail to comply with requirements imposed by a
confirmation decision if given;

144.3.c.iv

the circumstances of the failure or the risks of harm to individuals in the
United Kingdom are such that it is appropriate to make the application without
having given a provisional notice of contravention, without having given a
confirmation decision, or (having given a confirmation decision imposing
requirements) without waiting to ascertain compliance with those requirements.

144.4

The grounds mentioned in subsection  (1)(b)  are that—

144.4.a

the provider of the Part 3 service has failed to comply with a notice under
section 121 (1)  that relates to the service (notices to deal with terrorism
content and CSEA content), and

144.4.b

the failure is continuing.

144.5

An application by OFCOM for a service restriction order must—

144.5.a

specify the regulated service in relation to which the application is made (“
the relevant service ”),

144.5.b

specify the provider of that service (“the non-compliant provider”),

144.5.c

specify the grounds on which the application is based, and contain evidence
about those grounds,

144.5.d

specify the persons on whom (in OFCOM’s opinion) the requirements of the order
should be imposed,

144.5.e

contain evidence as to why OFCOM consider that the persons mentioned in
paragraph  (d)  provide an ancillary service in relation to the relevant
service, and specify any such ancillary service provided,

144.5.f

specify the requirements which OFCOM consider that the order should impose on
such persons, and

144.5.g

in the case of an application made without notice having been given to the
non-compliant provider, or to the persons mentioned in paragraph  (d) , state
why no notice has been given.

144.6

The court may make a service restriction order imposing requirements on a
person in relation to the relevant service if the court is satisfied—

144.6.a

as to the grounds in subsection  (3)  or the grounds in subsection  (4)  (as
the case may be),

144.6.b

that the person provides an ancillary service in relation to the relevant
service,

144.6.c

that it is appropriate to make the order for the purpose of preventing harm to
individuals in the United Kingdom, and the order is proportionate to the risk
of such harm,

144.6.d

in the case of an application made on the ground in subsection  (3)(c)(iii)
or  (iv) , that it is appropriate to make the order before a provisional
notice of contravention or confirmation decision has been given, or before
compliance with requirements imposed by a confirmation decision has been
ascertained (as the case may be), and

144.6.e

if no notice of the application has been given to the non-compliant provider,
or to the persons on whom requirements are being imposed, that it is
appropriate to make the order without notice.

144.7

When considering whether to make a service restriction order in relation to
the relevant service, and when considering what provision it should contain,
the court must take into account (among other things) the rights and
obligations of all relevant parties, including those of—

144.7.a

the non-compliant provider,

144.7.b

the person or persons on whom the court is considering imposing the
requirements, and

144.7.c

United Kingdom users of the relevant service.

144.8

A service restriction order made in relation to the relevant service must—

144.8.a

identify the non-compliant provider,

144.8.b

identify the persons on whom the requirements are imposed, and any ancillary
service to which the requirements relate,

144.8.c

require such persons to take the steps specified in the order, or to put in
place arrangements, that have the effect of withdrawing the ancillary service
to the extent that it relates to the relevant service (or part of it), or
preventing the ancillary service from promoting or displaying content that
relates to the relevant service (or part of it) in any way,

144.8.d

specify the date by which the requirements in the order must be complied with,
and

144.8.e

specify the date on which the order expires, or the period for which the order
has effect.

144.9

The steps that may be specified or arrangements that may be required to be put
in place—

144.9.a

include steps or arrangements that will or may require the termination of an
agreement (whether or not made before the coming into force of this section),
or the prohibition of the performance of such an agreement, and

144.9.b

are limited, so far as that is possible, to steps or arrangements relating to
the operation of the relevant service as it affects United Kingdom users.

144.10

OFCOM must inform the Secretary of State as soon as reasonably practicable
after a service restriction order has been made.

144.11

For the purposes of this section, a service is an “ ancillary service ” in
relation to a regulated service if the service facilitates the provision of
the regulated service (or part of it), whether directly or indirectly, or
displays or promotes content relating to the regulated service (or to part of
it).

144.12

Examples of ancillary services include—

144.12.a

services, provided (directly or indirectly) in the course of a business, which
enable funds to be transferred in relation to a regulated service,

144.12.b

search engines which generate search results displaying or promoting content
relating to a regulated service,

144.12.c

user-to-user services which make content relating to a regulated service
available to users, and

144.12.d

services which use technology to facilitate the display of advertising on a
regulated service (for example, an ad server or an ad network).

144.13

In this section “ the court ” means—

144.13.a

in England and Wales, the High Court or the county court,

144.13.b

in Scotland, the Court of Session or a sheriff, and

144.13.c

in Northern Ireland, the High Court or a county court.

###### Interim service restriction orders

145

145.1

OFCOM may apply to the court for an interim order under this section (an
“interim service restriction order”) in relation to a regulated service where
they consider that—

145.1.a

the grounds in subsection  (3)  apply in relation to the service, or

145.1.b

in the case of a Part 3 service, the grounds in subsection  (4)  apply in
relation to the service.

145.2

An interim service restriction order is an interim order imposing requirements
on one or more persons who provide an ancillary service (whether from within
or outside the United Kingdom) in relation to a regulated service (see
subsection  (9) ).

145.3

The grounds mentioned in subsection  (1)(a)  are that—

145.3.a

it is likely that the provider of the regulated service is failing to comply
with an enforceable requirement that applies in relation to the regulated
service, and

145.3.b

the level of risk of harm to individuals in the United Kingdom relating to the
likely failure, and the nature and severity of that harm, are such that it
would not be appropriate to wait to establish the failure before applying for
the order.

145.4

The grounds mentioned in subsection  (1)(b)  are that—

145.4.a

it is likely that the provider of the Part 3 service is failing to comply with
a notice under section 121 (1)  that relates to the service (notices to deal
with terrorism content and CSEA content), and

145.4.b

the level of risk of harm to individuals in the United Kingdom relating to the
likely failure, and the nature and severity of that harm, are such that it
would not be appropriate to wait to establish the failure before applying for
the order.

145.5

An application by OFCOM for an interim service restriction order must—

145.5.a

specify the regulated service in relation to which the application is made (“
the relevant service ”),

145.5.b

specify the provider of that service (“the non-compliant provider”),

145.5.c

specify the grounds on which the application is based, and contain evidence
about those grounds,

145.5.d

specify the persons on whom (in OFCOM’s opinion) the requirements of the order
should be imposed,

145.5.e

contain evidence as to why OFCOM consider that the persons mentioned in
paragraph  (d)  provide an ancillary service in relation to the relevant
service, and specify any such ancillary service provided,

145.5.f

specify the requirements which OFCOM consider that the order should impose on
such persons, and

145.5.g

in the case of an application made without notice having been given to the
non-compliant provider, or to the persons mentioned in paragraph  (d) , state
why no notice has been given.

145.6

The court may make an interim service restriction order imposing requirements
on a person in relation to the relevant service if the court is satisfied—

145.6.a

as to the ground in subsection  (3) (a)  or the ground in subsection  (4) (a)
(as the case may be),

145.6.b

that the person provides an ancillary service in relation to the relevant
service,

145.6.c

that there are prima facie grounds to suggest that an application for a
service restriction order under section 144 would be successful,

145.6.d

that the level of risk of harm to individuals in the United Kingdom relating
to the likely failure mentioned in subsection  (3)(a)  or  (4)(a)  (whichever
applies), and the nature and severity of that harm, are such that it is not
appropriate to wait for the failure to be established before making the order,
and

145.6.e

if no notice of the application has been given to the non-compliant provider,
or to the persons on whom requirements are being imposed, that it is
appropriate to make the order without notice.

145.7

An interim service restriction order ceases to have effect on the earlier of—

145.7.a

the date specified in the order, or the date on which the period specified in
the order expires (as the case may be), and

145.7.b

the date on which the court makes a service restriction order under section
144 in relation to the relevant service that imposes requirements on the same
persons on whom requirements are imposed by the interim order, or dismisses
the application for such an order.

145.8

Subsections  (7)  to  (10)  of section 144 apply in relation to an interim
service restriction order under this section as they apply in relation to a
service restriction order under that section.

145.9

In this section, “ ancillary service ” and “ the court ” have the same meaning
as in section 144 (see subsections  (11) ,  (12)  and  (13)  of that section).

###### Access restriction orders

146

146.1

OFCOM may apply to the court for an order under this section (an “access
restriction order”) in relation to a regulated service where they consider
that—

146.1.a

the grounds in section 144 (3)  or  (4)  apply in relation to the service, and

146.1.b

either—

146.1.b.i

a service restriction order under section 144 or an interim service
restriction order under section 145 has been made in relation to the failure,
and it was not sufficient to prevent significant harm arising to individuals
in the United Kingdom as a result of the failure, or

146.1.b.ii

the likely consequences of the failure are such that if a service restriction
order or an interim service restriction order were to be made, it would be
unlikely to be sufficient to prevent significant harm arising to individuals
in the United Kingdom as a result of the failure,

and in this paragraph, “ the failure ” means the failure mentioned in section
144 (3)(a)  or  (4)(a)  (as the case may be).

146.2

An access restriction order is an order imposing requirements on one or more
persons who provide an access facility (whether from within or outside the
United Kingdom) in relation to a regulated service (see subsection  (10) ).

146.3

An application by OFCOM for an access restriction order must—

146.3.a

specify the regulated service in relation to which the application is made (“
the relevant service ”),

146.3.b

specify the provider of that service (“the non-compliant provider”),

146.3.c

specify the grounds on which the application is based, and contain evidence
about those grounds,

146.3.d

specify the persons on whom (in OFCOM’s opinion) the requirements of the order
should be imposed,

146.3.e

contain evidence as to why OFCOM consider that the persons mentioned in
paragraph  (d)  provide an access facility in relation to the relevant
service, and specify any such access facility provided,

146.3.f

specify the requirements which OFCOM consider that the order should impose on
such persons, and

146.3.g

in the case of an application made without notice having been given to the
non-compliant provider, or to the persons mentioned in paragraph  (d) , state
why no notice has been given.

146.4

The court may make an access restriction order imposing requirements on a
person in relation to the relevant service if the court is satisfied—

146.4.a

as to the grounds in subsection  (1) ,

146.4.b

that the person provides an access facility in relation to the relevant
service,

146.4.c

that it is appropriate to make the order for the purpose of preventing
significant harm to individuals in the United Kingdom, and the order is
proportionate to the risk of such harm,

146.4.d

in the case of an application made on the ground in subsection  (3)(c)(iii)
or  (iv)  of section 144 (by virtue of subsection (1)(a)), that it is
appropriate to make the order before a provisional notice of contravention or
confirmation decision has been given, or before compliance with requirements
imposed by a confirmation decision has been ascertained (as the case may be),
and

146.4.e

if no notice of the application has been given to the non-compliant provider,
or to the persons on whom requirements are being imposed, that it is
appropriate to make the order without notice.

146.5

When considering whether to make an access restriction order in relation to
the relevant service, and when considering what provision it should contain,
the court must take into account (among other things) the rights and
obligations of all relevant parties, including those of—

146.5.a

the non-compliant provider,

146.5.b

the person or persons on whom the court is considering imposing the
requirements, and

146.5.c

United Kingdom users of the relevant service.

146.6

An access restriction order made in relation to the relevant service must—

146.6.a

identify the non-compliant provider,

146.6.b

identify the persons on whom the requirements are imposed, and any access
facility to which the requirements relate,

146.6.c

require such persons to take the steps specified in the order, or to put in
place arrangements, to withdraw, adapt or manipulate the access facility in
order to impede users’ access (by means of that facility) to the relevant
service (or to part of it),

146.6.d

specify the date by which the requirements in the order must be complied with,
and

146.6.e

specify the date on which the order expires, or the period for which the order
has effect.

146.7

The steps that may be specified or arrangements that may be required to be put
in place—

146.7.a

include steps or arrangements that will or may require the termination of an
agreement (whether or not made before the coming into force of this section),
or the prohibition of the performance of such an agreement,

146.7.b

are limited, so far as that is possible, to steps or arrangements that impede
the access of United Kingdom users, and

146.7.c

are limited, so far as that is possible, to steps or arrangements that do not
affect such users’ ability to access any other internet services.

146.8

OFCOM must inform the Secretary of State as soon as reasonably practicable
after an access restriction order has been made.

146.9

Where a person who provides an access facility takes steps or puts in place
arrangements required by an access restriction order, OFCOM may, by notice,
require that person to (where possible) notify persons in the United Kingdom
who attempt to access the relevant service via that facility of the access
restriction order (and where a confirmation decision has been given to the
non-compliant provider, the notification must refer to that decision).

146.10

For the purposes of this section, a facility is an “ access facility ” in
relation to a regulated service if the person who provides the facility is
able to withdraw, adapt or manipulate it in such a way as to impede access (by
means of that facility) to the regulated service (or to part of it) by United
Kingdom users of that service.

146.11

Examples of access facilities include—

146.11.a

internet access services by means of which a regulated service is made
available, and

146.11.b

app stores through which a mobile app for a regulated service may be
downloaded or otherwise accessed.

146.12

In this section—

      “ the court ” means—         in England and Wales, the High Court or the
county court,           in Scotland, the Court of Session or a sheriff, and
in Northern Ireland, the High Court or a county court;                 “
facility ” means any kind of service, infrastructure or apparatus enabling
users of a regulated service to access the regulated service;           “
internet access service ” means a service that provides access to virtually
all (or just some) of the end points of the internet.

###### Interim access restriction orders

147

147.1

OFCOM may apply to the court for an interim order under this section (an
“interim access restriction order”) in relation to a regulated service where
they consider that—

147.1.a

the grounds in section 145 (3)  or  (4)  apply in relation to the service, and

147.1.b

either—

147.1.b.i

a service restriction order under section 144 or an interim service
restriction order under section 145 has been made in relation to the likely
failure, and it was not sufficient to prevent significant harm arising to
individuals in the United Kingdom as a result of the failure, or

147.1.b.ii

the likely consequences of such a failure would be such that if a service
restriction order or an interim service restriction order were to be made, it
would be unlikely to be sufficient to prevent significant harm arising to
individuals in the United Kingdom as a result of the failure,

and in this section, “ the likely failure ” means the likely failure mentioned
in section 145 (3)(a)  or  (4)(a)  (as the case may be).

147.2

An interim access restriction order is an interim order imposing requirements
on one or more persons who provide an access facility (whether from within or
outside the United Kingdom) in relation to a regulated service (see subsection
(8) ).

147.3

An application by OFCOM for an interim access restriction order must—

147.3.a

specify the regulated service in relation to which the application is made (“
the relevant service ”),

147.3.b

specify the provider of that service (“the non-compliant provider”),

147.3.c

specify the grounds on which the application is based, and contain evidence
about those grounds,

147.3.d

specify the persons on whom (in OFCOM’s opinion) the requirements of the order
should be imposed,

147.3.e

contain evidence as to why OFCOM consider that the persons mentioned in
paragraph  (d)  provide an access facility in relation to the relevant
service, and specify any such access facility provided,

147.3.f

specify the requirements which OFCOM consider that the order should impose on
such persons, and

147.3.g

in the case of an application made without notice having been given to the
non-compliant provider, or to the persons mentioned in paragraph  (d) , state
why no notice has been given.

147.4

The court may make an interim access restriction order imposing requirements
on a person in relation to the relevant service if the court is satisfied—

147.4.a

that the ground in section 145 (3)(a)  or  (4)(a)  (as the case may be)
applies in relation to the service,

147.4.b

as to the ground in subsection  (1)(b)(i)  or  (ii) ,

147.4.c

that the person provides an access facility in relation to the relevant
service,

147.4.d

that there are prima facie grounds to suggest that an application for an
access restriction order under section 146 would be successful,

147.4.e

that the level of risk of harm to individuals in the United Kingdom relating
to the likely failure, and the nature and severity of that harm, are such that
it is not appropriate to wait for the failure to be established before making
the order, and

147.4.f

if no notice of the application has been given to the non-compliant provider,
or to the persons on whom requirements are being imposed, that it is
appropriate to make the order without notice.

147.5

An interim access restriction order ceases to have effect on the earlier of—

147.5.a

the date specified in the order, or the date on which the period specified in
the order expires (as the case may be), and

147.5.b

the date on which the court makes an access restriction order under section
146 in relation to the relevant service that imposes requirements on the same
persons on whom requirements are imposed by the interim order, or dismisses an
application for such an order.

147.6

Subsections  (5)  to  (8)  of section 146 apply in relation to an interim
access restriction order under this section as they apply in relation to an
access restriction order under that section.

147.7

Where a person who provides an access facility takes steps or puts in place
arrangements required by an interim access restriction order, OFCOM may, by
notice, require that person to (where possible) notify persons in the United
Kingdom who attempt to access the relevant service via that facility of the
interim access restriction order.

147.8

In this section, “ access facility ” and “ the court ” have the same meaning
as in section 146 (see subsections  (10) ,  (11)  and  (12)  of that section).

###### Interaction with other action by OFCOM

148

148.1

Where OFCOM apply for a business disruption order in respect of a failure by a
provider of a regulated service to comply with an enforceable requirement,
nothing in sections 144 to 147 is to be taken to prevent OFCOM also giving the
provider—

148.1.a

a confirmation decision in respect of the failure, or

148.1.b

a penalty notice under section 139 in relation to a confirmation decision in
respect of the failure.

148.2

Where OFCOM apply for a business disruption order in respect of a failure by a
provider of a Part 3 service to comply with a notice under section 121 (1)
(notices to deal with terrorism content and CSEA content), nothing in sections
144 to 147 is to be taken to prevent OFCOM also giving the provider either or
both of the following—

148.2.a

a further notice under section 121 (1)  (see section 126);

148.2.b

a penalty notice under section 140 (5) .

148.3

In this section, a “ business disruption order ” means—

148.3.a

a service restriction order under section 144,

148.3.b

an interim service restriction order under section 145,

148.3.c

an access restriction order under section 146, or

148.3.d

an interim access restriction order under section 147.

##### Publication of enforcement action

###### Publication by OFCOM of details of enforcement action

149

149.1

Subsections  (2)  and  (3)  apply where OFCOM have given a person (and not
withdrawn) any of the following—

149.1.a

a confirmation decision;

149.1.b

a penalty notice under section 139;

149.1.c

a penalty notice under section 140 (5) ;

149.1.d

a penalty notice under section 141 (6) .

149.2

OFCOM must publish details identifying the person and describing—

149.2.a

the failure (or failures) to which the decision or notice relates, and

149.2.b

OFCOM’s response.

149.3

But OFCOM may not publish anything that, in OFCOM’s opinion—

149.3.a

is confidential in accordance with subsections  (4)  and  (5) , or

149.3.b

is otherwise not appropriate for publication.

149.4

A matter is confidential under this subsection if—

149.4.a

it relates specifically to the affairs of a particular body, and

149.4.b

publication of that matter would or might, in OFCOM’s opinion, seriously and
prejudicially affect the interests of that body.

149.5

A matter is confidential under this subsection if—

149.5.a

it relates to the private affairs of an individual, and

149.5.b

publication of that matter would or might, in OFCOM’s opinion, seriously and
prejudicially affect the interests of that individual.

149.6

Where OFCOM have given a person a provisional notice of contravention but have
not given the person a confirmation decision, OFCOM may publish details
identifying the person and describing the reasons for the provisional notice.

149.7

OFCOM must notify the person concerned that information has been published
under this section.

###### Publication by providers of details of enforcement action

150

150.1

This section applies where—

150.1.a

OFCOM have given a person (and not withdrawn) any of the following—

150.1.a.i

a confirmation decision;

150.1.a.ii

a penalty notice under section 139;

150.1.a.iii

a penalty notice under section 140(5);

150.1.a.iv

a penalty notice under section 141(6), and

150.1.b

the appeal period in relation to the decision or notice has ended.

150.2

OFCOM may give to the person a notice (a “publication notice”) requiring the
person to—

150.2.a

publish details describing—

150.2.a.i

the failure (or failures) to which the decision or notice mentioned in
subsection  (1)(a)  relates, and

150.2.a.ii

OFCOM’s response, or

150.2.b

otherwise notify users of the service to which the decision or notice
mentioned in subsection  (1)(a)  relates of those details.

150.3

A publication notice may require a person to publish details under subsection
(2)(a)  or give notification of details under subsection  (2)(b)  or both.

150.4

A publication notice must—

150.4.a

specify the decision or notice mentioned in subsection  (1)(a)  to which it
relates,

150.4.b

specify or describe the details that must be published or notified,

150.4.c

specify the form and manner in which the details must be published or
notified,

150.4.d

specify a date by which the details must be published or notified, and

150.4.e

contain information about the consequences of not complying with the notice.

150.5

Where a publication notice requires a person to publish details under
subsection  (2)(a)  the notice may also specify a period during which
publication in the specified form and manner must continue.

150.6

Where a publication notice requires a person to give notification of details
under subsection  (2)(b)  the notice may only require that notification to be
given to United Kingdom users of the service (see section 227).

150.7

A publication notice may not require a person to publish or give notification
of anything that, in OFCOM’s opinion—

150.7.a

is confidential in accordance with subsections  (8)  and  (9) , or

150.7.b

is otherwise not appropriate for publication or notification.

150.8

A matter is confidential under this subsection if—

150.8.a

it relates specifically to the affairs of a particular body, and

150.8.b

publication or notification of that matter would or might, in OFCOM’s opinion,
seriously and prejudicially affect the interests of that body.

150.9

A matter is confidential under this subsection if—

150.9.a

it relates to the private affairs of an individual, and

150.9.b

publication or notification of that matter would or might, in OFCOM’s opinion,
seriously and prejudicially affect the interests of that individual.

150.10

A person to whom a publication notice is given has a duty to comply with it.

150.11

The duty under subsection  (10)  is enforceable in civil proceedings by OFCOM—

150.11.a

for an injunction,

150.11.b

for specific performance of a statutory duty under section 45 of the Court of
Session Act 1988, or

150.11.c

for any other appropriate remedy or relief.

150.12

For the purposes of subsection  (1)(b)  “ the appeal period ”, in relation to
a decision or notice mentioned in subsection  (1)(a) , means—

150.12.a

the period during which any appeal relating to the decision or notice may be
made, or

150.12.b

where such an appeal has been made, the period ending with the determination
or withdrawal of that appeal.

##### Guidance

###### OFCOM’s guidance about enforcement action

151

151.1

OFCOM must produce guidance for providers of regulated services about how
OFCOM propose to exercise their functions under this Chapter.

151.2

The guidance must, in particular, give information about the factors that
OFCOM would consider it appropriate to take into account when taking, or
considering taking, enforcement action relating to a person’s failure to
comply with different kinds of enforceable requirements.

151.3

In relation to any enforcement action by OFCOM which relates to a failure by a
provider of a regulated service to comply with a relevant duty, the guidance
must include provision explaining how OFCOM will take into account the impact
(or possible impact) of such a failure on children.

151.4

Before producing the guidance (including revised or replacement guidance),
OFCOM must consult—

151.4.a

the Secretary of State,

151.4.b

the Information Commissioner, and

151.4.c

such other persons as OFCOM consider appropriate.

151.5

OFCOM must publish the guidance (and any revised or replacement guidance).

151.6

Guidelines prepared by OFCOM under section 392 of the Communications Act
(amount of penalties) may, so far as relating to penalties imposed under this
Chapter, be included in the same document as guidance under this section.

151.7

In exercising their functions under this Chapter, or deciding whether to
exercise them, OFCOM must have regard to the guidance for the time being
published under this section.

151.8

In this section, a “ relevant duty ” means—

151.8.a

a duty set out in section 10 or 27 (illegal content),

151.8.b

a duty set out in section 12 or 29 (children’s online safety), or

151.8.c

a duty set out in section 81 (2)  (children’s access to provider pornographic
content).

#### Committees, research and reports

##### Advisory committee on disinformation and misinformation

152

152.1

OFCOM must, in accordance with the following provisions of this section,
exercise their powers under paragraph 14 of the Schedule to the Office of
Communications Act 2002 (committees of OFCOM) to establish and maintain a
committee to provide the advice specified in this section.

152.2

The committee is to consist of—

152.2.a

a chairman appointed by OFCOM, and

152.2.b

such number of other members appointed by OFCOM as OFCOM consider appropriate.

152.3

In appointing persons to be members of the committee, OFCOM must have regard
to the desirability of ensuring that the members of the committee include—

152.3.a

persons representing the interests of United Kingdom users of regulated
services,

152.3.b

persons representing providers of regulated services, and

152.3.c

persons with expertise in the prevention and handling of disinformation and
misinformation online.

152.4

The function of the committee is to provide advice to OFCOM (including other
committees established by OFCOM) about—

152.4.a

how providers of regulated services should deal with disinformation and
misinformation on such services,

152.4.b

OFCOM’s exercise of the power conferred by section 77 to require information
about a matter listed in Part 1 or 2 of Schedule 8, so far as relating to
disinformation and misinformation, and

152.4.c

OFCOM’s exercise of their functions under section 11 of the Communications Act
(duties to promote media literacy) in relation to countering disinformation
and misinformation on regulated services.

152.5

The committee must publish a report within the period of 18 months after being
established, and after that must publish periodic reports.

##### Functions of the Content Board

153

153.1

Section 13 of the Communications Act (functions of the Content Board) is
amended as follows.

153.2

At the beginning of subsection (2), insert  “Subject to subsection (3A),” .

153.3

After subsection (3) insert—

153.3.3A

OFCOM may, but need not, confer on the Content Board functions in relation to
matters that concern the nature or kind of online content in relation to which
OFCOM have functions under the Online Safety Act 2023 (see Parts 3 and 5 of
that Act).

153.4

After subsection (7) insert—

153.4.8

In this section references to “matters mentioned in subsection (2)” do not
include references to the matters mentioned in subsection (3A).

##### Research about users’ experiences of regulated services

154

154.1

Section 14 of the Communications Act (consumer research) is amended as
follows.

154.2

After subsection (6A) insert—

154.2.6B

OFCOM must make arrangements for ascertaining—

154.2.6B.a

the state of public opinion from time to time concerning providers of
regulated services and their manner of operating their services;

154.2.6B.b

the experiences of United Kingdom users of regulated services in relation to
their use of such services;

154.2.6B.c

the experiences of United Kingdom users of regulated user-to-user services and
regulated search services in relation to the handling of complaints made by
them to providers of such services; and

154.2.6B.d

the interests and experiences of United Kingdom users of regulated services in
relation to matters that are incidental to or otherwise connected with their
experiences of using such services.

154.2.6C

OFCOM’s report under paragraph 12 of the Schedule to the Office of
Communications Act 2002 for each financial year must contain a statement by
OFCOM about the research that has been carried out in that year under
subsection (6B).

154.3

After subsection (8) insert—

154.3.8A

In subsection (6B) the following terms have the same meaning as in the Online
Safety Act 2023—

      “ provider ” (see section 226 of that Act);           “regulated
service”, “regulated user-to-user service” and “ regulated search service ”
(see section 4 of that Act);           “ United Kingdom user ” (see section
227 of that Act).

##### Consumer consultation

155

155.1

Section 16 of the Communications Act (consumer consultation) is amended as
follows.

155.2

In subsection (4), after paragraph (d) insert—

155.2.da

regulated services;

.

155.3

After subsection (5) insert—

155.3.5A

As regards OFCOM’s functions under the Online Safety Act 2023 in relation to
regulated services—

155.3.5A.a

the reference in subsection (5) to “the contents” of a thing includes a
reference to specific pieces of online content, but

155.3.5A.b

subsection (5) is not to be read as preventing the Consumer Panel from being
able to give advice about any matter that more generally concerns—

155.3.5A.b.i

different kinds of online content in relation to which OFCOM have functions
under that Act (see Parts 3 and 5 of that Act), and

155.3.5A.b.ii

the impact that different kinds of such content may have on United Kingdom
users of regulated services.

155.4

After subsection (12) insert—

155.4.12A

OFCOM’s report under paragraph 12 of the Schedule to the Office of
Communications Act 2002 for each financial year must contain a statement by
OFCOM about the arrangements for consultation that have been made in that year
under this section, so far as the arrangements relate to regulated services.

155.5

In subsection (13), in the definition of “domestic and small business
consumer”, in paragraph (b)(i), after “available” insert  “or a provider of a
regulated service” .

155.6

After subsection (13) insert—

155.6.14

In this section the following terms have the same meaning as in the Online
Safety Act 2023—

      “ provider ”, in relation to a regulated service (see section 226 of
that Act);           “ regulated service ” (see section 4 of that Act);
“ United Kingdom user ” (see section 227 of that Act).

##### OFCOM’s statement about freedom of expression and privacy

156

OFCOM’s report under paragraph 12 of the Schedule to the Office of
Communications Act 2002 for each financial year must contain a statement by
OFCOM about the steps they have taken, and the processes they operate, to
ensure that their online safety functions have been exercised in that year
compatibly with Articles 8 and 10 of the Convention (so far as relevant).

##### OFCOM’s reports about use of age assurance

157

157.1

OFCOM must produce and publish a report assessing—

157.1.a

how providers of regulated services have used age assurance for the purpose of
compliance with their duties set out in this Act,

157.1.b

how effective the use of age assurance has been for that purpose, and

157.1.c

whether there are factors that have prevented or hindered the effective use of
age assurance, or a particular kind of age assurance, for that purpose,

(and in this section, references to a report are to a report described in this
subsection).

157.2

A report must, in particular, consider whether the following have prevented or
hindered the effective use of age assurance—

157.2.a

the costs to providers of using it, and

157.2.b

the need to protect users from a breach of any statutory provision or rule of
law concerning privacy that is relevant to the use or operation of a regulated
service (including, but not limited to, any such provision or rule concerning
the processing of personal data).

157.3

Unless the Secretary of State requires the production of a further report (see
subsection  (6) ), the requirement in subsection  (1)  is met by producing and
publishing one report within the period of 18 months beginning with the day on
which sections 12 and 81(2) come into force (or if those provisions come into
force on different days, the period of 18 months beginning with the later of
those days).

157.4

In preparing a report, OFCOM must consult—

157.4.a

the Information Commissioner, and

157.4.b

such other persons as OFCOM consider appropriate.

157.5

OFCOM must send a copy of a report to the Secretary of State, and the
Secretary of State must lay it before Parliament.

157.6

The Secretary of State may require OFCOM to produce and publish a further
report in response to—

157.6.a

the development of age assurance technology, or

157.6.b

evidence of the reduced effectiveness of such technology.

157.7

But such a requirement may not be imposed—

157.7.a

within the period of three years beginning with the date on which the first
report is published, or

157.7.b

more frequently than once every three years.

157.8

For further provision about reports under this section, see section 164.

157.9

In this section “ age assurance ” means age verification or age estimation.

##### OFCOM’s reports about news publisher content and journalistic content

158

158.1

OFCOM must produce and publish a report assessing the impact of the regulatory
framework provided for in this Act on the availability and treatment of news
publisher content and journalistic content on Category 1 services (and in this
section, references to a report are to a report described in this subsection).

158.2

Unless the Secretary of State requires the production of a further report (see
subsection  (6) ), the requirement in subsection  (1)  is met by producing and
publishing one report within the period of two years beginning with the day on
which sections 18 and 19 come into force (or if those sections come into force
on different days, the period of two years beginning with the later of those
days).

158.3

A report must, in particular, consider how effective the duties to protect
such content set out in sections 18 and 19 are at protecting it.

158.4

In preparing a report, OFCOM must consult—

158.4.a

persons who represent recognised news publishers,

158.4.b

persons who appear to OFCOM to represent creators of journalistic content,

158.4.c

persons who appear to OFCOM to represent providers of Category 1 services, and

158.4.d

such other persons as OFCOM consider appropriate.

158.5

OFCOM must send a copy of a report to the Secretary of State, and the
Secretary of State must lay it before Parliament.

158.6

The Secretary of State may require OFCOM to produce and publish a further
report if the Secretary of State considers that the regulatory framework
provided for in this Act is, or may be, having a detrimental effect on the
availability and treatment of news publisher content or journalistic content
on Category 1 services.

158.7

But such a requirement may not be imposed—

158.7.a

within the period of three years beginning with the date on which the first
report is published, or

158.7.b

more frequently than once every three years.

158.8

For further provision about reports under this section, see section 164.

158.9

In this section—

      “ journalistic content ” has the meaning given by section 19;
“ news publisher content ” has the meaning given by section 55;           “
recognised news publisher ” has the meaning given by section 56.

158.10

For the meaning of “Category 1 service”, see section 95 (register of
categories of services).

##### OFCOM’s transparency reports

159

159.1

OFCOM must produce transparency reports based on information contained in the
transparency reports produced by providers of Part 3 services under section
77.

159.2

OFCOM’s transparency reports must contain—

159.2.a

a summary of conclusions drawn from the transparency reports produced under
section 77 regarding patterns or trends which OFCOM have identified in such
reports,

159.2.b

a summary of measures mentioned in such transparency reports which OFCOM
consider to be good industry practice, and

159.2.c

any other information from such transparency reports which OFCOM consider it
appropriate to include.

159.3

OFCOM’s first transparency report must be published by the end of the period
of one year beginning with—

159.3.a

the day on which the first report under section 77 is published by a provider
of a Part 3 service (see subsection  (3)(d)  of that section), or

159.3.b

if later, the earliest date specified by OFCOM for submission of a report
under section 77 in a notice given to a provider (see subsection  (3)(c)  of
that section).

159.4

OFCOM must publish a transparency report at least once a year after the
publication of their first transparency report.

159.5

For further provision about reports under this section, see section 164.

##### OFCOM’s report about reporting and complaints procedures

160

160.1

OFCOM must produce a report assessing the measures taken or in use by
providers of Part 3 services to enable users and others to—

160.1.a

report particular kinds of content present on such services, and

160.1.b

make complaints to providers of such services.

160.2

OFCOM’s report must take into account the experiences of users and others in
reporting content and making complaints to providers of Part 3 services,
including—

160.2.a

how clear the procedures are for reporting content and making complaints,

160.2.b

how easy it is to do those things, and

160.2.c

whether providers are taking appropriate and timely action in response to
reports and complaints that are made.

160.3

The report must include advice from OFCOM about whether they consider that the
Secretary of State should make regulations under section 217 (duty about
alternative dispute resolution procedure).

160.4

In the report, OFCOM may make recommendations that they consider would improve
the experiences of users and others in reporting content or making complaints
to providers of Part 3 services, or would deliver better outcomes in relation
to reports or complaints that are made.

160.5

In preparing the report under this section, OFCOM must consult—

160.5.a

the Secretary of State,

160.5.b

persons who appear to OFCOM to represent the interests of United Kingdom users
of Part 3 services,

160.5.c

persons who appear to OFCOM to represent the interests of children (generally
or with particular reference to online safety matters),

160.5.d

the Information Commissioner, and

160.5.e

such other persons as OFCOM consider appropriate.

160.6

The report may draw on OFCOM’s research under section 14 of the Communications
Act (see subsection (6B) of that section).

160.7

The report is not required to address any matters which are the subject of a
report by OFCOM under section 158 (report about the availability and treatment
of news publisher content and journalistic content).

160.8

OFCOM must publish the report within the period of two years beginning with
the day on which this section comes into force.

160.9

OFCOM must send a copy of the report to the Secretary of State, and the
Secretary of State must lay it before Parliament.

160.10

The Secretary of State must publish a statement responding to the report
within the period of three months beginning with the day on which the report
is published, and the statement must include a response to OFCOM’s advice
about whether to make regulations under section 217.

160.11

The statement must be published in such manner as the Secretary of State
considers appropriate for bringing it to the attention of persons who may be
affected by it.

160.12

For further provision about the report under this section, see section 164.

160.13

References in this section to “users and others” are to United Kingdom users
and individuals in the United Kingdom.

##### OFCOM’s report about use of app stores by children

161

161.1

OFCOM must produce a report about the use of app stores by children.

161.2

In particular, the report must—

161.2.a

assess what role app stores play in children encountering content that is
harmful to children, search content that is harmful to children or regulated
provider pornographic content by means of regulated apps which the app stores
make available,

161.2.b

assess the extent to which age assurance is currently used by providers of app
stores, and how effective it is, and

161.2.c

explore whether children’s online safety would be better protected by the
greater use of age assurance or particular kinds of age assurance by such
providers, or by other measures.

161.3

OFCOM must publish the report during the period beginning two years, and
ending three years, after the day on which sections 12 and 29 come into force
(or if those sections come into force on different days, the later of those
days).

161.4

For further provision about the report under this section, see section 164.

161.5

In this section—

      “ age assurance ” means age verification or age estimation;           “
app ” includes an app for use on any kind of device, and “app store” is to be
read accordingly;           “ content that is harmful to children ” has the
same meaning as in Part 3 (see section 60);           “ regulated app ” means
an app for a regulated service;           “ regulated provider pornographic
content ” has the same meaning as in Part 5 (see section 79);           “
search content ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 (see section 57).

161.6

In this section references to children are to children in the United Kingdom.

##### OFCOM’s report about researchers’ access to information

162

162.1

OFCOM must produce a report—

162.1.a

describing how, and to what extent, persons carrying out independent research
into online safety matters are currently able to obtain information from
providers of regulated services to inform their research,

162.1.b

exploring the legal and other issues which currently constrain the sharing of
information for such purposes, and

162.1.c

assessing the extent to which greater access to information for such purposes
might be achieved.

162.2

For the purposes of this section a person carries out “independent research”
if the person carries out research on behalf of a person other than a provider
of a regulated service.

162.3

In preparing the report, OFCOM must consult—

162.3.a

the Information Commissioner,

162.3.b

the Centre for Data Ethics and Innovation,

162.3.c

United Kingdom Research and Innovation,

162.3.d

persons who appear to OFCOM to represent providers of regulated services, and

162.3.e

such other persons as OFCOM consider appropriate.

162.4

OFCOM must publish the report within the period of 18 months beginning with
the day on which this section comes into force.

162.5

OFCOM must send a copy of the report to the Secretary of State, and the
Secretary of State must lay it before Parliament.

162.6

For further provision about the report under this section, see section 164.

162.7

OFCOM must produce guidance about the matters dealt with by the report for
providers of regulated services and persons carrying out independent research
into online safety matters.

162.8

Before producing the guidance (including revised guidance) OFCOM must consult
the persons mentioned in subsection  (3) .

162.9

OFCOM must publish the guidance (and any revised guidance).

162.10

OFCOM must include in each transparency report under section 159 an assessment
of the effectiveness of the guidance.

##### OFCOM’s report in connection with investigation into a death

163

163.1

Subsection (2) applies if OFCOM receive—

163.1.a

a notice from a senior coroner under paragraph 1(2) of Schedule 5 to the
Coroners and Justice Act 2009 in connection with an investigation into the
death of a person;

163.1.b

a request for information in connection with the investigation of a procurator
fiscal into, or an inquiry held or to be held in relation to, the death of a
person;

163.1.c

a notice from a coroner under section 17A(2) of the  Coroners Act (Northern
Ireland) 1959 (c. 15 (N.I.))  in connection with—

163.1.c.i

an investigation to determine whether an inquest into the death of a person is
necessary, or

163.1.c.ii

an inquest in relation to the death of a person.

163.2

OFCOM may produce a report for use by the coroner or procurator fiscal,
dealing with any matters that they consider may be relevant.

163.3

In subsection (1)(b) “ inquiry ” means an inquiry held, or to be held, under
the Inquiries into Fatal Accidents and Sudden Deaths etc. (Scotland) Act  2016
(asp 2) .

##### OFCOM’s reports

164

164.1

OFCOM may from time to time produce and publish reports about online safety
matters.

164.2

In publishing a report mentioned in subsection  (5) , OFCOM must have regard
to the need to exclude from publication, so far as that is practicable, the
matters which are confidential in accordance with subsections  (3)  and  (4) .

164.3

A matter is confidential under this subsection if—

164.3.a

it relates specifically to the affairs of a particular body, and

164.3.b

publication of that matter would or might, in OFCOM’s opinion, seriously and
prejudicially affect the interests of that body.

164.4

A matter is confidential under this subsection if—

164.4.a

it relates to the private affairs of an individual, and

164.4.b

publication of that matter would or might, in OFCOM’s opinion, seriously and
prejudicially affect the interests of that individual.

164.5

The reports referred to in subsection  (2)  are—

164.5.a

a report under section 128 (report in connection with notices to deal with
terrorism content and CSEA content),

164.5.b

a report under section 157 (report about use of age assurance),

164.5.c

a report under section 158 (report about news publisher content and
journalistic content),

164.5.d

a report under section 159 (transparency report),

164.5.e

a report under section 160 (report about reporting and complaints procedures),

164.5.f

a report under section 161 (report about use of app stores by children),

164.5.g

a report under section 162 (report about researchers’ access to information),
and

164.5.h

a report produced under this section.

164.6

See also section 116 (3)  (restriction on publishing intelligence service
information).

#### Media literacy

##### Media literacy

165

165.1

Section 11 of the Communications Act is amended in accordance with subsections
(2)  to  (5) .

165.2

Before subsection (1) insert—

165.2.A1

In this section—

165.2.A1.a

subsection (1) imposes duties on OFCOM which apply in relation to material
published by means of the electronic media (including by means of regulated
services), and

165.2.A1.b

subsections (1A) to (1E) expand on those duties, and impose further duties on
OFCOM, in relation to regulated services only.

165.3

After subsection (1) insert—

165.3.1A

OFCOM must take such steps, and enter into such arrangements, as they consider
most likely to be effective in heightening the public’s awareness and
understanding of ways in which they can protect themselves and others when
using regulated services, in particular by helping them to—

165.3.1A.a

understand the nature and impact of harmful content and the harmful ways in
which regulated services may be used, especially content and activity
disproportionately affecting particular groups, including women and girls;

165.3.1A.b

reduce their and others’ exposure to harmful content and to the use of
regulated services in harmful ways, especially content and activity
disproportionately affecting particular groups, including women and girls;

165.3.1A.c

use or apply—

165.3.1A.c.i

features included in a regulated service, including features mentioned in
section 15(2) of the Online Safety Act 2023, and

165.3.1A.c.ii

tools or apps, including tools such as browser extensions,

so as to mitigate the harms mentioned in paragraph (b);

165.3.1A.d

establish the reliability, accuracy and authenticity of content;

165.3.1A.e

understand the nature and impact of disinformation and misinformation, and
reduce their and others’ exposure to it;

165.3.1A.f

understand how their personal information may be protected.

165.3.1B

OFCOM must take such steps, and enter into such arrangements, as they consider
most likely to encourage the development and use of technologies and systems
for supporting users of regulated services to protect themselves and others as
mentioned in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) of subsection (1A), including
technologies and systems which—

165.3.1B.a

provide further context to users about content they encounter;

165.3.1B.b

help users to identify, and provide further context about, content of
democratic importance present on regulated user-to-user services;

165.3.1B.c

signpost users to resources, tools or information raising awareness about how
to use regulated services so as to mitigate the harms mentioned in subsection
(1A)(b).

165.3.1C

OFCOM’s duty under subsection (1A) is to be performed in the following ways
(among others)—

165.3.1C.a

pursuing activities and initiatives,

165.3.1C.b

commissioning others to pursue activities and initiatives,

165.3.1C.c

taking steps designed to encourage others to pursue activities and
initiatives, and

165.3.1C.d

making arrangements for the carrying out of research (see section 14(6)(a)).

165.3.1D

OFCOM must draw up, and from time to time review and revise, a statement
recommending ways in which others, including providers of regulated services,
might develop, pursue and evaluate activities or initiatives relevant to media
literacy in relation to regulated services.

165.3.1E

OFCOM must publish the statement and any revised statement in such manner as
they consider appropriate for bringing it to the attention of the persons who,
in their opinion, are likely to be affected by it.

165.4

After subsection (2) insert—

165.4.3

In this section and in section 11A, “ regulated service ” means—

165.4.3.a

a regulated user-to-user service, or

165.4.3.b

a regulated search service.

“ Regulated user-to-user service ” and “ regulated search service ” have the
same meaning as in the Online Safety Act 2023 (see section 4 of that Act).

165.4.4

In this section—

165.4.4.a

“ content ”, in relation to regulated services, means regulated user-generated
content, search content or fraudulent advertisements;

165.4.4.b

the following terms have the same meaning as in the Online Safety Act 2023—

      “ content of democratic importance ” (see section 17 of that Act);
“ fraudulent advertisement ” (see sections 38 and 39 of that Act);           “
harm ” (see section 234 of that Act) (and “harmful” is to be interpreted
consistently with that section);           “ provider ” (see section 226 of
that Act);           “ regulated user-generated content ” (see section 55 of
that Act);           “ search content ” (see section 57 of that Act).

165.5

In the heading, for “Duty” substitute  “Duties” .

165.6

In section 14 of the Communications Act (consumer research), in subsection
(6)(a), after “11(1)” insert  “, (1A) and (1B)” .

##### Media literacy strategy and media literacy statement

166

After section 11 of the Communications Act insert—

######### Regulated services: media literacy strategy and media literacy statement

166.11A

166.11A.1

OFCOM must prepare and publish a media literacy strategy within the period of
one year beginning with the day on which the Online Safety Act 2023 is passed.

166.11A.2

A media literacy strategy is a plan setting out how OFCOM propose to exercise
their functions under section 11 in the period covered by the plan, which must
be not more than three years.

166.11A.3

In particular, a media literacy strategy must state OFCOM’s objectives and
priorities for the period it covers.

166.11A.4

Before the end of the period covered by a media literacy strategy, OFCOM must
prepare and publish a media literacy strategy for a further period, ensuring
that each successive strategy covers a period beginning immediately after the
end of the last one.

166.11A.5

In preparing or revising a media literacy strategy, OFCOM must consult such
persons as they consider appropriate.

166.11A.6

OFCOM’s annual report must contain a media literacy statement.

166.11A.7

A media literacy statement is a statement by OFCOM—

166.11A.7.a

summarising what they have done in the financial year to which the report
relates in the exercise of their functions under section 11, and

166.11A.7.b

assessing what progress has been made towards achieving the objectives and
priorities set out in their media literacy strategy in that year.

166.11A.8

A media literacy statement must include a summary and an evaluation of the
activities and initiatives pursued or commissioned by OFCOM in the exercise of
their functions under section 11 in the financial year to which the report
relates.

166.11A.9

The first annual report that is required to contain a media literacy statement
is the report for the financial year during which OFCOM’s first media literacy
strategy is published, and that first statement is to relate to the period
from publication day until the end of that financial year.

166.11A.10

But if OFCOM’s first media literacy strategy is published during the second
half of a financial year—

166.11A.10.a

the first annual report that is required to contain a media literacy statement
is the report for the next financial year, and

166.11A.10.b

that first statement is to relate to the period from publication day until the
end of that financial year.

166.11A.11

References in this section to OFCOM’s functions under section 11 are to those
functions so far as they relate to regulated services.

166.11A.12

In this section—

      “ annual report ” means OFCOM’s annual report under paragraph 12 of the
Schedule to the Office of Communications Act 2002;           “ financial year
” means a year ending with 31 March.

### Appeals and super-complaints

#### Appeals

##### Appeals against OFCOM decisions relating to the register under section 95

167

167.1

This section applies to the following decisions of OFCOM—

167.1.a

a decision to include a regulated user-to-user service in the part of the
register referred to in section 95 (2)(a)  (Category 1 services);

167.1.b

a decision not to remove a regulated user-to-user service from that part of
the register;

167.1.c

a decision to include a regulated search service or a combined service in the
part of the register referred to in section 95 (2)(b)  (Category 2A services);

167.1.d

a decision not to remove a regulated search service or a combined service from
that part of the register;

167.1.e

a decision to include a regulated user-to-user service in the part of the
register referred to in section 95 (2)(c)  (Category 2B services);

167.1.f

a decision not to remove a regulated user-to-user service from that part of
the register.

167.2

The provider of the service to which the decision relates may appeal to the
Upper Tribunal against the decision.

167.3

Where an appeal is made under subsection  (1)(a) ,  (c)  or  (e) , any special
requirements need not be complied with until the determination or withdrawal
of the appeal.

167.4

“ Special requirement ” means—

167.4.a

in the case of an appeal against a decision mentioned in subsection  (1)(a) —

167.4.a.i

any duty or requirement of this Act that applies in relation to Category 1
services but not in relation to any other regulated services, or

167.4.a.ii

any duty or requirement of this Act that applies in relation to Category 1
services, Category 2A services and Category 2B services but not in relation to
any other regulated services;

167.4.b

in the case of an appeal against a decision mentioned in subsection  (1)(c) —

167.4.b.i

any duty or requirement of this Act that applies in relation to Category 2A
services but not in relation to any other regulated services, or

167.4.b.ii

any duty or requirement of this Act that applies in relation to Category 1
services, Category 2A services and Category 2B services but not in relation to
any other regulated services;

167.4.c

in the case of an appeal against a decision mentioned in subsection  (1)(e) ,
any duty or requirement of this Act that applies in relation to Category 1
services, Category 2A services and Category 2B services but not in relation to
any other regulated services.

167.5

The Upper Tribunal must decide the appeal by applying the same principles as
would be applied—

167.5.a

by the High Court on an application for judicial review, or

167.5.b

in Scotland, on an application to the supervisory jurisdiction of the Court of
Session.

167.6

On an appeal under this section, the Upper Tribunal may—

167.6.a

dismiss the appeal, or

167.6.b

quash the decision being challenged.

167.7

Where a decision is quashed, the Upper Tribunal must remit the decision to
OFCOM for reconsideration with such directions (if any) as the Tribunal
considers appropriate.

##### Appeals against OFCOM notices

168

168.1

An appeal to the Upper Tribunal against OFCOM’s decision to give to a person—

168.1.a

a notice under section 121 (1)  (notices to deal with terrorism content and
CSEA content),

168.1.b

a confirmation decision, or

168.1.c

a penalty notice,

may be brought by any person with a sufficient interest in the decision.

168.2

An appeal under subsection  (1)  by a person other than the person given the
notice or decision in question may be brought only with the permission (or
leave) of the Upper Tribunal.

168.3

The Upper Tribunal must decide the appeal by applying the same principles as
would be applied—

168.3.a

by the High Court on an application for judicial review, or

168.3.b

in Scotland, on an application to the supervisory jurisdiction of the Court of
Session.

168.4

On an appeal under this section, the Upper Tribunal may—

168.4.a

dismiss the appeal, or

168.4.b

quash the decision being challenged.

168.5

Where a decision is quashed, the Upper Tribunal must remit the decision to
OFCOM for reconsideration with such directions (if any) as the Tribunal
considers appropriate.

168.6

In this section “ penalty notice ” means a penalty notice under section 139,
140 (5)  or 141 (6) .

#### Super-complaints

##### Power to make super-complaints

169

169.1

An eligible entity may make a complaint to OFCOM that any feature of one or
more regulated services, or any conduct of one or more providers of such
services, or any combination of such features and such conduct is, appears to
be, or presents a material risk of—

169.1.a

causing significant harm to users of the services or members of the public, or
a particular group of such users or members of the public;

169.1.b

significantly adversely affecting the right to freedom of expression within
the law of users of the services or members of the public, or of a particular
group of such users or members of the public; or

169.1.c

otherwise having a significant adverse impact on users of the services or
members of the public, or on a particular group of such users or members of
the public.

169.2

But a complaint under subsection  (1)  that relates to a single regulated
service or that relates to a single provider of one or more regulated services
is only admissible if OFCOM consider that—

169.2.a

the complaint is of particular importance, or

169.2.b

the complaint relates to the impacts on a particularly large number of users
of the service or members of the public.

169.3

An entity is an “eligible entity” if the entity meets criteria specified in
regulations made by the Secretary of State.

169.4

Regulations under subsection  (3)  must specify as one of the criteria that
the entity must be a body representing the interests of users of regulated
services, or members of the public, or a particular group of such users or
members of the public.

169.5

Before making regulations under subsection  (3) , the Secretary of State must
consult—

169.5.a

OFCOM, and

169.5.b

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

169.6

In this section—

      “ conduct ” includes acts and omissions;           “ users ” means
United Kingdom users (see section 227), except in subsection  (1)(a)  where “
users ” means individuals in the United Kingdom who are users of a service.

##### Procedure for super-complaints

170

170.1

The Secretary of State must make regulations containing provision about
procedural matters relating to complaints under section 169.

170.2

Such regulations may, in particular, include provision about the following
matters—

170.2.a

notification to OFCOM of an intention to make a complaint under section 169;

170.2.b

the form and manner of such a complaint, including requirements for supporting
evidence in relation to—

170.2.b.i

matters mentioned in subsections  (1)  and  (2)  of section 169, and

170.2.b.ii

criteria specified in regulations under subsection  (3)  of that section;

170.2.c

steps that OFCOM must take in relation to such a complaint, including
requirements for publication of responses;

170.2.d

time limits for taking steps in relation to such a complaint (or provision
about how such time limits are to be determined) including time limits in
relation to the determination of—

170.2.d.i

whether a complaint is a complaint that is within section 169 (1) ,

170.2.d.ii

where applicable, whether a complaint is admissible under section 169 (2) ,
and

170.2.d.iii

whether an entity is an eligible entity (see section 169 (3) ).

170.3

Before making regulations under subsection  (1) , the Secretary of State must
consult—

170.3.a

OFCOM, and

170.3.b

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

##### OFCOM’s guidance about super-complaints

171

171.1

OFCOM must produce guidance about complaints under section 169, which must
include guidance about—

171.1.a

the criteria specified in regulations under section 169 (3) ,

171.1.b

procedural matters relating to such complaints, and

171.1.c

any other aspect of such complaints that OFCOM consider it appropriate to
include.

171.2

OFCOM must publish the guidance (and any revised or replacement guidance).

### Secretary of State's functions in relation to regulated services

#### Strategic priorities

##### Statement of strategic priorities

172

172.1

The Secretary of State may designate a statement for the purposes of this
section if the requirements set out in section 173 (consultation and
parliamentary procedure) are satisfied.

172.2

The statement is a statement prepared by the Secretary of State that sets out
strategic priorities of His Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom
relating to online safety matters.

172.3

The statement may, among other things, set out particular outcomes identified
with a view to achieving the strategic priorities.

172.4

This section does not restrict the Secretary of State’s powers under any other
provision of this Act or any other enactment.

172.5

A statement designated under subsection  (1)  must be published in such manner
as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

172.6

A statement designated under subsection  (1)  may be amended (including by
replacing the whole or a part of the statement with new material) by a
subsequent statement designated under that subsection, and this section and
sections 92 and 173 apply in relation to any such subsequent statement as they
apply in relation to the original statement.

172.7

Except as provided by subsection  (8) , no amendment may be made under
subsection  (6)  within the period of five years beginning with the day on
which a statement was most recently designated under subsection  (1) .

172.8

An earlier amendment may be made under subsection  (6)  if—

172.8.a

since that day—

172.8.a.i

a Parliamentary general election has taken place, or

172.8.a.ii

there has been a significant change in the policy of His Majesty’s Government
affecting online safety matters, or

172.8.b

the Secretary of State considers that the statement, or any part of it,
conflicts with any of OFCOM’s general duties (within the meaning of section 3
of the Communications Act).

##### Consultation and parliamentary procedure

173

173.1

This section sets out the requirements that must be satisfied in relation to a
statement before the Secretary of State may designate it under section 172.

173.2

The Secretary of State must consult—

173.2.a

OFCOM, and

173.2.b

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate,

on a draft of the statement.

173.3

The Secretary of State must allow OFCOM a period of at least 40 days to
respond to any consultation under subsection  (2)(a) .

173.4

After that period has ended the Secretary of State—

173.4.a

must make any changes to the draft that appear to the Secretary of State to be
necessary in view of responses to the consultation, and

173.4.b

must then lay the draft before Parliament.

173.5

The Secretary of State must then wait until the end of the 40-day period and
may not designate the statement if, within that period, either House of
Parliament resolves not to approve it.

173.6

“The 40-day period” is the period of 40 days beginning with the day on which
the draft is laid before Parliament (or, if it is not laid before each House
on the same day, the later of the days on which it is laid).

173.7

In calculating the 40-day period, no account is to be taken of any period
during which Parliament is dissolved or prorogued or during which both Houses
are adjourned for more than 4 days.

#### Directions to OFCOM

##### Directions about advisory committees

174

174.1

The Secretary of State may give OFCOM a direction requiring OFCOM to establish
a committee to provide them with advice about online safety matters of a kind
specified in the direction.

174.2

The Secretary of State must consult OFCOM before giving or varying such a
direction.

174.3

A committee required to be established by a direction is to consist of the
following members, unless the direction specifies otherwise—

174.3.a

a chairman appointed by OFCOM, and

174.3.b

such number of other members appointed by OFCOM as OFCOM consider appropriate.

174.4

A committee required to be established by a direction must, unless the
direction specifies otherwise, publish a report within the period of 18 months
after being established, and after that must publish periodic reports.

174.5

The Secretary of State may vary or revoke a direction given under this
section.

##### Directions in special circumstances

175

175.1

The Secretary of State may give a direction to OFCOM under subsection  (2)  or
(3)  if the Secretary of State has reasonable grounds for believing that
circumstances exist that present a threat—

175.1.a

to the health or safety of the public, or

175.1.b

to national security.

175.2

A direction under this subsection is a direction requiring OFCOM, in
exercising their media literacy functions, to give priority for a specified
period to specified objectives designed to address the threat presented by the
circumstances mentioned in subsection  (1) .

175.3

A direction under this subsection is a direction requiring OFCOM to give a
public statement notice to—

175.3.a

a specified provider of a regulated service, or

175.3.b

providers of regulated services generally.

175.4

A “public statement notice” is a notice requiring a provider of a regulated
service to make a publicly available statement, by a date specified in the
notice, about steps the provider is taking in response to the threat presented
by the circumstances mentioned in subsection  (1) .

175.5

OFCOM may, by a public statement notice or a subsequent notice, require a
provider of a regulated service to provide OFCOM with such information as they
may require for the purpose of responding to that threat.

175.6

If a direction under subsection  (2)  or  (3)  is given on the ground
mentioned in subsection  (1)(a) , the Secretary of State must publish the
reasons for giving the direction.

175.7

The Secretary of State may vary or revoke a direction given under subsection
(2)  or  (3) .

175.8

If the Secretary of State varies or revokes a direction given under subsection
(3) , OFCOM may, in consequence, vary or revoke a public statement notice that
they have given by virtue of the direction.

175.9

In subsection  (2)  “ media literacy functions ” means OFCOM’s functions under
section 11 of the Communications Act (duties to promote media literacy), so
far as functions under that section relate to regulated services.

175.10

In subsections  (2)  and  (3)  “ specified ” means specified in a direction
under this section.

#### Guidance

##### Secretary of State’s guidance

176

176.1

The Secretary of State may issue guidance to OFCOM about—

176.1.a

OFCOM’s exercise of their functions under this Act,

176.1.b

OFCOM’s exercise of their powers under section 1(3) of the Communications Act
(functions and general powers of OFCOM) to carry out research in connection
with online safety matters or to arrange for others to carry out research in
connection with such matters, and

176.1.c

OFCOM’s exercise of their functions under section 11 of the Communications Act
(media literacy) in relation to regulated services.

176.2

In the rest of this section, “ the guidance ” means any such guidance as is
mentioned in subsection (1), except that it does not include guidance under
section 87 (guidance to OFCOM about fees).

176.3

The Secretary of State must consult OFCOM before issuing, revising or
replacing the guidance.

176.4

The guidance may not be revised or replaced more frequently than once every
three years unless—

176.4.a

the guidance needs to be corrected because of an amendment, repeal or
modification of any provision of this Act or of section 11 of the
Communications Act, or

176.4.b

the revision or replacement is by agreement between the Secretary of State and
OFCOM.

176.5

The guidance must be issued as one document.

176.6

The Secretary of State must lay the guidance (including revised or replacement
guidance) before Parliament.

176.7

The Secretary of State must publish the guidance (and any revised or
replacement guidance).

176.8

In exercising any functions to which the guidance relates, or deciding whether
to exercise them, OFCOM must have regard to the guidance for the time being
published under this section.

#### Annual report

##### Annual report on the Secretary of State’s functions

177

In section 390 of the Communications Act (annual report on the Secretary of
State’s functions), in subsection (2), after paragraph (e) insert—

177.f

the Online Safety Act 2023.

#### Review

##### Review

178

178.1

The Secretary of State must review the operation of—

178.1.a

the regulatory framework provided for in this Act, and

178.1.b

section 11 of the Communications Act, to the extent that that section relates
to regulated services.

178.2

The review—

178.2.a

must not be carried out before the end of the period of two years beginning
with the day on which the last of the provisions of Part 3 comes into force,
but

178.2.b

must be carried out before the end of the period of five years beginning with
that day.

178.3

The review must, in particular, consider how effective the regulatory
framework provided for in this Act is at—

178.3.a

securing that regulated services are operated using systems and processes
that, so far as relevant—

178.3.a.i

minimise the risk of harm to individuals in the United Kingdom presented by
content on regulated services,

178.3.a.ii

provide higher levels of protection for children than for adults,

178.3.a.iii

provide transparency and accountability to users in relation to actions taken
to comply with duties set out in Chapter 2, 3, 4 or 5 of Part 3, Chapter 1, 3
or 4 of Part 4, or Part 5,

178.3.a.iv

protect the right of users and (in the case of search services or combined
services) interested persons to freedom of expression within the law, and

178.3.a.v

protect users from a breach of any statutory provision or rule of law
concerning privacy that is relevant to the use or operation of a regulated
service (including, but not limited to, any such provision or rule concerning
the processing of personal data); and

178.3.b

ensuring that regulation of services is proportionate, having regard to the
level of risk of harm presented by regulated services of different kinds and
to the size and capacity of providers.

178.4

The review must also, in particular, consider—

178.4.a

the effectiveness of—

178.4.a.i

the information gathering and information sharing powers available to OFCOM,
and

178.4.a.ii

the enforcement powers available to OFCOM; and

178.4.b

the extent to which OFCOM have had regard to the desirability of encouraging
innovation by providers of regulated services.

178.5

In carrying out the review, the Secretary of State must consult—

178.5.a

OFCOM, and

178.5.b

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

178.6

In carrying out the review, the Secretary of State must take into account any
report published by OFCOM under section 158 (reports about news publisher
content and journalistic content).

178.7

The Secretary of State must produce and publish a report on the outcome of the
review.

178.8

The report must be laid before Parliament.

178.9

In subsection  (3)  “ content on regulated services ” means—

178.9.a

regulated user-generated content present on regulated services,

178.9.b

search content of regulated services,

178.9.c

fraudulent advertisements present on regulated services, and

178.9.d

regulated provider pornographic content published or displayed on regulated
services.

178.10

In subsection  (9) —

      “ fraudulent advertisement ” has the meaning given by section 38 or 39
(depending on the kind of service in question);           “ regulated user-
generated content ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 (see section 55);
“ regulated provider pornographic content ” and “ published or displayed ”
have the same meaning as in Part 5 (see section 79);           “ search
content ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 (see section 57).

### Communications offences

#### False and threatening communications offences

##### False communications offence

179

179.1

A person commits an offence if—

179.1.a

the person sends a message (see section 182),

179.1.b

the message conveys information that the person knows to be false,

179.1.c

at the time of sending it, the person intended the message, or the information
in it, to cause non-trivial psychological or physical harm to a likely
audience, and

179.1.d

the person has no reasonable excuse for sending the message.

179.2

For the purposes of this offence an individual is a “likely audience” of a
message if, at the time the message is sent, it is reasonably foreseeable that
the individual—

179.2.a

would encounter the message, or

179.2.b

in the online context, would encounter a subsequent message forwarding or
sharing the content of the message.

179.3

In a case where several or many individuals are a likely audience, it is not
necessary for the purposes of subsection  (1)(c)  that the person intended to
cause harm to any one of them in particular (or to all of them).

179.4

See section 180 for exemptions from the offence under this section.

179.5

A person who commits an offence under this section is liable—

179.5.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the maximum term for summary offences or a fine (or both);

179.5.b

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or
both).

179.6

In subsection  (5)(a)  “ the maximum term for summary offences ” means—

179.6.a

if the offence is committed before the time when section 281(5) of the
Criminal Justice Act 2003 comes into force, 6 months;

179.6.b

if the offence is committed after that time, 51 weeks.

179.7

Proceedings for an offence under this section may be brought within the period
of 6 months beginning with the date on which evidence sufficient in the
opinion of the prosecutor to justify the proceedings comes to the prosecutor’s
knowledge.

179.8

But such proceedings may not be brought by virtue of subsection  (7)  more
than 3 years after the commission of the offence.

179.9

A certificate signed by the prosecutor as to the date on which the evidence in
question came to the prosecutor’s knowledge is conclusive evidence of the date
on which it did so; and a certificate to that effect and purporting to be so
signed is to be treated as being so signed unless the contrary is proved.

##### Exemptions from offence under section 179

180

180.1

A recognised news publisher cannot commit an offence under section 179.

180.2

An offence under section 179 cannot be committed by the holder of a licence
under the Broadcasting Act 1990 or 1996 in connection with anything done under
the authority of the licence.

180.3

An offence under section 179 cannot be committed by the holder of a multiplex
licence in connection with anything done under the authority of the licence.

180.4

An offence under section 179 cannot be committed by the provider of an on-
demand programme service in connection with anything done in the course of
providing such a service.

180.5

An offence under section 179 cannot be committed in connection with the
showing of a film made for cinema to members of the public.

##### Threatening communications offence

181

181.1

A person commits an offence if—

181.1.a

the person sends a message (see section 182),

181.1.b

the message conveys a threat of death or serious harm, and

181.1.c

at the time of sending it, the person—

181.1.c.i

intended an individual encountering the message to fear that the threat would
be carried out (whether or not by the person sending the message), or

181.1.c.ii

was reckless as to whether an individual encountering the message would fear
that the threat would be carried out (whether or not by the person sending the
message).

181.2

“ Serious harm ” means—

181.2.a

serious injury amounting to grievous bodily harm within the meaning of the
Offences against the Person Act 1861,

181.2.b

rape,

181.2.c

assault by penetration within the meaning of section 2 of the Sexual Offences
Act 2003, or

181.2.d

serious financial loss.

181.3

In proceedings for an offence under this section relating to a threat of
serious financial loss, it is a defence for the person to show that—

181.3.a

the threat was used to reinforce a reasonable demand, and

181.3.b

the person reasonably believed that the use of the threat was a proper means
of reinforcing the demand.

181.4

If evidence is adduced which is sufficient to raise an issue with respect to
the defence under subsection  (3) , the court must assume that the defence is
satisfied unless the prosecution proves beyond reasonable doubt that it is
not.

181.5

A person who commits an offence under this section is liable—

181.5.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

181.5.b

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

181.5.c

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years
or a fine (or both).

##### Interpretation of sections 179 to 181

182

182.1

This section applies for the purposes of sections 179 to 181, and references
in this section to an offence are to an offence under section 179 or 181.

182.2

A person “sends a message” if the person—

182.2.a

sends, transmits or publishes a communication (including an oral
communication) by electronic means, or

182.2.b

sends, or gives to an individual, a letter or a thing of any other
description,

and references to a message are to be read accordingly.

182.3

A person also “sends a message” if the person—

182.3.a

causes a communication (including an oral communication) to be sent,
transmitted or published by electronic means, or

182.3.b

causes a letter or a thing of any other description to be—

182.3.b.i

sent, or

182.3.b.ii

given to an individual.

182.4

But a provider of an internet service by means of which a communication is
sent, transmitted or published is not to be regarded as a person who sends a
message.

182.5

“ Encounter ”, in relation to a message, means read, view, hear or otherwise
experience the message.

182.6

It does not matter whether the content of a message is created by the person
who sends it (so for example, in the online context, an offence may be
committed by a person who forwards another person’s direct message or shares
another person’s post).

182.7

In the application of sections 179 to 181 to the sending by electronic means
of a message consisting of or including a hyperlink to other content—

182.7.a

references to the message are to be read as including references to content
accessed directly via the hyperlink, and

182.7.b

an individual who is a likely audience in relation to the hyperlink for the
purposes of section 179 is to be assumed to be a likely audience in relation
to the linked content.

182.8

In the application of sections 179 to 181 to the sending of an item on which
data is stored electronically, references to the message are to be read as
including content accessed by means of the item to which the recipient is
specifically directed by the sender (and in this subsection “ sending ”
includes “giving”, and “sender” is to be read accordingly).

182.9

In the online context, the date on which a person commits an offence in
relation to a message is the date on which the message is first sent by the
person.

182.10

“ Recognised news publisher ” has the meaning given by section 56.

182.11

“ Multiplex licence ” means a licence under section 8 of the Wireless
Telegraphy Act 2006 which authorises the provision of a multiplex service
within the meaning of section 42(6) of that Act.

182.12

“ On-demand programme service ” has the same meaning as in the Communications
Act (see section 368A of that Act), and a person is the “provider” of an on-
demand programme service if the person has given notification of the person’s
intention to provide that service in accordance with section 368BA of that
Act.

#### Offences of sending or showing flashing images

##### Offences of sending or showing flashing images electronically

183

183.1

A person (A) commits an offence if—

183.1.a

A sends a communication by electronic means which consists of or includes
flashing images (see subsection  (13) ),

183.1.b

either condition 1 or condition 2 is met, and

183.1.c

A has no reasonable excuse for sending the communication.

183.2

Condition 1 is that—

183.2.a

at the time the communication is sent, it is reasonably foreseeable that an
individual with epilepsy would be among the individuals who would view it, and

183.2.b

A sends the communication with the intention that such an individual will
suffer harm as a result of viewing the flashing images.

183.3

Condition 2 is that, when sending the communication—

183.3.a

A believes that an individual (B)—

183.3.a.i

whom A knows to be an individual with epilepsy, or

183.3.a.ii

whom A suspects to be an individual with epilepsy,

will, or might, view it, and

183.3.b

A intends that B will suffer harm as a result of viewing the flashing images.

183.4

In subsections (2)(a) and (3)(a), references to viewing the communication are
to be read as including references to viewing a subsequent communication
forwarding or sharing the content of the communication.

183.5

The exemptions contained in section 180 apply to an offence under subsection
(1) as they apply to an offence under section 179.

183.6

For the purposes of subsection (1), a provider of an internet service by means
of which a communication is sent is not to be regarded as a person who sends a
communication.

183.7

In the application of subsection (1) to a communication consisting of or
including a hyperlink to other content, references to the communication are to
be read as including references to content accessed directly via the
hyperlink.

183.8

A person (A) commits an offence if—

183.8.a

A shows an individual (B) flashing images by means of an electronic
communications device,

183.8.b

when showing the images—

183.8.b.i

A knows that B is an individual with epilepsy, or

183.8.b.ii

A suspects that B is an individual with epilepsy,

183.8.c

when showing the images, A intends that B will suffer harm as a result of
viewing them, and

183.8.d

A has no reasonable excuse for showing the images.

183.9

An offence under subsection (1) or (8) cannot be committed by a healthcare
professional acting in that capacity.

183.10

A person who commits an offence under subsection (1) or (8) is liable—

183.10.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

183.10.b

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

183.10.c

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years
or a fine (or both).

183.11

It does not matter for the purposes of this section whether flashing images
may be viewed at once (for example, a GIF that plays automatically) or only
after some action is performed (for example, pressing play).

183.12

In this section—

183.12.a

references to sending a communication include references to causing a
communication to be sent;

183.12.b

references to showing flashing images include references to causing flashing
images to be shown.

183.13

In this section—

      “ electronic communications device ” means equipment or a device that is
capable of transmitting images by electronic means;           “ flashing
images ” means images which carry a risk that an individual with
photosensitive epilepsy who viewed them would suffer a seizure as a result;
“ harm ” means—         a seizure, or           alarm or distress;
“ individual with epilepsy ” includes, but is not limited to, an individual
with photosensitive epilepsy;           “ send ” includes transmit and publish
(and related expressions are to be read accordingly).

#### Offence of encouraging or assisting serious self-harm

##### Offence of encouraging or assisting serious self-harm

184

184.1

A person (D) commits an offence if—

184.1.a

D does a relevant act capable of encouraging or assisting the serious self-
harm of another person, and

184.1.b

D’s act was intended to encourage or assist the serious self-harm of another
person.

184.2

D “does a relevant act” if D—

184.2.a

communicates in person,

184.2.b

sends, transmits or publishes a communication by electronic means,

184.2.c

shows a person such a communication,

184.2.d

publishes material by any means other than electronic means,

184.2.e

sends, gives, shows or makes available to a person—

184.2.e.i

material published as mentioned in paragraph (d), or

184.2.e.ii

any form of correspondence, or

184.2.f

sends, gives or makes available to a person an item on which data is stored
electronically.

184.3

“ Serious self-harm ” means self-harm amounting to—

184.3.a

in England and Wales and Northern Ireland, grievous bodily harm within the
meaning of the Offences Against the Person Act 1861, and

184.3.b

in Scotland, severe injury,

and includes successive acts of self-harm which cumulatively reach that
threshold.

184.4

The person referred to in subsection (1)(a) and (b) need not be a specific
person (or class of persons) known to, or identified by, D.

184.5

D may commit an offence under this section whether or not serious self-harm
occurs.

184.6

If a person (D1) arranges for a person (D2) to do an act that is capable of
encouraging or assisting the serious self-harm of another person and D2 does
that act, D1 is to be treated as also having done it.

184.7

In the application of subsection (1) to an act by D involving an electronic
communication or a publication in physical form, it does not matter whether
the content of the communication or publication is created by D (so for
example, in the online context, the offence under this section may be
committed by forwarding another person’s direct message or sharing another
person’s post).

184.8

In the application of subsection (1) to the sending, transmission or
publication by electronic means of a communication consisting of or including
a hyperlink to other content, the reference in subsection (2)(b) to the
communication is to be read as including a reference to content accessed
directly via the hyperlink.

184.9

In the application of subsection (1) to an act by D involving an item on which
data is stored electronically, the reference in subsection (2)(f) to the item
is to be read as including a reference to content accessed by means of the
item to which the person in receipt of the item is specifically directed by D.

184.10

A provider of an internet service by means of which a communication is sent,
transmitted or published is not to be regarded as a person who sends,
transmits or publishes it.

184.11

Any reference in this section to doing an act that is capable of encouraging
the serious self-harm of another person includes a reference to doing so by
threatening another person or otherwise putting pressure on another person to
seriously self-harm.

“Seriously self-harm” is to be interpreted consistently with subsection (3).

184.12

Any reference to an act in this section, except in subsection (3), includes a
reference to a course of conduct, and references to doing an act are to be
read accordingly.

184.13

In subsection (3) “ act ” includes omission.

184.14

A person who commits an offence under this section is liable—

184.14.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

184.14.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

184.14.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

184.14.d

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years
or a fine (or both).

#### Further provision

##### Extra-territorial application and jurisdiction

185

185.1

Sections 179(1), 181(1) and 183 (1)  apply to an act done outside the United
Kingdom, but only if the act is done by a person within subsection  (2) .

185.2

A person is within this subsection if the person is—

185.2.a

an individual who is habitually resident in England and Wales or Northern
Ireland, or

185.2.b

a body incorporated or constituted under the law of England and Wales or
Northern Ireland.

185.3

Section 184 (1)  applies to an act done outside the United Kingdom, but only
if the act is done by a person within subsection  (4) .

185.4

A person is within this subsection if the person is—

185.4.a

an individual who is habitually resident in the United Kingdom, or

185.4.b

a body incorporated or constituted under the law of any part of the United
Kingdom.

185.5

Proceedings for an offence committed under section 179, 181 or 183 (1)
outside the United Kingdom may be taken, and the offence may for incidental
purposes be treated as having been committed, at any place in England and
Wales or Northern Ireland.

185.6

Proceedings for an offence committed under section 184 outside the United
Kingdom may be taken, and the offence may for incidental purposes be treated
as having been committed, at any place in the United Kingdom.

185.7

In the application of subsection  (6)  to Scotland, any such proceedings
against a person may be taken, and the offence may for incidental purposes be
treated as having been committed—

185.7.a

in any sheriff court district in which the person is apprehended or is in
custody, or

185.7.b

in such sheriff court district as the Lord Advocate may determine.

185.8

In subsection  (7)  “ sheriff court district ” is to be construed in
accordance with the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 (see section 307(1)
of that Act).

##### Liability of corporate officers

186

186.1

If an offence under section 179, 181, 183 or 184 is committed by a body
corporate and it is proved that the offence—

186.1.a

has been committed with the consent or connivance of an officer of the body
corporate, or

186.1.b

is attributable to any neglect on the part of an officer of the body
corporate,

the officer (as well as the body corporate) commits the offence and is liable
to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

186.2

“ Officer ”, in relation to a body corporate, means—

186.2.a

a director, manager, associate, secretary or other similar officer, or

186.2.b

a person purporting to act in any such capacity.

In paragraph  (a)  “ director ”, in relation to a body corporate whose affairs
are managed by its members, means a member of the body corporate.

186.3

If an offence under section 184 is committed by a Scottish partnership and it
is proved that the offence—

186.3.a

has been committed with the consent or connivance of a partner of the
partnership, or

186.3.b

is attributable to any neglect on the part of a partner of the partnership,

the partner (as well as the partnership) commits the offence and is liable to
be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

186.4

“ Partner ”, in relation to a Scottish partnership, includes any person who
was purporting to act as a partner.

#### Offences to be inserted into Sexual Offences Act 2003

##### Sending etc photograph or film of genitals

187

In the Sexual Offences Act 2003, after section 66 insert—

######### Sending etc photograph or film of genitals

187.66A

187.66A.1

A person (A) who intentionally sends or gives a photograph or film of any
person’s genitals to another person (B) commits an offence if—

187.66A.1.a

A intends that B will see the genitals and be caused alarm, distress or
humiliation, or

187.66A.1.b

A sends or gives such a photograph or film for the purpose of obtaining sexual
gratification and is reckless as to whether B will be caused alarm, distress
or humiliation.

187.66A.2

References to sending or giving such a photograph or film to another person
include, in particular—

187.66A.2.a

sending it to another person by any means, electronically or otherwise,

187.66A.2.b

showing it to another person, and

187.66A.2.c

placing it for a particular person to find.

187.66A.3

“ Photograph ” includes the negative as well as the positive version.

187.66A.4

“ Film ” means a moving image.

187.66A.5

References to a photograph or film also include—

187.66A.5.a

an image, whether made or altered by computer graphics or in any other way,
which appears to be a photograph or film,

187.66A.5.b

a copy of a photograph, film or image within paragraph (a), and

187.66A.5.c

data stored by any means which is capable of conversion into a photograph,
film or image within paragraph (a).

187.66A.6

A person who commits an offence under this section is liable—

187.66A.6.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the general
limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

187.66A.6.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years.

##### Sharing or threatening to share intimate photograph or film

188

In the Sexual Offences Act 2003, after section 66A (inserted by section 187),
insert—

######### Sharing or threatening to share intimate photograph or film

188.66B

188.66B.1

A person (A) commits an offence if—

188.66B.1.a

A intentionally shares a photograph or film which shows, or appears to show,
another person (B) in an intimate state,

188.66B.1.b

B does not consent to the sharing of the photograph or film, and

188.66B.1.c

A does not reasonably believe that B consents.

188.66B.2

A person (A) commits an offence if—

188.66B.2.a

A intentionally shares a photograph or film which shows, or appears to show,
another person (B) in an intimate state,

188.66B.2.b

A does so with the intention of causing B alarm, distress or humiliation, and

188.66B.2.c

B does not consent to the sharing of the photograph or film.

188.66B.3

A person (A) commits an offence if—

188.66B.3.a

A intentionally shares a photograph or film which shows, or appears to show,
another person (B) in an intimate state,

188.66B.3.b

A does so for the purpose of A or another person obtaining sexual
gratification,

188.66B.3.c

B does not consent to the sharing of the photograph or film, and

188.66B.3.d

A does not reasonably believe that B consents.

188.66B.4

A person (A) commits an offence if—

188.66B.4.a

A threatens to share a photograph or film which shows, or appears to show,
another person (B) in an intimate state, and

188.66B.4.b

A does so—

188.66B.4.b.i

with the intention that B or another person who knows B will fear that the
threat will be carried out, or

188.66B.4.b.ii

being reckless as to whether B or another person who knows B will fear that
the threat will be carried out.

188.66B.5

Subsections  (1)  to  (4)  are subject to section  66C  (exemptions).

188.66B.6

For the purposes of subsections  (1)  to  (3)  and section  66C (3)(b) —

188.66B.6.a

“consent” to the sharing of a photograph or film includes general consent
covering the particular act of sharing as well as specific consent to the
particular act of sharing, and

188.66B.6.b

whether a belief is reasonable is to be determined having regard to all the
circumstances including any steps A has taken to ascertain whether B consents.

188.66B.7

Where a person is charged with an offence under subsection  (4) , it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove—

188.66B.7.a

that the photograph or film mentioned in the threat exists, or

188.66B.7.b

if it does exist, that it is in fact a photograph or film which shows or
appears to show a person in an intimate state.

188.66B.8

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under subsection  (1)  to
prove that the person had a reasonable excuse for sharing the photograph or
film.

188.66B.9

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (1)  is liable on summary
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the maximum term for
summary offences or a fine (or both).

188.66B.10

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (2) ,  (3)  or  (4)  is
liable—

188.66B.10.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the general
limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

188.66B.10.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years.

188.66B.11

In subsection  (9)  “ the maximum term for summary offences ” means—

188.66B.11.a

if the offence is committed before the time when section 281(5) of the
Criminal Justice Act 2003 comes into force, six months;

188.66B.11.b

if the offence is committed after that time, 51 weeks.

188.66B.12

If on the trial of a person charged with an offence under subsection  (2)  or
(3)  a magistrates’ court or jury finds the person not guilty of the offence
charged, the magistrates’ court or jury may find the person guilty of an
offence under subsection  (1) .

188.66B.13

The Crown Court has the same powers and duties in relation to a person who is
by virtue of subsection  (12)  convicted before it of an offence under
subsection  (1)  as a magistrates’ court would have on convicting the person
of the offence.

######### Sharing or threatening to share intimate photograph or film: exemptions

188.66C

188.66C.1

A person (A) who shares a photograph or film which shows, or appears to show,
another person (B) in an intimate state does not commit an offence under
section  66B (1) ,  (2)  or  (3)  if—

188.66C.1.a

the photograph or film was taken in a place to which the public or a section
of the public had or were permitted to have access (whether on payment or
otherwise),

188.66C.1.b

B had no reasonable expectation of privacy from the photograph or film being
taken, and

188.66C.1.c

B was, or A reasonably believes that B was, in the intimate state voluntarily.

188.66C.2

For the purposes of subsection  (1)(b) , whether a person had a reasonable
expectation of privacy from a photograph or film being taken is to be
determined by reference to the circumstances that the person sharing the
photograph or film reasonably believes to have existed at the time the
photograph or film was taken.

188.66C.3

A person (A) who shares a photograph or film which shows, or appears to show,
another person (B) in an intimate state does not commit an offence under
section  66B (1) ,  (2)  or  (3)  if—

188.66C.3.a

the photograph or film had, or A reasonably believes that the photograph or
film had, been previously publicly shared, and

188.66C.3.b

B had, or A reasonably believes that B had, consented to the previous sharing.

188.66C.4

A person (A) who shares a photograph or film which shows, or appears to show,
another person (B) in an intimate state does not commit an offence under
section  66B (1)  if—

188.66C.4.a

B is a person under 16,

188.66C.4.b

B lacks, or A reasonably believes that B lacks, capacity to consent to the
sharing of the photograph or film, and

188.66C.4.c

the photograph or film is shared—

188.66C.4.c.i

with a healthcare professional acting in that capacity, or

188.66C.4.c.ii

otherwise in connection with the care or treatment of B by a healthcare
professional.

188.66C.5

A person who shares a photograph or film which shows, or appears to show, a
child in an intimate state does not commit an offence under section  66B (1)
if the photograph or film is of a kind ordinarily shared between family and
friends.

188.66C.6

A person who threatens to share a photograph or film which shows, or appears
to show, another person in an intimate state does not commit an offence under
section  66B (4)  if, by reason of this section, the person would not commit
an offence under section  66B (1) ,  (2)  or  (3)  by sharing the photograph
or film in the circumstances conveyed by the threat.

######### Sharing or threatening to share intimate photograph or film: interpretation

188.66D

188.66D.1

This section applies for the purposes of sections  66B  and  66C .

188.66D.2

A person “shares” something if the person, by any means, gives or shows it to
another person or makes it available to another person.

188.66D.3

But a provider of an internet service by means of which a photograph or film
is shared is not to be regarded as a person who shares it.

188.66D.4

“ Photograph ” and “ film ” have the same meaning as in section 66A (see
subsections (3) to (5) of that section).

188.66D.5

Except where a photograph or film falls within subsection  (8) , a photograph
or film shows, or appears to show, another person in an intimate state if it
shows or appears to show—

188.66D.5.a

the person participating or engaging in an act which a reasonable person would
consider to be a sexual act,

188.66D.5.b

the person doing a thing which a reasonable person would consider to be
sexual,

188.66D.5.c

all or part of the person’s exposed genitals, buttocks or breasts,

188.66D.5.d

the person in an act of urination or defecation, or

188.66D.5.e

the person carrying out an act of personal care associated with the person’s
urination, defecation or genital or anal discharge.

188.66D.6

For the purposes of subsection  (5)(c)  the reference to all or part of a
person’s “exposed” genitals, buttocks or breasts includes—

188.66D.6.a

a reference to all or part of the person’s genitals, buttocks or breasts
visible through wet or otherwise transparent clothing,

188.66D.6.b

the case where all or part of the person’s genitals, buttocks or breasts would
be exposed but for the fact that they are covered only with underwear, and

188.66D.6.c

the case where all or part of the person’s genitals, buttocks or breasts would
be exposed but for the fact that they are obscured, provided that the area
obscured is similar to or smaller than an area that would typically be covered
by underwear worn to cover a person’s genitals, buttocks or breasts (as the
case may be).

188.66D.7

In subsection  (6)(c)  “ obscured ” means obscured by any means, other than by
clothing that a person is wearing, including, in particular, by an object, by
part of a person’s body or by digital alteration.

188.66D.8

A photograph or film falls within this subsection if (so far as it shows or
appears to show a person in an intimate state) it shows or appears to show
something, other than breastfeeding, that is of a kind ordinarily seen in
public.

188.66D.9

For the purposes of subsection  (8)  “ breastfeeding ” includes the
rearranging of clothing in the course of preparing to breastfeed or having
just finished breastfeeding.

#### Repeals and amendments in connection with offences

##### Repeals in connection with offences under sections 179 and 181

189

189.1

Section 127(2)(a) and (b) of the Communications Act (false messages) is
repealed so far as it extends to England and Wales and Northern Ireland.

189.2

The following provisions of the Malicious Communications Act 1988 are
repealed—

189.2.a

section 1(1)(a)(ii),

189.2.b

section 1(1)(a)(iii), and

189.2.c

section 1(2).

189.3

The following provisions of the Malicious Communications (Northern Ireland)
Order 1988 ( S.I. 1988/1849 (N.I. 18) ) are repealed—

189.3.a

Article 3(1)(a)(ii),

189.3.b

Article 3(1)(a)(iii), and

189.3.c

Article 3(2).

##### Repeals in connection with offences under section 188

190

Sections 33 to 35 of the Criminal Justice and Courts Act 2015 (disclosing or
threatening to disclose private sexual photographs and films with intent to
cause distress) are repealed.

##### Consequential amendments

191

191.1

Part 1 of Schedule 14 contains amendments consequential on sections 179, 181
and 183.

191.2

Part  2  of Schedule 14 contains amendments consequential on section 184.

191.3

Part  3  of Schedule 14 contains amendments consequential on sections 187 and
188.

191.4

Part 4 of Schedule 14 contains amendments consequential on section 190.

### Supplementary and general

#### Providers' judgements about the status of content

##### Providers’ judgements about the status of content

192

192.1

This section sets out the approach to be taken where—

192.1.a

a system or process operated or used by a provider of a Part 3 service for the
purpose of compliance with relevant requirements,

192.1.b

a risk assessment required to be carried out by Part 3, or

192.1.c

an assessment required to be carried out by section 14,

involves a judgement by a provider about whether content is content of a
particular kind.

192.2

Such judgements are to be made on the basis of all relevant information that
is reasonably available to a provider.

192.3

In construing the reference to information that is reasonably available to a
provider, the following factors, in particular, are relevant—

192.3.a

the size and capacity of the provider, and

192.3.b

whether a judgement is made by human moderators, by means of automated systems
or processes or by means of automated systems or processes together with human
moderators.

192.4

Subsections (5) to (7) apply (as well as subsection (2)) in relation to
judgements by providers about whether content is—

192.4.a

illegal content, or illegal content of a particular kind, or

192.4.b

a fraudulent advertisement.

192.5

In making such judgements, the approach to be followed is whether a provider
has reasonable grounds to infer that content is content of the kind in
question (and a provider must treat content as content of the kind in question
if reasonable grounds for that inference exist).

192.6

Reasonable grounds for that inference exist in relation to content and an
offence if, following the approach in subsection (2), a provider—

192.6.a

has reasonable grounds to infer that all elements necessary for the commission
of the offence, including mental elements, are present or satisfied, and

192.6.b

does not have reasonable grounds to infer that a defence to the offence may be
successfully relied upon.

192.7

In the case of content generated by a bot or other automated tool, the tests
mentioned in subsection (6)(a) and (b) are to be applied in relation to the
conduct or mental state of a person who may be assumed to control the bot or
tool (or, depending what a provider knows in a particular case, the actual
person who controls the bot or tool).

192.8

In considering a provider’s compliance with relevant requirements to which
this section is relevant, OFCOM may take into account whether providers’
judgements follow the approaches set out in this section (including judgements
made by means of automated systems or processes, alone or together with human
moderators).

192.9

In this section—

      “ fraudulent advertisement ” has the meaning given by section 38 or 39
(depending on the kind of service in question);           “ illegal content ”
has the same meaning as in Part 3 (see section 59);           “ relevant
requirements ” means—         duties and requirements under this Act, and
requirements of a notice given by OFCOM under this Act.

##### OFCOM’s guidance about illegal content judgements

193

193.1

OFCOM must produce guidance for providers of Part 3 services about the matters
dealt with in section 192 so far as relating to illegal content judgements.

193.2

“ Illegal content judgements ” means—

193.2.a

judgements of a kind mentioned in subsection (4) of that section, and

193.2.b

judgements by providers about whether news publisher content amounts to a
relevant offence (see section 18 (5)  and  (10) ).

193.3

Before producing the guidance (including revised or replacement guidance),
OFCOM must consult such persons as they consider appropriate.

193.4

OFCOM must publish the guidance (and any revised or replacement guidance).

#### Time-limits for first guidance

##### Time for publishing first guidance under certain provisions of this Act

194

194.1

OFCOM must publish guidance to which this section applies within the period of
18 months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed.

194.2

This section applies to—

194.2.a

the first guidance under section 52 (3)(a)  (record-keeping and review);

194.2.b

the first guidance under section 52 (3)(b)  (children’s access assessments);

194.2.c

the first guidance under section 53(1) (content harmful to children);

194.2.d

the first guidance under section 82 (provider pornographic content);

194.2.e

the first guidance under section 99(1) (illegal content risk assessments under
section 9);

194.2.f

the first guidance under section 99(2) (illegal content risk assessments under
section 26);

194.2.g

the first guidance under section 99(3) (children’s risk assessments);

194.2.h

the first guidance under section 151 (enforcement);

194.2.i

the first guidance under section 193 relating to illegal content judgements
within the meaning of subsection (2)(a) of that section (illegal content and
fraudulent advertisements).

194.3

If OFCOM consider that it is necessary to extend the period mentioned in
subsection (1) in relation to guidance mentioned in any of paragraphs  (a)  to
(i)  of subsection  (2) , OFCOM may extend the period in relation to that
guidance by up to 12 months by making and publishing a statement.

But this is subject to subsection (6).

194.4

A statement under subsection  (3)  must set out—

194.4.a

the reasons why OFCOM consider that it is necessary to extend the period
mentioned in subsection (1) in relation to the guidance concerned, and

194.4.b

the period of extension.

194.5

A statement under subsection (3) may be published at the same time as (or
incorporate) a statement under section 43(12) (extension of time to prepare
certain codes of practice).

194.6

But a statement under subsection (3) may not be made in relation to guidance
mentioned in a particular paragraph of subsection (2) if—

194.6.a

a statement has previously been made under subsection (3) (whether in relation
to guidance mentioned in the same or a different paragraph of subsection (2)),
or

194.6.b

a statement has previously been made under section 43(12).

#### Liability of providers etc

##### Providers that are not legal persons

195

195.1

In this section a “ relevant entity ” means an entity that—

195.1.a

is the provider of a regulated service, and

195.1.b

is not a legal person under the law under which it is formed.

195.2

If a penalty notice is given to a relevant entity (in the name of the entity),
the penalty must be paid out of the entity’s funds.

195.3

If a notice is given by OFCOM to a relevant entity (in the name of the entity)
under any provision of this Act, the notice continues to have effect despite a
change in the membership of the entity.

195.4

If a penalty notice is given jointly to two or more officers or members of a
relevant entity, those individuals are jointly and severally liable to pay the
penalty under it.

195.5

In subsection  (4)  the reference to officers or members of a relevant entity
includes a reference to employees of such an entity or any other individuals
associated with such an entity.

195.6

In this section a “ penalty notice ” means—

195.6.a

a confirmation decision that imposes a penalty (see sections 132 (5)(b)  and
137),

195.6.b

a penalty notice under section 139,

195.6.c

a penalty notice under section 140 (5) , or

195.6.d

a penalty notice under section 141 (6) .

##### Individuals providing regulated services: liability

196

196.1

This section applies in relation to two or more individuals who together are
the provider of a regulated service (see section 226 (3) ,  (5) ,  (7) ,  (9)
and  (11) ).

196.2

Any duty or requirement imposed on such a provider under any of the provisions
specified in subsection  (3) , or any liability of such a provider to pay a
fee under section 84 or Schedule 10, is to be taken to be imposed on, or to be
a liability of, all the individuals jointly and severally.

196.3

The provisions are—

196.3.a

Chapter 2 of Part 3 (providers of user-to-user services: duties of care);

196.3.b

Chapter 3 of Part 3 (providers of search services: duties of care);

196.3.c

Chapter 4 of Part 3 (children’s access assessments);

196.3.d

Chapter 5 of Part 3 (duties about fraudulent advertising);

196.3.e

Chapter 1 of Part 4 (user identity verification);

196.3.f

Chapter 2 of Part 4 (reporting CSEA content);

196.3.g

Chapter 3 of Part 4 (terms of service: transparency, accountability and
freedom of expression);

196.3.h

Chapter 4 of Part 4 (deceased child users);

196.3.i

Chapter 5 of Part 4 (transparency reporting);

196.3.j

section 81 (provider pornographic content);

196.3.k

section 83 (duty to notify OFCOM).

196.4

A notice in respect of a matter that may or must be given by OFCOM under any
provision of this Act may be given—

196.4.a

to only one of the individuals,

196.4.b

jointly to two or more of them, or

196.4.c

jointly to all of them,

but a separate notice may not be given to each of the individuals in respect
of the matter.

196.5

If a penalty notice is given jointly to two or more individuals, those
individuals are jointly and severally liable to pay the penalty under it.

196.6

In subsection  (5)  a “ penalty notice ” means—

196.6.a

a confirmation decision that imposes a penalty (see sections 132 (5)(b)  and
137),

196.6.b

a penalty notice under section 139,

196.6.c

a penalty notice under section 140 (5) , or

196.6.d

a penalty notice under section 141 (6) .

##### Liability of parent entities etc

197

Schedule 15 contains provision about—

197.a

the giving of joint provisional notices of contravention to parent entities
etc,

197.b

the liability of parent entities for failures by subsidiary entities,

197.c

the liability of subsidiary entities for failures by parent entities,

197.d

the liability of fellow subsidiary entities for failures by subsidiary
entities, and

197.e

the liability of controlling individuals for failures by entities.

##### Former providers of regulated services

198

198.1

A power conferred by Chapter 6 of Part 7 (enforcement powers) to give a notice
to a provider of a regulated service is to be read as including power to give
a notice to a person who was, at the relevant time, a provider of such a
service but who has ceased to be a provider of such a service (and that
Chapter and Schedules 13 and 15 are to be read accordingly).

198.2

“ The relevant time ” means—

198.2.a

the time of the failure to which the notice relates, or

198.2.b

in the case of a notice which relates to the requirement in section 105(1) to
co-operate with an investigation, the time of the failure or possible failure
to which the investigation relates.

#### Offences

##### Information offences: supplementary

199

199.1

Proceedings against a person for an offence under section 109 (1)  or
paragraph  18(1)(b)  of Schedule 12 may be brought only if—

199.1.a

OFCOM have given the person a provisional notice of contravention in respect
of the failure to comply with the requirements of an information notice or the
requirements imposed by a person acting under Schedule 12 (as the case may
be),

199.1.b

OFCOM have given the person a confirmation decision in respect of that failure
imposing requirements of a kind described in section 133 (1)  and the time
allowed for compliance with the decision has expired without those
requirements having been complied with,

199.1.c

OFCOM have not imposed a penalty on the person in respect of that failure,

199.1.d

a service restriction order under section 144 has not been made in relation to
a regulated service provided by the person in respect of that failure, and

199.1.e

an access restriction order under section 146 has not been made in relation to
a regulated service provided by the person in respect of that failure.

199.2

Proceedings for an offence under section 110 (2)  (failure by named senior
manager to prevent offence under section 109 (1) ) may be brought only if the
conditions in subsection  (1)  are met in respect of the offence under section
109 (1) .

199.3

Where a penalty has been imposed on a person in respect of an act or omission
constituting an offence under section 69 or 109 or paragraph  18  of Schedule
12, no proceedings may be brought against the person for that offence.

199.4

Where a penalty has been imposed on an entity in respect of an act or omission
constituting an offence under section 109, no proceedings for an offence under
section 110 may be brought against an individual in respect of a failure to
prevent that offence.

199.5

A penalty may not be imposed on a person in respect of an act or omission
constituting an offence under section 69 or 109 or paragraph  18  of Schedule
12 if—

199.5.a

proceedings for the offence have been brought against the person but have not
been concluded, or

199.5.b

the person has been convicted of the offence.

199.6

In this section “ penalty ” means a penalty imposed by—

199.6.a

a confirmation decision (see sections 132 (5)(b)  and 137), or

199.6.b

a penalty notice under section 139.

##### Offence of failure to comply with confirmation decision: supplementary

200

200.1

Where a penalty has been imposed on a person by a penalty notice under section
139 in respect of a failure constituting an offence under section 138 (failure
to comply with certain requirements of a confirmation decision), no
proceedings may be brought against the person for that offence.

200.2

A penalty may not be imposed on a person by a penalty notice under section 139
in respect of a failure constituting an offence under section 138 if—

200.2.a

proceedings for the offence have been brought against the person but have not
been concluded, or

200.2.b

the person has been convicted of the offence.

200.3

Where a service restriction order under section 144 or an access restriction
order under section 146 has been made in relation to a regulated service
provided by a person in respect of a failure constituting an offence under
section 138, no proceedings may be brought against the person for that
offence.

##### Defences

201

201.1

Subsection (2) applies where a person relies on a defence under section 109 or
110.

201.2

If evidence is adduced which is sufficient to raise an issue with respect to
the defence, the court must assume that the defence is satisfied unless the
prosecution proves beyond reasonable doubt that it is not.

##### Liability of corporate officers for offences

202

202.1

In this section a “ relevant entity ” means an entity that is—

202.1.a

the provider of a regulated service, and

202.1.b

a legal person under the law under which it is formed.

202.2

If an offence is committed by a relevant entity and it is proved that the
offence—

202.2.a

has been committed with the consent or connivance of an officer of the entity,
or

202.2.b

is attributable to any neglect on the part of an officer of the entity,

the officer (as well as the entity) commits the offence and (subject to
section 199 (1) ) is liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

202.3

In relation to an entity which is a body corporate, “ officer ” means—

202.3.a

a director, manager, associate, secretary or other similar officer, or

202.3.b

a person purporting to act in any such capacity.

In paragraph  (a)  “ director ”, in relation to a body corporate whose affairs
are managed by its members, means a member of the body corporate.

202.4

In relation to a partnership which is not regarded as a body corporate under
the law under which it is formed, “ officer ” means—

202.4.a

a partner, or

202.4.b

a person purporting to act as a partner.

202.5

In this section—

      “ body corporate ” includes an entity incorporated outside the United
Kingdom;           “ offence ” means an offence under this Act, except under
Part 10.

##### Application of offences to providers that are not legal persons

203

203.1

In this section a “ relevant entity ” means an entity that—

203.1.a

is the provider of a regulated service, and

203.1.b

is not a legal person under the law under which it is formed.

203.2

Proceedings for an offence alleged to have been committed by a relevant entity
must be brought against the entity in its own name (and not in that of any of
its officers or members).

203.3

For the purposes of such proceedings—

203.3.a

rules of court relating to the service of documents have effect as if the
entity were a body corporate; and

203.3.b

the following provisions apply as they apply in relation to a body corporate—

203.3.b.i

section 33 of the Criminal Justice Act 1925 and Schedule 3 to the Magistrates’
Courts Act 1980;

203.3.b.ii

section 18 of the  Criminal Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 1945 (c. 15 (N.I.))
and Article 166 of, and Schedule 4 to, the Magistrates’ Courts (Northern
Ireland) Order 1981 ( S.I. 1981/1675 (N.I. 26) ).

203.4

A fine imposed on a relevant entity on its conviction of an offence must be
paid out of the entity’s funds.

203.5

If an offence is committed by a relevant entity and it is proved that the
offence—

203.5.a

has been committed with the consent or connivance of an officer of the entity,
or

203.5.b

is attributable to any neglect on the part of an officer of the entity,

the officer (as well as the entity) commits the offence and (subject to
section 199 (1) ) is liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

203.6

In relation to a partnership, “ officer ” means—

203.6.a

a partner, or

203.6.b

a person purporting to act as a partner.

203.7

In relation to a relevant entity other than a partnership, “ officer ” means—

203.7.a

an officer of the entity or a person concerned in the management or control of
the entity, or

203.7.b

a person purporting to act in such a capacity.

203.8

Subsection  (2)  is not to be read as prejudicing any liability of an officer
under subsection  (5) .

203.9

In this section “ offence ” means an offence under this Act, except under Part
10.

#### Extra-territorial application

##### Extra-territorial application

204

204.1

References in this Act to an internet service, a user-to-user service or a
search service include such a service provided from outside the United Kingdom
(as well as such a service provided from within the United Kingdom).

204.2

The power to require the production of documents by an information notice
includes power to require the production of documents held outside the United
Kingdom.

204.3

The power conferred by section 106 includes power to require the attendance
for interview of an individual who is outside the United Kingdom.

204.4

Sections 133(9) and 150(11) (requirements enforceable in civil proceedings
against a person) apply whether or not the person is in the United Kingdom.

##### Offences: extra-territorial application and jurisdiction

205

205.1

Sections 69, 109 and 112 apply to acts done by a person in the United Kingdom
or elsewhere (information offences).

205.2

Section 110 applies to acts done by an individual in the United Kingdom or
elsewhere (offences by senior managers of providers of regulated services).

205.3

Section 138 applies to acts done by a person in the United Kingdom or
elsewhere (offence of failure to comply with confirmation decision).

205.4

Sections 202 (2)  and 203 (5) , so far as relating to an offence under a
section specified in subsection  (1)  or  (3)  of this section, apply to acts
done by an individual in the United Kingdom or elsewhere (liability of
directors etc of providers of regulated services).

205.5

In the case of an offence under section 69, 109, 110, 112 or 138 which is
committed outside the United Kingdom—

205.5.a

proceedings for the offence may be taken at any place in the United Kingdom,
and

205.5.b

the offence may for all incidental purposes be treated as having been
committed at any such place.

205.6

In the application of subsection  (5)  to Scotland, any such proceedings
against a person may be taken—

205.6.a

in any sheriff court district in which the person is apprehended or is in
custody, or

205.6.b

in such sheriff court district as the Lord Advocate may determine.

205.7

In this section—

      “ act ” includes a failure to act;           “ sheriff court district ”
is to be construed in accordance with the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act
1995 (see section 307(1) of that Act).

#### Payment of sums into Consolidated Fund

##### Payment of sums into the Consolidated Fund

206

206.1

Section 400 of the Communications Act (destination of penalties etc) is
amended as follows.

206.2

In subsection (1), after paragraph (i) insert—

206.2.j

an amount paid to OFCOM in respect of a penalty imposed by them under Chapter
6 of Part 7 of the Online Safety Act 2023;

206.2.k

an amount paid to OFCOM in respect of an additional fee charged under Schedule
10 to the Online Safety Act 2023.

206.3

In subsection (2), after “applies” insert  “(except an amount mentioned in
subsection (1)(j) or (k))” .

206.4

After subsection (3) insert—

206.4.3A

Where OFCOM receive an amount mentioned in subsection (1)(j) or (k), it must
be paid into the Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom.

206.5

In the heading, omit “licence”.

#### Publication by OFCOM

##### Publication by OFCOM

207

Anything required by this Act to be published by OFCOM must be published in
such manner as OFCOM consider appropriate for bringing it to the attention of
the persons who, in their opinion, are likely to be affected by it.

#### Service of notices

##### Service of notices

208

208.1

This section applies in relation to a notice that may or must be given by
OFCOM to a person under any provision of this Act.

208.2

OFCOM may give a notice to a person by—

208.2.a

delivering it by hand to the person,

208.2.b

leaving it at the person’s proper address,

208.2.c

sending it by post to the person at that address, or

208.2.d

sending it by email to the person’s email address.

208.3

A notice to a body corporate may be given to any officer of that body.

208.4

A notice to a partnership may be given to any partner or to a person who has
the control or management of the partnership business.

208.5

A notice to an entity that is not a legal person under the law under which it
is formed (other than a partnership) may be given to any member of the
governing body of the entity.

208.6

In the case of a notice given to a person who is a provider of a regulated
service, the person’s proper address for the purposes of paragraphs  (b)  and
(c)  of subsection  (2) , and section 7 of the Interpretation Act 1978 in its
application to those paragraphs, is any address (within or outside the United
Kingdom) at which OFCOM believe, on reasonable grounds, that the notice will
come to the attention of the person or (where the person is an entity) any
director or other officer of that entity.

208.7

In the case of a notice given to a person other than a provider of a regulated
service, a person’s proper address for the purposes of paragraphs  (b)  and
(c)  of subsection  (2) , and section 7 of the Interpretation Act 1978 in its
application to those paragraphs, is—

208.7.a

in the case of an entity, the address of the entity’s registered or principal
office;

208.7.b

in any other case, the person’s last known address.

208.8

In the case of an entity registered or carrying on business outside the United
Kingdom, or with offices outside the United Kingdom, the reference in
subsection  (7)  to its principal office includes its principal office in the
United Kingdom or, if the entity has no office in the United Kingdom, any
place in the United Kingdom at which OFCOM believe, on reasonable grounds,
that the notice will come to the attention of any director or other officer of
that entity.

208.9

In the case of a notice given to an individual under section 106 (interviews),
the reference in subsection  (7)  to the person’s last known address is to the
individual’s home address or, if the individual is currently connected with a
provider of a regulated service, the address of the provider’s registered or
principal office.

208.10

For the purposes of subsection  (2)(d) , a person’s email address is—

208.10.a

any email address published for the time being by that person as an address
for contacting that person, or

208.10.b

if there is no such published address, any email address by means of which
OFCOM believe, on reasonable grounds, that the notice will come to the
attention of that person or (where that person is an entity) any director or
other officer of that entity.

208.11

A notice sent by email is treated as given 48 hours after it was sent, unless
the contrary is proved.

208.12

In this section—

      “ director ” includes any person occupying the position of a director,
by whatever name called;           “ officer ”, in relation to an entity,
includes a director, a manager, a partner, an associate, a secretary or, where
the affairs of the entity are managed by its members, a member.

#### Repeals and amendments

##### Amendments of Part 4B of the Communications Act

209

Schedule 16 contains amendments of Part 4B of the Communications Act.

##### Repeal of Part 4B of the Communications Act

210

210.1

In the Communications Act, omit Part 4B (video-sharing platform services).

210.2

In the Audiovisual Media Services Regulations 2020 ( S.I. 2020/1062 ), omit
Part 4 (which inserts Part 4B into the Communications Act).

210.3

In this Act, omit—

210.3.a

section 209, and

210.3.b

Schedule 16.

210.4

In the Audiovisual Media Services (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2020 (
S.I. 2020/1536 ), omit regulation 4.

##### Repeal of Part 4B of the Communications Act: transitional provision etc

211

211.1

Schedule 17 contains transitional, transitory and saving provision—

211.1.a

about the application of this Act and Part 4B of the Communications Act during
a period before the repeal of Part 4B of the Communications Act (or, in the
case of Part 3 of Schedule 17, in respect of charging years as mentioned in
that Part);

211.1.b

in connection with the repeal of Part 4B of the Communications Act.

211.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations make transitional, transitory or
saving provision of the kind mentioned in subsection (1)(a) and (b).

211.3

Regulations under subsection (2) may amend or repeal—

211.3.a

Part 3 of Schedule 3;

211.3.b

Schedule 17.

211.4

Regulations under subsection (2) may, in particular, make provision about—

211.4.a

the application of Schedule 17 in relation to a service if the transitional
period in relation to that service ends on a date before the date when section
210 comes into force;

211.4.b

the application of Part 3 of Schedule 17, including further provision about
the calculation of a provider’s non-Part 4B qualifying worldwide revenue for
the purposes of paragraph 19 of that Schedule;

211.4.c

the application of Schedule 10 (recovery of OFCOM’s initial costs), and in
particular how fees chargeable under that Schedule may be calculated, in
respect of charging years to which Part 3 of Schedule 17 relates.

##### Repeals: Digital Economy Act 2017

212

212.1

The Digital Economy Act 2017 is amended as follows.

212.2

Omit—

212.2.a

Part 3 (online pornography), and

212.2.b

section 119(10) and (11) (power to extend that Part to the Channel Islands or
the Isle of Man).

212.3

Omit section 103 (code of practice for providers of online social media
platforms).

##### Offence under the Obscene Publications Act 1959: OFCOM defence

213

213.1

Section 2 of the Obscene Publications Act 1959 (prohibition of publication of
obscene matter) is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)  and  (3) .

213.2

After subsection (5) insert—

213.2.5A

A person shall not be convicted of an offence against this section of the
publication of an obscene article if the person proves that—

213.2.5A.a

at the time of the offence charged, the person was a member of OFCOM, employed
or engaged by OFCOM, or assisting OFCOM in the exercise of any of their online
safety functions (within the meaning of section 235 of the Online Safety Act
2023), and

213.2.5A.b

the person published the article for the purposes of OFCOM’s exercise of any
of those functions.

213.3

In subsection (7)—

213.3.a

the words after “In this section” become paragraph (a), and

213.3.b

at the end of that paragraph, insert

;

213.3.b.b

“ OFCOM ” means the Office of Communications.

##### Offences regarding indecent photographs of children: OFCOM defence

214

######## England and Wales

214.1

Section 1B of the Protection of Children Act 1978 (defence to offence relating
to indecent photographs of children) is amended in accordance with subsections
(2) and (3).

214.2

In subsection (1)—

214.2.a

for “he”, in each place, substitute  “the defendant” ;

214.2.b

for “him”, in each place, substitute  “the defendant” ;

214.2.c

omit “or” at the end of paragraph (b);

214.2.d

at the end of paragraph (c) insert

, or

214.2.d.d

the defendant—

214.2.d.d.i

was at the time of the offence charged a member of OFCOM, employed or engaged
by OFCOM, or assisting OFCOM in the exercise of any of their online safety
functions (within the meaning of section 235 of the Online Safety Act 2023),
and

214.2.d.d.ii

made the photograph or pseudo-photograph for the purposes of OFCOM’s exercise
of any of those functions.

214.3

After subsection (2) insert—

214.3.3

In this section “ OFCOM ” means the Office of Communications.

######## Scotland

214.4

Section 52 of the Civic Government (Scotland) Act 1982 (indecent photographs
of children) is amended in accordance with subsections (5) and (6).

214.5

After subsection (4) insert—

214.5.4A

Where a person is charged with an offence under subsection (1)(a) of making an
indecent photograph or pseudo-photograph of a child, it shall be a defence for
the person to prove that—

214.5.4A.a

at the time of the offence charged, the person was a member of OFCOM, employed
or engaged by OFCOM, or assisting OFCOM in the exercise of any of their online
safety functions (within the meaning of section 235 of the Online Safety Act
2023), and

214.5.4A.b

the person made the photograph or pseudo-photograph for the purposes of
OFCOM’s exercise of any of those functions.

214.6

In subsection (8), after paragraph (d) insert—

214.6.e

“ OFCOM ” means the Office of Communications.

######## Northern Ireland

214.7

Article 3A of the Protection of Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1978 ( S.I.
1978/1047 (N.I. 17) ) (defence to offence relating to indecent photographs of
children) is amended in accordance with subsections (8) and (9).

214.8

In paragraph (1)—

214.8.a

for “he”, in each place, substitute  “the defendant” ;

214.8.b

for “him”, in each place, substitute  “the defendant” ;

214.8.c

omit “or” at the end of sub-paragraph (b);

214.8.d

at the end of sub-paragraph (c) insert

, or

214.8.d.d

the defendant—

214.8.d.d.i

was at the time of the offence charged a member of OFCOM, employed or engaged
by OFCOM, or assisting OFCOM in the exercise of any of their online safety
functions (within the meaning of section 235 of the Online Safety Act 2023),
and

214.8.d.d.ii

made the photograph or pseudo-photograph for the purposes of OFCOM’s exercise
of any of those functions.

214.9

After paragraph (2) insert—

214.9.3

In this Article “ OFCOM ” means the Office of Communications.

#### Power to amend Act to regulate app stores

##### Power to regulate app stores

215

215.1

Subject to the following provisions of this section and section 216, the
Secretary of State may by regulations amend any provision of this Act to make
provision for or in connection with the regulation of internet services that
are app stores.

215.2

Regulations under this section may not be made before OFCOM have published a
report under section 161 (report about use of app stores by children).

215.3

Regulations under this section may be made only if the Secretary of State,
having considered that report, considers that there is a material risk of
significant harm to an appreciable number of children presented by either of
the following, or by both taken together—

215.3.a

harmful content present on app stores, or

215.3.b

harmful content encountered by means of regulated apps available in app
stores.

215.4

Before making regulations under this section the Secretary of State must
consult—

215.4.a

persons who appear to the Secretary of State to represent providers of app
stores,

215.4.b

persons who appear to the Secretary of State to represent the interests of
children (generally or with particular reference to online safety matters),

215.4.c

OFCOM,

215.4.d

the Information Commissioner,

215.4.e

the Children’s Commissioner, and

215.4.f

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

215.5

In this section and in section 216—

      “ amend ” includes repeal and apply (with or without modifications);
“ app ” includes an app for use on any kind of device, and “app store” is to
be read accordingly;           “ content that is harmful to children ” has the
same meaning as in Part 3 (see section 60);           “ harmful content ”
means—         content that is harmful to children,           search content
that is harmful to children, and           regulated provider pornographic
content;                 “ regulated app ” means an app for a regulated
service;           “ regulated provider pornographic content ” has the same
meaning as in Part 5 (see section 79);           “ search content ” has the
same meaning as in Part 3 (see section 57).

215.6

In this section and in section 216 references to children are to children in
the United Kingdom.

##### Power to regulate app stores: supplementary

216

216.1

In this section (except in subsection  (4)(c) ) “ regulations ” means
regulations under section 215(1).

216.2

Provision may be made by regulations only for or in connection with the
purposes of minimising or mitigating the risks of harm to children presented
by harmful content as mentioned in section 215(3)(a) and (b).

216.3

Regulations may not have the effect that any body other than OFCOM is the
regulator in relation to app stores.

216.4

Regulations may—

216.4.a

make provision exempting specified descriptions of app stores from regulation
under this Act;

216.4.b

make provision amending Part 2, section 55 or Schedule 1 in connection with
provision mentioned in paragraph  (a) ;

216.4.c

make provision corresponding or similar to provision which may be made by
regulations under paragraph 1 of Schedule 11 (“threshold conditions”), with
the effect that only app stores which meet specified conditions are regulated
by this Act.

216.5

Regulations may make provision having the effect that app stores provided from
outside the United Kingdom are regulated by this Act (as well as app stores
provided from within the United Kingdom), but, if they do so, must contain
provision corresponding or similar to section 4(5) and (6) (UK links).

216.6

The provision that may be made by regulations includes provision—

216.6.a

imposing on providers of app stores duties corresponding or similar to duties
imposed on providers of Part 3 services by—

216.6.a.i

section 11 or 12 (children’s online safety: user-to-user services) or any of
sections 20 to 23 so far as relating to section 11 or 12;

216.6.a.ii

section 28 or 29 (children’s online safety: search services) or any of
sections 31 to 34 so far as relating to section 28 or 29;

216.6.b

imposing on providers of app stores duties corresponding or similar to duties
imposed on providers of internet services within section 80(2) by section 81
(duties about regulated provider pornographic content);

216.6.c

imposing on providers of app stores requirements corresponding or similar to
requirements imposed on providers of regulated services by, or by OFCOM under,
Part 6 (fees);

216.6.d

imposing on OFCOM duties in relation to app stores corresponding or similar to
duties imposed in relation to Part 3 services by Chapter 3 of Part 7 (OFCOM’s
register of risks, and risk profiles);

216.6.e

conferring on OFCOM functions in relation to app stores corresponding or
similar to the functions that OFCOM have in relation to regulated services
under—

216.6.e.i

Chapter 4 of Part 7 (information), or

216.6.e.ii

Chapter 6 of Part 7 (enforcement), including provisions of that Chapter
conferring power for OFCOM to impose monetary penalties;

216.6.f

about OFCOM’s production of guidance or a code of practice relating to any
aspect of the regulation of app stores that is included in the regulations.

216.7

The provision that may be made by regulations includes provision having the
effect that app stores fall within the definition of “Part 3 service” or “
regulated service ” for the purposes of specified provisions of this Act (with
the effect that specified provisions of this Act which apply in relation to
Part 3 services or regulated services, or to providers of Part 3 services or
regulated services, also apply in relation to app stores or to providers of
app stores).

216.8

Regulations may not amend or make provision corresponding or similar to—

216.8.a

Chapter 2 of Part 4 (reporting CSEA content),

216.8.b

Chapter 5 of Part 7 (notices to deal with terrorism content and CSEA content),
or

216.8.c

Part 10 (communications offences).

216.9

Regulations may make different provision with regard to app stores of
different kinds.

216.10

In this section “ specified ” means specified in regulations.

#### Power to amend Act: alternative dispute resolution

##### Power to impose duty about alternative dispute resolution procedure

217

217.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this Act for or in connection
with the imposition on providers of Category 1 services of an ADR duty.

217.2

An “ADR duty”—

217.2.a

is a duty requiring providers of Category 1 services to arrange for and engage
in an alternative dispute resolution procedure in specified circumstances for
the resolution of disputes about their handling of relevant complaints, and

217.2.b

may include a duty requiring such providers to meet the costs incurred by any
other person in using a dispute resolution procedure which is so arranged.

217.3

Complaints are “ relevant ” for the purposes of subsection (2)(a) if they—

217.3.a

relate to a Category 1 service,

217.3.b

are of a specified kind, and

217.3.c

are made by persons of a specified kind.

217.4

Regulations under this section may not be made before the publication of a
statement by the Secretary of State responding to OFCOM’s report under section
160 (report about reporting and complaints procedures in use by providers of
Part 3 services: see subsection (10) of that section).

217.5

Before making regulations under this section the Secretary of State must
consult—

217.5.a

OFCOM,

217.5.b

the Information Commissioner, and

217.5.c

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

217.6

If the power conferred by subsection (1) is exercised, the first regulations
made under the power must—

217.6.a

require the use of a dispute resolution procedure which is impartial, and

217.6.b

prohibit the use of a dispute resolution procedure which restricts or excludes
the availability of civil proceedings.

217.7

Provision made by regulations under this section may have the effect that the
duties set out in any or all of sections 21, 22 and 23 which apply in relation
to duties imposed by other provisions of Chapter 2 of Part 3 are also to apply
in relation to the ADR duty, and accordingly the regulations may amend—

217.7.a

section 21(6),

217.7.b

the definition of “safety measures and policies” in section 22(8), or

217.7.c

the definition of “relevant duties” in section 23 (11) .

217.8

The provisions of this Act that may be amended by the regulations in
connection with the imposition of the ADR duty include, but are not limited
to, the following provisions (in addition to those mentioned in subsection
(7))—

217.8.a

section 7(5),

217.8.b

section 104 (13)(a) , and

217.8.c

section 131(2).

217.9

If the power conferred by subsection (1) is exercised, the first regulations
made under the power must require OFCOM to—

217.9.a

produce and publish guidance for providers of Category 1 services to assist
them in complying with the ADR duty, and

217.9.b

consult the Secretary of State, the Information Commissioner and such other
persons as OFCOM consider appropriate before producing the guidance.

217.10

Section 204(1) applies for the purposes of the references to Category 1
services in this section.

217.11

In this section “ specified ” means specified in regulations under this
section.

217.12

For the meaning of “Category 1 service”, see section 95 (register of
categories of services).

#### Other powers to amend Act

##### Power to amend section 40

218

218.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend section 40 (fraud etc
offences).

But the power to add an offence to that section is limited by subsections (2)
and (3).

218.2

An offence may be added to section 40 only if the Secretary of State considers
it appropriate to do so because of—

218.2.a

the prevalence on Category 1 services of content (other than regulated user-
generated content) consisting of paid-for advertisements that amount to that
offence, or the prevalence in or via search results of Category 2A services of
paid-for advertisements that amount to that offence,

218.2.b

the risk of harm to individuals in the United Kingdom presented by such
advertisements, and

218.2.c

the severity of that harm.

218.3

An offence may not be added to section 40 if—

218.3.a

the offence concerns—

218.3.a.i

the infringement of intellectual property rights,

218.3.a.ii

the safety or quality of goods (as opposed to what kind of goods they are), or

218.3.a.iii

the performance of a service by a person not qualified to perform it; or

218.3.b

it is an offence under the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations
2008 ( S.I. 2008/1277 ).

218.4

In this section—

218.4.a

“ regulated user-generated content ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 (see
section 55);

218.4.b

the words “in or via search results” are to be construed in accordance with
section 39;

218.4.c

references to advertisements that amount to an offence are to be construed in
accordance with section 59 (see subsections (3), (11) and (12) of that
section).

##### Powers to amend sections 61 and 62

219

219.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend—

219.1.a

section 61 (primary priority content that is harmful to children);

219.1.b

section 62 (priority content that is harmful to children).

But the power to add a kind of content is limited by subsections (2) to (4).

219.2

A kind of content may be added to section 61 only if the Secretary of State
considers that, in relation to Part 3 services—

219.2.a

there is a material risk of significant harm to an appreciable number of
children presented by content of that kind that is regulated user-generated
content or search content, and

219.2.b

it is appropriate for the duties set out in sections 12(3)(a) and 29(3)(a)
(duty in relation to children of all ages) to apply in relation to content of
that kind.

219.3

A kind of content may be added to section 62 only if the Secretary of State
considers that, in relation to Part 3 services, there is a material risk of
significant harm to an appreciable number of children presented by content of
that kind that is regulated user-generated content or search content.

219.4

A kind of content may not be added to section 61 or 62 if the risk of harm
presented by content of that kind flows from—

219.4.a

the content’s potential financial impact,

219.4.b

the safety or quality of goods featured in the content, or

219.4.c

the way in which a service featured in the content may be performed (for
example, in the case of the performance of a service by a person not qualified
to perform it).

219.5

The Secretary of State must consult OFCOM before making regulations under this
section.

219.6

In this section references to children are to children in the United Kingdom.

219.7

In this section—

“ regulated user-generated content ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 (see
section 55); “ search content ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 (see section
57).

##### Powers to amend or repeal provisions relating to exempt content or services

220

220.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

220.1.a

amend section 55(5), or

220.1.b

repeal section 55 (2)(d)  and  (5) , and make a consequential amendment of
sections 3(6), 5(2)(a) and 55 (2)(f) ,

if the Secretary of State considers that it is appropriate to do so because of
the risk of harm to individuals in the United Kingdom presented by one-to-one
live aural communications.

220.2

Subject to subsection (3), the Secretary of State may by regulations amend
section 55(2)(e),  (6)  or  (7)  if the Secretary of State considers that it
is appropriate to do so because of the risk of harm to individuals in the
United Kingdom presented by comments and reviews on provider content.

220.3

Regulations under subsection (2) may not have the effect that comments and
reviews on provider content present on a service of which the provider is a
recognised news publisher become regulated user-generated content within the
meaning of Part 3.

220.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend Part 1 of Schedule 1 to
provide for a further description of user-to-user service or search service to
be exempt, if the Secretary of State considers that the risk of harm to
individuals in the United Kingdom presented by a service of that description
is low.

220.5

Regulations under subsection  (4)  may amend sections 3, 5 and 55 and Schedule
2 in connection with the amendment of Part 1 of Schedule 1.

220.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend Schedule 9 to provide for a
further description of internet service to be included, if the Secretary of
State considers that the risk of harm to children in the United Kingdom
presented by regulated provider pornographic content published or displayed on
a service of that description is low.

220.7

If the condition in subsection  (8)  is met, the Secretary of State may by
regulations amend or repeal either of the following—

220.7.a

paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 (services offering only one-to-one live aural
communications);

220.7.b

any provision of that Schedule added in exercise of the power conferred by
subsection  (4) .

220.8

The condition is that the Secretary of State considers that it is appropriate
to amend or repeal the provision in question (as the case may be) because of
the risk of harm to individuals in the United Kingdom presented by a service
of the description in question.

220.9

Subject to subsection (10), the Secretary of State may by regulations amend
paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 (limited functionality services) if the Secretary of
State considers that it is appropriate because of the risk of harm to
individuals in the United Kingdom presented by a service described in that
paragraph.

220.10

Regulations under subsection (9) may not have the effect that a service
described in paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 of which the provider is a recognised
news publisher is no longer exempt under that paragraph.

220.11

Regulations under subsection  (7)  may amend or repeal a provision of Schedule
2 in connection with the amendment or repeal of a provision of Part 1 of
Schedule 1.

220.12

Regulations under subsection  (7)(b)  may amend or repeal a provision of
sections 3, 5 and 55 in connection with the amendment or repeal of a provision
of Part 1 of Schedule 1.

220.13

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend or repeal any provision of
Schedule 9 added in exercise of the power conferred by subsection  (6) , if
the Secretary of State considers that it is appropriate to do so because of
the risk of harm to children in the United Kingdom presented by regulated
provider pornographic content published or displayed on a service of that
description.

220.14

In this section—

      “comments and reviews on provider content” and “one-to-one live aural
communications” have the meaning given by section 55;           “ recognised
news publisher ” has the meaning given by section 56;           “ regulated
provider pornographic content ” and “ published or displayed ” have the same
meaning as in Part 5 (see section 79).

##### Powers to amend Part 2 of Schedule 1

221

######## England

221.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the part of the list in Part 2
of Schedule 1 which relates to England—

221.1.a

if there has been an amendment or repeal of legislation, or of a provision of
legislation, by reference to which a description of education or childcare is
framed;

221.1.b

to add a further description of education or childcare, if the Secretary of
State considers that it is appropriate to do so because of the application of
enactments other than this Act, or guidance or requirements (however referred
to) produced under enactments other than this Act, to persons providing
education or childcare of that description;

221.1.c

to omit a description of education or childcare, if the Secretary of State
considers that it is appropriate to do so because of the risk of harm to
individuals in England presented by services provided by persons providing
education or childcare of that description which are provided for the purposes
of such education or childcare (other than a service described in paragraph 7
of Schedule 1).

221.2

In subsection  (1)(b) , “ enactment ” includes an enactment contained in
subordinate legislation (within the meaning of the Interpretation Act 1978).

######## Scotland

221.3

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations amend the part of the list in Part 2
of Schedule 1 which relates to Scotland—

221.3.a

if there has been an amendment or repeal of legislation, or of a provision of
legislation, by reference to which a description of education or childcare is
framed;

221.3.b

to add a further description of education or childcare, if the Scottish
Ministers consider that it is appropriate to do so because of the application
of enactments other than this Act, or guidance or requirements (however
referred to) produced under enactments other than this Act, to persons
providing education or childcare of that description;

221.3.c

to omit a description of education or childcare, if the Scottish Ministers
consider that it is appropriate to do so because of the risk of harm to
individuals in Scotland presented by services provided by persons providing
education or childcare of that description which are provided for the purposes
of such education or childcare (other than a service described in paragraph 7
of Schedule 1).

221.4

In subsection  (3)(b) , “ enactment ” includes an enactment contained in, or
in an instrument made under, an Act of the Scottish Parliament.

######## Wales

221.5

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations made by statutory instrument amend the
part of the list in Part 2 of Schedule 1 which relates to Wales—

221.5.a

if there has been an amendment or repeal of legislation, or of a provision of
legislation, by reference to which a description of education or childcare is
framed;

221.5.b

to add a further description of education or childcare, if the Welsh Ministers
consider that it is appropriate to do so because of the application of
enactments other than this Act, or guidance or requirements (however referred
to) produced under enactments other than this Act, to persons providing
education or childcare of that description;

221.5.c

to omit a description of education or childcare, if the Welsh Ministers
consider that it is appropriate to do so because of the risk of harm to
individuals in Wales presented by services provided by persons providing
education or childcare of that description which are provided for the purposes
of such education or childcare (other than a service described in paragraph 7
of Schedule 1).

221.6

In subsection  (5)(b) , “ enactment ” includes an enactment contained in, or
in an instrument made under, a Measure or Act of Senedd Cymru.

######## Northern Ireland

221.7

The relevant Department may by regulations amend the part of the list in Part
2 of Schedule 1 which relates to Northern Ireland—

221.7.a

if there has been an amendment or repeal of legislation, or of a provision of
legislation, by reference to which a description of education or childcare is
framed;

221.7.b

to add a further description of education or childcare, if the relevant
Department considers that it is appropriate to do so because of the
application of enactments other than this Act, or guidance or requirements
(however referred to) produced under enactments other than this Act, to
persons providing education or childcare of that description;

221.7.c

to omit a description of education or childcare, if the relevant Department
considers that it is appropriate to do so because of the risk of harm to
individuals in Northern Ireland presented by services provided by persons
providing education or childcare of that description which are provided for
the purposes of such education or childcare (other than a service described in
paragraph 7 of Schedule 1).

221.8

In subsection  (7) , “ the relevant Department ” means—

221.8.a

where the amendment relates to childcare, primary education or secondary
education, the Department of Education in Northern Ireland;

221.8.b

where the amendment relates to further education or higher education, the
Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland with the concurrence of the
Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs in Northern Ireland,
or the Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs in Northern
Ireland with the concurrence of the Department for the Economy in Northern
Ireland;

221.8.c

where the amendment relates to education in agriculture and related subjects,
the Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs in Northern
Ireland.

221.9

In subsection  (7)(b) , “ enactment ” includes an enactment contained in, or
in an instrument made under, Northern Ireland legislation.

######## Interpretation

221.10

In this section, the following terms have the same meaning as in Schedule 1—

“childcare”; “education”; “education in agriculture and related subjects”;
“further education”; “higher education”; “primary education”; “secondary
education”.

##### Powers to amend Schedules 5, 6 and 7

222

222.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend—

222.1.a

Schedule 5 (terrorism offences);

222.1.b

Part 1 of Schedule 6 (child sexual exploitation and abuse offences).

222.2

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations amend Part 2 of Schedule 6.

222.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend Schedule 7 (priority
offences).

But an offence may be added to that Schedule only on the grounds in subsection
(4) or (5), and subsection (6) limits the power to add an offence.

222.4

The first ground for adding an offence to Schedule 7 is that the Secretary of
State considers it appropriate to do so because of—

222.4.a

the prevalence on regulated user-to-user services of regulated user-generated
content that amounts to that offence, or the prevalence on regulated search
services and combined services of search content that amounts to that offence,

222.4.b

the risk of harm to individuals in the United Kingdom presented by regulated
user-generated content or search content that amounts to that offence, and

222.4.c

the severity of that harm.

222.5

The second ground for adding an offence to Schedule 7 is that the Secretary of
State considers it appropriate to do so because of—

222.5.a

the prevalence of the use of regulated user-to-user services for the
commission or facilitation of that offence,

222.5.b

the risk of harm to individuals in the United Kingdom presented by the use of
such services for the commission or facilitation of that offence, and

222.5.c

the severity of that harm.

222.6

An offence may not be added to Schedule 7 if—

222.6.a

the offence concerns—

222.6.a.i

the infringement of intellectual property rights,

222.6.a.ii

the safety or quality of goods (as opposed to what kind of goods they are), or

222.6.a.iii

the performance of a service by a person not qualified to perform it; or

222.6.b

it is an offence under the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations
2008 ( S.I. 2008/1277 ).

222.7

The Secretary of State must consult the Scottish Ministers before making
regulations under subsection (3) which—

222.7.a

add an offence that extends only to Scotland, or

222.7.b

amend or remove an entry specifying an offence that extends only to Scotland.

222.8

The Secretary of State must consult the Department of Justice in Northern
Ireland before making regulations under subsection (3) which—

222.8.a

add an offence that extends only to Northern Ireland, or

222.8.b

amend or remove an entry specifying an offence that extends only to Northern
Ireland.

222.9

In this section—

222.9.a

“ regulated user-generated content ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 (see
section 55);

222.9.b

“ search content ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 (see section 57);

222.9.c

references to content that amounts to an offence are to be construed in
accordance with section 59 (see subsections (3), (11) and (12) of that
section).

#### Regulations

##### Power to make consequential provision

223

223.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision that is consequential
on this Act or regulations under this Act.

223.2

The regulations may—

223.2.a

amend or repeal provision made by the Communications Act;

223.2.b

amend or revoke provision made under that Act.

223.3

The regulations may make transitional, transitory or saving provision.

##### Regulations: general

224

224.1

Regulations under this Act may make different provision for different purposes
and may, in particular—

224.1.a

make different provision with regard to—

224.1.a.i

user-to-user services,

224.1.a.ii

search services, and

224.1.a.iii

internet services, other than regulated user-to-user services or regulated
search services, that are within section 80 (2) ;

224.1.b

make different provision with regard to user-to-user services of different
kinds;

224.1.c

make different provision with regard to search services of different kinds;

224.1.d

make different provision with regard to different kinds of services mentioned
in paragraph  (a)(iii) ;

224.1.e

make different provision with regard to different kinds of internet services
within section 80 (2) .

224.2

A power to make regulations under this Act includes power to make
supplementary, incidental, transitional, transitory or saving provision.

This subsection does not apply to regulations under section 223 (consequential
provision).

224.3

Any power of the Secretary of State or OFCOM under this Act to make
regulations is exercisable by statutory instrument.

224.4

The Statutory Instruments Act 1946 applies in relation to OFCOM’s powers to
make regulations under this Act as if OFCOM were a Minister of the Crown.

224.5

The Documentary Evidence Act 1868 (proof of orders and regulations etc) has
effect as if—

224.5.a

OFCOM were included in the first column of the Schedule to that Act;

224.5.b

OFCOM and persons authorised to act on their behalf were mentioned in the
second column of that Schedule.

224.6

This section does not apply to regulations under section 240 (commencement and
transitional provision).

##### Parliamentary procedure for regulations

225

225.1

A statutory instrument containing (whether alone or with other provision)—

225.1.a

regulations under section 77 (12) ,

225.1.b

regulations under section 85(1),

225.1.c

regulations under section 114 (2) ,

225.1.d

regulations under section 169 (3) ,

225.1.e

regulations under section 211(2),

225.1.f

regulations under section 215(1),

225.1.g

regulations under section 217(1),

225.1.h

regulations under section 218(1),

225.1.i

regulations under section 220(1), (2), (4), (6), (7), (9) or (13),

225.1.j

regulations under section 221(1),

225.1.k

regulations under section 222 (1)  or  (3) ,

225.1.l

regulations under section 223 that amend or repeal provision made by the
Communications Act,

225.1.m

regulations under paragraph  7  of Schedule 4,

225.1.n

regulations under paragraph  38  of Schedule 8,

225.1.o

regulations under paragraph 7 of Schedule 10, or

225.1.p

regulations under paragraph 5(9) of Schedule 13,

may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before, and
approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament.

225.2

A statutory instrument containing regulations under section 219(1) may not be
made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before, and approved by a
resolution of, each House of Parliament.

225.3

But a statutory instrument mentioned in subsection  (2)  may be made without a
draft of the instrument being laid before, and approved by a resolution of,
each House of Parliament if it contains a declaration that the Secretary of
State is of the opinion that, because of urgency, it is necessary to make the
regulations without a draft being so laid and approved.

225.4

After an instrument is made in accordance with subsection  (3) , it must be
laid before Parliament.

225.5

Regulations contained in an instrument made in accordance with subsection  (3)
cease to have effect at the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the
day on which the instrument is made unless, during that period, the instrument
is approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

225.6

In calculating the period of 28 days, no account is to be taken of any whole
days that fall within a period during which—

225.6.a

Parliament is dissolved or prorogued, or

225.6.b

either House of Parliament is adjourned for more than 4 days.

225.7

If regulations cease to have effect as a result of subsection  (5) , that does
not—

225.7.a

affect the validity of anything previously done under or by virtue of the
regulations, or

225.7.b

prevent the making of new regulations.

225.8

A statutory instrument containing the first regulations under paragraph 1(1)
of Schedule 11 (whether alone or with regulations under paragraph 1(2) or (3)
of that Schedule) may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been
laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament.

225.9

Any other statutory instrument containing regulations under paragraph 1(1) of
Schedule 11 is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either
House of Parliament.

225.10

A statutory instrument containing—

225.10.a

regulations under section 67 (1) ,

225.10.b

regulations under section 85 (2) ,

225.10.c

regulations under section 86,

225.10.d

regulations under section 170(1),

225.10.e

regulations under section 223 that do not amend or repeal provision made by
the Communications Act,

225.10.f

regulations under paragraph 8(1) of Schedule 3, or

225.10.g

regulations under paragraph  1(2)  or  (3)  of Schedule 11,

is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

225.11

As soon as a draft of a statutory instrument containing regulations under
section 85 (1)  or paragraph 5(9) of Schedule 13 (whether alone or with
provision under section 85 (2) ) is ready for laying before Parliament, OFCOM
must send the draft to the Secretary of State, and the Secretary of State must
lay the draft before Parliament.

225.12

Immediately after making a statutory instrument containing only regulations
under section 85 (2) , OFCOM must send the instrument to the Secretary of
State, and the Secretary of State must lay it before Parliament.

225.13

Regulations made by the Scottish Ministers under—

225.13.a

section 221 (3) , and

225.13.b

section 222 (2) ,

are subject to the affirmative procedure (see section 29 of the Interpretation
and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act  2010 (asp 10) ).

225.14

A statutory instrument containing regulations under section 221 (5)  may not
be made by the Welsh Ministers unless a draft of the instrument has been laid
before and approved by a resolution of Senedd Cymru.

225.15

The power of the relevant Department to make regulations under section 221 (7)
is exercisable by statutory rule for the purposes of the Statutory Rules
(Northern Ireland) Order 1979 ( S.I. 1979/1573 (N.I. 12) ).

225.16

Regulations may not be made by the relevant Department under section 221 (7)
unless a draft of the regulations has been laid before and approved by a
resolution of the Northern Ireland Assembly.

225.17

In subsections  (15)  and  (16) , “ the relevant Department ” has the same
meaning as in section 221 (7)  (see subsection  (8)  of that section).

### Interpretation and final provisions

#### Interpretation

##### “Provider” of internet service

226

226.1

This section applies to determine who is the “provider” of an internet service
for the purposes of this Act.

######## User-to-user services (other than combined services)

226.2

The provider of a user-to-user service is to be treated as being the entity
that has control over who can use the user-to-user part of the service (and
that entity alone).

226.3

If no entity has control over who can use the user-to-user part of a user-to-
user service, but an individual or individuals have control over who can use
that part, the provider of the service is to be treated as being that
individual or those individuals.

######## Search services

226.4

The provider of a search service is to be treated as being the entity that has
control over the operations of the search engine (and that entity alone).

226.5

If no entity has control over the operations of the search engine, but an
individual or individuals have control over those operations, the provider of
the search service is to be treated as being that individual or those
individuals.

######## Combined services

226.6

The provider of a combined service is to be treated as being the entity that
has control over both—

226.6.a

who can use the user-to-user part of the service, and

226.6.b

the operations of the search engine,

(and that entity alone).

226.7

If no entity has control over the matters mentioned in paragraphs (a) and (b)
of subsection  (6) , but an individual or individuals have control over both
those matters, the provider of the combined service is to be treated as being
that individual or those individuals.

######## Internet services other than user-to-user services or search services

226.8

The provider of an internet service, other than a user-to-user service or a
search service, is to be treated as being the entity that has control over
which content is published or displayed on the service.

226.9

If no entity has control over which content is published or displayed on such
an internet service, but an individual or individuals have control over which
content is published or displayed, the provider of the service is to be
treated as being that individual or those individuals.

######## Machine-generated services

226.10

The provider of an internet service that is generated by a machine is to be
treated as being the entity that controls the machine (and that entity alone).

226.11

If no entity controls the machine, but an individual or individuals control
it, the provider of the internet service is to be treated as being that
individual or those individuals.

######## Interpretation

226.12

A person who provides an access facility in relation to a user-to-user
service, within the meaning of section 146, is not to be regarded as a person
who has control over who can use the user-to-user part of the service for the
purposes of this section.

226.13

In this section “ operations of the search engine ” means operations which—

226.13.a

enable users of a search service or a combined service to make search
requests, and

226.13.b

generate responses to those requests.

226.14

In this section “ published or displayed ” is to be construed in accordance
with section 79 (6) .

226.15

For the purposes of subsections  (8)  and  (9) , a person who makes available
on a service an automated tool or algorithm by means of which content is
generated is to be regarded as having control over content so generated.

##### “User”, “United Kingdom user” and “interested person”

227

227.1

For the purposes of this Act a user is a “United Kingdom user” of a service
if—

227.1.a

where the user is an individual, the individual is in the United Kingdom;

227.1.b

where the user is an entity, the entity is incorporated or formed under the
law of any part of the United Kingdom.

227.2

For the purposes of references in this Act to a user of a service it does not
matter whether a person is registered to use a service.

227.3

References in this Act to a user of a service do not include references to any
of the following when acting in the course of the provider’s business—

227.3.a

where the provider of the service is an individual or individuals, that
individual or those individuals;

227.3.b

where the provider is an entity, officers of the entity;

227.3.c

persons who work for the provider (including as employees or volunteers);

227.3.d

any other person providing a business service to the provider such as a
contractor, consultant or auditor.

227.4

In subsection  (3)  “ acting in the course of the provider’s business ” means
(as the case may be)—

227.4.a

acting in the course of the provider’s business of providing the service, or

227.4.b

acting in the course of a business, trade, profession or other concern—

227.4.b.i

carried on (whether or not for profit) by the provider of the service, and

227.4.b.ii

for the purposes of which the service is provided.

227.5

In subsections  (1)  to  (4)  “ service ” (except in the term “business
service”) means internet service, user-to-user service or search service.

227.6

In subsection  (3)  “ officer ” includes a director, manager, partner,
associate, secretary or other similar officer.

227.7

In this Act “ interested person ”, in relation to a search service or a
combined service, means a person that is responsible for a website or database
capable of being searched by the search engine, provided that—

227.7.a

in the case of an individual, the individual is in the United Kingdom;

227.7.b

in the case of an entity, the entity is incorporated or formed under the law
of any part of the United Kingdom.

##### “Internet service”

228

228.1

In this Act “ internet service ” means a service that is made available by
means of the internet.

228.2

For the purposes of subsection  (1)  a service is “made available by means of
the internet” even where it is made available by means of a combination of—

228.2.a

the internet, and

228.2.b

an electronic communications service.

228.3

“ Electronic communications service ” has the same meaning as in the
Communications Act (see section 32(2) of that Act).

##### “Search engine”

229

229.1

In this Act “search engine”—

229.1.a

includes a service or functionality which enables a person to search some
websites or databases (as well as a service or functionality which enables a
person to search (in principle) all websites or databases);

229.1.b

does not include a service which enables a person to search just one website
or database.

229.2

For the purposes of this Act, a search engine is not to be taken to be
“included” in an internet service or a user-to-user service if the search
engine is controlled by a person who does not control other parts of the
service.

##### “Age verification” and “age estimation”

230

230.1

This section applies for the purposes of this Act.

230.2

“ Age verification ” means any measure designed to verify the exact age of
users of a regulated service.

230.3

“ Age estimation ” means any measure designed to estimate the age or age-range
of users of a regulated service.

230.4

A measure which requires a user to self-declare their age (without more) is
not to be regarded as age verification or age estimation.

##### “Proactive technology”

231

231.1

In this Act “ proactive technology ” means—

231.1.a

content identification technology,

231.1.b

user profiling technology, or

231.1.c

behaviour identification technology,

but this is subject to subsections  (3)  and  (7) .

231.2

“ Content identification technology ” means technology, such as algorithms,
keyword matching, image matching or image classification, which analyses
content to assess whether it is content of a particular kind (for example,
illegal content).

231.3

But content identification technology is not to be regarded as proactive
technology if it is used in response to a report from a user or other person
about particular content.

231.4

“ User profiling technology ” means technology which analyses (any or all of)—

231.4.a

relevant content,

231.4.b

user data, or

231.4.c

metadata relating to relevant content or user data,

for the purposes of building a profile of a user to assess characteristics
such as age.

231.5

Technology which—

231.5.a

analyses data specifically provided by a user for the purposes of the provider
verifying or estimating the user’s age in order to decide whether to allow the
user to access a service (or part of a service) or particular content, and

231.5.b

does not analyse any other data or content,

is not to be regarded as user profiling technology.

231.6

“ Behaviour identification technology ” means technology which analyses (any
or all of)—

231.6.a

relevant content,

231.6.b

user data, or

231.6.c

metadata relating to relevant content or user data,

to assess a user’s online behaviour or patterns of online behaviour (for
example, to assess whether a user may be involved in, or be the victim of,
illegal activity).

231.7

But behaviour identification technology is not to be regarded as proactive
technology if it is used in response to concerns identified by another person
or an automated tool about a particular user.

231.8

“ Relevant content ” means—

231.8.a

in relation to a user-to-user service, content that is user-generated content
in relation to the service;

231.8.b

in relation to a search service, the content of websites and databases capable
of being searched by the search engine;

231.8.c

in relation to an internet service within section 80(2), content that is
provider pornographic content in relation to the service.

231.9

“ User data ” means—

231.9.a

data provided by users, including personal data (for example, data provided
when a user sets up an account), and

231.9.b

data created, compiled or obtained by providers of regulated services and
relating to users (for example, data relating to when or where users access a
service or how they use it).

231.10

References in this Act to proactive technology include content identification
technology, user profiling technology or behaviour identification technology
which utilises artificial intelligence or machine learning.

231.11

Accredited technology that may be required to be used in relation to the
detection of terrorism content or CSEA content (or both) by a notice under
section 121 (1)  is an example of content identification technology.

231.12

The reference in subsection  (8)(b)  to a search service includes a reference
to the search engine of a combined service.

231.13

In this section—

      “accredited” technology has the same meaning as in Chapter 5 of Part 7
(see section 125 (12) );           “ illegal content ”, “ terrorism content ”
and “ CSEA content ” have the same meaning as in Part 3 (see section 59);
“ user-generated content ” has the meaning given by section 55 (see
subsections (3) and (4) of that section).

##### Content communicated “publicly” or “privately”

232

232.1

This section specifies factors which OFCOM must, in particular, consider when
deciding whether content is communicated “publicly” or “privately” by means of
a user-to-user service for the purposes of—

232.1.a

section 121 (notice to deal with terrorism content),

232.1.b

section 136 (requirement to use proactive technology), or

232.1.c

paragraph 13 (4)  of Schedule 4 (recommendation of proactive technology in
codes of practice).

232.2

The factors are—

232.2.a

the number of individuals in the United Kingdom who are able to access the
content by means of the service;

232.2.b

any restrictions on who may access the content by means of the service (for
example, a requirement for approval or permission from a user, or the
provider, of the service);

232.2.c

the ease with which the content may be forwarded to or shared with—

232.2.c.i

users of the service other than those who originally encounter it, or

232.2.c.ii

users of another internet service.

232.3

The following factors do not count as restrictions on access—

232.3.a

a requirement to log in to or register with a service (or part of a service);

232.3.b

a requirement to make a payment or take out a subscription in order to access
a service (or part of a service) or to access particular content;

232.3.c

inability to access a service (or part of a service) or to access particular
content except by using particular technology or a particular kind of device
(as long as that technology or device is generally available to the public).

##### “Functionality”

233

233.1

In this Act “ functionality ”, in relation to a user-to-user service, includes
any feature that enables interactions of any description between users of the
service by means of the service, and includes any feature enabling a user to
do anything listed in subsection  (2) .

233.2

The things are—

233.2.a

creating a user profile, including an anonymous or pseudonymous profile;

233.2.b

searching within the service for user-generated content or other users of the
service;

233.2.c

forwarding content to, or sharing content with, other users of the service;

233.2.d

sharing content on other internet services;

233.2.e

sending direct messages to or speaking to other users of the service, or
interacting with them in another way (for example by playing a game);

233.2.f

expressing a view on content, including, for example, by—

233.2.f.i

applying a “like” or “dislike” button or other button of that nature,

233.2.f.ii

applying an emoji or symbol of any kind,

233.2.f.iii

engaging in yes/no voting, or

233.2.f.iv

rating or scoring content in any way (including giving star or numerical
ratings);

233.2.g

sharing current or historic location information with other users of the
service, recording a user’s movements, or identifying which other users of the
service are nearby;

233.2.h

following or subscribing to particular kinds of content or particular users of
the service;

233.2.i

creating lists, collections, archives or directories of content or users of
the service;

233.2.j

tagging or labelling content present on the service;

233.2.k

uploading content relating to goods or services;

233.2.l

applying or changing settings on the service which affect the presentation of
user-generated content on the service;

233.2.m

accessing other internet services through content present on the service (for
example through hyperlinks).

233.3

In this Act “ functionality ”, in relation to a search service, includes (in
particular)—

233.3.a

a feature that enables users to search websites or databases;

233.3.b

a feature that makes suggestions relating to users’ search requests
(predictive search functionality).

233.4

In this section “ user-generated content ” has the meaning given by section 55
(see subsections  (3)  and  (4)  of that section).

##### “Harm” etc

234

234.1

This section applies for the purposes of this Act, apart from Part 10
(communications offences).

234.2

“ Harm ” means physical or psychological harm.

234.3

References to harm presented by content, and any other references to harm in
relation to content, include references to harm arising or that may arise from
any one or combination of the following—

234.3.a

the nature of the content;

234.3.b

the fact of its dissemination;

234.3.c

the manner of its dissemination.

234.4

References to harm presented by content, and any other references to harm in
relation to content, include references to cumulative harm arising or that may
arise in the following circumstances—

234.4.a

where content, or content of a particular kind, is repeatedly encountered by
an individual (including, but not limited to, where content, or a kind of
content, is sent to an individual by one user or by different users or
encountered as a result of algorithms used by, or functionalities of, a
service);

234.4.b

where content of a particular kind is encountered by an individual in
combination with content of a different kind (including, but not limited to,
where a kind of content is sent to an individual by one user or by different
users or encountered as a result of algorithms used by, or functionalities of,
a service).

234.5

References to harm presented by content, and any other references to harm in
relation to content, include references to harm arising or that may arise in
the following circumstances—

234.5.a

where, as a result of the content, individuals act in a way that results in
harm to themselves or that increases the likelihood of harm to themselves;

234.5.b

where, as a result of the content, individuals do or say something to another
individual that results in harm to that other individual or that increases the
likelihood of such harm (including, but not limited to, where individuals act
in such a way as a result of content that is related to that other
individual’s characteristics or membership of a group).

234.6

References to a risk of harm in relation to functionalities, and references to
the risk of functionalities facilitating users encountering particular kinds
of content (however expressed), include references to risks arising or that
may arise due to multiple functionalities which, used in combination, increase
the likelihood of harm arising (for example, as mentioned in subsection  (4)
).

234.7

References to a risk of harm, or to potential harm, are to be read in the same
way as references to harm.

234.8

In contexts where harm (or a risk of harm or potential harm) relates to
children, subsections  (4)  to  (5)  are to be read as if they referred to
children instead of individuals.

##### “Online safety functions” and “online safety matters”

235

235.1

In this Act references to OFCOM’s “online safety functions”—

235.1.a

are references to—

235.1.a.i

the functions that OFCOM have under this Act,

235.1.a.ii

the functions that OFCOM have under the provisions of the Communications Act
listed in subsection  (2) , so far as those functions relate to regulated
services or Part 3 services (as the case may be), and

235.1.a.iii

the functions that OFCOM have under section 3 of the Communications Act
(general duties), so far as duties under that section relate to a function
which is an online safety function by reason of sub-paragraph  (i)  or  (ii) ;

235.1.b

include references to OFCOM’s power to do anything appearing to them to be
incidental or conducive to the carrying out of any of their functions within
paragraph  (a)(i)  or  (ii)  (see section 1(3) of the Communications Act).

235.2

These are the provisions of the Communications Act referred to in subsection
(1)(a)(ii) —

235.2.a

section 6 (duties to review regulatory burdens);

235.2.b

section 7 (duty to carry out impact assessments);

235.2.c

section 8 (duty to publish and meet promptness standards);

235.2.d

sections 11 and 11A (duties to promote media literacy);

235.2.e

sections 12 and 13 (Content Board);

235.2.f

section 14(6)(a) (research about media literacy);

235.2.g

section 14(6B) (research about users’ experience of regulated services);

235.2.h

section 16 (consumer consultation);

235.2.i

section 20 (advisory committees for different parts of the United Kingdom);

235.2.j

section 21 (advisory committee on elderly and disabled persons);

235.2.k

section 22 (representation on international and other bodies);

235.2.l

section 26 (publication of information and advice for consumers etc).

235.3

References to OFCOM’s “online safety functions” also include references to
OFCOM’s duty to comply with any of the following, so far as relating to the
use of a regulated service by a person who has died—

235.3.a

a notice from a senior coroner under paragraph 1(2) of Schedule 5 to the
Coroners and Justice Act 2009 in connection with an investigation into a
person’s death;

235.3.b

a request for information in connection with the investigation of a procurator
fiscal into, or an inquiry held or to be held in relation to, a person’s
death;

235.3.c

a notice from a coroner under section 17A(2) of the  Coroners Act (Northern
Ireland) 1959 (c. 15 (N.I.))  in connection with—

235.3.c.i

an investigation to determine whether an inquest into a person’s death is
necessary, or

235.3.c.ii

an inquest in relation to a person’s death.

235.4

In this Act “ online safety matters ” means the matters to which OFCOM’s
online safety functions relate.

235.5

In subsection  (3)(b)  “ inquiry ” means an inquiry held, or to be held, under
the Inquiries into Fatal Accidents and Sudden Deaths etc. (Scotland) Act  2016
(asp 2) .

##### Interpretation: general

236

236.1

In this Act—

      “ adult ” means a person aged 18 or over;           “ audit notice ”
means a notice given under paragraph 4 of Schedule 12;           “ automated
tool ” includes bot;           “capacity”: any reference to the capacity of a
provider of a regulated service is to—         the financial resources of the
provider, and           the level of technical expertise which is available to
the provider, or which it is reasonable to expect would be available to the
provider given its size and financial resources;                 “ child ”
means a person under the age of 18;           “ the Communications Act ” means
the Communications Act 2003;           “ confirmation decision ” means a
notice given under section 132;           “ content ” means anything
communicated by means of an internet service, whether publicly or privately,
including written material or messages, oral communications, photographs,
videos, visual images, music and data of any description;           “ the
Convention ” has the meaning given by section 21(1) of the Human Rights Act
1998;           “ country ” includes territory;           “ document ” means
anything in which information (in whatever form) is recorded;           “
encounter ”, in relation to content, means read, view, hear or otherwise
experience content;           “ entity ” means a body or association of
persons or an organisation, regardless of whether the body, association or
organisation is—         formed under the law of any part of the United
Kingdom or of a country outside the United Kingdom, or           a legal
person under the law under which it is formed;                 “freedom of
expression”: any reference to freedom of expression (except in sections 41
(6)(f)  and 78 (2)(d) ) is to the freedom to receive and impart ideas,
opinions or information (referred to in Article 10(1) of the Convention) by
means of speech, writing or images;           “ identifying content ” means
content the function of which is to identify a user of an internet service
(for example, a user name or profile picture);           “ information notice
” means a notice given under section 100 (1)  or 101(1);           “measure”:
any reference to a measure includes a reference to any system or process
relevant to the operation of an internet service or any step or action which
may be taken by a provider of an internet service to comply with duties or
requirements under this Act;           “ notice ” means notice in writing;
“ notify ” means notify in writing, and “ notification ” is to be construed
accordingly;           “ OFCOM ” means the Office of Communications;
“paid-for advertisement”: an advertisement is a “ paid-for advertisement ” in
relation to an internet service if—         the provider of the service
receives any consideration (monetary or non-monetary) for the advertisement
(whether directly from the advertiser or indirectly from another person), and
the placement of the advertisement is determined by systems or processes that
are agreed between the parties entering into the contract relating to the
advertisement;                 “ person ” includes (in addition to an
individual and a body of persons corporate or unincorporate) any organisation
or association of persons;           “ personal data ” has the meaning given
by section 3(2) of the Data Protection Act 2018;           “ pornographic
content ” means content of such a nature that it is reasonable to assume that
it was produced solely or principally for the purpose of sexual arousal;
“ processing ” has the meaning given by section 3(4) of the Data Protection
Act 2018;           “ provisional notice of contravention ” means a notice
given under section 130;           “ publicly available ” means available to
members of the public in the United Kingdom;           “systems and/or
processes”: any reference to systems and/or processes is to human or automated
systems and/or processes, and accordingly includes technologies;           “
taking down ” (content): any reference to taking down content is to any action
that results in content being removed from a user-to-user service or being
permanently hidden so users of the service cannot encounter it (and related
expressions are to be read accordingly);           “ terms of service ”, in
relation to a user-to-user service, means all documents (whatever they are
called) comprising the contract for use of the service (or of part of it) by
United Kingdom users;           “ user-to-user part ”, in relation to a user-
to-user service, means the part of the service on which content that is user-
generated content in relation to the service is present.

236.2

The definitions of “encounter” and “person” in subsection  (1)  do not apply
for the purposes of Part 10 (for the definition of “encounter” in that Part,
see section 182 (5) ).

236.3

References in this Act to an individual with a certain characteristic include
references to an individual with a combination of characteristics.

236.4

References in this Act to a kind of user-to-user service or search service (or
Part 3 service) include references to user-to-user services or search services
grouped together for the purposes of a risk profile prepared by OFCOM under
section 98 (and references to different kinds of user-to-user services or
search services (or Part 3 services) are to be read accordingly).

236.5

References in this Act to content (or content of a particular kind) present or
prevalent on a user-to-user service (or on a part of it), or to the presence,
incidence or prevalence of content (or content of a particular kind) on a
user-to-user service (or on a part of it), do not include, in the case of a
user-to-user service that includes a search engine—

236.5.a

search content, or

236.5.b

any other content that, following a search request, may be encountered as a
result of subsequent interactions with internet services.

In this subsection “ search content ” and “ search request ” have the same
meaning as in Part 3 (see section 57).

236.6

For the purposes of this Act—

236.6.a

any reference to the use of or access to a service, or to content present,
published or displayed on a service, is to be taken to include use of or
access to the service or content on registering or on the making of a payment
or on subscription;

236.6.b

any reference to content that is made available or that may be accessed,
encountered or shared, is to be taken to include content that is made
available or that may be accessed, encountered or shared for a limited period
of time only;

and references to restrictions on access to a service or to content are to be
read accordingly.

236.7

For the purposes of this Act, content that is user-generated content in
relation to an internet service does not cease to be such content in relation
to the service when published or displayed on the service by means of—

236.7.a

software or an automated tool or algorithm applied by the provider of the
service or by a person acting on behalf of the provider, or

236.7.b

an automated tool or algorithm made available on the service by the provider
or by a person acting on behalf of the provider.

236.8

Nothing in this Act (other than section 212) affects any prohibition or
restriction in relation to pornographic content, or powers in relation to such
content, under another enactment or rule of law.

236.9

In this section, “ user-generated content ” has the meaning given by section
55 (see subsections  (3)  and  (4)  of that section).

##### Index of defined terms

237

The following table sets out terms defined or explained for this Act or for a
Part of this Act.

        Term Provision   adult section 236 age estimation section 230 age
verification section 230 audit notice section 236 automated tool section 236
capacity (of a provider) section 236 Category 1 service section 95 (10)(a)
Category 2A service section 95 (10)(b) Category 2B service section 95 (10)(c)
charging year (in Part 6) section 90 child section 236 children’s access
assessment (in Part 3) section 35 combined service section 4 (7) the
Communications Act  section 236 confirmation decision section 236 content
section 236 content that is harmful to children (in Part 3) section 60 the
Convention section 236 country section 236 CSEA content (in Part 3) section 59
document section 236 encounter (content) (except in Part 10) section 236
entity section 236 freedom of expression section 236 functionality section 233
harm (except in Part 10) section 234 identifying content section 236 illegal
content (in Part 3) section 59 information notice section 236 initial charging
year (in Part 6) section 90 interested person section 227 internet service
section 228 (see also section 204 (1) ) journalistic content (in Part 3)
section 19 likely to be accessed by children (in Part 3) section 37  measure
section 236 news publisher content (in Part 3) section 55 (8)  to  (10) non-
designated content that is harmful to children (in Part 3) section 60 notice
section 236 notify, notification section 236 OFCOM section 236 online safety
functions section 235 online safety matters section 235 paid-for advertisement
section 236 Part 3 service section 4 (3) person (except in Part 10) section
236 personal data section 236 pornographic content  section 236 primary
priority content that is harmful to children (in Part 3) section 61 priority
content that is harmful to children (in Part 3) section 62 priority illegal
content (in Part 3) section 59 priority offence (in Part 3) section 59
proactive technology section 231 processing (of data) section 236 provider
section 226 provider pornographic content (in Part 5) section 79 provisional
notice of contravention section 236 publicly available section 236
publicly/privately (in relation to communication of content) section 232
published or displayed (in relation to pornographic content) (in Part 5)
section 79 recognised news publisher (in Part 3) section 56 regulated provider
pornographic content (in Part 5) section 79 regulated search service section 4
(2) regulated service section 4 (4) regulated user-generated content (in Part
3) section 55 regulated user-to-user service section 4 (2) restricting users’
access to content (in Part 3) section 58 search section 57 search content
section 57 search engine section 229 search request section 57 search results
section 57 search service section 3 (see also section 204 (1) ) systems and/or
processes section 236 taking down (content) section 236 terms of service
section 236 terrorism content (in Part 3) section 59 United Kingdom user
section 227 user section 227 user-generated content (in Part 3) section 55 (3)
and  (4) user-to-user part (of a service) section 236 user-to-user service
section 3 (see also section 204 (1) )

#### Final provisions

##### Financial provisions

238

There is to be paid out of money provided by Parliament—

238.a

any expenditure incurred under or by virtue of this Act by the Secretary of
State, and

238.b

any increase attributable to this Act in the sums payable under any other Act
out of money so provided.

##### Extent

239

239.1

Subject to the following provisions of this section, this Act extends to
England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

239.2

The following provisions extend to England and Wales and Northern Ireland—

239.2.a

sections 179 to 183;

239.2.b

section 189 (1) .

239.3

The following provisions extend to England and Wales only—

239.3.a

section 187;

239.3.b

section 188;

239.3.c

section 189(2);

239.3.d

section 190;

239.3.e

section 213;

239.3.f

section 214 (1)  to  (3) .

239.4

Section 214 (4)  to  (6)  extends to Scotland only.

239.5

The following provisions extend to Northern Ireland only—

239.5.a

section 189(3);

239.5.b

section 214 (7)  to  (9) .

239.6

An amendment or repeal made by Schedule 14 has the same extent within the
United Kingdom as the provision amended or repealed.

239.7

His Majesty may by Order in Council provide for any of the provisions of this
Act to extend, with or without modifications, to the Bailiwick of Guernsey or
to the Isle of Man.

239.8

Subsections (1) and (2) of section 224 apply to an Order in Council under
subsection  (7)  as they apply to regulations under this Act.

239.9

The power conferred by section 411(6) of the Communications Act may be
exercised so as to extend to the Bailiwick of Guernsey or the Isle of Man any
amendment or repeal made by or under this Act of any part of that Act (with or
without modifications).

239.10

The power conferred by section 338 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 may be
exercised so as to extend to the Bailiwick of Guernsey or the Isle of Man the
amendments of provisions of that Act made by paragraph  17  of Schedule 14.

239.11

The power conferred by section 60(6) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 may be
exercised so as to extend to the Bailiwick of Guernsey or the Isle of Man the
amendments of Schedule 4 to that Act made by paragraph  19  of Schedule 14.

239.12

The power conferred by section 415(1) of the Sentencing Act 2020 may be
exercised so as to extend to the Bailiwick of Guernsey or the Isle of Man the
amendments of Schedule 18 to that Act made by paragraph  20  of Schedule 14.

##### Commencement and transitional provision

240

240.1

Except as provided by subsection  (4) , this Act comes into force on such day
as the Secretary of State may by regulations appoint.

240.2

The power to make regulations under subsection  (1)  includes power to appoint
different days for different purposes.

240.3

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may not bring section 210 into force before
the end of the period of six months beginning with the date specified in
regulations under paragraph 8(1) of Schedule 3.

240.4

The following provisions come into force on the day on which this Act is
passed—

240.4.a

Parts 1 and 2;

240.4.b

Chapter 1 of Part 3;

240.4.c

section 41, except subsection (4) of that section;

240.4.d

section 42 and Schedule 4;

240.4.e

sections 43 to 48;

240.4.f

section 52 (3) ,  (4)  and  (5) ;

240.4.g

section 53, except subsection (2) of that section;

240.4.h

Chapter 7 of Part 3 and Schedules 5, 6 and 7;

240.4.i

section 70;

240.4.j

section 74;

240.4.k

section 79;

240.4.l

section 80(4);

240.4.m

section 82;

240.4.n

sections 90 and 91;

240.4.o

section 93;

240.4.p

section 94 and Schedule 11;

240.4.q

Chapter 3 of Part 7;

240.4.r

sections 115 to 117;

240.4.s

section 129;

240.4.t

section 151;

240.4.u

section 154 so far as relating to a duty imposed on OFCOM under Schedule 11;

240.4.v

sections 169 and 170;

240.4.w

section 193, except subsection (2)(b) of that section;

240.4.x

section 194;

240.4.y

section 204(1);

240.4.z

section 207;

240.4.z1

section 212;

240.4.z2

section 214;

240.4.z3

section 219;

240.4.z4

sections 221 to 225;

240.4.z5

this Part.

240.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations make transitional, transitory or
saving provision in connection with the coming into force of any provision of
this Act.

240.6

The power to make regulations under subsection  (5)  includes power to make
different provision for different purposes.

240.7

Regulations under this section are to be made by statutory instrument.

##### Short title

241

This Act may be cited as the Online Safety Act 2023.

## SCHEDULES

  Exempt user-to-user and search services

Sections 3 and 4

##### Descriptions of services which are exempt

###### Email services

1

A user-to-user service is exempt if emails are the only user-generated content
(other than identifying content) enabled by the service.

###### SMS and MMS services

2

2.1

A user-to-user service is exempt if SMS messages are the only user-generated
content (other than identifying content) enabled by the service.

2.2

A user-to-user service is exempt if MMS messages are the only user-generated
content (other than identifying content) enabled by the service.

2.3

A user-to-user service is exempt if SMS messages and MMS messages are the only
user-generated content (other than identifying content) enabled by the
service.

2.4

“SMS message” and “MMS message” have the meaning given by section 55 (12) .

###### Services offering only one-to-one live aural communications

3

3.1

A user-to-user service is exempt if one-to-one live aural communications are
the only user-generated content (other than identifying content) enabled by
the service.

3.2

“ One-to-one live aural communications ” has the meaning given by section 55
(5) .

###### Limited functionality services

4

4.1

A user-to-user service is exempt if the functionalities of the service are
limited, such that users are able to communicate by means of the service only
in the following ways—

4.1.a

posting comments or reviews relating to provider content;

4.1.b

sharing such comments or reviews on a different internet service;

4.1.c

expressing a view on such comments or reviews, or on provider content, by
means of—

4.1.c.i

applying a “like” or “dislike” button or other button of that nature,

4.1.c.ii

applying an emoji or symbol of any kind,

4.1.c.iii

engaging in yes/no voting, or

4.1.c.iv

rating or scoring the content (or the comments or reviews) in any way
(including giving star or numerical ratings);

4.1.d

producing or displaying identifying content in connection with any of the
activities described in paragraphs (a) to (c).

4.2

In sub-paragraph  (1) , “ provider content ” means content published on a
service by the provider of the service or by a person acting on behalf of the
provider, including where the publication of the content is effected or
controlled by means of—

4.2.a

software or an automated tool or algorithm applied by the provider or by a
person acting on behalf of the provider, or

4.2.b

an automated tool or algorithm made available on the service by the provider
or by a person acting on behalf of the provider.

4.3

For the purposes of this paragraph, content that is user-generated content in
relation to a service is not to be regarded as provider content in relation to
that service.

###### Services which enable combinations of user-generated content

5

A user-to-user service is exempt if the only user-generated content enabled by
the service is content of the following kinds—

5.a

content mentioned in paragraph  1 ,  2  or  3  and related identifying
content;

5.b

content arising in connection with any of the activities described in
paragraph  4(1) .

###### Exception to exemptions in paragraphs 

6

But a a user-to-user service described in any of paragraphs  1  to  5  is not
exempt if—

6.a

regulated provider pornographic content is published or displayed on the
service, and

6.b

the service has links with the United Kingdom within the meaning of section 80
(4) .

###### Internal business services (entire user-to-user service or search service)

7

7.1

A user-to-user service or a search service is exempt if the conditions in sub-
paragraph  (2)  are met in relation to the service.

7.2

The conditions are—

7.2.a

the user-to-user service or search service is an internal resource or tool for
a business, or for more than one business carried on by the same person,

7.2.b

the person carrying on the business (or businesses) (“ P ”) is the provider of
the user-to-user service or search service, and

7.2.c

the user-to-user service or search service is available only to a closed group
of people comprising some or all of the following—

7.2.c.i

where P is an individual or individuals, that individual or those individuals,

7.2.c.ii

where P is an entity, officers of P,

7.2.c.iii

persons who work for P (including as employees or volunteers) for the purposes
of any activities of the business (or any of the businesses) in question, and

7.2.c.iv

any other persons authorised by a person within sub-paragraph (i), (ii) or
(iii) to use the service for the purposes of any activities of the business
(or any of the businesses) in question (for example, a contractor, consultant
or auditor, or in the case of an educational institution, pupils or students).

7.3

In this paragraph—

      “ business ” includes trade, profession, educational institution or
other concern (whether or not carried on for profit);           “ officer ”
includes a director, manager, partner, associate, secretary, governor, trustee
or other similar officer.

###### Internal business services (part of user-to-user service or search service)

8

8.1

A user-to-user service is exempt if—

8.1.a

the conditions in paragraph  7(2)  are met in relation to a part of the
service,

8.1.b

no user-generated content is enabled by the rest of the service, and

8.1.c

no regulated provider pornographic content is published or displayed on the
rest of the service.

8.2

A user-to-user service is also exempt if—

8.2.a

the conditions in paragraph  7(2)  are met in relation to a part of the
service,

8.2.b

the only user-generated content enabled by the rest of the service is—

8.2.b.i

content mentioned in paragraph  1 ,  2  or  3  and related identifying
content, or

8.2.b.ii

content arising in connection with any of the activities described in
paragraph  4(1) , and

8.2.c

no regulated provider pornographic content is published or displayed on the
rest of the service.

8.3

A search service is exempt if—

8.3.a

the conditions in paragraph  7(2)  are met in relation to a part of the
service that is a search engine,

8.3.b

the service does not include a public search engine, and

8.3.c

no regulated provider pornographic content is published or displayed on the
rest of the service.

8.4

In this paragraph—

      “ public search engine ” means a search engine other than one in
relation to which the conditions in paragraph  7(2)  are met;           “ the
rest of the service ” means all parts of the user-to-user service or search
service other than the part in relation to which the conditions in paragraph
7(2)  are met.

###### Services provided by public bodies

9

9.1

A user-to-user service or a search service is exempt if—

9.1.a

both of the following conditions are met in relation to the service—

9.1.a.i

the provider of the service is a public authority within the meaning of
section 6 of the Human Rights Act 1998, and

9.1.a.ii

the service is provided in the exercise of public functions only,

9.1.b

the provider of the service is Parliament, either House of Parliament, the
Scottish Parliament, Senedd Cymru, the Northern Ireland Assembly or a person
acting on behalf of any of those institutions,

9.1.c

the provider of the service is a foreign sovereign power, or

9.1.d

both of the following conditions are met in relation to the service—

9.1.d.i

the provider of the service is an entity formed under the law of a country
outside the United Kingdom, which exercises functions of a public nature, and

9.1.d.ii

the service is provided in the exercise of such functions only.

9.2

But a user-to-user service or a search service is not exempt under this
paragraph if—

9.2.a

the provider of the service is a person providing education or childcare, and

9.2.b

the service is provided for the purposes of that education or childcare.

See paragraph  10  for an exemption for services provided by persons providing
education or childcare of particular descriptions.

9.3

This paragraph is without prejudice to the fact that this Act does not apply
in relation to a user-to-user or search service provided by the Crown.

9.4

In this paragraph, “ public function ” means a function that is a function of
a public nature for the purposes of the Human Rights Act 1998.

###### Services provided by persons providing education or childcare

10

10.1

A user-to-user service or a search service is exempt if—

10.1.a

the provider of the service is—

10.1.a.i

the person with legal responsibility for education or childcare of a
description listed in Part 2 of this Schedule (“the responsible person”), or
where the responsible person is a body, a member of that body, or

10.1.a.ii

a person who is employed or engaged to provide education or childcare of a
description listed in Part 2 of this Schedule, and who is subject to
safeguarding duties which relate to the provision of that education or
childcare, and

10.1.b

the service is provided for the purposes of that education or childcare.

10.2

In sub-paragraph  (1)(a)(ii) , “ safeguarding duties ” means duties or
requirements which are related to the safeguarding of children arising under
enactments other than this Act, under guidance or requirements (however
referred to) produced under enactments other than this Act, or as a result of
contractual arrangements made by the responsible person.

10.3

For the purposes of this paragraph, the person with legal responsibility for
education or childcare of a particular description is the person with legal
responsibility for its day-to-day provision (for example, the person with
legal responsibility for a particular school), rather than any other person
who has a duty to ensure that, in general, education or childcare of that
description (or education or childcare which includes education or childcare
of that description) is provided.

###### Interpretation

11

In Part 1 of this Schedule—

      “ enactment ” includes—         an enactment contained in subordinate
legislation (within the meaning of the Interpretation Act 1978),           an
enactment contained in, or in an instrument made under, an Act of the Scottish
Parliament,           an enactment contained in, or in an instrument made
under, a Measure or Act of Senedd Cymru, and           an enactment contained
in, or in an instrument made under, Northern Ireland legislation;
“ regulated provider pornographic content ” and “ published or displayed ”
have the same meaning as in Part 5 (see section 79);           “ user-
generated content ” has the meaning given by section 55 (see subsections  (3)
and  (4)  of that section).

##### Paragraph 10 exemption: descriptions of education and childcare

###### England

12

Early years childminding by an early years childminder registered under
Chapter 2 of Part 3 of the Childcare Act 2006.

13

Early years provision by a person registered under Chapter 2 of Part 3 of that
Act.

14

Later years childminding by a later years childminder registered under Chapter
3 of Part 3 of that Act.

15

Later years provision by a person registered under Chapter 3 of Part 3 of that
Act.

16

Education or childcare in a maintained nursery school within the meaning of
section 22 of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998.

17

Education or childcare in—

17.a

an Academy school, within the meaning of section 1A of the Academies Act 2010;

17.b

an alternate provision Academy, within the meaning of section 1C of that Act;

17.c

a maintained school, within the meaning of the School Standards and Framework
Act 1998 (see section 20(7) of that Act);

17.d

a non-maintained special school, being a school that is approved under section
342 of the Education Act 1996;

17.e

an independent educational institution registered on the register maintained
under section 95 of the Education and Skills Act 2008;

17.f

a pupil referral unit, within the meaning of section 19 of the Education Act
1996.

18

Education in—

18.a

an institution in England within the further education sector, within the
meaning of the Further and Higher Education Act 1992 (see section 91(3) of
that Act);

18.b

a 16 to 19 Academy, within the meaning of section 1B of the Academies Act
2010;

18.c

a special post-16 institution, within the meaning of Part 3 of the Children
and Families Act 2014 (see section 83(2) of that Act).

19

Education provided by an independent training provider.

20

Further education for persons under 19 provided by a local authority in
England.

21

In paragraphs  12  to  15 , “ early years childminding ”, “ early years
provision ”, “ later years childminding ” and “ later years provision ” have
the same meaning as in Part 3 of the Childcare Act 2006 (see section 98 of
that Act).

22

In paragraph  19 , “ independent training provider ” means a provider—

22.a

that is a provider of post-16 education or training carried on, or partly
carried on, in England—

22.a.i

to which Chapter 3 of Part 8 of the Education and Inspections Act 2006
(inspection of further education and training etc) applies, and

22.a.ii

which is funded, wholly or partly, by the Secretary of State, a local
authority in England or a combined authority, but

22.b

that is not—

22.b.i

an employer who only provides such education or training to its employees,

22.b.ii

a 16 to 19 Academy (within the meaning of section 1B of the Academies Act
2010),

22.b.iii

a school,

22.b.iv

a local authority in England,

22.b.v

an institution within the further education sector (within the meaning given
by section 91(3) of the Further and Higher Education Act 1992), or

22.b.vi

a higher education provider (within the meaning given by section 83(1) of the
Higher Education and Research Act 2017).

23

In paragraphs  20  and  22 , “ local authority in England ” has the same
meaning as in the Education Act 1996 (see sections 579(1) and 581 of that
Act).

24

In paragraph  22 —

      “ combined authority ” means a combined authority established under
section 103 of the Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act
2009;           “ school ” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
Education Act 1996.

###### Scotland

25

Early learning and childcare, within the meaning of Part 6 of the Children and
Young People (Scotland) Act  2014 (asp 8)  (see section 46 of that Act).

26

Child minding, within the meaning of Part 5 of the Public Services Reform
(Scotland) Act  2010 (asp 8)  (see paragraph 12 of Schedule 12 to that Act).

27

Day care of children, within the meaning of Part 5 of that Act (see paragraph
13 of Schedule 12 to that Act).

28

Primary education, secondary education or childcare in—

28.a

a school, or

28.b

a hostel used mainly by pupils attending a school;

and in this paragraph “ school ” has the same meaning as in the Education
(Scotland) Act 1980 (see section 135(1) of that Act).

29

Further education provided by a body listed under the heading “Institutions
formerly eligible for funding by the Scottish Further Education Funding
Council” or under the heading “Other institutions” in Schedule 2 to the
Further and Higher Education (Scotland) Act  2005 (asp 6) .

30

Further education provided by a college of further education which is assigned
to a regional strategic body by an order made under section 7C(1) of that Act.

###### Wales

31

Child minding by a person who is registered as a child minder under Part 2 of
the  Children and Families (Wales) Measure 2010 (nawm 1) .

32

Day care for children by a person who is registered to provide day care for
children under Part 2 of that Measure.

33

Primary education, secondary education or childcare in a school in Wales,
within the meaning of the Education Act 1996 as it applies in relation to
Wales (see section 4 of that Act).

34

Education provided in accordance with section 19A of the Education Act 1996.

35

Further education in an institution in Wales within the further education
sector, within the meaning of the Further and Higher Education Act 1992 (see
section 91(3) of that Act).

36

Any other post-16 education or training in Wales, the facilities for which are
secured under section 31(1)(a) or (b) or 32(1)(a) or (b) of the Learning and
Skills Act 2000, that is funded by the Welsh Ministers or a local authority in
Wales (within the meaning of section 579(1) of the Education Act 1996), but
that is not provided by—

36.a

an institution in Wales within the higher education sector, within the meaning
of the Further and Higher Education Act 1992 (see section 91(5) of that Act),
or

36.b

a person who is a provider of such post-16 education or training only by
reason of providing such education or training to the person’s employees.

37

In paragraphs  31  and  32 , “ child minding ” and “ day care for children ”
have the same meaning as in Part 2 of the Children and Families (Wales)
Measure 2010 (see section 19 of that Measure).

###### Northern Ireland

38

Childcare by persons who act as child minders or provide day care for children
within the meaning of the Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 ( S.I.
1995/755 (N.I. 2) ), and who are registered under Article 118 of that Order.

39

Pre-school education, within the meaning of Part 5 of the Education (Northern
Ireland) Order 1998 ( S.I. 1998/1759 (N.I. 13) ) (see Article 17(8) of that
Order).

40

Education in a nursery school, within the meaning of the Education and
Libraries (Northern Ireland) Order 1986 ( S.I. 1986/594 (N.I. 3) ) (see
Article 2(2) of that Order).

41

Education or childcare in a school, within the meaning of the Education and
Libraries (Northern Ireland) Order 1986 (see Article 2(2) of that Order).

42

Education which is suitable education otherwise than at school provided in
accordance with Article 86 of the Education (Northern Ireland) Order 1998.

43

Education in an institution of further education, within the meaning of the
Further Education (Northern Ireland) Order 1997 ( S.I. 1997/1772 (N.I. 15) )
(see Article 2(2) of that Order).

44

Education in agriculture and related subjects.

##### Interpretation

45

The following definitions apply for the purposes of this Schedule.

46

“Childcare”—

46.a

in relation to provision in England, has same meaning as in the Childcare Act
2006 (see section 18 of that Act);

46.b

in relation to provision in Scotland, means early learning and childcare
within the meaning of Part 6 of the Children and Young People (Scotland) Act
2014 (see section 46 of that Act), and any form of care provided outside
school hours or during school holidays to children who are in attendance at an
educational establishment (and in this paragraph, “ educational establishment
” has the same meaning as in the Education (Scotland) Act 1980 (see section
135(1) of that Act));

46.c

in relation to provision in Wales, means anything that amounts to child
minding or day care for children for the purposes of Part 2 of the Children
and Families (Wales) Measure 2010 (see section 19(2) to (4) of that Measure),
and any form of care provided by a school outside school hours or during
school holidays (and in this paragraph “ school ” has the same meaning as in
the Education Act 1996 as it applies in relation to Wales (see section 4 of
that Act));

46.d

in relation to provision in Northern Ireland, means anything that amounts to
child minding or day care for the purposes of Part 11 of the Children
(Northern Ireland) Order 1995, and any form of care provided by a school
outside school hours or during school holidays (and in this paragraph “ school
” has the same meaning as in the Education and Libraries (Northern Ireland)
Order (see Article 2(2) of that Order)).

47

“Education”—

47.a

in relation to provision in England, Wales and Scotland, means primary
education, secondary education, further education or higher education;

47.b

in relation to provision in Northern Ireland, means primary education,
secondary education, further education, higher education or education in
agriculture and related subjects.

48

“ Education in agriculture and related subjects ”, in relation to provision in
Northern Ireland, means education consisting of instruction in agriculture and
related subjects provided by the Department of Agriculture, Environment and
Rural Affairs in Northern Ireland under section 5(2)(a) of the  Agriculture
Act (Northern Ireland) 1949 (c. 2 (N.I.)) , but not where the instruction is
provided only to the Department’s employees.

49

“Further education”—

49.a

in relation to provision in England and Wales, has the same meaning as in the
Education Act 1996 (see section 2 of that Act);

49.b

in relation to provision in Scotland, has the same meaning as in Part 1 of the
Further and Higher Education (Scotland) Act 1992 (see sections 1(3) and 6 of
that Act);

49.c

in relation to provision in Northern Ireland, has the same meaning as in the
Further Education (Northern Ireland) Order 1997 (see Article 3 of that Order).

50

“Higher education”—

50.a

in relation to provision in England and Wales, has the same meaning as in the
Education Act 1996 (see section 579(1) of that Act);

50.b

in relation to provision in Scotland, has the same meaning as in Part 2 of the
Further and Higher Education (Scotland) Act 1992 (see section 38 of that Act);

50.c

in relation to provision in Northern Ireland, means—

50.c.i

“higher education” within the meaning of the Further Education (Northern
Ireland) Order 1997 (see Article 2(2) of that Order), and

50.c.ii

any other education provided by a higher education institution within the
meaning of the Education and Libraries (Northern Ireland) Order 1993 ( S.I.
1993/2810 (N.I. 12) ) (see Article 30 of that Order).

51

“Primary education” and “secondary education”—

51.a

in relation to provision in England and Wales, have the same meaning as in the
Education Act 1996 (see section 2 of that Act);

51.b

in relation to provision in Scotland, have the same meaning as in the
Education (Scotland) Act 1980 (see section 135(2) of that Act);

51.c

in relation to provision in Northern Ireland, have the same meaning as in the
Education and Libraries (Northern Ireland) Order 1986 (see Article 2(2) of
that Order).

  User-to-user services and search services that include regulated provider
pornographic content

Section 4

1

A user-to-user service described in any of paragraphs  1  to  5  of Schedule
1—

1.a

on which regulated provider pornographic content is published or displayed,
and

1.b

that has links with the United Kingdom.

2

2.1

A user-to-user service within sub-paragraph  (2)  or  (3) .

2.2

A user-to-user service is within this sub-paragraph if—

2.2.a

the internal business service conditions are met in relation to a part of the
service,

2.2.b

no user-generated content is enabled by the rest of the service,

2.2.c

regulated provider pornographic content is published or displayed on the rest
of the service, and

2.2.d

the service has links with the United Kingdom.

2.3

A user-to-user service is within this sub-paragraph if—

2.3.a

the internal business service conditions are met in relation to a part of the
service,

2.3.b

the only user-generated content enabled by the rest of the service is—

2.3.b.i

content mentioned in paragraph  1 ,  2  or  3  of Schedule 1 and related
identifying content, or

2.3.b.ii

content arising in connection with any of the activities described in
paragraph  4(1)  of Schedule 1,

2.3.c

regulated provider pornographic content is published or displayed on the rest
of the service, and

2.3.d

the service has links with the United Kingdom.

3

3.1

A search service within sub-paragraph  (2) .

3.2

A search service is within this sub-paragraph if—

3.2.a

the internal business service conditions are met in relation to a part of the
service that is a search engine,

3.2.b

the service does not include a public search engine,

3.2.c

regulated provider pornographic content is published or displayed on the rest
of the service, and

3.2.d

the service has links with the United Kingdom.

4

For the purposes of this Schedule, a service “has links with the United
Kingdom” if it has links with the United Kingdom within the meaning of section
80 (4) .

5

In this Schedule—

      “ the internal business service conditions ” means the conditions in
paragraph  7(2)  of Schedule 1;           “ public search engine ” means a
search engine other than one in relation to which the internal business
service conditions are met;           “ regulated provider pornographic
content ” and “ published or displayed ” have the same meaning as in Part 5
(see section 79);           “ the rest of the service ” means any part of the
user-to-user service or search service other than the part in relation to
which the internal business service conditions are met;           “ user-
generated content ” has the meaning given by section 55 (see subsections  (3)
and  (4)  of that section).

Timing of providers’ assessments

Sections 9, 11, 14, 26, 28 and 36

##### Timing of illegal content risk assessments and children’s access assessments

###### Part 3 services already in operation at the outset of the regime provided for by this Act

1

1.1

This paragraph applies in relation to a Part 3 service which is in operation
immediately before the day on which the first illegal content risk assessment
guidance is published.

1.2

The first illegal content risk assessment of the service must be completed
within the period of three months beginning with the day on which that
guidance is published.

1.3

The first CAA of the service must be completed within the period of three
months beginning with the day on which the first CAA guidance is published.

###### New Part 3 services which start up, and existing services which become Part 3 services, between publication of the first illegal content risk assessment guidance and the first CAA guidance

2

2.1

In this paragraph “ the first day ”, in relation to a Part 3 service, means—

2.1.a

the first day on which the service is a Part 3 service (being a new service),
or

2.1.b

the first day on which the service becomes a Part 3 service (having previously
not been a Part 3 service).

2.2

Sub-paragraphs (3) and (4) apply if, on the first day, illegal content risk
assessment guidance is available but the first CAA guidance has not yet been
published.

2.3

The first illegal content risk assessment of the service must be completed
within the period of three months beginning with the first day.

2.4

The first CAA of the service must be completed within the period of three
months beginning with the day on which the first CAA guidance is published.

###### New Part 3 services which start up when illegal content risk assessment guidance and CAA guidance are both available

3

3.1

In this paragraph “ the first day ”, in relation to a Part 3 service, means
the first day on which the service is a Part 3 service (being a new service).

3.2

If, on the first day, illegal content risk assessment guidance and CAA
guidance are both available, both of the following must be completed within
the period of three months beginning with that day—

3.2.a

the first illegal content risk assessment of the service, and

3.2.b

the first CAA of the service.

###### Existing services which become Part 3 services when illegal content risk assessment guidance and CAA guidance are both available

4

4.1

In this paragraph “ the first day ”, in relation to a Part 3 service, means
the first day on which the service becomes, or again becomes, a Part 3 service
(following a period during which the service was not a Part 3 service).

4.2

If, on the first day, illegal content risk assessment guidance and CAA
guidance are both available, both of the following must be completed within
the period of three months beginning with that day—

4.2.a

an illegal content risk assessment of the service, and

4.2.b

a CAA of the service.

##### Timing of children’s risk assessments and section 15

###### Children’s risk assessments

5

5.1

In this paragraph “ the relevant day ”, in relation to a Part 3 service,
means—

5.1.a

the first day on which the service is treated as likely to be accessed by
children, or

5.1.b

the first day on which the service is again treated as likely to be accessed
by children (following a period during which the service was not so treated).

5.2

If, on the relevant day, children’s risk assessment guidance is available, a
children’s risk assessment of the service must be completed within the period
of three months beginning with that day.

5.3

Sub-paragraph (4) applies if—

5.3.a

on the relevant day, the first children’s risk assessment guidance has not yet
been published, and

5.3.b

immediately before the publication of that guidance, the service is still
treated as likely to be accessed by children.

5.4

The first children’s risk assessment of the service must be completed within
the period of three months beginning with the day on which the first
children’s risk assessment guidance is published.

###### Section 15(2) assessments

6

6.1

In this paragraph “ the relevant day ”, in relation to a regulated user-to-
user service, means—

6.1.a

the first day on which the service is a Category 1 service, or

6.1.b

the first day on which the service again becomes a Category 1 service
(following a period during which the service was not a Category 1 service).

6.2

If, on the relevant day, section 15(2) guidance is available, a section 15(2)
assessment of the service must be completed within the period of three months
beginning with that day.

6.3

Sub-paragraph (4) applies if—

6.3.a

on the relevant day, the first section 15(2) guidance has not yet been
published, and

6.3.b

immediately before the publication of that guidance, the service is still a
Category 1 service.

6.4

The first section 15(2) assessment of the service must be completed within the
period of three months beginning with the day on which the first section 15(2)
guidance is published.

##### Pre-existing Part 4B services

###### Interpretation of this Part

7

7.1

In this Part, “ pre-existing Part 4B service ” means—

7.1.a

an internet service which—

7.1.a.i

is a video-sharing platform service by reason of the conditions in section
368S(1) and (2) of the Communications Act being met in relation to the service
as a whole, and

7.1.a.ii

was being provided immediately before Schedule 17 (videosharing platform
services: transitional provision etc) comes into force; or

7.1.b

a dissociable section of an internet service, where that dissociable section—

7.1.b.i

is a video-sharing platform service by reason of the conditions in section
368S(1)(a) and (2) of the Communications Act being met in relation to that
dissociable section, and

7.1.b.ii

was being provided immediately before Schedule 17 comes into force.

7.2

In sub-paragraph (1), any reference to a service provided before Schedule 17
comes into force includes a reference to a service provided in breach of the
requirement in section 368V of the Communications Act.

8

8.1

In this Part, “ assessment start day ”, in relation to a pre-existing Part 4B
service, means—

8.1.a

the date specified in regulations made by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Part of this Schedule, or

8.1.b

if the pre-existing Part 4B service ceases to be a video-sharing platform
service before the date specified in the regulations, the date when that
service ceases to be a video-sharing platform service.

8.2

But in respect of any period during which this Schedule is fully in force and
no regulations under sub-paragraph (1) have yet been made, the definition in
sub-paragraph (1) has effect as if—

8.2.a

for paragraph (a) there were substituted  “the date when section 210 comes
into force” , and

8.2.b

in paragraph (b), for “specified in the regulations” there were substituted
“when section 210 comes into force” .

9

In this Part “ video-sharing platform service ” has the same meaning as in
Part 4B of the Communications Act (see section 368S of that Act).

10

Any reference in this Part to the effect of Part 1 or 2 of this Schedule is a
reference to the effect that Part 1 or 2 would have if this Part were
disregarded.

##### Pre-existing Part 4B services which are regulated user-to-user services

###### Application of paragraphs 

11

11.1

This paragraph and paragraphs  12  to  14  apply in relation to a pre-existing
Part 4B service which—

11.1.a

is within the definition in paragraph (a) of paragraph 7(1), and

11.1.b

is also a regulated user-to-user service.

11.2

If the effect of Part 1 of this Schedule is that the period within which the
first illegal content risk assessment or CAA of the service must be completed
begins on a day before the assessment start day, the time for carrying out
that assessment is extended as set out in paragraph  12  or  13 .

11.3

If the effect of paragraph  6  is that the period within which the first
section 15 (2)  assessment of the service must be completed begins on a day
before the assessment start day, the time for carrying out that assessment is
extended as set out in paragraph  14 .

11.4

But paragraphs  12  to  14  do not apply if the service ceases to be a
regulated user-to-user service on the assessment start day.

###### Illegal content risk assessments and children’s access assessments

12

12.1

Sub-paragraphs (2) and (3) apply in relation to the service if, on the
assessment start day, illegal content risk assessment guidance is available
but the first CAA guidance has not yet been published.

12.2

The first illegal content risk assessment of the service must be completed
within the period of three months beginning with the assessment start day.

12.3

The first CAA of the service must be completed within the period of three
months beginning with the day on which the first CAA guidance is published.

13

If, on the assessment start day, illegal content risk assessment guidance and
CAA guidance are both available, both of the following must be completed
within the period of three months beginning with that day—

13.a

the first illegal content risk assessment of the service, and

13.b

the first CAA of the service.

###### Section 15(2) assessments

14

14.1

If section 15(2) guidance is available on the assessment start day, the first
section 15(2) assessment of the service must be completed within the period of
three months beginning with that day.

14.2

If, on the assessment start day, the first section 15 (2)  guidance has not
yet been published, the first section 15(2) assessment of the service must be
completed within the period of three months beginning with the day on which
the first section 15(2) guidance is published.

##### Regulated user-to-user services which include a pre-existing Part 4B service

###### Application of paragraphs 

15

15.1

Paragraphs  16  to  20  make provision about the timing of assessments in the
case of a regulated user-to-user service which includes a pre-existing Part 4B
service within the definition in paragraph (b) of paragraph 7(1).

15.2

In sub-paragraph (3) and paragraphs  16  to  20 —

15.2.a

“ the regulated service ” means the regulated user-to-user service, and

15.2.b

“ the Part 4B part ” means the pre-existing Part 4B service which is included
in the regulated service.

15.3

If the effect of Part 1 or paragraph  6  of this Schedule is that the period
within which the first illegal content risk assessment, CAA or section 15 (2)
assessment of the regulated service must be completed begins on a day before
the assessment start day—

15.3.a

the time for carrying out the assessment in question in relation to the Part
4B part is extended as set out in paragraph  16 ,  17  or  18  (whichever
applies),

15.3.b

Part 1 and paragraph  6  apply as set out in paragraph  19 , and

15.3.c

paragraph 5 applies as set out in paragraph  20 .

15.4

But paragraphs  16  to  20  do not apply if the service ceases to be a
regulated user-to-user service on the assessment start day.

###### Illegal content risk assessments and children’s access assessments of Part 4B part

16

16.1

Sub-paragraphs (2) and (3) apply in relation to the Part 4B part if, on the
assessment start day, illegal content risk assessment guidance is available
but the first CAA guidance has not yet been published.

16.2

The first illegal content risk assessment of the Part 4B part must be
completed within the period of three months beginning with the assessment
start day.

16.3

The first CAA of the Part 4B part must be completed within the period of three
months beginning with the day on which the first CAA guidance is published.

17

If, on the assessment start day, illegal content risk assessment guidance and
CAA guidance are both available, both of the following must be completed
within the period of three months beginning with that day—

17.a

an illegal content risk assessment of the Part 4B part, and

17.b

a CAA of the Part 4B part.

###### Section 15(2) assessments of Part 4B part

18

18.1

If section 15(2) guidance is available on the assessment start day, a section
15(2) assessment of the Part 4B part must be completed within the period of
three months beginning with that day.

18.2

If, on the assessment start day, the first section 15 (2)  guidance has not
yet been published, a section 15 (2)  assessment of the Part 4B part must be
completed within the period of three months beginning with the day on which
the first section 15 (2)  guidance is published.

###### Application of Part 1 and paragraph 

19

19.1

This paragraph applies in relation to—

19.1.a

an illegal content risk assessment or a CAA of the regulated service if an
assessment of that kind is due to be carried out in relation to the Part 4B
part of the service in accordance with paragraph  16  or  17 ;

19.1.b

a section 15 (2)  assessment of the regulated service if a section 15 (2)
assessment is due to be carried out in relation to the Part 4B part of the
service in accordance with paragraph  18 .

References in the rest of this paragraph to an illegal content risk
assessment, a CAA or a section 15 (2)  assessment are to an assessment of that
kind to which this paragraph applies.

19.2

For the purposes of this paragraph—

19.2.a

the regulated service is “type 1” if it would still be a regulated user-to-
user service even if the Part 4B part were to be assumed not to be part of the
service;

19.2.b

the regulated service is “type 2” if it would be a regulated search service if
the Part 4B part were to be assumed not to be part of the service;

19.2.c

the regulated service is “type 3” if it does not fall within paragraph (a) or
(b).

19.3

If the regulated service is type 1, an illegal content risk assessment, a CAA
or a section 15 (2)  assessment is to be treated as being due at the time
provided for by Part 1 or paragraph  6  only in relation to the rest of the
service.

19.4

In sub-paragraph (3) “ the rest of the service ” means any user-to-user part
of the regulated service other than the Part 4B part.

19.5

If the regulated service is type 2—

19.5.a

an illegal content risk assessment is not required to be carried out at the
time provided for by Part 1, but that is not to be taken to prevent an illegal
content risk assessment as defined by section 26 from being due in relation to
the search engine of the service at the time provided for by Part 1;

19.5.b

a CAA is to be treated as being due at the time provided for by Part 1 only in
relation to the search engine of the service;

19.5.c

a section 15 (2)  assessment is not required to be carried out at the time
provided for by paragraph  6 .

19.6

If the regulated service is type 3, no illegal content risk assessment, CAA or
section 15 (2)  assessment is required to be carried out at the time provided
for by Part 1 or paragraph  6 .

###### Application of paragraph 5

20

20.1

This paragraph sets out how paragraph 5 (children’s risk assessments) is to
apply if a CAA is required to be carried out in accordance with—

20.1.a

paragraph  16  or  17  (CAA of Part 4B part of a service),

20.1.b

paragraph  19(3)  (CAA of the rest of a service), or

20.1.c

paragraph  19(5)(b)  (CAA of search engine of a service).

20.2

The definition of “the relevant day” is to operate by reference to the CAA
that was (or was required to be) carried out, and accordingly, references to
the day on which the service is to be treated as likely to be accessed by
children are to be read as references to the day on which the Part 4B part of
the service, the rest of the service or the search engine of the service (as
the case may be) is to be treated as likely to be accessed by children.

20.3

References to a children’s risk assessment of the service are to a children’s
risk assessment of the Part 4B part of the service, the rest of the service or
the search engine of the service (as the case may be).

##### Interpretation, and extension of three-month periods

###### Interpretation of this Schedule

21

In this Schedule—

“ CAA ” means a children’s access assessment (see section 35); “ CAA guidance
” means OFCOM’s guidance under section 52 (3)(b)  (guidance about children’s
access assessments); “ children’s risk assessment guidance ” means OFCOM’s
guidance under section 99 (3) ; “section 15 (2)  assessment” means OFCOM’s
assessment under section 14 (assessments related to the adult user empowerment
duty set out in section 15 (2) ); “ section 15(2) guidance ” means OFCOM’s
guidance under section 52 (1) .

22

For the meaning of “likely to be accessed by children”, see section 37.

23

In relation to regulated user-to-user services (or in the case of combined
services, the user-to-user part of such services)—

23.a

references to an illegal content risk assessment are to an illegal content
risk assessment as defined by section 9;

23.b

references to illegal content risk assessment guidance are to OFCOM’s guidance
under section 99(1).

24

In relation to regulated search services and the search engine of combined
services—

24.a

references to an illegal content risk assessment are to an illegal content
risk assessment as defined by section 26;

24.b

references to illegal content risk assessment guidance are to OFCOM’s guidance
under section 99(2).

25

In relation to regulated user-to-user services (or in the case of combined
services, the user-to-user part of such services)—

25.a

references to a children’s risk assessment are to a children’s risk assessment
as defined by section 11;

25.b

references to children’s risk assessment guidance are to be read as references
to guidance about such children’s risk assessments.

26

In relation to regulated search services and the search engine of combined
services—

26.a

references to a children’s risk assessment are to a children’s risk assessment
as defined by section 28;

26.b

references to children’s risk assessment guidance are to be read as references
to guidance about such children’s risk assessments.

27

For the purposes of this Schedule, guidance of a particular kind is available
at a particular time if at that time there is in existence published guidance
of that kind.

###### Extension of three-month periods

28

28.1

This paragraph applies in relation to a time-limit of three months imposed by
any provision of this Schedule for completing a CAA, a section 15 (2)
assessment or a particular kind of risk assessment.

28.2

Extra time may be allowed—

28.2.a

by agreement between OFCOM and the provider of a particular Part 3 service, or

28.2.b

in accordance with a notice published by OFCOM specifying a longer period for
CAAs, section 15 (2)  assessments or risk assessments of that kind (as the
case may be) which relate to Part 3 services of a particular kind or size.

Codes of practice under section 41: principles, objectives, content

Section 42

##### General principles

1

In preparing a draft of a code of practice or amendments of a code of
practice, OFCOM must—

1.a

consider the appropriateness of provisions of the code of practice to
different kinds and sizes of Part 3 services and to providers of differing
sizes and capacities, and

1.b

have regard to the principles mentioned in paragraph  2 .

2

The principles are as follows—

2.a

providers of Part 3 services must be able to understand which provisions of
the code of practice apply in relation to a particular service they provide;

2.b

the measures described in the code of practice must be sufficiently clear, and
at a sufficiently detailed level, that providers understand what those
measures entail in practice;

2.c

the measures described in the code of practice must be proportionate and
technically feasible: measures that are proportionate or technically feasible
for providers of a certain size or capacity, or for services of a certain kind
or size, may not be proportionate or technically feasible for providers of a
different size or capacity or for services of a different kind or size;

2.d

the measures described in the code of practice that apply in relation to Part
3 services of various kinds and sizes must be proportionate to OFCOM’s
assessment (under section 98) of the risk of harm presented by services of
that kind or size.

##### Online safety objectives

3

OFCOM must ensure that measures described in codes of practice are compatible
with pursuit of the online safety objectives.

4

The online safety objectives for regulated user-to-user services are as
follows—

4.a

a service should be designed and operated in such a way that—

4.a.i

the systems and processes for regulatory compliance and risk management are
effective and proportionate to the kind and size of service,

4.a.ii

the systems and processes are appropriate to deal with the number of users of
the service and its user base,

4.a.iii

United Kingdom users (including children) are made aware of, and can
understand, the terms of service,

4.a.iv

there are adequate systems and processes to support United Kingdom users,

4.a.v

(in the case of a Category 1 service) users are offered options to increase
their control over the content they encounter and the users they interact
with,

4.a.vi

the service provides a higher standard of protection for children than for
adults,

4.a.vii

the different needs of children at different ages are taken into account,

4.a.viii

there are adequate controls over access to the service by adults, and

4.a.ix

there are adequate controls over access to, and use of, the service by
children, taking into account use of the service by, and impact on, children
in different age groups;

4.b

a service should be designed and operated so as to protect individuals in the
United Kingdom who are users of the service from harm, including with regard
to—

4.b.i

algorithms used by the service,

4.b.ii

functionalities of the service, and

4.b.iii

other features relating to the operation of the service.

5

The online safety objectives for regulated search services are as follows—

5.a

a service should be designed and operated in such a way that—

5.a.i

the systems and processes for regulatory compliance and risk management are
effective and proportionate to the kind and size of service,

5.a.ii

the systems and processes are appropriate to deal with the number of users of
the service and its user base,

5.a.iii

United Kingdom users (including children) are made aware of, and can
understand, the publicly available statement referred to in sections 27 and
29,

5.a.iv

there are adequate systems and processes to support United Kingdom users,

5.a.v

the service provides a higher standard of protection for children than for
adults, and

5.a.vi

the different needs of children at different ages are taken into account;

5.b

a service should be assessed to understand its use by, and impact on, children
in different age groups;

5.c

a search engine should be designed and operated so as to protect individuals
in the United Kingdom who are users of the service from harm, including with
regard to—

5.c.i

algorithms used by the search engine,

5.c.ii

functionalities relating to searches (such as a predictive search
functionality), and

5.c.iii

the indexing, organisation and presentation of search results.

6

In the case of a combined service—

6.a

the online safety objectives set out in paragraph  4  do not apply in relation
to the search engine;

6.b

the online safety objectives set out in paragraph  5  apply in relation to the
search engine, and accordingly references in that paragraph to a search
service are to be read as references to the search engine;

6.c

the reference in paragraph  5(a)(iii)  to a publicly available statement
includes a reference to provisions of the terms of service which relate to the
search engine.

7

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend paragraph  4  or  5  so as to
vary the online safety objectives for regulated user-to-user services or
regulated search services, and such regulations may make consequential
amendments of paragraph  6 .

8

If regulations are made amending the online safety objectives, OFCOM must, as
soon as reasonably practicable after the regulations come into force, consider
whether a review of the codes of practice published under section 46 is
required and, if OFCOM consider that it is required, carry out a review to
assess whether any amendments are needed to reflect the revised objectives.

##### Content of codes of practice

9

9.1

Codes of practice that describe measures recommended for the purpose of
compliance with a duty set out in section 10(2) or (3) (illegal content) must
include measures in each of the areas of a service listed in section 10(4).

9.2

Codes of practice that describe measures recommended for the purpose of
compliance with a duty set out in section 12(2) or (3) (children’s online
safety) must include measures in each of the areas of a service listed in
section 12 (8) .

9.3

Codes of practice that describe measures recommended for the purpose of
compliance with a duty set out in section 27(2) or (3) (illegal content) must
include measures in each of the areas of a service listed in section 27(4).

9.4

Codes of practice that describe measures recommended for the purpose of
compliance with a duty set out in section 29(2) or (3) (children’s online
safety) must include measures in each of the areas of a service listed in
section 29(4).

9.5

Sub-paragraphs  (1)  to  (4)  apply to the extent that inclusion of the
measures in question is consistent with paragraph  1(a)  and the principles
mentioned in paragraph  2(c)  and  (d) .

10

10.1

Measures described in a code of practice which are recommended for the purpose
of compliance with any of the relevant duties must be designed in the light of
the principles mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2)  and (where appropriate)
incorporate safeguards for the protection of the matters mentioned in those
principles.

10.2

The principles are—

10.2.a

the importance of protecting the right of users and (in the case of search
services or combined services) interested persons to freedom of expression
within the law, and

10.2.b

the importance of protecting the privacy of users.

10.3

In sub-paragraph  (2)(b)  the reference to protecting the privacy of users is
to protecting users from a breach of any statutory provision or rule of law
concerning privacy that is relevant to the use or operation of a user-to-user
service or a search service (including, but not limited to, any such provision
or rule concerning the processing of personal data).

10.4

In this paragraph “ the relevant duties ” means the duties set out in—

10.4.a

sections 10 and 27 (illegal content),

10.4.b

sections 12 and 29 (children’s online safety),

10.4.c

section 15 (user empowerment),

10.4.d

section 17 (content of democratic importance),

10.4.e

section 19 (journalistic content),

10.4.f

sections 20 and 31 (content reporting),

10.4.g

sections 21 and 32 (complaints procedures), and

10.4.h

sections 38 and 39 (fraudulent advertising).

11

Measures described in a code of practice may relate only to the design or
operation of a Part 3 service—

11.a

in the United Kingdom, or

11.b

as it affects United Kingdom users of the service.

##### Content of codes of practice: age assurance

12

12.1

This paragraph is about the inclusion of age assurance in a code of practice
as a measure recommended for the purpose of compliance with any of the duties
set out in section 12(2) or (3) or 29(2) or (3), and sub-paragraph (2) sets
out some further principles, in addition to those in paragraphs 1 and 2
(general principles) and 10(2) (freedom of expression and privacy), which are
particularly relevant.

12.2

In deciding whether to recommend the use of age assurance, or which kinds of
age assurance to recommend, OFCOM must have regard to the following—

12.2.a

the principle that age assurance should be effective at correctly identifying
the age or age-range of users;

12.2.b

relevant standards set out in the latest version of the code of practice under
section 123 of the Data Protection Act 2018 (age-appropriate design code);

12.2.c

the need to strike the right balance between—

12.2.c.i

the levels of risk and the nature, and severity, of potential harm to children
which the age assurance is designed to guard against, and

12.2.c.ii

protecting the right of users and (in the case of search services or the
search engine of combined services) interested persons to freedom of
expression within the law;

12.2.d

the principle that more effective kinds of age assurance should be used to
deal with higher levels of risk of harm to children;

12.2.e

the principle that age assurance should be easy to use, including by children
of different ages and with different needs;

12.2.f

the principle that age assurance should work effectively for all users
regardless of their characteristics or whether they are members of a certain
group;

12.2.g

the principle of interoperability between different kinds of age assurance.

12.3

In a code of practice that describes measures for the purpose of compliance
with the duty set out in section 12(3)(a), OFCOM must recommend (among other
things) age verification or age estimation which is such of a kind, and which
is to be used in such a way, that it is highly effective at correctly
determining whether or not a particular user is a child (see section 12 (6) ).

12.4

In deciding which kinds and uses of age verification or age estimation to
recommend for the purpose of compliance with the duty set out in section
12(3)(a), OFCOM must have regard to their guidance under section 82 that gives
examples of kinds and uses of age verification and age estimation that are, or
are not, highly effective at correctly determining whether or not a particular
user is a child.

12.5

Nothing in sub-paragraph (2) is to be read as allowing OFCOM to recommend, for
the purpose of compliance with the duty set out in section 12(3)(a) by
providers subject to the requirement in section 12 (4) , a kind or use of age
verification or age estimation which does not meet the requirement to be
highly effective as mentioned in section 12 (6) .

12.6

A code of practice that recommends the use of age assurance for the purpose of
compliance with the duties set out in section 12(2) or (3) must also describe
measures recommended for the purpose of compliance with the duties set out in—

12.6.a

section 12 (9) ,  (11)  and  (13)  (inclusion of clear information in terms of
service), and

12.6.b

section 21(2) and (3) (see, in particular, section 21(5)(e) (complaints about
age assurance)).

12.7

A code of practice that recommends the use of age assurance for the purpose of
compliance with the duties set out in section 29(2) or (3) must also describe
measures recommended for the purpose of compliance with the duties set out in—

12.7.a

section 29(5) and (8) (inclusion of clear information in publicly available
statement), and

12.7.b

section 32(2) and (3) (see, in particular, section 32(5)(d) (complaints about
age assurance)).

12.8

A code of practice may—

12.8.a

refer to industry or technical standards for age assurance (where they exist);

12.8.b

elaborate on the principles mentioned in paragraphs (a) and (c) to (g) of sub-
paragraph (2).

12.9

In this paragraph “ age assurance ” means age verification or age estimation,
and see in particular section 230 (4)  (self-declaration of age not to be
regarded as age verification or age estimation).

##### Content of codes of practice: proactive technology

13

13.1

If OFCOM consider it appropriate to do so, and in accordance with the
principles to which they must have regard (see paragraphs  1  and  2  and, in
particular,  10(2) ), they may include in a code of practice a measure
describing the use of a kind of technology.

13.2

But there are constraints, set out in the rest of this paragraph, on OFCOM’s
power to include in a code of practice a measure describing the use of
proactive technology as a way (or one of the ways) of complying with a duty
set out in this Act (a “proactive technology measure”).

13.3

A proactive technology measure may be recommended only for the purpose of
compliance with any of the duties set out in—

13.3.a

section 10 (2)  or  (3)  (illegal content),

13.3.b

section 12 (2)  or  (3)  (children’s online safety),

13.3.c

section 27 (2)  or  (3)  (illegal content),

13.3.d

section 29 (2)  or  (3)  (children’s online safety), or

13.3.e

section 38 (1)  or 39 (1)  (fraudulent advertising).

13.4

A proactive technology measure may relate to the use of a kind of technology
on or in relation to any Part 3 service or any part of such a service, but if
the technology operates (or may operate) by analysing user-generated content
or metadata relating to such content, the measure may not recommend the use of
the technology to analyse user-generated content communicated privately, or
metadata relating to user-generated content communicated privately.

13.5

A proactive technology measure may be included in a code of practice in
relation to Part 3 services of a particular kind or size only if OFCOM are
satisfied that use of the technology in question by such services would be
proportionate to the risk of harm that the measure is designed to safeguard
against (taking into account, in particular, the risk profile for the time
being published by OFCOM under section 98 relating to such services).

13.6

In deciding whether to include a proactive technology measure in a code of
practice, OFCOM must have regard to the degree of accuracy, effectiveness and
lack of bias achieved by the technology in question, and may—

13.6.a

refer in the code of practice to industry or technical standards for the
technology (where they exist);

13.6.b

set out principles in the code of practice designed to ensure that the
technology or its use is (so far as possible) accurate, effective and free of
bias.

13.7

Sub-paragraph  (6)  does not apply in relation to proactive technology which
is a kind of age verification or age estimation technology.

##### General

14

A code of practice may make different provision for different purposes and
may, in particular—

14.a

make different provision with regard to—

14.a.i

user-to-user services, and

14.a.ii

search services;

14.b

make different provision with regard to user-to-user services of different
kinds or search services of different kinds; and

14.c

otherwise differentiate between Part 3 services, and between providers of such
services, in such manner as OFCOM consider appropriate.

15

A code of practice may apply in relation to a person who provides a Part 3
service from outside the United Kingdom.

##### Interpretation

16

In this Schedule—

“ code of practice ” means a code of practice under section 41; “ search
results ” has the meaning given by section 57 (3) ; “ user-generated content ”
has the meaning given by section 55 (see subsections  (3)  and  (4)  of that
section).

  Terrorism offences

Section 59

1

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Terrorism Act 2000—

1.a

section 11 (membership of a proscribed organisation);

1.b

section 12(1) (inviting support for a proscribed organisation);

1.c

section 12(1A) (expressing an opinion or belief supportive of a proscribed
organisation);

1.d

section 12(2) (arranging a meeting supportive of a proscribed organisation);

1.e

section 13(1A) (publishing image of uniform of proscribed organisation);

1.f

section 15 (terrorist fund-raising);

1.g

section 16(1) (use of money or property for terrorist purposes);

1.h

section 16(2) (possession of money or property for terrorist purposes);

1.i

section 17 (involvement in terrorist funding arrangements);

1.j

section 18 (laundering of terrorist property);

1.k

section 54(1) (providing weapons training);

1.l

section 54(3) (inviting another to receive weapons training);

1.m

section 56 (directing a terrorist organisation);

1.n

section 58 (collection of information likely to be of use to a terrorist);

1.o

section 58A (publishing information about members of the armed forces etc);

1.p

sections 59 to 61 (inciting terrorism outside the United Kingdom).

2

An offence under section 113 of the Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act
2001 (use of noxious substances or things).

3

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Terrorism Act 2006—

3.a

section 1 (encouragement of terrorism);

3.b

section 2 (dissemination of terrorist publications);

3.c

section 5 (preparation of terrorist acts);

3.d

section 6 (training for terrorism);

3.e

section 11 (terrorist threats relating to radioactive devices etc).

##### Inchoate offences

4

4.1

An offence of attempting or conspiring to commit an offence specified in this
Schedule.

4.2

An offence under Part 2 of the Serious Crime Act 2007 (encouraging or
assisting) in relation to an offence specified in this Schedule, or (in
Scotland) inciting a person to commit such an offence.

4.3

An offence of aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring the commission of an
offence specified in this Schedule, or (in Scotland) being involved art and
part in the commission of such an offence.

  Child sexual exploitation and abuse offences

Section 59

##### England and Wales, and Northern Ireland

1

An offence under section 2 of the Obscene Publications Act 1959 relating to an
obscene article tending to deprave and corrupt others by encouraging them to
commit an offence specified in paragraph  2 ,  4 ,  5 ,  7  or  8 .

2

An offence under section 1 of the Protection of Children Act 1978 (indecent
photographs of children).

3

An offence under Article 3 of the Protection of Children (Northern Ireland)
Order 1978 ( S.I. 1978/1047 (N.I. 17) ) (indecent photographs of children).

4

An offence under section 160 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 (possession of
indecent photograph of a child).

5

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Sexual Offences Act
2003—

5.a

section 8 (causing or inciting a child under 13 to engage in sexual activity);

5.b

section 10 (causing or inciting a child to engage in sexual activity);

5.c

section 11 (engaging in sexual activity in the presence of a child);

5.d

section 12 (causing a child to watch a sexual act);

5.e

section 13 (child sex offences committed by children or young persons);

5.f

section 14 (arranging or facilitating commission of a child sex offence);

5.g

section 15 (meeting a child following sexual grooming etc);

5.h

section 15A (sexual communication with a child);

5.i

section 47 (paying for sexual services of a child);

5.j

section 48 (causing or inciting sexual exploitation of a child);

5.k

section 49 (controlling a child in relation to sexual exploitation);

5.l

section 50 (arranging or facilitating sexual exploitation of a child).

6

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Sexual Offences
(Northern Ireland) Order 2008 ( S.I. 2008/1769 (N.I. 2) )—

6.a

Article 15 (causing or inciting a child under 13 to engage in sexual
activity);

6.b

Article 17 (causing or inciting a child to engage in sexual activity);

6.c

Article 18 (engaging in sexual activity in the presence of a child);

6.d

Article 19 (causing a child to watch a sexual act);

6.e

Article 20 (sexual offences against children committed by children or young
persons);

6.f

Article 21 (arranging or facilitating commission of a sex offence against a
child);

6.g

Article 22 (meeting a child following sexual grooming etc);

6.h

Article 22A (sexual communication with a child);

6.i

Article 37 (paying for sexual services of a child);

6.j

Article 38 (causing or inciting child prostitution or pornography);

6.k

Article 39 (controlling a child prostitute or a child involved in
pornography);

6.l

Article 40 (arranging or facilitating child prostitution or pornography).

7

An offence under section 62 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 (possession
of prohibited image of a child).

8

An offence under section 69 of the Serious Crime Act 2015 (possession of
paedophile manual).

###### Inchoate offences

9

9.1

An offence of attempting or conspiring to commit an offence specified in this
Part.

9.2

An offence under Part 2 of the Serious Crime Act 2007 (encouraging or
assisting) in relation to an offence specified in this Part.

9.3

An offence of aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring the commission of an
offence specified in this Part.

##### Scotland

10

An offence under either of the following provisions of the Civic Government
(Scotland) Act 1982—

10.a

section 52 (indecent photographs etc of children);

10.b

section 52A (possession of indecent photographs of children).

11

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Protection of Children
and Prevention of Sexual Offences (Scotland) Act 2005—

11.a

section 1 (meeting a child following certain preliminary contact);

11.b

section 9 (paying for sexual services of a child);

11.c

section 10 (causing or inciting provision by child of sexual services or child
pornography);

11.d

section 11 (controlling a child providing sexual services or involved in
pornography);

11.e

section 12 (arranging or facilitating provision by child of sexual services or
child pornography).

12

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Sexual Offences
(Scotland) Act 2009—

12.a

section 21 (causing a young child to participate in a sexual activity);

12.b

section 23 (causing a young child to look at a sexual image);

12.c

section 24 (communicating indecently with a young child etc);

12.d

section 31 (causing an older child to participate in a sexual activity);

12.e

section 33 (causing an older child to look at a sexual image);

12.f

section 34 (communicating indecently with an older child etc);

12.g

section 54 (incitement to commit certain sexual acts outside Scotland).

###### Inchoate offences

13

13.1

An offence of attempting or conspiring to commit an offence specified in this
Part.

13.2

An offence of inciting a person to commit an offence specified in this Part.

13.3

An offence of aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring the commission of an
offence specified in this Part, or being involved art and part in the
commission of such an offence.

Priority offences

Section 59

##### Assisting suicide

1

An offence under section 2 of the Suicide Act 1961 (assisting suicide etc).

2

An offence under section 13 of the  Criminal Justice Act (Northern Ireland)
1966 (c. 20 (N.I.))  (assisting suicide etc).

##### Threats to kill

3

An offence under section 16 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861
(threats to kill).

##### Public order offences, harassment, stalking and fear or provocation of violence

4

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Public Order Act 1986—

4.a

section 4 (fear or provocation of violence);

4.b

section 4A (intentional harassment, alarm or distress);

4.c

section 5 (harassment, alarm or distress);

5

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Public Order Act 1986—

5.a

section 18 (use of words or behaviour or display of written material);

5.b

section 19 (publishing or distributing written material);

5.c

section 21 (distributing, showing or playing a recording);

5.d

section 29B (use of words or behaviour or display of written material);

5.e

section 29C (publishing or distributing written material);

5.f

section 29E (distributing, showing or playing a recording).

6

An offence under section 50A of the Criminal Law (Consolidation) (Scotland)
Act 1995 (racially-aggravated harassment).

7

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Protection from
Harassment Act 1997—

7.a

section 2 (harassment);

7.b

section 2A (stalking);

7.c

section 4 (putting people in fear of violence);

7.d

section 4A (stalking involving fear of violence or serious alarm or distress).

8

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Protection from
Harassment (Northern Ireland) Order 1997 ( S.I. 1997/1180 (N.I. 9) )—

8.a

Article 4 (harassment);

8.b

Article 6 (putting people in fear of violence).

9

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Crime and Disorder Act
1998—

9.a

section 31 (racially or religiously aggravated public order offences);

9.b

section 32 (racially or religiously aggravated harassment etc).

10

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Criminal Justice and
Licensing (Scotland) Act  2010 (asp 13) —

10.a

section 38 (threatening or abusive behaviour);

10.b

section 39 (stalking).

11

An offence under section 76 of the Serious Crime Act 2015 (controlling or
coercive behaviour in an intimate or family relationship).

##### Drugs and psychoactive substances

12

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Misuse of Drugs Act
1971—

12.a

section 4(3) (unlawful supply, or offer to supply, of controlled drugs);

12.b

section 9A (prohibition of supply etc of articles for administering or
preparing controlled drugs);

12.c

section 19 (inciting any other offence under that Act).

13

An offence under section 5 of the Psychoactive Substances Act 2016 (supplying,
or offering to supply, a psychoactive substance).

##### Firearms and other weapons

14

An offence under section 1(1) or (2) of the Restriction of Offensive Weapons
Act 1959 (sale etc of flick knife etc).

15

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Firearms Act 1968—

15.a

section 1(1) (purchase etc of firearms or ammunition without certificate);

15.b

section 2(1) (purchase etc of shot gun without certificate);

15.c

section 3(1) (dealing etc in firearms or ammunition by way of trade or
business without being registered);

15.d

section 3(2) (sale etc of firearms or ammunition to person other than
registered dealer);

15.e

section 5(1), (1A) or (2A) (purchase, sale etc of prohibited weapons);

15.f

section 21(5) (sale etc of firearms or ammunition to persons previously
convicted of crime);

15.g

section 22(1) (purchase etc of firearms or ammunition by person under 18);

15.h

section 24 (supplying firearms to minors);

15.i

section 24A (supplying imitation firearms to minors).

16

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Crossbows Act 1987—

16.a

section 1 (sale and letting on hire of crossbow);

16.b

section 2 (purchase and hiring of crossbow).

17

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Criminal Justice Act
1988—

17.a

section 141(1) or (4) (sale etc of offensive weapons);

17.b

section 141A (sale of knives etc to persons under 18).

18

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Criminal Justice
(Northern Ireland) Order 1996 ( S.I. 1996/3160 (N.I. 24) )—

18.a

Article 53 (sale etc of knives);

18.b

Article 54 (sale of knives etc to minors).

19

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Knives Act 1997—

19.a

section 1 (unlawful marketing of knives);

19.b

section 2 (publication of material in connection with marketing of knives).

20

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Firearms (Northern
Ireland) Order 2004 ( S.I. 2004/702 (N.I. 3) )—

20.a

Article 24 (sale etc of firearms or ammunition without certificate);

20.b

Article 37(1) (sale etc of firearms or ammunition to person without
certificate etc);

20.c

Article 45(1) or (2) (purchase, sale etc of prohibited weapons);

20.d

Article 63(8) (sale etc of firearms or ammunition to people who have been in
prison etc);

20.e

Article 66A (supplying imitation firearms to minors).

21

An offence under section 36(1)(c) or (d) of the Violent Crime Reduction Act
2006 (sale etc of realistic imitation firearms).

22

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Air Weapons and
Licensing (Scotland) Act  2015 (asp 10) —

22.a

section 2 (requirement for air weapon certificate);

22.b

section 24 (restrictions on sale etc of air weapons).

##### Assisting illegal immigration

23

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Immigration Act 1971—

23.a

section 24(A1), (B1), (C1) or (D1) (illegal entry and similar offences);

23.b

section 25 (assisting unlawful immigration).

##### Human trafficking

24

An offence under section 2 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (human trafficking).

25

An offence under section 1 of the Human Trafficking and Exploitation
(Scotland) Act  2015 (asp 12)  (human trafficking).

26

An offence under section 2 of the  Human Trafficking and Exploitation
(Criminal Justice and Support for Victims) Act (Northern Ireland) 2015 (c. 2
(N.I.))  (human trafficking).

##### Sexual exploitation

27

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Sexual Offences Act
2003—

27.a

section 52 (causing or inciting prostitution for gain);

27.b

section 53 (controlling prostitution for gain).

28

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Sexual Offences
(Northern Ireland) Order 2008 ( S.I. 2008/1769 (N.I. 2) )—

28.a

Article 62 (causing or inciting prostitution for gain);

28.b

Article 63 (controlling prostitution for gain).

##### Sexual images

29

An offence under section 63 of the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008
(possession of extreme pornographic images).

30

An offence under section 33 of the Criminal Justice and Courts Act 2015
(disclosing, or threatening to disclose, private sexual photographs and films
with intent to cause distress).

31

An offence under section 2 of the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual Harm (Scotland)
Act  2016 (asp 22)  (disclosing, or threatening to disclose, an intimate
photograph or film).

##### Proceeds of crime

32

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Proceeds of Crime Act
2002—

32.a

section 327 (concealing etc criminal property);

32.b

section 328 (arrangements facilitating acquisition etc of criminal property);

32.c

section 329 (acquisition, use and possession of criminal property).

##### Fraud

33

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Fraud Act 2006—

33.a

section 2 (fraud by false representation);

33.b

section 4 (fraud by abuse of position);

33.c

section 7 (making or supplying articles for use in frauds);

33.d

section 9 (participating in fraudulent business carried on by sole trader
etc).

34

An offence under section 49(3) of the Criminal Justice and Licensing
(Scotland) Act 2010 (articles for use in fraud).

##### Financial services

35

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000—

35.a

section 23 (contravention of prohibition on carrying on regulated activity
unless authorised or exempt);

35.b

section 24 (false claims to be authorised or exempt);

35.c

section 25 (contravention of restrictions on financial promotion).

36

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Financial Services Act
2012—

36.a

section 89 (misleading statements);

36.b

section 90 (misleading impressions).

##### Foreign interference

37

An offence under section 13 of the National Security Act 2023 (foreign
interference).

##### Animal welfare

38

An offence under section 4(1) of the Animal Welfare Act 2006 (unnecessary
suffering of an animal).

##### Inchoate offences

39

39.1

An offence of attempting or conspiring to commit an offence specified in this
Schedule.

39.2

An offence under Part 2 of the Serious Crime Act 2007 (encouraging or
assisting) in relation to an offence specified in this Schedule, or (in
Scotland) inciting a person to commit such an offence.

39.3

An offence of aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring the commission of an
offence specified in this Schedule, or (in Scotland) being involved art and
part in the commission of such an offence.

  Transparency reports by providers of Category 1 services, Category 2A
services and Category 2B services

Section 77

##### Matters about which information may be required: user-to-user part of service

1

The incidence of illegal content, content that is harmful to children,
relevant content and content to which section 15 (2)  applies on a service.

2

The dissemination of illegal content, content that is harmful to children,
relevant content and content to which section 15 (2)  applies by means of a
service.

3

The number of users who are assumed to have encountered illegal content,
content that is harmful to children, relevant content or content to which
section 15 (2)  applies by means of the service.

4

The formulation, development, scope and application of the terms of service.

5

The systems and processes for users to report content which they consider to
be illegal content, content that is harmful to children or relevant content.

6

The systems and processes that a provider operates to deal with illegal
content, content that is harmful to children and relevant content, including
systems and processes for identifying such content and taking it down.

7

Functionalities designed to help users manage risks relating to content that
is harmful to children and relevant content.

8

Features, including functionalities, that a provider considers may contribute
to risks of harm to individuals using the service, and measures taken or in
use by the provider to mitigate and manage those risks.

9

The design and operation of algorithms which affect the display, promotion,
restriction or recommendation of illegal content, content that is harmful to
children, relevant content or content to which section 15 (2)  applies.

10

Measures taken or in use by a provider to comply with any duty set out in
Chapter 2 or 4 of Part 3 or section 38 (including in particular measures that
are described in a code of practice under section 41).

11

Measures taken or in use by a provider to comply with the duty set out in
section 64 (1)  (user identity verification).

12

Arrangements that a provider has in place for the reporting (in the United
Kingdom or elsewhere) of content relating to child sexual exploitation and
abuse, and measures taken or in use by a provider to comply with a requirement
under section 66.

13

Measures taken or in use by a provider to comply with any duty set out in
section 71 or 72 (terms of service).

14

Measures taken or in use by a provider to comply with any duty set out in
section 75 (deceased child users).

15

The systems and processes by which a provider assesses the risk of harm to
individuals from the presence of illegal content or content that is harmful to
children—

15.a

when the service is initially being designed or developed,

15.b

when any further development or update to the service is being considered, and

15.c

while the service is in operation.

16

The systems and processes that a provider operates—

16.a

to direct users of the service to information about how they can protect
themselves from harm in relation to illegal content and content that is
harmful to children, and

16.b

to counteract or provide support to users of the service in relation to
illegal content and content that is harmful to children present on the
service.

17

Co-operation by a provider with government, regulatory or other public sector
bodies in the United Kingdom, in particular those involved in the enforcement
of the criminal law.

18

Measures taken or in use by a provider to provide for a higher standard of
protection for children than for adults.

19

Measures taken or in use by a provider to improve the media literacy of users,
and an evaluation of the effectiveness of such measures.

20

Any other measures taken or in use by a provider which relate to online safety
matters.

##### Matters about which information may be required: search engine

21

The incidence of illegal search content and search content that is harmful to
children on a service.

22

The number of users who are assumed to have encountered illegal search content
or search content that is harmful to children.

23

The formulation, development, scope and application of the statements of
policies and procedures mentioned in sections 27 (5)  and 29 (5) .

24

The systems and processes for users to report search content which they
consider to be illegal content or content that is harmful to children, or
other content which they consider breaches any statements of policies and
procedures which have been made publicly available by the provider of a
service.

25

The systems and processes that a provider operates to deal with illegal search
content and search content that is harmful to children, including systems and
processes for identifying such content and minimising the risk of those kinds
of content being encountered by means of the service.

26

Functionalities designed to help users manage risks relating to search content
that is harmful to children.

27

The design and operation of algorithms which affect the display, promotion,
restriction or recommendation of illegal search content or search content that
is harmful to children.

28

Measures taken or in use by a provider to comply with any duty set out in
Chapter 3 or 4 of Part 3 or section 39 (including in particular measures that
are described in a code of practice under section 41).

29

Arrangements that a provider has in place for the reporting (in the United
Kingdom or elsewhere) of content relating to child sexual exploitation and
abuse, and measures taken or in use by a provider to comply with a requirement
under section 66.

30

Measures taken or in use by a provider to comply with any duty set out in
section 75 (deceased child users).

31

The systems and processes by which a provider assesses the risk of harm to
individuals from illegal search content or search content that is harmful to
children—

31.a

when the service is initially being designed or developed,

31.b

when any further development or update to the service is being considered, and

31.c

while the service is in operation.

32

The systems and processes that a provider operates—

32.a

to direct users of the service to information about how they can protect
themselves from harm in relation to illegal content and content that is
harmful to children, and

32.b

to counteract or provide support to users of the service in relation to
illegal search content and search content that is harmful to children.

33

Co-operation by a provider with government, regulatory or other public sector
bodies in the United Kingdom, in particular those involved in the enforcement
of the criminal law.

34

Measures taken or in use by a provider to provide a higher standard of
protection for children than for adults.

35

Measures taken or in use by a provider to improve the media literacy of users,
and an evaluation of the effectiveness of such measures.

36

Any other measures taken or in use by a provider which relate to online safety
matters.

##### Further provision and interpretation

37

When determining which information to require in a notice under section 77(1)
in relation to a particular service, OFCOM must take into account—

37.a

the kind of service it is;

37.b

the functionalities of the service;

37.c

the number of users of the service;

37.d

the capacity of the provider;

37.e

the duties set out in Chapter 2 or 3 of Part 3 or Chapters 1 to 4 of Part 4
that apply in relation to the service;

37.f

the proportion of users of the service who are children.

38

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

38.a

amend Part 1 or Part 2 of this Schedule so as to add further matters about
which information may be required, or to vary or omit matters about which
information may be required, and

38.b

amend paragraph  37  in connection with any such amendment.

39

The Secretary of State must consult OFCOM before making regulations under
paragraph  38 .

40

In the application of Part 2 of this Schedule to a combined service,
references to statements of policies and procedures include references to
provisions of the terms of service which relate to the search engine.

41

41.1

For the purposes of this Schedule, content of a particular kind is “relevant
content” if—

41.1.a

a term of service, other than a term of service within sub-paragraph (2),
indicates (in whatever words) that the presence of content of that kind is
prohibited on the service or that users’ access to content of that kind is
restricted, and

41.1.b

it is regulated user-generated content.

41.2

The terms of service within this sub-paragraph are as follows—

41.2.a

terms of service which make provision of the kind mentioned in section 10(5)
(protecting individuals from illegal content) or 12 (9)  (protecting children
from content that is harmful to children);

41.2.b

terms of service which deal with the treatment of consumer content.

41.3

References in this Schedule to relevant content are to content that is
relevant content in relation to the service in question.

41.4

The reference in sub-paragraph (1) to users’ access to content being
restricted is to be construed in accordance with sections 58 and 236 (6) .

42

In this Schedule—

      “ consumer content ” has the same meaning as in Chapter 3 of Part 4 (see
section 74(3));           “ content that is harmful to children ” has the same
meaning as in Part 3 (see section 60);           “ illegal content ” has the
same meaning as in Part 3 (see section 59);           “ illegal search content
” means search content that is illegal content;           “ regulated user-
generated content ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 (see section 55), and
references to such content are to content that is regulated user-generated
content in relation to the service in question;           “ search content ”
has the same meaning as in Part 3 (see section 57);           “ users ” means
United Kingdom users (see section 227), except in paragraphs  16(a)  and
32(a)  where “ users ” means individuals in the United Kingdom who are users
of a service.

  Certain internet services not subject to duties relating to regulated
provider pornographic content

Section 80

##### Internal business services (entire internet service)

1

1.1

An internet service, other than a user-to-user service or a search service, in
relation to which the conditions in sub-paragraph  (2)  are met.

1.2

The conditions are—

1.2.a

the internet service is an internal resource or tool for a business, or for
more than one business carried on by the same person,

1.2.b

the person carrying on the business (or businesses) (“ P ”) is the provider of
the internet service, and

1.2.c

the internet service is available only to a closed group of people comprising
some or all of the following—

1.2.c.i

where P is an individual or individuals, that individual or those individuals,

1.2.c.ii

where P is an entity, officers of P,

1.2.c.iii

persons who work for P (including as employees or volunteers) for the purposes
of any activities of the business (or any of the businesses) in question, and

1.2.c.iv

any other persons authorised by a person within sub-paragraph (i), (ii) or
(iii) to use the service for the purposes of any activities of the business
(or any of the businesses) in question (for example, a contractor, consultant
or auditor, or in the case of an educational institution, pupils or students).

1.3

In this paragraph—

      “ business ” includes trade, profession, educational institution or
other concern (whether or not carried on for profit);           “ officer ”
includes a director, manager, partner, associate, secretary, governor, trustee
or other similar officer.

##### Internal business services (part of internet service)

2

2.1

An internet service, other than a user-to-user service or a search service,
within sub-paragraph  (2) .

2.2

An internet service is within this sub-paragraph if—

2.2.a

the conditions in paragraph  1(2)  are met in relation to a part of the
service, and

2.2.b

no regulated provider pornographic content is published or displayed on the
rest of the service.

2.3

In sub-paragraph  (2)(b) , “ the rest of the service ” means all parts of the
internet service other than the part in relation to which the conditions in
paragraph  1(2)  are met.

##### Services provided by public bodies

3

3.1

An internet service, other than a user-to-user service or a search service,
which is provided by a public body.

3.2

An internet service is “provided by a public body” if—

3.2.a

both of the following conditions are met in relation to the service—

3.2.a.i

the provider of the service is a public authority within the meaning of
section 6 of the Human Rights Act 1998, and

3.2.a.ii

the service is provided in the exercise of public functions only,

3.2.b

the provider of the service is Parliament, either House of Parliament, the
Scottish Parliament, Senedd Cymru, the Northern Ireland Assembly or a person
acting on behalf of any of those institutions,

3.2.c

the provider of the service is a foreign sovereign power, or

3.2.d

both of the following conditions are met in relation to the service—

3.2.d.i

the provider of the service is an entity formed under the law of a country
outside the United Kingdom, which exercises functions of a public nature, and

3.2.d.ii

the service is provided in the exercise of such functions only.

3.3

But an internet service is not within this paragraph if—

3.3.a

the provider of the service is a person providing education or childcare, and

3.3.b

the service is provided for the purposes of that education or childcare.

See paragraph  4 .

3.4

This paragraph is without prejudice to the fact that this Act does not apply
in relation to an internet service provided by the Crown.

3.5

In this paragraph, “ public function ” means a function that is a function of
a public nature for the purposes of the Human Rights Act 1998.

##### Services provided by persons providing education or childcare

4

4.1

An internet service, other than a user-to-user service or a search service—

4.1.a

of which the provider is—

4.1.a.i

the person with legal responsibility for education or childcare of a
description listed in Part 2 of Schedule 1 (“the responsible person”), or
where the responsible person is a body, a member of that body, or

4.1.a.ii

a person who is employed or engaged to provide education or childcare of a
description listed in Part 2 of Schedule 1, and who is subject to safeguarding
duties which relate to the provision of that education or childcare, and

4.1.b

which is provided for the purposes of that education or childcare.

4.2

In sub-paragraph  (1)(a)(ii) , “ safeguarding duties ” means duties or
requirements which are related to the safeguarding of children arising under
enactments other than this Act, under guidance or requirements (however
referred to) produced under enactments other than this Act, or as a result of
contractual arrangements made by the responsible person.

4.3

For the purposes of this paragraph, the person with legal responsibility for
education or childcare of a particular description is the person with legal
responsibility for its day-to-day provision (for example, the person with
legal responsibility for a particular school), rather than any other person
who has a duty to ensure that, in general, education or childcare of that
description (or education or childcare which includes education or childcare
of that description) is provided.

##### On-demand programme services 

5

5.1

An internet service that is an on-demand programme service  or a non-UK on-
demand programme service that is a Tier 1 service .

5.2

In this paragraph and paragraph  6 , “ on-demand programme service ”   , “non-
UK on-demand programme service” and “Tier 1 service” have   the same meaning
as in the Communications Act (see   sections 368A,  368AA  and  368HA   of
that Act).

##### On-demand programme services 

6

6.1

An internet service within sub-paragraph  (2) .

6.2

An internet service is within this sub-paragraph if—

6.2.a

part of the service is an on-demand programme service  or a non-UK on-demand
programme service that is a Tier 1 service , and

6.2.b

no regulated provider pornographic content is published or displayed on the
rest of the service.

6.3

In sub-paragraph  (2)(b) , “ the rest of the service ” means all parts of the
internet service other than the part which is an on-demand programme service
or a non-UK on-demand programme service that is a Tier 1 service .

##### Interpretation

7

In this Schedule—

      “ education ” and “ childcare ” have the same meaning as in Schedule 1
(see Part 3 of that Schedule);           “ enactment ” includes—         an
enactment contained in subordinate legislation (within the meaning of the
Interpretation Act 1978),           an enactment contained in, or in an
instrument made under, an Act of the Scottish Parliament,           an
enactment contained in, or in an instrument made under, a Measure or Act of
Senedd Cymru, and           an enactment contained in, or in an instrument
made under, Northern Ireland legislation;                 “ regulated provider
pornographic content ” and “ published or displayed ” have the same meaning as
in Part 5 (see section 79).

  Recovery of OFCOM’s initial costs

Section 89

##### Recovery of initial costs

1

1.1

This Schedule concerns the recovery by OFCOM of an amount equal to the
aggregate of the amounts of WTA receipts which, in accordance with section
401(1) of the Communications Act and OFCOM’s statement under that section, are
retained by OFCOM for the purpose of meeting their initial costs.

1.2

OFCOM must seek to recover the amount described in sub-paragraph (1) (“the
total amount of OFCOM’s initial costs”) by charging providers of regulated
services fees under this Schedule (“additional fees”).

1.3

In this Schedule—

      “ initial costs ” means the costs incurred by OFCOM before the first day
of the initial charging year on—         preparations for the exercise of
their online safety functions, or           the exercise of their online
safety functions;                 “ WTA receipts ” means the amounts described
in section 401(1)(a) of the Communications Act which are paid to OFCOM
(certain receipts under the Wireless Telegraphy Act 2006).

##### Recovery of initial costs: first phase

2

2.1

The first phase of OFCOM’s recovery of their initial costs is to take place
over a period of several charging years to be specified in regulations under
paragraph  7  (“specified charging years”).

2.2

Over that period OFCOM must, in aggregate, charge providers of regulated
services additional fees of an amount equal to the total amount of OFCOM’s
initial costs.

2.3

OFCOM may not charge providers additional fees in respect of any charging year
which falls before the first specified charging year.

2.4

OFCOM may require a provider to pay an additional fee in respect of a charging
year only if the provider is required to pay a fee in respect of that year
under section 84 (and references in this Schedule to charging providers are to
be read accordingly).

2.5

The amount of an additional fee payable by a provider is to be calculated in
accordance with regulations under paragraph  7 .

##### Further recovery of initial costs

3

3.1

The second phase of OFCOM’s recovery of their initial costs begins after the
end of the last of the specified charging years.

3.2

As soon as reasonably practicable after the end of the last of the specified
charging years, OFCOM must publish a statement specifying—

3.2.a

the amount which is at that time the recoverable amount (see paragraph  6 ),
and

3.2.b

the amounts of the variables involved in the calculation of the recoverable
amount.

3.3

OFCOM’s statement must also specify the amount which is equal to that portion
of the recoverable amount which is not likely to be paid or recovered.

The amount so specified is referred to in sub-paragraphs (4) and (5) as “the
outstanding amount”.

3.4

Unless a determination is made as mentioned in sub-paragraph (5), OFCOM must,
in aggregate, charge providers of regulated services additional fees of an
amount equal to the outstanding amount.

3.5

The Secretary of State may, as soon as reasonably practicable after the
publication of OFCOM’s statement, make a determination specifying an amount by
which the outstanding amount is to be reduced, and in that case OFCOM must, in
aggregate, charge providers of regulated services additional fees of an amount
equal to the difference between the outstanding amount and the amount
specified in the determination.

3.6

Additional fees mentioned in sub-paragraph (4) or (5) must be charged in
respect of the charging year immediately following the last of the specified
charging years (“year 1”).

3.7

The process set out in sub-paragraphs (2) to (6) is to be repeated in
successive charging years, applying those sub-paragraphs as if—

3.7.a

in sub-paragraph (2), the reference to the end of the last of the specified
charging years were to the end of year 1 (and so on for successive charging
years);

3.7.b

in sub-paragraph (6), the reference to year 1 were to the charging year
immediately following year 1 (and so on for successive charging years).

3.8

Any determination by the Secretary of State under this paragraph must be
published in such manner as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

3.9

Sub-paragraphs (4) and (5) of paragraph  2  apply to the charging of
additional fees under this paragraph as they apply to the charging of
additional fees under that paragraph.

3.10

The process set out in this paragraph comes to an end in accordance with
paragraph  4 .

##### End of the recovery process

4

4.1

The process set out in paragraph  3  comes to an end if a statement by OFCOM
under that paragraph records that—

4.1.a

the recoverable amount is nil, or

4.1.b

all of the recoverable amount is likely to be paid or recovered.

4.2

Or the Secretary of State may bring that process to an end by making a
determination that OFCOM are not to embark on another round of charging
providers of regulated services additional fees.

4.3

The earliest time when such a determination may be made is after the
publication of OFCOM’s first statement under paragraph  3 .

4.4

A determination under sub-paragraph (2)—

4.4.a

must be made as soon as reasonably practicable after the publication of a
statement by OFCOM under paragraph  3 ;

4.4.b

must be published in such manner as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate.

4.5

A determination under sub-paragraph (2) does not affect OFCOM’s power—

4.5.a

to bring proceedings for the recovery of the whole or part of an additional
fee for which a provider became liable at any time before the determination
was made, or

4.5.b

to act in accordance with the procedure set out in section 141 in relation to
such a liability.

##### Providers for part of a year only

5

5.1

For the purposes of this Schedule, the “provider” of a regulated service, in
relation to a charging year, includes a person who is the provider of the
service for part of the year.

5.2

Where a person is the provider of a regulated service for part of a charging
year only, OFCOM may refund all or part of an additional fee paid to OFCOM
under paragraph  2  or  3  by that provider in respect of that year.

##### Calculation of the recoverable amount

6

For the purposes of a statement by OFCOM under paragraph  3 , the “recoverable
amount” is given by the formula—

  C - ( F - R ) - D       where—         C is the total amount of OFCOM’s
initial costs,           F is the aggregate amount of the additional fees
received by OFCOM at the time of the statement in question,           R is the
aggregate amount of the additional fees received by OFCOM that at the time of
the statement in question have been, or are due to be, refunded (see paragraph
5(2) ), and           D is the amount specified in a determination made by the
Secretary of State under paragraph  3  (see paragraph 3(5)) at a time before
the statement in question or, where more than one such determination has been
made, the sum of the amounts specified in those determinations.

##### Regulations about recovery of initial costs

7

7.1

The Secretary of State must make regulations making such provision as the
Secretary of State considers appropriate in connection with the recovery by
OFCOM of their initial costs.

7.2

The regulations must include provision as set out in sub-paragraphs (3), (4)
and (6).

7.3

The regulations must specify the total amount of OFCOM’s initial costs.

7.4

For the purposes of paragraph  2 , the regulations must specify—

7.4.a

the charging years in respect of which additional fees are to be charged, and

7.4.b

the proportion of the total amount of initial costs which OFCOM must seek to
recover in each of the specified charging years.

7.5

The following rules apply to provision made in accordance with sub-paragraph
(4)(a)—

7.5.a

the initial charging year may not be specified;

7.5.b

only consecutive charging years may be specified;

7.5.c

at least three charging years must be specified;

7.5.d

no more than five charging years may be specified.

7.6

The regulations must specify the computation model that OFCOM must use to
calculate fees payable by individual providers of regulated services under
paragraphs  2  and  3  (and that computation model may be different for
different charging years).

7.7

The regulations may make provision about what OFCOM may or must do if the
operation of this Schedule results in them recovering more than the total
amount of their initial costs.

7.8

The regulations may amend this Schedule or provide for its application with
modifications in particular cases.

7.9

Before making regulations under this paragraph, the Secretary of State must
consult—

7.9.a

OFCOM,

7.9.b

providers of regulated user-to-user services,

7.9.c

providers of regulated search services,

7.9.d

providers of internet services within section 80(2), and

7.9.e

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

##### Interpretation

8

In this Schedule—

      “ additional fees ” means fees chargeable under this Schedule in respect
of the recovery of OFCOM’s initial costs;           “ charging year ” has the
meaning given by section 90;           “ initial charging year ” has the
meaning given by section 90;           “ initial costs ” has the meaning given
by paragraph  1(3) , and the “total amount” of initial costs means the amount
described in paragraph  1(1) ;           “ recoverable amount ” has the
meaning given by paragraph  6 ;           “ specified charging year ” means a
charging year specified in regulations under paragraph  7  for the purposes of
paragraph  2 .

Categories of regulated user-to-user services and regulated search services:
regulations

Section 94

##### Regulations specifying threshold conditions for categories of Part 3 services

1

1.1

The Secretary of State must make regulations specifying conditions (“Category
1 threshold conditions”) for the user-to-user part of regulated user-to-user
services relating to each of the following—

1.1.a

number of users of the user-to-user part of the service,

1.1.b

functionalities of that part of the service, and

1.1.c

any other characteristics of that part of the service or factors relating to
that part of the service that the Secretary of State considers relevant.

1.2

The Secretary of State must make regulations specifying conditions (“Category
2A threshold conditions”) for the search engine of regulated search services
and combined services relating to each of the following—

1.2.a

number of users of the search engine, and

1.2.b

any other characteristics of the search engine or factors relating to the
search engine that the Secretary of State considers relevant.

1.3

The Secretary of State must make regulations specifying conditions (“Category
2B threshold conditions”) for the user-to-user part of regulated user-to-user
services relating to each of the following—

1.3.a

number of users of the user-to-user part of the service,

1.3.b

functionalities of that part of the service, and

1.3.c

any other characteristics of that part of the service or factors relating to
that part of the service that the Secretary of State considers relevant.

1.4

Regulations under this paragraph must specify the way or ways in which the
relevant threshold conditions may be met, and that may be by meeting the
conditions in any specified combination, subject to the rule that—

1.4.a

in relation to the Category 1 threshold conditions and the Category 2B
threshold conditions, at least one specified condition about number of users
or functionality must be met, and

1.4.b

in relation to the Category 2A threshold conditions, at least one specified
condition about number of users must be met.

1.5

In making regulations under sub-paragraph  (1) , the Secretary of State must
take into account the likely impact of the number of users of the user-to-user
part of the service, and its functionalities, on how easily, quickly and
widely regulated user-generated content is disseminated by means of the
service.

1.6

In making regulations under sub-paragraph  (2) , the Secretary of State must
take into account the likely impact of the number of users of the search
engine on the level of risk of harm to individuals from search content that is
illegal content or search content that is harmful to children.

1.7

In making regulations under sub-paragraph  (3) , the Secretary of State must
take into account the likely impact of the number of users of the user-to-user
part of the service, and its functionalities, on the level of risk of harm to
individuals from illegal content and content that is harmful to children
disseminated by means of the service.

1.8

In this paragraph “ specified ” means specified in the regulations.

##### Procedure for first regulations under paragraph 

2

2.1

This paragraph describes the procedure that must be followed in relation to
the making of the first regulations under each of sub-paragraphs  (1) ,  (2)
and  (3)  of paragraph  1 .

2.2

In the case of regulations under paragraph  1(1) , within the period of six
months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed, OFCOM must carry
out research into—

2.2.a

how easily, quickly and widely regulated user-generated content is
disseminated by means of regulated user-to-user services,

2.2.b

the number of users and functionalities of the user-to-user part of such
services, and

2.2.c

such other characteristics of that part of such services or factors relating
to that part of such services as OFCOM consider to be relevant to specifying
the Category 1 threshold conditions.

2.3

In the case of regulations under paragraph  1(2) , within the period of six
months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed, OFCOM must carry
out research into the following aspects of the search engine of regulated
search services and combined services—

2.3.a

the prevalence of search content that is illegal content and search content
that is harmful to children,

2.3.b

the number of users of the search engine, and

2.3.c

such other characteristics or factors as OFCOM consider to be relevant to
specifying the Category 2A threshold conditions.

2.4

In the case of regulations under paragraph  1(3) , within the period of six
months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed, OFCOM must carry
out research into—

2.4.a

the dissemination of illegal content and content that is harmful to children
by means of regulated user-to-user services,

2.4.b

the number of users and functionalities of the user-to-user part of such
services, and

2.4.c

such other characteristics of that part of such services or factors relating
to that part of such services as OFCOM consider to be relevant to specifying
the Category 2B threshold conditions.

2.5

OFCOM must provide the Secretary of State with advice based on the research
under sub-paragraph  (2) ,  (3)  or  (4)  (as the case may be) as to the
provision which OFCOM consider it is appropriate for the regulations in
question to make.

2.6

Such advice may include advice that the regulations should include another
characteristic or factor in addition to number of users and (in the case of
regulations under paragraph 1(1) or (3)) functionalities, and what that other
characteristic or factor should be.

2.7

As soon as reasonably practicable after OFCOM provide advice as mentioned in
sub-paragraph  (5) —

2.7.a

OFCOM must publish the advice, and

2.7.b

the Secretary of State must make the regulations.

2.8

If the regulations include provision which differs in any material respect
from provision advised by OFCOM, the Secretary of State must publish a
statement which explains why the Secretary of State has departed from that
advice.

2.9

A statement mentioned in sub-paragraph  (8)  must be published—

2.9.a

no later than the time at which the regulations to which the statement relates
are made, and

2.9.b

in such manner as the Secretary of State considers appropriate for bringing it
to the attention of persons who may be affected by it.

2.10

The Secretary of State may give OFCOM extra time to carry out their research
in the case of regulations under paragraph  1(2)  or  (3) , but OFCOM must
carry out such research within the period of 18 months beginning with the day
on which this Act is passed.

2.11

The Secretary of State may not make regulations under paragraph  1  until
OFCOM have carried out research and provided advice to the Secretary of State
as required by this paragraph.

##### Procedure for amending or replacing regulations under paragraph 1

3

3.1

Regulations in force under paragraph  1(1)  may not be amended or replaced by
further regulations under that provision except following further research
carried out by OFCOM into the matters mentioned in paragraph  2(2) .

3.2

Regulations in force under paragraph  1(2)  may not be amended or replaced by
further regulations under that provision except following further research
carried out by OFCOM into the matters mentioned in paragraph  2(3) .

3.3

Regulations in force under paragraph  1(3)  may not be amended or replaced by
further regulations under that provision except following further research
carried out by OFCOM into the matters mentioned in paragraph  2(4) .

3.4

The further research in question—

3.4.a

may be initiated by OFCOM or carried out in response to a request from the
Secretary of State, and

3.4.b

may be in as much depth as OFCOM consider appropriate.

3.5

A request from the Secretary of State to OFCOM to carry out further research
must indicate why the Secretary of State considers that to be necessary.

3.6

Where such research is carried out, OFCOM must provide the Secretary of State
with advice as to whether, in OFCOM’s opinion—

3.6.a

it is appropriate to make changes to the regulations in question, specifying
the changes that OFCOM recommend, or

3.6.b

it is not appropriate to make any changes to the regulations in question.

3.7

OFCOM must publish such advice as soon as reasonably practicable after
providing it to the Secretary of State.

3.8

Where, following such advice, regulations are amended or replaced by further
regulations under the provision in question ( “new regulations” )—

3.8.a

if the new regulations include provision which differs in any material respect
from provision advised by OFCOM, the Secretary of State must publish a
statement explaining the departures from that advice;

3.8.b

if OFCOM’s advice was as mentioned in sub-paragraph  (6)(b) , the Secretary of
State must publish a statement explaining the reasons for the new regulations.

3.9

Where OFCOM’s advice is as mentioned in sub-paragraph  (6)(a)  and the
Secretary of State does not make new regulations, the Secretary of State must,
as soon as reasonably practicable, publish a statement explaining that
decision.

3.10

A statement mentioned in sub-paragraph  (8)  must be published no later than
the time at which the regulations to which the statement relates are made.

3.11

A statement mentioned in sub-paragraph  (8)  or  (9)  must be published in
such manner as the Secretary of State considers appropriate for bringing it to
the attention of persons who may be affected by it.

3.12

Sub-paragraphs (1) to (3) do not apply to regulations made only for the
purpose of correcting existing regulations under paragraph 1.

##### Publication of OFCOM’s advice under paragraphs 

4

4.1

In arranging for the publication of advice under paragraph  2(7)(a)  or  3(7)
, OFCOM must have regard to the need to exclude from publication, so far as
that is practicable, matters which are confidential in accordance with sub-
paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) .

4.2

A matter is confidential under this sub-paragraph if—

4.2.a

it relates specifically to the affairs of a particular body, and

4.2.b

publication of that matter would or might, in OFCOM’s opinion, seriously and
prejudicially affect the interests of that body.

4.3

A matter is confidential under this sub-paragraph if—

4.3.a

it relates to the private affairs of an individual, and

4.3.b

publication of that matter would or might, in OFCOM’s opinion, seriously and
prejudicially affect the interests of that individual.

##### Interpretation

5

References in this Schedule to the number of users of a user-to-user part of a
service or a search engine are to the number of United Kingdom users of such a
part or search engine.

6

In this Schedule the “characteristics” of a user-to-user part of a service or
a search engine include its user base, business model, governance and other
systems and processes.

7

In this Schedule—

“ content that is harmful to children ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 (see
section 60); “ illegal content ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 (see
section 59); “ regulated user-generated content ” has the same meaning as in
Part 3 (see section 55); “ search content ” has the same meaning as in Part 3
(see section 57).

OFCOM’s powers of entry, inspection and audit

Section 107

##### Authorised persons

1

1.1

OFCOM may authorise persons to—

1.1.a

exercise powers of entry and inspection under paragraph  2 ;

1.1.b

carry out audits in accordance with notices under paragraph  4 ;

1.1.c

apply for a warrant to be issued under paragraph  5 , and execute such a
warrant that has been issued.

1.2

“ Authorised person ” means—

1.2.a

in paragraph  2 , a person authorised for the purposes mentioned in sub-
paragraph  (1)(a) ;

1.2.b

in paragraph  4 , a person authorised for the purposes mentioned in sub-
paragraph  (1)(b) ;

1.2.c

in other paragraphs of this Schedule, a person authorised for the purposes
mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1)(c) .

1.3

An authorisation under this paragraph must be in writing.

##### Power of entry and inspection without a warrant

2

2.1

The powers conferred by this paragraph may be exercised in relation to
premises only if OFCOM—

2.1.a

believe that the premises are being used by the provider of a regulated
service in connection with the provision of a regulated service, and

2.1.b

have given the occupier of the premises seven days’ notice that they propose
to exercise the powers.

2.2

The powers conferred by this paragraph must be exercised at a reasonable hour.

2.3

Before exercising a power of entry under this paragraph, an authorised person
must, if requested to do so by a person on the premises—

2.3.a

produce evidence of the authorised person’s identity, and

2.3.b

outline the purpose for which the power is exercised.

2.4

An authorised person may—

2.4.a

enter the premises,

2.4.b

inspect the premises,

2.4.c

observe the carrying on of the regulated service at the premises,

2.4.d

inspect any document or equipment found on the premises,

2.4.e

require any person on the premises to provide any information, or produce any
document in the person’s possession or control, that the authorised person
considers is relevant to the provision of the regulated service, and

2.4.f

require any person on the premises to provide an explanation of any document
or to state where it may be found.

2.5

The power to observe the carrying on of the regulated service at the premises
includes the power to view, using equipment or a device on the premises,
information generated in real time by the performance of a test or
demonstration required by a notice given under paragraph  3 .

2.6

An authorised person may take copies of any document found or produced under
sub-paragraph  (4) .

2.7

An authorised person may exercise powers conferred by this paragraph only so
far as is required in connection with the exercise by OFCOM of their functions
under this Act.

##### Notice requiring information, documents or tests at inspection

3

3.1

This paragraph applies where OFCOM intend to exercise the powers conferred by
paragraph  2  to enter and inspect premises.

3.2

OFCOM may give the occupier of the premises a notice requiring relevant
information to be provided, relevant documents to be produced, or a relevant
test or demonstration to be performed, during the inspection.

3.3

Any such notice must be given at least seven days in advance of the proposed
inspection date.

3.4

For the purposes of this paragraph, information or a document, test or
demonstration is “relevant” if it is required in connection with the exercise
by OFCOM of their functions under this Act.

3.5

A notice under this paragraph must—

3.5.a

specify or describe the information to be provided, the documents to be
produced, or the test or demonstration to be performed, during the inspection,
and

3.5.b

contain information about the consequences of not complying with the notice.

##### Audit

4

4.1

OFCOM may give the provider of a regulated service a notice (an “audit
notice”) requiring the provider to permit OFCOM to carry out an audit—

4.1.a

to assess whether the provider has complied or is complying with enforceable
requirements that apply in respect of the service, or

4.1.b

to assess—

4.1.b.i

the nature and level of risk of the provider failing to comply with an
enforceable requirement that applies in respect of the service, and

4.1.b.ii

ways to mitigate such a risk.

4.2

An audit notice may require the provider to take any of the following actions
for a purpose mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)—

4.2.a

to permit an authorised person to enter and inspect specified premises;

4.2.b

to permit an authorised person to observe the carrying on of the regulated
service at the premises;

4.2.c

to direct an authorised person to documents on the premises that are of a
specified description;

4.2.d

to assist an authorised person to view information of a specified description
that is capable of being viewed using equipment or a device on the premises;

4.2.e

to assist an authorised person to view, using equipment or a device on the
premises, information demonstrating in real time the operation of systems,
processes or features of a specified description, including functionalities or
algorithms of a specified description;

4.2.f

to assist an authorised person to view, using equipment or a device on the
premises, information generated in real time by the performance of a test or
demonstration of a specified description;

4.2.g

to comply with a request from an authorised person for a copy (in such form as
may be requested) of the documents or information to which the person is
directed or which the person is assisted to view;

4.2.h

to permit an authorised person to inspect the documents, information or
equipment to which the person is directed or which the person is assisted to
view;

4.2.i

to provide an authorised person with an explanation of such documents or
information;

4.2.j

to make available for interview by the authorised person a specified number of
people of a specified description who are involved in the provision of the
regulated service (not exceeding the number who are willing to be
interviewed).

4.3

An audit notice—

4.3.a

must be given at least 28 days in advance of the start of the audit, and

4.3.b

must specify the time or times at which, or period or periods within which,
each requirement imposed by the notice must be complied with.

4.4

An audit notice may not require a provider to permit an authorised person to
enter domestic premises.

4.5

An audit notice may not require a provider to do anything that would result in
the disclosure of information or documents in respect of which a claim to
legal professional privilege, or (in Scotland) to confidentiality of
communications, could be maintained in legal proceedings.

4.6

An audit notice must contain information about the consequences of not
complying with the requirements which it imposes.

4.7

An audit notice may by further notice—

4.7.a

be revoked by OFCOM;

4.7.b

be varied by OFCOM so as to make it less onerous.

4.8

OFCOM may require a provider to pay some or all of the reasonable costs of an
audit carried out in accordance with an audit notice.

4.9

If OFCOM require a provider to pay an amount as mentioned in sub-paragraph
(8) , paragraph  6  of Schedule 13 applies in relation to the amount as it
applies in relation to a penalty within the meaning of that Schedule.

4.10

In this paragraph “ specified ” means specified in an audit notice.

##### Conditions for issue of a warrant

5

5.1

A justice of the peace or (in Northern Ireland) a lay magistrate may issue a
warrant in relation to premises specified in an application only if satisfied
on sworn information in writing given by an authorised person that—

5.1.a

the premises are being used by the provider of a regulated service in
connection with the provision of a regulated service;

5.1.b

there are reasonable grounds to suspect that—

5.1.b.i

the provider is failing to comply, or has failed to comply, with an
enforceable requirement that applies in respect of that service, and

5.1.b.ii

there is information or equipment on the premises, or there are documents on
the premises, relevant to OFCOM’s investigation into that failure (or possible
failure); and

5.1.c

any of the conditions in sub-paragraph  (2)  are met.

5.2

The conditions are that, in relation to the premises specified in the
application for a warrant—

5.2.a

OFCOM have previously given notice to enter the premises, as required in
relation to entry without a warrant under paragraph  2 , but a person
authorised by OFCOM to exercise powers under that paragraph was denied access,

5.2.b

a requirement imposed by a person acting in the exercise of powers conferred
by paragraph  2  has not been complied with,

5.2.c

a requirement of a notice under paragraph  3  has not been complied with,

5.2.d

a requirement of a notice under paragraph  4  (audit notice) has not been
complied with,

5.2.e

giving notice to enter the premises would defeat the object of entry, or

5.2.f

OFCOM require access to the premises urgently.

##### Evidence of authority

6

6.1

Before exercising a power of entry under a warrant, an authorised person must—

6.1.a

produce a copy of the warrant,

6.1.b

supply the occupier (if present), or any other person appearing to the
authorised person to be in charge of the premises, with a copy of the warrant,
and

6.1.c

if requested to do so—

6.1.c.i

produce evidence of the authorised person’s identity, and

6.1.c.ii

outline the purpose for which the power is exercised.

6.2

If neither the occupier nor any other person appearing to the authorised
person to be in charge of the premises is present, the authorised person must
leave a copy of the warrant in a prominent place on the premises.

##### Powers exercisable by warrant

7

An authorised person executing a warrant may do any of the following for the
purposes of OFCOM’s investigation into whether there is, or has been, a
failure referred to in paragraph  5(1)(b)(i) —

7.a

enter the premises specified in the warrant;

7.b

search the premises;

7.c

inspect any documents or equipment found on the premises, or any information
capable of being viewed using equipment or a device on the premises;

7.d

require any person on the premises to provide information, including requiring
an explanation of any document found on the premises or any information
capable of being viewed using equipment or a device on the premises;

7.e

require any person on the premises to produce any document in the person’s
possession or control;

7.f

take copies of any document found on the premises or produced in response to a
requirement under paragraph  (e) ;

7.g

require information which is stored in electronic form and may be accessed
from the premises to be produced in a form in which it can be taken away and
in which it is visible and legible (or from which it can readily be produced
in a visible and legible form);

7.h

operate any equipment found on the premises for the purposes of producing such
information in such a form;

7.i

require any person on the premises to give the authorised person any
assistance that the authorised person may reasonably require (including for
the purposes of paragraphs  (g)  and  (h) );

7.j

take copies of anything produced in accordance with paragraph  (g) ;

7.k

seize any document found on the premises or produced in response to a
requirement under paragraph  (e) , or anything produced in accordance with
paragraph  (g) , or any equipment found on the premises;

7.l

open any container found on the premises;

7.m

take a photograph or video recording of anything found on the premises.

##### Powers of seizure: supplementary

8

8.1

This paragraph applies where the person executing a warrant seizes a document
or other thing.

8.2

The person must, on request—

8.2.a

give a receipt for it, and

8.2.b

(in the case of a document) give an occupier of the premises a copy of it.

8.3

Sub-paragraph  (2)(b)  does not apply if the person executing the warrant
considers that providing a copy would result in undue delay.

8.4

Anything seized may be retained for so long as is necessary in all the
circumstances.

##### Further provision about executing warrants

9

Entry and search under a warrant must be at a reasonable hour, unless it
appears to the person executing it that the purpose of a search would be
frustrated or seriously prejudiced by entry at a reasonable hour.

10

Entry and search under a warrant must be within the period of one month
starting with the date of its issue.

11

An authorised person executing a warrant may take such other persons and such
equipment and materials onto the premises as appear to that person to be
necessary.

12

A person taken on to the premises under paragraph  11  may exercise any power
conferred on an authorised person by paragraph  7  if the person is in the
company and under the supervision of an authorised person executing a warrant.

13

An authorised person may use reasonable force, if necessary, for the purpose
of exercising a power under a warrant.

14

A warrant authorises entry on one occasion only, unless it specifies that it
authorises multiple entries.

15

If the premises are unoccupied or the occupier is temporarily absent, an
authorised person executing a warrant must leave the premises as effectively
secured against trespassers as that person found them.

##### Return of warrants

16

16.1

Where a warrant is executed—

16.1.a

it must be returned to the appropriate person (see sub-paragraph  (3) ) after
being executed, and

16.1.b

the person by whom it is executed must write on the warrant a statement of the
powers that have been exercised under the warrant.

16.2

Where a warrant is not executed, it must be returned to the appropriate person
within the time authorised for its execution.

16.3

The appropriate person is—

16.3.a

in the case of a warrant issued in England and Wales, the designated officer
for the local justice area in which the justice of the peace was acting when
issuing the warrant;

16.3.b

in the case of a warrant issued in Scotland, the clerk of the justice of the
peace court;

16.3.c

in the case of a warrant issued in Northern Ireland, the clerk of petty
sessions.

16.4

The appropriate person must retain a search warrant returned under sub-
paragraph  (1)  or  (2)  until the end of the period of 12 months starting
with the date of its return.

16.5

If during that period the occupier of premises to which the warrant relates
asks to inspect it, the occupier must be allowed to do so.

##### Restrictions on powers

17

17.1

This paragraph applies in relation to—

17.1.a

powers conferred by paragraph  2  (entry and inspection without warrant), and

17.1.b

powers exercisable under a warrant.

17.2

Those powers are not exercisable in respect of domestic premises.

17.3

Those powers are not exercisable in relation to information or documents in
respect of which a claim to legal professional privilege, or (in Scotland) to
confidentiality of communications, could be maintained in legal proceedings.

##### Offences

18

18.1

A person commits an offence if—

18.1.a

the person intentionally obstructs a person acting under this Schedule;

18.1.b

the person fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply with any requirement
imposed by a person acting under this Schedule;

18.1.c

in response to a requirement imposed by a person acting under this Schedule,
the person provides information that is false in a material respect, knowing
that it is false in a material respect or being reckless as to whether it is
false in a material respect.

18.2

A person who commits an offence under this paragraph is liable—

18.2.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

18.2.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

18.2.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

18.2.d

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years
or a fine (or both).

##### Interpretation

19

In this Schedule—

“ domestic premises ” means premises, or a part of premises, used as a
dwelling; “ premises ” means premises in the United Kingdom.

20

References in this Schedule to a person “acting under this Schedule” are to a
person acting—

20.a

in the exercise of powers conferred by paragraph  2  (entry and inspection
without warrant), or

20.b

in the execution of a warrant,

and the reference in paragraph  18(1)(a)  also includes a person carrying out
an audit in accordance with an audit notice.

21

In this Schedule “ enforceable requirement ” has the same meaning as in
Chapter 6 of Part 7 (see section 131), except that—

21.a

it does not include—

21.a.i

a requirement under (or a requirement of a notice under) section 104 (reports
by skilled persons), or

21.a.ii

a requirement imposed by a person acting under this Schedule;

21.b

it includes a requirement imposed by a notice under section 121 (1)  (notices
to deal with terrorism content and CSEA content).

22

In paragraphs  6  to  17  and  20  “ warrant ” means a warrant issued under
paragraph  5 .

23

In the application of paragraph  5(1)  to Scotland, the reference to sworn
information in writing has effect as a reference to evidence on oath.

24

In the application of paragraph  5(1)  to Northern Ireland, the reference to
sworn information in writing has effect as a reference to a complaint on oath.

  Penalties imposed by OFCOM under Chapter 6 of Part 7

Section 143

##### Meaning of “penalty” in this Schedule

1

Except as otherwise indicated, references in this Schedule to a “penalty” are
to any of the following—

1.a

a penalty imposed by a confirmation decision (see sections 132 (5)(b)  and
137), whether that is—

1.a.i

a penalty of a single amount, or

1.a.ii

a penalty calculated by reference to a daily rate;

1.b

a penalty imposed by a penalty notice under section 139;

1.c

a penalty imposed by a penalty notice under section 140 (5) ;

1.d

a penalty imposed by a penalty notice under section 141 (6) .

##### Amount of penalties: principles

2

2.1

In determining the amount of a penalty to be imposed on a person, OFCOM must,
in particular, take into account—

2.1.a

any representations made, and evidence provided, by the person, and

2.1.b

the effects of the failure (or failures) in respect of which the penalty is
imposed.

2.2

In the case of a penalty imposed by a confirmation decision, OFCOM must also
take into account any representations made, and evidence provided, by any
other person to whom the earlier provisional notice of contravention relating
to the same matter was given.

2.3

OFCOM must also take into account—

2.3.a

in the case of a penalty imposed by a confirmation decision, any steps taken
by the person towards—

2.3.a.i

complying with any duty or requirement specified in the provisional notice of
contravention given to the person, or

2.3.a.ii

remedying the failure to comply with any such duty or requirement;

2.3.b

in the case of a penalty imposed by a penalty notice under section 139, any
steps taken by the person towards—

2.3.b.i

complying with any duty or requirement specified in the confirmation decision
given to the person, or

2.3.b.ii

remedying the failure to comply with any such duty or requirement;

2.3.c

in the case of a penalty imposed by a penalty notice under section 140 (5) ,
any steps taken by the person towards complying with the notice under section
121 (1) ;

2.3.d

in the case of a penalty imposed by a penalty notice under section 141 (6) ,
any steps taken by the person towards paying any amount of the fee due to
OFCOM.

2.4

A penalty must be of an amount that OFCOM consider to be—

2.4.a

appropriate, and

2.4.b

proportionate to the failure (or failures) in respect of which it is imposed.

2.5

See also section 392 of the Communications Act (which requires OFCOM to
produce guidelines about their determination of the amount of penalties that
they impose).

##### Limitation to type and amount of penalties previously proposed

3

3.1

A confirmation decision or penalty notice may not impose a penalty of a
different kind, of a greater amount or (in the case of a penalty calculated by
reference to a daily rate) payable over a longer period than that proposed in
the earlier notice in relation to the same matter.

3.2

Sub-paragraph  (1)  applies in a case where a provisional notice of
contravention and confirmation decision in relation to the same matter are
both given jointly (in accordance with Schedule 15) to the same entities, but
does not otherwise apply in relation to a penalty for which two or more
entities are jointly and severally liable.

3.3

In this paragraph “ penalty notice ” means a penalty notice under section 139,
140 (5)  or 141 (6) .

##### Maximum amount of penalties

4

4.1

Where a penalty is imposed on a person in respect of a regulated service
provided by that person, the maximum amount of the penalty for which the
person is liable is whichever is the greater of—

4.1.a

£18 million, and

4.1.b

10% of the person’s qualifying worldwide revenue for the person’s most recent
complete accounting period (subject to sub-paragraph  (5) ).

4.2

But if the person does not have an accounting period, the maximum amount of
the penalty for which the person is liable is £18 million.

4.3

The maximum amount of a penalty for which a person not within sub-paragraph
(1)  is liable is £18 million.

4.4

If the person’s first accounting period has not yet ended, sub-paragraph
(1)(b)  is to be read as referring to 10% of the amount that OFCOM estimate to
be the person’s likely qualifying worldwide revenue for that period.

4.5

If the duration of the accounting period by reference to which an amount of
qualifying worldwide revenue is calculated is less than a year, the amount
mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1)(b)  is to be proportionately increased.

If the duration of that accounting period is more than a year, that amount is
to be proportionately reduced.

4.6

The amount of a person’s qualifying worldwide revenue for an accounting period
is, in the event of a disagreement between the person and OFCOM, the amount
determined by OFCOM.

4.7

In the case of a confirmation decision that imposes a penalty of a single
amount and a penalty calculated by reference to a daily rate, references in
sub-paragraphs  (1)  to  (3)  to the maximum amount for which a person is
liable are to the maximum amount of both those penalties taken together.

4.8

In this paragraph “ accounting period ”, in relation to a person, means a
period in respect of which accounts are prepared in relation to that person
or, where that person is an individual, in respect of that individual’s
business of providing a regulated service.

4.9

Regulations made by OFCOM under section 85 (1)(a)  (including regulations
making provision of a kind mentioned in section 85 (3) ,  (4)  or  (5) ) apply
for the purpose of determining the qualifying worldwide revenue of a provider
of a regulated service for an accounting period as mentioned in this paragraph
as they apply for the purpose of determining the qualifying worldwide revenue
of a provider of a regulated service for a qualifying period for the purposes
of Part 6.

##### Maximum amount of penalties: group of entities

5

5.1

This paragraph contains modifications of paragraph  4  in a case where, in
accordance with Schedule 15, two or more entities are jointly and severally
liable for a penalty.

5.2

Sub-paragraphs  (3)  to  (5)  of this paragraph apply instead of paragraph
4(1)  to  (4) .

5.3

The maximum amount of the penalty for which the entities are liable is
whichever is the greater of—

5.3.a

£18 million, and

5.3.b

10% of the qualifying worldwide revenue of the group of entities that consists
of—

5.3.b.i

the entity that is the provider of the regulated service to which the decision
or notice in question relates (“entity E”), and

5.3.b.ii

every other entity which (at the time the decision or notice is given) is a
group undertaking in relation to entity E.

5.4

In sub-paragraph  (3)(b) , the reference to the qualifying worldwide revenue
of a group of entities is to—

5.4.a

the amount of the group’s qualifying worldwide revenue for the most recent
complete accounting period of the entities liable for the penalty, or

5.4.b

if the first accounting period of the entities liable for the penalty has not
yet ended, the amount that OFCOM estimate to be the group’s likely qualifying
worldwide revenue for that period.

5.5

In a case where the accounting periods of the entities liable for the penalty
are different—

5.5.a

the reference in sub-paragraph  (4)(a)  to the accounting period of the
entities is to be read as a reference to the accounting period of any of the
entities (at OFCOM’s discretion), and

5.5.b

sub-paragraph  (4)(b)  is to apply as if—

5.5.b.i

for “the first accounting period of the entities” there were substituted  “the
first accounting period of all of the entities” , and

5.5.b.ii

for “that period” there were substituted  “the accounting period of any of the
entities (at OFCOM’s discretion)” .

5.6

Sub-paragraphs  (5) ,  (6)  and  (7)  of paragraph  4  are to be read with the
necessary modifications in their application for the purposes of this
paragraph.

5.7

In this paragraph—

      “ accounting period ”, in relation to an entity, means a period in
respect of which accounts are prepared in relation to that entity;           “
group undertaking ” has the meaning given by section 1161(5) of the Companies
Act 2006.

5.8

For the purposes of this paragraph, sections 1161(5) and 1162 of, and Schedule
7 to, the Companies Act 2006—

5.8.a

are to apply in relation to an entity which is not an undertaking (as defined
in section 1161(1) of that Act) as they apply in relation to an undertaking,
and

5.8.b

are to be read with any necessary modifications if applied to an entity formed
under the law of a country outside the United Kingdom.

5.9

OFCOM may by regulations make provision about how the qualifying worldwide
revenue of a group of entities is to be determined for the purposes of this
paragraph.

5.10

Before making regulations under sub-paragraph (9) OFCOM must consult—

5.10.a

the Secretary of State,

5.10.b

the Treasury, and

5.10.c

such other persons as OFCOM consider appropriate.

5.11

Regulations under sub-paragraph (9) may make provision subject to such
exemptions and exceptions as OFCOM consider appropriate.

##### Recovery of penalties

6

6.1

In England and Wales, a penalty is recoverable—

6.1.a

if the county court so orders, as if it were payable under an order of that
court;

6.1.b

if the High Court so orders, as if it were payable under an order of that
court.

6.2

In Scotland, a penalty may be enforced in the same manner as an extract
registered decree arbitral bearing a warrant for execution issued by the
sheriff court of any sheriffdom in Scotland.

6.3

In Northern Ireland, a penalty is recoverable—

6.3.a

if a county court so orders, as if it were payable under an order of that
court;

6.3.b

if the High Court so orders, as if it were payable under an order of that
court.

Amendments consequential on offences in Part 10 of this Act

Section 191

##### Amendments consequential on offences in sections 179, 181 and 183

###### Football Spectators Act 1989

1

In Schedule 1 to the Football Spectators Act 1989 (football banning orders:
relevant offences), after paragraph 1(y) insert—

1.z

any offence under section 179 (false communications) or 181 (threatening
communications) of the Online Safety Act 2023—

1.z.i

which does not fall within paragraph (d), (e), (m), (n), (r) or (s),

1.z.ii

as respects which the court has stated that the offence is aggravated by
hostility of any of the types mentioned in section 66(1) of the Sentencing
Code (racial hostility etc), and

1.z.iii

as respects which the court makes a declaration that the offence related to a
football match, to a football organisation or to a person whom the accused
knew or believed to have a prescribed connection with a football organisation.

###### Sexual Offences Act 2003

2

In Schedule 5 to the Sexual Offences Act 2003, in the list of offences for
England and Wales, after paragraph 63C insert—

2.63D

An offence under section 179 of the Online Safety Act 2023 (false
communications).

2.63E

An offence under section 181 of that Act (threatening communications).

3

In Schedule 5 to the Sexual Offences Act 2003, in the list of offences for
Northern Ireland, after paragraph 171H insert—

3.171I

An offence under section 179 of the Online Safety Act 2023 (false
communications).

3.171J

An offence under section 181 of that Act (threatening communications).

###### Regulatory Enforcement and Sanctions Act 2008

4

In Schedule 3 to the Regulatory Enforcement and Sanctions Act 2008 (relevant
enactments for the purposes of relevant functions to which Parts 1 and 2 of
that Act apply), at the appropriate place insert—

Online Safety Act 2023, sections 179 and 181

.

###### Elections Act 2022

5

In Schedule 9 to the Elections Act 2022 (offences for purposes of Part 5), in
Part 2, after paragraph 52 insert—

########## Online Safety Act 2023

5.52A

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Online Safety Act
2023—

5.52A.a

section 179 (false communications);

5.52A.b

section 181 (threatening communications);

5.52A.c

section 183 (sending or showing flashing images).

##### Amendments consequential on offence in section 184

###### Children and Young Persons Act 1933

6

In Schedule 1 to the Children and Young Persons Act 1933 (offences against
children and young persons with respect to which special provisions of Act
apply), after the entry relating to the Suicide Act 1961 insert—

An offence under section 184 (1)  of the Online Safety Act 2023 (encouraging
or assisting serious self-harm) where the relevant act is an act capable of,
and done with the intention of, encouraging or assisting the serious self-harm
of a child or young person.

###### Visiting Forces Act 1952

7

7.1

The Schedule to the Visiting Forces Act 1952 (offences referred to in section
3) is amended as follows.

7.2

In paragraph 1(b), after paragraph (xv) insert—

7.2.xvi

section 184 of the Online Safety Act 2023;

.

7.3

In paragraph 2(b), after paragraph (iv) insert—

7.3.v

section 184 of the Online Safety Act 2023;

.

###### Children and Young Persons Act (Northern Ireland) 1968 (c. 34 (N.I.))

8

In Schedule 1 to the Children and Young Persons Act (Northern Ireland) 1968
(offences against children and young persons with respect to which special
provisions of Act apply), after the entry relating to the Criminal Justice Act
(Northern Ireland) 1966 insert—

An offence under section 184 (1)  of the Online Safety Act 2023 (encouraging
or assisting serious self-harm) where the relevant act is an act capable of,
and done with the intention of, encouraging or assisting the serious self-harm
of a child or young person.

###### Criminal Attempts Act 1981

9

In section 1 of the Criminal Attempts Act 1981 (attempting to commit an
offence), in subsection (4), after paragraph (c) insert—

9.d

an offence under section 184 (1)  of the Online Safety Act 2023 (encouraging
or assisting serious self-harm).

###### Criminal Attempts and Conspiracy (Northern Ireland) Order 1983 (

10

In Article 3 of the Criminal Attempts and Conspiracy (Northern Ireland) Order
1983 (attempting to commit an offence), in paragraph (4), after sub-paragraph
(c) insert—

10.ca

an offence under section 184 (1)  of the Online Safety Act 2023 (encouraging
or assisting serious self-harm);

.

###### Armed Forces Act 2006

11

In Schedule 2 to the Armed Forces Act 2006 (“Schedule 2 offences”), in
paragraph 12, at the end insert—

11.ba

an offence under section 184 of the Online Safety Act 2023 (encouraging or
assisting serious self-harm).

###### Serious Crime Act 2007

12

12.1

The Serious Crime Act 2007 is amended as follows.

12.2

In section 51A (exceptions to section 44 for encouraging or assisting
suicide)—

12.2.a

the existing text becomes subsection (1);

12.2.b

after that subsection insert—

12.2.b.2

Section 44 does not apply to an offence under section 184 (1)  of the Online
Safety Act 2023 (offence of encouraging or assisting serious self-harm).

;

12.2.c

in the heading, at the end insert  “or serious self-harm” .

12.3

In Part 1 of Schedule 3 (listed offences: England and Wales and Northern
Ireland), after paragraph 24A insert—

############ Online Safety Act 2023

12.3.24B

An offence under section 184 (1)  of the Online Safety Act 2023 (encouraging
or assisting serious self-harm).

##### Amendments consequential on offences in sections 187 and 188

###### Children and Young Persons Act 1933

13

In Schedule 1 to the Children and Young Persons Act 1933 (offences against
children and young persons with respect to which special provisions of Act
apply), in the first entry relating to the Sexual Offences Act 2003, after
“66” insert  “, 66A, 66B” .

###### Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984

14

In section 65A of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (“ qualifying
offences ” for the purposes of Part 5 of that Act), in subsection (2)(p) after
“61 to” insert  “66A, 66B (2)  and  (3) ,” .

###### Sexual Offences (Amendment) Act 1992

15

In section 6 of the Sexual Offences (Amendment) Act 1992 (interpretation),
after subsection (2A) insert—

15.2B

For the purposes of this Act, where it is alleged or there is an accusation
that an offence under section  66B (4)  of the Sexual Offences Act 2003
(threatening to share intimate photograph or film) has been committed, the
person against whom the offence is alleged to have been committed is to be
regarded as—

15.2B.a

the person to whom the threat mentioned in that subsection is alleged to have
been made, and

15.2B.b

(if different) the person shown, or who appears to be shown, in an intimate
state in the photograph or film that is the subject of the threat.

###### Sexual Offences Act 2003

16

16.1

The Sexual Offences Act 2003 is amended as follows.

16.2

In section 78 (meaning of “ sexual ”), after “15A” insert  “, 66B to 66D” .

16.3

In section 136A(3A) (specified child sex offences), in paragraph (c), after
“66” insert  “, 66A, 66B (2)  and  (3) ” .

16.4

In Schedule 3 (sexual offences for purposes of Part 2), after paragraph 33
insert—

16.4.33A

An offence under section 66A of this Act (sending etc photograph or film of
genitals) if—

16.4.33A.a

where the offender was under 18, the offender is or has been sentenced in
respect of the offence to imprisonment for a term of at least 12 months;

16.4.33A.b

in any other case—

16.4.33A.b.i

the victim was under 18, or

16.4.33A.b.ii

the offender, in respect of the offence or finding, is or has been—

16.4.33A.b.ii.a

sentenced to a term of imprisonment,

16.4.33A.b.ii.b

detained in a hospital, or

16.4.33A.b.ii.c

made the subject of a community sentence of at least 12 months.

16.4.33B

An offence under section  66B (3)  of this Act (sharing intimate photograph or
film for purpose of obtaining sexual gratification) if—

16.4.33B.a

where the offender was under 18, the offender is or has been sentenced in
respect of the offence to imprisonment for a term of at least 12 months;

16.4.33B.b

in any other case—

16.4.33B.b.i

the victim was under 18, or

16.4.33B.b.ii

the offender, in respect of the offence or finding, is or has been—

16.4.33B.b.ii.a

sentenced to a term of imprisonment,

16.4.33B.b.ii.b

detained in a hospital, or

16.4.33B.b.ii.c

made the subject of a community sentence of at least 12 months.

###### Criminal Justice Act 2003

17

17.1

The Criminal Justice Act 2003 is amended as follows.

17.2

In Part 2 of Schedule 15 (specified sexual offences for purposes of section
325), after paragraph 149 insert—

17.2.149A

An offence under section 66A of that Act (sending etc photograph or film of
genitals).

17.2.149B

An offence under section 66B (2)  or  (3)  of that Act (sharing intimate
photograph or film with intent to cause alarm, distress or humiliation or for
purpose of obtaining sexual gratification).

17.3

In Schedule 34A (child sex offences for purposes of section 327A), in
paragraph 10—

17.3.a

after “66” insert  “, 66A, 66B (2)  or  (3) ” , and

17.3.b

after “exposure” insert  “, sending etc photograph or film of genitals,
sharing intimate photograph or film with intent to cause alarm, distress or
humiliation or for purpose of obtaining sexual gratification” .

###### Anti-social Behaviour, Crime and Policing Act 2014

18

In section 116 of the Anti-social Behaviour, Crime and Policing Act 2014
(information about guests at hotels believed to be used for child sexual
exploitation), in subsection (8)(c), in the entry that relates to exposure and
voyeurism offences in the Sexual Offences Act 2003—

18.a

after “66” insert  “, 66A, 66B (2)  and  (3) ” , and

18.b

after “exposure” insert  “, sending etc photograph or film of genitals,
sharing intimate photograph or film with intent to cause alarm, distress or
humiliation or for purpose of obtaining sexual gratification” .

###### Modern Slavery Act 2015

19

In Schedule 4 to the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (offences to which defence in
section 45 does not apply), in paragraph 33 (offences under Sexual Offences
Act 2003), after the entry for section 66 insert—

section 66A (sending etc photograph or film of genitals) section  66B (2)
(sharing intimate photograph or film with intent to cause alarm, distress or
humiliation) section 66B (3)  (sharing intimate photograph or film for purpose
of obtaining sexual gratification)

.

###### Sentencing Act 2020

20

In Part 2 of Schedule 18 to the Sentencing Act 2020 (specified sexual offences
for purposes of section 306), in paragraph 38 (offences under Sexual Offences
Act 2003), after sub-paragraph (ax) insert—

20.axa

section 66A (sending etc photograph or film of genitals);

20.axb

section  66B (2)  (sharing intimate photograph or film with intent to cause
alarm, distress or humiliation);

20.axc

section  66B (3)  (sharing intimate photograph or film for purpose of
obtaining sexual gratification);

.

###### Elections Act 2022

21

In Schedule 9 to the Elections Act 2022 (offences for purposes of Part 5),
after paragraph 47(f) insert—

21.g

section 66A (sending etc photograph or film of genitals).

##### Amendments consequential on section 190

###### Criminal Justice and Courts Act 2015

22

22.1

The Criminal Justice and Courts Act 2015 is amended as follows.

22.2

In section 96 (extent), in subsection (6), omit paragraphs (c) and (g).

22.3

Omit Schedule 8 (disclosing or threatening to disclose private sexual
photographs or films: providers of information society services).

###### Domestic Abuse Act 2021

23

23.1

The Domestic Abuse Act 2021 is amended as follows.

23.2

Omit section 69 (threats to disclose private sexual photographs and films with
intent to cause distress) and the italic heading before it.

23.3

In section 85 (power to make consequential provision), in subsection (1)(b),
omit “69,”.

23.4

In section 86 (power to make transitional or saving provision), in subsection
(1)(b), omit “69,”.

###### Overseas Operations (Service Personnel and Veterans) Act 2021

24

In Part 1 of Schedule 1 to the Overseas Operations (Service Personnel and
Veterans) Act 2021 (“ excluded offences ” for the purposes of section 6 of
that Act), omit paragraph 11.

###### Criminal Justice (Electronic Commerce) (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2021 (

25

In the Criminal Justice (Electronic Commerce) (Amendment) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2021, omit regulation 8 (amendment of the Criminal Justice and
Courts Act 2015).

Liability of parent entities etc

Section 197

##### Joint provisional notices of contravention

1

1.1

This paragraph applies if—

1.1.a

OFCOM are satisfied that there are grounds to give an entity (“ E ”) a
provisional notice of contravention relating to a regulated service, and

1.1.b

E is the provider of that service.

1.2

If there is an entity which is a parent undertaking in relation to E, the
provisional notice of contravention may be given—

1.2.a

to E alone, or

1.2.b

jointly to E and to an entity which is a parent undertaking in relation to E.

1.3

If there is an entity which is a subsidiary undertaking in relation to E, the
provisional notice of contravention may be given—

1.3.a

to E alone, or

1.3.b

jointly to E and to an entity which is a subsidiary undertaking in relation to
E.

1.4

If E is a subsidiary undertaking and there is an entity which is a fellow
subsidiary undertaking in relation to E, the provisional notice of
contravention may be given—

1.4.a

to E alone, or

1.4.b

jointly to E and to an entity which is a fellow subsidiary undertaking in
relation to E.

1.5

If an individual or individuals control E (see paragraph  5(4) ), the
provisional notice of contravention may be given—

1.5.a

to E alone, or

1.5.b

jointly to E and to the individual or individuals who control E.

1.6

If a provisional notice of contravention is given jointly as mentioned in sub-
paragraph  (2)(b) ,  (3)(b) ,  (4)(b)  or  (5)(b) , section 130 (8)  is to be
read, in its application for the purposes of this paragraph, as if it included
a reference to representations about whether joint and several liability would
be appropriate.

##### Liability of parent entities for failures by subsidiary entities

2

2.1

This paragraph applies if—

2.1.a

OFCOM are satisfied that there are grounds to give an entity (“ E ”) a
relevant decision or notice relating to a regulated service,

2.1.b

E is the provider of that service, and

2.1.c

there is an entity which is a parent undertaking in relation to E (a “parent
entity”).

2.2

The relevant decision or notice may be given—

2.2.a

to E alone, or

2.2.b

(subject to sub-paragraph (4)) jointly to E and to a parent entity.

2.3

But before giving a penalty notice to a parent entity, or giving a
confirmation decision to a parent entity which was not previously given a
provisional notice of contravention relating to the same matter, OFCOM must
give that entity an opportunity to make representations to OFCOM about—

2.3.a

the matters contained in the decision or notice, and

2.3.b

whether joint and several liability would be appropriate.

2.4

OFCOM may not give a relevant decision or notice to a parent entity (“ P ”)
if—

2.4.a

P meets the condition in section 1162(2)(a) of the Companies Act in relation
to E, and

2.4.b

P makes representations (under section 130 (8)  as applied by paragraph  1(6)
, or under sub-paragraph  (3) ) which satisfy OFCOM that P does not meet any
condition in section 1162(2)(b), (c) or (d) or (4) of the Companies Act in
relation to E.

2.5

If a relevant decision or notice is given to entities jointly as mentioned in
sub-paragraph  (2)(b) , those entities are jointly and severally liable to
comply with the requirements, or (as the case may be) pay the penalty, imposed
by the decision or notice.

2.6

See also paragraph  5  of Schedule 13 (maximum amount of penalties: group of
entities).

##### Liability of subsidiary entities for failures by parent entities

3

3.1

This paragraph applies if—

3.1.a

OFCOM are satisfied that there are grounds to give an entity (“ E ”) a
relevant decision or notice relating to a regulated service,

3.1.b

E is the provider of that service, and

3.1.c

there is an entity which is a subsidiary undertaking in relation to E (a
“subsidiary entity”).

3.2

The relevant decision or notice may be given—

3.2.a

to E alone, or

3.2.b

jointly to E and to a subsidiary entity.

3.3

But—

3.3.a

before giving a penalty notice to a subsidiary entity, or giving a
confirmation decision to a subsidiary entity which was not previously given a
provisional notice of contravention relating to the same matter, OFCOM must
give that entity an opportunity to make representations to OFCOM about—

3.3.a.i

the matters contained in the decision or notice, and

3.3.a.ii

whether joint and several liability would be appropriate; and

3.3.b

a relevant decision or notice may be given to a subsidiary entity only if that
entity’s acts or omissions contributed to the failure in respect of which the
decision or notice is given.

3.4

If a relevant decision or notice is given to entities jointly as mentioned in
sub-paragraph  (2)(b) , those entities are jointly and severally liable to
comply with the requirements, or (as the case may be) pay the penalty, imposed
by the decision or notice.

3.5

See also paragraph  5  of Schedule 13 (maximum amount of penalties: group of
entities).

##### Liability of fellow subsidiary entities for failures by subsidiary entities

4

4.1

This paragraph applies if—

4.1.a

OFCOM are satisfied that there are grounds to give an entity (“ E ”) a
relevant decision or notice relating to a regulated service,

4.1.b

E is the provider of that service,

4.1.c

E is a subsidiary undertaking, and

4.1.d

there is an entity which is a fellow subsidiary undertaking in relation to E
(a “fellow subsidiary entity”).

4.2

The relevant decision or notice may be given—

4.2.a

to E alone, or

4.2.b

jointly to E and to a fellow subsidiary entity.

4.3

But—

4.3.a

before giving a penalty notice to a fellow subsidiary entity, or giving a
confirmation decision to a fellow subsidiary entity which was not previously
given a provisional notice of contravention relating to the same matter, OFCOM
must give that entity an opportunity to make representations to OFCOM about—

4.3.a.i

the matters contained in the decision or notice, and

4.3.a.ii

whether joint and several liability would be appropriate; and

4.3.b

a relevant decision or notice may be given to a fellow subsidiary entity only
if that entity’s acts or omissions contributed to the failure in respect of
which the decision or notice is given.

4.4

If a relevant decision or notice is given to entities jointly as mentioned in
sub-paragraph  (2)(b) , those entities are jointly and severally liable to
comply with the requirements, or (as the case may be) pay the penalty, imposed
by the decision or notice.

4.5

See also paragraph  5  of Schedule 13 (maximum amount of penalties: group of
entities).

##### Liability of controlling individuals for failures by entities

5

5.1

This paragraph applies if—

5.1.a

OFCOM are satisfied that there are grounds to give an entity (“ E ”) a
relevant decision or notice relating to a regulated service,

5.1.b

E is the provider of that service, and

5.1.c

an individual or individuals control E.

5.2

The relevant decision or notice may be given—

5.2.a

to E alone, or

5.2.b

(subject to sub-paragraph  (5) ) jointly to E and to the individual or
individuals who control E.

5.3

But before giving a penalty notice to an individual, or giving a confirmation
decision to an individual who was not previously given a provisional notice of
contravention relating to the same matter, OFCOM must give that individual an
opportunity to make representations to OFCOM about—

5.3.a

the matters contained in the decision or notice, and

5.3.b

whether joint and several liability would be appropriate.

5.4

An individual or individuals are to be taken to “control” E if that individual
or those individuals would, if they were an undertaking, be a parent
undertaking in relation to E within the meaning of section 1162 of the
Companies Act by reason of meeting the condition in subsection (2)(a), (b),
(c) or (d) or (4)(a) of that section.

5.5

OFCOM may not give a relevant decision or notice to an individual or
individuals (“ P ”) if—

5.5.a

the condition by reason of which P controls E is the condition in section
1162(2)(a) of the Companies Act, and

5.5.b

P makes representations (under section 130 (8)  as applied by paragraph  1(6)
, or under sub-paragraph  (3) ) which satisfy OFCOM that P does not control E
by reason of any condition in section 1162(2)(b), (c) or (d) or (4) of the
Companies Act.

5.6

If a relevant decision or notice is given jointly to E and to an individual or
individuals as mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2)(b) , that entity and that
individual or those individuals are jointly and severally liable to comply
with the requirements, or (as the case may be) pay the penalty, imposed by the
decision or notice.

##### OFCOM’s guidance

6

OFCOM’s guidance under section 151 must include information about the factors
that OFCOM would consider it appropriate to take into account when considering
whether to give a decision or notice jointly as mentioned in this Schedule.

##### Interpretation

7

In this Schedule—

“ the Companies Act ” means the Companies Act 2006; “ fellow subsidiary
undertaking ” has the meaning given by section 1161(4) of the Companies Act;
“parent undertaking” and “subsidiary undertaking” are to be read in accordance
with section 1162 of the Companies Act; “ penalty notice ” means a penalty
notice under section 139, 140 (5)  or 141 (6) ; “ relevant decision or notice
” means— a confirmation decision that includes requirements of a kind
described in section 133 (1)  or imposes a penalty as mentioned in section 137
(or both), or a penalty notice.

8

In its application for the purposes of this Schedule, paragraph 4 of Schedule
7 to the Companies Act is to be read as if the reference to operating and
financial policies were to policies relating to compliance with the regulatory
requirements imposed by this Act.

9

For the purposes of this Schedule, sections 1161(4) and 1162 of, and Schedule
7 to, the Companies Act—

9.a

are to apply in relation to an entity which is not an undertaking (as defined
in section 1161(1) of that Act) as they apply in relation to an undertaking,
and

9.b

are to be read with any necessary modifications if applied to an entity formed
under the law of a country outside the United Kingdom.

  Amendments of Part 4B of the Communications Act

Section 209

1

Part 4B of the Communications Act (video-sharing platform services) is amended
in accordance with this Schedule.

2

In section 368U (maintenance of list of providers)—

2.a

omit subsection (2);

2.b

for subsection (3) substitute—

2.b.3

OFCOM must publish the up to date list on a publicly accessible part of their
website.

3

In section 368V(4) (meaning of “ significant differences ”), for the words
from “the determination of jurisdiction” to the end substitute  “whether or
not the person has the required connection with the United Kingdom under
section 368S(2)(d)” .

4

In section 368Y(2)(d) (information to be provided by providers of video-
sharing platform services), for the words from “under the jurisdiction” to the
end substitute  “subject to regulation under this Part in respect of the
video-sharing platform service that P provides” .

5

In section 368Z1(3) (duty to take appropriate measures), for the words from
“of the description” to the end substitute  “to monitor the information which
they transmit or store, or actively to seek to discover facts or circumstances
indicating illegal activity” .

6

In section 368Z10(3)(a) (power to demand information), for the words from
“falls under” to the end substitute  “has the required connection with the
United Kingdom under section 368S(2)(d)” .

7

For section 368Z12 (co-operation with member States and the European
Commission) substitute—

######## Co-operation with EEA States

7.368Z12

OFCOM may co-operate with EEA states which are subject to the Audiovisual
Media Services Directive, and with the national regulatory authorities of such
EEA states, for the following purposes—

7.368Z12.a

facilitating the carrying out by OFCOM of any of their functions under this
Part; or

7.368Z12.b

facilitating the carrying out by the national regulatory authorities of the
EEA states of any of their functions in relation to video-sharing platform
services under that Directive as it has effect in EU law as amended from time
to time.

Video-sharing platform services: transitional provision etc

Section 211

##### Interpretation

1

1.1

In this Schedule, “ pre-existing Part 4B service ” means—

1.1.a

an internet service which—

1.1.a.i

is a video-sharing platform service by reason of the conditions in section
368S(1) and (2) of the Communications Act being met in relation to the service
as a whole, and

1.1.a.ii

was being provided immediately before this Schedule comes into force; or

1.1.b

a dissociable section of an internet service, where that dissociable section—

1.1.b.i

is a video-sharing platform service by reason of the conditions in section
368S(1)(a) and (2) of the Communications Act being met in relation to that
dissociable section, and

1.1.b.ii

was being provided immediately before this Schedule comes into force.

1.2

In sub-paragraph (1), any reference to a service provided before this Schedule
comes into force includes a reference to a service provided in breach of the
requirement in section 368V of the Communications Act.

2

In this Schedule—

“ the relevant day ”, in relation to a pre-existing Part 4B service or to a
service which includes a pre-existing Part 4B service, means— the date when
section 210 comes into force (repeal of Part 4B of the Communications Act), or
if the pre-existing Part 4B service ceases to be a video-sharing platform
service before the date mentioned in paragraph (a), the date when that service
ceases to be a video-sharing platform service; “ safety duties ” means the
duties mentioned in section 7(2), (4) and (5), except the duties set out in—
section 9 (illegal content risk assessments), section 11 (children’s risk
assessments), section 14 (assessments related to the adult user empowerment
duty set out in section 15(2)), and section 23 (2) ,  (9)  and  (10)  (records
of assessments); “ the transitional period ”, in relation to a pre-existing
Part 4B service or to a service which includes a pre-existing Part 4B service,
means the period— beginning with the date when this Schedule comes into force,
and ending with the relevant day; “ video-sharing platform service ” has the
same meaning as in Part 4B of the Communications Act (see section 368S of that
Act).

##### During the transitional period

###### Pre-existing Part 4B services which are regulated user-to-user services

3

3.1

This paragraph applies in relation to a pre-existing Part 4B service which—

3.1.a

is within the definition in paragraph (a) of paragraph 1(1), and

3.1.b

is also a regulated user-to-user service.

3.2

Both this Act and Part 4B of the Communications Act apply in relation to the
pre-existing Part 4B service during the transitional period.

3.3

But that is subject to—

3.3.a

sub-paragraph (4),

3.3.b

sub-paragraph (5), and

3.3.c

paragraph 4.

3.4

The following duties and requirements under this Act do not apply during the
transitional period in relation to the pre-existing Part 4B service—

3.4.a

the safety duties;

3.4.b

the duties set out in section 38 (fraudulent advertising);

3.4.c

the duties set out in section 64 (user identity verification);

3.4.d

the requirements under section 66(1) and (2) (reporting CSEA content to the
NCA);

3.4.e

the duties set out in sections 71 and 72 (terms of service);

3.4.f

the duties set out in section 75 (deceased child users);

3.4.g

the duty on OFCOM to give a notice under section 77(1) requiring information
in a transparency report;

3.4.h

the requirements to produce transparency reports under section 77(3) and (4).

3.5

OFCOM’s powers under Schedule 12 to this Act (powers of entry, inspection and
audit) do not apply during the transitional period in relation to the pre-
existing Part 4B service.

3.6

In sub-paragraph (2) the reference to this Act does not include a reference to
Part 6 (fees); for the application of Part 6, see Part 3 of this Schedule.

###### Regulated user-to-user services that include regulated provider pornographic content

4

4.1

The duties set out in section 81 of this Act do not apply during the
transitional period in relation to any regulated provider pornographic content
published or displayed on a pre-existing Part 4B service.

4.2

In the case of a regulated user-to-user service which includes a pre-existing
Part 4B service within the definition in paragraph (b) of paragraph 1(1),
nothing in sub-paragraph (1) is to be taken to prevent the duties set out in
section 81 from applying during the transitional period in relation to any
regulated provider pornographic content published or displayed on any other
part of the service.

4.3

In this paragraph “ regulated provider pornographic content ” and “ published
or displayed ” have the same meaning as in Part 5 of this Act (see section
79).

###### Pre-existing Part 4B services which form part of regulated user-to-user services

5

5.1

During the transitional period, Part 4B of the Communications Act applies in
relation to a pre-existing Part 4B service within the definition in paragraph
(b) of paragraph 1(1).

5.2

Sub-paragraph (3), and paragraphs 6 to 8, apply in relation to a regulated
user-to-user service which includes a pre-existing Part 4B service within the
definition in paragraph (b) of paragraph 1(1).

5.3

During the transitional period, this Act applies in relation to the regulated
user-to-user service with the modifications set out in paragraph 6, 7, or 8
(whichever applies).

5.4

In paragraphs 6 to 8 the dissociable section of the service which is the pre-
existing Part 4B service is referred to as “ the Part 4B part ”.

5.5

In sub-paragraph (3) the reference to this Act does not include a reference to
Part 6 (fees); for the application of Part 6, see Part 3 of this Schedule.

###### Regulated user-to-user services with a Part 4B part and another user-to-user part

6

6.1

This paragraph applies in relation to a regulated user-to-user service
described in paragraph 5(2) if the service would still be a regulated user-to-
user service even if the Part 4B part were to be assumed not to be part of the
service.

6.2

During the transitional period—

6.2.a

any duty or requirement mentioned in paragraph 3(4) which applies in relation
to the regulated service is to be treated as applying only in relation to the
rest of the service;

6.2.b

the powers mentioned in paragraph 3(5) are to be treated as applying only in
relation to the rest of the service.

6.3

In this paragraph “ the rest of the service ” means any user-to-user part of
the regulated service other than the Part 4B part.

###### Regulated user-to-user services with a Part 4B part and a search engine

7

7.1

This paragraph applies in relation to a regulated user-to-user service
described in paragraph 5(2) if the service would be a regulated search service
if the Part 4B part were to be assumed not to be part of the service.

7.2

During the transitional period, no duty or requirement mentioned in paragraph
3(4) applies in relation to the Part 4B part of the service (but that is not
to be taken to prevent any other duty or requirement under this Act from
applying in relation to the search engine of the service during the
transitional period).

7.3

During the transitional period, the powers mentioned in paragraph 3(5) are to
be treated as applying only in relation to the search engine of the service.

###### Regulated user-to-user services with a Part 4B part but no other user-to-user part or search engine

8

8.1

This paragraph applies in relation to a regulated user-to-user service
described in paragraph 5(2) if the service does not fall within paragraph 6 or
7.

8.2

The duties, requirements and powers mentioned in paragraph 3(4) and (5) do not
apply in relation to the regulated service during the transitional period.

###### Assessments of pre-existing Part 4B services or of services which include a pre-existing Part 4B service

9

See Part 3 of Schedule 3 for provision about—

9.a

the timing of certain assessments of pre-existing Part 4B services, and

9.b

modifications of Parts 1 and 2 of that Schedule in connection with certain
assessments of services which include a pre-existing Part 4B service within
the definition in paragraph (b) of paragraph 1(1).

###### Operation of section 368U of the Communications Act

10

During the transitional period, section 368U of the Communications Act has
effect as a requirement to establish and maintain an up to date list of
persons providing a video-sharing platform service to which Part 4B applies.

###### Video-sharing platform services which start up, or start up again, during the transitional period

11

Part 4B of the Communications Act does not apply in relation to a video-
sharing platform service which is first provided on or after the date when
this Schedule comes into force.

12

12.1

Sub-paragraph (2) applies in relation to a pre-existing Part 4B service if—

12.1.a

the service ceases to be a video-sharing platform service on a date within the
transitional period, and

12.1.b

the service begins again to be a video-sharing platform service on some later
date within the transitional period.

12.2

Part 4B of the Communications Act does not start applying again in relation to
the service on the date mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(b).

13

Paragraphs 11 and 12 apply regardless of whether, or when, a provider of a
service has notified the appropriate regulatory authority in accordance with
section 368V of the Communications Act.

##### Application of Part 6 of this Act: fees

###### Introduction

14

This Part makes provision about the application of the following provisions of
this Act in relation to a person who is the provider of a relevant regulated
service—

14.a

section 83 (duty to notify OFCOM in relation to the charging of fees);

14.b

section 84 (payment of fees);

14.c

Schedule 10 (additional fees).

15

In this Part “ relevant regulated service ” means—

15.a

a regulated user-to-user service which is a pre-existing Part 4B service
within the definition in paragraph (a) of paragraph 1(1), or

15.b

a regulated user-to-user service which includes a pre-existing Part 4B service
within the definition in paragraph (b) of paragraph 1(1).

###### Application of section 83

16

16.1

Sub-paragraph (2) applies in relation to a person who is the provider of a
relevant regulated service, whether or not the person is the provider of any
other regulated service.

16.2

Section 83, which makes provision about the notification of OFCOM in relation
to a charging year, applies to the provider in relation to every charging
year, regardless of whether any part, or all, of a charging year falls within
the transitional period.

17

17.1

This paragraph applies in relation to a person who is the provider of a
relevant regulated service, unless the person is an exempt provider (see
paragraph 24).

17.2

Sub-paragraph (3) applies in relation to the provider if—

17.2.a

the provider is required by section 83 to give details to OFCOM of the
provider’s qualifying worldwide revenue for the qualifying period that relates
to a charging year,

17.2.b

the provider gives such details in relation to that charging year at a time
within the transitional period, and

17.2.c

no regulations under section 240 (1)  have been made before that time
specifying that section 210 is to come into force on or before the first day
of that charging year.

17.3

The provider’s notification under section 83 about qualifying worldwide
revenue must include a breakdown indicating the amounts which are wholly
referable to a relevant Part 4B service (if any).

###### Application of section 84: transitional charging year

18

If a person who is the provider of a relevant regulated service is an exempt
provider, section 84 and Schedule 10 do not apply in relation to the provider
in respect of a transitional charging year (see paragraph 23).

19

19.1

If a person who is the provider of a relevant regulated service is not an
exempt provider, section 84 and Schedule 10 apply in relation to the provider
in respect of a transitional charging year.

19.2

But sub-paragraphs (3) and (4) apply in relation to the provider in respect of
a transitional charging year if the provider’s notification under section 83
in relation to that charging year has included details of amounts wholly
referable to a relevant Part 4B service (as mentioned in paragraph 17(3)).

19.3

For the purposes of the computation of the provider’s fee under section 84 in
respect of the transitional charging year, references in that section to the
provider’s qualifying worldwide revenue are to be taken to be references to
the provider’s non-Part 4B qualifying worldwide revenue.

19.4

OFCOM may not require the provider to pay a fee under section 84 in respect of
the transitional charging year if the provider’s non-Part 4B qualifying
worldwide revenue for the qualifying period that relates to that charging year
is less than the threshold figure that has effect for that charging year.

19.5

The amount of a provider’s “non-Part 4B qualifying worldwide revenue” is the
amount that would be the provider’s qualifying worldwide revenue (see section
85) if all amounts wholly referable to a relevant Part 4B service were left
out of account.

###### Application of section 84: non-transitional charging year

20

20.1

Sub-paragraph (2) applies in relation to a person who is the provider of a
relevant regulated service, whether or not the person is the provider of any
other regulated service.

20.2

Section 84 and Schedule 10 apply without modification in relation to the
provider in respect of a non-transitional charging year (even if the
notification date in relation to such a charging year fell within the
transitional period).

###### Amounts wholly referable to relevant Part 4B service

21

21.1

For the purposes of this Part, OFCOM may produce a statement giving
information about the circumstances in which amounts do, or do not, count as
being wholly referable to a relevant Part 4B service.

21.2

If OFCOM produce such a statement, they must publish it (and any revised or
replacement statement).

###### Interpretation of this Part

22

In this Part—

“ non-transitional charging year ” means a charging year which is not a
transitional charging year; “ notification date ”, in relation to a charging
year, means the latest date by which a notification under section 83 relating
to that charging year is required to be given (see section 83(5)); “ relevant
Part 4B service ” means— a regulated user-to-user service described in
paragraph 15(a), or a pre-existing Part 4B service included in a regulated
user-to-user service described in paragraph 15(b).

23

For the purposes of this Part a charging year is a “transitional charging
year” if—

23.a

the notification date in relation to that charging year fell within the
transitional period, and

23.b

no regulations under section 240 (1)  were made before the notification date
specifying that section 210 was to come into force on or before the first day
of that charging year.

24

24.1

In this Part “ exempt provider ” means a person within sub-paragraph (2) or
(3).

24.2

A person is within this sub-paragraph if the person is the provider of only
one regulated service, and that service is—

24.2.a

a regulated user-to-user service which is a pre-existing Part 4B service
within the definition in paragraph (a) of paragraph 1(1), or

24.2.b

a regulated user-to-user service which—

24.2.b.i

includes a pre-existing Part 4B service within the definition in paragraph (b)
of paragraph 1(1), and

24.2.b.ii

does not fall within paragraph 6 or 7.

24.3

A person is within this sub-paragraph if the person is the provider of more
than one regulated service, if each regulated service is of a kind described
in sub-paragraph (2).

25

In this Part the following terms have the same meaning as in Part 6 of this
Act—

“charging year”; “qualifying period”; “threshold figure”.

##### After the end of the transitional period

###### Interpretation of this Part

26

In this Part of this Schedule—

26.a

“ the repeal time ” means the time when section 210 of this Act comes into
force (repeal of Part 4B of the Communications Act);

26.b

(except in paragraph (a)) references to sections are to sections of the
Communications Act.

27

For the purposes of this Part an investigation relating to a person begins
when OFCOM notify the person to that effect.

###### OFCOM as appropriate regulatory authority

28

The repeal of section 368T does not affect OFCOM’s powers to act after the
repeal time as the appropriate regulatory authority under Part 4B of the
Communications Act as it has effect by virtue of this Part of this Schedule.

###### Duties of service providers to co-operate with investigations

29

The repeal of section 368Y(3)(c) (duty to co-operate) does not affect the
application of that provision after the repeal time in relation to—

29.a

an investigation as mentioned in section 368Z10(3)(f) begun before that time,
or

29.b

any demand for information for the purpose mentioned in section 368Z10(3)(i)
resulting from such an investigation.

###### Demands for information, and enforcement of such demands

30

30.1

The repeal of sections 368Y(3)(b) and 368Z10 (demands for information) does
not affect the application of those provisions after the repeal time in a case
in which—

30.1.a

OFCOM require information after the repeal time for the purposes of an
investigation as mentioned in section 368Z10(3)(f), and

30.1.b

the investigation was begun before that time.

30.2

The repeal of sections 368Z2, 368Z4 and 368Z10 does not affect the application
of those sections after the repeal time in connection with—

30.2.a

a failure to comply with a requirement under section 368Z10 imposed before
that time, or

30.2.b

a failure to comply with a requirement imposed after that time under section
368Z10 as it has effect in a case mentioned in sub-paragraph (1).

30.3

In this paragraph—

30.3.a

“the purposes of an investigation” include the purposes of any enforcement
action or proceedings resulting from an investigation;

30.3.b

references to sections 368Z2 and 368Z4 include references to those sections as
modified by section 368Z10.

###### Enforcement notifications, financial penalties etc

31

31.1

The repeal of sections 368W and 368Z4 (enforcement of section 368V) does not
affect the application of those sections after the repeal time in a case in
which OFCOM—

31.1.a

made a determination as mentioned in section 368W(1) before that time, or

31.1.b

began, before that time, to investigate whether they may have grounds to make
such a determination.

31.2

The repeal of sections 368Z2 and 368Z4 (enforcement of sections 368Y and
368Z1(6) and (7)) does not affect the application of those sections after the
repeal time in a case in which OFCOM—

31.2.a

made a determination as mentioned in section 368Z2(1) before that time, or

31.2.b

began, before that time, to investigate whether they may have grounds to make
such a determination.

31.3

The repeal of sections 368Z3 and 368Z4 (enforcement of sections 368Z1(1) and
(2)) does not affect the application of those sections after the repeal time
in a case in which OFCOM—

31.3.a

made a determination as mentioned in section 368Z3(1) before that time, or

31.3.b

began, before that time, to investigate whether they may have grounds to make
such a determination.

###### Suspension or restriction of service for contraventions or failures

32

32.1

The repeal of section 368Z5 (suspension or restriction of service for
contraventions or failures) does not affect the application of that section
after the repeal time in a case in which OFCOM—

32.1.a

made a determination as mentioned in section 368W(1), 368Z2(1) or 368Z3(1)
before that time, or

32.1.b

made such a determination after that time following an investigation begun
before that time.

32.2

The repeal of section 368Z5 does not affect the application of that section
(as modified by section 368Z10) after the repeal time in a case in which—

32.2.a

OFCOM are satisfied that a person failed to comply with a requirement under
section 368Z10 imposed before that time, or

32.2.b

OFCOM are satisfied that a person failed to comply with a requirement imposed
after that time under section 368Z10 as it has effect in a case mentioned in
paragraph  30 (1).

32.3

The repeal of sections 368Z7 (directions under sections 368Z5 and 368Z6) and
368Z8 (offence relating to such directions) does not affect the application of
those sections after the repeal time in connection with a direction given
under section 368Z5 as it has effect by virtue of this paragraph.

