Title: Patient Safety Commissioner for Scotland Act 2023
Date: 2024-05-16
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2023/6

## Patient Safety Commissioner for Scotland Act 2023

### Establishment

#### Patient Safety Commissioner for Scotland

1

1.1

The office of Patient Safety Commissioner for Scotland is established.

1.2

Schedule 1  makes further provision about the office.

### Purpose and principles

#### Functions

2

2.1

The Commissioner’s general functions are—

2.1.a

to advocate for systemic improvement in the safety of health care, and

2.1.b

to promote the importance of the views of patients and other members of the
public in relation to the safety of health care.

2.2

In exercising those functions, the Commissioner may in particular—

2.2.a

gather information, for example patient feedback, relating to the safety of
health care,

2.2.b

keep under review, analyse and report on information obtained,

2.2.c

make recommendations for systemic improvements in the safety of health care,

2.2.d

promote public awareness of safety practices in relation to health care,

2.2.e

promote co-ordination among health care providers and public authorities with
functions that relate to health care.

2.3

It is not the Commissioner’s role to resolve, or facilitate the resolution of,
grievances arising from past incidents; accordingly, the Commissioner has no
power to—

2.3.a

make awards, or provide any other form of redress, for harms suffered,

2.3.b

assist individuals in seeking redress for harms suffered,

2.3.c

opine on the action that another person ought to take in respect of an
individual in light of a past incident.

2.4

Nothing in  subsection (3)  precludes the Commissioner from investigating past
incidents in order to inform the actions that the Commissioner, and others,
may take to effect systemic improvement in the safety of health care.

#### Principles

3

3.1

The Commissioner must—

3.1.a

have a statement of the principles that are to inform the exercise of the
Commissioner’s functions, and

3.1.b

make the latest version of the statement publicly available.

3.2

The statement of principles must include the principle that the Commissioner
will seek to work co-operatively with other persons where appropriate, having
regard to the importance of the Commissioner’s independence.

### Strategic planning

#### Duty to have a plan

4

4.1

The Commissioner must—

4.1.a

have a strategic plan, and

4.1.b

make the latest version of the plan publicly available.

4.2

A strategic plan is a document setting out, for the period of the plan (as
defined in  section 5 (2) ), the Commissioner’s—

4.2.a

strategy for involving the public, and patients in particular, in the
Commissioner’s work,

4.2.b

objectives,

4.2.c

proposals for achieving the objectives,

4.2.d

timetable for doing so,

4.2.e

estimate of the costs for doing so.

4.3

The strategy referred to in  subsection (2) (a)  must, in particular, make
provision about how the Commissioner will seek to raise awareness of—

4.3.a

the Commissioner’s role, and

4.3.b

the ways in which the public may communicate with the Commissioner.

4.4

A strategic plan may include any other information the Commissioner considers
appropriate.

4.5

As soon as practicable after making a strategic plan, the Commissioner is to
lay a copy of it before the Scottish Parliament.

#### Frequency of planning

5

5.1

The Commissioner—

5.1.a

may make a new strategic plan at any time (having complied with  section 7 ),

5.1.b

must seek to ensure that there is no gap between the period of one plan ending
and that of its successor beginning.

5.2

The period of a strategic plan—

5.2.a

must not exceed 4 years,

5.2.b

begins on the date that the plan states it begins,

5.2.c

ends on the earlier of—

5.2.c.i

the date that the plan states it ends, or

5.2.c.ii

the date that the period of the plan’s successor begins.

### Charter

#### Patient Safety Charter

6

6.1

The Commissioner must—

6.1.a

have a charter, and

6.1.b

make the latest version of the charter publicly available.

6.2

The charter is to set out what the Commissioner expects of health care
providers in terms of standards and good practice.

6.3

The charter may, in particular, make provision in relation to the way that
health care providers engage with patients and their families.

6.4

The Commissioner must take the expectations set out in the charter into
account when considering a health care provider’s handling of an incident.

### Consultation on principles, strategic plan and charter

#### Duty to consult on principles, strategic plan and charter

7

7.1

Before finalising a document mentioned in  subsection (3) , the Commissioner—

7.1.a

must consult on a draft of it with—

7.1.a.i

the Parliamentary corporation,

7.1.a.ii

the advisory group established in accordance with  section 16 , and

7.1.a.iii

any other person the Commissioner considers appropriate having regard to the
importance of the document reflecting patients’ concerns,

7.1.b

may consult on a draft of it with any other person the Commissioner considers
appropriate.

7.2

In considering who it would be appropriate to consult for the purposes of
subsection (1) , the Commissioner is to give particular consideration to
groups whose needs are, in the Commissioner’s opinion, under-represented or
given insufficient weight in discourses around health care.

7.3

The documents are—

7.3.a

a statement of principles (see  section 3 ),

7.3.b

a strategic plan (see  section 4 ), and

7.3.c

a charter (see  section 6 ).

### Formal investigations

#### Initiation of formal investigation

8

8.1

A formal investigation into a health care safety issue begins when the
Commissioner first makes the investigation’s terms of reference publicly
available.

8.2

As soon as practicable after making a formal investigation’s terms of
reference publicly available, the Commissioner must take reasonable steps to
bring them to the attention of any person who, in the Commissioner’s opinion,
is likely to be—

8.2.a

required under  section 13  to supply information in relation to the
investigation, or

8.2.b

the addressee of a recommendation in the report produced at the conclusion of
the investigation.

8.3

Nothing in  this section  precludes the Commissioner from investigating an
issue otherwise than by way of a formal investigation.

#### Further provision about terms of reference

9

9.1

The terms of reference for a formal investigation under  section 8  must—

9.1.a

describe the issue to be investigated,

9.1.b

identify (by name or description) any person to whom the Commissioner expects
to address a recommendation in the report produced at the conclusion of the
investigation,

9.1.c

state whether the Commissioner expects to need access to individuals’
information in the course of the investigation,

9.1.d

if the Commissioner does expect to need access to individuals’ information,
state—

9.1.d.i

why that is the Commissioner’s expectation, and

9.1.d.ii

why the Commissioner expects to need that information in a form that does, or
does not (as the case may be), allow individuals to be identified.

9.2

Before finalising the terms of reference for a formal investigation, the
Commissioner—

9.2.a

must consult the advisory group established in accordance with  section 16 ,

9.2.b

may consult any other person that the Commissioner considers appropriate.

#### Investigation report

10

10.1

Having concluded a formal investigation under  section 8 , the Commissioner
must—

10.1.a

prepare a report on the investigation, and

10.1.b

lay a copy of it before the Scottish Parliament.

10.2

The report must state—

10.2.a

the Commissioner’s findings in relation to the issue investigated and the
reasons for them, and

10.2.b

the Commissioner’s recommendations in light of those findings.

10.3

The Commissioner must give a copy of the report to any person to whom a
recommendation in the report is addressed.

10.4

The Commissioner may address a recommendation to a person in a report on a
formal investigation whether or not—

10.4.a

the person was identified in the investigation’s terms of reference as a
person to whom the Commissioner expected to address a recommendation,

10.4.b

the Commissioner took steps to bring the investigation’s terms of reference to
the person’s attention in accordance with  section 8 (2) (b) .

#### Requirement to respond to report

11

11.1

A person is subject to a requirement to respond to a recommendation in a
report under  section 10  if—

11.1.a

the report states—

11.1.a.i

that the recommendation is addressed to the person, and

11.1.a.ii

the period within which the person’s response to the recommendation is
required, and

11.1.b

the Commissioner gives the person a copy of the report.

11.2

A person complies with a requirement to respond to a recommendation by giving
the Commissioner a written response to it before the end of the period within
which the report states that the person’s response is required.

11.3

A written response to a recommendation is a document setting out—

11.3.a

what the person responding has done, or proposes to do, to give effect to the
recommendation, and

11.3.b

if the person does not intend to do anything to give effect to the
recommendation (wholly or partly), the person’s reasons for that.

11.4

The Commissioner may, in whatever manner the Commissioner considers
appropriate—

11.4.a

make publicly available (in full or in part) a person’s written response to a
recommendation,

11.4.b

publicise a person’s failure to comply with a requirement to respond to a
recommendation.

### Gathering and use of information

#### Power to require information

12

12.1

The Commissioner may require a person to which  subsection (4)  applies to
supply the Commissioner with information that—

12.1.a

is in the person’s possession or control,

12.1.b

may be relevant to the work of the Commissioner,

12.1.c

is not information of a kind that the Commissioner is prohibited by
subsection (3)  from requiring the person to supply.

12.2

A requirement under this section is imposed on a person when the Commissioner
gives the person written notice specifying—

12.2.a

the information that the person is required to supply,

12.2.b

the way in which the person is required to supply it, and

12.2.c

either—

12.2.c.i

the time by which the person is to supply it, or

12.2.c.ii

the period throughout which the person is to supply it and the intervals
within that period at which it must be supplied.

12.3

The following are the kinds of information that the Commissioner is prohibited
from requiring a person to supply under this section—

12.3.a

information that the person would be entitled to refuse to provide in
proceedings in a court in Scotland,

12.3.b

information about an individual (whether or not it is anonymised).

12.4

This subsection applies to a person who is—

12.4.a

a health care provider,

12.4.b

a body constituted by virtue of the National Health Service (Scotland) Act
1978.

12.5

In  this section , “ information ” includes unrecorded information.

#### Further power to require information in a formal investigation

13

13.1

When carrying out a formal investigation under  section 8 , the Commissioner
may require any person to supply information that—

13.1.a

is in the person’s possession or control,

13.1.b

may be relevant to the investigation, and

13.1.c

is not information that the person would be entitled to refuse to provide in
proceedings in a court in Scotland.

13.2

But the Commissioner may only impose a requirement to supply information under
this section  if the Commissioner is satisfied that requiring the information
to be supplied is proportionate to the seriousness of the issue being
investigated.

13.3

A requirement under  this section  is imposed on a person when the
Commissioner gives the person written notice specifying—

13.3.a

the information that the person is required to supply,

13.3.b

the way in which the person is required to supply it, and

13.3.c

the time by which the person is to supply it.

13.4

The Commissioner may require a person to supply information under  this
section  whether or not—

13.4.a

the Commissioner stated in a formal investigation’s terms of reference that
the Commissioner expected to need access to the information,

13.4.b

the Commissioner took steps to bring the investigation’s terms of reference to
the person’s attention in accordance with  section 8 (2) (a) .

13.5

The Commissioner’s power to require a person to supply information under  this
section  is without prejudice to the Commissioner’s power to require a person
to supply information under  section 12 .

13.6

In  this section , “ information ” includes unrecorded information.

#### Failure to supply required information

14

14.1

The Commissioner may take the action mentioned in  subsection (3)  or  (4)
(or both actions) where—

14.1.a

a requirement to supply information has been imposed on a person by a written
notice under  section 12  or  13 , and

14.1.b

the person refuses, or fails without reasonable excuse, to supply the
information in accordance with the terms of the notice.

14.2

The Commissioner may take the action mentioned in  subsection (4)  where—

14.2.a

a requirement to supply information has been imposed on a person by a written
notice under  section 12  or  13 , and

14.2.b

the Commissioner suspects the person has deliberately altered the information.

14.3

The Commissioner may publicise the person’s refusal, or failure, to supply the
information.

14.4

The Commissioner may report the matter to the Court of Session.

14.5

After receiving a report under  subsection (4) , and hearing any evidence or
representations on the matter, the Court may (either or both)—

14.5.a

make any order for enforcement that it considers appropriate,

14.5.b

deal with the matter as if it were a contempt of court.

#### Confidentiality of information

15

15.1

A person mentioned in  subsection (3)  commits an offence if the person
knowingly or recklessly makes an unauthorised disclosure of information that—

15.1.a

has been obtained by or on behalf of the Commissioner for the purposes of
exercising the Commissioner’s functions,

15.1.b

is not, and has not been, in the public domain when the disclosure is made.

15.2

A disclosure of information is authorised for the purpose of  subsection (1)
in so far as it is—

15.2.a

made with the consent of the person from whom the information was obtained,

15.2.b

necessary for the purpose of enabling, or assisting, the exercise of the
Commissioner’s functions,

15.2.c

made for the purpose of legal proceedings, whether civil or criminal
(including for the purposes of investigating an offence or suspected offence),

15.2.d

made for the purpose of assisting one of the following persons in exercising
their statutory functions—

15.2.d.i

Healthcare Improvement Scotland,

15.2.d.ii

the Commissioner for Patient Safety in relation to England, which is an office
established by section 1 of the Medicines and Medical Devices Act 2021,

15.2.d.iii

the Scottish Public Services Ombudsman,

15.2.e

required by an enactment or rule of law.

15.3

The persons referred to in  subsection (1)  are—

15.3.a

the Commissioner,

15.3.b

a member of the Commissioner’s staff,

15.3.c

a member of the advisory group established in accordance with  section 16 ,

15.3.d

an agent of the Commissioner.

15.4

A person who commits an offence under  subsection (1)  is liable—

15.4.a

on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum,

15.4.b

on conviction on indictment, to a fine.

### Miscellaneous provisions

#### Advisory group

16

16.1

The Commissioner must establish and maintain an advisory group.

16.2

The purpose of the group is to give advice and information to the Commissioner
about matters relating to the Commissioner’s functions.

16.3

The members of the group are to be appointed by the Commissioner.

16.4

The Commissioner may only appoint a person as a member of the group if the
appointment—

16.4.a

has been approved by the Parliamentary corporation,

16.4.b

would not result in the number of members of the group exceeding the maximum
determined by the Parliamentary corporation,

16.4.c

is consistent with the principle that at least half of the group’s members are
to be persons who appear to the Commissioner to be representative of patients.

16.5

The Commissioner may pay to members of the group such remuneration and
allowances (including expenses) as the Commissioner, with the approval of the
Parliamentary corporation, determines.

16.6

The advisory group’s procedure and terms of membership are to be determined by
the Commissioner.

16.7

Nothing in this section precludes the Commissioner from obtaining advice from
any other person.

#### Reports

17

17.1

Aside from the reports that the Commissioner has a duty to lay before the
Scottish Parliament, the Commissioner may lay before the Parliament any other
report prepared by the Commissioner if the Commissioner considers it
appropriate to do so.

17.2

The Commissioner must ensure that, so far as reasonably practicable having
regard to the subject matter, a report does not name or otherwise identify an
individual who has—

17.2.a

given information to the Commissioner, and

17.2.b

not consented to being named in the report.

#### Protection from actions of defamation

18

18.1

For the purposes of the law of defamation—

18.1.a

any statement made to the Commissioner has absolute privilege,

18.1.b

any statement in the Commissioner’s report on an investigation has absolute
privilege,

18.1.c

any other statement made by the Commissioner has qualified privilege.

18.2

In  this section —

18.2.a

a reference to a statement being made to or by the Commissioner—

18.2.a.i

includes a statement being made to or by (as the case may be) a member of the
Commissioner’s staff,

18.2.a.ii

does not include a statement made to or by (as the case may be) an individual
when the individual is not acting in the individual’s capacity as the
Commissioner or a member of the Commissioner’s staff,

18.2.b

“ statement ” has the same meaning as in the Defamation and Malicious
Publication (Scotland) Act 2021.

#### Directions about premises and sharing of resources

19

19.1

The Commissioner must comply with any direction given to the Commissioner by
the Parliamentary corporation in relation to—

19.1.a

the location of the Commissioner’s office,

19.1.b

the sharing of premises, staff, services or other resources.

19.2

The Parliamentary corporation is to make any direction under  this section
publicly available.

19.3

A direction under  this section  may vary or revoke a previous direction.

### Final provisions

#### Application of public authorities legislation

20

Schedule 2  modifies other enactments so that their provisions apply to the
office of Commissioner.

#### Interpretation

21

In this Act—

      “ Commissioner ” means the Patient Safety Commissioner for Scotland,
“ forensic medical examination ” is to be construed in accordance with section
2(3) of the Forensic Medical Services (Victims of Sexual Offences) (Scotland)
Act 2021,           “ health care ” means—         services provided for or in
connection with the prevention, diagnosis or treatment of illness, and
forensic medical examinations,                 “ Parliamentary corporation ”
means the Scottish Parliamentary Corporate Body,           “ patient ”—
is to be construed in accordance with the National Health Service (Scotland)
Act 1978, and           includes a person to whom a forensic medical
examination is provided.

#### Ancillary provision

22

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make any incidental, supplementary,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision they consider
appropriate for the purposes of, in connection with or for giving full effect
to this Act or any provision made under it.

#### Regulation-making powers

23

23.1

Regulations under this Act may make different provision for different
purposes.

23.2

Regulations under  section 22  may modify any enactment (including this Act).

23.3

Regulations under  section 22 —

23.3.a

which add to, replace or omit any part of the text of an Act are subject to
the affirmative procedure,

23.3.b

otherwise, are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Commencement

24

24.1

The following provisions come into force the day after Royal Assent:  this
section  and  sections 21 ,  22 ,  23  and  25 .

24.2

The other provisions of this Act come into force on such day as the Scottish
Ministers may by regulations appoint.

#### Short title

25

The short title of this Act is the Patient Safety Commissioner for Scotland
Act 2023.

  The office of Patient Safety Commissioner for Scotland

(introduced by  section 1 )

##### Status and independence

###### Legal personality

1

The Commissioner is, as such, to be regarded as a juristic person distinct
from the individual holding the office.

###### Exclusion of Crown Status

2

2.1

The Commissioner—

2.1.a

is not a servant or agent of the Crown, and

2.1.b

does not enjoy any status, immunity or privilege of the Crown.

2.2

The Commissioner’s property is not to be regarded as property of, or property
held on behalf of, the Crown.

2.3

Individuals working as the Commissioner’s staff are not, on that account, to
be regarded as civil servants.

###### Independence

3

3.1

The Commissioner is not, except as provided in the provisions listed in  sub-
paragraph (2) , subject to the direction or control of—

3.1.a

any member of the Scottish Parliament,

3.1.b

the Scottish Ministers, or

3.1.c

the Parliamentary corporation.

3.2

The provisions referred to in  sub-paragraph (1)  are—

3.2.a

sections  16 (4)  and  (5)  and  19 (1) , and

3.2.b

paragraphs 6 ,  7 (3) ,  9 ,  10 (1) ,  11 (1) ,  14 (1) ,  16 (2) ,  17 (1) ,
19 (1)  and  (2) ,  21 (2)  and  22 (3)  of  this schedule .

##### Appointment, termination and terms and conditions

###### Appointment

4

4.1

The office of Commissioner is to be held by an individual appointed by His
Majesty on the nomination of the Scottish Parliament.

4.2

The Scottish Parliament must make arrangements for inquiring into whether a
person whom the Parliament is considering nominating for appointment to the
office of Commissioner is, or has been within the year preceding the date on
which the appointment is to take effect, an individual of a kind mentioned in
sub-paragraph (3) .

4.3

The kind of individual referred to in  sub-paragraph (2)  is an individual
with a financial interest in (including by reason of being remunerated by)—

4.3.a

a health care provider,

4.3.b

a body constituted by virtue of the National Health Service (Scotland) Act
1978,

4.3.c

a supplier or manufacturer of medicines or medical devices.

4.4

An individual may not be appointed to hold the office of Commissioner if the
individual—

4.4.a

is disqualified under  paragraph 5 ,

4.4.b

holds or has held the office of Commissioner.

###### Disqualification from appointment

5

An individual is disqualified from holding the office of Commissioner if the
individual is or, within the year preceding the date on which the appointment
is to take effect, has been—

5.a

a member of the Scottish Parliament,

5.b

a member of the House of Commons,

5.c

a member of the House of Lords.

###### Tenure

6

The Commissioner holds office for such period, not exceeding 8 years, as the
Parliamentary corporation determines at the time of appointment (subject to
paragraph 7 ).

###### Early termination

7

7.1

The Commissioner’s appointment ends if—

7.1.a

the Commissioner is relieved of office by His Majesty at the Commissioner’s
request,

7.1.b

the Commissioner becomes disqualified from holding office (see  paragraph 5 ),
or

7.1.c

the Commissioner is removed from office in accordance with  sub-paragraph (2)
.

7.2

The Commissioner may be removed from office by His Majesty if—

7.2.a

the condition in  sub-paragraph (3) (a) or (b) is met, and

7.2.b

the number of members voting in favour of the resolution referred to in the
condition in question is at least two thirds of the total number of seats for
members of the Scottish Parliament.

7.3

The conditions are—

7.3.a

that—

7.3.a.i

the Parliamentary corporation is satisfied that the Commissioner has breached
the Commissioner’s terms and conditions of appointment, and

7.3.a.ii

the Parliament resolves that the Commissioner should be removed from office
for that breach,

7.3.b

the Parliament resolves that it has lost confidence in the Commissioner’s
willingness, suitability or ability to exercise the Commissioner’s functions.

###### Validity of things done

8

The validity of things done by the Commissioner is not affected by—

8.a

a defect in the nomination or the appointment of the Commissioner,

8.b

the disqualification of an individual as the Commissioner after appointment.

###### Remuneration, allowances and pensions

9

9.1

The Parliamentary corporation may pay the Commissioner such remuneration and
allowances (including expenses) as the Parliamentary corporation determines.

9.2

The Parliamentary corporation must indemnify the Commissioner in respect of
any liabilities incurred by the Commissioner in the exercise of the
Commissioner’s functions.

9.3

The Parliamentary corporation may pay, or make arrangements for the payment
of, such pensions, allowances and gratuities to, or in respect of, any
individual who holds or has held the office of Commissioner as the
Parliamentary corporation determines.

9.4

Those arrangements may include—

9.4.a

making payments towards the provision of those pensions, allowances and
gratuities,

9.4.b

providing and maintaining schemes for the payment of those pensions,
allowances and gratuities.

9.5

The reference in  sub-paragraph (3)  to pensions, allowances and gratuities
includes pensions, allowances and gratuities by way of compensation for loss
of office.

###### Subsequent appointments etc.

10

10.1

A person who has ceased to be the Commissioner (“the former Commissioner”) may
not, without the approval of the Parliamentary corporation—

10.1.a

be employed or appointed in any capacity by the Commissioner,

10.1.b

be an employee or appointee of—

10.1.b.i

any person in relation to whom, or

10.1.b.ii

any body in relation to which,

an investigation under this Act has been carried out or continued by the
former Commissioner when Commissioner, or hold office in any such body, or

10.1.c

hold any other office, employment or appointment or engage in any other
occupation, that, by virtue of  paragraph 5 , the former Commissioner could
not have held or, as the case may be, engaged in when Commissioner.

10.2

The restriction in  sub-paragraph (1) —

10.2.a

starts when the person ceases to be the Commissioner, and

10.2.b

ends with the expiry of the financial year following the one in which it
started.

###### Other terms and conditions

11

11.1

The Parliamentary corporation may determine other terms and conditions of
appointment, in relation to matters not covered by this Act.

11.2

The terms and conditions may—

11.2.a

prohibit the Commissioner from holding any other specified office, employment
or appointment or engaging in any other specified occupation,

11.2.b

provide that the Commissioner’s holding any specified office, employment or
appointment or engagement in any specified occupation is subject to the
approval of the Parliamentary corporation.

11.3

In sub-paragraph (2), “ specified ” means specified (by name or description)
in the Commissioner's terms and conditions.

###### Acting Patient Safety Commissioner

12

12.1

This paragraph  applies during any period when—

12.1.a

the office of Commissioner is vacant, or

12.1.b

the individual holding the office is for any reason unable to carry out the
Commissioner’s functions.

12.2

The Parliamentary corporation may appoint an individual to act as the
Commissioner during that period.

12.3

An individual appointed under  sub-paragraph (2) —

12.3.a

is appointed on such terms and conditions as the Parliamentary corporation
determines,

12.3.b

while acting as Commissioner is to be treated for all purposes except those of
paragraphs 6 ,  7  and  9 (3) , as the Commissioner.

##### General powers

###### General powers

13

13.1

The Commissioner may do anything which appears to the Commissioner—

13.1.a

necessary or expedient in order to achieve, or in connection with the exercise
of the Commissioner’s functions, or

13.1.b

to be otherwise conducive to the exercise of those functions.

13.2

The Commissioner may, subject to  paragraph 15 , determine and charge
reasonable sums for providing anything in connection with the exercise of the
Commissioner’s functions.

###### Restrictions on general powers in relation to the acquisition or disposal of land

14

14.1

The Commissioner may not acquire or dispose of land without the approval of
the Parliamentary corporation.

14.2

In  sub-paragraph (1) , the reference to acquiring or disposing of land
includes acquiring or disposing of—

14.2.a

any right or interest in or over land,

14.2.b

a servitude or other right in or over land by the creation of a new right.

###### Restriction on charging for services

15

The Commissioner may not charge for providing anything to a body constituted
by virtue of the National Health Service (Scotland) Act 1978.

##### Staff

###### Staff

16

16.1

The Commissioner may appoint staff.

16.2

Those staff are appointed on such terms and conditions as the Commissioner,
with the approval of the Parliamentary corporation, determines.

###### Staff pensions

17

17.1

The Commissioner may, with the approval of the Parliamentary corporation, pay
or make arrangements for the payment of pensions, allowances and gratuities
to, or in respect of, any person who is or has been a member of the
Commissioner’s staff.

17.2

Those arrangements may include—

17.2.a

making payments towards the provision of those pensions, allowances and
gratuities,

17.2.b

providing and maintaining schemes for the payment of those pensions,
allowances and gratuities.

17.3

The reference in  sub-paragraph (1)  to pensions, allowances and gratuities
includes pensions, allowances and gratuities by way of compensation for loss
of office.

###### Authority to perform functions

18

18.1

The Commissioner may authorise any person to exercise any of the
Commissioner’s functions (and to such extent) as the Commissioner determines.

18.2

The giving of authority under  sub-paragraph (1)  in relation to a function
does not—

18.2.a

affect the Commissioner’s responsibility for the exercise of the function,

18.2.b

prevent the Commissioner from performing the function.

##### Accounts and accountability

###### Budget

19

19.1

The Commissioner must, before the start of each financial year—

19.1.a

prepare proposals for the Commissioner’s use of resources and expenditure
during the year (a “budget”),

19.1.b

by such date as the Parliamentary corporation determines, send the budget to
it for approval.

19.2

The Commissioner may, in the course of a financial year, prepare a revised
budget for the remainder of the year and send it to the Parliamentary
corporation for approval.

19.3

In preparing a budget or a revised budget, the Commissioner must ensure that
the Commissioner’s resources will be used economically, efficiently and
effectively.

19.4

A budget or a revised budget must contain a statement confirming that the
Commissioner has complied with the duty under  sub-paragraph (3) .

###### Accountable officer

20

20.1

The Parliamentary corporation must designate the Commissioner or a member of
the Commissioner’s staff as the accountable officer.

20.2

The functions of the accountable officer are—

20.2.a

signing the accounts of the expenditure and receipts of the Commissioner,

20.2.b

ensuring the propriety and regularity of the finances of the Commissioner,

20.2.c

ensuring that the resources of the Commissioner are used economically,
efficiently and effectively, and

20.2.d

where the accountable officer is not the Commissioner, the duty set out in
sub-paragraph (3) .

20.3

The duty referred to in  sub-paragraph (2) (d)  is a duty, where the
accountable officer is required to act in a way that the accountable officer
considers would be inconsistent with the proper performance of the functions
specified in  sub-paragraph (2)   (a)  to   (c) , to—

20.3.a

obtain written authority from the Commissioner before taking the action, and

20.3.b

send a copy of that authority as soon as possible to the Auditor General for
Scotland.

20.4

The accountable officer is answerable to the Scottish Parliament for the
performance of the functions specified in  sub-paragraph (2) .

###### Accounts and audit

21

21.1

The Commissioner must—

21.1.a

keep proper accounts and accounting records,

21.1.b

prepare in respect of each financial year a statement of accounts, and

21.1.c

send a copy of the statement to the Auditor General for Scotland for auditing.

21.2

The Commissioner must comply with any direction from the Scottish Ministers in
relation to the matters mentioned in  sub-paragraph (1) (a)  and  (b) .

21.3

The Commissioner must make the audited statement of accounts available,
without charge, for inspection at all reasonable times.

###### Annual report

22

22.1

The Commissioner must, in respect of each financial year—

22.1.a

prepare and make publicly available a report on the Commissioner’s activities
during that year, and

22.1.b

lay a copy of the report before the Scottish Parliament before the expiry of
the period of 7 months beginning with the last day of that year.

22.2

The report must include—

22.2.a

a review of issues identified by the Commissioner in the financial year as
being relevant to the Commissioner’s functions,

22.2.b

a review of the Commissioner’s activity in that year, including the steps
taken in connection with each of the Commissioner’s functions, and

22.2.c

any recommendations by the Commissioner arising out of such activity.

22.3

The Commissioner must comply with any direction from the Parliamentary
corporation in relation to the form and content of the annual report.

  Public authorities legislation

(introduced by  section 20 )

##### Scottish Public Services Ombudsman Act 2002

1

1.1

The Scottish Public Services Ombudsman Act 2002 is modified as follows.

1.2

In schedule 2, after paragraph 32 insert—

1.2.32ZA

The Patient Safety Commissioner for Scotland.

.

1.3

In schedule 5, after the entry relating to NHS Education for Scotland insert—

    The Patient Safety Commissioner for Scotland A matter of relevance to the
Commissioner’s general functions as defined in  section 2  of the Patient
Safety Commissioner for Scotland Act 2023

.

##### Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002

2

2.1

The Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002 is modified as follows.

2.2

In schedule 1, after paragraph 74 insert—

2.2.74A

The Patient Safety Commissioner for Scotland.

.

##### Public Services Reform (Scotland) Act 2010

3

3.1

The Public Services Reform (Scotland) Act 2010 is modified as follows.

3.2

In schedule 5, after the entry relating to the Parole Board for Scotland
insert— “Patient Safety Commissioner for Scotland”.

3.3

In schedule 6, after the entry relating to the Commissioner for Children and
Young People in Scotland insert— “Patient Safety Commissioner for Scotland”.

3.4

In schedule 8, after the entry relating to the Parole Board for Scotland
insert— “Patient Safety Commissioner for Scotland”.

##### Public Records (Scotland) Act 2011

4

4.1

The Public Records (Scotland) Act 2011 is modified as follows.

4.2

In the schedule, after the entry relating to the Parole Board for Scotland
insert— “Patient Safety Commissioner for Scotland”.

##### Procurement Reform (Scotland) Act 2014

5

5.1

The Procurement Reform (Scotland) Act 2014 is modified as follows.

5.2

In the schedule, after paragraph 40 insert—

5.2.40A

Patient Safety Commissioner for Scotland

.

##### Health and Care (Staffing) (Scotland) Act 2019

6

6.1

The Health and Care (Staffing) (Scotland) Act 2019 is modified as follows.

6.2

In section 2(3), after “Ministers” insert  “and the Patient Safety
Commissioner for Scotland” .

