Title: Powers of Attorney Act 2023
Date: 2024-02-08
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/42

## Powers of Attorney Act 2023

      B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Lasting powers of attorney

#### Lasting powers of attorney

1

The Schedule makes provision in relation to lasting powers of attorney.

### Certifying copies of power of attorney

#### Certifying copies of power of attorney

2

2.1

Section 3 of the Powers of Attorney Act 1971 is amended as follows.

2.2

In subsection (1)(b), after “authorised person” insert  “, chartered legal
executive” .

2.3

After subsection (3) insert—

2.3.3A

In this section “ chartered legal executive ” means a person authorised by the
Chartered Institute of Legal Executives to practise as a chartered legal
executive.

### General provisions

#### Extent, commencement and short title

3

3.1

This Act extends to England and Wales only, subject to  subsection (2) .

3.2

The following provisions extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern
Ireland—

3.2.a

section 2 ;

3.2.b

this section ;

3.2.c

paragraph 8 (a)  and  (b)  of  the Schedule .

3.3

This section  comes into force on the day on which this Act is passed.

3.4

Section 2  comes into force at the end of the period of two months beginning
with the day on which this Act is passed.

3.5

The remaining provisions of this Act come into force on such day or days as
the Lord Chancellor may by regulations made by statutory instrument appoint.

3.6

The regulations—

3.6.a

may make transitional, transitory or saving provision, and

3.6.b

may make different provision for different purposes.

3.7

This Act may be cited as the Powers of Attorney Act 2023.

  Lasting powers of attorney

Section 1

##### Registration of lasting powers of attorney

###### Introduction

1

Schedule 1 to the Mental Capacity Act 2005 (lasting powers of attorney:
formalities) is amended as follows.

###### Application for registration of lasting power of attorney

2

In paragraph 4—

2.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(a), after “made” insert  “by the donor” ;

2.b

omit sub-paragraph (2);

2.c

for sub-paragraph (3) substitute—

2.c.3

The application must be accompanied by the instrument (whether or not the
instrument complies with paragraph 1(1)(c)).

3

After that paragraph insert—

3.4A

If it appears to the Public Guardian that the instrument as submitted under
paragraph 4(3) fails in a prescribed respect to comply with paragraph 1(1)(c),
the Public Guardian must take any steps that may be prescribed for ensuring
that the instrument complies with paragraph 1(1)(c) in that respect.

###### Notifications

4

4.1

Omit paragraph 6.

4.2

For paragraph 7 substitute—

4.2.7

4.2.7.1

As soon as is practicable after both the conditions in sub-paragraph (2) are
met, the Public Guardian must notify the donor, the donee (or, if more than
one, each of them) and each named person that those conditions have been met.

4.2.7.2

The conditions are—

4.2.7.2.a

that the Public Guardian has received an application under paragraph 4 in
relation to an instrument intended to create a lasting power of attorney, and

4.2.7.2.b

that it appears to the Public Guardian that the instrument has been made in
accordance with this Schedule.

4.3

Omit paragraph 8.

###### Exclusion of notification requirements

5

For paragraph 10 and the italic heading before it substitute—

########## Exclusion of notification requirements

5.10

The Public Guardian may, on an application made by the donor with respect to a
named person, determine that paragraph 7 is not to apply in relation to that
person if satisfied that there are special circumstances which justify the
disapplication of that provision in relation to that person.

###### Identification requirements

6

After paragraph 10 insert—

########## Identification requirements

6.10A

6.10A.1

Regulations may impose, in respect of applications under paragraph 4 for the
registration of an instrument, requirements for the purpose of establishing or
verifying the identity of persons named in an instrument or taking part in the
process of an application.

6.10A.2

If it appears to the Public Guardian that a requirement imposed by regulations
under sub-paragraph (1) is not met in the case of an instrument, the Public
Guardian must not register the instrument unless directed to do so by the
court.

###### Objections to registration

7

7.1

In paragraph 13—

7.1.a

for sub-paragraph (3)(b) substitute—

7.1.a.b

before the end of the prescribed period, gives notice to the Public Guardian
of an objection to the registration on a prescribed ground.

;

7.1.b

for sub-paragraph (4) substitute—

7.1.b.4

The Public Guardian must not register the instrument unless—

7.1.b.4.a

the Public Guardian is satisfied that no evidence has been provided which
reasonably supports the making of the objection on that ground, or

7.1.b.4.b

the court, on the application of the donor or the donee (or, if more than one,
any of them), directs the Public Guardian to register the instrument.

7.2

After that paragraph insert—

############ Objection by third party

7.2.13A

7.2.13A.1

This paragraph applies where—

7.2.13A.1.a

an application has been made under paragraph 4 for the registration of an
instrument (and at the time when the notice mentioned in  paragraph (b)  is
given that application has not been determined),

7.2.13A.1.b

a third party has given the Public Guardian notice of an objection on a
relevant ground to the registration of the instrument (“the notice of
objection”), and

7.2.13A.1.c

that notice was given after the Public Guardian was first notified in a
prescribed manner by (or on behalf of) the donor of the donor’s intention to
make the application mentioned in  paragraph (a) .

7.2.13A.2

In  sub-paragraph (1)  “ on a relevant ground ” means—

7.2.13A.2.a

on the ground that an event mentioned in section 13(3) or (6)(a) to (d) has
occurred which has revoked the instrument, or

7.2.13A.2.b

on a prescribed ground.

7.2.13A.3

Where the notice of objection is given on the ground within  sub-paragraph (2)
(a)  and the Public Guardian is satisfied that the ground for making the
objection is established, the Public Guardian must not register the instrument
unless the court, on the application of the donor or the donee (or, if more
than one, any of them)—

7.2.13A.3.a

is satisfied that the ground is not established, and

7.2.13A.3.b

directs the Public Guardian to register the instrument.

7.2.13A.4

Where the notice of objection is given on a ground within  sub-paragraph (2)
(b)  the Public Guardian must not register the instrument unless—

7.2.13A.4.a

the Public Guardian is satisfied that no evidence has been provided which
reasonably supports the making of the objection on that ground, or

7.2.13A.4.b

the court, on the application of the donor or the donee (or, if more than one,
any of them) directs the Public Guardian to register the instrument.

7.2.13A.5

In this paragraph “ third party ” means a person who is not the donor, a donee
or a named person.

###### Evidence of registration

8

In paragraph 16—

8.a

in sub-paragraph (1), in the words before paragraph (a), after “Schedule”
insert  “before the day on which  paragraph 8 (a)  of the Schedule to the
Powers of Attorney Act 2022 comes into force” ;

8.b

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

8.b.1A

In the case of any instrument registered under this Schedule in electronic
form—

8.b.1A.a

the record in the register of that instrument is to be, in any part of the
United Kingdom, sufficient proof of the contents of the instrument;

8.b.1A.b

regulations may provide that a document provided by the Public Guardian in a
prescribed manner is to be, in any part of the United Kingdom, evidence of the
contents of the instrument and of the fact that it has been registered.

;

8.c

in sub-paragraph (2), for “Sub-paragraph (1) is” substitute  “Sub-paragraphs
(1) and (1A) are” .

##### Minor and consequential amendments

9

The Mental Capacity Act 2005 is amended as follows.

10

In section 58(4) (functions of the Public Guardian), after paragraph (c)
insert—

10.ca

the time at which such fees are to be paid;

.

11

In section 65 (rules, regulations and orders), in subsection (1)(c), after
“cases” insert  “or purposes” .

12

12.1

Schedule 1 is amended as follows.

12.2

In paragraph 5, for “11 to 14” substitute  “10A to 13A” .

12.3

In paragraph 9—

12.3.a

omit sub-paragraph (1);

12.3.b

in sub-paragraph (2), for “6, 7 or 8” substitute  “7” .

12.4

In paragraph 11(1)—

12.4.a

after “If” insert  “, at the end of the period mentioned in paragraph 5,” ;

12.4.b

for “an instrument accompanying an application under paragraph 4” substitute
“the instrument to which an application under paragraph 4 relates” .

12.5

In paragraph 13—

12.5.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(a), for “6, 7 or 8” substitute  “7” ;

12.5.b

in sub-paragraph (2), in the words before paragraph (a), for “person applying
for the registration” substitute  “donor or the donee (or, if more than one,
any of them)” ;

12.5.c

in sub-paragraph (3)(a), for “6, 7 or 8” substitute  “7” .

12.6

Omit paragraph 14 and the italic heading before it.

