Title: Public Order Act 2023
Date: 2024-11-06
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/15

## Public Order Act 2023

      B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Public order

#### Offences relating to locking on

##### Offence of locking on

1

1.1

A person commits an offence if—

1.1.a

they—

1.1.a.i

attach themselves to another person, to an object or to land,

1.1.a.ii

attach a person to another person, to an object or to land, or

1.1.a.iii

attach an object to another object or to land,

1.1.b

that act causes, or is capable of causing, serious disruption to—

1.1.b.i

two or more individuals, or

1.1.b.ii

an organisation,

in a place other than a dwelling, and

1.1.c

they intend that act to have a consequence mentioned in paragraph  (b)  or are
reckless as to whether it will have such a consequence.

1.2

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under subsection  (1)  to
prove that they had a reasonable excuse for the act mentioned in paragraph
(a)  of that subsection.

1.3

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (1)  is liable on summary
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the maximum term for
summary offences, to a fine or to both.

1.4

In subsection  (3) , “ the maximum term for summary offences ” means—

1.4.a

if the offence is committed before the time when section 281(5) of the
Criminal Justice Act 2003 (alteration of penalties for certain summary
offences: England and Wales) comes into force, six months;

1.4.b

if the offence is committed after that time, 51 weeks.

1.5

In this section “ dwelling ” means—

1.5.a

a building or structure which is used as a dwelling, or

1.5.b

a part of a building or structure, if the part is used as a dwelling,

and includes any yard, garden, grounds, garage or outhouse belonging to and
used with a dwelling.

##### Offence of being equipped for locking on

2

2.1

A person commits an offence if they have an object with them in a place other
than a dwelling with the intention that it may be used in the course of or in
connection with the commission by any person of an offence under section  1
(1)  (offence of locking on).

2.2

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (1)  is liable on summary
conviction to a fine.

2.3

In this section “ dwelling ” has the same meaning as in section  1 .

#### Offences relating to tunnelling

##### Offence of causing serious disruption by tunnelling

3

3.1

A person commits an offence if—

3.1.a

they create, or participate in the creation of, a tunnel,

3.1.b

the creation or existence of the tunnel causes, or is capable of causing,
serious disruption to—

3.1.b.i

two or more individuals, or

3.1.b.ii

an organisation,

in a place other than a dwelling, and

3.1.c

they intend the creation or existence of the tunnel to have a consequence
mentioned in paragraph (b) or are reckless as to whether its creation or
existence will have such a consequence.

3.2

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under subsection  (1)  to
prove that they had a reasonable excuse for creating, or participating in the
creation of, the tunnel.

3.3

Without prejudice to the generality of subsection  (2) , a person is to be
treated as having a reasonable excuse for the purposes of that subsection if
the creation of the tunnel was authorised by a person with an interest in land
which entitled them to authorise its creation.

3.4

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (1)  is liable—

3.4.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the general
limit in a magistrates’ court, to a fine or to both;

3.4.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years,
to a fine or to both.

3.5

For the purposes of this section—

3.5.a

“ tunnel ” means an excavation that extends beneath land, whether or not—

3.5.a.i

it is big enough to permit the entry or passage of an individual, or

3.5.a.ii

it leads to a particular destination;

3.5.b

an excavation which is created with the intention that it will become or
connect with a tunnel is to be treated as a tunnel, whether or not—

3.5.b.i

any tunnel with which it is intended to connect has already been created, or

3.5.b.ii

it is big enough to permit the entry or passage of an individual.

3.6

References in this section to the creation of an excavation include—

3.6.a

the extension or enlargement of an excavation, and

3.6.b

the alteration of a natural or artificial underground feature.

3.7

This section does not apply in relation to a tunnel if or to the extent that
it is in or under a dwelling.

3.8

In this section “ dwelling ” has the same meaning as in section  1  (offence
of locking on).

##### Offence of causing serious disruption by being present in a tunnel

4

4.1

A person commits an offence if—

4.1.a

they are present in a relevant tunnel having entered it after the coming into
force of this section,

4.1.b

their presence in the tunnel causes, or is capable of causing, serious
disruption to—

4.1.b.i

two or more individuals, or

4.1.b.ii

an organisation,

in a place other than a dwelling, and

4.1.c

they intend their presence in the tunnel to have a consequence mentioned in
paragraph  (b)  or are reckless as to whether their presence there will have
such a consequence.

4.2

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under subsection  (1)  to
prove that they had a reasonable excuse for their presence in the tunnel.

4.3

Without prejudice to the generality of subsection  (2) , a person (“ P ”) is
to be treated as having a reasonable excuse for the purposes of that
subsection if P’s presence in the tunnel was authorised by a person with an
interest in land which entitled them to authorise P’s presence there.

4.4

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (1)  is liable—

4.4.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the general
limit in a magistrates’ court, to a fine or to both;

4.4.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years,
to a fine or to both.

4.5

For the purposes of this section—

4.5.a

“ tunnel ” means an excavation that extends beneath land, whether or not it
leads to a particular destination;

4.5.b

an excavation which is created with the intention that it will become or
connect with a tunnel is to be treated as a tunnel, whether or not any tunnel
with which it is intended to connect has already been created.

4.6

In this section “ relevant tunnel ” means a tunnel that was created for the
purposes of, or in connection with, a protest (and it does not matter whether
an offence has been committed under  section 3  in relation to the creation of
the tunnel).

4.7

References in this section to the creation of an excavation include—

4.7.a

the extension or enlargement of an excavation, and

4.7.b

the alteration of a natural or artificial underground feature.

4.8

This section does not apply in relation to a tunnel if or to the extent that
it is in or under a dwelling.

4.9

In this section “ dwelling ” has the same meaning as in section  1  (offence
of locking on).

##### Offence of being equipped for tunnelling etc

5

5.1

A person commits an offence if they have an object with them in a place other
than a dwelling with the intention that it may be used in the course of or in
connection with the commission by any person of an offence under  section 3
(1)  or  4 (1)  (offences relating to tunnelling).

5.2

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (1)  is liable on summary
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the maximum term for
summary offences, to a fine or to both.

5.3

In subsection  (2) , “ the maximum term for summary offences ” means—

5.3.a

if the offence is committed before the time when section 281(5) of the
Criminal Justice Act 2003 (alteration of penalties for certain summary
offences: England and Wales) comes into force, six months;

5.3.b

if the offence is committed after that time, 51 weeks.

5.4

In this section “ dwelling ” has the same meaning as in section  1  (offence
of locking on).

#### Offences involving works and infrastructure

##### Obstruction etc of major transport works

6

6.1

A person commits an offence if the person—

6.1.a

obstructs the undertaker or a person acting under the authority of the
undertaker—

6.1.a.i

in setting out the lines of any major transport works,

6.1.a.ii

in constructing or maintaining any major transport works, or

6.1.a.iii

in taking any steps that are reasonably necessary for the purposes of
facilitating, or in connection with, the construction or maintenance of any
major transport works, or

6.1.b

interferes with, moves or removes any apparatus which—

6.1.b.i

relates to the construction or maintenance of any major transport works, and

6.1.b.ii

belongs to a person within subsection  (5) .

6.2

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under subsection  (1)  to
prove that—

6.2.a

they had a reasonable excuse for the act mentioned in paragraph  (a)  or  (b)
of that subsection, or

6.2.b

the act mentioned in paragraph  (a)  or  (b)  of that subsection was done
wholly or mainly in contemplation or furtherance of a trade dispute.

6.3

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (1)  is liable on summary
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the maximum term for
summary offences, to a fine or to both.

6.4

In subsection  (3)  “ the maximum term for summary offences ” means—

6.4.a

if the offence is committed before the time when section 281(5) of the
Criminal Justice Act 2003 (alteration of penalties for certain summary
offences: England and Wales) comes into force, six months;

6.4.b

if the offence is committed after that time, 51 weeks.

6.5

The following persons are within this subsection—

6.5.a

the undertaker;

6.5.b

a person acting under the authority of the undertaker;

6.5.c

a statutory undertaker;

6.5.d

a person acting under the authority of a statutory undertaker.

6.6

In this section “ major transport works ” means—

6.6.a

works in England and Wales—

6.6.a.i

relating to transport infrastructure, and

6.6.a.ii

the construction of which is authorised directly by an Act of Parliament, or

6.6.b

works the construction of which comprises development within subsection  (7)
that has been granted development consent by an order under section 114 of the
Planning Act 2008.

6.7

Development is within this subsection if—

6.7.a

it is or forms part of a nationally significant infrastructure project within
any of paragraphs (h) to (l) of section 14(1) of the Planning Act 2008,

6.7.b

it is or forms part of a project (or proposed project) in the field of
transport in relation to which a direction has been given under section 35(1)
of that Act (directions in relation to projects of national significance) by
the Secretary of State, or

6.7.c

it is associated development in relation to development within paragraph  (a)
or  (b) .

6.8

In this section “undertaker”—

6.8.a

in relation to major transport works within subsection  (6) (a) , means a
person who is authorised by or under the Act (whether as a result of being
appointed the nominated undertaker for the purposes of the Act or otherwise)
to construct or maintain any of the works;

6.8.b

in relation to major transport works within subsection  (6) (b) , means a
person who is constructing or maintaining any of the works (whether as a
result of being the undertaker for the purposes of the order granting
development consent or otherwise).

6.9

In this section—

“ associated development ” has the same meaning as in the Planning Act 2008
(see section 115 of that Act); “ development ” has the same meaning as in the
Planning Act 2008 (see section 32 of that Act); “ development consent ” has
the same meaning as in the Planning Act 2008 (see section 31 of that Act); “
England ” includes the English inshore region within the meaning of the Marine
and Coastal Access Act 2009 (see section 322 of that Act); “ maintain ”
includes inspect, repair, adjust, alter, remove, reconstruct and replace, and
“ maintenance ” is to be construed accordingly; “ nationally significant
infrastructure project ” has the same meaning as in the Planning Act 2008 (see
section 14(1) of that Act); “ statutory undertaker ” means a person who is, or
who is deemed to be, a statutory undertaker for the purposes of any provision
of Part 11 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990; “ trade dispute ” has
the same meaning as in Part 4 of the Trade Union and Labour Relations
(Consolidation) Act 1992, except that section 218 of that Act is to be read as
if— it made provision corresponding to section 244(4) of that Act, and in
subsection (5), the definition of worker included any person falling within
paragraph (b) of the definition of worker in section 244(5) of that Act; “
Wales ” includes the Welsh inshore region within the meaning of the Marine and
Coastal Access Act 2009 (see section 322 of that Act).

6.10

In section 14 of the Planning Act 2008 (nationally significant infrastructure
projects), after subsection (3) insert—

6.10.3A

An order under subsection (3)(a) may also amend section  6 (7) (a)  of the
Public Order Act 2023 (obstruction etc of major transport works).

##### Interference with use or operation of key national infrastructure

7

7.1

A person commits an offence if—

7.1.a

they do an act which interferes with the use or operation of any key national
infrastructure in England and Wales, and

7.1.b

they intend that act to interfere with the use or operation of such
infrastructure or are reckless as to whether it will do so.

7.2

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under subsection  (1)  to
prove that—

7.2.a

they had a reasonable excuse for the act mentioned in paragraph  (a)  of that
subsection, or

7.2.b

the act mentioned in paragraph  (a)  of that subsection was done wholly or
mainly in contemplation or furtherance of a trade dispute.

7.3

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (1)  is liable—

7.3.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the general
limit in a magistrates’ court, to a fine or to both;

7.3.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months, to a fine or to both.

7.4

For the purposes of subsection  (1)  a person’s act interferes with the use or
operation of key national infrastructure if it prevents the infrastructure
from being used or operated to any extent for any of its intended purposes.

7.5

The cases in which infrastructure is prevented from being used or operated for
any of its intended purposes include where its use or operation for any of
those purposes is significantly delayed.

7.6

In this section “ key national infrastructure ” means—

7.6.a

road transport infrastructure,

7.6.b

rail infrastructure,

7.6.c

air transport infrastructure,

7.6.d

harbour infrastructure,

7.6.e

downstream oil infrastructure,

7.6.f

downstream gas infrastructure,

7.6.g

onshore oil and gas exploration and production infrastructure,

7.6.h

onshore electricity generation infrastructure, or

7.6.i

newspaper printing infrastructure.

Section  8  makes further provision about these kinds of infrastructure.

7.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument—

7.7.a

amend subsection  (6)  to add a kind of infrastructure or to vary or remove a
kind of infrastructure;

7.7.b

amend section  8  to add, amend or remove provision about a kind of
infrastructure which is in, or is to be added to, subsection  (6)  or is to be
removed from that subsection.

7.8

Regulations under subsection  (7) —

7.8.a

may make different provision for different purposes;

7.8.b

may make consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional, transitory or
saving provision.

7.9

A statutory instrument containing regulations under subsection  (7)  may not
be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by
a resolution of each House of Parliament.

7.10

In this section—

      “ England ” includes the English inshore region within the meaning of
the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 (see section 322 of that Act);
“ trade dispute ” has the same meaning as in Part 4 of the Trade Union and
Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act 1992, except that section 218 of that Act
is to be read as if—         it made provision corresponding to section 244(4)
of that Act, and           in subsection (5), the definition of worker
included any person falling within paragraph (b) of the definition of worker
in section 244(5) of that Act;                 “ Wales ” includes the Welsh
inshore region within the meaning of the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009
(see section 322 of that Act).

##### Key national infrastructure

8

8.1

This section has effect for the purposes of section  7 .

8.2

“ Road transport infrastructure ” means—

8.2.a

a special road within the meaning of the Highways Act 1980 (see section 329(1)
of that Act), or

8.2.b

a road which, under the system for assigning identification numbers to roads
administered by the Secretary of State or the Welsh Ministers, has for the
time being been assigned a number prefixed by A or B.

8.3

“ Rail infrastructure ” means infrastructure used for the purposes of railway
services within the meaning of Part 1 of the Railways Act 1993 (see section 82
of that Act).

8.4

In the application of section 82 of the Railways Act 1993 for the purposes of
subsection  (3)  “railway” has the wider meaning given in section 81(2) of
that Act.

8.5

“ Air transport infrastructure ” means—

8.5.a

an airport within the meaning of the Airports Act 1986 (see section 82(1) of
that Act), or

8.5.b

any infrastructure which—

8.5.b.i

does not form part of an airport within the meaning of that Act, and

8.5.b.ii

is used for the provision of air traffic services within the meaning of Part 1
of the Transport Act 2000 (see section 98 of that Act).

8.6

“ Harbour infrastructure ” means a harbour within the meaning of the Harbours
Act 1964 (see section 57(1) of that Act) which provides facilities for or in
connection with—

8.6.a

the embarking or disembarking of passengers who are carried in the course of a
business, or

8.6.b

the loading or unloading of cargo which is carried in the course of a
business.

8.7

“ Downstream oil infrastructure ” means infrastructure used for or in
connection with any of the following activities—

8.7.a

the refinement or other processing of crude oil or oil feedstocks;

8.7.b

the storage of crude oil or crude oil-based fuel for onward distribution,
other than storage by a person who supplies crude oil-based fuel to the public
where the storage is for the purposes of such supply;

8.7.c

the loading or unloading of crude oil or crude oil-based fuel for onward
distribution, other than unloading to a person who supplies crude oil-based
fuel to the public where the unloading is for the purposes of such supply;

8.7.d

the carriage, by road, rail, sea or inland waterway, of crude oil or crude
oil-based fuel for the purposes of onward distribution;

8.7.e

the conveyance of crude oil or crude oil-based fuel by means of a pipe-line
within the meaning of the Pipe-lines Act 1962 (see section 65 of that Act).

8.8

“ Downstream gas infrastructure ” means infrastructure used for or in
connection with any of the following activities—

8.8.a

the processing of gas;

8.8.b

the storage of gas for onward conveyance, other than storage by a person who
supplies gas to the public otherwise than by means of a pipe-line where the
storage is for the purposes of such supply;

8.8.c

the import or export of liquid gas;

8.8.d

the carriage, by road or rail, of gas for the purposes of onward distribution;

8.8.e

the conveyance of gas by means of a pipe-line.

8.9

In subsection  (8) —

      “ gas ” has the same meaning as in section 12 of the Gas Act 1995;
“ pipe-line ” has the same meaning as in the Pipe-lines Act 1962 (see section
65 of that Act).

8.10

“ Onshore oil and gas exploration and production infrastructure ” means
onshore infrastructure used for or in connection with—

8.10.a

searching or boring for petroleum, or

8.10.b

getting petroleum.

8.11

In subsection  (10) —

      “ onshore infrastructure ” means infrastructure situated on land
(excluding land covered by the sea or any tidal waters);           “ petroleum
” has the same meaning as in Part 1 of the Petroleum Act 1998 (see section 1
of that Act).

8.12

“ Onshore electricity generation infrastructure ” means onshore
infrastructure—

8.12.a

used for or in connection with the generation of electricity for the purpose
of giving a supply to any premises or enabling a supply to be so given, and

8.12.b

which has a total installed capacity equal to or greater than 100 megawatts.

8.13

In subsection  (12) —

      “ onshore infrastructure ” means infrastructure situated on land
(excluding land covered by the sea or any tidal waters);           “ supply ”,
in relation to electricity, has the same meaning as in Part 1 of the
Electricity Act 1989 (see section 4(4) of that Act).

8.14

“ Newspaper printing infrastructure ” means infrastructure the primary purpose
of which is the printing of one or more national or local newspapers.

8.15

In subsection  (14) —

      “ local newspaper ” means a newspaper which is published at least
fortnightly and is in circulation in a part of England and Wales;           “
national newspaper ” means a newspaper which is published at least fortnightly
and is in circulation in England, in Wales or in both;           “ newspaper ”
includes a periodical or magazine.

#### Interference with access to or provision of abortion services

##### Offence of interference with access to or provision of abortion services

9

9.1

It is an offence for a person who is within a safe access zone to do an act
with the intent of, or reckless as to whether it has the effect of—

9.1.a

influencing any person’s decision to access, provide or facilitate the
provision of abortion services at an abortion clinic,

9.1.b

obstructing or impeding any person accessing, providing, or facilitating the
provision of abortion services at an abortion clinic, or

9.1.c

causing harassment, alarm or distress to any person in connection with a
decision to access, provide, or facilitate the provision of abortion services
at an abortion clinic,

where the person mentioned in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) is within the safe
access zone for the abortion clinic.

9.2

A “ safe access zone ” means an area which is within a boundary which is 150
metres from any part of an abortion clinic or any access point to any building
or site that contains an abortion clinic and is—

9.2.a

on or adjacent to a public highway or public right of way,

9.2.b

in an open space to which the public has access,

9.2.c

within the curtilage of an abortion clinic, or building or site which contains
an abortion clinic, or

9.2.d

in any location that is visible from a public highway, public right of way,
open space to which the public have access, or the curtilage of an abortion
clinic.

9.3

No offence is committed under  subsection (1)  by—

9.3.a

a person inside a dwelling where the person affected is also in that or
another dwelling, or

9.3.b

a person inside a building or site used as a place of worship where the person
affected is also in that building or site.

9.4

A person guilty of an offence under  subsection (1)  is liable on summary
conviction to a fine.

9.5

Nothing in this section applies to—

9.5.a

anything done in the course of providing, or facilitating the provision of,
abortion services in an abortion clinic,

9.5.b

anything done in the course of providing medical care within a regulated
healthcare facility,

9.5.c

any person or persons accompanying, with consent, a person or persons
accessing, providing or facilitating the provision of, or attempting to
access, provide or facilitate the provision of, abortion services, or

9.5.d

the operation of a camera if its coverage of persons accessing or attempting
to access an abortion clinic is incidental.

9.6

In this section—

      “ abortion clinic ” means—         a place approved for the purposes of
section 1 of the Abortion Act 1967 by the Secretary of State under subsection
(3) of that section, or           a hospital identified in a notification to
the Chief Medical Officer under section 2(1) of the Abortion Act 1967 in the
current or previous calendar year, and published identifying it as such, where
“current” or “previous” are references to the time at which an alleged offence
under subsection (1) of this section takes place;                 “ abortion
services ” means any treatment for the termination of pregnancy;           “
dwelling ” has the same meaning as in  section 1  of this Act (offence of
locking on).

#### Powers to stop and search

##### Powers to stop and search on suspicion

10

In section 1(8) of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (offences in
relation to which stop and search power applies)—

10.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (d), and

10.b

after paragraph (e) insert—

10.b.f

an offence under section 137 of the Highways Act 1980 (wilful obstruction)
involving activity which causes or is capable of causing serious disruption to
two or more individuals or to an organisation;

10.b.g

an offence under section 78 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act
2022 (intentionally or recklessly causing public nuisance);

10.b.h

an offence under section  1  of the Public Order Act 2023 (offence of locking
on);

10.b.i

an offence under  section 3  of that Act (offence of causing serious
disruption by tunnelling);

10.b.j

an offence under  section 4  of that Act (offence of causing serious
disruption by being present in a tunnel);

10.b.k

an offence under section  6  of that Act (obstruction etc of major transport
works); and

10.b.l

an offence under section  7  of that Act (interference with use or operation
of key national infrastructure).

##### Powers to stop and search without suspicion

11

11.1

This section applies if a police officer of or above the rank of inspector
reasonably believes—

11.1.a

that any of the following offences may be committed in any locality within the
officer’s police area—

11.1.a.i

an offence under section 137 of the Highways Act 1980 (wilful obstruction)
involving activity which causes or is capable of causing serious disruption to
two or more individuals or to an organisation;

11.1.a.ii

an offence under section 78 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act
2022 (intentionally or recklessly causing public nuisance);

11.1.a.iii

an offence under section  1  (offence of locking on);

11.1.a.iv

an offence under section 3 (offence of causing serious disruption by
tunnelling);

11.1.a.v

an offence under section 4 (offence of causing serious disruption by being
present in a tunnel);

11.1.a.vi

an offence under section  6  (obstruction etc of major transport works);

11.1.a.vii

an offence under section  7  (interference with use or operation of key
national infrastructure), or

11.1.b

that persons are carrying prohibited objects in any locality within the
officer’s police area.

11.2

In this section “ prohibited object ” means an object which—

11.2.a

is made or adapted for use in the course of or in connection with an offence
within subsection  (1) (a) , or

11.2.b

is intended by the person having it with them for such use by them or by some
other person,

and for the purposes of this section a person carries a prohibited object if
they have it in their possession.

11.3

If the further condition in subsection  (4)  is met, the police officer may
give an authorisation that the powers conferred by this section are to be
exercisable—

11.3.a

anywhere within a specified locality within the officer’s police area, and

11.3.b

for a specified period not exceeding 24 hours.

11.4

The further condition is that the police officer reasonably believes that—

11.4.a

the authorisation is necessary to prevent the commission of offences within
subsection  (1) (a)  or the carrying of prohibited objects (as the case may
be),

11.4.b

the specified locality is no greater than is necessary to prevent such
activity, and

11.4.c

the specified period is no longer than is necessary to prevent such activity.

11.5

If it appears to a police officer of or above the rank of superintendent that
it is necessary to do so to prevent the commission of offences within
subsection  (1) (a)  or the carrying of prohibited objects, the officer may
direct that the authorisation is to continue in force for a further period not
exceeding 24 hours.

11.6

This section confers on any constable in uniform power—

11.6.a

to stop any person and search them or anything carried by them for a
prohibited object;

11.6.b

to stop any vehicle and search the vehicle, its driver and any passenger for a
prohibited object.

11.7

A constable may, in the exercise of the powers conferred by subsection  (6) ,
stop any person or vehicle and make any search the constable thinks fit
whether or not the constable has any grounds for suspecting that the person or
vehicle is carrying a prohibited object.

11.8

If in the course of a search under this section a constable discovers an
object which the constable has reasonable grounds for suspecting to be a
prohibited object, the constable may seize it.

11.9

This section and sections  12  (further provisions about authorisations and
directions under this section),  13  (further provisions about searches under
this section) and  14  (offence relating to this section) apply (with the
necessary modifications) to ships, aircraft and hovercraft as they apply to
vehicles.

11.10

In this section and the sections mentioned in subsection  (9) —

      “ specified ” means specified in an authorisation under this section;
“ vehicle ” includes a caravan as defined in section 29(1) of the Caravan
Sites and Control of Development Act 1960.

11.11

The powers conferred by this section and the sections mentioned in subsection
(9)  do not affect any power conferred otherwise than by this section or those
sections.

##### Further provisions about authorisations and directions under section 

12

12.1

If an inspector gives an authorisation under section  11 , the inspector must,
as soon as it is practicable to do so, cause an officer of or above the rank
of superintendent to be informed.

12.2

An authorisation under section  11  must—

12.2.a

be given in writing signed by the officer giving it,

12.2.b

specify the grounds on which it is given, and

12.2.c

specify the locality in which and the period during which the powers conferred
by that section are exercisable.

12.3

A direction under section  11 (5)  must—

12.3.a

be given in writing, or

12.3.b

where it is not practicable to comply with paragraph  (a) , be recorded in
writing as soon as it is practicable to do so.

12.4

References (however expressed) in section  11  or this section to a police
officer of or above a particular rank include references to a member of the
British Transport Police Force of or above that rank.

12.5

In the application of section  11  to a member of the British Transport Police
Force by virtue of subsection  (4) , references to a locality within the
officer’s police area are to be read as references to a place in England and
Wales of a kind mentioned in section 31(1)(a) to (f) of the Railways and
Transport Safety Act 2003.

##### Further provisions about searches under section 

13

13.1

A person who is searched by a constable under section  11  is entitled to
obtain a written statement that the person was searched under the powers
conferred by that section.

13.2

Subsection  (1)  applies only if the person applies for the statement within
the period of 12 months beginning with the day on which the person was
searched.

13.3

Where a vehicle is stopped by a constable under section  11 , the driver is
entitled to obtain a written statement that the vehicle was stopped under the
powers conferred by that section.

13.4

Subsection  (3)  applies only if the driver applies for the statement within
the period of 12 months beginning with the day on which the vehicle was
stopped.

13.5

Any object seized by a constable under section  11  may be retained in
accordance with regulations made by the Secretary of State.

13.6

The Secretary of State may make regulations regulating the retention and safe
keeping, and the disposal or destruction in circumstances prescribed in the
regulations, of such an object.

13.7

Regulations under this section are to be made by statutory instrument.

13.8

Regulations under this section—

13.8.a

may make different provision for different purposes;

13.8.b

may make consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional, transitory or
saving provision.

13.9

A statutory instrument containing regulations under this section is subject to
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

##### Offence relating to section 

14

14.1

A person commits an offence if the person intentionally obstructs a constable
in the exercise of the constable’s powers under section  11 .

14.2

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (1)  is liable on summary
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 51 weeks, to a fine not
exceeding level 3 on the standard scale or to both.

14.3

In relation to an offence committed before the coming into force of section
281(5) of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (alteration of penalties for certain
summary offences: England and Wales), the reference in subsection  (2)  to 51
weeks is to be read as a reference to 1 month.

#### Processions, assemblies and one-person protests

##### Processions, assemblies and one-person protests: delegation of functions

15

In section 15 of the Public Order Act 1986 (processions, assemblies and one-
person protests: delegation of functions), for subsection (2) substitute—

15.2

Subsection (1) has effect—

15.2.a

in the City of London as if “an assistant chief constable” read “an assistant
commissioner of police or a commander”, and

15.2.b

in the metropolitan police district as if “an assistant chief constable” read
“an assistant commissioner of police, a deputy assistant commissioner of
police or a commander”.

##### Assemblies and one-person protests: British Transport Police and MoD Police

16

16.1

The Public Order Act 1986 is amended as follows.

16.2

In section 14 (imposing conditions on public assemblies)—

16.2.a

in subsection (2), after paragraph (b) (and on a new line) insert  “This is
subject to subsections  (2ZA)  and  (2ZB) .” ,

16.2.b

after subsection (2) insert—

16.2.b.2ZA

The reference in subsection (2)(a) to a police officer includes—

16.2.b.2ZA.a

a constable of the British Transport Police Force, in relation to a place
within section 31(1)(a) to (f) of the Railways and Transport Safety Act 2003;

16.2.b.2ZA.b

a member of the Ministry of Defence Police, in relation to a place to which
section 2(2) of the Ministry of Defence Police Act 1987 applies.

16.2.b.2ZB

The reference in subsection (2)(b) to a chief officer of police includes—

16.2.b.2ZB.a

the chief constable of the British Transport Police Force, in relation to a
place within section 31(1)(a) to (f) of the Railways and Transport Safety Act
2003;

16.2.b.2ZB.b

the chief constable of the Ministry of Defence Police, in relation to a place
to which section 2(2) of the Ministry of Defence Police Act 1987 applies.

, and

16.2.c

in subsection (3)—

16.2.c.i

omit “by a chief officer of police”, and

16.2.c.ii

after “(2)(b)” insert  “or  (2ZB) ” .

16.3

In section 14ZA (imposing conditions on one-person protests)—

16.3.a

in subsection (5), after paragraph (b) (and on a new line) insert  “This is
subject to subsections  (5A)  and  (5B) .” ,

16.3.b

after subsection (5) insert—

16.3.b.5A

The reference in subsection (5)(a) to a police officer includes—

16.3.b.5A.a

a constable of the British Transport Police Force, in relation to a one-person
protest—

16.3.b.5A.a.i

being held at a place within section 31(1)(a) to (f) of the Railways and
Transport Safety Act 2003, or

16.3.b.5A.a.ii

intended to be held at a place within sub-paragraph (i) in a case where a
person is in that place with a view to carrying on such a protest;

16.3.b.5A.b

a member of the Ministry of Defence Police, in relation to a one-person
protest—

16.3.b.5A.b.i

being held at a place to which section 2(2) of the Ministry of Defence Police
Act 1987 applies, or

16.3.b.5A.b.ii

intended to be held at a place within sub-paragraph (i) in a case where a
person is in that place with a view to carrying on such a protest.

16.3.b.5B

The reference in subsection (5)(b) to a chief officer of police includes—

16.3.b.5B.a

the chief constable of the British Transport Police Force, in relation to a
one-person protest intended to be held at a place within section 31(1)(a) to
(f) of the Railways and Transport Safety Act 2003, other than a one-person
protest within subsection  (5A) (a) (ii) ;

16.3.b.5B.b

the chief constable of the Ministry of Defence Police, in relation to a one-
person protest intended to be held at a place to which section 2(2) of the
Ministry of Defence Police Act 1987 applies, other than a one-person protest
within subsection  (5A) (b) (ii) .

, and

16.3.c

in subsection (9)—

16.3.c.i

omit “by a chief officer of police”, and

16.3.c.ii

after “(5)(b)” insert  “or  (5B) ” .

16.4

In section 14A (prohibiting trespassory assemblies)—

16.4.a

after subsection (4) insert—

16.4.a.4A

Subsection  (4D)  applies if at any time the chief constable of the British
Transport Police Force reasonably believes that—

16.4.a.4A.a

an assembly is intended to be held at a place—

16.4.a.4A.a.i

within section 31(1)(a) to (f) of the Railways and Transport Safety Act 2003,
and

16.4.a.4A.a.ii

on land to which the public has no right of access or only a limited right of
access, and

16.4.a.4A.b

the conditions in subsections  (4B)  and  (4C)  are met.

16.4.a.4B

The condition in this subsection is that the assembly is likely—

16.4.a.4B.a

to be held without the permission of the occupier of the land, or

16.4.a.4B.b

to conduct itself in such a way as to exceed—

16.4.a.4B.b.i

the limits of any permission of the occupier, or

16.4.a.4B.b.ii

the limits of the public’s right of access.

16.4.a.4C

The condition in this subsection is that the assembly may result—

16.4.a.4C.a

in serious disruption to the provision of railway services (within the meaning
of Part 3 of the Railways and Transport Safety Act 2003),

16.4.a.4C.b

in serious disruption to the life of the community, or

16.4.a.4C.c

where the land, or a building or monument on it, is of historical,
architectural, archaeological or scientific importance, in significant damage
to the land, building or monument.

16.4.a.4D

Where this subsection applies, the chief constable of the British Transport
Police Force may with the consent of the relevant national authority make an
order prohibiting for a specified period the holding of all trespassory
assemblies in a specified area.

16.4.a.4E

An area specified in an order under subsection  (4D)  must comprise only—

16.4.a.4E.a

the place mentioned in subsection  (4A) (a) , or

16.4.a.4E.b

that place together with any place—

16.4.a.4E.b.i

within section 31(1)(a) to (f) of the Railways and Transport Safety Act 2003,
or

16.4.a.4E.b.ii

where an assembly could affect a railway within the meaning of Part 3 of that
Act or anything occurring on or in relation to such a railway.

16.4.a.4F

In subsection  (4D)  “ the relevant national authority ” means—

16.4.a.4F.a

in relation to an area in England and Wales, the Secretary of State;

16.4.a.4F.b

in relation to an area in Scotland, the Scottish Ministers.

16.4.a.4G

Subsection  (4J)  applies if at any time the chief constable of the Ministry
of Defence Police reasonably believes that—

16.4.a.4G.a

an assembly is intended to be held at a place—

16.4.a.4G.a.i

to which section 2(2) of the Ministry of Defence Police Act 1987 applies, and

16.4.a.4G.a.ii

on land to which the public has no right of access or only a limited right of
access, and

16.4.a.4G.b

the conditions in subsections  (4H)  and  (4I)  are met.

16.4.a.4H

The condition in this subsection is that the assembly is likely—

16.4.a.4H.a

to be held without the permission of the occupier of the land, or

16.4.a.4H.b

to conduct itself in such a way as to exceed—

16.4.a.4H.b.i

the limits of any permission of the occupier, or

16.4.a.4H.b.ii

the limits of the public’s right of access.

16.4.a.4I

The condition in this subsection is that the assembly may result—

16.4.a.4I.a

in serious disruption to the use for a defence purpose of—

16.4.a.4I.a.i

a place within section 2(2)(a) to (c) of the Ministry of Defence Police Act
1987,

16.4.a.4I.a.ii

a place within section 4(1) of the Atomic Weapons Establishment Act 1991, or

16.4.a.4I.a.iii

in relation to a time after the coming into force of section 5 of the Defence
Reform Act 2014, a place within subsection (1) of that section,

16.4.a.4I.b

in serious disruption to the life of the community, or

16.4.a.4I.c

where the land, or a building or monument on it, is of historical,
architectural, archaeological or scientific importance, in significant damage
to the land, building or monument.

16.4.a.4J

Where this subsection applies, the chief constable of the Ministry of Defence
Police may with the consent of the Secretary of State make an order
prohibiting for a specified period the holding of all trespassory assemblies
in a specified area.

16.4.a.4K

An area specified in an order under subsection  (4J)  which is not made in
reliance on subsection  (4I) (a)  must comprise only one or more places to
which section 2(2) of the Ministry of Defence Police Act 1987 applies.

,

16.4.b

in subsection (7), for “or subsection (4)” substitute  “, subsection (4),
subsection  (4D)  or subsection  (4J) ” , and

16.4.c

in subsection (9), in the definition of “occupier”, for “and (4)” substitute
“, (4),  (4B)  and  (4H) ” .

16.5

In section 15 (delegation), after subsection (2) insert—

16.5.3

The chief constable of the British Transport Police Force may delegate, to
such extent and subject to such conditions as the chief constable may specify,
any of the chief constable’s functions under sections 14 to
14A to an assistant chief constable of that Force; and references in those
sections to the person delegating shall be construed accordingly.

16.5.4

The chief constable of the Ministry of Defence Police may delegate, to such
extent and subject to such conditions as the chief constable may specify, any
of the chief constable’s functions under sections 14 to 14A to a deputy chief
constable or assistant chief constable of that force; and references in those
sections to the person delegating shall be construed accordingly.

#### Exercise of police powers in relation to journalists etc

##### Exercise of police powers in relation to journalists etc

17

17.1

A constable may not exercise a police power for the sole purpose of preventing
a person from observing or reporting on a protest.

17.2

A constable may not exercise a police power for the sole purpose of preventing
a person from observing or reporting on the exercise of a police power in
relation to—

17.2.a

a protest-related offence,

17.2.b

a protest-related breach of an injunction, or

17.2.c

activities related to a protest.

17.3

This section does not affect the exercise by a constable of a police power for
any purpose for which it may be exercised apart from this section.

17.4

In this section—

“ injunction ” means an injunction granted by the High Court, the county court
or a youth court; “ police power ” means a power which is conferred on a
constable by or by virtue of an enactment or by a rule of law; “ protest-
related breach ”, in relation to an injunction, means a breach which is
directly related to a protest; “ protest-related offence ” means an offence
which is directly related to a protest.

#### Proceedings by the Secretary of State

##### Power of Secretary of State to bring proceedings

18

18.1

Subsection  (4)  applies where—

18.1.a

the Secretary of State reasonably believes that one or more persons are
carrying out, or are likely to carry out, activities related to a protest, and

18.1.b

the condition in subsection  (2)  or  (3)  is met.

18.2

The condition in this subsection is that the Secretary of State reasonably
believes that the activities are causing, or are likely to cause, serious
disruption to—

18.2.a

the use or operation of any key national infrastructure in England and Wales,
or

18.2.b

access to any essential goods, or to any essential service, in England and
Wales.

18.3

The condition in this subsection is that the Secretary of State reasonably
believes that the activities are having, or are likely to have, a serious
adverse effect on public safety in England and Wales.

18.4

Where this subsection applies and the Secretary of State considers that it is
expedient in the public interest to do so, the Secretary of State may bring
civil proceedings relating to the activities in the name of the Secretary of
State.

18.5

Before bringing proceedings under subsection  (4)  in relation to any
activities the Secretary of State must consult such persons (if any) as the
Secretary of State considers appropriate, having regard to any persons who may
also bring civil proceedings in relation to those activities.

18.6

The bringing of proceedings by the Secretary of State under subsection  (4)
in relation to any activities does not affect the ability of any other person
to bring civil proceedings in relation to those activities.

18.7

The reference in subsection  (1) (a)  to “ activities ” does not include a
reference to activities carried out or likely to be carried out wholly or
mainly in contemplation or furtherance of a trade dispute.

18.8

In this section—

      “ key national infrastructure ” has the same meaning as in section  7
(key national infrastructure);           “ trade dispute ” has the same
meaning as in Part 4 of the Trade Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation)
Act 1992, except that section 218 of that Act is to be read as if—         it
made provision corresponding to section 244(4) of that Act, and           in
subsection (5), the definition of worker included any person falling within
paragraph (b) of the definition of worker in section 244(5) of that Act.

##### Injunctions in Secretary of State proceedings: power of arrest and remand

19

19.1

This section  applies to proceedings brought by the Secretary of State under
section 18  (power of Secretary of State to bring proceedings).

19.2

If the court grants an injunction which prohibits conduct which—

19.2.a

is capable of causing nuisance or annoyance to a person, or

19.2.b

is capable of having a serious adverse effect on public safety,

it may, if subsection  (3)  applies, attach a power of arrest to any provision
of the injunction.

19.3

This subsection  applies if the Secretary of State applies to the court to
attach the power of arrest and the court thinks that—

19.3.a

the conduct mentioned in subsection  (2)  consists of or includes the use or
threatened use of violence, or

19.3.b

there is a significant risk of harm to—

19.3.b.i

in the case of conduct mentioned in subsection  (2) (a) , the person mentioned
in that provision, and

19.3.b.ii

in the case of conduct mentioned in subsection  (2) (b) , the public or a
section of the public.

19.4

Where a power of arrest is attached to any provision of an injunction under
subsection  (2) , a constable may arrest without warrant a person whom the
constable has reasonable cause for suspecting to be in breach of that
provision.

19.5

After making an arrest under subsection  (4)  the constable must as soon as is
reasonably practicable inform the Secretary of State.

19.6

Where a person is arrested under subsection  (4) —

19.6.a

the person must appear before the court within the period of 24 hours
beginning at the time of arrest, and

19.6.b

if the matter is not then disposed of forthwith, the court may remand the
person.

19.7

For the purposes of subsection  (6) , when calculating the period of 24 hours
referred to in paragraph  (a)  of that subsection, no account is to be taken
of Christmas Day, Good Friday or any Sunday.

19.8

The Schedule  applies in relation to the power to remand under subsection  (6)
.

19.9

If the court has reason to consider that a medical report will be required,
the power to remand a person under subsection  (6)  may be exercised for the
purpose of enabling a medical examination and report to be made.

19.10

If such a power is so exercised the adjournment is not to be in force—

19.10.a

for more than three weeks at a time in a case where the court remands the
accused person in custody, or

19.10.b

for more than four weeks at a time in any other case.

19.11

If there is reason to suspect that a person who has been arrested under
subsection  (4)  is suffering from mental disorder within the meaning of the
Mental Health Act 1983 the court is to have the same power to make an order
under section 35 of that Act (remand for report on accused's mental condition)
as the Crown Court has under that section in the case of an accused person
within the meaning of that section.

19.12

In  this section —

      “ harm ” includes serious ill-treatment or abuse (whether physical or
not);           “ the court ” means the High Court or the county court and
includes—         in relation to the High Court, a judge of that court, and
in relation to the county court, a judge of that court.

### Serious disruption prevention orders

#### Serious disruption prevention orders made on conviction

##### Serious disruption prevention order made on conviction

20

20.1

This section applies where—

20.1.a

a person aged 18 or over (“ P ”) is convicted of an offence (“the current
offence”) which was committed on or after the day on which this section comes
into force, and

20.1.b

the prosecution applies for a serious disruption prevention order to be made
in respect of P.

20.2

The court dealing with P in respect of the current offence may make a serious
disruption prevention order in respect of P if—

20.2.a

the court is satisfied on the balance of probabilities that the current
offence is a protest-related offence (see section  32  (interpretation)),

20.2.b

the condition in subsection  (3)  is met, and

20.2.c

the court considers it necessary to make the order for a purpose mentioned in
subsection  (5) .

20.3

The condition in this subsection is that the court is satisfied on the balance
of probabilities that—

20.3.a

within the relevant period, P has—

20.3.a.i

committed another protest-related offence for which P was convicted, or

20.3.a.ii

committed a protest-related breach of an injunction (see section  32
(interpretation)) for which P was found in contempt of court,

20.3.b

the current offence and P’s conduct mentioned in paragraph  (a) —

20.3.b.i

relate to different protests, or

20.3.b.ii

took place on different days, and

20.3.c

P’s conduct mentioned in paragraph (a) has not been taken into account when
making any previous serious disruption prevention order in respect of P.

20.4

In subsection  (3)  “ the relevant period ” means the period of 5 years ending
with the day on which P is convicted of the current offence; but P’s conduct
may be taken into account for the purposes of this section only if it took
place—

20.4.a

on or after the day on which this section comes into force, and

20.4.b

when P was aged 16 or over.

20.5

The purposes are—

20.5.a

to prevent P from committing a protest-related offence or a protest-related
breach of an injunction;

20.5.b

to prevent P from carrying out activities related to a protest that result in,
or are likely to result in, serious disruption to two or more individuals, or
to an organisation, in England and Wales;

20.5.c

to prevent P from causing or contributing to—

20.5.c.i

the commission by any other person of a protest-related offence or a protest-
related breach of an injunction, or

20.5.c.ii

the carrying out by any other person of activities related to a protest that
result in, or are likely to result in, serious disruption to two or more
individuals, or to an organisation, in England and Wales;

20.5.d

to protect two or more individuals, or an organisation, in England and Wales
from the risk of serious disruption arising from—

20.5.d.i

a protest-related offence,

20.5.d.ii

a protest-related breach of an injunction, or

20.5.d.iii

activities related to a protest.

20.6

A serious disruption prevention order under this section is an order which,
for a purpose mentioned in subsection  (5) —

20.6.a

requires P to do anything described in the order;

20.6.b

prohibits P from doing anything described in the order.

20.7

The court may make a serious disruption prevention order in respect of P only
if it is made in addition to—

20.7.a

a sentence imposed in respect of the current offence, or

20.7.b

an order discharging P conditionally.

20.8

For the purpose of deciding whether to make a serious disruption prevention
order the court may consider evidence led by the prosecution or P.

20.9

It does not matter whether the evidence would have been admissible in the
proceedings for the current offence.

20.10

The court may adjourn any proceedings on an application for a serious
disruption prevention order even after sentencing P.

20.11

If P does not appear for any adjourned proceedings the court may—

20.11.a

further adjourn the proceedings,

20.11.b

issue a warrant for P’s arrest, or

20.11.c

hear the proceedings in P’s absence.

20.12

The court may not act under subsection  (11) (b)  unless it is satisfied that
P has had adequate notice of the time and place of the adjourned proceedings.

20.13

The court may not act under subsection  (11) (c)  unless it is satisfied that
P—

20.13.a

has had adequate notice of the time and place of the adjourned proceedings,
and

20.13.b

has been informed that if P does not appear for those proceedings the court
may hear the proceedings in P’s absence.

20.14

On making a serious disruption prevention order the court must in ordinary
language explain to P the effects of the order.

20.15

Where an offence is found to have been committed over a period of 2 or more
days, or at some time during a period of 2 or more days, it must be taken for
the purposes of this section to have been committed on the last of those days.

#### Serious disruption prevention orders made on application

##### Serious disruption prevention order made on application

21

21.1

A magistrates’ court may make a serious disruption prevention order in respect
of a person (“ P ”) where—

21.1.a

a person within subsection  (7)  applies by complaint to the court for a
serious disruption prevention order to be made in respect of P,

21.1.b

P is aged 18 or over when the application is made,

21.1.c

the condition in subsection  (2)  is met, and

21.1.d

the court considers it necessary to make the order for a purpose mentioned in
subsection  (4) .

21.2

The condition in this subsection is that the court is satisfied on the balance
of probabilities that—

21.2.a

on at least two occasions in the relevant period, P has—

21.2.a.i

committed a protest-related offence for which P was convicted, or

21.2.a.ii

committed a protest-related breach of an injunction for which P was found in
contempt of court,

21.2.b

P’s conduct in relation to each occasion mentioned in paragraph  (a) —

21.2.b.i

related to a different protest, or

21.2.b.ii

took place on a different day, and

21.2.c

P’s conduct in relation to each occasion mentioned in paragraph (a) has not
been taken into account when making any previous serious disruption prevention
order in respect of P.

21.3

In subsection  (2)  “ the relevant period ” means the period of 5 years ending
with the day on which the order is made; but P’s conduct may be taken into
account for the purposes of this section only if it took place—

21.3.a

on or after the day on which this section comes into force, and

21.3.b

when P was aged 16 or over.

21.4

The purposes are—

21.4.a

to prevent P from committing a protest-related offence or a protest-related
breach of an injunction;

21.4.b

to prevent P from carrying out activities related to a protest that result in,
or are likely to result in, serious disruption to two or more individuals, or
to an organisation, in England and Wales;

21.4.c

to prevent P from causing or contributing to—

21.4.c.i

the commission by any other person of a protest-related offence or a protest-
related breach of an injunction, or

21.4.c.ii

the carrying out by any other person of activities related to a protest that
result in, or are likely to result in, serious disruption to two or more
individuals, or to an organisation, in England and Wales;

21.4.d

to protect two or more individuals, or an organisation, in England and Wales
from the risk of serious disruption arising from—

21.4.d.i

a protest-related offence,

21.4.d.ii

a protest related-breach of an injunction, or

21.4.d.iii

activities related to a protest.

21.5

A serious disruption prevention order under this section is an order which,
for a purpose mentioned in subsection  (4) —

21.5.a

requires P to do anything described in the order;

21.5.b

prohibits P from doing anything described in the order.

21.6

On making a serious disruption prevention order the court must in ordinary
language explain to P the effects of the order.

21.7

The following persons are within this subsection—

21.7.a

a relevant chief officer of police;

21.7.b

the chief constable of the British Transport Police Force;

21.7.c

the chief constable of the Civil Nuclear Constabulary;

21.7.d

the chief constable of the Ministry of Defence Police.

21.8

For the purposes of subsection  (7) (a)  a chief officer of police is a
relevant chief officer of police in relation to an application for a serious
disruption prevention order in respect of P if—

21.8.a

P lives in the chief officer’s police area, or

21.8.b

the chief officer believes that P is in, or is intending to come to, the chief
officer’s police area.

21.9

An application for a serious disruption prevention order made by a chief
officer of police for a police area may be made only to a court acting for a
local justice area that includes any part of that police area.

21.10

Where an offence is found to have been committed over a period of 2 or more
days, or at some time during a period of 2 or more days, it must be taken for
the purposes of this section to have been committed on the last of those days.

21.11

Section 127 of the Magistrates’ Courts Act 1980 (time limits) does not apply
to a complaint under this section.

#### Provisions of serious disruption prevention orders

##### Provisions of serious disruption prevention order

22

22.1

The only requirements and prohibitions that may be imposed on a person by a
serious disruption prevention order are those which the court making the order
thinks are necessary for a purpose mentioned in section  20 (5)  or  21 (4)
(as the case may be).

22.2

The requirements imposed on a person (“ P ”) by a serious disruption
prevention order may, in particular, have the effect of requiring P—

22.2.a

to present themselves to a particular person at a particular place at, or
between, particular times on particular days;

22.2.b

to remain at a particular place for particular periods.

22.3

Sections  23  and  24  make further provision about the inclusion of
requirements (including notification requirements) in a serious disruption
prevention order.

22.4

The prohibitions imposed on a person (“ P ”) by a serious disruption
prevention order may, in particular, have the effect of prohibiting P from—

22.4.a

being in or entering a particular place or area;

22.4.b

being in or entering a particular place or area between particular times on
particular days;

22.4.c

being in or entering a particular place or area between particular times on
any day;

22.4.d

being with particular persons;

22.4.e

participating in particular activities;

22.4.f

having particular articles with them;

22.4.g

using the internet to facilitate or encourage persons to—

22.4.g.i

commit a protest-related offence or a protest-related breach of an injunction,
or

22.4.g.ii

carry out activities related to a protest that result in, or are likely to
result in, serious disruption to two or more individuals, or to an
organisation, in England and Wales.

22.5

References in this section to a particular place or area or particular
persons, activities or articles include a place, area, persons, activities or
articles of a particular description.

22.6

A serious disruption prevention order which imposes prohibitions on a person
may include exceptions from those prohibitions.

22.7

Nothing in this section affects the generality of sections  20 (6)  and  21
(5) .

22.8

The requirements or prohibitions which are imposed on a person by a serious
disruption prevention order must, so far as practicable, be such as to avoid—

22.8.a

any conflict with the person’s religious beliefs, and

22.8.b

any interference with the times, if any, at which the person normally works or
attends any educational establishment.

##### Requirements in serious disruption prevention order

23

23.1

A serious disruption prevention order which imposes on a person (“ P ”) a
requirement, other than a notification requirement under section  24 , must
specify a person who is to be responsible for supervising compliance with the
requirement.

23.2

That person may be an individual or an organisation.

23.3

Before including such a requirement, the court must receive evidence about its
suitability and enforceability from—

23.3.a

the individual to be specified under subsection  (1) , if an individual is to
be specified;

23.3.b

an individual representing the organisation to be specified under subsection
(1) , if an organisation is to be specified.

23.4

Before including two or more such requirements, the court must consider their
compatibility with each other.

23.5

It is the duty of a person specified under subsection  (1) —

23.5.a

to make any necessary arrangements in connection with the requirements for
which the person has responsibility (the “relevant requirements”);

23.5.b

to promote P’s compliance with the relevant requirements;

23.5.c

if the person considers that P—

23.5.c.i

has complied with all of the relevant requirements, or

23.5.c.ii

has failed to comply with a relevant requirement,

to inform the appropriate chief officer of police.

23.6

In subsection  (5) (c)  “ the appropriate chief officer of police ” means—

23.6.a

the chief officer of police for the police area in which it appears to the
person specified under subsection  (1)  that P lives, or

23.6.b

if it appears to that person that P lives in more than one police area,
whichever of the chief officers of police of those areas the person thinks it
is most appropriate to inform.

23.7

Where P is subject to a requirement in a serious disruption prevention order,
other than a notification requirement under section  24 , P must—

23.7.a

keep in touch with the person specified under subsection  (1)  in relation to
that requirement, in accordance with any instructions given by that person
from time to time, and

23.7.b

notify that person of any change of P’s home address.

23.8

The obligations mentioned in subsection  (7)  have effect as if they were
requirements imposed on P by the order.

##### Notification requirements in serious disruption prevention order

24

24.1

A serious disruption prevention order made in respect of a person (“ P ”) must
impose on P the notification requirements in subsections  (2)  and  (4) .

24.2

P must be required to notify the information in subsection  (3)  to the police
within the period of 3 days beginning with the day on which the order takes
effect.

24.3

That information is—

24.3.a

P’s name on the day that the notification is given and, where P uses one or
more other names on that day, each of those names,

24.3.b

P’s home address on that day, and

24.3.c

the address of any other premises at which, on that day, P regularly resides
or stays.

24.4

P must be required to notify the information in subsection  (5)  to the police
within the period of 3 days beginning with the day on which P—

24.4.a

uses a name which has not been previously notified to the police in accordance
with the order,

24.4.b

changes their home address, or

24.4.c

decides to live for a period of one month or more at any premises the address
of which has not been previously notified to the police in accordance with the
order.

24.5

That information is—

24.5.a

in a case within subsection  (4) (a) , the name which has not previously been
notified,

24.5.b

in a case within subsection  (4) (b) , the new home address, and

24.5.c

in a case within subsection  (4) (c) , the address of the premises at which P
has decided to live.

24.6

A serious disruption prevention order must provide that P gives a notification
of the kind mentioned in subsection  (2)  or  (4)  by—

24.6.a

attending at a police station in a police area in which P lives, and

24.6.b

giving an oral notification to a police officer, or to any person authorised
for the purpose by the officer in charge of the station.

##### Duration of serious disruption prevention order

25

25.1

A serious disruption prevention order takes effect on the day it is made,
subject to subsections  (3)  and  (4) .

25.2

A serious disruption prevention order must specify the period for which it has
effect, which must be a fixed period of not less than 1 week and not more than
2 years.

25.3

Subsection  (4)  applies in relation to a serious disruption prevention order
made in respect of a person (“ P ”) if—

25.3.a

P has been remanded in or committed to custody by an order of a court,

25.3.b

a custodial sentence has been imposed on P or P is serving or otherwise
subject to such a sentence, or

25.3.c

P is on licence for part of the term of a custodial sentence.

25.4

The order may provide that it does not take effect until—

25.4.a

P is released from custody,

25.4.b

P ceases to be subject to a custodial sentence, or

25.4.c

P ceases to be on licence.

25.5

A serious disruption prevention order may specify periods for which particular
requirements or prohibitions have effect.

25.6

Where a court makes a serious disruption prevention order in respect of a
person and the person is already subject to such an order, the earlier order
ceases to have effect.

25.7

In this section “custodial sentence”—

25.7.a

has the same meaning as in the Sentencing Code, and

25.7.b

includes a “pre-Code custodial sentence” within the meaning of the Sentencing
Code (see section 222 of the Code).

##### Other information to be included in serious disruption prevention order

26

A serious disruption prevention order made in respect of a person must
specify—

26.a

the reasons for making the order, and

26.b

the penalties which may be imposed on the person for breaching the order.

#### Offences

##### Offences relating to a serious disruption prevention order

27

27.1

Where a serious disruption prevention order has effect in respect of a person
(“ P ”), P commits an offence if P—

27.1.a

fails without reasonable excuse to do anything P is required to do by the
order,

27.1.b

without reasonable excuse does anything P is prohibited from doing by the
order, or

27.1.c

notifies to the police, in purported compliance with the order, any
information which P knows to be false.

27.2

A person who commits an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the maximum term for
summary offences, to a fine or to both.

27.3

In subsection  (2)  “ the maximum term for summary offences ” means—

27.3.a

if the offence is committed before the time when section 281(5) of the
Criminal Justice Act 2003 (alteration of penalties for certain summary
offences: England and Wales) comes into force, six months;

27.3.b

if the offence is committed after that time, 51 weeks.

#### Variation, renewal or discharge of serious disruption prevention orders

##### Variation, renewal or discharge of serious disruption prevention order

28

28.1

Where a serious disruption prevention order has been made in respect of a
person (“ P ”), a person within subsection  (2)  may apply to the appropriate
court for an order varying, renewing or discharging the order.

28.2

Those persons are—

28.2.a

P;

28.2.b

the chief officer of police for the police area in which P lives;

28.2.c

a chief officer of police who believes that P is in, or is intending to come
to, the chief officer’s police area;

28.2.d

if the application for the order was made by a chief officer of police other
than one within paragraph  (b)  or  (c) , the chief officer by whom the
application was made;

28.2.e

the chief officer of police for a police area in which P committed an offence
on the basis of which the order was made;

28.2.f

where the order was made following an application by a constable within
subsection  (3) , that constable.

28.3

Those constables are—

28.3.a

the chief constable of the British Transport Police Force;

28.3.b

the chief constable of the Civil Nuclear Constabulary;

28.3.c

the chief constable of the Ministry of Defence Police.

28.4

An application under this section must be made—

28.4.a

where the appropriate court is a magistrates’ court, by complaint;

28.4.b

in any other case, in accordance with rules of court.

28.5

Before making a decision on an application under this section, the court must
hear—

28.5.a

the person making the application, and

28.5.b

any other person within subsection  (2)  who wishes to be heard.

28.6

Subject to subsections  (7)  to  (9) , on an application under this section
the court may make such order varying, renewing or discharging the serious
disruption prevention order as it thinks appropriate.

28.7

The court may—

28.7.a

vary a serious disruption prevention order so as to—

28.7.a.i

extend the period for which the order has effect,

28.7.a.ii

extend the period for which a requirement or prohibition imposed by the order
has effect, or

28.7.a.iii

impose an additional prohibition or requirement on P, or

28.7.b

renew a serious disruption prevention order,

only if it considers that to do so is necessary for a purpose mentioned in
subsection  (8) .

28.8

The purposes are—

28.8.a

to prevent P from committing a protest-related offence or a protest-related
breach of an injunction,

28.8.b

to prevent P from carrying out activities related to a protest that result in,
or are likely to result in, serious disruption to two or more individuals, or
to an organisation, in England and Wales,

28.8.c

to prevent P from causing or contributing to—

28.8.c.i

the commission by any other person of a protest-related offence or a protest-
related breach of an injunction, or

28.8.c.ii

the carrying out by any other person of activities related to a protest that
result in, or are likely to result in, serious disruption to two or more
individuals, or to an organisation, in England and Wales, or

28.8.d

to protect two or more individuals, or an organisation, in England and Wales
from the risk of serious disruption arising from—

28.8.d.i

a protest-related offence,

28.8.d.ii

a protest-related breach of an injunction, or

28.8.d.iii

activities related to a protest.

28.9

The court may not renew a serious disruption prevention order more than once.

28.10

Sections  22  to  26  (other than section  24 (2)  and  (3) ) have effect in
relation to—

28.10.a

the variation of a serious disruption prevention order so as to—

28.10.a.i

extend the period for which the order has effect,

28.10.a.ii

extend the period for which a requirement or prohibition imposed by the order
has effect, or

28.10.a.iii

impose an additional prohibition or requirement on P, or

28.10.b

the renewal of a serious disruption prevention order,

as they have effect in relation to the making of such an order.

28.11

On making an order under this section varying or renewing a serious disruption
prevention order, the court must in ordinary language explain to P the effects
of the serious disruption prevention order (as varied or renewed).

28.12

Section 127 of the Magistrates’ Courts Act 1980 does not apply to a complaint
under this section.

28.13

In this section “ the appropriate court ” means—

28.13.a

where the Crown Court or the Court of Appeal made the order, the Crown Court;

28.13.b

where a magistrates’ court made the order and the application is made by P or
a constable within subsection  (3) —

28.13.b.i

that magistrates’ court, or

28.13.b.ii

a magistrates’ court for the area in which P lives;

28.13.c

where a magistrates’ court made the order and the application is made by a
chief officer of police—

28.13.c.i

that magistrates’ court,

28.13.c.ii

a magistrates’ court for the area in which P lives, or

28.13.c.iii

a magistrates’ court acting for a local justice area that includes any part of
the chief officer’s police area.

#### Appeals

##### Appeal against serious disruption prevention order

29

29.1

Where a serious disruption prevention order is made under section  20  (order
on conviction) in respect of a person (“ P ”), P may appeal against the making
of the order as if the order were a sentence passed on P for the offence.

29.2

Where a serious disruption prevention order is made under section  21  (order
on application) in respect of a person (“ P ”), P may appeal to the
appropriate court against the making of the order.

29.3

A person who applied under section  21  (order on application) for a serious
disruption prevention order to be imposed in respect of a person may appeal to
the appropriate court against a refusal to make the order.

29.4

Where an application is made under section  28  for an order varying, renewing
or discharging a serious disruption prevention order made in respect of a
person (“ P ”)—

29.4.a

the person who made the application may appeal to the appropriate court
against a refusal to make an order under that section;

29.4.b

P may appeal to the appropriate court against the making of an order under
that section which was made on the application of a person other than P;

29.4.c

a person within subsection  (2)  of that section (other than P) may appeal to
the appropriate court against the making of an order under that section which
was made on the application of P.

29.5

In this section “ the appropriate court ” means—

29.5.a

in relation to an appeal under subsection  (2) , the Crown Court;

29.5.b

in relation to an appeal under subsection  (3)  or  (4) —

29.5.b.i

where the application in question was made to a magistrates’ court, the Crown
Court;

29.5.b.ii

where the application in question was made to the Crown Court, the Court of
Appeal.

29.6

On an appeal under this section to the Crown Court, the court may make—

29.6.a

such orders as may be necessary to give effect to its determination of the
appeal, and

29.6.b

such incidental and consequential orders as appear to it to be appropriate.

#### General

##### Guidance

30

30.1

The Secretary of State may issue guidance to—

30.1.a

chief officers of police,

30.1.b

the chief constable of the British Transport Police Force,

30.1.c

the chief constable of the Civil Nuclear Constabulary, and

30.1.d

the chief constable of the Ministry of Defence Police,

in relation to serious disruption prevention orders.

30.2

The guidance may in particular include—

30.2.a

guidance about the exercise by chief officers of police and the chief
constables mentioned in subsection  (1)  of their functions under this Part,

30.2.b

guidance about identifying persons in respect of whom it may be appropriate
for applications for serious disruption prevention orders to be made, and

30.2.c

guidance about providing assistance to prosecutors in connection with
applications for serious disruption prevention orders.

30.3

The Secretary of State may revise any guidance issued under this section.

30.4

The Secretary of State must arrange for any guidance issued under this section
to be published.

30.5

A chief officer of police or a chief constable mentioned in subsection  (1)
must have regard to any guidance issued under this section.

##### Guidance: Parliamentary procedure

31

31.1

Before issuing guidance under section  30 , the Secretary of State must lay a
draft of the guidance before Parliament.

31.2

If, within the 40-day period, either House of Parliament resolves not to
approve the draft guidance, the guidance may not be issued.

31.3

If no such resolution is made within that period, the Secretary of State may
issue the guidance.

31.4

In this section “ the 40-day period ”, in relation to draft guidance, means
the period of 40 days beginning with the day on which the draft is laid before
Parliament (or, if it is not laid before each House on the same day, the later
of the days on which it is laid).

31.5

In calculating the 40-day period, no account is to be taken of any period
during which—

31.5.a

Parliament is dissolved or prorogued, or

31.5.b

both Houses are adjourned for more than 4 days.

##### Interpretation of Part

32

In this Part—

      “ home address ”, in relation to a person (“ P ”), means—         the
address of P’s sole or main residence, or           if P has no such
residence, the address or location of a place where P can regularly be found
and, if there is more than one such place, such one of those places as P may
select;                 “ injunction ” means an injunction granted by the High
Court, the county court or a youth court;           “ protest-related breach
”, in relation to an injunction, means a breach which is directly related to a
protest;           “ protest-related offence ” means an offence which is
directly related to a protest.

##### Consequential amendments

33

33.1

In section 3(2) of the Prosecution of Offences Act 1985 (functions of the
Director of Public Prosecutions), before paragraph (g) insert—

33.1.fi

to have the conduct of applications for orders under section  20 (1) (b)  of
the Public Order Act 2023 (serious disruption prevention orders on
conviction);

.

33.2

In section 379(1) of the Sentencing Code (other behaviour orders etc), after
the entry for the Elections Act 2022 insert—

    Public Order Act 2023 section 20 serious disruption prevention order
protest-related offence within the meaning of Part  2  of that Act.

### General

#### Meaning of serious disruption

34

34.1

For the purposes of this Act, the cases in which individuals or an
organisation may suffer serious disruption include, in particular, where the
individuals or the organisation—

34.1.a

are by way of physical obstruction prevented, or hindered to more than a minor
degree, from carrying out—

34.1.a.i

their day-to-day activities (including in particular the making of a journey),

34.1.a.ii

construction or maintenance works, or

34.1.a.iii

activities related to such works,

34.1.b

are prevented from making or receiving, or suffer a delay that is more than
minor to the making or receiving of, a delivery of a time-sensitive product,
or

34.1.c

are prevented from accessing, or suffer a disruption that is more than minor
to the accessing of, any essential goods or any essential service.

34.2

In this section—

34.2.a

“ time-sensitive product ” means a product whose value or use to its consumers
may be significantly reduced by a delay in the supply of the product to them;

34.2.b

a reference to accessing essential goods or essential services includes in
particular a reference to accessing—

34.2.b.i

the supply of money, food, water, energy or fuel,

34.2.b.ii

a system of communication,

34.2.b.iii

a place of worship,

34.2.b.iv

a transport facility,

34.2.b.v

an educational institution, or

34.2.b.vi

a service relating to health.

#### Extent, commencement and short title

35

35.1

This Act extends to England and Wales only, subject to subsection  (2) .

35.2

An amendment made by this Act has the same extent as the provision amended.

35.3

The following provisions come into force on the day on which this Act is
passed—

35.3.a

sections 7  and  13 , but only for the purposes of making regulations;

35.3.b

this section .

35.4

Section 16  comes into force at the end of the period of two months beginning
with the day on which this Act is passed.

35.5

Except as provided by  subsections (3)  and  (4)  this Act comes into force on
such day as the Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory
instrument appoint.

35.6

Different days may be appointed for different purposes or areas.

35.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument make
transitional, transitory or saving provision in connection with the coming
into force of any provision of this Act.

35.8

The power to make regulations under subsection  (7)  includes power to make
different provision for different purposes or areas.

35.9

This Act may be cited as the Public Order Act 2023.

  Injunctions in Secretary of State proceedings: powers to remand

Section 19

##### Introductory

1

1.1

This Schedule  applies where the court has power to remand a person under
subsection  (6)  of  section 19  (injunctions in Secretary of State
proceedings: power of arrest and remand).

1.2

In  this Schedule  “ the court ” has the same meaning as in that section.

##### Remand in custody or on bail

2

2.1

The court may—

2.1.a

remand the person in custody, that is, commit the person to custody to be
brought before the court at the end of the period of remand or at such earlier
time as the court may require, or

2.1.b

remand the person on bail, in accordance with the following provisions.

2.2

The court may remand the person on bail—

2.2.a

by taking from the person a recognizance, with or without sureties,
conditioned as provided in paragraph  3 , or

2.2.b

by fixing the amount of the recognizances with a view to their being taken
subsequently, and in the meantime committing the person to custody as
mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1) (a) .

2.3

Where a person is brought before the court after remand, the court may further
remand the person.

3

3.1

Where a person is remanded on bail, the court may direct that the person’s
recognizance be conditioned for the person’s appearance—

3.1.a

before that court at the end of the period of remand, or

3.1.b

at every time and place to which during the course of the proceedings the
hearing may from time to time be adjourned.

3.2

Where a recognizance is conditioned for a person's appearance as mentioned in
sub-paragraph  (1) (b) , the fixing of any time for the person next to appear
is deemed to be a remand.

3.3

Nothing in  this paragraph  affects the power of the court at any subsequent
hearing to remand the person afresh.

4

4.1

The court must not remand a person for a period exceeding eight clear days
except that—

4.1.a

if the court remands the person on bail, it may remand the person for a longer
period if the person and the other party consent, and

4.1.b

if the court adjourns a case under  section 19 (9)  (remand for medical
examination and report) the court may remand the person for the period of
adjournment.

4.2

Where the court has the power to remand a person in custody it may, if the
remand is for a period not exceeding three clear days, commit the person to
the custody of a constable.

##### Further remand

5

5.1

If the court is satisfied that a person who has been remanded is unable by
reason of illness or accident to appear or be brought before the court at the
expiration of the period for which the person was remanded, the court may, in
the person’s absence, remand the person for a further time.

5.2

The power mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1)  may, in the case of a person who
was remanded on bail, be exercised by enlarging the person’s recognizance and
those of any sureties for the person to a later time.

5.3

Where a person remanded on bail is bound to appear before the court at any
time and the court has no power to remand the person under sub-paragraph  (1)
, the court may in the person’s absence enlarge the person’s recognizance and
those of any sureties for the person to a later time.

5.4

The enlargement of the person’s recognizance is to be deemed to be a further
remand.

5.5

Paragraph  4 (1)  (limit of remand) does not apply to the exercise of the
powers conferred by  this paragraph .

##### Postponement and taking recognizance

6

Where under paragraph  2 (2) (b)  the court fixes the amount in which the
principal and their sureties, if any, are to be bound, the recognizance may
afterwards be taken by such person as may be prescribed by rules of court,
with the same consequences as if it had been entered into before the court.

##### Requirements imposed on remand on bail

7

The court may when remanding a person on bail under  this Schedule  require
the person to comply, before release on bail or later, with such requirements
as appear to the court to be necessary to secure that the person does not
interfere with witnesses or otherwise obstruct the course of justice.

