Title: Social Housing (Regulation) Act 2023
Date: 2024-06-04
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/36

## Social Housing (Regulation) Act 2023

                                                   B e it enacted  by the
King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords
Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and
by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### The Regulator of Social Housing

#### Fundamental objectives

1

In section 92K of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 (fundamental
objectives), in subsection (3)—

1.a

in paragraph (a), after “well-managed” insert  “, safe, energy efficient” ;

1.b

in paragraph (c), omit the final “and”;

1.c

after paragraph (c) insert—

1.c.ca

to ensure that registered providers act in a transparent manner in relation to
their tenants of social housing, and

.

#### Advisory panel

2

After section 96 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 insert—

######## Advisory panel

2.96A

2.96A.1

The regulator must establish a panel of persons called “the Advisory Panel”.

2.96A.2

The Panel may provide information and advice to the regulator about, or on
matters connected with, the regulator’s functions (whether or not it is
requested to do so by the regulator).

2.96A.3

The reference in subsection (2) to matters connected with the regulator’s
functions includes anything which could have a significant impact on
registered providers or the provision of social housing.

2.96A.4

The regulator must appoint the following persons to the Panel—

2.96A.4.a

persons appearing to the regulator to represent the interests of—

2.96A.4.a.i

registered providers;

2.96A.4.a.ii

secured creditors of registered providers;

2.96A.4.a.iii

tenants of social housing;

2.96A.4.a.iv

local housing authorities,

2.96A.4.b

the Greater London Authority,

2.96A.4.c

the HCA, and

2.96A.4.d

the Secretary of State.

2.96A.5

The regulator may appoint such other persons to the Panel as it thinks fit to
appoint.

2.96A.6

The regulator may make payments to persons who are members of the Panel in
respect of any expenses they incur in connection with their appointment to the
Panel.

2.96A.7

The regulator must make arrangements requiring any person who is a member of
the Panel to declare any financial or other personal interest relevant to the
regulator’s functions.

#### Collection of information

3

3.1

The Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 is amended as follows.

3.2

In section 107 (collection)—

3.2.a

for subsection (1) substitute—

3.2.a.1

The regulator, or a person authorised under subsection (4A), may for a purpose
connected with the regulator’s functions require a person to provide documents
or information which the regulator or person authorised (as the case may be)
has reason to believe is or may be in the person’s possession.

;

3.2.b

omit subsection (2);

3.2.c

before subsection (3), insert—

3.2.c.2A

A requirement under subsection (1) may also require the person to provide an
explanation of any document or information required under that subsection.

;

3.2.d

in subsection (3)—

3.2.d.i

in the opening words, after “requirement” insert  “under subsection (1)” ;

3.2.d.ii

in paragraph (a), for “document or information” substitute  “document,
information or an explanation” ;

3.2.e

in subsection (4), for “documents or information” substitute  “documents,
information or explanations” ;

3.2.f

after subsection (4) insert—

3.2.f.4A

The regulator may in writing authorise a person to exercise any of its powers
under this section.

3.2.f.4B

An authorisation—

3.2.f.4B.a

must specify the extent to which the person is authorised to exercise the
powers, and

3.2.f.4B.b

may provide that the person is to be authorised for a particular period.

;

3.2.g

in subsection (5), after “requirement” insert  “under subsection (1)” ;

3.2.h

in subsection (6), for “to which a requirement relates” substitute  “required
under subsection (1)” ;

3.2.i

after subsection (6) insert—

3.2.i.6A

Knowingly or recklessly providing the regulator, or a person authorised under
subsection (4A), with a document, information or an explanation which is false
or misleading in purported compliance with a requirement under subsection (1)
is an offence.

;

3.2.j

in subsection (7), after “requirement” insert  “under subsection (1)” .

3.3

In section 108 (section 107: supplemental)—

3.3.a

in subsection (1), after “requirement” insert  “under section 107(1)” ;

3.3.b

for subsection (2) substitute—

3.3.b.2

A requirement under section 107(1) does not require a banker to breach a duty
of confidentiality owed to a person who is not—

3.3.b.2.a

a registered provider,

3.3.b.2.b

a subsidiary of a registered provider,

3.3.b.2.c

an associate of a registered provider, or

3.3.b.2.d

a person who is certified in writing by the regulator as being—

3.3.b.2.d.i

a person who has applied to be entered in the register of providers of social
housing, or

3.3.b.2.d.ii

a local authority which the regulator thinks may be, or may become, a provider
of social housing.

;

3.3.c

in subsection (3), omit the words from “not” to the end;

3.3.d

in subsection (4)—

3.3.d.i

in the words before paragraph (a), after “107(6)” insert  “or (6A)” ;

3.3.d.ii

in paragraph (a) omit the words from “not” to the end;

3.3.e

in subsection (5), for “or (6)” substitute  “, (6) or (6A)” .

#### Power to charge fees

4

4.1

Section 117 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 (fees) is amended as set
out in subsections  (2)  to  (6) .

4.2

In subsection (1)(a), after “fee” insert  “for dealing with an application” .

4.3

After subsection (1) insert—

4.3.1A

The regulator may make dealing with an application for initial registration
conditional upon the payment of the fee.

4.4

In subsection (2) omit “initial or”.

4.5

After subsection (4) insert—

4.5.4A

The amount of a fee payable under this section may be calculated by reference
to costs incurred, or likely to be incurred, by the regulator in the
performance of any of its functions, including costs unconnected with the fee-
payer and costs unconnected with registration or regulation under this Part.

4.6

In subsection (5)—

4.6.a

in paragraph (a), for “expenditure on” substitute  “the costs incurred in” ;

4.6.b

omit paragraph (b) (but not the “and” following it);

4.6.c

in paragraph (c), for “to which it relates” substitute  “incurred, or likely
to be incurred, in the performance of the regulator’s functions” .

4.7

In section 202 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 (inspections:
supplemental) omit subsections (4) to (7).

#### Relationship between regulator and housing ombudsman

5

5.1

The Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 is amended as set out in subsections (2)
to (5).

5.2

After section 100G insert—

########## Relationship with housing ombudsman

########### Relationship with housing ombudsman

5.2.100H

5.2.100H.1

The regulator and a housing ombudsman must each take such steps as it
considers appropriate to co-operate in the exercise of their respective
functions.

5.2.100H.2

The regulator and a housing ombudsman must prepare and maintain a memorandum
describing how they intend to comply with subsection (1).

5.2.100H.3

The regulator and a housing ombudsman must ensure that the memorandum between
them as currently in force is published in the way appearing to them to be
best calculated to bring it to the attention of the public.

5.3

In section 196 (consultation), in subsection (1), after paragraph (ea) insert—

5.3.eb

any housing ombudsman,

.

5.4

In section 197 (direction by Secretary of State), in subsection (4), after
paragraph (aa) insert—

5.4.ab

any housing ombudsman,

.

5.5

In section 275 (general interpretation), after the entry relating to the HCA
insert—

                                    “ housing ombudsman ” means a housing
ombudsman appointed in accordance with a scheme approved under Schedule 2 to
the Housing Act 1996,

.

5.6

In Schedule 2 to the Housing Act 1996 (social rented sector: housing
complaints), in paragraph 3 (approval of scheme etc), in sub-paragraph (1),
for the words from “shall be made” to the end substitute—

5.6.a

may only be made after the applicant has consulted the Regulator of Social
Housing,

5.6.b

shall be made in such manner as the Secretary of State may determine, and

5.6.c

shall be accompanied by such information as the Secretary of State may
require.

### Registration of providers of social housing

#### Meaning of “English body”

6

In section 79 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 (English bodies), in
subsection (1)—

6.a

after paragraph (c) insert

and

6.a.f

a limited liability partnership which has its registered office in England.

;

6.b

omit paragraphs (d) and (e).

#### Registration criteria

7

In section 112 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 (eligibility for
voluntary registration), in subsection (3)—

7.a

in the opening words omit “as to”;

7.b

in paragraph (a), at the beginning insert  “as to” ;

7.c

in paragraph (b)—

7.c.i

at the beginning insert  “as to” ;

7.c.ii

omit “and”;

7.d

in paragraph (c)—

7.d.i

at the beginning insert  “as to” ;

7.d.ii

at the end insert

, and

7.d.ii.d

to secure that the body would meet, on registration, standards set by the
regulator under sections 193, 194,  194A  and  194C .

#### Designation

8

Section 115 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 (profit-making and non-
profit organisations) is amended as follows—

8.a

omit subsection (2);

8.b

for subsection (3) substitute—

8.b.3

A body is a non-profit organisation if—

8.b.3.a

it is a registered or non-registrable charity and satisfies Conditions 1 and
2, or

8.b.3.b

otherwise, it satisfies Conditions 1 to 3.

;

8.c

in subsection (4)—

8.c.i

in paragraph (a), omit “or”;

8.c.ii

omit paragraph (b);

8.d

after subsection (6) insert—

8.d.6A

The fact that a body is prohibited by its constitution from trading for profit
does not, of itself, mean that it is a body which does not trade for profit
for the purposes of subsection (4)(a).

;

8.e

in subsection (8) omit “(2) or”.

#### De-registration

9

In section 118 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 (compulsory de-
registration), in subsection (1), after paragraph (a) insert—

9.aa

has failed to meet a standard under section 193, 194 or  194C ,

.

### Duties of registered providers

#### Appointment of health and safety lead by registered provider

10

10.1

The Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 is amended as follows.

10.2

Before section 127 (and the heading immediately before it) insert—

########## Health and safety lead for registered provider

########### Designation of health and safety lead

10.2.126A

10.2.126A.1

A registered provider must designate an individual to carry out the functions
in section 126B.

10.2.126A.2

The individual designated under subsection  (1)  is referred to in this Part
as the “ health and safety lead ” for the registered provider.

10.2.126A.3

The health and safety lead must be—

10.2.126A.3.a

in the case of a private registered provider—

10.2.126A.3.a.i

if the provider has at least 15 employees, an employee of the provider;

10.2.126A.3.a.ii

otherwise, an employee or officer of the provider;

10.2.126A.3.b

in the case of a local authority which operates executive arrangements and has
a leader and cabinet executive (England)—

10.2.126A.3.b.i

the executive leader,

10.2.126A.3.b.ii

another member of the executive, or

10.2.126A.3.b.iii

an employee of the authority;

10.2.126A.3.c

in the case of a local authority which operates executive arrangements and has
a mayor and cabinet executive—

10.2.126A.3.c.i

a member of the executive other than the elected mayor, or

10.2.126A.3.c.ii

an employee of the authority;

10.2.126A.3.d

in the case of the Common Council of the City of London, an employee of the
Common Council;

10.2.126A.3.e

in the case of any other local authority—

10.2.126A.3.e.i

the chairman or vice-chairman of the authority (if holding a paid office), or

10.2.126A.3.e.ii

an employee of the authority.

10.2.126A.4

In this section and section  126B , the following terms have the same meanings
as in Part 1A of the Local Government Act 2000 (and see the provisions of that
Act mentioned)—

                                                      “ elected mayor ”
(section 9H(1));
“ executive ” (section 9C);
“ executive arrangements ” (section 9B(4));
“ executive leader ” (section 9C(3)(a));
“ leader and cabinet executive (England) ” (section 9C(3));
“ mayor and cabinet executive ” (section 9C(2)).

10.2.126A.5

For the purposes of subsection  (3) (e) (i) —

10.2.126A.5.a

the references to the chairman and vice-chairman of an authority are to those
persons elected under section 3 or 5 of the Local Government Act 1972 (or in
relation to a London borough council are to be read in accordance with section
270(4) of that Act);

10.2.126A.5.b

a chairman or vice-chairman holds a “paid office” if the council pays the
person an allowance.

10.2.126A.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this section to alter who may
be the health and safety lead for a registered provider.

########### Functions of the health and safety lead

10.2.126B

10.2.126B.1

The functions of the health and safety lead for a registered provider are to—

10.2.126B.1.a

monitor the provider’s compliance with health and safety requirements;

10.2.126B.1.b

assess risks of failure to comply with health and safety requirements;

10.2.126B.1.c

notify the responsible body of the provider of—

10.2.126B.1.c.i

risks assessed under paragraph  (b)  of material failures by the provider to
comply with health and safety requirements;

10.2.126B.1.c.ii

material failures by the provider to comply with health and safety
requirements;

10.2.126B.1.d

provide advice to the responsible body as to how the provider should address
risks and failures notified to the responsible body under paragraph  (c)  for
the purpose of ensuring that the provider complies with health and safety
requirements.

10.2.126B.2

In this Part, “ health and safety requirement ”, in relation to a registered
provider, means a statutory requirement, so far as it—

10.2.126B.2.a

relates to the health or safety of tenants of social housing, and

10.2.126B.2.b

applies to the provider by virtue of being the provider of that social housing
(including where it is expressed as applying to a landlord or employer or in
some other way).

10.2.126B.3

In this section, “ statutory requirement ” means a requirement imposed by or
by virtue of legislation and includes—

10.2.126B.3.a

an obligation under a covenant implied by or under legislation (such as a
covenant under section 9A of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 (fitness for
human habitation of dwellings in England));

10.2.126B.3.b

a requirement imposed—

10.2.126B.3.b.i

by a notice given under legislation, or

10.2.126B.3.b.ii

by or as a result of other action (such as enforcement action mentioned in
section 5(2) or 7(2) of the Housing Act 2004 (housing conditions: category 1
and 2 hazards)) taken under legislation.

10.2.126B.4

In subsection  (3) , “ legislation ” means any provision of or made under—

10.2.126B.4.a

an Act of Parliament, or

10.2.126B.4.b

a Measure or Act of Senedd Cymru.

10.2.126B.5

For the purposes of this section, the “responsible body” of a registered
provider—

10.2.126B.5.a

in the case of a local authority which operates executive arrangements, is the
executive;

10.2.126B.5.b

in the case of any other local authority, is the councillors;

10.2.126B.5.c

in the case of a private registered provider, has the meaning given by the
following table—

                                           Private registered provider Meaning
of “responsible body”
Registered charity which is not a registered company Its charity trustees
within the meaning given by section 177 of the Charities Act 2011 Registered
society Its committee within the meaning given by section 149 of the Co-
operative and Community Benefit Societies Act 2014 Registered company Its
directors within the meaning given by section 250 of the Companies Act 2006
Limited liability partnership Its members

(See section  126A (4)  for the meanings of terms used in paragraph  (a) .)

########### Duties of registered provider in relation to health and safety lead

10.2.126C

10.2.126C.1

A registered provider must—

10.2.126C.1.a

ensure that the health and safety lead—

10.2.126C.1.a.i

has sufficient authority (including, in particular, authority to obtain
information) within the provider’s organisation, and

10.2.126C.1.a.ii

can devote sufficient time to the functions of the health and safety lead,

to perform the role of health and safety lead effectively;

10.2.126C.1.b

provide the health and safety lead with the resources needed to carry out
those functions.

10.2.126C.2

A registered provider must, in accordance with requirements published by the
regulator—

10.2.126C.2.a

notify the regulator of the name and contact details of the health and safety
lead, and

10.2.126C.2.b

publish that information.

########### Health and safety lead: general

10.2.126D

10.2.126D.1

Nothing in sections  126A  to  126C  affects—

10.2.126D.1.a

the responsibility of a registered provider for compliance with health and
safety requirements, or

10.2.126D.1.b

the liability of the registered provider or of any director, member or other
officer or person for a failure to comply with health and safety requirements.

10.2.126D.2

The health and safety lead is not, by virtue of those sections—

10.2.126D.2.a

responsible for the registered provider’s compliance with health and safety
requirements, or

10.2.126D.2.b

liable for a failure by the registered provider to comply with health and
safety requirements,

(but this does not affect any responsibility or liability which the individual
designated under section  126A  has otherwise than as health and safety lead).

10.2.126D.3

A registered provider may nominate an individual to carry out the functions of
the health and safety lead if the health and safety lead is unable to act due
to absence or illness.

10.3

In section 220 (grounds for giving enforcement notice), at the appropriate
place insert—

10.3.11B

Case 12 is where—

10.3.11B.a

the registered provider—

10.3.11B.a.i

does not have a health and safety lead designated under section  126A , or

10.3.11B.a.ii

has failed to meet a requirement under section  126C , or

10.3.11B.b

the functions of the health and safety lead are not being carried out.

10.4

In section 227 (grounds for imposition of penalty), at the appropriate place
insert—

10.4.7B

Case 8 is where—

10.4.7B.a

the registered provider—

10.4.7B.a.i

does not have a health and safety lead designated under section  126A , or

10.4.7B.a.ii

has failed to meet a requirement under section  126C , or

10.4.7B.b

the functions of the health and safety lead are not being carried out.

10.5

In section 247(1) (management tender), before paragraph (b) insert—

10.5.ab

a registered provider—

10.5.ab.i

does not have a health and safety lead designated under section  126A , or

10.5.ab.ii

has failed to meet a requirement under section  126C (1) ,

10.5.ac

the functions of the health and safety lead are not being carried out,

.

10.6

In section 251(1) (appointment of manager of private registered provider),
before paragraph (b) insert—

10.6.ab

a private registered provider—

10.6.ab.i

does not have a health and safety lead designated under section  126A , or

10.6.ab.ii

has failed to meet a requirement under section  126C (1) ,

10.6.ac

the functions of the health and safety lead are not being carried out,

.

10.7

In section 252A(2) (appointment of advisers to local authorities)—

10.7.a

in paragraph (a), omit the final “or”;

10.7.b

after paragraph (b) insert—

10.7.b.c

that the authority—

10.7.b.c.i

does not have a health and safety lead designated under section  126A , or

10.7.b.c.ii

has failed to meet a requirement under section  126C (1) ,

10.7.b.d

that the functions of the health and safety lead are not being carried out

.

10.8

In section 320 (orders and regulations), in subsection (3)(d), for “or 72”
substitute  “, 72 or  126A ” .

#### Electrical safety standards

11

11.1

Section 122 of the Housing and Planning Act 2016 (electrical safety standards
for properties let by private landlords) is amended as follows.

11.2

In the heading, for “properties let by private landlords” substitute
“residential properties let by landlords” .

11.3

In subsection (1)—

11.3.a

omit “private”;

11.3.b

after “England” insert  “to whom this section applies” .

11.4

After subsection (1) insert—

11.4.1A

This section applies to a landlord who is—

11.4.1A.a

a private landlord, or

11.4.1A.b

a registered provider of social housing.

### Registered providers: insolvency, restructuring etc

#### Moratorium on disposal of land

12

12.1

The Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 is amended as follows.

12.2

For section 145 substitute—

########## Moratorium

12.2.145

12.2.145.1

A moratorium on the disposal of land by a private registered provider begins
when any of the events mentioned in subsection  (2)  occur in relation to the
provider.

12.2.145.2

The events are—

12.2.145.2.a

a petition is presented under section 124 of the Insolvency Act 1986, by a
person other than the Secretary of State, for the winding up of the provider;

12.2.145.2.b

an application is made by the provider under section 105(3) of the Housing and
Planning Act 2016 for permission to pass a resolution for voluntary winding
up;

12.2.145.2.c

an application is made in accordance with paragraph 12 of Schedule B1 to the
Insolvency Act 1986, by a person other than the Secretary of State, for an
administration order in respect of the provider;

12.2.145.2.d

a notice of the appointment of an administrator of the provider under
paragraph 14 or 22 of Schedule B1 to the Insolvency Act 1986 is filed with the
court under paragraph 18 or 29 of that Schedule;

12.2.145.2.e

notice of intention to enforce a security over property of the provider is
given under section 108(2)(a) of the Housing and Planning Act 2016 or the
requirement to give such notice is waived under section 108(2)(b) of that Act.

12.3

In section 146 (duration of moratorium)—

12.3.a

in the heading, for “Duration” substitute  “Ending” ;

12.3.b

omit subsection (1);

12.3.c

in subsection (2), in the words before paragraph (a), after “moratorium”
insert  “mentioned in section 145” ;

12.3.d

in subsection (2A), in paragraph (a), for “day on which the notice mentioned
in section 145 is given” substitute  “relevant day” ;

12.3.e

after subsection (2A) insert—

12.3.e.2B

The “relevant day” is—

12.3.e.2B.a

in the case of an event mentioned in section  145 (2) (a) , the day on which
notice under section 104(2)(a) of the Housing and Planning Act 2016 is given
or on which the requirement to give such notice is waived under section
104(2)(b) of that Act;

12.3.e.2B.b

in the case of an event mentioned in section  145 (2) (b) , the day on which
notice under section 105(4)(a) of the Housing and Planning Act 2016 is given
or on which the requirement to give such notice is waived under section
105(4)(b) of that Act;

12.3.e.2B.c

in the case of an event mentioned in section  145 (2) (c) , the day on which
notice under section 106(3)(a)(i) of the Housing and Planning Act 2016 is
given or on which the requirement to give such notice is waived under section
106(3)(a)(ii) of that Act;

12.3.e.2B.d

in the case of an event mentioned in section  145 (2) (d) , the day on which
notice under section 107(4)(a)(i) of the Housing and Planning Act 2016 is
given or on which the requirement to give such notice is waived under section
107(4)(a)(ii) of that Act;

12.3.e.2B.e

in the case of an event mentioned in section  145 (2) (e) , the day of that
event.

;

12.3.f

in subsection (3), for the words from “period,” to the end substitute

period if—

12.3.f.a

the regulator has made reasonable enquiries with a view to locating secured
creditors of the registered provider, and

12.3.f.b

where the regulator located one or more such creditors, each of them has
consented to the extension.

;

12.3.g

in subsection (5), omit the words from “if” to the end;

12.3.h

in subsection (9), for “a notice mentioned in section 145 is given” substitute
“an event mentioned in section 145(2) occurs” .

12.4

In section 147 (further moratorium), in subsection (3), for the words from
“period,” to the end substitute

period if—

12.4.a

the regulator has made reasonable enquiries with a view to locating secured
creditors of the registered provider, and

12.4.b

where the regulator located one or more such creditors, each of them has
consented to the further moratorium.

12.5

In section 151 (appointment of interim manager during moratorium), in
subsection (4), for paragraph (b) (but not the “or” following it) substitute—

12.5.b

when the regulator notifies the interim manager that there are proposals under
section 152 which are agreed proposals,

.

12.6

In section 153 (procedure for proposals made during moratorium)—

12.6.a

in subsection (1), after paragraph (b) insert—

12.6.a.ba

if the regulator is able to locate any secured creditors of the registered
provider after making reasonable enquiries, those creditors,

;

12.6.b

after subsection (1) insert—

12.6.b.1A

If no secured creditors are located for the purposes of subsection (1), the
proposals made by the regulator following the consultation required by that
subsection are agreed proposals for the purposes of this group of sections.

;

12.6.c

in subsection (2)—

12.6.c.i

for the words before paragraph (a) substitute  “Where the regulator locates
one or more secured creditors of the registered provider for the purposes of
subsection (1), the regulator must, before making proposals, send a copy of
draft proposals to—” ;

12.6.c.ii

for paragraph (b) (but not the “and” following it) substitute—

12.6.c.ii.b

the secured creditors located for the purposes of subsection (1),

;

12.6.d

in subsection (3), in the words before paragraph (a), for the words from “The
regulator” to “bringing” substitute  “If the regulator sends draft proposals
under subsection (2), the regulator must also make arrangements for bringing
those” ;

12.6.e

for subsection (4) substitute—

12.6.e.4

If each secured creditor to whom draft proposals were required to be sent
agrees to them by notice to the regulator, the draft proposals become agreed
proposals for the purposes of this group of sections.

;

12.6.f

in subsection (5)—

12.6.f.i

in the words before paragraph (a) for “Proposals” substitute  “Draft
proposals” ;

12.6.f.ii

in paragraph (a), for “proposals were sent” substitute  “draft proposals were
required to be sent” ;

12.6.g

in subsection (6)(b)—

12.6.g.i

for “its” substitute  “any” ;

12.6.g.ii

for “the original” substitute  “draft” ;

12.6.h

for subsection (8) substitute—

12.6.h.8

The regulator may make proposals amending agreed proposals; and this section
and section 152 apply to such proposals.

12.7

In section 158 (assistance by regulator in connection with proposals), in
subsection (1), for “the agreement of proposals” substitute  “the regulator
deciding whether to exercise the power under section 152 to make proposals and
(if proposals are made) the proposals becoming agreed proposals” .

#### Limited liability partnerships

13

Schedule  1  amends Part 2 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 and
Chapter 5 of Part 4 of the Housing and Planning Act 2016 to make provision
about limited liability partnerships.

#### Insolvency of registered providers

14

Schedule  2  contains amendments to provisions of the Housing and Planning Act
2016 about procedures to be followed on the insolvency of a registered
provider.

#### Notification requirements: expansion to profit-making organisations

15

In the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008, in the following provisions omit
“non-profit”—

15.a

section 160(1) (arrangements and reconstructions);

15.b

section 161(1) (conversion of registered company to registered society);

15.c

section 163(1) (restructuring of registered society);

15.d

section 165(1) (dissolution of registered society);

15.e

section 169A (change of rules of registered society);

15.f

section 169C (change of articles of registered company).

#### Conversion of company into registered society: continuation of registration

16

In section 161 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 (company: conversion
into registered society) omit subsections (4) to (7).

#### Restructuring of registered societies

17

17.1

The Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 is amended as follows.

17.2

In section 163 (registered society: restructuring) omit subsections (5) to
(8).

17.3

After section 163 insert—

########## Restructuring of registered societies: registration of successor bodies

17.3.163A

17.3.163A.1

This section applies where —

17.3.163A.1.a

a registered provider notifies the regulator of a resolution passed by the
provider for the purposes of section 109 of the Co-operative and Community
Benefit Societies Act 2014 (amalgamation of societies);

17.3.163A.1.b

a registered provider notifies the regulator of a resolution passed by the
provider for the purposes of section 112(1)(b) of that Act (amalgamation of
society and company);

17.3.163A.1.c

a registered provider notifies the regulator of a resolution passed by the
provider for the purposes of section 110 of that Act (transfer of engagements
between societies) and the society to which engagements are transferred is not
a registered provider;

17.3.163A.1.d

a registered provider notifies the regulator of a resolution passed by the
provider for the purposes of section 112(1)(c) of that Act (transfer of
engagements between society and company) and the company to which engagements
are transferred is not a registered provider.

17.3.163A.2

When the resolution mentioned in subsection  (1)  (“ the relevant resolution
”) takes effect, the regulator must decide whether the successor body is
eligible for registration under section 112.

17.3.163A.3

“ The successor body ” means—

17.3.163A.3.a

if the relevant resolution is a resolution described in paragraph  (a)  or
(b)  of subsection  (1) , the body created by virtue of that resolution or by
virtue of that resolution and other resolutions described in that paragraph,
and

17.3.163A.3.b

if the relevant resolution is a resolution described in paragraph  (c)  or
(d)  of subsection  (1) , the body to which engagements are transferred by
virtue of the resolution.

17.3.163A.4

If the successor body is eligible for registration, the regulator must
register it and notify it that it has done so.

17.3.163A.5

If the successor body is not eligible for registration, the regulator must
notify it of that fact.

17.3.163A.6

Pending registration, or notification that it is not eligible for
registration, the successor body is to be treated as if it were registered and
designated as a non-profit organisation.

#### Receipt of transfers of engagements from a registered society

18

18.1

The Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 is amended as follows.

18.2

After section 161 insert—

########## Company: receipt of transfer of engagements from registered society

18.2.161A

18.2.161A.1

This section applies to a registered provider which is a registered company.

18.2.161A.2

The registered provider must notify the regulator if a registered society
which is not a registered provider passes a resolution under section 112(1)(c)
of the Co-operative and Community Benefit Societies Act 2014 transferring its
engagements to the registered provider.

18.2.161A.3

The Financial Conduct Authority may register the resolution only if the
registered society which passed it has confirmed to the Financial Conduct
Authority that the regulator has been notified.

18.3

After section  163A  (inserted by section  17 ) insert—

########## Registered society: receipt of transfer of engagements from another registered society

18.3.163B

18.3.163B.1

This section applies to a registered provider which is a registered society.

18.3.163B.2

The registered provider must notify the regulator if a registered society
which is not a registered provider passes a resolution under section 110(1) of
the Co-operative and Community Benefit Societies Act 2014 transferring its
engagements to the registered provider.

18.3.163B.3

The Financial Conduct Authority may register the resolution only if the
registered society which passed it has confirmed to the Financial Conduct
Authority that the regulator has been notified.

#### Notification of constitutional changes

19

19.1

The Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 is amended as follows.

19.2

In section 169A (registered societies: change of rules)—

19.2.a

in the heading, after “rules” insert  “etc” ;

19.2.b

after “society’s rules” insert  “, name or registered office” .

19.3

For section 169B substitute—

########## Charity: change to trusts etc

19.3.169B

19.3.169B.1

The trustees of a registered charity that is a registered provider must notify
the regulator of any change to—

19.3.169B.1.a

the trusts of the charity;

19.3.169B.1.b

the purposes of the charity (if not falling within paragraph  (a) );

19.3.169B.1.c

the name of the charity entered in the register of charities;

19.3.169B.1.d

any number allocated to the charity by the Charity Commission which appears in
the register of charities;

19.3.169B.1.e

any contact address for the charity which appears in the register of
charities.

19.3.169B.2

But the duty to notify the regulator of changes to the matters mentioned in
paragraphs  (a)  to  (c)  does not apply to the trustees of a registered
charity that is a registered company.

19.3.169B.3

In this section—

   “ the register of charities ” means the register of charities kept under
section 29 of the Charities Act 2011;
“ trusts ”, in relation to a charity, has the same meaning as in the Charities
Act 2011 (see section 353 of that Act).

19.4

After section 169C insert—

########## Limited liability partnership: change of name etc

19.4.169CA

A registered provider that is a limited liability partnership must notify the
regulator of any change to its name or registered office.

#### Notification of change of control

20

20.1

The Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 is amended as follows.

20.2

Before section 169D (and the heading immediately before it) insert—

########## Notification of change of control

########### Application of rules about notification of change of control

20.2.169CB

This group of sections does not apply to local authorities.

########### Change in board members

20.2.169CC

20.2.169CC.1

A registered provider must notify the regulator if—

20.2.169CC.1.a

the board members of the registered provider change (whether as a result of an
appointment or removal of a board member or for any other reason), and

20.2.169CC.1.b

following that change, any of the circumstances described in subsection  (2)
arise.

20.2.169CC.2

The circumstances are that—

20.2.169CC.2.a

the number of board members of the provider has increased by more than 50%
since the beginning of the relevant period;

20.2.169CC.2.b

the number of board members of the provider has decreased by more than 50%
since the beginning of the relevant period;

20.2.169CC.2.c

more than 50% of the board members of the provider are persons who were not
board members of the provider at the beginning of the relevant period.

20.2.169CC.3

For the purposes of this section, the “board members” of a registered provider
are—

20.2.169CC.3.a

in the case of a registered charity which is not a registered company, its
charity trustees within the meaning given by section 177 of the Charities Act
2011;

20.2.169CC.3.b

in the case of a registered society, the members of its committee within the
meaning given by section 149 of the Co-operative and Community Benefit
Societies Act 2014;

20.2.169CC.3.c

in the case of a registered company, its directors within the meaning given by
section 250 of the Companies Act 2006;

20.2.169CC.3.d

in the case of a limited liability partnership, its members.

20.2.169CC.4

For the purposes of this section, “the relevant period” is—

20.2.169CC.4.a

the period of 12 months ending with the day on which the change mentioned in
subsection  (1) (a)  takes effect (“the 12 month period”), or

20.2.169CC.4.b

if the registered provider was not a registered provider throughout the 12
month period, the period—

20.2.169CC.4.b.i

beginning with the day (or, if more than one, the latest day) in the 12 month
period on which it became a registered provider, and

20.2.169CC.4.b.ii

ending with the day on which the change mentioned in subsection  (1) (a)
takes effect.

########### Change in subsidiary status

20.2.169CD

A registered provider must notify the regulator each time—

20.2.169CD.a

it becomes a subsidiary of a person, or

20.2.169CD.b

it ceases to be a subsidiary of a person.

### Standards

#### Standards relating to competence and conduct

21

21.1

After section 194 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 insert—

########## Standards relating to competence and conduct

21.1.194A

21.1.194A.1

The regulator may set standards for registered providers in matters relating
to the competence and conduct of individuals involved in the provision of
services in connection with the management of social housing (“relevant
individuals”).

21.1.194A.2

Standards under subsection  (1)  may, in particular, require registered
providers to comply with specified rules about—

21.1.194A.2.a

the knowledge, skills and experience to be required of relevant individuals,
and

21.1.194A.2.b

the conduct to be expected of relevant individuals in their dealings with
tenants.

21.1.194A.3

Standards under subsection  (1)  may require registered providers to secure
that their senior housing executives and senior housing managers—

21.1.194A.3.a

have a specified qualification in housing management or type of qualification
in housing management, or

21.1.194A.3.b

are working towards such a qualification or type of qualification.

21.1.194A.4

Standards under subsection  (1)  may require registered providers to take
steps to secure that relevant managers of their services providers—

21.1.194A.4.a

have a specified qualification in housing management or type of qualification
in housing management, or

21.1.194A.4.b

are working towards such a qualification or type of qualification.

21.1.194A.5

Each of the following is a “relevant manager” of a services provider—

21.1.194A.5.a

if the services provider is a relevant individual, that individual;

21.1.194A.5.b

a senior housing executive of the services provider;

21.1.194A.5.c

a senior housing manager of the services provider.

21.1.194A.6

A qualification or type of qualification specified for a senior housing
executive may only be—

21.1.194A.6.a

a foundation degree, or

21.1.194A.6.b

a qualification or type of qualification regulated by the Office of
Qualifications and Examinations Regulation which is of a level not exceeding
level 5.

21.1.194A.7

A qualification or type of qualification specified for a senior housing
manager, or for an individual described in subsection  (5) (a) , may only be a
qualification or type of qualification regulated by the Office of
Qualifications and Examinations Regulation which is of a level not exceeding
level 4.

21.1.194A.8

The references in subsections  (6)  and  (7)  to the level of a qualification
are to the level assigned to a qualification by virtue of general conditions
set and published by the Office of Qualifications and Examinations Regulation
under section 134 of the Apprenticeships, Skills, Children and Learning Act
2009.

21.1.194A.9

Except as provided by subsections  (3)  to  (8) , standards under subsection
(1)  may not require registered providers to comply with rules about the
qualifications to be required of relevant individuals.

21.1.194A.10

See also section 217A (which makes provision implying terms relating to
qualifications into management services agreements).

########## Meaning of “services provider”, “senior housing executive” and “senior housing manager”

21.1.194B

21.1.194B.1

This section makes provision about the meaning of terms for the purposes of
section 194A.

21.1.194B.2

“ Services provider ”, in relation to a registered provider, means a person
who, in accordance with an agreement with the registered provider or another
person, provides services in connection with the management of social housing
provided by the registered provider or arranges for the provision of such
services.

21.1.194B.3

For the purposes of subsection  (2) , an agreement does not include a contract
of employment or a contract of apprenticeship.

21.1.194B.4

“Senior housing executive” of a registered provider means a relevant
individual who—

21.1.194B.4.a

is an employee or officer of the registered provider,

21.1.194B.4.b

has responsibility (solely or jointly) for the day to day management of the
provision of services in connection with the management of social housing
provided by the registered provider, and

21.1.194B.4.c

is part of the registered provider’s senior management.

21.1.194B.5

“Senior housing executive” of a services provider in relation to a registered
provider means a relevant individual who—

21.1.194B.5.a

is—

21.1.194B.5.a.i

an employee of the services provider,

21.1.194B.5.a.ii

an officer of the services provider, or

21.1.194B.5.a.iii

if the services provider is a partnership, a partner in the partnership,

21.1.194B.5.b

has responsibility (solely or jointly) for the day to day management of the
provision of services in connection with the management of social housing
provided by the registered provider, and

21.1.194B.5.c

is part of the services provider’s senior management.

21.1.194B.6

For the purposes of subsections  (4)  and  (5) , an individual is part of a
registered provider’s or services provider’s senior management if the
individual plays a significant role in—

21.1.194B.6.a

the making of decisions about how the whole or a substantial part of the
activities of the provider which relate to social housing are to be managed or
organised, or

21.1.194B.6.b

the management or organisation of the whole or a substantial part of such
activities.

21.1.194B.7

“Senior housing manager” of a registered provider means a relevant individual
who—

21.1.194B.7.a

is an employee of the registered provider, and

21.1.194B.7.b

is a senior housing and property manager for the registered provider.

21.1.194B.8

“Senior housing manager” of a services provider in relation to a registered
provider means a relevant individual who—

21.1.194B.8.a

is an employee of the services provider,

21.1.194B.8.b

is a senior housing and property manager for the services provider, and

21.1.194B.8.c

is involved in the provision of services in connection with the management of
social housing provided by the registered provider.

21.1.194B.9

For the purposes of subsections  (7)  and  (8) , whether an individual is a
senior housing and property manager is to be determined by reference to the
description of the occupation of senior housing and property management
published by the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education under
section ZA10(5) of the Apprenticeships, Skills, Children and Learning Act
2009.

21.1.194B.10

In this section—

   “ employee ” includes a person employed under a contract of apprenticeship;
“ relevant individual ” has the same meaning as in section 194A.

21.1.194B.11

The following Table gives the meaning of “ officer ” in relation to services
providers for the purposes of this section—

                         Services provider Meaning of “officer”
Registered charity which is not a registered company Trustee, secretary or
treasurer Registered society “Officer” within the meaning given by section 149
of the Co-operative and Community Benefit Societies Act 2014 (including a
person co-opted to serve on the society’s committee) Registered company
“Officer” within the meaning given by section 1173 of the Companies Act 2006
Limited liability partnership A member of the limited liability partnership.

21.2

In section 196 of that Act (consultation), after subsection (2) insert—

21.2.3

Before setting a standard under section 194A which imposes a requirement
described in subsection (4) of that section, the regulator must consult, or
ensure that there has been consultation with, each body (if any) which is
nominated by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this subsection.

21.2.4

The Secretary of State may nominate a body for the purposes of subsection  (3)
only if the body appears to the Secretary of State to represent the interests
of services providers in relation to registered providers (as defined in
section  194B (2) ).

21.2.5

The Secretary of State must notify the regulator of any nomination (or
withdrawal of any nomination) made for the purposes of subsection  (3) .

21.3

In section 197 of that Act (direction by Secretary of State), after subsection
(5) insert—

21.3.5A

Before giving a direction to set a standard under section 194A which imposes a
requirement described in subsection (4) of that section, the Secretary of
State must consult one or more bodies appearing to the Secretary of State to
represent the interests of services providers in relation to registered
providers (as defined in section  194B (2) ).

21.4

After section 217 of that Act insert—

########## Implied terms of management services agreements relating to qualifications

21.4.217A

21.4.217A.1

Each management services agreement in relation to social housing of a
registered provider, whenever entered into, is to be treated as including the
terms set out in subsection (4).

21.4.217A.2

In this section, a “ management services agreement ”, in relation to social
housing of a registered provider, means an agreement under which one person (a
“services provider”) agrees with another person (the “services recipient”) to
provide services in connection with the management of social housing provided
by the registered provider or to arrange for the provision of such services.

21.4.217A.3

For the purposes of subsection  (2) —

21.4.217A.3.a

an agreement does not include a contract of employment or a contract of
apprenticeship, and

21.4.217A.3.b

the services recipient may be the registered provider or another person.

21.4.217A.4

The terms are that—

21.4.217A.4.a

the services provider must secure that its relevant managers who are involved
in the provision of services in connection with the management of social
housing to which the agreement relates meet the qualification standard at all
times;

21.4.217A.4.b

in the event that the services provider does not comply with the term set out
in paragraph (a), the services provider will take such action to rectify the
non-compliance as is reasonably required by the services recipient;

21.4.217A.4.c

the services provider must comply with any reasonable request for information
demonstrating whether or not the services provider is complying with the term
in paragraph (a) that is made by the registered provider who provides the
social housing to which the agreement relates or (if different) the services
recipient.

21.4.217A.5

A relevant manager of a services provider under a management services
agreement “meets the qualification standard” if—

21.4.217A.5.a

a standard is in force under section 194A which requires the registered
provider who provides the social housing to which the agreement relates to
take steps to secure that the manager has, or is working towards, a
qualification or type of qualification in housing management, and

21.4.217A.5.b

the manager has or (as the case may be) is working towards such a
qualification,

or if there is no standard in force under section 194A which imposes a
requirement described in paragraph (a).

21.4.217A.6

A term of a management services agreement is not binding on the services
recipient to the extent it would—

21.4.217A.6.a

exclude or restrict the liability of the services provider for breach of a
term implied by this section, or

21.4.217A.6.b

prevent an obligation under a term implied by this section arising or limiting
its extent.

21.4.217A.7

In this section “ relevant manager ”, in relation to a services provider, has
the same meaning as it has for the purposes of section 194A (see section
194A(5)).

21.5

In consequence of the amendment made by subsection (4), in section 192 of that
Act—

21.5.a

in paragraph (d), omit the final “and”;

21.5.b

at the end of paragraph (e) insert

, and

21.5.b.f

makes provision about terms to be implied into management services agreements
(section 217A).

#### Standards relating to information and transparency

22

22.1

The Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 is amended as follows.

22.2

After  section 194B  (inserted by  section 21 ) insert—

########## Standards relating to information and transparency

22.2.194C

22.2.194C.1

The regulator may set standards for registered providers in matters relating
to the provision of information to their tenants of social housing and to the
regulator, including standards requiring information to be published.

22.2.194C.2

Standards under subsection  (1)  may, in particular, require registered
providers to comply with specified rules about—

22.2.194C.2.a

the provision of information to their tenants of social housing concerning the
accommodation, facilities or services provided in connection with social
housing, including information concerning—

22.2.194C.2.a.i

their tenants’ rights in connection with those things, and

22.2.194C.2.a.ii

how to make complaints against registered providers,

22.2.194C.2.b

monitoring their compliance with standards under this section and sections
193, 194 and  194A  and informing the regulator if they have failed, or there
is a risk they will fail, to meet any of those standards, and

22.2.194C.2.c

the publication of information about—

22.2.194C.2.c.i

the remuneration of their executives, and

22.2.194C.2.c.ii

their income, management costs and other expenditure.

22.2.194C.3

For the purposes of subsection  (2) (c) , an “ executive ”, in relation to a
registered provider, means an individual who is both—

22.2.194C.3.a

an officer or employee of the registered provider, and

22.2.194C.3.b

responsible for the management of the provider.

22.3

In section 220 (grounds for giving enforcement notice), in subsection (2), for
“193 or 194” substitute  “193, 194 or  194C ” .

22.4

In section 227 (grounds for imposition of penalty), in subsection (2), for
“193 or 194” substitute  “193, 194 or  194C ” .

22.5

In section 237 (grounds for award of compensation), in subsection (2), for
“193 or 194” substitute  “193, 194 or  194C ” .

22.6

In section 247 (management tender), in subsection (1)(a), for “193 or 194”
substitute  “193, 194 or  194C ” .

22.7

In section 251 (appointment of manager), in subsection (1)(a), for “193 or
194” substitute  “193, 194 or  194C ” .

#### Code of practice: standards relating to consumer matters

23

In section 195 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 (code of practice)—

23.a

in subsection (1)(a), omit “under section 194”;

23.b

in subsection (2), omit “under that section”.

#### Direction by Secretary of State

24

In section 197 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 (direction by
Secretary of State), after subsection (2) insert—

24.2A

The Secretary of State may direct the regulator—

24.2A.a

to set a standard under  section 194A ,

24.2A.b

to set a standard under section  194C  which relates, in the Secretary of
State’s opinion, to the matters in section  194C (2) (a) ,

24.2A.c

about the content of standards described in paragraph  (a)  or  (b) , or

24.2A.d

to have regard to specified objectives when setting those standards.

#### Secretary of State’s duty to give direction about providing information to tenants

25

25.1

The Secretary of State must give a direction to the Regulator of Social
Housing under section 197(2A) of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 about
setting a standard under section  194C  of that Act (standards relating to
information and transparency) for the purpose of securing that registered
providers of social housing are required to provide their tenants of low cost
rental accommodation with information about—

25.1.a

their tenants’ rights in connection with the low cost rental accommodation and
with facilities or services provided in connection with that accommodation,
and

25.1.b

how their tenants can make a complaint against them.

25.2

The Secretary of State must give the direction before the end of the period of
six months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed.

25.3

In this section—

                           “ low cost rental accommodation ” means
accommodation which—
is low cost rental accommodation (as defined in section 69 of the Housing and
Regeneration Act 2008) provided by a registered provider of social housing,
and
is not low cost home ownership accommodation (as defined in section 70 of that
Act);
“ tenant ”, in relation to low cost rental accommodation, includes other
occupiers.

#### Failure to meet standards: exercise of intervention powers

26

Omit sections 198A and 198B of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008.

#### Performance monitoring

27

27.1

The Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 is amended as follows.

27.2

Before section 199 (and the heading immediately before it) insert—

########## Performance information

########### Directions about performance information

27.2.198C

27.2.198C.1

The regulator may give directions to registered providers requiring them to
collect, process and publish information about their performance in relation
to matters covered by standards under sections 193, 194,  194A  and  194C .

27.2.198C.2

Directions under subsection  (1)  may, in particular, specify or describe—

27.2.198C.2.a

the information that must be collected,

27.2.198C.2.b

the period the information must cover,

27.2.198C.2.c

the method of collecting, processing and presenting information,

27.2.198C.2.d

the form in which information must be presented, and

27.2.198C.2.e

what information must be published and when and the manner of publication.

27.2.198C.3

A direction—

27.2.198C.3.a

may make provision that applies generally or only to specified cases,
circumstances or registered providers, and

27.2.198C.3.b

may make different provision for different cases, circumstances or registered
providers.

27.2.198C.4

The regulator must make arrangements for bringing a direction to the attention
of every registered provider to which it applies.

27.2.198C.5

The regulator may request that a registered provider send to the regulator—

27.2.198C.5.a

any information collected by the registered provider pursuant to directions
under subsection  (1) ;

27.2.198C.5.b

an analysis of that information;

27.2.198C.5.c

an explanation of how the information was collected, processed or published.

27.3

In section 220 (grounds for giving enforcement notice), at the appropriate
place insert—

27.3.11C

Case 13 is where the registered provider has failed to comply with directions
or a request under section 198C.

27.4

In section 227 (grounds for imposition of penalty), at the appropriate place
insert—

27.4.7C

Case 9 is where the registered provider has failed to comply with directions
or a request under section 198C.

### Monitoring and enforcement

#### Surveys

28

28.1

The Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 is amended as follows.

28.2

In section 199 (survey)—

28.2.a

in subsection (3)—

28.2.a.i

for “subsection (2)” substitute  “this section and in sections 199A to 200,” ,
and

28.2.a.ii

for “of this section” substitute  “of the section concerned” ;

28.2.b

omit subsections (4) to (6);

28.2.c

after subsection (8) insert—

28.2.c.9

Arrangements for a person other than a member of the regulator’s staff to
carry out a survey may include provision about payments.

28.3

After section 199 insert—

########## Survey: power to enter without warrant

28.3.199A

28.3.199A.1

An authorised person may enter premises at any reasonable time, or times, to
carry out a survey under section 199.

28.3.199A.2

The power in subsection  (1)  may only be exercised if an authorised person
has given at least 48 hours’ notice of the first exercise of the power—

28.3.199A.2.a

to the registered provider, and

28.3.199A.2.b

if the premises are occupied, to the occupier (or any one of the occupiers).

28.3.199A.3

The requirement to give notice may be waived—

28.3.199A.3.a

in the case of notice required by  subsection (2) (a) , by the registered
provider, and

28.3.199A.3.b

in the case of notice required by  subsection (2) (b) , by the occupier (or
any one of the occupiers) of the premises.

28.3.199A.4

Notice under  subsection (2)  may state that, if entry to the premises were to
be refused, an authorised person would propose to apply for a warrant under
section  199B .

28.3.199A.5

Notice required by  subsection (2) (b)  may be given by fixing it to some
conspicuous part of the premises.

28.3.199A.6

An authorised person who under this section has entered, or who is seeking to
enter, premises in order to carry out a survey must produce a copy of the
authorisation mentioned in section 199(3) on request by an occupier.

28.3.199A.7

An authorised person entering premises to carry out a survey may—

28.3.199A.7.a

be accompanied by such other persons, and

28.3.199A.7.b

take onto the premises such equipment or materials,

as the authorised person thinks necessary for the purposes of carrying out the
survey.

28.3.199A.8

Equipment or materials taken onto premises by virtue of subsection  (7)  may
be left in a place on the premises until the survey has been carried out
provided that—

28.3.199A.8.a

leaving the equipment or the materials in that place does not significantly
impair the ability of an occupier to use the premises, or

28.3.199A.8.b

leaving the equipment or the materials on the premises is necessary for the
purposes of carrying out the survey and it is not possible to leave it or them
in a place that does not significantly impair the ability of an occupier to
use the premises.

28.3.199A.9

Where the premises include common parts of a building, references in
subsection  (8)  to the ability of an occupier to use the premises include the
ability of an occupier of a dwelling that has use of the common parts to use
those parts or the dwelling.

28.3.199A.10

In this section, “ common parts ”, in relation to a building, includes the
structure and exterior of that building and any common facilities provided
(whether or not in the building) for persons who occupy the building.

########## Survey: power to enter with warrant

28.3.199B

28.3.199B.1

This section applies where a justice of the peace is satisfied, on sworn
information in writing by an authorised person, that entry to premises
specified in the information is reasonably required to carry out a survey
under section 199.

28.3.199B.2

The justice may issue a warrant authorising the authorised person who is named
in it to enter the premises to carry out the survey where the justice is
satisfied that—

28.3.199B.2.a

entry to the premises has been sought under section  199A  but has been
refused,

28.3.199B.2.b

the premises are unoccupied or that the occupier is temporarily absent, or

28.3.199B.2.c

there are reasonable grounds to believe that the authorised person will not be
able to obtain entry to the premises without a warrant.

28.3.199B.3

A warrant under this section authorises the authorised person to enter the
premises at any reasonable time, or times, using reasonable force if
necessary.

28.3.199B.4

A warrant under this section authorises an authorised person entering premises
to take onto the premises such equipment or materials as the authorised person
thinks necessary for the purposes of carrying out the survey.

28.3.199B.5

Equipment or materials taken onto premises by virtue of subsection  (4)  may
be left in a place on the premises until the survey has been carried out
provided that—

28.3.199B.5.a

leaving the equipment or the materials in that place does not significantly
impair the ability of an occupier to use the premises, or

28.3.199B.5.b

leaving the equipment or the materials on the premises is necessary for the
purposes of carrying out the survey and it is not possible to leave it or them
in a place that does not significantly impair the ability of an occupier to
use the premises.

28.3.199B.6

Where the premises include common parts of a building (as defined in section
199A ), references in subsection  (5)  to the ability of an occupier to use
the premises include the ability of an occupier of a dwelling that has use of
the common parts to use those parts or the dwelling.

28.3.199B.7

A warrant under this section may authorise persons (“accompanying persons”) to
accompany the authorised person.

28.3.199B.8

Accompanying persons—

28.3.199B.8.a

have the same powers as the authorised person in respect of execution of the
warrant, but

28.3.199B.8.b

must exercise those powers only in the company, and under the supervision, of
the authorised person.

28.3.199B.9

An authorised person who has entered, or who is seeking to enter, premises
under a warrant under this section must produce on request by any person—

28.3.199B.9.a

a copy of the warrant;

28.3.199B.9.b

a copy of the authorisation mentioned in section 199(3).

28.3.199B.10

A warrant under this section continues in force until the survey is carried
out.

28.3.199B.11

If the premises are unoccupied or the occupier is temporarily absent, the
authorised person who has entered the premises under a warrant under this
section must leave the premises as effectively secured against trespassers as
the authorised person found them.

28.4

In section 200 (survey: supplemental)—

28.4.a

omit subsection (1);

28.4.b

omit subsection (3);

28.4.c

for subsection (4) substitute—

28.4.c.4

A registered provider, or an officer of a registered provider, commits an
offence if the provider or officer obstructs an authorised person—

28.4.c.4.a

in exercising a power under section  199A , or

28.4.c.4.b

in exercising a power under section 199, where the authorised person has
entered the premises to carry out the survey under the power in section  199A
.

;

28.4.d

after subsection (4) insert—

28.4.d.4A

A person commits an offence if the person obstructs an authorised person—

28.4.d.4A.a

in exercising a power conferred by a warrant under section  199B , or

28.4.d.4A.b

in exercising a power under section 199, where the authorised person has
entered the premises to carry out a survey under a warrant under section  199B
.

#### Inspection plan

29

29.1

The Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 is amended as follows.

29.2

After section 201 (inspections) insert—

########## Inspection plan

29.2.201A

29.2.201A.1

The regulator must make a plan as regards—

29.2.201A.1.a

the descriptions of registered provider that should be subject to regular
inspection under section 201,

29.2.201A.1.b

the intervals at which regular inspections should be carried out under that
section, and

29.2.201A.1.c

the circumstances in which registered providers should be subject to
inspections under that section other than regular inspections.

29.2.201A.2

The plan may make different provision for different cases, circumstances or
areas.

29.2.201A.3

The regulator must take appropriate steps to implement the plan.

29.2.201A.4

The regulator must—

29.2.201A.4.a

keep the plan under review,

29.2.201A.4.b

when appropriate, revise or replace the plan, and

29.2.201A.4.c

publish the plan and any revised or replacement plan.

29.3

In section 215 (use of intervention powers), after subsection (1) insert—

29.3.1A

In determining whether the regulator has complied with subsection (1) in
relation to its power to arrange for inspections under section 201(1), a plan
published under section  201A  may be taken into account.

#### Action after inspection

30

30.1

The Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 is amended as follows.

30.2

In section 202 (inspections: supplemental), omit subsections (1) to (3).

30.3

In section 203(12) (definition of “inspector”), after “this section” insert
“and section 203A” .

30.4

After section 203 insert—

########## Action after inspection

30.4.203A

30.4.203A.1

After an inspection of a registered provider is carried out by an inspector
under section 201, the inspector must produce—

30.4.203A.1.a

a written summary of the inspector’s findings, and

30.4.203A.1.b

a written report about any matters specified by the regulator.

30.4.203A.2

The summary and any report must be in the form specified by the regulator.

30.4.203A.3

The regulator may specify matters, or the form of a summary or report, for the
purposes of inspections generally or for the purposes of a particular
inspection or description of inspection.

30.4.203A.4

The regulator must give the registered provider a copy of the summary of the
inspector’s findings.

30.4.203A.5

The regulator must also give the registered provider—

30.4.203A.5.a

a copy of the inspector’s report, or

30.4.203A.5.b

a notice confirming that no matters were specified for the purposes of
subsection (1)(b).

30.4.203A.6

The regulator may publish—

30.4.203A.6.a

all or part of the summary of the inspector’s findings,

30.4.203A.6.b

(where relevant) all or part of the inspector’s report, and

30.4.203A.6.c

related information.

#### Performance improvement plans

31

31.1

The Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 is amended as follows.

31.2

After section 218 insert—

########## Performance improvement plans

########### Performance improvement plan notice

31.2.218A

31.2.218A.1

The regulator may give a registered provider a notice (a “performance
improvement plan notice”) if the regulator is satisfied that—

31.2.218A.1.a

the registered provider has failed to meet a standard under section 193, 194,
194A  or  194C ,

31.2.218A.1.b

there is a risk that, if no action is taken by the regulator or the registered
provider, the registered provider will fail to meet a standard under section
193, 194,  194A  or  194C ,

31.2.218A.1.c

the registered provider has failed to comply with directions or a request
under section  198C ,

31.2.218A.1.d

the interests of the tenants of social housing of the registered provider
require protection, or

31.2.218A.1.e

the registered provider has given an undertaking under section 125 and failed
to comply with it.

31.2.218A.2

A performance improvement plan notice must—

31.2.218A.2.a

specify on which of the grounds mentioned in subsection  (1)  it is given,

31.2.218A.2.b

identify the issues which led the regulator to be satisfied of those grounds,

31.2.218A.2.c

require the registered provider to prepare and submit to the regulator a plan
(a “performance improvement plan”) setting out the action the provider will
take to address the issues identified,

31.2.218A.2.d

specify the date by which the performance improvement plan must be submitted
to the regulator,

31.2.218A.2.e

require the registered provider to publish a performance improvement plan if
it is approved by the regulator and specify the manner of such publication,
and

31.2.218A.2.f

explain the effect of subsections  (3)  and  (4)  and sections  218B  to  218D
.

31.2.218A.3

The regulator may withdraw a performance improvement plan notice by notice to
the registered provider.

31.2.218A.4

If a registered provider fails to comply with a performance improvement plan
notice the regulator must consider exercising another power under this Chapter
or Chapter 6.

########### Performance improvement plans

31.2.218B

31.2.218B.1

The regulator must—

31.2.218B.1.a

approve a performance improvement plan submitted in accordance with section
218A (2) (c)  and  (d) , or

31.2.218B.1.b

reject it, giving reasons for doing so.

31.2.218B.2

A registered provider must implement in full a performance improvement plan
that has been approved by the regulator.

31.2.218B.3

If a performance improvement plan is rejected, the registered provider will be
taken to have failed to comply with the performance improvement plan notice.

31.2.218B.4

If a tenant of social housing of a registered provider makes a written request
to the provider for a copy of the provider’s performance improvement plan
which has been approved by the regulator, the registered provider must provide
the tenant with a copy as soon as reasonably practicable.

########### Cancellation of performance improvement plan

31.2.218C

31.2.218C.1

The regulator may, by notice to a registered provider, cancel a performance
improvement plan which it has approved.

31.2.218C.2

Notice under subsection  (1)  must specify the date (the “cancellation date”)
on which the cancellation takes effect (which may be a date before the notice
is given).

31.2.218C.3

If a performance improvement plan is cancelled in accordance with subsection
(1)  the duties mentioned in subsection  (4)  cease to apply (or are treated
as having ceased to apply) from the cancellation date.

But this does not affect any action taken (or being taken) by the regulator in
relation to a breach of such a duty before the cancellation date.

31.2.218C.4

The duties are—

31.2.218C.4.a

the duty to publish a performance improvement plan which has been approved
(see section  218A (2) (e) );

31.2.218C.4.b

the duty in section  218B (2)  (duty to implement a plan);

31.2.218C.4.c

the duty in section  218B (4)  (duty to provide copy of plan).

########### Appeals

31.2.218D

31.2.218D.1

A registered provider may appeal to the High Court against a decision of the
regulator to give the provider a performance improvement plan notice.

31.2.218D.2

An appeal under this section must be brought within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the registered provider is given the notice.

31.2.218D.3

The requirement to prepare and submit a performance improvement plan is
suspended during the appeal period.

31.2.218D.4

The “ appeal period ” means—

31.2.218D.4.a

where an appeal is brought, the period beginning with the day on which the
performance improvement plan notice is given and ending with the day on which
the appeal is finally determined or withdrawn, and

31.2.218D.4.b

otherwise, the period during which an appeal could be brought.

31.2.218D.5

But where a performance improvement plan has been approved under section  218B
an appeal under this section does not suspend—

31.2.218D.5.a

the duty to publish a performance improvement plan which has been approved
(see section  218A (2) (e) );

31.2.218D.5.b

the duty in section  218B (2)  (duty to implement a plan);

31.2.218D.5.c

the duty in section  218B (4)  (duty to provide copy of plan).

31.3

In section 220 (grounds for giving enforcement notice), before subsection (12)
(but after the subsection (11C) inserted by section  27 ) insert—

31.3.11D

Case 14 is where the registered provider has failed to comply with a
performance improvement plan notice.

31.3.11E

Case 15 is where the registered provider has a performance improvement plan
which has been approved by the regulator and has failed to implement it in
full.

31.4

In section 227 (grounds for imposition of a penalty), before subsection (8)
(but after the subsection (7C) inserted by section  27 ) insert—

31.4.7D

Case 10 is where the registered provider has failed to comply with a
performance improvement plan notice.

31.4.7E

Case 11 is where the registered provider has failed to comply with the duty in
section  218B (4)  (duty to provide copy of performance improvement plan).

31.5

In section 237 (grounds for award of compensation) at the end insert—

31.5.5

Case 4 is where the registered provider has failed to comply with a
performance improvement plan notice.

31.5.6

Case 5 is where the registered provider has failed to comply with the duty in
section  218B (4)  (duty to provide copy of performance improvement plan).

31.6

In section 247 (management tender), in subsection (1), after paragraph (b)
insert

, or

31.6.c

a registered provider has failed to comply with a performance improvement plan
notice.

31.7

In section 251 (appointment of manager), in subsection (1), after paragraph
(b) insert

, or

31.7.c

a registered provider has failed to comply with a performance improvement plan
notice.

31.8

In section 252A (appointment of advisers to local authority), in subsection
(2), at the end of paragraph (e) (inserted by paragraph  10  of Schedule  3 )
insert

, or

31.8.f

that the authority has failed to comply with a performance improvement plan
notice.

#### Emergency remedial action

32

After section 225 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 insert—

######## Emergency remedial action

######### Overview

32.225A

This group of sections gives the regulator power to authorise persons to enter
premises to take specified action to remedy specified failures on the part of
registered providers.

######### Power to take emergency remedial action

32.225B

32.225B.1

If the conditions in subsections  (2)  to  (4)  are met, the regulator may
arrange for an authorised person to take emergency remedial action in respect
of premises.

32.225B.2

Condition 1 is that a survey of the condition of the premises has been carried
out under section 199.

32.225B.3

Condition 2 is that the regulator is satisfied that—

32.225B.3.a

the registered provider has failed to maintain the premises in accordance with
standards under section 193, and

32.225B.3.b

that failure has caused an imminent risk of serious harm to the health or
safety of the occupiers of those or other premises.

32.225B.4

Condition 3 is that the registered provider has failed to comply with an
enforcement notice requiring it to take action to address the failure
mentioned in subsection  (3) (a) .

32.225B.5

In this section and in sections  225C  to  225G , “ emergency remedial action
”, in relation to premises, is carrying out such works to the premises as the
authorised person considers immediately necessary to remove the imminent risk
of serious harm mentioned in subsection  (3) (b) .

32.225B.6

In this section and in sections  225C  to  225G , “ authorised person ” means
a member of the regulator’s staff, or another person, authorised in writing by
the regulator for the purposes of the section concerned.

32.225B.7

Arrangements for a person other than a member of the regulator’s staff to take
emergency remedial action may include provision about payments.

######### Emergency remedial action: power to enter without warrant

32.225C

32.225C.1

An authorised person may enter premises at any reasonable time, or times, to
take emergency remedial action.

32.225C.2

The power in subsection  (1)  may only be exercised if an authorised person
has given a pre-entry notice to—

32.225C.2.a

if the premises are occupied, the occupier (or any one of the occupiers),

32.225C.2.b

if the premises include common parts of a building and there are occupied
dwellings in the building that have use of those common parts, the occupier
(or any one of the occupiers) of each of those dwellings,

32.225C.2.c

the registered provider whose failure to maintain the premises has caused the
imminent risk of serious harm, and

32.225C.2.d

each person registered in the register kept under section 1 of the Land
Registration Act 2002 as the proprietor of a registered estate (within the
meaning of that Act) in the premises.

32.225C.3

A pre-entry notice required by subsection  (2)  need only be given once in
respect of emergency remedial action in relation to premises, even if an
authorised person enters the premises on more than one occasion in order to
take the emergency remedial action.

32.225C.4

A “pre-entry notice” is a notice which—

32.225C.4.a

identifies the premises to be entered;

32.225C.4.b

identifies the failure to maintain the premises which has caused the imminent
risk of serious harm;

32.225C.4.c

states that a person authorised by the regulator intends to enter the
premises;

32.225C.4.d

specifies the date (or the first date) that the authorised person proposes to
enter the premises to take emergency remedial action;

32.225C.4.e

specifies the power under this section as the power under which the authorised
person intends to enter the premises;

32.225C.4.f

explains the effect of section  225H .

32.225C.5

A pre-entry notice may state that, if entry to the premises were to be
refused, an authorised person would propose to apply for a warrant under
section  225E .

32.225C.6

An authorised person may not enter premises in reliance on a pre-entry notice—

32.225C.6.a

before the date (or the first date) specified in the notice, or

32.225C.6.b

within 24 hours of giving the notice, 

except where the relevant person in respect of the notice consents.

32.225C.7

In subsection  (6) , “the relevant person” in respect of the pre-entry notice
means—

32.225C.7.a

in the case of a pre-entry notice required by  subsection (2) (a)  or  (b) ,
the occupier (or any one of the occupiers) of the premises or dwelling;

32.225C.7.b

in the case of a pre-entry notice required by  subsection (2) (c)  or  (d) ,
the person (or each person) to whom a pre-entry notice is required to be
given.

32.225C.8

In this section, “ common parts ”, in relation to a building, includes the
structure and exterior of that building and any common facilities provided
(whether or not in the building) for persons who occupy the building.

######### Power under section 

32.225D

32.225D.1

A pre-entry notice required by section  225C (2) (a)  or  (b)  may be given by
fixing it to some conspicuous part of the premises.

32.225D.2

A pre-entry notice required by section  225C (2) (d)  may be given by sending
it to an address supplied for the purpose of service of notice under the Land
Registration Act 2002 (see paragraph 5 of Schedule 10 to that Act).

32.225D.3

An authorised person who under section  225C  has entered, or who is seeking
to enter, premises to take emergency remedial action must produce a copy of
the authorisation mentioned in  225B (6)  on request by an occupier.

32.225D.4

An authorised person entering premises to take emergency remedial action may—

32.225D.4.a

be accompanied by such other persons, and

32.225D.4.b

take onto the premises such equipment or materials,

as the authorised person thinks necessary for the purposes of taking the
emergency remedial action.

32.225D.5

Equipment or materials taken onto premises by virtue of subsection  (4) (b)
may be left in a place on the premises until the emergency remedial action has
been taken provided that—

32.225D.5.a

leaving the equipment or the materials in that place does not significantly
impair the ability of an occupier to use the premises, or

32.225D.5.b

leaving the equipment or the materials on the premises is necessary for the
purposes of taking the emergency remedial action and it is not possible to
leave it or them in a place that does not significantly impair the ability of
an occupier to use the premises.

32.225D.6

Where the premises include common parts of a building (as defined in section
225C ), references in subsection  (5)  to the ability of an occupier to use
the premises include the ability of an occupier of a dwelling that has use of
the common parts to use those parts or the dwelling.

######### Emergency remedial action: power to enter with warrant

32.225E

32.225E.1

This section applies where a justice of the peace is satisfied, on sworn
information in writing by an authorised person, that entry to premises
specified in the information is reasonably required to take emergency remedial
action under section  225B .

32.225E.2

The justice may issue a warrant authorising the authorised person who is named
in it to enter the premises to take emergency remedial action where the
justice is satisfied that—

32.225E.2.a

entry to the premises has been sought under section  225C  but has been
refused,

32.225E.2.b

the premises are unoccupied or that the occupier is temporarily absent, or

32.225E.2.c

there are reasonable grounds to believe that the authorised person will not be
able to obtain entry to the premises without a warrant.

32.225E.3

A warrant under this section authorises the authorised person to enter the
premises at any reasonable time, or times, using reasonable force if
necessary.

32.225E.4

A warrant under this section authorises an authorised person entering premises
to take onto the premises such equipment or materials as the authorised person
thinks necessary for the purposes of taking the emergency remedial action.

32.225E.5

Equipment or materials taken onto premises by virtue of subsection  (4)  may
be left in a place on the premises until the emergency remedial action has
been taken provided that—

32.225E.5.a

leaving the equipment or the materials in that place does not significantly
impair the ability of an occupier to use the premises, or

32.225E.5.b

leaving the equipment or the materials on the premises is necessary for the
purposes of taking the emergency remedial action and it is not possible to
leave it or them in a place that does not significantly impair the ability of
an occupier to use the premises.

32.225E.6

Where the premises include common parts of a building (as defined in section
225C ), references in subsection  (5)  to the ability of an occupier to use
the premises include the ability of an occupier of a dwelling that has use of
the common parts to use those parts or the dwelling.

32.225E.7

A warrant under this section may authorise persons (“accompanying persons”) to
accompany the authorised person.

32.225E.8

Accompanying persons—

32.225E.8.a

have the same powers as the authorised person in respect of execution of the
warrant, but

32.225E.8.b

must exercise those powers only in the company, and under the supervision, of
the authorised person.

32.225E.9

An authorised person who has entered, or who is seeking to enter, premises
under a warrant under this section must produce on request by any person—

32.225E.9.a

a copy of the warrant;

32.225E.9.b

a copy of the authorisation mentioned in  225B (6) .

32.225E.10

A warrant under this section continues in force until the emergency remedial
action has been taken.

32.225E.11

If the premises are unoccupied or the occupier is temporarily absent, the
authorised person who has entered the premises under a warrant under this
section must leave the premises as effectively secured against trespassers as
the authorised person found them.

######### Offences

32.225F

32.225F.1

A registered provider, or an officer of a registered provider, commits an
offence if the provider or officer obstructs an authorised person—

32.225F.1.a

in exercising a power under section  225C  or  225D , or

32.225F.1.b

in exercising a power under section  225B , where the authorised person has
entered the premises to take emergency remedial action under the power in
section  225C .

32.225F.2

A person commits an offence if the person obstructs an authorised person—

32.225F.2.a

in exercising a power conferred by a warrant under section  225E , or

32.225F.2.b

in exercising a power under section  225B , where the authorised person has
entered the premises to take emergency remedial action under a warrant under
section  225E .

32.225F.3

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 4 on the standard scale.

32.225F.4

Proceedings for an offence under this section may be brought only by or with
the consent of—

32.225F.4.a

the regulator, or

32.225F.4.b

the Director of Public Prosecutions.

######### Reclaiming expenses

32.225G

32.225G.1

Where the regulator makes arrangements under section  225B , the regulator may
by notice require the registered provider concerned to pay to the regulator—

32.225G.1.a

such relevant expenses as are specified in the notice;

32.225G.1.b

interest on those expenses (see subsection  (4) ).

32.225G.2

“Relevant expenses” are—

32.225G.2.a

expenses reasonably incurred by the regulator—

32.225G.2.a.i

in deciding whether to make arrangements under section  225B ;

32.225G.2.a.ii

in making those arrangements;

32.225G.2.a.iii

in the authorised person taking emergency remedial action;

32.225G.2.b

any costs reasonably incurred by the regulator related to the action in
paragraph  (a) (iii) .

32.225G.3

Sums mentioned in subsection  (1) (a)  are payable at the end of the period of
28 days beginning with the day on which the notice is given.

32.225G.4

Interest may be charged on any sums not paid by the end of the period
mentioned in subsection  (3)  at such reasonable rate as the regulator may
determine.

######### Appeals

32.225H

32.225H.1

A registered provider may appeal to the High Court against—

32.225H.1.a

a decision of the regulator to make arrangements under section  225B (1) ;

32.225H.1.b

a decision of the regulator to give a notice under section  225G (1) .

32.225H.2

An appeal under subsection  (1) (a)  must be brought within the period of 28
days beginning—

32.225H.2.a

with the day on which the registered provider is given the pre-entry notice
under section  225C (2) , or

32.225H.2.b

with the day on which the premises were first entered under a warrant obtained
under section  225E  on the grounds in subsection  (2) (b)  or  (c)  of that
section.

32.225H.3

An appeal under subsection  (1) (b)  must be brought within the period of 28
days beginning with the day on which the registered provider is given the
notice under section  225G (1) .

32.225H.4

No question may be raised on an appeal under subsection  (1) (b)  which might
have been raised on an appeal under subsection  (1) (a) .

32.225H.5

Where an appeal under subsection  (1) (b)  is brought—

32.225H.5.a

the requirement to pay the sums described in section  225G (1) (a)  is
suspended during the period beginning with the day on which the notice under
section  225G (1)  is given and ending with the day on which the appeal is
finally determined or withdrawn, and

32.225H.5.b

no interest is payable by virtue of section  225G (1) (b)  in respect of that
period.

#### Extension of powers to charities who have not received public assistance

33

In the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 omit—

33.a

section 209(1) (inquiries);

33.b

section 256(7) (orders restricting dealings during inquiry);

33.c

section 257(5) (orders restricting dealings following inquiry);

33.d

section 259(5) (orders suspending officers etc during inquiry);

33.e

section 260(4) (orders removing or suspending officers etc following inquiry);

33.f

section 267(2) (orders removing officers);

33.g

section 269(6)(a), including the final “ and ” (orders appointing new
officers).

#### Notification of Charity Commission of exercise of enforcement powers

34

34.1

The Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 is amended as follows.

34.2

In section 256 (restrictions on dealings during inquiry), after subsection (6)
insert—

34.2.6A

If the registered provider is a registered charity, the regulator must notify
the Charity Commission if it makes an order under this section.

34.3

In section 257 (restrictions on dealings following inquiry), after subsection
(4) insert—

34.3.4A

If the registered provider is a registered charity, the regulator must notify
the Charity Commission if it makes an order under this section.

34.4

In section 267 (supplemental provision about removal of officers), after
subsection (1A) (inserted by paragraph  17  of Schedule  4 ) insert—

34.4.1B

The regulator must notify the Charity Commission if it makes an order removing
an officer of a registered charity.

34.5

In section 269 (appointment of new officers), in subsection (6)(b), for
“consulted the Charity Commission” substitute  “notified the Charity
Commission of its intention to do so” .

#### Exercise of powers: land with a Crown or Duchy interest

35

Before section 277 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 (but after the
heading before that section) insert—

######## Exercise of powers: land with a Crown or Duchy interest

35.276A

35.276A.1

The powers in Chapters 6 and 7 are exercisable in relation to premises which
are on land in which there is a Crown interest or a Duchy interest.

35.276A.2

A “ Crown interest ” means—

35.276A.2.a

an interest belonging to His Majesty in right of the Crown, or

35.276A.2.b

an interest belonging to a government department or held in trust for His
Majesty for the purposes of a government department.

35.276A.3

A “ Duchy interest ” means an interest belonging to His Majesty in right of
the Duchy of Lancaster or belonging to the Duchy of Cornwall.

#### Regulatory and enforcement powers: further amendments

36

Schedule  3  makes further amendments to the regulatory and enforcement powers
of the Regulator of Social Housing.

### Social housing

#### Leaving the social housing stock: end of lease

37

37.1

In section 74 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 (leaving the social
housing stock: ending of lease)—

37.1.a

in the heading, for “expired” substitute  “ending of” ;

37.1.b

in subsection (1)(b), for “expires” substitute  “determines (whether by
effluxion of time or in any other way)” ;

37.1.c

for subsection (2) substitute—

37.1.c.2

But subsection (1) does not apply if, immediately before the leasehold
interest determines, the lessor was—

37.1.c.2.a

an associate or subsidiary of the provider, or

37.1.c.2.b

a registered provider.

37.2

The amendments in subsection (1) apply in relation to leases granted on or
after 10 June 2022.

### Meaning of “subsidiary”

#### Meaning of “subsidiary”

38

38.1

In section 271 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 (meaning of subsidiary
and associate), for subsections (1) to (5) substitute—

38.1.1

A person (“ A ”) is a subsidiary of another person (“ B ”) if—

38.1.1.a

A is a subsidiary undertaking in relation to B for the purposes of the
Companies Acts (see section 1162 of, and Schedule 7 to, the Companies Act
2006), or

38.1.1.b

A would be a subsidiary undertaking in relation to B for those purposes if
“undertaking” were defined for those purposes to mean any person.

38.2

For the purposes of section 74 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008, the
amendment in subsection (1) applies in relation to leases granted on or after
10 June 2022.

### Appeals

#### Appeals

39

Schedule  4  makes provision about appeals under the Housing and Regeneration
Act 2008.

### Housing ombudsman

#### Housing ombudsman scheme

40

40.1

Schedule 2 to the Housing Act 1996 (social rented sector: housing complaints)
is amended as follows.

40.2

In paragraph 2, in sub-paragraph (1), after item 11 insert—

40.2.11A

A power of the housing ombudsman to issue a code of practice about the
procedures members of the scheme should have in place for considering
complaints against them.

40.2.11B

A duty of the housing ombudsman to consult—

40.2.11B.a

the Regulator of Social Housing,

40.2.11B.b

members of the scheme, and

40.2.11B.c

individuals who may make complaints under the scheme,

before issuing, revising or replacing any such code.

40.2.11C

A duty of the housing ombudsman to monitor compliance with a code of practice
described in item 11A that it has issued.

40.3

In paragraph 2, in sub-paragraph (1), in item 15, for “expenses of the scheme”
substitute  “costs of the person administering the scheme and the scheme’s
housing ombudsman” .

40.4

In paragraph 7, after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

40.4.2A

Sub-paragraph  (2B)  applies where during an investigation of a complaint
against a member of the scheme, a housing ombudsman identifies that the
member’s policies or practices in relation to a matter may give rise to
further complaints about that matter.

40.4.2B

The housing ombudsman may, in the ombudsman’s determination of the complaint,
order the member to review their policy or practice on that matter.

40.5

In paragraph 11—

40.5.a

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

40.5.a.1ZA

The amount of a subscription payable by a member may be calculated by
reference to costs incurred, or likely to be incurred, by the person
administering the scheme and the scheme’s housing ombudsman in carrying out
any of their functions, including costs unconnected with the member and costs
unconnected with the operation of the scheme.

;

40.5.b

in sub-paragraph (1B), for “expenses”, in both places, substitute  “costs” ;

40.5.c

in sub-paragraph (1C)—

40.5.c.i

for “expenses”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “costs” ;

40.5.c.ii

for “expenses of the scheme” substitute  “costs” .

#### Power of housing ombudsman to issue guidance to scheme members

41

41.1

The Housing Act 1996 is amended as follows.

41.2

In the italic heading before section 51, for “complaints” substitute
“ombudsman” .

41.3

After section 51 insert—

########## Power of housing ombudsman to issue guidance to scheme members

41.3.51ZA

41.3.51ZA.1

This section applies where a scheme is approved by the Secretary of State
under Schedule 2.

41.3.51ZA.2

The housing ombudsman may issue to the members of the scheme guidance as to
good practice in the carrying on of housing activities covered by the scheme.

41.3.51ZA.3

Before issuing, revising or replacing guidance under this section, the housing
ombudsman must consult—

41.3.51ZA.3.a

the Regulator of Social Housing,

41.3.51ZA.3.b

members of the scheme, and

41.3.51ZA.3.c

individuals who may make complaints under the scheme.

41.3.51ZA.4

If the housing ombudsman issues, revises or replaces guidance under this
section, the housing ombudsman must publish the guidance, the revised guidance
or (as the case may be) the replacement guidance.

41.3.51ZA.5

Subsection (7) applies if—

41.3.51ZA.5.a

an individual makes a complaint against a member of the scheme,

41.3.51ZA.5.b

the complaint is made under the scheme or the conditions in subsection (6) are
met in relation to the complaint, and

41.3.51ZA.5.c

it appears to the housing ombudsman that the complaint relates to a matter to
which guidance issued by the ombudsman under this section relates.

41.3.51ZA.6

The conditions referred to in subsection (5)(b) are that—

41.3.51ZA.6.a

the complaint is made to the member of the scheme,

41.3.51ZA.6.b

the complaint is one that the individual could subsequently make under the
scheme, and

41.3.51ZA.6.c

the individual has notified the ombudsman about the complaint.

41.3.51ZA.7

The housing ombudsman may order the member of the scheme to—

41.3.51ZA.7.a

assess whether the member’s policies and practices in relation to the matter
mentioned in subsection (5)(c) are consistent with the guidance issued by the
ombudsman under this section in relation to that matter, and

41.3.51ZA.7.b

within a period specified in the order, submit to the ombudsman a written
statement of the results of the assessment.

41.3.51ZA.8

If a member of the scheme fails to comply with an order under subsection (7)
within the period specified in the order, the housing ombudsman may order the
member to publish in such manner as the ombudsman sees fit a statement that
the member has failed to comply with the order.

41.3.51ZA.9

If a member of the scheme fails to comply with an order under subsection (8),
the housing ombudsman may—

41.3.51ZA.9.a

take such steps as the ombudsman considers appropriate to publish what the
member ought to have published, and

41.3.51ZA.9.b

recover from the member the costs of doing so.

41.3.51ZA.10

In this section, “ the housing ombudsman ” means the housing ombudsman
appointed in accordance with the scheme.

### Social housing leases: remedying hazards

#### Social housing leases: remedying hazards

42

After section 10 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 insert—

######## Implied term as to remedying of hazards

######### Remedying of hazards occurring in dwellings let on relevant social housing leases

42.10A

42.10A.1

This section applies to a lease of a dwelling if—

42.10A.1.a

the dwelling is in England,

42.10A.1.b

the lease is a relevant social housing lease, and

42.10A.1.c

section 9A—

42.10A.1.c.i

applies to the lease (see section 9B), or

42.10A.1.c.ii

would apply to the lease if the provision in section 9B(3) did not exist.

42.10A.2

There is implied in the lease a covenant by the lessor that the lessor will
comply with all prescribed requirements that are applicable to that lease.

42.10A.3

The Secretary of State must make regulations which require the lessor under a
lease to which this section applies to take action, in relation to prescribed
hazards which affect or may affect the leased dwelling, within the period or
periods specified in the regulations.

42.10A.4

Regulations under subsection (3) are enforceable against lessors only through
actions for breach of the covenant that is implied by subsection (2).

42.10A.5

In any proceedings for a breach of the covenant that is implied by subsection
(2), it is a defence for the lessor to prove that the lessor used all
reasonable endeavours to avoid that breach.

42.10A.6

For the purposes of this section a lease is a “relevant social housing lease”
at any time when—

42.10A.6.a

the lessor under the lease is a registered provider of social housing, and

42.10A.6.b

the dwelling leased under the lease—

42.10A.6.b.i

is social housing, but

42.10A.6.b.ii

is not low cost home ownership accommodation.

42.10A.7

In this section and section 10B—

                                                                        “
lease ”, “ lessor ” and “ lessee ” have the same meanings as in section 9A
(see section 9A(9));
“ low cost home ownership accommodation ” has the meaning given in section 70
of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008;
“ prescribed hazard ” has the same meaning as in section 10 (see section 10(2)
and (3));
“ prescribed requirement ” means a requirement prescribed in regulations under
subsection (3);
“ social housing ” has the same meaning as in Part 2 of the Housing and
Regeneration Act 2008 (see sections 68 and 72 of that Act).

######### Regulations section 10A: supplementary provision

42.10B

42.10B.1

Regulations under section 10A(3) may apply to—

42.10B.1.a

leases granted before the day when  section 42  of the Social Housing
(Regulation) Act 2023 came into force;

42.10B.1.b

prescribed hazards which began before that day;

42.10B.1.c

only some descriptions of prescribed hazards.

42.10B.2

Regulations under section 10A(3) may—

42.10B.2.a

specify a period that is not of a specific duration (for example a reasonable
or appropriate period, including a period decided by the lessor or another
person);

42.10B.2.b

specify two (or more) periods in relation to particular action.

42.10B.3

Regulations under section 10A(3) may (in particular)—

42.10B.3.a

require the lessor to take particular action, or action that is intended to
produce a particular outcome, in relation to a prescribed hazard;

42.10B.3.b

require the lessor to take action in relation to a prescribed hazard that is
not of itself intended to remedy the hazard, for example by requiring the
lessor—

42.10B.3.b.i

to investigate whether or how a prescribed hazard is affecting the leased
dwelling, or

42.10B.3.b.ii

to secure that the lessee and any other members of the lessee’s household are
provided with alternative accommodation at no cost to them;

42.10B.3.c

require the lessor to take action in relation to a prescribed hazard only—

42.10B.3.c.i

in particular circumstances, or

42.10B.3.c.ii

if particular conditions are met;

42.10B.3.d

provide that the lessor is not required to take action in relation to a
prescribed hazard—

42.10B.3.d.i

in particular circumstances, or

42.10B.3.d.ii

if particular conditions are met.

42.10B.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

42.10B.4.a

provide for section 10A not to apply to particular descriptions of leases;

42.10B.4.b

make provision, in relation to the covenant that is implied by section 10A(2),
which corresponds to any provision made by section 9A(4) to (8).

42.10B.5

A power to make regulations under section 10A or this section includes power
to make—

42.10B.5.a

incidental, transitional or saving provision;

42.10B.5.b

different provision for different purposes.

42.10B.6

The power to make transitional or saving provision may (in particular) be used
to make provision about situations where the covenant in section 10A(2)—

42.10B.6.a

begins to be implied in a lease after its grant because it becomes a relevant
social housing lease;

42.10B.6.b

ceases to be implied in a lease because it ceases to be a relevant social
housing lease (including provision to save the lessor’s liability for any
breach of the covenant occurring before it ceases to be implied).

42.10B.7

Regulations under section 10A or this section are to be made by statutory
instrument.

42.10B.8

A statutory instrument containing regulations under section 10A or this
section may not be made unless a draft of it has been laid before and approved
by resolution of each House of Parliament.

### General

#### Minor and consequential amendments

43

Schedule  5  contains minor and consequential amendments.

#### Power to make consequential provision

44

44.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision that is consequential
on this Act.

44.2

Regulations under this section may amend, repeal or revoke provision made by
or under an Act passed—

44.2.a

before this Act, or

44.2.b

later in the same session of Parliament as this Act.

44.3

Regulations under this section—

44.3.a

are to be made by statutory instrument;

44.3.b

may include different provision for different purposes.

44.4

A statutory instrument containing (whether alone or with other provision)
regulations under this section that amend or repeal provision made by an Act
may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and
approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

44.5

Any other statutory instrument containing regulations under this section is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

#### Extent

45

45.1

This Act extends to England and Wales only, subject to subsections  (2)  and
(3) .

45.2

Section  44 , this section and sections  46  and  47  extend to England and
Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

45.3

An amendment or repeal has the same extent as the provision amended or
repealed.

#### Commencement

46

46.1

The following come into force on the day this Act is passed—

46.1.a

section  11 ;

46.1.b

sections  44  and  45 ;

46.1.c

this section;

46.1.d

section  47 .

46.2

Sections  25 ,  40  and  41  come into force at the end of the period of two
months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed.

46.3

The other provisions of this Act come into force on such day or days as the
Secretary of State may by regulations appoint.

46.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations make transitional or saving
provision in connection with the coming into force of any provision of this
Act.

46.5

The power to make regulations under subsection  (4)  includes power to make
different provision for different purposes.

46.6

Regulations under this section are to be made by statutory instrument.

#### Short title

47

This Act may be cited as the Social Housing (Regulation) Act 2023.

## Schedules

Limited liability partnerships

Section  13

##### Amendments of the Housing and Planning Act 2016

###### Introductory

1

The Housing and Planning Act 2016 is amended as set out in paragraphs  2  to
9 .

###### Extension of housing administration regime

2

In section 95 (housing administration orders), in subsection (1), after
paragraph (a)(i) insert—

2.ia

a limited liability partnership,

.

3

In section 100 (powers of court: meaning of “relevant officer”), in subsection
(7), after paragraph (a) insert—

3.aa

in relation to a limited liability partnership, means a member of the
partnership,

.

###### Restrictions on insolvency procedures

4

In section 102 (power to make regulations applying etc insolvency
legislation), in subsections (2) and (3), after “relation to” insert  “a
limited liability partnership,” .

5

In section 104 (winding-up orders), after subsection (1)(a) insert—

5.aa

a limited liability partnership,

.

6

In section 105 (voluntary winding up), in subsection (1), after paragraph (a),
insert—

6.aa

a limited liability partnership,

.

7

In section 106 (ordinary administration orders)—

7.a

in subsection (1), in paragraph (a), omit the final “or”;

7.b

after that paragraph insert—

7.b.aa

a limited liability partnership, or

.

8

In section 107 (administrator appointments by creditors)—

8.a

in subsection (1), in paragraph (a), omit the final “or”;

8.b

after that paragraph insert—

8.b.aa

a limited liability partnership, or

.

###### Interpretation

9

In section 116 (interpretation of Chapter 5 of Part 2)—

9.a

in subsection (1), in the definition of “the court”, after “company”, in each
place it occurs, insert  “, limited liability partnership” ;

9.b

in subsection (7), after paragraph (a) insert—

9.b.aa

in relation to a limited liability partnership, are to that provision as it
applies to limited liability partnerships otherwise than by virtue of
regulations under section 102 (if at all),

.

##### Amendments of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008

###### Introductory

10

The Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 is amended as set out in paragraphs  11
to  20 .

###### Notice of registration or de-registration

11

In section 120 (notice), in subsection (1)(c), after “charity)” insert  “or a
limited liability partnership” .

###### Accounts

12

12.1

Section 129 (companies exempt from audit) is amended as follows.

12.2

In the heading, after “companies” insert  “or limited liability partnerships”
.

12.3

In subsection (1)(a), after “charity” insert  “or is a limited liability
partnership” .

12.4

In subsection (2)—

12.4.a

after “directors of the company” insert  “or members of the limited liability
partnership” ;

12.4.b

for “company’s”, in both places, substitute  “registered provider’s” ;

12.4.c

for “which the company” substitute  “which the registered provider” .

12.5

In subsection (3), for “has the same meaning as in” substitute  “means
accounts prepared in accordance with” .

13

13.1

Section 130 (exempt companies: accountant’s report) is amended as follows.

13.2

In the heading, after “companies” insert  “or limited liability partnerships”
.

13.3

In subsection (2), for “company’s” substitute  “registered provider’s” .

13.4

In subsection (3)(b), for “company” substitute  “registered provider” .

13.5

For subsection (6) substitute—

13.5.6

In this section and sections 131 and 132—

“ firm ” means any entity, whether or not a legal person, that is not an
individual and includes a body corporate, a corporation sole and a partnership
or other unincorporated association; “ body corporate ” includes a body
incorporated outside the United Kingdom.

14

In section 131 (exempt companies: reporting accountant)—

14.a

in the heading, after “companies” insert  “or limited liability partnerships”
;

14.b

in subsection (1), for “company”, in both places, substitute  “registered
provider” .

15

15.1

Section 132 (application of Companies Act) is amended as follows.

15.2

In subsection (1)—

15.2.a

for “company” substitute  “registered provider” ;

15.2.b

for “company’s” substitute  “registered provider’s” .

15.3

In subsection (2)(e)—

15.3.a

for “454(4)(b)” substitute  “454” ;

15.3.b

for the words from “provision” to the end substitute  “section (revised
accounts and reports),” .

16

In section 133 (exempt companies: extraordinary audit)—

16.a

in the heading, after “companies” insert  “or limited liability partnerships”
;

16.b

in subsections (1), (2) and (4), for “company”, in each place, substitute
“registered provider” .

17

In section 141 (offences), in subsection (6), omit the words from “not” to the
end.

###### Moratorium on disposal of land

18

In section 154 (implementation of regulator’s proposals), in subsection (2),
after paragraph (aa) insert—

18.ab

in the case of a limited liability partnership, its members,

.

###### Arrangements and reconstructions

19

In section 160 (arrangements and reconstructions)—

19.a

in the heading, after “company” insert  “and limited liability partnership” ;

19.b

in subsection (1), after “company” insert  “or a limited liability
partnership” .

###### Meaning of “officer”

20

In section 270 (meaning of “officer” of a private registered provider), in the
Table, after the entry relating to “Registered company” insert—

Limited liability partnership A member of the limited liability partnership

.

                 Amendments to restrictions on insolvency procedures

Section  14

1

The Housing and Planning Act 2016 is amended as follows.

2

In section 104 (winding-up orders), after subsection (2) insert—

2.2A

A notice under subsection (2) must—

2.2A.a

be given in writing,

2.2A.b

be signed by, or on behalf of, the petitioner,

2.2A.c

specify the date the petition was presented, and

2.2A.d

contain a copy of the petition.

2.2B

Subsection  (2C)  applies if a person gives a notice purporting to be a notice
under subsection (2) but which does not meet the requirements of any (or all)
of paragraphs  (b) ,  (c)  or  (d)  of subsection  (2A) .

2.2C

The Regulator of Social Housing may, by notice in writing to the petitioner,
treat the purported notice as notice given under subsection (2)(a) (and a
purported notice so treated will be taken as having been given at the time the
purported notice was given).

3

In section 105 (voluntary winding up), after subsection (4) insert—

3.4A

A notice under subsection (4) must—

3.4A.a

be given in writing,

3.4A.b

be signed by, or on behalf of, the registered provider,

3.4A.c

specify the date the application was made, and

3.4A.d

contain a copy of the application.

3.4B

Subsection  (4C)  applies if a person gives a notice purporting to be a notice
under subsection (4) but which does not meet the requirements of any (or all)
of paragraphs  (b) ,  (c)  or  (d)  of subsection  (4A) .

3.4C

The Regulator of Social Housing may, by notice in writing to the registered
provider, treat the purported notice as notice given under subsection (4)(a)
(and a purported notice so treated will be taken as having been given at the
time the purported notice was given).

4

In section 106 (ordinary administration orders), after subsection (3) insert—

4.3A

A notice under subsection (3) must—

4.3A.a

be given in writing,

4.3A.b

be signed by, or on behalf of, the person who made the ordinary administration
application,

4.3A.c

specify the date the application was made, and

4.3A.d

contain a copy of the application.

4.3B

Subsection  (3C)  applies if a person gives a notice purporting to be a notice
under subsection (3) but which does not meet the requirements of any (or all)
of paragraphs  (b) ,  (c)  or  (d)  of subsection  (3A) .

4.3C

The Regulator of Social Housing may, by notice in writing to the person who
made the ordinary administration application, treat the purported notice as
notice given under subsection (3)(a)(i) (and a purported notice so treated
will be taken as having been given at the time the purported notice was
given).

5

In section 107 (appointment of administrator)—

5.a

in the heading, after “creditors” insert  “etc” ;

5.b

in subsection (4)(a)(i) omit the words from “, accompanied” to “1986”;

5.c

after subsection (4) insert—

5.c.4A

A notice under subsection (4) must—

5.c.4A.a

be given in writing,

5.c.4A.b

be signed by, or on behalf of, the person making the appointment,

5.c.4A.c

specify the date the appointment was made, and

5.c.4A.d

contain copies of every document in relation to the appointment that is filed
or lodged with the court in accordance with paragraph 18 or 29 of Schedule B1
to the Insolvency Act 1986.

5.c.4B

Subsection  (4C)  applies if a person gives a notice purporting to be a notice
under subsection (4) but which does not meet the requirements of any (or all)
of paragraphs  (b) ,  (c)  or  (d)  of subsection  (4A) .

5.c.4C

The Regulator of Social Housing may, by notice in writing to the person making
the appointment, treat the purported notice as notice given under subsection
(4)(a)(i) (and a purported notice so treated will be taken as having been
given at the time the purported notice was given).

;

5.d

in subsection (5) omit “(and a copy of the accompanying documents)”.

6

In section 108 (enforcement of security)—

6.a

in subsection (1), omit the words from “that” to the end;

6.b

after subsection (2) insert—

6.b.2A

A notice under subsection (2) must—

6.b.2A.a

be given in writing, and

6.b.2A.b

be signed by, or on behalf of, the person intending to enforce the security.

6.b.2B

Subsection  (2C)  applies if a person gives a notice purporting to be a notice
under subsection (2) but which does not meet the requirement of paragraph  (b)
of subsection  (2A) .

6.b.2C

The Regulator of Social Housing may, by notice in writing to the person
intending to enforce the security, treat the purported notice as notice given
under subsection (2)(a) (and a purported notice so treated will be taken as
having been given at the time the purported notice was given).

;

6.c

omit subsection (3);

6.d

before subsection (4) insert—

6.d.3A

In the case of a registered provider that is a charity registered under the
Charities Act 2011 which is not a body corporate, the reference to the
property of the registered provider is to the property held on the trusts of
the charity (and for this purpose “ trusts ” has the same meaning as in the
Charities Act 2011, see section 353 of that Act).

                 Regulatory and enforcement powers

Section  36

1

The Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 is amended as follows.

2

In section 201 (inspections) omit subsections (2) and (2A).

3

In section 206 (inquiry)—

3.a

for subsection (1) substitute—

3.a.1

The regulator may hold an inquiry into the affairs of a registered provider if
the regulator suspects that—

3.a.1.a

the affairs of the registered provider may have been mismanaged,

3.a.1.b

the registered provider has failed to meet a standard under section 193, 194
or  194C , or

3.a.1.c

there is a risk that, if no action is taken by the regulator or the registered
provider, the registered provider will fail to meet a standard under section
193, 194 or  194C .

;

3.b

in subsection (4)(a), for “, employees or consultants” substitute  “or
employees” ;

3.c

omit subsection (5).

4

In section 226 (overview of provisions on penalties) omit “private”.

5

In section 227 (grounds for imposition of penalty), in subsection (1), omit
“private”.

6

In section 229 (amount of penalty)—

6.a

in subsection (2), after “penalty” insert  “that may be” ;

6.b

in that subsection, for “may not exceed £5,000” substitute  “is unlimited” ;

6.c

omit subsection (3).

7

In section 249 (management transfer), in subsection (1)—

7.a

in paragraph (a), omit “or”;

7.b

at the end of paragraph (b) insert

, or

7.b.c

the registered provider has failed to meet a standard under section 193, 194
or  194C .

8

In section 251 (appointment of manager of a private registered provider), in
subsection (2), in both places, omit “an individual as”.

9

In section 252 (supplementary provisions about appointment of manager)—

9.a

for subsection (2) substitute—

9.a.2

The registered provider may make representations to the regulator about the
notice within the period of 5 days beginning with the day on which the
provider receives the notice.

;

9.b

after subsection (2) insert—

9.b.2A

Unless the registered provider consents, the regulator may not take action
under section 251(2) before the expiry of the period within which the provider
may make representations.

;

9.c

omit subsection (3).

10

In section 252A (appointment of advisers to local authorities), in subsection
(2)—

10.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for “thinks” substitute  “is satisfied” ;

10.b

at the end of paragraph (d) (inserted by section  10 ) insert—

10.b.e

that the authority has failed to meet a standard under section 193, 194 or
194C ,

.

11

In section 253 (transfer of land by private registered provider), in
subsection (1)—

11.a

in paragraph (a), omit “or”;

11.b

at the end of paragraph (b) insert

, or

11.b.c

the registered provider has failed to meet a standard under section 193, 194
or  194C .

12

In section 255 (amalgamation), in subsection (1)—

12.a

in paragraph (a), omit “or”;

12.b

at the end of paragraph (b) insert

, or

12.b.c

the registered provider has failed to meet a standard under section 193, 194
or  194C .

13

In section 256 (restrictions on dealings during inquiry)—

13.a

in subsection (1)(a), for “non-profit” substitute  “private” ;

13.b

in subsection (3), for the words from “that” to the end substitute

that—

13.b.a

the affairs of the registered provider have been mismanaged, or

13.b.b

the registered provider has failed to meet a standard under section 194.

14

In section 257 (restrictions on dealings following inquiry), in subsection
(1), for the words from “that” to the end substitute  “that—

14.a

the affairs of a private registered provider have been mismanaged, or

14.b

a private registered provider has failed to meet a standard under section
194.”

15

In section 259 (suspension of officer etc during inquiry)—

15.a

in subsection (1)(a), for “non-profit” substitute  “private” ;

15.b

in subsection (1)(b), for “either” substitute  “any” ;

15.c

in subsection (3), for the words from “that” to the end substitute

that—

15.c.a

the affairs of the registered provider have been mismanaged, or

15.c.b

the registered provider has failed to meet a standard under section 193, 194
or  194C .

;

15.d

after subsection (3) insert—

15.d.3A

Case 3 applies if the regulator is satisfied that an officer, employee or
agent of the registered provider is obstructing, or failing to co-operate
with, the inquiry.

;

15.e

for subsection (4) substitute—

15.e.4

The regulator may by order—

15.e.4.a

where Case 1 or Case 2 applies, suspend any officer, employee or agent of the
registered provider who it thinks has contributed to the mismanagement or
failure, or

15.e.4.b

where Case 3 applies, suspend the officer, employee or agent who it thinks is
obstructing, or failing to co-operate with, the inquiry.

16

In section 260 (removal or suspension of officer etc following inquiry)—

16.a

in subsection (1), for the words from “that” to the end substitute

that—

16.a.a

the affairs of a private registered provider have been mismanaged, or

16.a.b

a private registered provider has failed to meet a standard under section 193,
194 or  194C .

;

16.b

in subsection (2), for the words from “who” to the end substitute

who—

16.b.a

it thinks has contributed to the mismanagement or failure, or

16.b.b

it thinks obstructed, or failed to co-operate with, the inquiry under section
206.

17

In section 266 (removal of officers)—

17.a

in subsection (1), for “non-profit” substitute  “private” ;

17.b

after subsection (8) insert—

17.b.9

Case 8 applies to a person who is obstructing the regulator, or failing to co-
operate with the regulator, in the performance of the regulator’s functions
under this Part.

18

In section 269 (appointment of new officers)—

18.a

in subsection (1), for “non-profit” substitute  “private” ;

18.b

in subsection (1)(b), omit “or”;

18.c

after subsection (1)(b) insert—

18.c.ba

in the case of a registered provider which is a registered charity, registered
society or registered company, if none of the officers is a board member,

18.c.bb

if the regulator is satisfied that the registered provider has failed to meet
a standard under section 193, 194 or  194C , or

;

18.d

after subsection (1) insert—

18.d.1A

In subsection (1)(ba), “ board member ” means—

18.d.1A.a

in the case of a registered charity which is not a registered company, a
charity trustee within the meaning given by section 177 of the Charities Act
2011;

18.d.1A.b

in the case of a registered society, a member of its committee within the
meaning given by section 149 of the Co-operative and Community Benefit
Societies Act 2014;

18.d.1A.c

in the case of a registered company, a director within the meaning given by
section 250 of the Companies Act 2006.

;

18.e

in subsection (4)(a)—

18.e.i

leave out “on expiry”;

18.e.ii

after “appointment” insert  “(on any number of occasions)” .

19

In section 269A (local authorities: censure during or following inquiry)—

19.a

in subsection (3), for the words from “that” to the end substitute

that—

19.a.a

the affairs of the authority have been mismanaged, or

19.a.b

the authority has failed to meet a standard under section 193, 194 or  194C .

;

19.b

in subsection (4), for the words from “that” to the end substitute

that—

19.b.a

the affairs of the authority have been mismanaged, or

19.b.b

the authority has failed to meet a standard under section 193, 194 or  194C .

20

In section 269B (response to censure notice), in subsection (2)(c), after
“mismanaged” insert  “or it has failed to meet the standard (as the case may
be).”

                 Appeals

Section  39

1

The Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 is amended as follows.

2

In section 115 (profit-making and non-profit organisations), in subsection
(9), at the end insert  “and notify the body it has done so.”

3

In section 116 (voluntary registration), after subsection (2) insert—

3.2A

The regulator must notify a body of the outcome of its application.

4

4.1

Section 118 (compulsory de-registration) is amended as follows.

4.2

For subsection (2) substitute—

4.2.2

Before acting under subsection (1)(a), (aa) or (b) the regulator must—

4.2.2.a

give the private registered provider a notice—

4.2.2.a.i

warning the provider that the regulator is considering action under the
provision concerned, and

4.2.2.a.ii

specifying a period (which must be at least 14 days beginning with the day the
provider receives the notice) within which the provider may make
representations, and

4.2.2.b

consider any representations made during that period.

4.3

For subsection (3) substitute—

4.3.3

The regulator must notify a private registered provider of a decision to
remove it from the register under subsection (1)(a), (aa) or (b).

5

5.1

Section 121 (registration decisions: appeals) is amended as follows.

5.2

In subsection (1)—

5.2.a

in paragraph (b), after “it” insert  “under section 118(1)” ;

5.2.b

in that paragraph, omit “or”;

5.2.c

at the end of paragraph (c) insert—

5.2.c.d

to designate it as a non-profit organisation or as a profit-making
organisation (as the case may be), or

5.2.c.e

to change its registered designation.

5.3

After subsection (1) insert—

5.3.1A

An appeal under this section must be brought within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the body is notified of the decision it is
appealing.

5.4

In subsection (2), for “while an appeal is pending” substitute  “during the
appeal period” .

5.5

After subsection (2) insert—

5.5.2A

The “ appeal period ” means—

5.5.2A.a

where an appeal is brought, the period beginning with the day on which notice
of the decision appealed against is given and ending with the day on which the
appeal is finally determined or withdrawn, and

5.5.2A.b

otherwise, the period during which an appeal could be brought.

5.5.2B

Subsections  (1A)  to  (2A)  do not apply to a decision of the regulator to
de-register a body under section 118(1)(c).

6

In section 223 (enforcement notice: appeal)—

6.a

the existing text becomes subsection (1);

6.b

after that subsection insert—

6.b.2

An appeal under this section must be brought within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the registered provider is given the
enforcement notice.

7

In section 235 (penalty notice: appeals)—

7.a

the existing text becomes subsection (1);

7.b

after that subsection insert—

7.b.2

An appeal under this section must be brought within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the registered provider is given the penalty
notice.

7.b.3

The requirement to pay the penalty is suspended during the appeal period.

7.b.4

Regulations under section 234(2) may not authorise the regulator to—

7.b.4.a

charge interest in respect of the appeal period, or

7.b.4.b

impose additional penalties during that period.

7.b.5

The “ appeal period ” means—

7.b.5.a

where an appeal is brought, the period beginning with the day on which the
penalty notice is given and ending with the day on which the appeal is finally
determined or withdrawn, and

7.b.5.b

otherwise, the period during which an appeal could be brought.

8

In section 245 (compensation notice: appeals)—

8.a

the existing text becomes subsection (1);

8.b

after that subsection insert—

8.b.2

An appeal under this section must be brought within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the registered provider is given the
compensation notice.

8.b.3

The requirement to pay the compensation is suspended during the appeal period.

8.b.4

Regulations under section 244(2) may not authorise the regulator to—

8.b.4.a

award interest in respect of the appeal period, or

8.b.4.b

award additional compensation during that period.

8.b.5

The “ appeal period ” means—

8.b.5.a

where an appeal is brought, the period beginning with the day on which the
compensation notice is given and ending with the day on which the appeal is
finally determined or withdrawn, and

8.b.5.b

otherwise, the period during which an appeal could be brought.

9

In section 247 (management tender), in subsection (2), after “may” insert  “by
notice” .

10

In section 248 (management tender: procedure and appeals), after subsection
(9) insert—

10.10

An appeal under this section must be brought within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the regulator notifies the registered provider
of the imposition of a requirement on the provider under section 247(2).

11

In section 249 (management transfer), in subsection (2), after “may” insert
“by notice” .

12

In section 250 (management transfer: procedure and appeals), after subsection
(9) insert—

12.10

An appeal under this section must be brought within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the regulator notifies the registered provider
of the imposition of a requirement on the provider under section 249(2).

13

In section 251 (appointment of manager), in subsection (2), after “may” insert
“by notice to the registered provider” .

14

In section 252 (appointment of manager: procedure and appeals), after
subsection (9) insert—

14.10

An appeal under this section must be brought within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which—

14.10.a

the regulator notifies the registered provider of an appointment made under
section 251(2)(a) (in the case of an appeal against an appointment), or

14.10.b

the regulator notifies the registered provider of the imposition of a
requirement on the provider under section 251(2)(b) (in the case of an appeal
against a requirement).

15

In section 259 (suspension of officer etc during inquiry), after subsection
(7) insert—

15.7A

If the regulator makes an order, the regulator must—

15.7A.a

take all reasonable steps to notify the person suspended, and

15.7A.b

notify the registered provider.

16

In section 260 (removal or suspension of officer etc following inquiry), after
subsection (5) insert—

16.5A

If the regulator makes an order, the regulator must—

16.5A.a

take all reasonable steps to notify the person removed or suspended, and

16.5A.b

notify the registered provider.

17

In section 267 (removal of officers: supplemental), after subsection (1)
insert—

17.1A

If the regulator makes an order, the regulator must—

17.1A.a

take all reasonable steps to notify the person removed, and

17.1A.b

notify the registered provider.

18

In section 268 (removal or suspension of officer etc: appeals)—

18.a

the existing text becomes subsection (1);

18.b

after that subsection insert—

18.b.2

An appeal under this section must be brought within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the registered provider concerned is notified
of the removal or suspension.

                 Minor and consequential amendments

Section  43

##### Housing and Regeneration Act 2008

1

The Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 is amended as set out in paragraphs  2
to  46 .

2

In section 60 (structural overview) omit subsection (4).

3

In section 74A (leaving the social housing stock: private providers), in
subsection (1), in both places, omit “of social housing”.

4

In section 79 (English bodies), omit subsections (2) to (5).

5

In section 92K (fundamental objectives), in subsections (2)(a) and (3)(d),
omit “of social housing”.

6

In section 96 (evidence), in paragraph (d), for “an ombudsman appointed by
virtue of section 124” substitute  “a housing ombudsman” .

7

In section 112 (eligibility for voluntary registration)—

7.a

for subsection (1) substitute—

7.a.1

A body is eligible for registration if—

7.a.1.a

it is an English body, and

7.a.1.b

it satisfies the following conditions.

;

7.b

omit subsection (5).

8

Omit section 113.

9

In section 114 (registration of local authorities)—

9.a

omit subsection (1);

9.b

in subsection (2), after “require” insert  “or permit” ;

9.c

in subsection (3)—

9.c.i

at the end of paragraph (a) insert  “and” ;

9.c.ii

in paragraph (b), omit “and”;

9.c.iii

omit paragraph (c);

9.d

in subsection (5)—

9.d.i

omit paragraph (a);

9.d.ii

in paragraph (b), omit “(1) or”.

10

In section 114A (local authorities: duty to notify), in subsection (1) omit
“in England”.

11

In section 122 (payments to members etc), in subsection (6), for “registered
company or registered society” substitute  “registered provider” .

12

In section 135 (charity accounts), in subsection (1), omit “non-profit”.

13

In section 153 (moratorium: process for proposals)—

13.a

in subsection (2)(a) omit “and its officers”;

13.b

in subsection (6)(a) omit “and its officers”.

14

Before section 169A (but after the heading before that section) insert—

######### Application of rules about notification of constitutional changes

14.169ZA

This group of sections does not apply to local authorities.

15

In section 169D (directions about notifications)—

15.a

for “169C”, in both places, substitute  “169CD” ;

15.b

in subsection (1)(a), omit “private”.

16

In section 192 (overview of Chapter 6)—

16.a

in paragraph (a), for “to 198B” substitute  “to 198” ;

16.b

in paragraph (b), for “to 210” substitute  “to 210A” ;

16.c

in paragraph (d) omit “about the submission of information and opinions
relating to registered providers and”.

17

In section 193 (standards relating to consumer matters)—

17.a

in subsection (1), after “extent” insert  “, safety, energy efficiency” ;

17.b

in subsection (2)(f), for “and informing tenants” substitute  “tenants and
providing them with information in connection with such consultation” ;

17.c

in subsection (2), after paragraph (h) insert—

17.c.ha

policies and procedures in connection with behaviour which amounts to domestic
abuse within the meaning of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 (see section 1 of that
Act),

;

17.d

omit subsection (3).

18

In section 194 (standards relating to economic matters), omit subsection (3).

19

In section 197 (direction by Secretary of State), in subsection (2)(a), after
“quality” insert  “, safety or energy efficiency” .

20

In section 198 (supplemental provisions about standards), after subsection (5)
insert—

20.6

In setting standards the regulator must have regard to the desirability of
registered providers being free to choose how to provide services and conduct
business.

21

In section 203(3) (inspector’s powers), for “107(3) to (7)” substitute
“107(2A) to (4) and (5) to (7)” .

22

In section 208(4) (inquirer’s powers), for “107(3) to (7)” substitute
“107(2A) to (4) and (5) to (7)” .

23

In section 215 (guidance about use of intervention powers) omit—

23.a

subsection (1)(a) (including the final “and”);

23.b

subsection (2);

23.c

subsection (2A).

24

In section 216 (consultation), in paragraph (b), at the end insert  “of social
housing” .

25

In section 217 (accreditation)—

25.a

in subsection (4)(b), after “193” insert  “or  194A ” ;

25.b

in subsection (6), after “193” insert  “or  194A ” .

26

In section 218 (exercise of enforcement powers)—

26.a

in subsection (1), for “Subsection (2)” substitute  “This section” ;

26.b

in subsection (2), after paragraph (d) insert—

26.b.e

whether the failure or other problem is serious or trivial.

;

26.c

omit subsections (3) and (4).

27

In section 220 (grounds for giving enforcement notice)—

27.a

in subsection (2) omit “applicable to it”;

27.b

in subsection (11), for “an ombudsman appointed by virtue of section 124”
substitute  “a housing ombudsman” ;

27.c

omit subsection (11A).

28

In section 227 (grounds for imposition of a penalty), omit subsection (7A).

29

In section 237 (grounds for award of compensation), omit subsection (4).

30

In section 239 (housing ombudsman compensation), in subsection (1), for “an
ombudsman appointed by virtue of section 124” substitute  “a housing
ombudsman” .

31

In section 242 (warning before giving compensation notice), in subsection (2),
for “person appointed by virtue of section 124 as the ombudsman” substitute
“housing ombudsman” .

32

In section 247 (grounds for requiring management tender), in subsection (1)—

32.a

in paragraph (a), omit “applicable to it”;

32.b

omit paragraph (aa) (including the final “or”).

33

In section 251 (grounds for appointing manager), in subsection (1), omit
paragraph (aa) (including the final “or”).

34

In section 256 (restrictions on dealings during an inquiry), in subsection
(2), for “has reasonable grounds for believing” substitute  “is satisfied” .

35

In section 258 (restrictions on dealings: supplemental), in subsection (3),
omit the words from “not” to the end.

36

In the heading immediately before section 259, omit “non-profit”.

37

In section 259 (suspension during inquiry), in subsection (2), for “has
reasonable grounds for believing” substitute  “is satisfied” .

38

In section 264 (offence of acting as an officer while disqualified), in
subsection (2)(a), omit “not exceeding the statutory maximum”.

39

In section 269 (appointment of new officers), in subsection (1)(c), for
“thinks” substitute  “is satisfied” .

40

In section 269A (local authorities: censure during or following inquiry), in
subsection (2), for “has reasonable grounds for believing” substitute  “is
satisfied” .

41

Omit section 274 (definition of charities that have “received public
assistance”).

42

In section 275 (general), for the definition of “local authority” substitute—

                           “ local authority ” means—
the council of a county in England,
a district council,
a London borough council,
the Common Council of the City of London, or
the Council of the Isles of Scilly;

.

43

In section 276 (index of defined terms)—

43.a

 after the entry for “The HCA” insert—

 health and safety lead section  126A (2) health and safety requirement
section  126B (2)

;

43.b

after the entry relating to “penalty notice” insert—

 Performance improvement plan Section  218A Performance improvement plan
notice Section  218A

;

43.c

omit the entry relating to “received public assistance (charities)”.

44

After section 276A (inserted by section  35 ) insert—

######### Data protection

44.276B

44.276B.1

This section applies to a duty or power to process information where the duty
or power is imposed or conferred by or by virtue of any provision of this
Part.

44.276B.2

A duty or power to which this section applies does not operate to require or
authorise the processing of information which would contravene the data
protection legislation (but the duty or power is to be taken into account in
determining whether the processing would contravene that legislation).

44.276B.3

In this section “ the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in
the Data Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act).

45

In section 278A (power to nominate bodies for consultation purposes), in
subsection (1), omit paragraph (b).

46

In section 320 (orders and regulations), in subsection (7)(a), for “, 122 and
229” substitute  “and 122” .

##### Other Acts

47

In Schedule 17 to the Localism Act 2011 (regulation of social housing) omit—

47.a

paragraph 6;

47.b

paragraph 15(4);

47.c

paragraph 17.

48

Omit section 30 of the Welfare Reform and Work Act 2016.

49

49.1

Section 2 of the Leasehold Reform (Ground Rent) Act 2022 (excepted leases) is
amended as follows.

49.2

In subsection (7)(a) omit “within the meaning of section 79 of the Housing and
Regeneration Act 2008”.

49.3

After subsection (7) insert—

49.3.7A

A “ community land trust ” means a body corporate which satisfies the
conditions in subsection (7B); and in those conditions “ local community ”
means the individuals who live or work, or want to live or work, in a
particular area.

49.3.7B

The conditions are—

49.3.7B.a

that the body is established for the express purpose of furthering the social,
economic and environmental interests of a local community by acquiring and
managing land and other assets in order—

49.3.7B.a.i

to provide a benefit to the local community, and

49.3.7B.a.ii

to ensure that the assets are not sold or developed except in a manner which
the trust’s members think benefits the local community, and

49.3.7B.b

that the body is established under arrangements which are expressly designed
to ensure that—

49.3.7B.b.i

any profits from its activities will be used to benefit the local community
(otherwise than by being paid directly to members);

49.3.7B.b.ii

individuals who live or work in the particular area have the opportunity to
become members of the trust (whether or not others can also become members),
and

49.3.7B.b.iii

the members of the trust control it.

