Title: Supply and Appropriation (Main Estimates) Act 2023
Date: 2024-05-15
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/31

## Supply and Appropriation (Main Estimates) Act 2023

                                                   W hereas  the Commons of
the United Kingdom in Parliament assembled have resolved to authorise the use
of resources and the issue of sums out of the Consolidated Fund towards making
good the supply which they have granted to His Majesty in this Session of
Parliament:—
Be it therefore enacted by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Main authorisation for use of resources for 2023-24

1

1.1

The amount up to which there is authorisation for the use of resources for the
year ending with 31 March 2024 is increased by £509,887,984,000.

1.2

Of the amount authorised by  subsection (1) —

1.2.a

£410,735,035,000 is authorised for use for current purposes, and

1.2.b

£99,152,949,000 is authorised for use for capital purposes.

### Main authorisation for issue of money out of Consolidated Fund in 2023-24

2

The amount up to which the Treasury has authorisation—

2.a

to issue money out of the Consolidated Fund, and

2.b

to apply it in the year ending with 31 March 2024 for expenditure authorised
by Parliament,

is increased by £446,117,926,000.

### Appropriation of resources authorised for use for year 2023-24

3

3.1

The aggregate of the following (which is £973,629,331,000) is appropriated for
the year ending with 31 March 2024 in accordance with  subsections (2)  to
(4) —

3.1.a

the amount of resources the use of which for that year is authorised by
section 1(1) of the Supply and Appropriation (Anticipation and Adjustments)
Act 2023, and

3.1.b

the amount of resources the use of which for that year is authorised by
section 1 (1) .

3.2

The amount of resources which is—

3.2.a

set out in each of the Scheduled Estimates, and

3.2.b

identified in that Estimate as a net amount authorised subject to a particular
Departmental Expenditure Limit,

is appropriated by this Act for use, for current or for capital purposes
(according to how it is identified in the Estimate), in respect of any
relevant DEL matter.

3.3

The amount of resources which is—

3.3.a

set out in each of the Scheduled Estimates, and

3.3.b

identified in that Estimate as a net amount of Annually Managed Expenditure,

is appropriated by this Act for use, for current or for capital purposes
(according to how it is identified in the Estimate), in respect of any
relevant AME matter.

3.4

The amount of resources which is—

3.4.a

set out in each of the Scheduled Estimates, and

3.4.b

identified in that Estimate as a net amount of Non-Budget Expenditure,

is appropriated by this Act for use, for current or for capital purposes
(according to how it is identified in the Estimate), in respect of any
relevant NBE matter.

3.5

Section 5 (4)  applies (instead of  subsections (2)  to  (4) ) to any amount
of resources set out in a Scheduled Estimate if it is identified in that
Estimate as representing the amount of an estimated surplus.

### Appropriation of money authorised for issue in year 2023-24

4

4.1

The aggregate of the following (which is £820,671,897,000) is appropriated for
the year ending with 31 March 2024 in accordance with  subsection (2) —

4.1.a

the amount of money the issue of which out of the Consolidated Fund is
authorised by section 1(3) of the Supply and Appropriation (Anticipation and
Adjustments) Act 2023, and

4.1.b

the amount of money the issue of which out of that Fund is authorised by
section 2 .

4.2

The amount of money which is set out in each of the Scheduled Estimates and
identified in that Estimate as a net cash requirement is appropriated for
expenditure—

4.2.a

on any use of resources that has been authorised by Parliament in relation to
the department or other person to which the Estimate relates, or in relation
to the service to which it relates, or

4.2.b

for any other purpose specified in that Estimate as a purpose for which that
money may be applied.

4.3

Section 5 (4)  applies (instead of  subsection (2)  of  this section ) to any
amount of money set out in a Scheduled Estimate if it is identified in that
Estimate as representing the amount of an estimated surplus.

### Appropriation and other use of income

5

5.1

Subsections (2)  to  (4)  make provision (instead of imposing limits on
appropriations in aid under section 2 of the Government Resources and Accounts
Act 2000) about the use of income arising for the year ending with 31 March
2024 from matters specified in the Scheduled Estimates as matters from which
income may arise.

5.2

Income specified in a Scheduled Estimate may be appropriated for use for
current or capital purposes (according to the nature of the income)—

5.2.a

where the matters from which the income may arise are specified in relation to
a particular Departmental Expenditure Limit, in respect of relevant DEL
matters,

5.2.b

where the matters from which the income may arise are specified in relation to
an amount of Annually Managed Expenditure, in respect of relevant AME matters,
and

5.2.c

where the matters from which the income may arise are specified in relation to
an amount of Non-Budget Expenditure, in respect of relevant NBE matters.

5.3

This section  authorises an appropriation of income to the extent only that
the appropriation is made in accordance with any applicable rules about the
appropriation of income that have been—

5.3.a

issued by the Treasury; and

5.3.b

laid before the House of Commons before the passing of this Act.

5.4

Where an amount specified in a Scheduled Estimate is identified as
representing the amount of an estimated surplus, appropriations of income in
respect of any matter are authorised by  this section  to the extent only
that—

5.4.a

they are consistent, in the opinion of the Treasury, with financial planning
that is calculated to produce a surplus of at least that amount, or

5.4.b

they are authorised by a direction given by the Treasury for the purpose of
anticipating a proposal for the reduction or elimination of the estimated
surplus by a subsequent Act relating to financial supply and appropriation.

5.5

All amounts of money received in the year ending with 31 March 2024 in respect
of any matter whatever by a department or other person to whom a Scheduled
Estimate relates, or in respect of any service to which a Scheduled Estimate
relates, must be paid into the Consolidated Fund, unless—

5.5.a

the appropriation for any other use of those amounts, or of the accrued
amounts in respect of which they are received, is authorised by  this section
or any other enactment, or

5.5.b

they are dealt with in some other manner in accordance with any other
enactment or in consequence of the exercise of a power conferred by any other
enactment.

5.6

Where the Treasury determine that there has been or is likely to be a
contravention of  this section , the Treasury may give the person appearing to
them to be responsible for the contravention whatever directions the Treasury
think fit for rectifying the situation.

5.7

A direction by the Treasury under  this section  may be revoked or varied by a
subsequent direction.

### Operation from beginning of financial year

6

The appropriations and other provision made by  sections 3  to  5  are to be
treated as having had effect from the beginning of 1 April 2023.

### Interpretation

7

7.1

In this Act—

                  “ estimated surplus ” is to be read in accordance with
subsection (2) ;
“ income ” includes capital amounts but only to the extent that they have
accrued in respect of actual or anticipated capital receipts or the
acquisition of a capital asset;
“ relevant AME matter ”, in relation to an amount of Annually Managed
Expenditure specified in a Scheduled Estimate, means a matter in relation to
which that amount is identified as Annually Managed Expenditure;
“ relevant DEL matter ”, in relation to a Departmental Expenditure Limit
specified in a Scheduled Estimate, means a matter expenditure relating to
which is identified in that Estimate as to be included in the expenditure
which is to be subject to that limit;
“ relevant NBE matter ”, in relation to an amount of Non-Budget Expenditure
specified in a Scheduled Estimate, means a matter in relation to which that
amount is identified as Non-Budget Expenditure;
“ Scheduled Estimates ” means the Estimates set out in the Schedule to this
Act (being the relevant part of Part 1 of each of the main Estimates as agreed
by the House of Commons for the year ending 31 March 2024).

7.2

References in this Act to an amount identified in a Scheduled Estimate as
representing the amount of an estimated surplus are references to an amount
preceded by a minus sign.

7.3

In relation to a Scheduled Estimate for a body listed in  subsection (4) —

7.3.a

the reference in  section 3 (2) (b)  to a net amount authorised subject to a
particular Departmental Expenditure Limit is to be read as a reference to a
net requirement identified in that Estimate as “Departmental Expenditure Limit
equivalent”;

7.3.b

references in this Act to a “relevant DEL matter” are to be read as references
to a matter expenditure relating to which is identified in the Estimate as to
be included in the expenditure which is subject to a net requirement mentioned
in  paragraph (a) ;

7.3.c

the reference in  section 5 (2) (a)  to matters specified in relation to a
particular Departmental Expenditure Limit is to be read as a reference to
matters specified in the Estimate as matters from which income may arise.

7.4

The bodies are—

7.4.a

the House of Commons: Administration;

7.4.b

the National Audit Office;

7.4.c

the Parliamentary Works Grant.

### Short title

8

This Act may be cited as the Supply and Appropriation (Main Estimates) Act
2023.

                 Appropriations for financial year 2023-24

Section 7

  Department of Health and Social Care, 2023-24   Department of Health and
Social Care       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Department of Health and Social Care Departmental Expenditure Limit
151,017,513,000 12,087,800,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 10,880,000,000
105,600,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 169,253,661,000
Total 161,897,513,000 12,193,400,000 169,253,661,000   Departmental
Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:       Revenue
(administration and programme) and capital expenditure of the Department of
Health and Social Care and other designated bodies, including NHS England
(including Integrated Care Boards), NHS Providers, Special Health Authorities,
Executive Non-Departmental Public Bodies, the UK Health Security Agency and
the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency.       Health and
social service expenditure to and on behalf of the NHS including the
settlement of claims for personal injury and clinical negligence, local
authorities and other national bodies.       Local government services, prison
health services, medical, scientific and technical services, services for
disabled persons, education and training, grants to voluntary organisations
and other bodies, information services, breast implant registry, Healthy Start
programme, health promotion activities, research and development and
expenditure incurred in relation to Life sciences.       Governmental response
to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic. This includes, but is not exhaustive:
NHS Test and Trace, personal protective equipment, Covid-19 medicines,
treatments and equipment and the supply, distribution and deployment of
Covid-19 vaccines and associated activities.       Non-Departmental Public
Bodies expenditure on health and social care protection, training and
regulation functions.       Expenditure to charitable trusts and companies
providing financial support and other relief to persons who contracted HIV and
Hepatitis C through receiving NHS treatment.       Forming, investing in or
providing loans or guarantees to companies that will provide facilities or
services to the NHS.       Services provided to or on behalf of devolved
governments and other government departments.       Medical treatment given to
people from the United Kingdom in the European Economic Area and other
countries.       Subsidies and grants to public corporations and local
authorities, payments to local authorities for use in local area agreements.
Official Development Assistance projects and activities. Subscriptions to
international organisations and international and commercial facilitation
relating to healthcare.       Payments for services incurred by other
government departments, including expenditure on behalf of the Department for
Work and Pensions.       Associated depreciation and any other non-cash costs
(including provisions, impairments and impairment of receivables).
Expenditure incurred in relation to the Covid-19 Vaccine Taskforce.
Income arising from:       Charges for accommodation, sales of goods and
services, income generation schemes. Local authorities under joint financing
arrangements. Fines and penalty notices. Medical and dental education levy.
Licensing of software, use of NHS logo, settlement of legal claims, dividends
and interest from loans and investments, intellectual property, research and
development, prescription fraud charges, NHS prescriptions, dental and
ophthalmic fraud charges.       Recoveries from patients in respect of
incorrect claims for eligibility for including NHS treatment and general
ophthalmic services. Payments from manufacturers or suppliers of medicinal
products to control the cost of health service medicines and purchasing and
supply agency arrangements.       Sales of medicines, vaccines, antivenoms,
antitoxins and equipment, premiums applied to the sale of stock.       Income
from the Scottish Government, the Welsh Government, Northern Ireland, Channel
Islands and Isle of Man for services provided for devolved or reserved work.
Provision of policy and advice to other countries and care trusts. Maintenance
of the National Joint Registry, conference and meeting events, prison health
services, contributions to substance misuse funding, use of radio
communication bandwidth.       Income secured by counter fraud services from
all sources.       Administration income from seconded officers, cost of legal
proceedings, staff telephone calls, European fast stream programme. Recoveries
and income from other government departments, recoveries and income from ALBs
(including capital and grants), special health authorities and NHS bodies.
Selling services into wider markets and open government, payment by commercial
tenants in DHSC buildings and compensation income.       Licence fees and
royalties, sales of publications, contributions by members of the public,
insurance claims and social exclusion programmes. Other European Economic Area
countries for NHS treatment of their residents. Income collected for the
immigration health surcharge. Sales of subsidised dried milk. Income from the
European Union.       Contributions from the mobile phone industry, charitable
contributions, refunds from voluntary organisations. Contributions to local
authority grant schemes. Contributions and refunds towards communication
campaigns contracts. Penalty charges, interest and dividends on trading fund
loans.        Income collected on behalf of health innovation and education
clusters.       Income received from the sale of capital assets. Income
received from the disposal of financial assets.        Income associated with
the acquisition of assets.       Income arising from Governmental response to
the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic.       Income arising from activities in
relation to the Covid-19 Vaccine Taskforce and Covid-19 Antiviral Taskforce.
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Revenue
and capital expenditure for hospital financing under Credit Guarantee Finance.
Provisions and other non-cash costs, of the Department of Health and Social
Care and other designated bodies, including NHS England (including Integrated
Care Boards), NHS Providers, Special Health Authorities, Executive Non-
Departmental Public Bodies, the UK Health Security Agency and the Medicines
and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency.       Governmental response to the
coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic.

  Department for Education, 2023-24   Department for Education       Estimate
Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for
capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Department for Education
Departmental Expenditure Limit 85,993,287,000 7,037,910,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure -4,431,618,000 34,428,688,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 110,017,577,000 Total 81,561,669,000 41,466,598,000
110,017,577,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising
from:       Centrally managed spend, grants and/or loans to primary,
secondary, tertiary and international education, apprenticeships and wider
skills institutions, including the purchase, development, protection and
disposal of land and buildings in support of these sectors.       The
provision of financial and other support for students and trainees including
grants, allowances, access funds, loans and their repayment. Loans to students
and support for students through Local Authorities. The cost of sales of the
student loan debt and the cost of servicing the sold student loan debt.
Reimbursement of fees for qualifying European Union students, post graduate
awards, mandatory student awards, childcare and transport support and loans.
Children's services, including early years, childcare and safeguarding,
welfare and young people's services and expenditure incurred in relation to
historical child migrants.       Curriculum, qualifications, and the
inspection regime.       Schools Workforce development and reform.
Expenditure associated with social mobility policy.       Expenditure relating
to the regulation of the social work profession and expenditure related to the
regulation of the teaching profession.       Administering the Teachers'
Pension Scheme (England and Wales), pension costs for voluntary services
overseas (VSO) participants.       Education-related payments, grants, and
loans to organisations in the public, private and other sectors, including
employers, community, voluntary and business support organisations, to
individuals and other government departments, local authorities and the
Devolved Administrations, including expenditure relating to insolvency
resulting in either a restructuring solution, education administration or
closure.       Expenditure relates primarily to England, but in some cases
includes supporting activities in other parts of the United Kingdom and
abroad.       The costs of the Department, its Executive Agencies, and arm's
length bodies (ALBs): the Children's Commissioner, Aggregator Vehicle plc,
Located Ltd, Institute for Apprenticeships, Office for Students, Social Work
England, Student Loans Company Ltd, UK Commissioner for Employment and Skills,
Construction Industry Training Board, Engineering Construction Industry
Training Board and Oak National Academy together with residual costs from ALBs
being closed.       Loan and lease interest payable and the efficient
management and discharge of liabilities falling to the Department.
Capital, recurrent payments and loans and associated non-cash items, including
the impairment cost for student loans.       Expenditure relating to delivery
of Government Guarantee funded policies should they be required.
Activities relating to the sale of income contingent student loans, including
purchase of retention notes as financial instruments and repayments against
the asset because of UK Government Investment activity.       Expenditure
relating to the provision of education in support of the wider Grenfell
recovery efforts.       Expenditure relating to delivery of teacher
assessments and student qualifications including support to other government
departments and Devolved Administrations.       Expenditure relating to policy
innovation and development, and leadership of the cross-government policy
profession.       Governmental response to recovery following the coronavirus
Covid-19 pandemic including the secondment and loan of staff to and from the
Department in support of the response, including loans and recoveries to
support its ALBs.       Acting as the Agent for other government departments
in relation to payments and assurance made in relation to Covid-19 and the
pandemic.       Expenditure and support to other central government
departments in respect of EU Exit.       Revenue and capital expenditure to
support the reclassification of FE colleges, sixth form colleges and
designated institutions in England to central government, including capital
loans and loan interest, grants, recoveries and impairments.           Income
arising from:       Administration and programme income in support of its
objectives including:       The sale of goods and services and royalty
receipts by the department including publications, its Executive Agencies, its
ALBs, and other partner organisations. Sale of research publications. Receipts
from other government departments, the Devolved Administrations, and other
sources (including the EU) in connection with a range of educational,
training, youth support, student finance provision, children and family
programmes with common objectives, and initiatives in the UK and overseas.
Early Intervention Foundation receipts.       Interest receivable relating to
Aggregator Vehicle plc.       Receipts from other government departments
including charges for accommodation and property rental income from
departmental properties and from its ALBs, the European School at Culham,
sales receipts and profits from departmental or ALB properties, equipment, or
other assets (including some repayment of proceeds of sale).       Income
relating to the regulation of the teaching and social work profession.
Income relating to insolvency as a result of education administration.
Sales receipts, and rental income streams from sites originally purchased for
academies and free schools that are not required by the school, penalty income
for missed delivery dates in construction contracts, repayments of grant
overpaid in previous years or where required conditions of grant retention
have not been met, repayments of loans issued to academies, receipts
associated with the closure of departmental ALBs.       International
receipts, Music Manifesto Champion receipts, income from providing shared
services, the receipt of administration fees collected by the Teachers'
Pension Scheme (England and Wales).       Receipts from servicing sold student
loan debt. Receipts from asset sales repayment and default recoveries by banks
in respect of career development loans, receipts for student support, student
loan interest receivable, repayment of working capital loans, receipts from
the European Social Fund to cover departmental programmes, and sponsorship
funding.       Activities relating to the sale of income contingent student
loans, including purchase of retention notes as financial instruments and
repayments against the asset because of UK Government Investment activity.
The general administration receipts of the Department, its executive agencies,
its ALBs, and other partner organisations, including: the recovery of salaries
and associated costs for seconded staff, the disposal of surplus assets,
charges for accommodation, sale of goods and services, and interest from bank
accounts and exchange rate gains and losses.       Income relating to delivery
of teacher assessments and student qualifications including receipts from
other government departments and Devolved Administrations.       Income
relating to policy innovation and development, and leadership of the cross-
government policy profession.       Income and support to other central
government departments relating to support for EU Exit.       Acting as the
Agent for other government departments in relation to income and assurance
made in relation to Covid-19 and the pandemic.       Governmental response to
recovery following the Covid-19 pandemic including the secondment and loan of
staff to and from the Department in support of the response, including loans
and recoveries to support its ALBs.       Income to support the
reclassification of FE colleges, sixth form colleges and designated
institutions in England to central government, including capital repayments
and loan interest, grant income, recoveries, and impairments.
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Take up
and maintenance of Departmental, Executive Agencies' and ALBs' provisions and
associated non-cash items including bad debts, impairments, tax and pension
costs for the Department, Executive Agencies and its ALBs, including
academies, and payment of corporation tax.       The provision of financial
and other support for students and trainees including grants, allowances,
access funds, loans and their repayment, the resource consequences of loans to
students, support for students through local authorities, the cost of sales of
the student loan debt, and education maintenance allowances and loans.
Governmental response to recovery following the Covid-19 pandemic including
the secondment and loan of staff to and from the Department in support of the
response, including loans and recoveries to support its ALBs.       Acting as
the Agent for other government departments in relation to payments and
assurance made in relation to Covid-19 and the pandemic.       Revenue and
capital expenditure to support the reclassification of FE colleges, sixth form
colleges and designated institutions in England to central government,
including non-cash items for provisions, interest, impairment and other
expenditure associated with loans.           Income arising from:
Repayment of student loans, including of principal and interest.
Receipts and levies from the Construction Industry Training Board and the
Engineering Construction Industry Training Board.       Receipts from asset
sales.       Activities relating to the sale of income contingent student
loans, including purchase of retention notes as financial instruments and
repayments against the asset because of UK Government Investment activity.
Governmental response to recovery following the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic
including the secondment and loan of staff to and from the Department in
support of the response, including loans and recoveries to support its ALBs.
Acting as the Agent for other government departments in relation to payments
and assurance made in relation to Covid-19 and the pandemic.       Income to
support the reclassification of FE colleges, sixth form colleges and
designated institutions in England to central government, including non-cash
items for provisions, interest, impairment and other expenditure associated
with loans.

  Home Office, 2023-24   Home Office       Estimate Net resources authorised
for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Home Office Departmental Expenditure Limit
14,607,973,000 931,299,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 2,717,720,000 0 Non-
budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 18,600,000,000 Total 17,325,693,000
931,299,000 18,600,000,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:       Control of immigration and nationality;
refugees (including the provision of loans) and Voluntary and Community Sector
refugee organisations; support for asylum seekers; work permits.
Safeguarding children and vulnerable adults including reducing and preventing
child trafficking and modern slavery; registration of forensic practitioners;
grants to, and other expenditure on behalf of associated entities.
Securing the UK border and for controlling migration of people and goods at
ports and airports across the UK and overseas.       Identity management;
passports.       Emergency planning and services; counter-terrorism and
intelligence.       Responsibility for the fire and rescue services; financial
support to Local Authorities and Fire and Rescue Authorities; emergency
assistance; improvement, transformation and efficiency; intervention action
and capacity building in local authorities; Private Finance Initiative Special
Grant.       Police resource and capital expenditure; crime reduction and
prevention; firearms compensation and related matters; other services related
to crime; tackling drug abuse.       Expenditure arising from the programme to
reform the proceeds of crime and terrorism financing “suspicious activity
reporting” regime.       Immigration Health Surcharge and Immigration Skills
Charge.       Net spending by Arm's Length Bodies (Independent Office for
Police Conduct, Security Industry Authority, Office of the Immigration
Services Commissioner, College of Policing, Gangmasters Labour Abuse Authority
and the Disclosure and Barring Service). Payments of grant and grant-in-aid to
other organisations promoting Home Office objectives; support to local
authorities including Area Based Grants; payments to other Government
departments; the administration and operation of the department;  and other
non-cash items.           Income arising from:       Control of immigration
and nationality; additional or special immigration services; work permits;
fees, fines and penalties arising from relevant Home Office legislation.
Identity management and data protection; passports and certificates.
Emergency planning and services; counter-terrorism work, and intelligence.
Responsibility for and inspections of crown premises and emergency services.
Cyber-crime. Contributions for Police IT services.       Issue of licences and
certificates; crime reduction and prevention; proceeds of crime; training and
advisory services.       Immigration Health Surcharge and Immigration Skills
Charge.       Contributions towards grant programmes from third parties, other
Government departments and the Devolved Administrations, the European Union,
other Governments; the administration and operation of the department
(including the sale and hire of assets).             Annually Managed
Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Police Forces and Fire and
Rescue Services pensions; and other non-cash items.

  National Crime Agency, 2023-24   National Crime Agency       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   National Crime Agency Departmental
Expenditure Limit 633,600,000 105,871,000 Annually Managed Expenditure
50,000,000 350,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 840,000,000
Total 683,600,000 106,221,000 840,000,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:       UK and overseas activity including but not
limited to:       Principal function - Crime Reduction:       Securing that
efficient and effective activities to combat serious and organised crime are
carried out including by:       Investigating, prosecuting, preventing and
disrupting people engaged in serious and organised crime.        Other
expenditure related to tackling crime to support the objectives of the
National Crime Agency.       Payment of grants to partners to promote and
deliver National Crime Agency objectives; and the administration and operation
of the department, its enabling functions and non-cash items.
Expenditure including: fees to Counsel and outside accountants, witness
expenses, use of information technology to improve presentation of evidence,
other investigation, prosecution and litigation costs, defendants' costs, and
damages ordered by the court to be paid by the NCA, including payments made as
a result of asset recovery activity to individuals, charities, companies,
other Government Departments, the Devolved Administrations, the European Union
and other Governments. All other costs associated with asset recovery through
Criminal and Civil courts and the holding and safeguarding of third party
assets.       Work relating to protection of witnesses and victims or
potential victims of crime.       Principal function - Criminal Intelligence:
Gathering, storing, processing, analysing, and disseminating information that
is relevant to any of the following:       Intelligence activities to combat
serious and organised crime, activities to combat any other kind of crime and
exploitation proceeds investigations, exploitation proceeds orders and
applications for such orders.       NCA's response to the Serious and
Organised Crime Strategy:       Pursue: prosecute and disrupt people engaged
in serious and organised criminality.       Prevent: prevent people from
engaging in serious and organised crime.       Protect: increase protection
against serious and organised crime.       Prepare: reduce the impact of this
criminality where it takes place.       Work on research and development to
increase knowledge and the furtherance of the NCA's strategy and the law
enforcement family.       For provision of training to both internal and
external parties.       Activity to ensure the effective operation of the
organisation after exiting the European Union including but not limited to
contingency planning, amending information systems, implementation of new
systems and processes and surge staff to new deployments as required.
Expenditure to support, protect and enable the NCA and its officers and
national and local government and law enforcement organisations during the
Covid-19 pandemic or other new threats.       Work in support of HM Government
plans for negotiation and implementation of new deals with other countries
after exiting the European Union.       Expenditure on goods and services to
enable the reduction of the carbon footprint of the organisation.       The
receipt or deployment of resources or people to other government departments
to mitigate industrial action.           Income arising from:       UK and
overseas activity including but not limited to:       Training and
accreditation fees;       Cyber Crime Prevention;       Asset Recovery
Incentivisation Scheme;       Safeguarding children;       External
contributions towards the NCA's own and also NCA led and managed crime
reduction activities and grant programmes, from third parties including other
Government departments, the Devolved Administrations, the European Union and
other Governments. The administration and operation of the department
(including the sale and hire of assets, charges such as the use of
intellectual property, insurance claims and legal costs recovered).
External contributions for the provision of information to third parties.
Recovery of income awarded to the NCA in court or by negotiation with third
parties, receipts of service provided by the NCA and receipts from any asset
recovery activity, including the recovery of VAT expenditure where approved to
do so.       From providing assistance to other law enforcement and government
bodies.       Recovery of expenditure incurred by NCA enabling capability
functions that established IT, recruitment of staff, financial and other
enabling requirements from third parties who provide the agency with funds to
deliver specific and mutually agreed objectives.       Income relating to
costs incurred to ensure the effective operation of the organisation after
exiting the European Union including but not limited to contingency planning,
amending information systems, implementation of new systems and processes and
surging staff to new deployments as required.       Recovery of costs incurred
for work in support of HM Government plans for a negotiation and
implementation of new deals with other countries after exiting the European
Union.       Funds from other Government departments to enable the
organisation to reduce its carbon footprint.       Income relating to costs
and pressures in relation to Covid-19 or other new threats.       The receipt
or deployment of resources or people to other government departments to
mitigate industrial action.             Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       Pension and all other provisions and other
non-cash items.

  Ministry of Justice, 2023-24   Ministry of Justice       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Ministry of Justice Departmental
Expenditure Limit 10,725,504,000 2,307,501,000 Annually Managed Expenditure
481,568,000 23,303,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement
12,432,382,000 Total 11,207,072,000 2,330,804,000 12,432,382,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:
Administration of the Ministry of Justice, its Agencies, Arm's Length Bodies
(ALBs) and associated offices including the Office of the Accountant General;
administration of judicial pay and of the Judicial Pensions Scheme.
Policy and activities relating to the justice system including: civil, family
and criminal justice; administrative justice (e.g. tribunals policy work),
legal aid and legal support; support for victims and witnesses; miscarriages
of justice; judicial and legal services policy.       Policy and activities
related to coroner, burial and cremation services including the administration
of the Children's Funeral Fund.       Policy and activities relating to
sentencing and offender reform, including prison, probation and youth justice;
reducing reoffending; support for youth, women and vulnerable offenders;
commissioning of prison, probation, and youth custody services including
safety and security.       Policy and activities relating to human rights,
both domestic and in relation to the UK's international obligations;
management of the Government's constitutional relationship with the Crown
Dependencies; European and international business in the justice field
including costs arising from the UK's exit from the European Union.
Payments in respect of public inquests and inquiries; fee refund schemes;
grants and other payments to Police and Crime Commissioners, local
authorities, other justice system partners, support providers and public
sector bodies.       Compensation to judicial office holders, including
payments in lieu of pension where these cannot be met by the Judicial Pensions
Scheme.       Expenditure by the following Executive Agencies: His Majesty's
Prison and Probation Service; His Majesty's Courts and Tribunals Service
including the Court of Protection; the Office of the Public Guardian; the
Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority and the Legal Aid Agency, including
costs paid from central funds.       Net expenditure by the following
executive ALBs: Criminal Cases Review Commission; Children and Family Court
Advisory and Support Service; Independent Monitoring Authority for the
Citizens' Rights Agreements, Judicial Appointments Commission; Legal Services
Board; Office for Legal Complaints; Parole Board; Youth Justice Board; Oasis
Restore Trust and Gov Facility Services Limited.       Expenditure of advisory
ALBs on inspectorates, monitoring boards, lay observers, the UK National
Preventive Mechanism, the Prisons and Probation Ombudsman, Judicial
Appointments and Conduct Ombudsman; support for the judiciary and other
monitoring and advisory activities; the Law Commission, the Office of the
Official Solicitor and the Public Trustee; the Sentencing Council for England
and Wales and the Victims' Commissioner.       Capital, depreciation and other
non-cash costs falling in DEL.           Income arising from:       Income
related to the activities of His Majesty's Courts and Tribunals Service,
including Civil and Family Court fee income; Tribunals fee income; Probate fee
income.       Fine income, including retention of legacy criminal court
charging income; receipts relating to the asset recovery incentive scheme;
receipts from the Victims Surcharge; receipts retained in relation to the
costs of fine enforcement and pre-1990 loan charge debt payments.       Income
related to the activities of His Majesty's Prison and Probation Service,
including share of gross profits from sales and services; prisoners' earnings
and contributions related to damage to property; receipts from external
organisations, subsidies and sales; receipts from local authorities for secure
remand places.       Fees charged by the Public Trustee, Office of the Public
Guardian and Court of Protection.       Income related to the activities of
the Legal Aid Agency including client contributions, recoveries, interest and
grants from other third parties.       Repayment of criminal injuries
compensation; contributions from other Government Departments towards the
costs of inquests and inquiries.       Recoveries from the Debt Management
Office for the cost of administering funds in court; from investment managers
for the cost of administering the Lord Chancellor's Strategic Investment
Board; for research and recommendation work undertaken by the Law Commission;
recoveries by the Office of the Official Solicitor.       Legal services
regulation; judicial superannuation contributions and receipts from the
Judicial Pensions Scheme supply estimate for administrative costs.
Receipts from: the European Commission; Royal Licences; Crown Office fees;
Design 102 activities; the New Deal Scheme and wider markets initiatives; the
Scottish Government, Northern Ireland Executive and the Welsh Government;
National Insurance Fund and Scottish Criminal Injuries Compensation Appeals
Panel; the Education and Skills Funding Agency; the Heritage Lottery Fund and
Sport England.       The general administration receipts of the Department and
its executive agencies, including the recovery of salaries, the disposal of
capital assets, charges for accommodation, sale of goods and services, and
interest from bank accounts; other charges and receipts received from other
Government Departments.             Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       Maintenance of Departmental, Executive
Agencies and ALBs' provisions and other non-cash items including bad debts,
impairments, tax and pension costs and corporation tax.       Additional
Universal Credit expenditure associated with the early release of prisoners.

  Crown Prosecution Service, 2023-24   Crown Prosecution Service
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Crown
Prosecution Service Departmental Expenditure Limit 773,584,000 28,800,000
Annually Managed Expenditure 5,950,000 2,859,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net
Cash Requirement 783,791,000 Total 779,534,000 31,659,000 783,791,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:
Administrative, operational, and capital costs incurred by the CPS in
prosecuting criminal cases in England and Wales. These costs include
prosecution costs, costs of confiscating the proceeds of crime and capacity
building in the Criminal Justice System along with staff costs, the hire of
agents, support of voluntary sector organisations within the Criminal Justice
System and associated depreciation and any non-cash costs falling in DEL.
Income arising from:       The CPS has two main sources of income, Costs
awarded to CPS in court and the Asset Recovery Incentivisation Scheme.
Additional to this we receive income from the following sources, revenue from
contract with customers, refund of expenditure for seconded staff,
collaborative working with partner organisations and other administrative
income.             Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising
from:       Write-offs and changes in allowance for irrecoverable debts,
provisions and other non-cash costs falling in AME.

  Serious Fraud Office, 2023-24   Serious Fraud Office       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Serious Fraud Office Departmental
Expenditure Limit 58,299,000 2,900,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-
budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 58,474,000 Total 58,299,000
2,900,000 58,474,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure
arising from:       Administration of The Serious Fraud Office (SFO) including
staff costs, capital and operational costs, fees to counsel and outside
accountants, witness expenses, use of information technology to analyse and
review documents and improve the presentation of evidence, other
investigation, prosecution and litigation costs, defendants' costs and damages
ordered to be paid by the SFO.       Providing advice and assistance to
support the United Kingdom's exit from the EU: payments made as a result of
asset recovery schemes and deferred prosecution agreements and associated non-
cash costs falling in DEL.           Income arising from:       Recovery of
income awarded to the SFO in court; receipts for services provided by the SFO
and receipts from any asset recovery schemes or deferred prosecution
agreements.

  HM Procurator General and Treasury Solicitor, 2023-24   HM Procurator
General and Treasury Solicitor       Estimate Net resources authorised for
current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   HM Procurator General and Treasury Solicitor
Departmental Expenditure Limit 11,703,000 2,000,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 15,301,000 Total
11,703,000 2,000,000 15,301,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:       Administration of HM Procurator General and
Treasury Solicitor's Department comprising the Government Legal Department,
the Attorney General's Office and HM Crown Prosecution Service Inspectorate
and costs and fees for providing legal and other services, and non-cash items
in DEL. Includes programme costs associated with continuing work on EU Exit
Transition.           Income arising from:       Recovery of costs from other
government departments and associated bodies including costs recovered for
legal and administrative services provided and receipts from secondments of
staff; favourable costs awarded; cost awards made by the courts in favour of
the Attorney General; charges for Bona Vacantia work; recovery of costs from
tenants in jointly occupied buildings; income in relation to the Government
Legal Service operation; subscription services; photocopying services;
receipts from sales of fixed assets and non-capital items; rent and rate
rebates; recovery of old debts; receipts from staff; income from ICT services
and other administrative income.

  Ministry of Defence, 2023-24   Ministry of Defence       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Ministry of Defence Departmental
Expenditure Limit 41,010,971,000 18,337,938,000 Annually Managed Expenditure
1,928,087,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 50,542,727,000
Total 42,939,058,000 18,337,938,000 50,542,727,000   Departmental Expenditure
Limit         Expenditure arising from:       Ongoing military commitments,
including identifying and countering the threat of terrorist attack on the UK
Mainland and maintaining the integrity of UK waters and airspace. Contributing
to the community, including through the administration of cadet forces, costs
of assistance to other Government Departments and civil agencies. Defence
engagement and delivery of agreed goods in support of wider British interests.
Delivering military capability, including the full costs of front line troops
including attributed costs of logistical, infrastructure and personnel support
costs. Research on the equipment and non-equipment programme. Provision of
financial interventions to the private and charitable sector in support of
delivery of departmental outputs. To support Ministers and Parliament.
Undertake strategic management and corporate services. Pensions and other
payments/allowances for disablement or death arising out of war or service in
the Armed Forces after 2 September 1939. Awards to surviving members of
British groups held prisoner by the Japanese during the Second World War (Far
Eastern Prisoners of War) or their surviving spouse. Pensions and other
payments in respect of service in the Armed Forces at other times, excluding
claims under the Armed Forces Compensation Scheme and Armed Forces pension
scheme.       Personnel costs of the Armed Forces and their Reserves, Cadet
forces. Personnel costs of Defence Ministers, civilian staff employed by the
Ministry of Defence and contractors working on Defence contracts. Procurement
of Defence assets including the development and production of equipment and
weapon systems for the Armed Forces. Support to the nuclear warhead and
fissile material programme.       Research by contract. Wider procurement
services including those on repayment terms, purchases for sale abroad,
purchases for gifting abroad, contractor costs including on redundancy.
The repair, maintenance, stores, support and supply services for Defence
including associated capital facilities and works, plant and machinery.
Movements of Defence assets including the contracting for vehicles (to include
chartering of ships, trains and planes), and the wider logistic services for
the Armed Forces and supporting groups.       Land and buildings facilities
management and works services. Services provided by other Government
Departments. Sundry services, subscriptions, grants, including support to
Armed Forces charities and other payments, assistance to Foreign and
Commonwealth Governments for defence-related purposes.       UK youth
community projects. Spending on, including set-up costs and loans to, Trading
Funds Arm's Length Bodies and other Designated Defence Bodies.       In
support of Military operations over and above the costs of maintaining the
units involved at their normal state of readiness. The net additional
programme costs for early warning, crisis management, conflict resolution,
humanitarian efforts, peace-making, peace-keeping and peace-building
activities in other parts of the world. The net additional costs of associated
strengthening of international regional systems through, but not exclusive of,
capacity-building and other stabilisation activities.       Personnel costs of
the Armed Forces and their Reserves includes provision for Regular Naval and
Marine Services to a number not exceeding 39,550; provision for the Regular
Army Service to a number not exceeding 102,250; provision for Regular Air
Force Service to a number not exceeding 36,500; and provision for Officers,
Men and Women in the Reserve Forces not exceeding the numbers specified in
respect of each Reserve Force for the purposes of Parts 1, 3, 4 and 5 of the
Reserve Forces Act 1996 in House of Commons paper No. 1036 of Session 2022-23.
Income arising from:       Provision of services to Foreign Governments and
Other Government Departments. Payments for services provided by Trading Funds,
Arm's Length Bodies and other designated Defence Bodies. Dividends, interest
and loan repayments from Trading Funds, Arm's Length Bodies and other
designated Defence Bodies. Sale of assets. Recovery of costs from personnel.
Rent for use of Ministry of Defence property and miscellaneous receipts.
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       The
creation and revaluation of provisions; impairments due to the revaluation of
assets, unforeseen obsolescence and losses caused by catastrophic events. Bad
debts and foreign exchange gains and losses.       Costs associated with
decommissioning.

  Security and Intelligence Agencies, 2023-24   Security and Intelligence
Agencies       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Security and Intelligence Agencies Departmental Expenditure Limit
3,518,390,000 1,283,019,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 38,277,000 2,221,000
Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 4,328,245,000 Total
3,556,667,000 1,285,240,000 4,328,245,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:       Administration and operational costs, research
and development works, equipment and other payments, and associated
depreciation and any other non-cash costs falling in DEL.           Income
arising from:       The sale of services to other government departments, the
recovery of costs of staff on loan, recovery from staff for miscellaneous
items and certain other services. The sale of fixed assets, freehold interest
and land.             Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising
from:       Provisions and other non-cash items.

  Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, 2023-24   Foreign,
Commonwealth and Development Office       Estimate Net resources authorised
for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office
Departmental Expenditure Limit 7,743,984,000 3,640,820,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 418,768,000 280,000,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 11,366,055,000 Total 8,162,752,000 3,920,820,000 11,366,055,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:
Development and humanitarian assistance under the International Development
Act 2002 through financial and technical assistance to governments,
institutions, voluntary agencies and individuals for activities including:
strengthening global peace, security and governance; strengthening resilience
and response to crisis; promoting global prosperity; tackling extreme poverty
and helping the world's most vulnerable; delivering value for money and
delivery efficiency in FCDO; continued assistance to UK  Overseas Territories;
costs relating to investments in public corporations and shareholdings in
private sector companies.       Wilton Park Executive Agency; the British
Council; BBC World Service; spending by ALBs: Commonwealth Scholarship
Commission (CSC) on scholarships to individuals from Commonwealth countries;
Independent Commission for Aid Impact (ICAI), an advisory ALB which provides
independent scrutiny of UK Aid in order to promote the delivery of value for
money for British taxpayers and the maximisation of the impact of aid;
Westminster Foundation for Democracy; Great Britain-China Centre and the
Marshall Aid Commemoration Commission.       Diplomacy; hospitality and
facilities; international organisations; information services; scholarships
and sponsored visits; consular assistance; special payments and assistance;
programmes supporting foreign policy objectives including human rights, good
governance, international security, the fight against the illicit drug trade
and promoting our prosperity.       Governmental response to the coronavirus
Covid-19 pandemic.       Conflict prevention, early warning, crisis
management, conflict resolution/peace-making, peace-keeping and peace-building
activity and associated strengthening of international and regional systems
and capacity.       Operational and legal costs, related capital expenditure,
administration costs and associated depreciation and other non-cash costs
falling in DEL.           Income arising from:       Capital repayments and
receipt of interest on development assistance and budget support loans;
management fees relating to loan guarantees; refunds of payments made under UK
guarantees to the European Investment Bank; recoveries from other government
departments; recovery of advances from procurement agents.       Receipts for
seconded officers and country based staff; rental income; recoveries from
staff for use of official vehicles; refund of rental and rates payments; rent
uplifts and sub-letting; abatements and settlement of legal cases; the sale of
information material; sales of surplus property, material and equipment;
legalisation fees collected at both home and abroad; telephone and postage
recoveries; medical scheme recoveries, bank interest and sundry receipts;
repayment by locally engaged staff of loans for car purchase and medical and
other assistance.       Other Government Departments for the FCDO platform;
grants; receipts from overseas governments and other third parties in respect
of programme funds and receipts from overseas governments in respect of
bilateral country and sector programmes.       Visa and passport services
provided at consular offices; repayments of sums advanced to distressed
British Nationals.       Wilton Park Executive Agency receipts from customers
for running costs, sales and rents; Hospitality Section, Conference and Visits
Group; Lancaster House receipts.       Income from debentures/shares issued to
FCDO by CDC Group plc and other private sector entities; and other income in
relation to capital assets; interest and dividends from public corporations;
sales into wider markets, use of assets and sponsorships.             Annually
Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Non-cash movements
in provisions including contributions to International Finance Facility for
Immunisation (IFFIm) and Advanced Market Commitments (AMC); change in fair
value of financial instruments and other non-cash costs falling in AME; the
re-capitalisation of CDC Group plc.       The refund of certain taxes and
duties paid by certain foreign and commonwealth governments.           Income
arising from:       Non-cash accounting adjustments on the loan portfolio.

  Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities, 2023-24   Department
for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities       Estimate Net resources
authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes
Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Department for Levelling Up, Housing and
Communities Departmental Expenditure Limit - Housing and Communities
3,030,829,000 7,193,948,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit - Local Government
14,624,638,000 0 Annually Managed Expenditure 19,875,251,000 0 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 31,469,777,000 Total 37,530,718,000
7,193,948,000 31,469,777,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit - Housing and
Communities         Expenditure arising from:       Increasing the supply of
affordable housing and supporting home ownership and diversifying the housing
market; policies and activities regulating and helping people access the
housing market, whether they are renting or looking to buy; policies to
improve housing quality; supporting infrastructure and planning programmes
including policy; buying, remediating and selling land for housing and
economic development; preventing homelessness, and supporting people to stay
in their homes and supporting those already homeless.       Supporting local
economies across the United Kingdom to boost productivity and deliver
inclusive growth for all our communities, cultural institutions and society in
general; economic growth and devolving powers and responsibilities at a local
level; European Union (EU) structural funds; UK Holocaust Memorial project.
Supporting local authorities and communities; bringing them together;
emergency assistance and financial support to local authorities and
communities; encouraging race, gender and faith equality; helping support
troubled families and victims of domestic violence and child sexual
exploitation; tackling extremism and promoting cohesive communities; Gypsy and
Traveller policy.       Supporting effective local government to deliver
public services to local people, driving efficiencies and transformation;
encouraging action at neighbourhood level; legacy and historic programmes
previously run by the Department including payments to the Valuation Office
Agency; research and development programmes; supporting the effective
functioning of the local audit system.       Responsibility for keeping the
Grenfell Tower site safe and secure until a decision is made about its future.
Supporting residents and victims of the Grenfell fire and engaging with the
Grenfell Tower Memorial Commission.       Delivery of the Building Safety
portfolio through supporting and monitoring the rectification of safety issues
relating to buildings and enforcement by local regulators; reviewing the
current building safety system and implementing changes to that system as they
are required; delivery of energy performance of buildings regime. UK-wide
delivery of insurance products to rectify building safety issues and a
National Regulator for Construction Products, and the delivery of a new
Building Safety Regulator for England along with training and recruitment of
local regulators.       Exiting the EU and net spending by Arm's Length Bodies
(ALBs) and public corporations, including Homes England.       Expenditure
relating to any of the above areas in the form of: equity investment, or
making loans through advances of principal (financial transactions); using a
payment by results mechanism; the creation of liabilities and expenditure
related to a financial guarantee or similar financial instrument given by the
Department; providing grant funding to charities; providing funding through
endowments as laid out in Managing Public Money; social investment models;
purchase and management of exchange rate contracts to hedge exposure risk;
financial transactions devolved to and delivered by local authorities.
Administration of the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities,
its ALBs, and associated offices, ensuring that they deliver on the
Department's objectives.       Administration and operation of the Department
in connection with maintaining the integrity of the Union, and sustaining a
flourishing democracy.           Income arising from:       Increasing the
supply of affordable housing and supporting home ownership and diversifying
the housing market; policies and activities regulating and helping people
access the housing market, buying and selling land for housing and economic
development; capital pooled housing receipts; planning programmes and policy.
Supporting local economies across the country to boost productivity and
deliver inclusive growth for all our communities and economic growth; EU
structural funds and European Regional Development Fund programme; city deals.
Supporting effective local government to deliver public services to local
people, driving efficiencies and transformation; supporting local authorities;
disabled facilities grant; legacy and historic programmes previously run by
the Department; research and development programmes.       Exiting the EU and
net spending by ALBs and public corporations, including Homes England.
Delivery of the Building Safety portfolio and energy performance regime.
Income relating to any of the above areas in the form of: equity investment,
or making loans through advances of principal (financial transactions); using
a payment by results mechanism; fees and charges including by ALBs; creation
of liabilities and expenditure related to a financial guarantee or similar
financial instrument given by the Department; purchase and management of
exchange rate contracts to hedge exposure risk; financial transactions
devolved to and delivered by local authorities.       Administration of the
Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities, its ALBs, and associated
offices, ensuring that they deliver on the Department's objectives and any
activities listed in the expenditure section.       Philanthropic donations
towards the construction and management of the Holocaust Memorial and Learning
Centre.       Deposits forfeited by candidates in an election.       Insurance
schemes.           Departmental Expenditure Limit - Local Government
Expenditure arising from:       Supporting effective local government to
deliver public services to local people.       Financial support to local
authorities and specified bodies including grant payments; including revenue
support grant, business rates retention including transitional relief;
business rate relief measures and Covid-19 measures.       Supporting social
care and independent living; local government devolved powers.
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Debt
payments relating to housing stock; charges on financial products' repayments
of excess contributions made by local authorities; provision for future
liabilities, impairments, and exchange rate movements including on financial
instruments (including guarantees); business rates retention; hedging.
Supporting effective local government to deliver public services to local
people and net spending by our ALBs and other public bodies not classified as
ALBs and setting up of new Development Corporations.       Movements arising
from pension schemes of the Department and its ALBs; other public bodies not
classified as ALBs.       Supporting communities to respond and recover from
Covid-19.           Income arising from:       Supporting effective local
government to deliver public services to local people.

  Department for Culture, Media and Sport, 2023-24   Department for Culture,
Media and Sport       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes
Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Department for Culture, Media and Sport Departmental Expenditure Limit
1,685,570,000 662,345,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 4,374,043,000
1,209,267,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 6,017,267,000
Total 6,059,613,000 1,871,612,000 6,017,267,000   Departmental Expenditure
Limit         Expenditure arising from:       Administration, operating and
legal costs of the Department and grants to other government departments. Net
spending and sponsorship of Arm's Length Bodies (ALBs), sponsored bodies and
associated offices.       Delivery of Covid-19 response activities for
Culture, Media and Sport sectors, including loan book management and insurance
schemes.       Research, development and surveys. Funding for UK membership of
various international organisations.       The closure or restructure of
organisations and legal cases. Management of overseas development funding for
cultural protection.       Support for the cultural and heritage sectors,
libraries, archive institutions, UK City of Culture programme and the wider
visitor economy. The Government Indemnity Scheme, Blythe House programme and
legacy relating to Unboxed: Creativity in the UK. Royal Palaces, Royal Parks,
national heritage and historic buildings, ancient monuments and sites, Listed
Places of Worship schemes, memorials and ceremonial occasions, Government Art
Collection.       Promoting trade, inward investment and global engagement.
Investment in elite and community/grassroots sport and facilities. Delivery of
2012 Olympic and Paralympic games legacy, Commonwealth Games 2022 legacy and
related programmes. Bidding for and staging of major sporting events.
Expenditure associated with ensuring that commercial gambling is socially
responsible and that the National Lottery and society lotteries are
effectively regulated.       Sponsorship of and support for the creative
industries. Support for broadcasting, radio, journalism, gambling, film and
video licensing, the Gambling Commission and regulatory regimes and schemes.
Building a stronger civil society through a range of public, private and civil
society partners, and increasing and improving services, facilities and
positive activities for young people; ensuring a robust legal and regulatory
framework for charities; maximising sustainable income streams, and providing
support into civil society.       Associated non-cash costs in DEL.
Income arising from:       Proceeds from the sale of properties, assets and
the early release of office leases, fees and charges for licences and receipts
from concessionaires and sponsors, fees for provision of corporate and
technology services, repayment of grants, fees charged for Subject Access
Requests and data protection enquiries and repayment of loan principal and
related interest.       Other government departments, ALBs, devolved
administrations, local authorities, and the private sector.       Covid-19
response activities for Culture, Media and Sport sectors.       Government Art
Collection, recovery of commemorative and ceremonial costs, recovery of costs
for repairs to listed buildings.       Cultural objects of significance
received under the Cultural Gifts scheme and passed to the Acceptance in Lieu
panel.       The National Lottery Distribution Fund, National Lottery
operator's licence fees and recoveries from the issue of licensing
certificates.       The legacy of the Olympic and Paralympic Games 2012,
Commonwealth Games 2022, Unboxed:       Creativity in the UK and related
programmes.       Voluntary donations to fund a new Queen's Award for
Voluntary Service operating system.             Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       Funding the BBC, Channel Four, S4C and
regulators sponsored by the department.       Provisions, impairments and
other AME expenditure from DCMS and its sponsored bodies.       National
Lottery grants made by the Lottery Distributing Bodies.       Associated AME
non-cash costs.

  Department for Science, Innovation and Technology, 2023-24   Department for
Science, Innovation and Technology       Estimate Net resources authorised for
current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Department for Science, Innovation and Technology
Departmental Expenditure Limit 563,233,000 13,082,582,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 11,025,853,000 2,480,000,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 16,497,582,000 Total 11,589,086,000 15,562,582,000 16,497,582,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:
Activities of the Geospatial Commission.       Increasing science and research
excellence in the United Kingdom and maximising its contribution to society.
Support for space related programmes.       The payment of subscriptions and
contributions to international organisations and fulfilment of international
treaty obligations.       Support for the activities of the Position,
Navigation and Timing (PNT) Office.       Making payments to local authorities
in respect of Local Area Agreements and New Burdens responsibilities.
Activities of UK Government Investments on behalf of the Department.       The
efficient management and discharge of liabilities falling to the Department
and its partner organisations.       The management of the Government's
shareholder interest in the portfolio of commercial businesses wholly or
partly owned by Government; providing financial assistance to public
corporations, and trading funds.       Specialist support services, staff
management and development; legal costs; other departmental administration and
non-cash costs; payments towards the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority
Combined Pension Scheme deficit; exchange risk and other guarantee losses;
publicity, promotion, publications, knowledge sharing initiatives and
departmental research and development; surveys, monitoring, statistics, advice
and consultancies; management of asset sales; contributions to fund cross
government initiatives and grants to other government departments; payments to
HM Treasury towards the cost of Infrastructure UK.       Expenditure arising
from the UK's departure from the European Union.       Governmental response
to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic.       Grants to local authorities.
Funding organisations supporting departmental objectives, including the
department's executive agencies and arm's length bodies and their subsidiaries
and associated offices.       Support for high-risk projects with potential
for transformative change through the Advanced Research and Invention Agency
(ARIA), including set up costs.       Management of overseas development
funding for digital development.       Delivery and sponsorship of digital
infrastructure and telecommunications, including Building Digital UK delivery.
Sponsorship and support of the digital economy including developing a pro-
innovation regulatory regime for AI.       The enablement of the use of secure
digital identity products across the UK economy. The delivery of certain
elements of the National Cyber Security Strategy and responsibilities
concerning the security and resilience of the UK telecoms sector, the UK
Network and Information Systems Regulations.       Development of policy and
legislation to establish a new pro-competition regulatory regime for digital
markets.       International activity to further the government's digital
policy objectives.       The development of, and initiatives to increase UK
contribution to the development of technical digital standards. Tackling
harmful content online, counter misinformation and disinformation.
Development and implementation of policy, including economic security policy,
in relation to digital and emerging technologies.       Development of data
policy for the economy, science, research as well as society and security,
including the National Data Strategy. Work to enable trustworthy data
innovation in the public and private sector.           Income arising from:
Receipts from other Government Departments, arm's length bodies and devolved
administrations.       Receipts from statutory regulators in respect of
expenses related to levies from industry.       Receipts from licences and
levies; dividends; equity withdrawals; interest on loans and loan repayments
from the Ordnance Survey, Met Office, UK Intellectual Property Office and
National Physical Laboratory.       Income from investments; receipts from
financial investments made by UK Research and Innovation; repayment of loans
and investments; repayment of capital grants; repayments of grants and
contributions; receipts from asset sales.       European Fast Stream receipts;
repayment of working capital loans; receipts from outside organisations in
respect of advertising and publicity activities and materials; sale of
research publications; receipts from the European Social Fund to cover
departmental programmes; sponsorship funding.       Receipts and profit from
the sale of surplus land, buildings and equipment; rental income and
repayments including from three domestic properties on the estate of the
European School of Culture at Culham, Oxfordshire and from the National
Physical Laboratory. Receipts associated with the closure of Partner
Organisations.       Receipts from LifeArc/MRC Technology, the Ufi Charitable
Trust, and subsidiaries and shares in joint ventures of UK Research and
Innovation, and other partner organisations, the public weather service and
mapping services.       General administration receipts of the Department, its
executive agencies, its arm's length bodies, and other partner organisations,
including: the recovery of salaries and associated costs for seconded staff;
sale of goods and services; HMRC receipts arising from the Research and
Development Expenditure Credit; and interest from bank accounts and exchange
rate gains and losses.       Income relating to legal services, consultancy,
publications, public enquiries, information, central services; occupancy
charge; administrative and professional services; EU receipts; refund of input
VAT not claimed in previous years on departmental expenditure; fees for
services provided for energy resilience purposes; interest payments; non-cash
income.       Activities of UK Government Investments on behalf of the
Department.       Contributions from other organisations to cover the cost of
activities they have agreed to fund in total or in part.       Proceeds from
the sale of properties, assets and the early release of office leases, fees
and charges for licences and receipts from concessionaires and sponsors, fees
for provision of corporate and technology services, repayment of grants, fees
charged for Subject Access Requests and data protection enquiries and
repayment of loan principal and related interest. Fees charged to data
controllers under data protection legislation and regulations. Fines and
penalties collected by the ICO under legislation that it regulates.
Receipts from local authorities, and the private sector.       The sale of
radio spectrum and contributions from other government departments toward the
costs of joint schemes.             Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       The efficient management and discharge of
liabilities falling to the Department and its partner organisations.       Bad
debts, impairments and provisions; other non-cash items.       Departmental
administration; financial guarantee schemes; regional investment and
programmes; enterprise for small and medium firms; provision of support for
business, including support for specific industries; support for innovation
and research activity; miscellaneous programmes.       Governmental response
to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic.       The management of asset sales.
Payment of corporation tax.       Contributions to partner organisations'
pension schemes, such as the Research Councils' Pension Scheme.
Activities of UK Government Investments on behalf of the Department.       The
expenditure of The NESTA Trust.       Impairment of loans and investments;
Exchange rate gains and losses.

  Department for Transport, 2023-24   Department for Transport       Estimate
Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for
capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Department for Transport
Departmental Expenditure Limit 17,026,697,000 20,705,191,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 4,993,737,000 82,986,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 34,826,944,000 Total 22,020,434,000 20,788,177,000 34,826,944,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:
Improving transport connections across the United Kingdom. Support of
transport-related activities including roads; vehicles and driving; rail;
shipping and maritime; mountain rescue; ports; sustainable travel; aviation;
search and rescue; local transport; transport security and safety; and highway
services.       Net spending by arm's length bodies. Grants to Transport for
London and local authorities in respect of local transport programmes. Support
for other minor transport services; use of European funding for transport-
related schemes; administrative costs and associated other non-cash items
falling in DEL. Smart-ticketing and related technology. Work to support the
government's new relationship with the EU under the Trade and Cooperation
Agreement and associated workstreams. Grants to Transport for the North and
Statutory Bodies. Loans for Shimmer Relocation Assistance Scheme and
transport-related activities.       Governmental response to the coronavirus
Covid-19 pandemic. The Public Sector Decarbonisation Scheme. Financial
assistance under the UK Internal Markets Act 2020 in any area of the United
Kingdom.       Losses and special payments relating to the administration of
the Department for Transport and its associated agencies. Rail reform.
Income arising from:       Sales of assets; loan repayments; interest
receivable and European grants for transport-related activities including
roads; vehicles and driving; rail; shipping and maritime; mountain rescue;
ports; sustainable travel; aviation; search and rescue; local transport;
transport security and safety; highway services.       Shipping and maritime
income including, but not limited to registration fees. Contributions from
other organisations to cover the cost of activities they have agreed to fund
in total or in part. Dividend income from shareholdings. Public Sector
Decarbonisation Scheme. Fees for use of clean air zones central services.
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Grant and
pension provisions and associated non-cash costs incurred by the Department
for Transport and its associated agencies in respect of transport-related
activities including roads; vehicle and driving; rail; sustainable travel;
aviation; local transport; transport security and safety; and highway
services.       Shipping and maritime activities. Other costs incurred by the
Department for Transport and its associated agencies in respect of transport-
related activities including Payments to General Lighthouse Authorities.
Net spending by arm's length bodies. Governmental response to the coronavirus
Covid-19 pandemic.           Income arising from:       Loan repayments and
other income for transport-related activities. Dividends and interest
receivable.

  Department for Energy Security and Net Zero, 2023-24   Department for Energy
Security and Net Zero       Estimate Net resources authorised for current
purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement
(£) (£) (£)   Department for Energy Security and Net Zero Departmental
Expenditure Limit 3,066,194,000 5,913,633,000 Annually Managed Expenditure
42,461,720,000 118,099,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement
18,260,644,000 Total 45,527,914,000 6,031,732,000 18,260,644,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:       The
provision of support for business, including support for specific industries,
small and medium businesses, regional programmes, programmes to promote
research and development, innovation and standards, best practice and
sustainable development.       Support for business and other non-domestic
energy bills.       Support for consumer and household energy bills.       The
Energy Security Strategy, to enable or encourage the supply of energy,
including acquisition, and making available or enabling access at government
expense to, energy or related infrastructure.       Support for energy-related
activities including regulation, civil emergency planning, energy resilience
measures, environmental remediation and support and facilitation for new and
sustainable or more efficient, or less carbon intensive energy sources,
technologies, transmission and storage, security and non-proliferation.
Respond to fuel poverty needs.       Measures to improve energy efficiency,
security and environmental practice; payments to energy companies to reduce
the impact of government policies on bills.       Work towards international
agreement on climate change; promote and support actions to reduce national
and global greenhouse gas emissions; climate modelling and risk assessment.
Safety, environment and social impact programmes relating to nuclear sites in
Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union and other countries
where future G8 Global Partnership related initiatives may be pursued.
Inspections and compliance in accordance with regulatory requirements and
recovery of expenditure through cost sharing arrangements.       The efficient
management and discharge of liabilities falling to the Department and its
partner organisations, including nuclear waste management and decommissioning,
and liabilities in respect of former shipbuilding industry and former coal
industry employees.       The management of the Government's shareholder
interest in the portfolio of commercial businesses wholly or partly owned by
Government; providing financial assistance to public corporations, and trading
funds.       The payment of subscriptions and contributions to international
organisations and fulfilment of international treaty obligations.       Making
payments to local authorities in respect of Local Area Agreements and New
Burdens responsibilities.       Activities of UK Government Investments on
behalf of the Department.       Specialist support services, staff management
and development; other departmental administration and non-cash costs;
payments towards the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority Combined Pension
Scheme deficit; exchange risk and other guarantee losses; publicity,
promotion, publications, knowledge sharing initiatives and departmental
research and development; surveys, monitoring, statistics, advice and
consultancies; management of asset sales; contributions to fund cross
government initiatives; payments to HM Treasury towards the cost of
Infrastructure UK.       Expenditure arising from the UK's departure from the
European Union.       Governmental response to the coronavirus Covid-19
pandemic.       Grants to local authorities.       Funding organisations
supporting departmental objectives, including the department's executive
agencies and arm's length bodies and their subsidiaries.           Income
arising from:       The Energy Security Strategy, to enable or encourage the
supply of energy, including acquisition, and making available or enabling
access at government expense to, energy or related infrastructure.
Receipts from other Government Departments and devolved administrations.
Receipts from statutory regulators in respect of expenses related to levies
from industry.       Receipts from licences and levies; dividends; equity
withdrawals; interest on loans and loan repayments.       Income from
investments; repayment of loans and investments; repayment of capital grants;
repayments of grants and contributions; receipts from asset sales.
European Fast Stream receipts; repayment of working capital loans; receipts
from outside organisations (including the EU) in respect of advertising and
publicity activities and materials; sale of research publications; receipts
from the European Social Fund to cover departmental programmes; sponsorship
funding.       Receipts and profit from the sale of surplus land, buildings
and equipment; rental income and repayments.       Receipts associated with
the closure of partner organisations.       Receipts from partner
organisations. Commercial loan recoveries in relation to UK Coal Production
Limited.       General administration receipts of the Department, its
executive agencies, its arm's length bodies, and other partner organisations,
including: the recovery of salaries and associated costs for seconded staff;
sale of goods and services; HMRC receipts arising from the Research and
Development Expenditure Credit; and interest from bank accounts and exchange
rate gains and losses.       Income relating to legal services, consultancy,
publications, public enquiries, information, central services; occupancy
charge; administrative and professional services; EU receipts; refund of input
VAT not claimed in previous years on departmental expenditure; fees for
services provided for energy resilience purposes; interest payments; non-cash
income.       Activities of UK Government Investments on behalf of the
Department.       Contributions from other organisations to cover the cost of
activities they have agreed to fund in total or in part.       Government
carbon offsetting scheme receipts.       Receipt and retention of financial
securities relating to the decommissioning of renewable devices such as
offshore wind.       Receipts relating to the oil and gas industries
(including petroleum licensing and levy receipts).       Receipts relating to
the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority.             Annually Managed
Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Support for consumer and
household, business and other non-domestic energy bills.       The Energy
Security Strategy, to enable or encourage the supply of energy, including
acquisition, and making available or enabling access at government expense to,
energy or related infrastructure.       The efficient management and discharge
of liabilities falling to the Department and its partner organisations,
including nuclear waste management and decommissioning and liabilities in
respect of former shipbuilding industry and former coal industry employees.
Bad debts, impairments and provisions; other non-cash items.
Departmental administration; support for innovation and research activity;
miscellaneous programmes.       Governmental response to the coronavirus
Covid-19 pandemic.       The management of asset sales.       Payment of
corporation tax.       Activities of UK Government Investments on behalf of
the Department.       Renewable Heat Incentive including Renewable Heat
Premium Payments.       Impairment of loans and investments; Exchange rate
gains and losses.       Efficient discharge of liabilities relating to
contracts for difference for the supply of electricity.

  Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, 2023-24   Department for
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs       Estimate Net resources authorised
for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs
Departmental Expenditure Limit 4,790,070,000 2,823,109,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 2,665,085,000 110,355,000 Non-budget Expenditure 10,000,000 Net
Cash Requirement 7,991,237,000 Total 7,465,155,000 2,933,464,000 7,991,237,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:
Expenditure by Natural England and the Environment Agency. Represent forestry
interests, encourage good forestry practice, sustainable forest management and
conduct forest research. International policy, research, standard-setting and
monitoring to support sustainable forestry. Land grants, countryside access
and rights of way. Policy on commons, national parks and town and village
greens. Environmental protection and conservation, maintain air and ozone
quality, increase UK's environmental decontamination capabilities, deliver
social, environmental and economic programmes; Maintain water quality and a
resilient supply, support for management of inland waterways and obligations
under the Water Act 2003 and Water Act 2014. Support terrestrial, marine,
waterway environments and protection of water bodies. Fair charges for supply
of water and provision of sewerage services to customers.       Support
protection of species, wildlife management, habitat protection and
conservation. Support national and global biodiversity, geodiversity and
research. Support for rural and regional development.       Better waste
management. Promotion and support for sustainable development, consumption and
production. Supporting development of farming and cost-sharing initiatives,
payments, losses and penalties relating to the administration of European
Union (EU) schemes including disallowance.       Compensation payments to
producers and support for agriculture. Championing hygienic production,
marketing, delivery and processing in the agriculture, fisheries and food
industries. Support bee and fish conservation and health, UK's
responsibilities under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered
Species (CITES) and fishing industry. Support keeping, movement tracing, trade
with Northern Ireland, the EU and Internationally, health and welfare of
animals, animal products and by-products, and marketing. Support a
sustainable, secure and healthy food supply; food labelling and composition
policy.       Flood risk management and development implications, land
drainage and sewerage. Exotic and endemic animal and plant disease policy
portfolio and eradication. Regulatory systems for chemicals, veterinary
medicines and pesticides. Radioactive waste management, justifying authority
for new nuclear power, pollution emergency response services, emergency
response/contingency services, noise mapping and manage other environmental
risks. Consultation on town, urban and country developments. Climate
modelling, risk assessment and adaptation.       Costs associated with ongoing
repatriation of functions and funds following exit from the EU and ongoing
responses to the Covid-19 pandemic. Specialist support services; legacy and
residual delivery body costs; subsidies to support delivery bodies; staff
management and development; other departmental administration and non-cash
costs; publicity, promotion; awareness and publications; knowledge-sharing
initiatives; research and development; surveys; monitoring; statistics; advice
and consultancies; funding through Area-Based Grants; subscriptions and
contributions to international organisations; international policy-making;
working with the EU; licensing, approvals and certification; inspections;
compliance and enforcement in accordance with regulatory requirements. Voted
loans in relation to National Museums.           Income arising from:
Devolved administrations, overseas Governments and European Commission;
delivery body funding contributions; provision of employee and financial
shared services to other public sector bodies; surveys; receipts from sale of
carcasses and vaccines; income from licensing; regulatory income; approvals;
investments; interest gained; donations and bequests; commercial activities;
certification; publications; public inquiries; information; inspections;
registrations; supervision and extensification; administration of grant; waste
disposal; recovery of costs incurred for Covid-19 waste water testing; capital
loan schemes; commissioned surveys; research; studies and provision of advice;
rental income and repayments; income from sale of electricity generated on
Defra group sites; occupancy charge; administrative training and professional
services; pension and redundancy contributions and knowledge-sharing
initiatives.             Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure
arising from:       Levy collection; publicity, promotion, awareness and
publications; research and development; market and supply chain analysis and
support; packaging recovery support; licensing, approvals and certification.
Specialist support services; staff management and development; delivery body
funding contributions; surveys; monitoring; statistics; advice and
consultancies; provision for future liabilities; bad debts; depreciation;
revaluations and impairment losses; legacy and residual delivery body costs.
Promotion of affordable insurance in relation to flood risk. Non-cash
financing charges relating to reservoir operating agreement financial
liabilities.             Non-Budget Expenditure         Expenditure arising
from:       Payments to devolved administrations.           Income arising
from:       Funding contributions to support delivery bodies.

  Department for Business and Trade, 2023-24   Department for Business and
Trade       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Department for Business and Trade Departmental Expenditure Limit 1,605,278,000
1,053,891,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 97,223,000 1,707,150,000 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 4,292,494,000 Total 1,702,501,000
2,761,041,000 4,292,494,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:       Trade development and promotion, outward and
inward investment, the formulation and implementation of trade policy and
remedies, contribution to the cross government GREAT campaign, Support Trade
Remedies Authority as an arm's length body; including grants, associated
capital and other related expenditure and non-cash items, developing trade
relationships and supporting supply chain management and resilience, and
commencing, pursuing and defending UK trade disputes and UK's present and
future relationship with the World Trade Organization (WTO).
Administration of the Department for Business and Trade, including continued
administration of ex-Department for International Trade, and associated
offices; publicity, promotion and publications; communications; purchase,
acquisition, hire, lease and rent of land, buildings, plant, equipment,
machinery, vehicles and capital assets; digital and IT; special payments, and
domestic legal proceedings.       Funding to provide compensation to Group
Litigation Order (GLO) claimants who have suffered detriment arising from the
errors in the Post Office Horizon IT system or the other matters identified in
the relevant High Court judgments.       The promotion of enterprise,
innovation and increased productivity delivered through international trade
and investment, regional investment and delivering regulatory reform, and
measures to combat international bribery and corruption.       The provision
of support for business, including support for specific industries, small and
medium businesses, regional programmes, programmes to promote research and
development, innovation and standards, best practice and sustainable
development.       The provision of financial solutions to accelerate private
sector investment and address market failures through the British Business
Bank, and other similar intervention mechanisms.       The promotion of
strong, fair and competitive markets at home and abroad; measures to protect
investors and consumers including from unsafe products and unfair practices;
support for employment relations programmes and measures to promote a skilled
and flexible labour market.       The efficient management and discharge of
specific costs falling to the Department and its partner organisations
relating to outstanding personal injury claims against Thomas Cook.       The
management of the Government's shareholder interest in the portfolio of
commercial businesses wholly or partly owned by Government; providing
financial assistance to public corporations, and trading funds.       The
management of miscellaneous programmes including payments in respect of claims
for the restitution of the property of victims of Nazi persecution.       The
payment of subscriptions and contributions to international organisations and
fulfilment of international treaty obligations.       Increasing science and
research excellence in the United Kingdom and maximising its contribution to
society.       Making payments to local authorities in respect of Local Area
Agreements and New Burdens responsibilities.       Activities of UK Government
Investments on behalf of the Department.       Inspections and compliance in
accordance with EU regulatory requirements and recovery of expenditure through
cost sharing arrangements.       Expenditure arising from the UK's departure
from the European Union. Governmental response to the coronavirus Covid-19
pandemic and Inquiry. Grants to local authorities.       Funding organisations
supporting departmental objectives, including the department's executive
agencies and arm's length bodies and their subsidiaries.       Developing,
implementing and enforcing trade sanctions.       Regulating military and
other sensitive exports such as dual-use items done through a licensing
system, ensuring UK exports are consistent with our national and international
obligations and standards.           Income arising from:       The sale of
goods and services relating to trade development and promotion, outward and
inward investment, the formulation and implementation of trade policy,
contribution to the cross government GREAT campaign; including sponsorship;
asset sales; insurance claims; recovery of costs incurred on behalf of others;
recovery of overpayment; capital grant in kind, income from grant programmes.
Receipts from other Government Departments and devolved administrations; the
Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service; the Insolvency Service.
General administration receipts of the Department, its executive agencies, its
arm's length bodies, and other partner organisations, including: the recovery
of salaries and associated costs for seconded staff; sale of goods and
services.       Activities of UK Government Investments on behalf of the
Department.       Proceeds of Crime income generated in criminal enforcement.
Receipts from statutory regulators in respect of expenses related to levies
from industry.       Receipts from licences and levies; Launch Investment
receipts; Capital Venture Funds receipts; premium income and other receipts
from Financial Guarantee schemes, and of dividends; equity withdrawals;
interest on loans and loan repayments from the Land Registry. Income from
investments; receipts from financial investments made by the British Business
Bank; repayment of loans and investments; repayment of capital grants;
repayments of grants and contributions; receipts from asset sales.
Receipts and profit from the sale of surplus land, buildings and equipment;
rental income and repayments including from three domestic properties on the
estate of the European School of Culture at Culham, Oxfordshire and from the
National Physical Laboratory.       Receipts associated with the closure of
partner organisations.       Income relating to legal services and legal
proceedings, consultancy, publications, public enquiries, information, central
services; occupancy charge; administrative and professional services; EU
receipts; refund of input VAT not claimed in previous years on departmental
expenditure; interest payments; non-cash income.       Contributions from
other organisations to cover the cost of activities they have agreed to fund
in total or in part.       Receipts from other Government Departments and
devolved administrations; the Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service
and the Insolvency Service.       General administration receipts of the
Department, its executive agencies, its arm's length bodies, and other partner
organisations, including: the recovery of salaries and associated costs for
seconded staff; sale of goods and services.       Activities of UK Government
Investments on behalf of the Department.       Proceeds of Crime income
generated in criminal enforcement.             Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       Depreciation, impairments, amortisation,
revaluation, provisions, bad debts and other non-cash items.
Departmental administration; financial guarantee schemes; regional investment
and programmes; enterprise for small and medium firms; provision of support
for business, including support for specific industries; miscellaneous
programmes.       The management of asset sales.       Payment of corporation
tax.       The provision of repayable credit facilities for Post Office Ltd;
contributions to partner organisations' pension schemes; and the provision of
parental leave schemes.       Activities of UK Government Investments on
behalf of the Department.       Impairment of loans and investments; Exchange
rate gains and losses.       The Redundancy Payments Service.           Income
arising from:       Receipts from asset sales.       Refund of input VAT not
claimed in previous years on departmental expenditure; interest payments;
repayments of grants and contributions; non-cash income.       Activities of
UK Government Investments on behalf of the Department.       Receipt of
interest on loans and loan repayments from Post Office Ltd.       Dividends
from shares held by Postal Services Holding Ltd in Royal Mail.

  HM Land Registry, 2023-24   HM Land Registry       Estimate Net resources
authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes
Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   HM Land Registry Departmental Expenditure
Limit 424,270,000 60,200,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 19,000,000 0 Non-
budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 484,470,000 Total 443,270,000
60,200,000 484,470,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure
arising from:       Support and operational costs, transformation, technology,
equipment, other payments, associated depreciation and any other non-cash
costs falling in DEL. Governmental response to the Covid-19 pandemic. The
disposal, sale or donation of capital assets.           Income arising from:
The disposal, sale or donation of capital assets. Cost recoveries. Interest
receivable. Receipt of VAT refunds.             Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       Provisions and other non-cash items.
Governmental response to the Covid-19 pandemic.

  Department for Work and Pensions, 2023-24   Department for Work and Pensions
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Department
for Work and Pensions Departmental Expenditure Limit 8,766,394,000 747,395,000
Annually Managed Expenditure 130,590,997,000 333,030,000 Non-budget
Expenditure 4,733,219,000 Net Cash Requirement 145,288,956,000 Total
144,090,610,000 1,080,425,000 145,288,956,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:       Payments relating to the administration and
operating costs of the Department to enable the Department to fulfil its
obligations to all its client groups as well as supporting the Governmental
response to the ongoing and longer-term impacts of the increased costs of
living.       Expenditure promoting the Department's aims and objectives in
other organisations including Government Departments, Local Authorities,
Devolved Administrations and Crown and Executive Non-Departmental Public
Bodies, including the Health and Safety Executive, Remploy Pension Scheme
Trustees Ltd, the Money and Pensions Service including the provision of money
and debt advice and the Department's pensions and advisory arm's length bodies
and private, public and voluntary organisations.       Administrative costs
associated with the Department's contribution to cross-government programmes.
The costs incurred from activity to support the detection and minimisation of
fraud and error in the benefit system and the collection of debt arising from
overpayments of benefit and on behalf of other public and private sector
bodies.       Costs associated with providing training and employment projects
assisted by the European Union (EU) through the European Social Fund and
expenditure relating to exiting the EU.       Information Technology, employee
and financial services to other public sector bodies and data technology
services. Policy, research, and publicity supporting the Department's
activities. The UK's subscription to the International Labour Organisation and
international educational programmes.       Assistance and advice on
employment and labour market issues to international organisations and
measures and assistance to promote financial and digital inclusion.
Employment and training programmes. Payment of appropriate grants, loans,
compensation, benefits, and allowances.       Assisting people to make plans
for their retirement, including research into pensions, provision of pension
guidance, private pension industry regulatory work, programmes, and measures
to help improve independence and social inclusion for older people.
Provision for general levy payments to arm's length bodies.       Subsidies to
housing, billing, levying and local authorities for administration and payment
of Housing Benefit and other locally delivered support.       Depreciation and
any other non-cash costs falling in DEL including losses, special payments and
write offs.           Income arising from:       The administration of the
Department and its Crown and Executive Non-Departmental Public Bodies in
delivering their statutory responsibilities, in accordance with the prevailing
legislation and regulations.       This includes receipts from staff, outward
secondments, sale of capital assets and non-capital items, the recovery of
court costs, services carried out on behalf of public and private sector
bodies and members of the public, EU activity, levy funded bodies and other
associated income.       Receipts in respect of recoveries of payments and
income from other government departments and devolved administrations in
respect of services the Department provides.       Donations and bequests.
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       The
payment of pensions, social security and other benefits, grants, loans,
allowances and payments to people of working age, pensioners, and people with
disabilities and their carers, in accordance with the prevailing legislation
and regulations, including the Governmental response to the ongoing and longer
term impacts of the increased costs of living.       Costs and payments
associated with the collapse of private pension schemes.       Other losses,
special payments and write offs together with provisions and other non-cash
costs falling in AME.           Income arising from:       Income arising from
interest, receipts in respect of benefits paid in lieu, recoveries of benefit
payments and advances.             Non-Budget Expenditure         Expenditure
arising from:       Payment of the Grant to the Social Fund to fund Regulated,
Discretionary and Winter Fuel payments.       Other relevant non-budget
expenditure.

  HM Revenue and Customs, 2023-24   HM Revenue and Customs       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   HM Revenue and Customs
Departmental Expenditure Limit 6,141,983,000 627,148,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 14,365,675,000 109,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 20,538,784,000 Total 20,507,658,000 627,257,000 20,538,784,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:
Administration in management, collection and payment of a range of taxes, tax
credits, benefits, reliefs, refunds, duties, levies, statutory payments,
allowances, loans, entitlements, regulatory and verification schemes.
Delivering policies held by other government departments, assistance to
devolved administrations and public bodies.       Law enforcement, criminal
investigation and provision of resources to independent investigatory bodies
including the Adjudicator's Office. Payments for the HMRC National Museum and
grants to the voluntary and community sector.       International Tax
Cooperation Agreements, customs controls, overseas tax administration,
Official Development Assistance and support of projects abroad.
Providing shared services, Revenue and Customs Digital Technology Services
Limited, services provided to third parties and provision of trade
information.       Administration of the National Insurance Funds for Great
Britain and Northern Ireland.       European Union transition and
implementation of trade agreements.       Governmental response to the
Covid-19 pandemic.       Payments to assist with Cost of Living.       Non-
cash items falling in DEL.       Valuations, administration, setting and
maintaining of assessments, advice, property services, payments of Local
Authority Rates on behalf of accredited foreign countries and non-cash items
incurred by the Valuation Office Agency. All activities, including ensuring
that systems are maintained and updated as necessary, to enable the integrity
of the lists for current use and preparing for any possible future
revaluations and reforms to council tax and non-domestic rate systems.
Income arising from:       Tax reliefs, entitlements, levies, regulatory and
verification schemes.       Recovery of costs associated with debt collection
and other law costs, overpayments, insurance and compensation claims, staff
costs, apprenticeships funding, valuation and other services, transaction fees
and excess cash receipts, and other services.       Services provided to the
Valuation Office Agency, Revenue and Customs Digital Technology Services
Limited, other government departments, devolved administrations, other bodies
and international parties and providing shared services.       Charges made
for attendance of officers, international commitments, travel expenses, use of
cars and rent, and other services.       Sales of assets, information,
publications, statistical services, certificates and other services.       The
Asset Recovery Incentivisation Scheme and other receipts. Recovery of
administration costs of the National Insurance Funds, collection of National
Insurance contributions.       Income arising from contributions to programmes
conducted on behalf of government.       Governmental response to the Covid-19
pandemic.       Recoveries of income from other government departments
(including grants).       Non-cash items falling in DEL.       Valuations,
administration, setting and maintaining of assessments, advice, property
services, payments of Local Authority Rates on behalf of accredited foreign
countries and non-cash items incurred by the Valuation Office Agency.
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Tax
credits, benefits, reliefs, refunds, duties, levies, allowances and
entitlements.       Remittance of irrecoverable debts, losses on asset
revaluation and exchange rate movements. Incentive payments for filing,
transitional payments to charities, provisions movements and payments that add
capacity to debt recovery.       Governmental response to the Covid-19
pandemic.       Non-cash items falling in AME.       Payments of Rates on
behalf of accredited Commonwealth and foreign countries and certain
international organisations and non-cash items.           Income arising from:
Payments of Rates by accredited Commonwealth and foreign countries and certain
international organisations, refunds from local authorities.

  HM Treasury, 2023-24   HM Treasury       Estimate Net resources authorised
for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   HM Treasury Departmental Expenditure Limit
351,430,000 8,092,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 15,919,326,000
50,077,415,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 57,574,861,000
Total 16,270,756,000 50,085,507,000 57,574,861,000   Departmental Expenditure
Limit         Expenditure arising from:       Core Treasury functions covering
economic and financial matters, including promoting and supporting the
financial services sector, illegal money lending, a financial sanctions
regime, consumer credit, legal claims, and the provision of guarantees.
Assistance and compensation to institutions, businesses, and individuals. The
purchase of investments, honours and dignities, gilt administration
compensation payments and business support measures. The administration costs
of the department, depreciation, and other non-cash items.       Funding for
the Department's executive agencies, the UK Debt Management Office (DMO), the
National Infrastructure Commission (NIC) and the Government Internal Audit
Agency (GIAA). Costs associated with the closure of the Office of Tax
Simplification.       Spending on Treasury related bodies including the Office
for Budget Responsibility (OBR), the UK Infrastructure Bank (UKIB), IUK
Investments Limited, IUK Investments Holdings Limited, HMT UK Sovereign SUKUK
plc, the Royal Mint Advisory Committee on the design of Coins, Medals, Seals
and Decorations, UK Government Investments Limited (UKGI), UK Asset Resolution
Limited (UKAR) and European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD).
Income arising from:       Assistance to institutions, businesses, and
individuals, including fees and charges for the provision of guarantees, loan
repayments, loan interest and fees, dividends, the sale of shares and debt
royalties, financial regulators, insurance sponsorship and supervision
responsibilities.       Recoveries in respect of Honours and Dignities and the
administration of the Treasury, including rent from tenants and recharges for
work and training, work of the Government Finance Function and Government
Economic and Social Research Team, the sale of assets and redundant capital
items.       The administration of Pool Re and other related bodies.
DMO, GIAA, NIC and UKGI for services provided to other government departments
and organisations.             Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       Spending by HM Treasury on costs related to
investment in, and financial assistance to, financial institutions and non-
financial organisations, businesses, and individuals. Includes credit easing,
provision of guarantees, loans, compensation, warranties and indemnities and
Infrastructure finance. Movements in the value of the Bank of England Asset
Purchase Facility Fund (APF) derivative and payments to the APF.       The
production costs of UK coinage, including manufacture, purchase of metal,
storage, and distribution.       Help to Buy ISA. Administration of the
Equitable Life Payments Scheme and the creation and use of provisions. The
Royal Household, UKAR, Help to Buy (HMT) Limited, Reclaim Fund Ltd (RFL), Pool
Reinsurance Company Ltd (Pool Re) and the UKIB. Costs associated with the UK
exiting the European Union (EU) as per the Withdrawal Agreement.
Income arising from:       Transactions with financial institutions and public
and private organisations, businesses and individuals including interest, fees
and charges, dividends, loan repayments, sale of shares and other assets. The
Mortgage Guarantee Scheme (MGS).       The EU as agreed in the Withdrawal
Agreement. Repayment of the UK's paid in capital from the European Investment
Bank (EIB).

  Cabinet Office, 2023-24   Cabinet Office       Estimate Net resources
authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes
Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Cabinet Office Departmental Expenditure
Limit 949,832,000 365,836,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 270,468,000 0 Non-
budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 1,477,078,000 Total 1,220,300,000
365,836,000 1,477,078,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure
arising from:       Administration and operation of the department in
connection with the following functions:       Seize the opportunities of
Brexit, through creating the world's most effective border to increase UK
prosperity and enhance security. Secure a safe, prosperous and resilient UK by
coordinating national security and crisis response, realising strategic
advantage through science and technology, and the implementation of the
Integrated Review. Advance equality of opportunity across the UK. Increase the
efficiency, effectiveness and accountability of government through modernising
and reforming the work of the Government Functions. Support the design and
implementation of the Government's and Prime Minister's priorities.
Activities of the Government Property Agency, Civil Service Commission,
Registrar of Consultant Lobbyists and Commission for Equality and Human
Rights.       Governance of the Principal Civil Service Pension Scheme and the
Royal Mail Statutory Pension Scheme.       Expertise in infrastructure
financing, delivery and assurance of major projects to support more effective
management and delivery across government.       Payments of grant and grant-
in-aid to organisations promoting Cabinet Office objectives, supporting not-
for-profit bodies associated with the public service, payments to and relating
to former Prime Ministers and Deputy Prime Ministers, reimbursement of Lord
Lieutenants' expenses, expenses in connection with honours, losses and special
payments.       Underwriting of the Official Receiver, appointed as
Liquidator, services provided to other government departments and
apprenticeship training for staff.       Payment of recovered fraud into the
Consolidated Fund, disbursement of fraud recovery and the Asset Recovery
Incentivisation Scheme (ARIS) payments to government departments and public
bodies, return of seized funds and assets, fraud debt management, expenditure
consequential to action by Cabinet Office against fraud occurring in any
government department and public body.       Expenditure on non-current
assets, depreciation, impairments, notional audit fee, doubtful debts, bad
debt write-offs and associated non-cash items in DEL.           Income arising
from:       Royalties, dividends, interest receivable, income from the
European Union (EU), rental income, sales of goods and services, rebates from
suppliers, refunds, cost recoveries, training courses, expert and
transactional services carried out on behalf of other public sector bodies,
shared services income, cost sharing arrangements, contributions to programmes
conducted on behalf of government, sale of contractual rights, framework
establishment and management fee income, recoverable management costs of the
Principal Civil Service Pension Scheme and income from employers participating
in the Principal Civil Service Pension Scheme to cover administration of the
scheme, secondment and loan receipts, receipts from staff, repayment of grants
and subsidies, income from services provided to other government departments,
notional grant income relating to apprenticeship training for staff, repayment
of loan principal and related interest, sale or use of rights and assets,
capital grant income, capital grant-in-kind income on receipt of donated
assets, capital receipts and income on disposal of donated assets.
Recovery of fraudulently obtained funds and assets through use of civil
recovery and criminal powers, participation in the Asset Recovery
Incentivisation Scheme (ARIS), fraud debt management, interest on seized
funds.       Activities of the Government Property Agency, Registrar of
Consultant Lobbyists and Commission for Equality and Human Rights.
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:
Provisions for early departures, dilapidations, onerous contracts, revaluation
of assets, expected credit losses, and depreciation on donated assets,
impairments and associated non-cash items in AME.

  Scotland Office and Office of the Advocate General, 2023-24   Scotland
Office and Office of the Advocate General       Estimate Net resources
authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes
Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Scotland Office and Office of the Advocate
General Departmental Expenditure Limit 13,568,000 450,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 45,252,526,000 Net Cash Requirement
45,266,317,000 Total 45,266,094,000 450,000 45,266,317,000   Departmental
Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:       Administration costs
in supporting the Secretary of State for Scotland and the Advocate General for
Scotland; providing advice on policy and legislation; Boundary Commission for
Scotland; capital, and associated non-cash costs.           Income arising
from:       Rental income; receipts from legal services provided to other
government departments; receipts from other government departments and other
miscellaneous receipts.             Non-Budget Expenditure         Expenditure
arising from:       Payments to the Scottish Consolidated Fund.

  Wales Office, 2023-24   Wales Office       Estimate Net resources authorised
for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Wales Office Departmental Expenditure Limit
5,778,000 30,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure
21,424,831,000 Net Cash Requirement 21,430,502,000 Total 21,430,609,000 30,000
21,430,502,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising
from:       Administration costs for the Wales Office; Lord Lieutenants'
expenditure; capital, and associated non-cash costs; other non-cash costs.
Non-Budget Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Payments of a
grant to the Welsh Consolidated Fund.

  Northern Ireland Office, 2023-24   Northern Ireland Office       Estimate
Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for
capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Northern Ireland Office
Departmental Expenditure Limit 41,449,000 3,305,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 1,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 22,359,952,000 Net Cash Requirement
22,715,671,000 Total 22,401,402,000 3,305,000 22,715,671,000   Departmental
Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:       Overseeing the
effective operation of the devolution settlement in Northern Ireland and
representing the interests of Northern Ireland within the UK Government.
Expenditure on administrative services, Head of State related costs, VIP
visits to Northern Ireland, Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission and
Commissions or Reviews arising from the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement, the
Northern Ireland Act 1998, the Northern Ireland Act 2000, the Northern Ireland
Act 2009, political development and inquiries,  the Electoral Office for
Northern Ireland, elections and boundary reviews, legal services, security,
victims of the Troubles including the work of the Independent Commission for
the Location of Victims' Remains, Parades Commission for Northern Ireland,
Civil Service Commissioners for Northern Ireland, the Independent Reporting
Commission, compensation schemes under the Justice and Security (Northern
Ireland) Act 2007 and Terrorism Act 2000 and certain other grants. Expenditure
arising from the Stormont House Agreement, the Fresh Start Agreement, New
Decade New Approach and New Deal for Northern Ireland. Expenditure on
arrangements for the running of Hillsborough Castle. This will include
associated depreciation and any other non-cash costs falling in DEL.
Income arising from:       Recoupment of electoral expenses, receipts from the
use of video conferencing facilities, fees and costs recovered or received for
work done for other departments, freedom of information receipts, data
protection act receipts, recovery of compensation paid, recoupment of grant
funding, costs and fees awarded in favour of the Crown. Fees and costs
recovered or received for the use of the NIO estate.       Contributions from
third parties to fund grant programmes and monies from other departments to
fund projects in Northern Ireland.             Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       Provisions.             Non-Budget Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       Providing appropriate funding to the Northern
Ireland Consolidated Fund for the delivery of transferred public services as
defined by the Northern Ireland Act 1998, Northern Ireland Act 2000 and the
Northern Ireland Act 2009. Grants to the Northern Ireland Consolidated Fund
and transfers of EU funds.

  National Savings and Investments, 2023-24   National Savings and Investments
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   National
Savings and Investments Departmental Expenditure Limit 250,753,000 9,460,000
Annually Managed Expenditure 700,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 259,917,000 Total 251,453,000 9,460,000 259,917,000   Departmental
Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:       Cost of delivery of
National Savings and Investments operations, and leveraged activities with
other bodies including administration, operational research and development
works, transformation activity, other payments and non-cash items. Other
payments including payments in respect of recovered losses, and expenditure on
capital items.           Income arising from:       The leveraging of National
Savings and Investments core infrastructure and capabilities and associated
contracts including rent receipts and other receipts such as loss recovery
payments. The sale of assets resulting in some capital income being used as
sale proceeds.             Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure
arising from:       Non-cash movements in provisions including changes to fair
value of National Savings and Investments'  properties.

  Charity Commission, 2023-24   Charity Commission       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Charity Commission Departmental
Expenditure Limit 31,304,000 3,000,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-
budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 31,987,000 Total 31,304,000
3,000,000 31,987,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure
arising from:       Revenue and Capital expenditure in relation to the
registration and regulation of charities. Expenditure in connection with
depreciation and other non-cash items in DEL.           Income arising from:
Providing services, in both the UK and abroad, relating to our knowledge and
expertise in the field of registration and regulation of charities. Shared
working approaches with other Government Departments.

  Competition and Markets Authority, 2023-24   Competition and Markets
Authority       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Competition and Markets Authority Departmental Expenditure Limit 136,662,000
7,993,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 15,000,000 1,000,000 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 136,242,000 Total 151,662,000 8,993,000
136,242,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:
Advancing and safeguarding the economic interests of UK consumers, businesses
and the economy; enforcing competition and consumer law, including payment for
information; analysing and monitoring markets; merger control; advocacy;
information, education and advice; costs in respect of reactive and proactive
litigation; providing expert, independent, trusted advice and economic
analysis to support the four nations to trade effectively within the UK
Internal Market; providing advice to public authorities and report on the
effective operation of the subsidy control regime; operationalising and
preparing for the new regulatory regime to implement and enforce a new pro-
competition regime for digital markets; administrative and operational costs,
associated depreciation and any other non-cash items falling in DEL.
Supporting the Government's Places for Growth programme by increasing presence
in Edinburgh, Belfast and Cardiff, and establishing new offices in Manchester
and Darlington.           Income arising from:       Recovery of legal costs;
contributions from other departments towards the costs of market studies;
payments from the Home Office under the asset recovery incentivisation scheme;
fine income permitted for offset against litigation spend; payments for
information and publications; income from office space rental and other
property related income, including compensation from the landlord; fees for
common services provided to other organisations; recoveries of salaries of
staff on loan or seconded to outside bodies; sale of plant and machinery;
recoveries in connection with private telephone calls, postal and bank
charges.             Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising
from:       Provisions and other non-cash costs.

  The Statistics Board, 2023-24   The Statistics Board       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   The Statistics Board Departmental
Expenditure Limit 348,452,000 23,827,000 Annually Managed Expenditure
-2,000,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 353,762,000 Total
346,452,000 23,827,000 353,762,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:       The collection, preparation and dissemination
of economic, social, labour market and other statistics; undertaking and
commissioning statistical research, and assisting statistical research by
providing access to data; promoting and safeguarding the quality of official
statistics, monitoring the production and publication of official statistics;
conducting a programme of assessment of existing and candidate National
Statistics against the Code of Practice for Official Statistics; providing
analysis of statistics to enhance understanding; coordinating the design,
collection, preparation, supply, quality management of the UK's European
statistics, provision of business support and IT services and associated non-
cash items.       Undertaking of various roles in an international context.
Income arising from:       Provision of social surveys and the provision of
other services (statistical and corporate); provision of statistical related
IT platforms to other public sector organisations; recovery costs of shared
projects; sales of statistical data supply services, analyses and
publications; research grants or funding for Statistical Research; receipts
from EU and other overseas contracts; rental income; recovery of
Apprenticeship Levy; the provision of business support services and through
the sale of fixed assets.             Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       Creation of provision in respect of onerous
contracts; early departure costs; and other provisions and associated non-cash
items.

  Office for Standards in Education, Children's Services and Skills, 2023-24
Office for Standards in Education, Children's Services and Skills
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Office for
Standards in Education, Children's Services and Skills Departmental
Expenditure Limit 155,778,000 4,200,000 Annually Managed Expenditure -18,000 0
Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 153,879,000 Total 155,760,000
4,200,000 153,879,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure
arising from:       Promoting improvement in the quality of education, skills,
care, and support for children and young people through independent
inspection, regulation and reporting. Sharing research findings and good
practice through mechanisms including publications, seminars, conferences and
collaboration with and support to other regulators.       Governmental
emergency responses including (but not limited to) advice and support, and the
deployment or secondment of staff to and from Ofsted in support of the
response.       This includes related administrative and operational costs,
capital expenditure, and associated depreciation and other non-cash costs
falling within DEL.           Income arising from:       The registration of
childcare providers, inspection for the care and support of children and young
people, some maintained schools, independent schools and further education
colleges, publicly funded adult education and training and accreditation of
online education providers.       Transactions with departmental and other
government bodies: receipts for inspection and other related activity
undertaken on behalf of other Government departments, and overseas government
bodies (where clearance has been provided by the relevant UK Government
department).       Miscellaneous asset sales and recovery of costs, property
charges made to minor occupiers, and receipts for goods and services provided
by Ofsted.             Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure
arising from:       Provisions and other non-cash items in AME.

  Office of Qualifications and Examinations Regulation, 2023-24   Office of
Qualifications and Examinations Regulation       Estimate Net resources
authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes
Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Office of Qualifications and Examinations
Regulation Departmental Expenditure Limit 29,822,000 637,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 29,751,000 Total
29,822,000 637,000 29,751,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:       The regulation of the validity of general,
vocational and other qualifications throughout their lifecycle; promoting
public confidence in regulated qualifications; continuing delivery of
vocational and technical education reforms; monitoring and evaluating reformed
qualifications; and evaluating the validity of National Assessments.
Conducting relevant investigation, research and analysis, and undertaking
engagement and consultation with stakeholders to provide assurance that
regulated qualifications are fit-for-purpose and support good educational and
training outcomes.       Exploring, investigating and acknowledging
opportunities for innovation, including the use of artificial intelligence to
improve the quality of marking in high-stakes qualifications.       Developing
the skills and capabilities of our people, and developing and investing in our
digital systems to secure efficiency and value for money.           Income
arising from:       The Department for Education to support ongoing reform
programmes, and, where required, to enable Ofqual to take on new reform
programmes as they arise.       The recovery of costs associated with the
monetary penalties imposed on awarding organisations for breaches of Ofqual's
regulations.       The recovery of costs associated with the provision of data
and analysis to regulatory counterparts and to other Government departments;
for provision of support relating to IT/digital development, including
developments to the register of qualifications; and income from the disposal
of hardware as part of ongoing IT refresh. Receipts relating to the recovery
of salaries and associated costs for seconded staff.       Receipts relating
to the recovery of building-related costs.

  Food Standards Agency, 2023-24   Food Standards Agency       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Food Standards Agency Departmental
Expenditure Limit 115,569,000 14,130,000 Annually Managed Expenditure
9,603,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 124,347,000 Total
125,172,000 14,130,000 124,347,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:       Delivering the FSA's statutory purpose of
protecting public health and consumers' wider interests in relation to food.
The five-year strategy, published in April 2022, said that the FSA would
continue to work to ensure that consumers have food you can trust. By this we
mean a food system in which food is safe, food is what it says it is and food
is healthier and more sustainable. All of the FSA's work contributes to this
strategic mission and vision, and to deliver the above FSA will pursue
activities incurring costs associated with: managing research and evidence
gathering, food incidents, investigations, prosecutions, combating food fraud
and crime, deploying the risk analysis process for food and animal feed safety
issues, product authorisations, policy development, enforcement and management
of regulated products; inspections, meat hygiene and official controls;
controls on primary production;  animal health and welfare monitoring,
surveillance and enforcement; supporting local authorities and port health
authorities to deliver food and/or feed law official controls; support to
public analyst laboratories; regulatory reform, developing new regulatory
frameworks and reviewing retained European Union (EU) law; international and
border activity on official controls; support for trade negotiations, market
access and related activities with EU and non-EU countries; engaging
internationally to influence key priorities; Windsor Framework activity on
food safety and standards; collaboration with or on behalf of UK,
international public bodies; Government's wider aims to ensure that food is
healthier and more sustainable including working with devolved governments;
digital and data services for food businesses, local authorities and
consumers; information and communication services to food businesses and
consumers; FSA's annual report on food standards; advice and education,
marketing and publications; accrediting third party auditors; staff and
overhead costs; debt recovery, payments of penalties and interest, funding for
depreciation, audit fees and other non-cash items.           Income arising
from:       Meat official controls and other official activities, including
enforcement and export related activities; wine standards and other food-
related activities concerning international market access; risk assessments,
evidence and research, testing, sampling, food crime - Proceeds of Crime Act
(POCA) activities, receipt of court costs and fees; enforcement and
surveillance work for, and recharge of expenditure relating to work done in
collaboration with or on behalf of UK, EU and non-EU countries' public bodies;
assessments/consultations on radioactive discharges; staff loans and
secondments; sub-letting of accommodation and associated services; disposal of
fixed assets; and income arising from capital grants in kind.
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Creation,
adjustment and utilisation of provisions relating to pensions, early exits and
retirements, bad debts, onerous leases, personal injury and legal claims;
revaluations and write off of bad debts; and other non-cash items.

  The National Archives, 2023-24   The National Archives       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   The National Archives Departmental
Expenditure Limit 46,822,000 4,300,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-
budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 43,801,000 Total 46,822,000
4,300,000 43,801,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure
arising from:       Ensuring the UK public record - past and future - remains
authentic, available and accessible to all including; providing leadership and
support to the archive sector across England and Wales; leading on policy and
best practice in knowledge and information management for the public sector;
setting standards and driving forward the public sector information re-use
agenda; official publishing services for the whole of government including
publishing all UK legislation and making it accessible online;  managing Crown
and Parliamentary copyright; administration of The National Archives and other
non-cash items.           Income arising from:       Sale of copies of
documents; sale of publications and other items and services; professional
fees; fees receivable from service providers; sale of non-current assets;
grants received to carry out specific projects; reproduction fees and
royalties for the publication of images; Crown copyright fees and royalties;
fees for the management of third parties' copyright; fees for the management
of the Office of the King's Printer for Scotland; income from contractual
arrangements for official publishing and partnerships to make historical
records electronically accessible; sales and recovery of costs for
goods/services provided to other government departments; public bodies and the
general public; and donations from the public in support of the work of The
National Archives.

  United Kingdom Supreme Court, 2023-24   United Kingdom Supreme Court
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   United
Kingdom Supreme Court Departmental Expenditure Limit 4,773,000 3,254,000
Annually Managed Expenditure 1,000,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 6,577,000 Total 5,773,000 3,254,000 6,577,000   Departmental
Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:       Operation of the UK
Supreme Court (UKSC), Judicial Committee of the Privy Council (JCPC).
Education and outreach activities of the UKSC, JCPC and the United Kingdom's
legal and constitutional system, costs associated with Wider Market
Initiatives, cost of running selection commissions for the appointment of the
Justices and maintenance of links with apex courts in other countries. The
modernisation of the UKSC and JCPC systems and processes to improve court
users' experience, increase transparency and public trust and bolster the
UKSC's reputation as a world leading Court.           Income arising from:
Court fees and receipts, contributions from the devolved government and court
services in England and Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland, to contribute
to the cost of the administration of justice in the UK Supreme Court and
Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, receipts of VAT refunds on contracted
out services and receipts from Wider Market Initiatives, recovery of staff
costs for staff on loan or seconded to outside bodies, payments for
information and publications, postal and bank charge recoveries, receipts from
shop sales, and any other miscellaneous income.             Annually Managed
Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Diminution in value of
assets.

  Government Actuary's Department, 2023-24   Government Actuary's Department
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Government
Actuary's Department Departmental Expenditure Limit 235,000 9,850,000 Annually
Managed Expenditure 30,000 370,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 8,503,000 Total 265,000 10,220,000 8,503,000   Departmental
Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:       Administration costs
incurred in providing actuarial and specialist analysis, advice and assurance
to Government and other clients, principally in the public sector, and
associated non-cash items.           Income arising from:       Receipts for
providing actuarial and specialist analysis, advice and assurance in a range
of areas, including employer-sponsored pension arrangements and other employee
benefits, social insurance, health care financing arrangements, risk
management and strategic investment, asset/liability considerations, pension
and insurance regulation etc. as well as accommodation and facilities
management services.             Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       The setting up and use of provisions and other
associated non-cash items.

  Office of Gas and Electricity Markets, 2023-24   Office of Gas and
Electricity Markets       Estimate Net resources authorised for current
purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement
(£) (£) (£)   Office of Gas and Electricity Markets Departmental Expenditure
Limit 24,123,000 2,500,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 41,857,000 Total 24,123,000 2,500,000
41,857,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:
Administrative and operational costs; development and administration of
licensed regimes and industry processes; payments to other government
departments; co-operation with international regulators; services to other
government and energy related organisations; administration and payments made
under the Green Gas Support Scheme; administration of energy efficiency,
offshore transmission and other environmental schemes; regulation of and
participation in the Smart Meter programme; payments in relation to legal
costs arising from regulatory duties; adjustments to provisions; depreciation
and other non-cash items in DEL. Notional expenditure relating to the Supplier
of Last Resort (SoLR) levy.           Income arising from:       Gas and
electricity licence fees; receipts in respect of the administration of the
Offshore Tender regime; income from fees and charges levied under the Gas Act
1986 and the Electricity Act 1989, as amended by the Utilities Act 2000;
income from fees and charges levied under the Green Gas Support Scheme; bank
interest, receipts in respect of letting, disposal, vacation or occupation of
accommodation; income from services to other government and energy related
organisations; bank interest and other cost recovery receipts. Notional income
relating to the Supplier of Last Resort (SoLR) levy.

  Office of Rail and Road, 2023-24   Office of Rail and Road       Estimate
Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for
capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Office of Rail and Road
Departmental Expenditure Limit 1,000 720,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0
Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 2,000,000 Total 1,000 720,000
2,000,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:
Administration of ORR, its support establishments, all associates of non-cash
items and all activities as the combined economic and safety regulator
including health and safety matters, the regulation of access to railways, the
regulation of HS1 stations, the promotion of rail services, efficiencies and
economy for those providing railway services, protecting the interests of
railway services and railway users, payment of the apprenticeship levy,
sponsorship of the Rail Ombudsman and providing advice on the future funding
framework for Transport for London.       All activities as highways monitor
with responsibility for monitoring and enforcing the performance and
efficiency of National Highways' delivery of the government's roads investment
strategy and its management and operation of the strategic road network.
Support for activities as highways monitor.       Acting as the appeal body,
controlling the network statement, monitoring the competitive situation of
rail services, and overseeing the efficient management and fair and non-
discriminatory use of rail infrastructure for Northern Ireland and for the
infrastructure manager of Core Valley's Lines.           Income arising from:
Regulatory licences, concession agreements, levies, subscription fees, charges
for courses and officers loaned to other organisations, income from High Speed
1 Limited; Channel Tunnel Intergovernmental Commission; Channel Tunnel
Authority; NIR Networks Limited, Amey Keolis Infrastructure/Selwaith Amey
Keolis Limited, Transport for Wales, and government grants.       Income from
recovery actions in connection with the successful legal cases. Charges for
rental, administrative and other services, and other activities to other
government departments, executive and non-executive non-departmental public
bodies. Overhead recharges. Grant funding from the Department for Transport in
respect of the monitoring and enforcing the performance of National Highways
including its delivery of the government's road investment strategy and its
management and operation of the strategic road network, and for providing
advice on the future funding framework for Transport for London.

  Water Services Regulation Authority, 2023-24   Water Services Regulation
Authority       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Water Services Regulation Authority Departmental Expenditure Limit 160,000
860,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 11,020,000 Total 160,000 860,000 11,020,000   Departmental
Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:       Regulation of, and
the application of competition law to, the water and sewerage industry in
England and Wales. Administration and operation costs of the department,
including depreciation, pension payments, provisions and other non-cash items.
Payments in relation to legal costs arising from carrying out legal functions
including regulatory and/or competition functions.           Income arising
from:       Regulatory licence fees and otherwise recovering Ofwat's costs and
expenses associated with the regulation of, and being a competition authority
in relation to, the water and sewerage industry in England and Wales.
Contributions towards former Director Generals' pension payments.
Recovery in respect of administration and operation costs of the department,
including salary recovery for staff on loan or seconded, contributions
relating to participants' share of collaborative projects, sale of fixed
assets and any other miscellaneous cost recovery receipts.

  Export Credits Guarantee Department, 2023-24   Export Credits Guarantee
Department       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Export Credits Guarantee Department Departmental Expenditure Limit 1,000
3,540,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 1,633,343,000 2,035,967,000 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 2,672,890,000 Total 1,633,344,000
2,039,507,000 2,672,890,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:       The running of ECGD's operational activity
(operating costs of the Department), including Governmental response to the
coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic.           Income arising from:       Some
underwriting activity, notional income in respect of the Apprenticeship Levy
and sponsorship income raised to defray specific marketing costs.
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:
Arrangements made by ECGD for supporting or developing UK exports, for
insuring UK investments overseas and for transaction and portfolio management,
and expenditure arising from the creation and increase in provisions related
to ECGD's operational activities.           Income arising from:
Arrangements made by ECGD for supporting or developing UK exports, for
insuring UK investments overseas for transaction and portfolio management, and
income arising from the release of and decrease in provisions related to
ECGD's operational activities.

  Office of the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration and the Health
Service Commissioner for England, 2023-24   Office of the Parliamentary
Commissioner for Administration and the Health Service Commissioner for
England       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Office of the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration and the Health
Service Commissioner for England Departmental Expenditure Limit 41,620,000
11,748,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 783,000 380,000 Non-budget Expenditure
0 Net Cash Requirement 42,665,000 Total 42,403,000 12,128,000 42,665,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:
Operational and administration costs, capital expenditure, and associated
depreciation and other non- cash costs falling in DEL.           Income
arising from:       Monies received from the recovery of costs or
miscellaneous income not classified elsewhere.             Annually Managed
Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Use of provisions,
including provisions for onerous leases, early departure, legal costs and
dilapidations.

  House of Lords, 2023-24   House of Lords       Estimate Net resources
authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes
Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   House of Lords Departmental Expenditure
Limit 165,775,000 36,471,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 1,000 0 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 184,517,000 Total 165,776,000 36,471,000
184,517,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:
Members' expenses and allowances; administrative and accommodation costs,
including staff salaries and pensions; security; stationery; printing;
financial assistance to opposition parties; grants and grants-in-aid to
Parliamentary bodies and organisations who promote the House of Lords'
objectives; and associated depreciation and any other non-cash costs falling
in DEL.           Income arising from:       Catering and retail sales; rental
income; reproductions of works of art; pension scheme related income; fees;
income from the sale of assets; other charges and receipts in connection with
parliamentary activities.             Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       Pensions; administrative and accommodation
costs; and provisions and other non-cash costs falling in AME.

  House of Commons: Members, 2023-24   House of Commons: Members
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   House of
Commons: Members Departmental Expenditure Limit 19,351,000 0 Annually Managed
Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 19,330,000 Total
19,351,000 0 19,330,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure
arising from:       The House of Commons Members' Estimate is to cover
expenditure arising from: financial assistance to Opposition parties to
support them in the discharge of their Parliamentary or representative
functions; the Exchequer contribution to the Parliamentary Contributory
Pension Fund (PCPF); payroll costs of Members appointed to specific
parliamentary duties, and other non-cash costs.

  Crown Estate Office, 2023-24   Crown Estate Office       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Crown Estate Office Departmental
Expenditure Limit 0 0 Annually Managed Expenditure 2,366,000 0 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 2,357,000 Total 2,366,000 0 2,357,000
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       A
contribution to the salary and administrative costs of the Crown Estate
Commissioners and associated non-cash items.

  Armed Forces Pension and Compensation Schemes, 2023-24   Armed Forces
Pension and Compensation Schemes       Estimate Net resources authorised for
current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Armed Forces Pension and Compensation Schemes
Departmental Expenditure Limit 0 0 Annually Managed Expenditure 5,077,658,000
0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 2,021,967,000 Total
5,077,658,000 0 2,021,967,000   Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       Payment of pensions, lump sum benefits,
transfers out and associated non-cash items to persons covered by the scheme.
Provision is also made for payment of those benefits outside the scheme: Short
Service Gratuities, Resettlement Grants and Criminal Injuries Compensation
Overseas.           Income arising from:       MOD employer contributions
(Superannuation Contributions Adjusted for Past Experience), Transfers In from
other schemes and purchases of added years.

  Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office: Overseas Superannuation,
2023-24   Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office: Overseas
Superannuation       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes
Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office: Overseas Superannuation
Departmental Expenditure Limit 0 0 Annually Managed Expenditure 26,000,000 0
Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 42,000,000 Total 26,000,000 0
42,000,000   Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:
Pension and superannuation payments, grants and compensation payments, etc. in
respect of overseas services; pensions for beneficiaries of certain former
overseas pension funds for which the UK assumed responsibility; pensions for
beneficiaries and former beneficiaries of the Gibraltar Social Insurance Fund;
contributions to pension funds guaranteed by the UK; refund of contributions
made by overseas governments; war service credit; and associated non-cash
items such as adjustments to pension scheme liabilities like interest on
outstanding scheme liabilities.

  National Health Service Pension Scheme, 2023-24   National Health Service
Pension Scheme       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes
Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
National Health Service Pension Scheme Departmental Expenditure Limit 0 0
Annually Managed Expenditure 17,964,134,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net
Cash Requirement -4,073,888,000 Total 17,964,134,000 0 -4,073,888,000
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Pensions,
allowances, gratuities, transfers to alternative pension arrangements, refunds
of contributions, compensation for early retirement, to or in respect of
persons engaged in health services or in other approved employment and other
cash and non-cash items.           Income arising from:       Pension
contributions, inward transfer values, employer contributions relating to the
Compensation for Premature Retirement Scheme, cost of scheme administration
levy, from or in respect of persons engaged in health services or in other
approved employment.

  Teachers' Pension Scheme (England and Wales), 2023-24   Teachers' Pension
Scheme (England and Wales)       Estimate Net resources authorised for current
purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement
(£) (£) (£)   Teachers' Pension Scheme (England and Wales) Departmental
Expenditure Limit 0 0 Annually Managed Expenditure 10,978,953,000 0 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 2,388,184,000 Total 10,978,953,000 0
2,388,184,000   Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:
Superannuation allowances and gratuities, and other related expenditure, in
respect of teachers and the widows, widowers, children and dependants of
deceased teachers, and for premature retirement and compensation payments made
to members of the Teachers' Pension Scheme and on behalf of their employers,
the cost of paying the Department for Education to administer the scheme; and
associated non-cash items.           Income arising from:       Receipts from
employers' and employees' superannuation contributions; transfer values
received; deductions from returns of contributions towards payment in lieu of
graduated national insurance contributions equivalent premiums; recovery of
contributions equivalent premiums from the state pension scheme; amounts
received from employers of teachers' scheme members in reimbursement of the
cost of premature retirement compensation payments on their behalf by Capita;
receipt of administration charge from employers for the specific purpose of
meeting the costs of administering the scheme.

  UK Atomic Energy Authority Pension Schemes, 2023-24   UK Atomic Energy
Authority Pension Schemes       Estimate Net resources authorised for current
purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement
(£) (£) (£)   UK Atomic Energy Authority Pension Schemes Departmental
Expenditure Limit 0 0 Annually Managed Expenditure 246,600,000 0 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 257,400,000 Total 246,600,000 0 257,400,000
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Payments
of pensions etc. to members of the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority
pension schemes, related expenditure and non-cash items.           Income
arising from:       Receipts of employees' and employers' contributions and
inward transfers.

  Ministry of Justice: Judicial Pensions Scheme, 2023-24   Ministry of
Justice: Judicial Pensions Scheme       Estimate Net resources authorised for
current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Ministry of Justice: Judicial Pensions Scheme
Departmental Expenditure Limit 0 0 Annually Managed Expenditure 188,935,000 0
Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement -105,576,000 Total 188,935,000 0
-105,576,000   Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:
Pensions etc, in respect of members of the Judicial Pensions Scheme, and for
other related services.           Income arising from:       Accruing
Superannuation Liability Charges (ASLCs); and scheme members' pension
contributions.

  Cabinet Office: Civil Superannuation, 2023-24   Cabinet Office: Civil
Superannuation       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes
Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Cabinet Office: Civil Superannuation Departmental Expenditure Limit 0 0
Annually Managed Expenditure 9,961,000,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 1,002,500,000 Total 9,961,000,000 0 1,002,500,000   Annually
Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       The superannuation
of civil servants; pensions etc., and other pensions and non-recurrent
payments, for other related services and related non-cash items.
Income arising from:       Charges received from departments and others on
account of the cost of pension cover provided for their staff. Periodical
contributions for widows', widowers', and dependants' benefits. Other
superannuation contributions, transfer values and bulk transfer receipts.

  Royal Mail Statutory Pension Scheme, 2023-24   Royal Mail Statutory Pension
Scheme       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Royal Mail Statutory Pension Scheme Departmental Expenditure Limit 0 0
Annually Managed Expenditure 1,279,000,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 1,692,000,000 Total 1,279,000,000 0 1,692,000,000   Annually
Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Payment of
pensions etc to members of the Royal Mail Statutory Pension Scheme, related
expenditure and non-cash items.

  House of Commons: Administration, 2023-24   House of Commons: Administration
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   House of
Commons: Administration Departmental Expenditure Limit equivalent 401,026,000
150,892,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 492,433,000 Total 401,026,000 150,892,000 492,433,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit equivalent         Expenditure arising from:
General administration of the House of Commons and activities undertaken to
meet Parliament's objectives, associated commercial activities; grants to
organisations who promote the House of Commons' objectives and other non-cash
costs.           Income arising from:       Rental, fees and charges in
connection with activities within Parliament.

  Parliamentary Works Grant, 2023-24   Parliamentary Works Grant
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Parliamentary Works Grant Departmental Expenditure Limit equivalent 85,500,000
100,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 85,600,000 Total 85,500,000 100,000 85,600,000   Departmental
Expenditure Limit equivalent         Expenditure arising from:       Paying of
a grant to the Delivery Authority to support its activities and operations in
delivering the restoration and renewal programme of the Palace of Westminster
and related works on behalf of the Houses of Parliament, including all
necessary costs incurred and the audit costs associated with both this
Estimate and the Delivery Authority.           Income arising from:       Any
income arising from the sale of goods and services or the secondment of staff
in furthering the delivery of the restoration and renewal programme.

  National Audit Office, 2023-24   National Audit Office       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   National Audit Office Departmental
Expenditure Limit equivalent 91,100,000 3,700,000 Annually Managed Expenditure
0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 91,234,000 Total 91,100,000
3,700,000 91,234,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit equivalent
Expenditure arising from:       Expenditure and associated non-cash items
incurred in the provision of independent assurance and information to
Parliament on the proper accounting for central government expenditure,
revenue, assets and liabilities, including compliance with laws and
regulations, and in the economy, efficiency and effectiveness with which
central government resources have been used; and the provision of independent
assurance and information and advice to a wide range of other public,
international, and overseas bodies and to members of the public.
Income arising from:       The provision of audit and assurance services to a
range of organisations, including international and overseas bodies, and
income from the rental of surplus office space, income arising from the
disposal of assets and miscellaneous receipts.

  The Electoral Commission, 2023-24   The Electoral Commission       Estimate
Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for
capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   The Electoral Commission
Departmental Expenditure Limit 28,755,000 2,005,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 50,000 100,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement
29,133,000 Total 28,805,000 2,105,000 29,133,000   Departmental Expenditure
Limit         Expenditure arising from:       Registration of political
parties, recognised third parties and permitted participants; regulation and
reporting of the income and expenditure of political parties, candidates,
third parties and permitted participants; making grants to eligible parties
for policy development; reviewing and advising on the administration and law
of elections and encouraging best practice; providing guidance, and reporting,
on the conduct of elections and referendums; determining standards of
performance for those administering electoral registration, elections and
referendums, and collecting information in relation to those standards and to
expenditure on elections and campaigning; conducting certain referendums and
promoting public awareness of electoral systems.           Income arising
from:       Registration and re-registration of political parties; providing
guidance, and reporting, on the conduct of elections and referendums;
determining standards of performance for those administering electoral
registration, elections and referendums, and collecting information in
relation to those standards and to expenditure on elections and campaigning;
conducting certain referendums and promoting public awareness of electoral
systems, including Devolved Administrations; and any other non-cash items.
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:
Provisions, impairments and other non-cash costs arising in AME. Provisions
include early departures, obligations under office and other leases, pension
and tax and national insurance on benefits in kind.

  Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority, 2023-24   Independent
Parliamentary Standards Authority       Estimate Net resources authorised for
current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority
Departmental Expenditure Limit 250,389,000 250,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 150,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement
250,112,000 Total 250,539,000 250,000 250,112,000   Departmental Expenditure
Limit         Expenditure arising from:       Operation and administration of
the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority (IPSA), and all activities
connected to its purpose. Determination and operation of a business costs and
expenses scheme for Members of Parliament, payment of: the salaries, business
costs and expenses of Members of Parliament and their staff. Determination of
policy for the administration and salaries and pensions for Members of
Parliament. Conducting reviews and investigations carried out under the
auspices of the Office of the Compliance Officer. Depreciation and other non-
cash costs. The reimbursement of travel and subsistence costs for meeting
attendance of IPSA appointed managers of the UK MEP Pension Scheme.
Income arising from:       Funding received from the House to cover the costs
of interns employed by some MPs. Miscellaneous repayments made under the MPs'
Scheme of Business Costs and Expenses.             Annually Managed
Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Provisions and
impairments.

  The Local Government Boundary Commission for England, 2023-24   The Local
Government Boundary Commission for England       Estimate Net resources
authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes
Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   The Local Government Boundary Commission
for England Departmental Expenditure Limit 2,633,000 50,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 10,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 2,599,000
Total 2,643,000 50,000 2,599,000   Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:       Administration and operational cost and
associated non-cash items, planning for and carrying out the functions and
duties imposed on it by, or by virtue of, the Local Government and Public
Involvement in Health Act 2007, the Local Democracy, Economic Development and
Construction Act 2009 and the Greater London Authority Act 1999: these
functions and duties include undertaking electoral reviews of local
authorities in England and implementing any changes by Order; undertaking
reviews of the administrative boundaries of local authorities in England and
making recommendations to the Secretary of State for any changes; providing
advice, at their request, to the Secretary of State on any proposals they
receive from local authorities for a change to unitary status; undertaking
reviews of the constituencies of the Greater London Assembly and implementing
any changes by Order; altering the boundaries of district council or London
borough wards and county council divisions as a consequence of the outcome of
community governance reviews conducted by local authorities in England; and
making Orders to implement proposals from local authorities wishing to move to
elections by thirds or by halves.             Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       Provision.

