Title: Supported Housing (Regulatory Oversight) Act 2023
Date: 2023-10-18
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/26

## Supported Housing (Regulatory Oversight) Act 2023

      B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Advice, strategy and standards

#### Supported Housing Advisory Panel

1

1.1

The Secretary of State must appoint a panel of persons, to be known as “ the
Supported Housing Advisory Panel ”, to provide information and advice about or
in connection with supported exempt accommodation to—

1.1.a

the Secretary of State,

1.1.b

local housing authorities in England, and

1.1.c

social services authorities in England.

1.2

The persons appointed under subsection (1) must include—

1.2.a

at least one person who appears to the Secretary of State to represent the
interests of registered providers of social housing in England,

1.2.b

at least one person who appears to the Secretary of State to represent the
interests of local housing authorities in England,

1.2.c

at least one person who appears to the Secretary of State to represent the
interests of social services authorities in England,

1.2.d

at least one person who appears to the Secretary of State to represent the
interests of charities providing supported exempt accommodation, and

1.2.e

at least one person who appears to the Secretary of State to represent the
interests of residents (or potential residents) of supported exempt
accommodation;

but the Secretary of State is not required to appoint different persons under
each of  paragraphs (a)  to  (e) .

1.3

The Secretary of State must, after complying with  subsection (2) , and after
consulting the existing members of the panel, appoint a person to chair the
panel, and the person becomes a member of the panel on appointment.

1.4

The Secretary of State must comply with  subsections (1)  to  (3)  before the
end of the period of one year beginning with the date on which this Act is
passed.

1.5

The panel—

1.5.a

must provide information or advice on such matters within  subsection (1) , to
such persons within that subsection, as the Secretary of State may direct, and

1.5.b

subject to that, may provide such information or advice within  subsection (1)
, to such persons within that subsection, as it considers appropriate (whether
or not requested to do so).

1.6

A member of the panel is to hold and vacate office in accordance with the
terms and conditions of the member’s appointment which—

1.6.a

must include provision requiring the member to declare any financial or other
personal interest relevant to the functions of the panel, and

1.6.b

may include provision under which the member is paid remuneration or
allowances.

1.7

A person appointed to the panel under  subsection (1)  or  (3) —

1.7.a

is to be appointed for a term not exceeding five years, and

1.7.b

may, upon expiry of that term, be reappointed for one further term not
exceeding five years.

1.8

In  this section  “ information and advice about or in connection with
supported exempt accommodation ” includes information and advice about
anything which, in the view of the panel, could have a significant impact on
the provision or regulation of supported exempt accommodation.

#### Local supported housing strategies

2

2.1

A local housing authority in England must—

2.1.a

carry out a review of the supported exempt accommodation in its district, and

2.1.b

in the light of that review, publish a strategy, to be known as a “supported
housing strategy”, for the provision of supported exempt accommodation in its
district.

2.2

A local housing authority—

2.2.a

must comply with  subsection (1)  before such date as may be specified in
regulations made by the Secretary of State, and

2.2.b

subsequently, must comply with that subsection before the end of each five-
year period beginning with the day on which it published its most recent
supported housing strategy.

2.3

A supported housing strategy must, in particular, include—

2.3.a

the local housing authority’s assessment of—

2.3.a.i

the current availability of supported exempt accommodation in its district,
and

2.3.a.ii

the likely need for supported exempt accommodation in its district during the
period of five years beginning with the date on which the strategy is
published;

2.3.b

such other matters as may be specified in regulations made by the Secretary of
State.

2.4

The social services authority in respect of a district in England must give
the local housing authority for that district (where that is a different
authority) such assistance in connection with the carrying out of its duties
under  this section  as the local housing authority may reasonably require.

2.5

A local housing authority in England must have regard to its supported housing
strategy in the exercise of its functions.

2.6

A social services authority in England must, in the exercise of its social
services functions—

2.6.a

where it is also a local housing authority, have regard to its supported
housing strategy, or

2.6.b

in any other case, have regard to the supported housing strategy of each local
housing authority in respect of whose district it is the social services
authority.

2.7

The Secretary of State may issue guidance—

2.7.a

applicable to local housing authorities or social services authorities
generally, or

2.7.b

applicable to specified descriptions of local housing authorities or social
services authorities,

in relation to the exercise of their functions under  this section .

2.8

A local housing authority or a social services authority must have regard to
any guidance issued under  subsection (7)  that is applicable to it.

2.9

A statutory instrument containing regulations under this section is subject to
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

#### National Supported Housing Standards

3

3.1

The Secretary of State may prepare and publish national standards for England,
to be known as “ National Supported Housing Standards ”, in relation to any
aspect of the provision of supported exempt accommodation.

3.2

National Supported Housing Standards may, in particular, set minimum standards
in respect of—

3.2.a

the type or condition of premises used for the provision of supported exempt
accommodation, or

3.2.b

the provision of care, support or supervision at supported exempt
accommodation.

3.3

The Secretary of State must keep National Supported Housing Standards under
review and may, whenever the Secretary of State considers appropriate—

3.3.a

prepare and publish amended or replacement standards, or

3.3.b

withdraw standards.

3.4

The Secretary of State may publish or withdraw a standard by such means as the
Secretary of State considers appropriate for bringing the publication or
withdrawal to the attention of persons likely to be affected by it.

### Licensing

#### Licensing regulations

4

4.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision under which a person
having control of, or managing, supported exempt accommodation—

4.1.a

that is within  section 12 (2) , and

4.1.b

that is located in a district that is designated for the purposes of the
regulations,

must obtain and comply with a licence granted by the local housing authority
for the district.

4.2

If, at the end of the period of one year beginning with the day on which this
Act is passed, the power in subsection (1) is yet to be exercised, the
Secretary of State must publish, in such manner as the Secretary of State
thinks fit, a report setting out the progress that has been made towards doing
so.

4.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision under which a person
having control of, or managing, supported exempt accommodation—

4.3.a

that is not within  section 12 (2) , and

4.3.b

that is located in a district that is designated for the purposes of the
regulations,

must obtain and comply with a licence granted by the local housing authority
for the district.

4.4

Regulations under subsection  (1)  or  (3) —

4.4.a

must include provision under which a local housing authority may designate its
district for the purposes of the regulations,

4.4.b

may include provision requiring a local authority to designate its district
for the purposes of the regulations if conditions specified in the regulations
are met, and

4.4.c

may include provision under which the Secretary of State may designate, or
revoke a designation of, a local housing authority’s district for the purposes
of the regulations.

4.5

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (4) (c)  includes
provision for the Secretary of State to designate the district of every local
housing authority in England.

4.6

Regulations under subsection  (1)  or  (3)  must be made with a view to
securing that National Supported Housing Standards (if any) are met.

4.7

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  this section  may not be
made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by a
resolution of each House of Parliament.

4.8

In this Act—

      “ the licensing authority ” means the local housing authority for a
district designated for the purposes of licensing regulations;           “
licensing regulations ” means regulations under subsection  (1)  or  (3) .

#### Further provision about licensing regulations

5

5.1

Licensing regulations may include—

5.1.a

provision about how a district is to be designated for the purposes of the
regulations, and the duration, review and revocation of a designation;

5.1.b

provision about how an application for a licence is to be made, and the
circumstances in which a licence may be granted, varied or revoked;

5.1.c

provision about conditions that may be attached to a licence;

5.1.d

provision about the enforcement of the regulations and of the conditions
attached to licences, including provision creating criminal offences
punishable with a fine;

5.1.e

provision about other consequences of compliance or non-compliance with the
regulations or with conditions attached to licences;

5.1.f

provision about exemptions from requirements that would otherwise be imposed
under or by virtue of the regulations;

5.1.g

provision requiring or permitting the licensing authority to charge fees
sufficient to meet the costs of performing any of the authority’s functions
under or by virtue of the regulations;

5.1.h

provision conferring a discretion on the licensing authority;

5.1.i

provision about appeals against decisions made by the licensing authority;

5.1.j

any other provision corresponding or similar to any provision relating to
licences contained in Part 2 of the Housing Act 2004 (licensing of houses in
multiple occupation) or Part 3 of that Act (licensing of other residential
accommodation).

5.2

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (1) (b)  includes—

5.2.a

provision requiring an application for a licence to be refused unless the
licensing authority is satisfied that the applicant is a fit and proper person
to be a person having control of, or managing, the accommodation to which the
licence relates;

5.2.b

provision requiring a licence to be revoked if the licensing authority ceases
to be so satisfied.

5.3

The conditions that may be attached to a licence by virtue of  subsection (1)
(c)  include—

5.3.a

conditions relating to the standard of accommodation;

5.3.b

conditions relating to the use of accommodation;

5.3.c

conditions requiring the carrying out of assessments of the needs of residents
(or potential residents) and relating to the conduct of such assessments;

5.3.d

conditions relating to the provision of care, support or supervision;

5.3.e

conditions requiring compliance with National Supported Housing Standards
(whenever published).

5.4

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (1) (d)  includes
provision for an offence under the regulations to be—

5.4.a

a relevant housing offence for the purposes of section 249A of the Housing Act
2004 (financial penalties for certain housing offences in England);

5.4.b

a banning order offence for the purposes of Chapters 2 and 3 of Part 2 of the
Housing and Planning Act 2016 (banning orders and database of rogue landlords
etc);

5.4.c

an offence to which Chapter 4 of that Part of that Act (rent repayment orders)
applies.

5.5

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (1) (e)  includes
provision—

5.5.a

disapplying any requirement relating to licences imposed by or under Part 2 of
the Housing Act 2004 (licensing of houses in multiple occupation) or Part 3 of
that Act (licensing of other residential accommodation),

5.5.b

removing or restricting an entitlement to housing benefit, or

5.5.c

limiting the rent that may be determined under section 14 of the Housing Act
1988 (determination of rent by tribunal) in respect of such accommodation.

5.6

Subsection  (5) (b)  is without prejudice to any other power to make
subordinate legislation relating to housing benefit.

5.7

Licensing regulations may—

5.7.a

amend, repeal or revoke any enactment;

5.7.b

make different provision for different purposes or different areas;

5.7.c

make supplementary, incidental, consequential, transitional or saving
provision.

#### Consultation

6

6.1

The Secretary of State must consult the statutory consultees—

6.1.a

before first exercising the power in  section 4 (1)  to make licensing
regulations, and

6.1.b

before first exercising the power in section  4 (3)  to make licensing
regulations.

6.2

The Secretary of State must, as part of a consultation under  subsection (1) —

6.2.a

set out how the Secretary of State proposes to approach the matters referred
to in section  5 (1) (a)  to  (i)  when making the licensing regulations, and

6.2.b

ask the statutory consultees for their views on those proposals.

6.3

The Secretary of State must also, as part of a consultation under  subsection
(1) , ask the statutory consultees for their views on—

6.3.a

whether the proposed regulations are likely to be an effective means of
securing that National Supported Housing Standards are met, and

6.3.b

any additional mechanisms for securing compliance with such standards.

6.4

In  this section  “ the statutory consultees ” means—

6.4.a

each local housing authority in England,

6.4.b

each social services authority in England,

6.4.c

the National Housing Federation, and

6.4.d

the Regulator of Social Housing.

#### Local housing authority functions

7

A local housing authority must, in the exercise of its functions under
licensing regulations, have regard to—

7.a

National Supported Housing Standards (if any), and

7.b

any guidance issued by the Secretary of State for the purposes of  this
section .

### Planning and homelessness

#### Planning

8

The Secretary of State must, before the end of the period of three years
beginning with the date on which the first licensing regulations under
section 4 (1)  are made—

8.a

review the effect of licensing regulations under  section 4 (1)  on—

8.a.i

the type and condition of premises used for the provision of accommodation
within  section 12 (2) , and

8.a.ii

the provision of care, support and supervision at such accommodation, and

8.b

in the light of that review, consider whether to exercise the power in section
55(2)(f) of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (power to specify use-
class) to specify such accommodation as a class.

#### Homelessness

9

In section 191 of the Housing Act 1996 (becoming homeless intentionally),
after subsection (1) insert—

9.1A

But a person does not become homeless intentionally if—

9.1A.a

the accommodation the person ceases to occupy is supported exempt
accommodation,

9.1A.b

the person’s reason for ceasing to occupy the accommodation relates to the
standard of the accommodation, or the standard of care, support or supervision
provided there, and

9.1A.c

the accommodation, or the care, support or supervision provided there, does
not meet National Supported Housing Standards.

“ Supported exempt accommodation ” has the meaning given by section 12 of the
Supported Housing (Regulatory Oversight) Act 2023.

### Information

#### Sharing of information relating to supported exempt accommodation

10

10.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the sharing of
information relating to supported exempt accommodation.

10.2

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may make provision requiring or authorising
a person within  subsection (3)  to provide information specified in the
regulations to another person within that subsection.

10.3

The persons are—

10.3.a

a local housing authority in England;

10.3.b

a registered provider of social housing in England;

10.3.c

the Regulator of Social Housing;

10.3.d

the Secretary of State.

10.4

Regulations under  subsection (1)  must provide that information obtained by
virtue of the regulations may be used only for a purpose connected with the
exercise of a function under or by virtue of this Act, or otherwise relating
to supported exempt accommodation.

10.5

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may provide that information obtained by a
local housing authority by virtue of the regulations may be provided to a
person who supplies services to the authority for a purpose mentioned in
subsection (4) .

10.6

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may not impose or confer a duty or power
requiring or authorising the provision or use of information where the
provision or use would (taking the duty or power into account) contravene the
data protection legislation.

10.7

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  subsection (1)  is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

#### Use of information obtained for certain statutory purposes

11

11.1

A local housing authority in England may use any information to which this
section applies—

11.1.a

for any purpose connected with the exercise of any of the authority’s
functions under or by virtue of this Act, or otherwise relating to specified
exempt accommodation, or

11.1.b

for the purpose of investigating whether any offence has been committed by
virtue of this Act.

11.2

This section applies to any information which has been obtained by the
authority in the exercise of functions under—

11.2.a

section 134 of the Social Security Administration Act 1992 (housing benefit),
or

11.2.b

Part 1 of the Local Government Finance Act 1992 (council tax).

11.3

This section does not authorise the use of information if the use would
(taking the powers conferred by this section into account) contravene the data
protection legislation.

### Interpretation and final provisions

#### Meaning of “supported exempt accommodation”

12

12.1

In this Act “ supported exempt accommodation ” means—

12.1.a

accommodation within  subsection (2) ,

12.1.b

managed properties in England,

12.1.c

refuges in England, or

12.1.d

local authority hostels in England.

12.2

The accommodation within this subsection is accommodation in England—

12.2.a

which is a resettlement place provided by persons to whom the Secretary of
State has given assistance by way of grant pursuant to section 30 of the
Jobseekers Act 1995 (grants for resettlement places), or

12.2.b

which is provided by—

12.2.b.i

a non-metropolitan county council in England,

12.2.b.ii

a housing association,

12.2.b.iii

a registered charity, or

12.2.b.iv

a voluntary organisation,

where that body, or a person acting on its behalf, also provides a person
resident in the accommodation with care, support or supervision.

12.3

A “managed property” is accommodation—

12.3.a

which is provided by a relevant body,

12.3.b

into which a person has been admitted in order to meet a need for care,
support or supervision, and

12.3.c

where that person receives care, support or supervision.

12.4

A “refuge” is accommodation which—

12.4.a

is provided by a relevant authority or a relevant body to a person because the
person has left their home as a result of domestic violence, and

12.4.b

consists of a building, or part of a building, which is used wholly or mainly
for the non-permanent accommodation of persons who have left their homes as a
result of domestic violence.

12.5

A “local authority hostel” is accommodation—

12.5.a

which would be a hostel within the meaning given by paragraph 29(10) of
Schedule 4 to the Universal Credit Regulations 2013 ( S.I. 2013/376 ) (renters
excepted from shared accommodation) but for it being owned or managed by a
relevant authority, and

12.5.b

where a person resident in the accommodation receives care, support or
supervision.

12.6

In  this section —

      “ domestic violence ” has the meaning given by regulation 2(1) of the
Housing Benefit Regulations 2006 ( S.I. 2006/213 );           “ housing
association ” has the meaning given by section 1 of the Housing Associations
Act 1985;           “ non-metropolitan county council ” has the meaning given
by section 1 of the Local Government Act 1972;           “ relevant authority
” means an authority administering housing benefit;           “ relevant body
” means—         a council for a county in England for each part of whose area
there is a district council,           a housing association,           a
registered charity, or           a voluntary organisation;                 “
resettlement place ” has the meaning given by section 30 of the Jobseekers Act
1995.

#### Other interpretation etc

13

13.1

In this Act—

      “ the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act);           “ district ” has
the same meaning as in the Housing Act 1985 (see section 2 of that Act);
“ the licensing authority ” has the meaning given by section  4 (7) ;
“ licensing regulations ” has the meaning given by section  4 (7) ;
“ local housing authority ” has the same meaning as in the Housing Act 1985
(see section 1 of that Act);           “ person having control ” has the same
meaning as in the Housing Act 2004 (see section 263 of that Act);           “
person managing ” has the same meaning as in the Housing Act 2004 (see section
263 of that Act);           “ registered provider of social housing ” has the
meaning given by section 80(2) of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008;
“ social services authority ” means a local authority for the purposes of the
Local Authority Social Services Act 1970 (see section 1 of that Act);
“ social services functions ”, in relation to a social services authority,
means the social services functions of that authority for the purposes of the
Local Authority Social Services Act 1970 (see section 2 of that Act).

13.2

Regulations under this Act are to be made by statutory instrument.

#### Commencement, extent and short title

14

14.1

This Act extends to England and Wales.

14.2

This Act comes into force at the end of the period of two months beginning
with the day on which it is passed.

14.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations make transitional or saving
provision in connection with the coming into force of any provision of this
Act.

14.4

The power to make regulations under  subsection (3)  includes power to make
different provision for different purposes.

14.5

This Act may be cited as the Supported Housing (Regulatory Oversight) Act
2023.

