Title: The Family Proceedings Fees (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-11-09
Description: This Order amends the Family Proceedings Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996 (S.R. 1996 No. 495) to increase the majority of fees payable in respect of specified family proceedings in the High Court and County Court over a two year period (9% increase effective from 1st November 2023, with a further 9% increase effective from 1st October 2024) and to include the fee for certification of a pending action for the purpose of registering it as a burden affecting land (Fee 11(b)).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/167

## The Family Proceedings Fees (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023

Family Proceedings Court Of Judicature County Court

Made 10th October 2023

Coming into operation 1st November 2023

The Department of Justice, in exercise of the powers conferred by section
116(1) of the Judicature (Northern Ireland) Act 1978  and now vested in it ,
makes the following Order with the concurrence of the Department of Finance .
The Department has, in accordance with section 116(1) of that Act, consulted
with the Lady Chief Justice.

### Citation and commencement


1

This Order may be cited as the Family Proceedings Fees (Amendment) Order
(Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation on 1st November 2023.

### Amendment of the Family Proceedings Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996


2

The Family Proceedings Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996  is amended as
follows.

3

For the Schedule substitute the new Schedule set out in the Schedule to this
Order.

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Justice on 10th October
2023 Richard Pengelly A senior officer of the Department of Justice The
Department of Finance concurs in the making of this Order. Sealed with the
Official Seal of the Department of Finance on 10th October 2023 Patrick Neeson
A senior officer of the Department of Finance

Article 3

Article 4

Fees to be taken in Family Proceedings  Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 Item Fee £
Document to be endorsed As from 01/11/23 As from 01/10/24 1. Commencement of
Proceedings (a) On sealing an originating summons 284.00 310.00 The filed copy
(b) On sealing any petition other than a second petition presented with leave
granted under rule 2.6(3) or (3A)— (i) When the petition is presented to the
High Court 284.00 310.00 The filed copy (ii) When the petition is presented to
a county court 284.00 310.00 The filed copy (c) On filing an answer/reply to a
petition/answer 142.00 155.00 The filed copy (d) Personal Application Fee for
a matrimonial interview 71.00 77.00 The requisition NOTE: Fees to include
provision for the number of initial copies required for service 2. Entering
and Setting Down for trial in court On entering or setting down any cause or
matter for trial, hearing or further consideration in court, except where it
is otherwise provided for in this Schedule (a) High Court petition 427.00
465.00 The setting down docket (b) County Court petition 356.00 388.00 The
setting down docket 3. Certificate of Decree Absolute or Final Order On filing
an application for a certificate of Decree Absolute or Making Conditional
Order Final 107.00 117.00 The filed copy 4. Proceedings under the Children
(Northern Ireland) Order 1995 On filing an application or requesting leave
under the following provisions of the Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995—
Parental Responsibility, Guardians, Article 8 orders (a) Article 7(1)(a) or
(4), 10(1) or (2), 159(1); The filed copy (i) High Court 142.00 155.00 (ii)
County Court 107.00 117.00 (b) Article 13(1) or 163(1) The filed copy (i) High
Court 107.00 117.00 (ii) County Court 82.00 89.00 Financial Provision for
Children (c) Paragraph 2(1), 3(1), 7(5), 16(1) of Schedule 1 The filed copy
(i) High Court 142.00 155.00 (ii) County Court 107.00 117.00 (d) Paragraph
2(4), 3(5), 6(6), 7(7), 7(8), 10(2), 12(2) or 13 of Schedule 1 (i) High Court
107.00 117.00 (ii) County Court 82.00 89.00 Secure Accommodation (e) Article
44 (i) High Court 142.00 155.00 (ii) County Court 107.00 117.00 Care,
Supervision etc (f) Article 50 The filed copy (i) High Court 142.00 155.00
(ii) County Court 107.00 117.00 (g) Article 52(7), 57(8)(b), 58(1), (2), (3)
or (4), paragraph 6(3) of Schedule 3 or paragraph 10(3) of Schedule 8 The
filed copy (i) High Court 107.00 117.00 (ii) County Court 82.00 89.00 Contact
with child in care (h) Article 53(2), (3), (4) or (9) The filed copy (i) High
Court 107.00 117.00 (ii) County Court 82.00 89.00 Placement abroad (i) Article
33(1) The filed copy (i) High Court 107.00 117.00 (ii) County Court 82.00
89.00 Education Supervision (j) Article 55(1) The filed copy (i) High Court
142.00 155.00 (ii) County Court 107.00 117.00 (k) Paragraph 5(2) or 7(1) of
Schedule 4 The filed copy (i) High Court 107.00 117.00 (ii) County Court 82.00
89.00 Child Assessment (l) Article 62(1) The filed copy (i) High Court 142.00
155.00 (ii) County Court 107.00 117.00 (m) Article 62(12) The filed copy (i)
High Court 107.00 117.00 (ii) County Court 82.00 89.00 Emergency Protection
(n) Article 63 (i) High Court 0.00 0.00 (ii) County Court 0.00 0.00 Recovery
of Children (o) Article 69 (i) High Court 142.00 155.00 (ii) County Court
107.00 117.00 Miscellaneous (p) Article 178 The filed copy (i) High Court
107.00 117.00 (ii) County Court 82.00 89.00 (q) On commencing an appeal under
Article 166 or Article 41(11) (i) to the County Court 107.00 117.00 (ii) to
the High Court 142.00 155.00 (r) On any application brought under form C2 (i)
High Court 107.00 117.00 (ii) County Court 82.00 89.00 NOTE: Where an
application requires leave of the court the relevant fee applies where leave
is sought but no further fee may be charged if leave is granted and the
application is made 5. Proceedings under the Family Homes and Domestic
Violence (Northern Ireland) Order 1998 (a) Application for a non-molestation
or occupation order (i) High Court 0.00 0.00 (ii) County Court 0.00 0.00 (b)
On an ex-parte (emergency) application 0.00 0.00 (c) On the full application
0.00 0.00 (d) Application under the Family Homes and Domestic Violence Order
not otherwise provided for 0.00 0.00 6. Application for Ancillary Relief On
filing a notice of application for ancillary relief The filed copy (i) High
Court 427.00 465.00 (ii) County Court 356.00 388.00 7. Other Application in
Proceedings (a) On any application in matrimonial proceedings or civil
partnership proceedings, except where it is otherwise provided for in this
Schedule, or is for an order by consent, made (i) to a Master 165.00 180.00
The filed copy (ii) to a judge 213.00 232.00 The filed copy (b) Ex-parte
application to remove a petitioner’s address from the petition 82.00 89.00 8.
Writ of Subpoena & Witness Summonses On sealing a writ of subpoena or issuing
a witness summons per person 43.00 47.00 The filed copy 9. Copies of Documents
On a copy, including a photographic copy, of all or any part of any document
not otherwise provided for— (a) five sheets or less 7.00 8.00 The requisition
(b) for each sheet thereafter 0.50 0.50 The requisition (c) on a copy
order/decree including certified or sealed 15.00 16.00 (d) on a copy
order/decree produced online 13.00 14.00 (e) on an audio recording in any
court proceedings – for each hour recorded or part thereof 37.00 40.00 10.
Searches and Inspections (a) On making a search in the index of Parental
Responsibility Agreements kept in the Office of Care and Protection in
accordance with regulations made under Article 7 of the Children (Northern
Ireland) Order 1995 and, if appropriate providing a copy of an agreement 28.00
31.00 The requisition (b) (i) On a search (including inspection) other than
one for which a fee is prescribed under 10(a) above 28.00 31.00 The
requisition (ii) Additional fee where the search is carried out by an Officer
of the court 15.00 16.00 (c) For an official certificate of the result of a
search in any index 43.00 47.00 The requisition 11. Miscellaneous (a) For
signing, settling or approving an advertisement 43.00 47.00 The requisition
(b) On a request for certification of a pending action required under Rule
91(3) of the Land Registration Rules (Northern Ireland) 1994 or section 3(2)
of the Registration of Deeds Act (Northern Ireland) 1970 98.00 107.00 The form
to be certified 12. Appeals (a) On filing a notice of appeal from a Master to
a judge in chambers 284.00 310.00 The filed copy (b) On entering any appeal
(including an interlocutory appeal) to the Court of Appeal 711.00 775.00 The
notice of appeal or requisition 13. Taxation (a) On lodgement of a bill of
costs. Provided that where the bill is taxed credit for this fee is to be
given against the final amount payable 5% of original bill 5% of original bill
The bill (b) On the taxation of a bill of costs— Where the amount allowed does
not exceed £5 1.00 1.00 The bill Where the amount allowed exceeds £5 but does
not exceed £100, for every £1 or fraction thereof— 0.20 0.20 The bill Where
the amount allowed exceeds £100— (i) for the first £100 30.00 30.00 The bill
(ii) for every £1 or fraction thereof over £100 0.20 0.20 The bill (c) On
withdrawal of a bill of costs which has been lodged for taxation In addition
to 13(a) such fee (not exceeding the amount which would have been payable
under Fee No. 13(b) if the bill had been allowed in full) as shall appear to
the Taxing Master to be fair and reasonable having regard to the amount of
work done in the office NOTE: In addition to 13(b) the Taxing Master may in
any case require the bill of costs to be stamped before taxation with the
whole or part of the amount of fees which would be payable if the bill were
allowed by him at the full amount thereof. 14. Enforcement On any application
for enforcement of a matrimonial order or civil partnership order 213.00
232.00 The filed copy

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Order)

This Order amends the Family Proceedings Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996 (
S.R. 1996 No. 495 ) to increase the majority of fees payable in respect of
specified family proceedings in the High Court and County Court over a two
year period (9% increase effective from 1st November 2023, with a further 9%
increase effective from 1st October 2024) and to include the fee for
certification of a pending action for the purpose of registering it as a
burden affecting land (Fee 11(b)).

An Explanatory Memorandum and a Regulatory Impact Assessment have been
produced and are available from the Northern Ireland Courts and Tribunals
Service, Laganside House, 23-27 Oxford Street, Belfast BT1 3LA or online
alongside this Statutory Rule at  http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr .

