Title: The Transport (Scotland) Act 2019 (Commencement No. 7) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-03-27
Description: These Regulations appoint dates for the coming into force of certain provisions of the Transport (Scotland) Act 2019 (“the 2019 Act”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2023/250

## The Transport (Scotland) Act 2019 (Commencement No. 7) Regulations 2023

    Transport

  Made   6th September 2023

  Laid before the Scottish Parliament   8th September 2023

  Coming into force   22nd September 2023

      The Scottish Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
power conferred by section 130(2) and (3) of the Transport (Scotland) Act 2019
.

### Citation and commencement


1

These Regulations may be cited as the Transport (Scotland) Act 2019
(Commencement No. 7) Regulations 2023 and come into force on 22 September
2023.

### Appointed day


2

2.1

The day appointed for the coming into force of the provisions of the Transport
(Scotland) Act 2019 specified in column 1 of the schedule (the subject matter
of which is described in column 2 of the schedule) is the day specified in
column 3 of the schedule.

2.2

Where a purpose is specified in column 4 of the schedule, a provision
mentioned in column 1 of the schedule comes into force in accordance with
paragraph (1) only for that purpose.

      FIONA HYSLOP   Authorised to sign by the Scottish Ministers     St
Andrew’s House,   Edinburgh       6th September 2023

Provisions of the Transport (Scotland) Act 2019 coming into force

Regulation 2

Column 1 Provision of the Transport (Scotland) Act 2019 Column 2 Subject
matter Column 3 Appointed day Column 4 Purpose Section 35 Bus services
improvement partnerships 4 December 2023 Section 36 Procedures for partnership
plans and schemes 4 December 2023 Section 37 Registration of local services
and functions of traffic commissioner 4 December 2023 For the purpose of
enabling the Scottish Ministers to make regulations under inserted section 6M
of the Transport Act 1985 Section 38 Franchising arrangements for local
services 4 December 2023 Section 50 Pavement parking prohibition 11 December
2023 Section 54 Double parking prohibition 11 December 2023 Section 55
Exceptions to pavement parking prohibition and double parking prohibition 11
December 2023 Section 56 Dropped footway parking prohibition 11 December 2023
Section 57 Exceptions to dropped footway parking prohibition 11 December 2023
Section 58 Imposition of penalty charges 22 September 2023 For the purpose of
enabling the Scottish Ministers to make regulations under section 58(4)(b) and
(5) Section 58 Imposition of penalty charges 11 December 2023 For all other
purposes Section 59 Enforcement of parking prohibitions 22 September 2023
Section 60 Power to install approved devices 11 December 2023 Section 61
Removal of motor vehicles parked contrary to parking prohibitions 11 December
2023 Section 62 Moving motor vehicles parked contrary to parking prohibitions
11 December 2023 Section 63 Disposal of removed motor vehicles 11 December
2023 Section 64 Arrangements in connection with enforcement 11 December 2023
Section 65 Power to share information 11 December 2023 Section 66 Accounts 22
September 2023 Section 69 Interpretation of Part 6   11 December 2023
Section 110 Inspection functions 1 April 2024 Section 111 Compliance notices 1
April 2024 Section 119 Information about apparatus 1 April 2024 Section 120
Health boards: duty to have regard to community benefit in non-emergency
patient transport contracts 1 October 2023 Section 121 Health boards: duty to
work with community transport bodies 1 October 2023 Section 125 Individual
culpability where offending by an organisation 22 September 2023 Section 126
Crown application 22 September 2023 Schedule, paragraphs 1, 2(2), 3(3), (4),
(5), (7), (8) and (9) and 4(2)(b) and (c) Minor and consequential amendments
and repeals 4 December 2023 Schedule, paragraph 3(6) Minor and consequential
amendments and repeals 4 December 2023 For all remaining purposes Schedule,
paragraphs 6(4), (5), (9) and (10) and 7(4) Minor and consequential amendments
and repeals 1 April 2024 Schedule, paragraph 7(2) Minor and consequential
amendments and repeals 22 September 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations appoint dates for the coming into force of certain
provisions of the Transport (Scotland) Act 2019 (“ the 2019 Act ”).

  Regulation 2 and the schedule bring into force the following provisions of
the 2019 Act on 22 September 2023: section 58 but only for the purpose of
making regulations under section 58(4)(b) and (5), section 59, section 66,
section 125, section 126 and paragraph 7(2) of the schedule. Sections 120 and
121 of the 2019 Act are brought into force on 1 October 2023. These
Regulations bring sections 35 and 36, 37 (but only for the purpose of making
regulations under inserted section 6M of the Transport Act 1985), 38 and
paragraphs 1, 2(2), 3(3), (4), (5), (6) (in so far as not already in force),
(7), (8) and (9), 4(2)(b) and (c) of the schedule of the 2019 Act into force
on 4 December 2023. Regulation 2 and the schedule also bring sections 50, 54
to 66 and 69 of the 2019 Act into force on 11 December 2023 for all remaining
purposes. Section 110, section 111, section 119 and paragraphs 6(4), (5), (9)
and (10), and paragraph 7(4) of the schedule of the 2019 Act are brought into
force on 1 April 2024.

  Sections 35 and 36 introduce a number of new provisions on Bus Services
Improvement Partnerships (“BSIPs”) into the Transport (Scotland) Act 2001 (“
the 2001 Act ”) (inserted sections 3A to 3M and a new schedule A1). Section 37
is brought into force to provide the Scottish Ministers with the power to make
regulations under inserted section 6M of the Transport Act 1985. Section 38
introduces a number of new provisions into the 2001 Act (section 13A to
section 13T) to enable a local transport authority to create and operate local
bus services under a franchising framework.

  Section 50, sections 54 to 66 and section 69 set out the parking
prohibitions and exceptions, and enforcement of parking prohibitions provided
for in Part 6 of the 2019 Act.

  Section 110 inserts new provisions into the Transport (Scotland) 2005 Act
which enable the Scottish Road Works Commissioner (“ SRWC ”) to carry out a
number of inspection functions in relation to compliance with road works
obligations and makes further provision with respect to the exercise of any
such function. Section 111 enables the SRWC to issue compliance notices and
makes provision about the content and form of such notices, appeals against
them and the processes for withdrawal and variation of notices. Section 119
replaces section 138 of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 with a new
section 138A. Section 138A requires undertakers and other people who are
carrying out works in a road to enter in the Scottish Road Works Register
details of the apparatus.

  Sections 120 and 121 set out duties of Health Boards in respect of the
provision of non-emergency patient transport.

  Section 125 makes provision in relation to corporate offending. Section 126
deals with the Crown application.

  Provisions of the schedule of the 2019 Act make minor and consequential
amendments and repeals which relate to the changes made in Part 3 (bus
services) and Part 9 (road works) of the 2019 Act.

  The Bill for the Act received Royal Assent on 15 November 2019. Sections 128
to 131 came into force on the following day.

## NOTE AS TO EARLIER COMMENCEMENT REGULATIONS

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  The following provisions of the Transport (Scotland) Act 2019 have been
brought into force by commencement regulations made before the date of these
Regulations.         Provision Date of Commencement S.I. No.   Part 1 15
January 2020 S.S.I. 2019/428 Section 25 15 January 2020 S.S.I. 2019/428 Part 2
(except section 25) 14 January 2021 S.S.I. 2020/429 Section 34 24 June 2022
S.S.I. 2022/204 Section 39 28 November 2022 S.S.I. 2022/332 Section 43 10
January 2022 S.S.I. 2021/428 Section 49 14 January 2021 S.S.I. 2020/429
Section 51 10 January 2022 S.S.I. 2021/428 Section 52 14 January 2021 S.S.I.
2020/429 Section 53 10 January 2022 S.S.I. 2021/428 Section 67 14 January 2021
S.S.I. 2020/429 Section 68 14 January 2021 S.S.I. 2020/429 Part 7 10 January
2022 S.S.I. 2021/428 Section 109 14 January 2021 S.S.I. 2020/429 Section 113
10 January 2022 S.S.I. 2021/428 Section 114 10 January 2022 S.S.I. 2021/428
Section 115 10 January 2022 S.S.I. 2021/428 Section 116 25 January 2023 S.S.I.
2022/332 Section 117 25 January 2023 S.S.I. 2022/332 Section 118 (for the
purpose of enabling the Scottish Ministers to make regulations under section
130C(2) of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991) 25 January 2023 S.S.I.
2022/332 Section 118 (for all other purposes) 1 April 2023 S.S.I. 2022/332
Section 122(1)(a), (2) and (3) 19 March 2020 S.S.I. 2020/68 Section 122(1)(b)
1 April 2020 S.S.I. 2020/68 Section 123 10 January 2022 S.S.I. 2021/428
Section 127 10 January 2022 S.S.I. 2021/428 Schedule, paragraph 2(1) and (3)
28 November 2022 S.S.I. 2022/332 Schedule, paragraphs 3(1) and (6)(a)(v)(A)
and 4(1) and (2)(a) 24 June 2022 S.S.I. 2022/204 Schedule, paragraphs 5, 6(1),
(2), (6), (7) and (8) and 7(1) and (3) 10 January 2022 S.S.I. 2021/428
Schedule, paragraph 6(3) 25 January 2023 S.S.I. 2022/332

