Title: The Social Security (Infected Blood Capital Disregard) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-09-01
Description: Regulation 2 of these Regulations amends—the Income Support (General) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1987,the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1996,the State Pension Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2003,the Housing Benefit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006,the Housing Benefit (Persons who have attained the qualifying age for state pension credit) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006, andthe Employment and Support Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/118

## The Social Security (Infected Blood Capital Disregard) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Social Security

  Made   9th August 2023

  Coming into operation   30th August 2023

      The Department for Communities , makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 122(1)(a) and (d), 132(3) and
(4)(b), 132A(3) and 171(1) and (3) of the Social Security Contributions and
Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 , Articles 14(1) and (4)(b) and 36(2) of
the Jobseekers (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 , and now vested in it , sections
15(3) and (6)(b) and 19(1), (2)(a) and (3) of the State Pension Credit Act
(Northern Ireland) 2002 , sections 17(1) and (3)(b) and 25(2)(a) of the
Welfare Reform Act (Northern Ireland) 2007  and Article 48(1) and (2)(a) of,
and paragraph 4(1)(a) and (3)(a) of Schedule 1 to, the Welfare Reform
(Northern Ireland) Order 2015 .       The powers are exercisable by the
Department for Communities by virtue of Article 2 to the Welfare Reform
(Northern Ireland) Order 2015 (Cessation of Transitory Provision) Order 2020 .
Regulation 2(1)(d) and (e) is made with the consent of the Department of
Finance .

### Citation, commencement and interpretation


1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Social Security (Infected Blood Capital
Disregard) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 and come into
operation on 30th August 2023.

1.2

The Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  shall apply to these
Regulations as it applies to an Act of the Assembly.

### Disregard for payment from estate


2

2.1

After each of the following provisions insert the provision in paragraph (2)—

2.1.a

paragraph 22(5) of Schedule 10 to the Income Support (General) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 1987  (capital to be disregarded);

2.1.b

paragraph 27(5) of Schedule 7 to the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 1996  (capital to be disregarded);

2.1.c

paragraph 15(5) of Schedule 5 to the State Pension Credit Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2003  (Part 1 - capital disregarded for the purpose of
calculating income);

2.1.d

paragraph 25(5) of Schedule 7 to the Housing Benefit Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2006  (capital to be disregarded);

2.1.e

paragraph 16(5) of Schedule 7 to the Housing Benefit (Persons who have
attained the qualifying age for state pension credit) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2006  (Part 1 - capital to be disregarded generally);

2.1.f

paragraph 27(5) of Schedule 9 to the Employment and Support Allowance
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008  (capital to be disregarded).

2.2

The provision to be inserted after each of the provisions in paragraph (1) is—

2.2.5A

Any payment out of the estate of a person, which derives from a payment to
meet the recommendation of the Infected Blood Inquiry in its interim report
published on 29th July 2022  made under or by the Scottish Infected Blood
Support Scheme or an approved blood scheme to the estate of the person, where
the payment is made to the person’s son, daughter, step-son or step-daughter.

.

### Amendment of the Universal Credit Regulations


3

In regulation 76 of the Universal Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016
(special schemes for compensation etc.), for paragraph (3) substitute—

3.3

In relation to a claim for universal credit made by a person other than the
diagnosed or infected person referred to in paragraph (1)(a)(i), a payment
received from the scheme or trust or which derives from a payment received
from the scheme or trust, is to be disregarded if it would be disregarded in
relation to an award of state pension credit by virtue of paragraph 13 or 15
of Schedule 5 to the State Pension Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2003.

.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 9th
August 2023       (L.S.)   David Tarr   A senior officer of the Department for
Communities           The Department of Finance hereby consents to regulation
2(1)(d) and (e) of the foregoing regulations.       Sealed with the Official
Seal of the Department of Finance on 9th August 2023       (L.S.)   Patrick
Neeson   A senior officer of the Department of Finance

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  Regulation 2 of these Regulations amends—         the Income Support
(General) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1987,           the Jobseeker’s
Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1996,           the State Pension
Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2003,           the Housing Benefit
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006,           the Housing Benefit (Persons
who have attained the qualifying age for state pension credit) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2006, and           the Employment and Support Allowance
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008.

  A new paragraph is inserted after each of the provisions cited in regulation
2(1) of these Regulations, which will enable certain payments from an estate
to be disregarded. The disregard applies to payments derived from a payment
made from an approved blood scheme, or the Scottish Infected Blood Support
scheme, which is to meet the recommendation of the Infected Blood Inquiry in
its interim report published on 29th July 2022. That report recommended that
an interim payment should be made to all those infected from contaminated
blood or blood products and all bereaved partners registered on UK infected
blood support schemes and those who register before the inception of any
future scheme. Where an infected person or their bereaved partner registered
with such a scheme but died before the interim payment could be made, it will
be paid to their estate. A payment derived from an interim payment paid from
the estate will be disregarded if it is made to a deceased person’s son,
daughter, step-son or step-daughter.

  Regulation 3 of these Regulations substitutes a new paragraph (3) into
regulation 76 of the Universal Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016. The
substituted paragraph clarifies that, in relation to a claim to Universal
Credit from a person other than a person diagnosed with variant Creutzfeldt-
Jacob disease or infected from contaminated blood or blood products, a payment
from a scheme established or approved by the Secretary of State, or from a
trust established with funds provided by the Secretary of State to provide
compensation for having been so diagnosed or infected, or a payment which
derives from such a payment, is disregarded in any of the circumstances in
which it would be disregarded in relation to an award of State Pension Credit.

  These Regulations make in relation to Northern Ireland only provision
corresponding to provision contained in Regulations made by the Secretary of
State for Work and Pensions in relation to Great Britain and accordingly, by
virtue of section 149(3) of, and paragraph 10 of Schedule 5 to, the Social
Security Administration (Northern Ireland) Act  1992 (c. 8) , are not subject
to requirement of section 149(2) of that Act for prior reference to the Social
Security Advisory Committee.

