Title: The Agriculture (Delinked Payments and Consequential Provisions) (England) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-09-25
Description: These Regulations make provision for the introduction of delinked payments under section 12 of the Agriculture Act 2020 in place of direct payments under the Basic Payment Scheme. They extend to England and Wales but apply in relation to England only.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/1430

## The Agriculture (Delinked Payments and Consequential Provisions) (England) Regulations 2023

    Agriculture, England

  Made   19th December 2023

  Coming into force   1st January 2024

      The Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers conferred by sections
12(1), (3)(a) and (b), (4)(a) to (c), 13(1) and 50(3)(a) and (d) of the
Agriculture Act 2020 , makes the following Regulations.           In
accordance with sections 12(8), 13(5) and 50(6)(a) of that Act, a draft of
this instrument was laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each House
of Parliament.

### Introduction

#### Citation, commencement, extent and application

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Agriculture (Delinked Payments and
Consequential Provisions) (England) Regulations 2023.

1.2

These Regulations—

1.2.a

come into force on 1st January 2024; and

1.2.b

extend to England and Wales but apply in relation to England only.

#### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

      “ the Act ” means the Agriculture Act 2020;           “ the Direct
Payments Regulation ” means  Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013  of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 establishing rules for
direct payments to farmers under support schemes within the framework of the
common agricultural policy and repealing Council Regulation  (EC) No 637/2008
and Council Regulation  (EC) No 73/2009  as that Regulation applied in
relation to England immediately before the end of 2023;           “
agricultural holdings tenancy ” means a tenancy to which the Agricultural
Holdings Act 1986  applies;           “delinking period” is the period
beginning with 1st January in the year prescribed in regulation 4 and ending
on the last day of the agricultural transition period for England ;
“ eligible land in England ” means any land in England that was an “eligible
hectare” within the meaning given by Article 32(2) of the Direct Payments
Regulation;           “ farm business tenancy ” means a tenancy to which the
Agricultural Tenancies Act 1995  applies;           “ reference amount ” has
the meaning given in regulation 5(3);           “ reference period ” has the
meaning given in regulation 5(2);           “ transfer ”, in relation to
eligible land in England, means—         where the transferor is the owner of
the land, a transfer by sale or gift or by lease under a farm business tenancy
or agricultural holdings tenancy;           where the transferor is a tenant
occupying the land under a farm business tenancy, a transfer by surrender or
assignment of the tenancy;           where the transferor is a tenant
occupying the land under an agricultural holdings tenancy, a transfer by
surrender or assignment of the tenancy or by the transfer of the tenancy to a
successor in accordance with Part 4 of the Agricultural Holdings Act 1986.

### Delinked payments

#### Delinked payments

3

The Secretary of State must make a delinked payment under these Regulations
for any year falling within the delinking period to a person who, in respect
of that year, satisfies the eligibility conditions in regulation 6.

#### The delinking period

4

For the purposes of section 12(2)(b)(i) of the Act and of these Regulations,
the year specified for the beginning of the delinking period is 2024 .

#### Calculation of delinked payments

5

5.1

A delinked payment is to be calculated by the Secretary of State in accordance
with Schedule 1.

5.2

The period which applies for the purposes of calculating a delinked payment
(the “reference period”) is the period of three years which began on 1st
January 2020 and ended on 31st December 2022.

5.3

The amount which applies for the purposes of calculating a delinked payment
(the “reference amount”) is the amount described in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
that is calculated by the Secretary of State in respect of a person.

5.4

When calculating a delinked payment under Schedule 1, the Secretary of State—

5.4.a

may adjust the reference amount to reflect any alterations to payments made to
or in respect of a person under the basic payment scheme  for any year falling
within the reference period; and

5.4.b

must adjust the reference amount—

5.4.b.i

to offset any proportion of that amount that has been applied for the purposes
of calculating a lump sum payment made to any person under regulation 12 of,
and the Schedule to, the Agriculture (Lump Sum Payment) (England) Regulations
2022 ; or

5.4.b.ii

in accordance with paragraph 4 of Schedule 1.

#### Eligibility conditions

6

6.1

The eligibility conditions are that a person—

6.1.a

was eligible for and claimed direct payments under the basic payment scheme in
the  2023 cl aim year;

6.1.b

has a reference amount calculated in respect of them by the Secretary of State
under Schedule 1; and

6.1.c

where applicable, has complied with any request made by the Secretary of State
under regulation 7 for the supply of additional information or evidence.

6.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1) and of these Regulations, a person includes
a natural or legal person or, as the case may be, a group of natural or legal
persons, regardless of the legal status afforded to such group and its
members.

6.3

A person who satisfies the eligibility conditions in paragraph (1) may, at any
time, request in writing that the Secretary of State should cease to regard
that person as eligible to receive any, or any further, delinked payments
under these Regulations.

#### Information in support of eligibility

7

7.1

The Secretary of State may require a person to provide additional information
and evidence in support of that person’s eligibility to receive a delinked
payment.

7.2

The information or evidence must be provided to the Secretary of State on or
before the date specified by the Secretary of State.

#### Transfers of the reference amount

8

8.1

A request may be made to the Secretary of State for the transfer to a person
by the Secretary of State of all, or any part, of a reference amount and Parts
1 and 2 of Schedule 2 have effect for these purposes.

8.2

The Secretary of State must, as soon as practicable after the receipt of a
request made under paragraph (1)—

8.2.a

determine that request; and

8.2.b

give notice in writing to the person who made the request of the Secretary of
State’s decision in relation to that request.

8.3

For the purposes of determining a request made under paragraph (1), the
Secretary of State may require additional information or evidence in support
of that request under paragraph 9 or 16 of Schedule 2.

8.4

A person to whom all, or any part, of a reference amount is transferred
following a request made under paragraph (1) and Part 2 of Schedule 2 in
circumstances where paragraph 13 of that Schedule applies, is, for the
purposes of these Regulations, to be treated as a person who has satisfied the
eligibility condition in regulation 6(1)(a).

### Making and recovery of delinked payments

#### Making delinked payments

9

9.1

Subject to paragraph (3), a delinked payment must be paid by the Secretary of
State to a person before the expiry of the period of 13 months beginning on
1st January in the year to which the payment relates.

9.2

A delinked payment in relation to a year may be paid by the Secretary of State
to a person in two instalments, the first of which represents up to 50% of the
estimated total value of the delinked payment payable to that person for that
year and the second of which represents the balance due to that person after
the total value of the delinked payment for that year has been calculated.

9.3

The Secretary of State may pay a delinked payment, or any part of a delinked
payment, to a person after the expiry of the period specified in paragraph (1)
where the Secretary of State is satisfied that there are good reasons for
doing so.

#### Recovery of delinked payments

10

10.1

The Secretary of State may recover on demand an amount paid to a person by way
of a delinked payment to which that person was not entitled.

10.2

Where the Secretary of State decides to recover an amount under paragraph (1)
from any person, the Secretary of State must notify that person in writing of—

10.2.a

the amount to be repaid; and

10.2.b

the deadline specified in paragraph (3) by which the repayment of that amount
must be made by that person.

10.3

The deadline specified in this paragraph is before the end of the period of 60
days beginning on the date on which the notification under paragraph (2) is
given.

10.4

Where a person fails to repay the full amount referred to in paragraph (2)(a)
within the deadline specified in paragraph (3), the Secretary of State may
recover the amount outstanding as a debt, together with interest on that
amount, calculated in accordance with paragraph (5).

10.5

Where the Secretary of State exercises the power conferred under paragraph
(4), interest may be charged to the amount to be repaid for each day from the
repayment deadline specified in paragraph (3) to the date on which repayment
of that amount, together with any associated interest, is made in full.

10.6

The rate of interest applicable on any day is one percentage point above the
Bank of England base rate.

10.7

In this regulation, “ the Bank of England base rate ” has the meaning given in
regulation 28(6) of the Agriculture (Financial Assistance) Regulations 2021 .

### Appeals

#### Appeals: general

11

11.1

A person (“ the appellant ”) may appeal against any decision made in respect
of that person by the Secretary of State under these Regulations.

11.2

An appeal under paragraph (1) must be—

11.2.a

submitted to the Secretary of State in writing in such form as the Secretary
of State may specify;

11.2.b

received by the Secretary of State before the end of the period of 60 days
beginning on the date on which the notification of the decision being appealed
against is given to the appellant by the Secretary of State.

#### Grounds of appeal

12

An appeal under regulation 11(1) may be submitted on any of the following
grounds—

12.a

the decision was based on an error of fact;

12.b

the decision was wrong in law;

12.c

there has been a material procedural error.

#### The appointed person

13

13.1

The Secretary of State must appoint no more than three persons to consider
appeals.

13.2

The persons appointed under paragraph (1) must, upon considering an appeal,
report in writing to the Secretary of State with conclusions on the appeal and
a recommendation as to the manner in which the matter should be finally
determined by the Secretary of State.

#### Final determination of appeals

14

14.1

Following receipt of a report under regulation 13(2), the Secretary of State
must make a final determination.

14.2

The Secretary of State must give notice in writing to the appellant, within a
reasonable period, setting out—

14.2.a

the final determination; and

14.2.b

the reasons for that determination.

### Termination of the basic payment scheme in England

#### Termination of the basic payment scheme in England

15

The basic payment scheme ceases to exist upon the coming into force of this
regulation.

#### Revocations and savings

16

Schedule 3 has effect for the purposes of making—

16.a

in Part 1 of that Schedule, consequential revocations of the legislation
governing the basic payment scheme ; and

16.b

in Part 2 of that Schedule, a saving of the effect of that legislation for
specified purposes.

### Consequential amendments to other legislation

#### Consequential amendments

17

Schedule 4 has effect for the purposes of making consequential amendments to
legislation that are necessary by reason of the revocation in relation to
England of the legislation governing the basic payment scheme.

      Mark Spencer   Minister of State   Department for Environment, Food and
Rural Affairs     19th December 2023

## SCHEDULES

  Calculation of delinked payments

Regulation 5(1)

1

The Secretary of State must first calculate the reference amount that applies
in respect of a person for each year within the delinking period. This is the
amount described in paragraph 2 or 3 or, as the case may be, the sum of those
amounts with any adjustment made under paragraph 4.

2

The amount described in this paragraph is the average amount paid to a person
by way of direct payments under the basic payment scheme in relation to the
reference period by virtue of payment entitlements activated by that person in
England under Article 32 of the Direct Payments Regulation and before the
application of any reductions or penalties under—

2.a

Article 19a of Commission Delegated  Regulation (EU) No 640/2014 ;

2.b

Articles 24 to 28 of Commission Delegated  Regulation (EU) No 640/2014 ; or

2.c

paragraphs 2(c) and (d) and 3 to 5 of Article 6 of Commission Implementing
Regulation (EU) No 809/2014 .

3

The amount described in this paragraph is the reference amount transferred by
the Secretary of State to a person following a transfer request made under
regulation 8(1) and Schedule 2.

4

The reference amount described in paragraph 2 or 3 or, as the case may be, the
sum of those amounts, is to be adjusted as necessary by the Secretary of State
to take into account the implications for that amount of any previous
transfers of a reference amount made following a request under regulation 8(1)
and Schedule 2.

5

The Secretary of State must then calculate the amount of the delinked payment
that is payable to the person for a year within the delinking period. This is
the total value of the reference amounts calculated in respect of the person
under paragraphs 2 and 3, adjusted as necessary under paragraph 4.

Regulation 8(1)

##### Requests for the transfer of the reference amount: general

1

A request may be made to the Secretary of State under this paragraph by a
person—

1.a

for the transfer to another person of the reference amount calculated by the
Secretary of State under Schedule 1 in respect of that person; or

1.b

for the transfer of a specified part or parts of the reference amount
calculated by the Secretary of State under Schedule 1 to one or more other
persons provided that the sum of the specified parts of the reference amount
that are to be transferred does not exceed the total value of that reference
amount.

2

A request may be made to the Secretary of State under this paragraph by a
person for the transfer to that person by the Secretary of State of the
reference amount calculated by the Secretary of State under Schedule 1 in
respect of another person only in the circumstances described in paragraph 6.

3

A request under paragraph 1 or paragraph 2—

3.a

must be made to the Secretary of State in such form, and before the end of
such period, as the Secretary of State may specify ;

3.b

may not be made by a person who has submitted an application to the Secretary
of State for a lump sum payment under regulation 4 of the Agriculture (Lump
Sum Payment) (England) Regulations 2022 unless the Secretary of State has
decided, under regulation 11 of those Regulations, not to pay a lump sum
payment in connection with that application.

4

This paragraph applies where—

4.a

the reference amount calculated by the Secretary of State under Schedule 1 in
respect of a person exceeds £30,000.00; and

4.b

the transfer request is made by a person under paragraph 1(b).

5

This paragraph applies where the transfer request—

5.a

is made by a person under paragraph 1(a) or (b); and

5.b

relates to all or part of a reference amount that has previously been
transferred to that person under paragraph 1(a) or (b).

6

The circumstances described in this paragraph are that the transfer request
relates to all or part of—

6.a

the reference amount that applies in relation to a business which has ceased
trading whether by reason of a change in the legal structure of the business
or otherwise; or

6.b

the total sum of the reference amounts that apply in relation to two or more
businesses which, for the purposes of the Direct Payments Regulation, were
treated by the Secretary of State as a single business in respect of the basic
payment scheme claim year 2022 or 2023.

7

Where paragraph 4 or 5 applies, the Secretary of State must only transfer the
reference amount, or any part of that amount, to any other person or persons
specified in the request (“ the transferee ”) where the Secretary of State is
satisfied that the person requesting the transfer completed the transfer of
eligible land in England to the transferee between 15th May 2020 and 16th May
2023.

8

Where paragraph 6 applies, the Secretary of State must transfer the reference
amount, or any part of that amount, to the person who made the request under
paragraph 2 (“ the transferee ”) where the Secretary of State is satisfied
that there has been a transfer of eligible land in England from the business
concerned to the transferee completed between 15th May 2020 and 16th May 2023.

9

The Secretary of State may require information or evidence from any person
making a request under paragraph 1 or 2 relating to the completion of the
transfer of eligible land in England for the purposes of paragraph 4, 5 or 6.

10

Where the Secretary of State requests information or evidence under paragraph
9, that information or evidence must be provided to the Secretary of State on
or before the date specified by the Secretary of State in the request.

##### Requests for the transfer of the reference amount: inheritance cases

11

A request may be made to the Secretary of State by a person for the transfer
to that person by the Secretary of State of the reference amount calculated in
respect of a deceased person in circumstances where paragraph 12 or 13
applies.

12

This paragraph applies where the person making the request under paragraph 11
has, after 15th May 2020, inherited eligible land in England from the deceased
person in circumstances to which paragraph 13 does not apply.

13

This paragraph applies where the person making the request under paragraph 11—

13.a

has inherited eligible land in England after 15th May 2023; or

13.b

has inherited eligible land in England before 15th May 2023 but that land was
leased out under a farm business tenancy or an agricultural holdings tenancy
which still subsisted on 15th May 2023.

14

A request under paragraph 11—

14.a

may be made to the Secretary of State in such form as the Secretary of State
may specify ; and

14.b

must be made before the end of the agricultural transition period in England.

15

A request under paragraph 11 may—

15.a

be made by one or more persons who have each inherited eligible land in
England from the deceased person; and

15.b

relate to a specified part or parts of the reference amount calculated under
Schedule 1 in respect of the deceased person provided that the sum of the
specified parts of the reference amount that are to be transferred does not
exceed the total value of that deceased person’s reference amount.

16

The Secretary of State may request information or evidence relating to the
inheritance of eligible land in England by a person for the purposes of a
request made by that person under paragraph 11.

17

Where the Secretary of State has requested additional information or evidence
under paragraph 16, that information or evidence must be provided to the
Secretary of State on or before the date specified by the Secretary of State
in the request.

  Revocations and Saving

Regulation 16

##### Revocation of retained direct EU legislation governing the basic payment scheme in England

1

Subject to the saving specified in Part 2, the instruments listed in column 1
of Table 1 and column 1 of Table 2 (which collectively established the rules
for direct payments to farmers under support schemes within the framework of
the common agricultural policy) are revoked, in relation to England only, to
the extent specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 of each of those
tables.

  Table 1   Revocation of specified retained direct EU legislation governing
the basic payment scheme in England       Legislation to be revoked Extent of
revocation   1. Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013  of the European Parliament and
of the Council of 17 December 2013 establishing rules for direct payments to
farmers under support schemes within the framework of the common agricultural
policy and repealing Council Regulation  (EC) No 637/2008  and Council
Regulation  (EC) No 73/2009 . The whole Regulation in so far as it applies in
relation to England. 2. Commission Delegated  Regulation (EU) No 639/2014  of
11 March 2014 supplementing  Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013  of the European
Parliament and of the Council establishing rules for direct payments to
farmers under support schemes within the framework of the common agricultural
policy and amending Annex 10 to that Regulation . The whole Regulation in so
far as it applies in relation to England. 3. Commission Implementing
Regulation (EU) 641/2014  of 16 June 2014 laying down rules for the
application of  Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013  of the European Parliament and
of the Council establishing rules for direct payments to farmers under support
schemes within the framework of the common agricultural policy . The whole
Regulation in so far as it applies in relation to England.

  Table 2   Revocation of specified domestic secondary legislation governing
the basic payment scheme in England       Legislation to be revoked Extent of
revocation   1. The Common Agricultural Policy Basic Payment and Support
Schemes (England) Regulations 2014 . The whole of the Regulations. 2. The
Common Agricultural Policy (Amendment) Regulations 2015 . The whole of the
Regulations in so far as they apply in relation to England. 3. The Common
Agricultural Policy (Amendment) (No. 2) Regulations 2015 . Part 2 of the
Regulations. 4. The Common Agricultural Policy Basic Payment and Support
Schemes (England) (Amendment) Regulations 2017 . The whole of the Regulations.
5. The Common Agricultural Policy Basic Payment and Support Schemes (England)
(Amendment) Regulations 2018 . The whole of the Regulations. 6. The Financing,
Management and Monitoring of Direct Payments to Farmers (Amendment)
Regulations 2020 . The whole of the Regulations in so far as they apply in
relation to England. 7. The Rules for Direct Payments to Farmers (Amendment)
Regulations 2020 . The whole of the Regulations in so far as they apply in
relation to England. 8. The Direct Payments to Farmers (Crop Diversification
Derogation) (England) Regulations 2020 . The whole of the Regulations. 9. The
Common Agricultural Policy (Control and Enforcement, Cross-Compliance,
Scrutiny of Transactions and Appeals) (Coronavirus) (Amendment) (England)
Regulations 2020 . The whole of the Regulations. 10. The Direct Payments to
Farmers (Application Deadlines) (Coronavirus) (Amendment) (England)
Regulations 2020 . The whole of the Regulations. 11. The Direct Payments
Penalty Simplification (England) Regulations 2020 . The whole of the
Regulations. 12. The Direct Payments to Farmers (Inspections) (Coronavirus)
(England) Regulations 2020 . The whole of the Regulations. 13. The Direct
Payments to Farmers (Amendment) Regulations 2020 . The whole of the
Regulations in so far as they apply in relation to England. 14. The Direct
Payments Ceilings Regulations 2020 . The whole of the Regulations. 15. The
Direct Payments to Farmers and Cross-Compliance (Simplifications) (England)
(Amendment) Regulations 2020 . The whole of the Regulations. 16. The Direct
Payments to Farmers (England) (Amendment) Regulations 2020 . The whole of the
Regulations. 17. The Direct Payments to Farmers (Reductions and
Simplifications) (England) (Amendment) Regulations 2021 . The whole of the
Regulations. 18. The Direct Payments to Farmers (Inspections) (England)
Regulations 2021 . The whole of the Regulations. 19. The Direct Payments to
Farmers (Allocation of Payment Entitlements from the National Reserve)
(England) Regulations 2022 . The whole of the Regulations. 20. The Direct
Payments to Farmers (Reductions) (England) Regulations 2022 . The whole of the
Regulations. 21. The Direct Payments to Farmers (Advanced Payments and
Activation of Payment Entitlements) (Amendment) (England) Regulations 2022 .
The whole of the Regulations. 22. The Direct Payments to Farmers (Reductions)
(England) Regulations 2023 . The whole of the Regulations. 23. The Direct
Payments to Farmers (Eligible Hectares and Afforested Areas) (Amendment)
(England) Regulations 2023 . The whole of the Regulations.

##### Saving

2

The provisions revoked by Part 1, notwithstanding that revocation, continue to
have effect, in relation to England only, in so far as is necessary for the
purposes of finally determining any outstanding rights to, and liabilities
arising in respect of applications for, direct payments under the basic
payment scheme in England made in respect of a claim year ending on or before
31st December 2023.

Consequential Amendments

Regulation 17

##### Amendment of 

1

1.1

Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
17 December 2013 on support for rural development by the European Agricultural
Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and repealing Council Regulation  (EC) No
1698/2005  is amended as follows.

1.2

In Article 2 (definitions), in paragraph 1, in point (f) (definition of
“agricultural area”), for “Article 4 of  Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 ”
substitute  “Article 2(1) of  Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 ” .

1.3

In Article 8 (content of rural development programmes), in paragraph 1(h)(i),
for the words “the appropriations provided” to the end substitute  “the
appropriations provided to the less developed regions” .

1.4

In Article 15 (advisory services, farm management and farm relief services),
for paragraph 4(b) substitute—

1.4.b

where applicable, the maintenance of the agricultural area as referred to in
point (c) of Article 2(1) of  Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 ;

.

1.5

In Article 16 (quality schemes for agricultural products, and foodstuffs), in
paragraph 3, omit the final subparagraph.

1.6

In Article 18 (restoring agricultural production potential damaged by natural
disasters and catastrophic events and introduction of appropriate prevention
actions), in paragraph 4, omit “or direct payment support”.

1.7

In Article 19 (farm and business development)—

1.7.a

in paragraph 1, omit point (c);

1.7.b

in paragraph 2, omit the final subparagraph;

1.7.c

in paragraph 4, omit the third subparagraph;

1.7.d

omit paragraph 7.

1.8

In Article 20 (basic services and village renewal in rural areas), in
paragraph 2, for “support under other” to “direct payment support” substitute
“support under Regulation 508/2014” .

1.9

In Article 28 (agri-environment-climate)—

1.9.a

in paragraph 3, for “point (c)(ii) and (c)(iii) of Article 4(1) of  Regulation
(EU) No 1307/2013 ” substitute  “points (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of Article 2(1)
of  Regulation (EU) 1306/2013 ” ;

1.9.b

in paragraph 6, omit the second subparagraph;

1.9.c

omit paragraph 11.

1.10

In Article 29 (organic farming)—

1.10.a

in paragraph 1, omit from “and who are active farmers” to the end;

1.10.b

in paragraph 2, for “points (c)(ii) and (c)(iii) of Article 4(1) of
Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 ” substitute  “points (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
Article 2(1) of  Regulation (EU) 1306/2013 ” :

1.10.c

in paragraph 4, omit the second subparagraph;

1.10.d

omit paragraph 6.

1.11

In Article 30 (Natura 2000 and Water Framework Directive payments)—

1.11.a

in paragraph 1, omit the second subparagraph;

1.11.b

in paragraph 3, for “points (c)(ii) and (c)(iii) of Article 4(1) of
Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 ” substitute  “points (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
Article 2(1) of  Regulation (EU) 1306/2013 ” ;

1.11.c

in paragraph 4, in point (b), for “points (c)(ii) and (c)(iii) of Article 4(1)
of  Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 ” substitute  “points (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
Article 2(1) of  Regulation (EU) 1306/2013 ” .

1.12

In Article 31 (payments to areas facing natural or other specific
constraints)—

1.12.a

in paragraph 1, in the second subparagraph, omit from “, taking into account
payments” to the end;

1.12.b

in paragraph 2, omit from “and are active farmers” to the end.

1.13

In Article 33 (animal welfare), in paragraph 1, omit from “and who are active
farmers” to the end.

1.14

In Article 35 (co-operation)—

1.14.a

in paragraph 6, for “, CMO support or direct payment support” substitute  “or
CMO support” ;

1.14.b

in paragraph 9, omit “or direct payment support”.

1.15

In Article 36 (risk management), omit paragraph 2.

1.16

In Article 39b (exceptional temporary support to farmers and SMEs particularly
affected by the COVID-19 crisis), in paragraph 6, omit “or direct payment
support”.

1.17

In Article 48 (revision clause), in the first subparagraph, omit the final
sentence.

1.18

In Article 58 (resources and their distribution)—

1.18.a

omit paragraphs 5 and 6;

1.18.b

in paragraph 7, omit “including the transfers referred to in paragraphs 5 and
6 of this Article,”.

1.19

In Article 59 (fund contribution)—

1.19.a

in paragraph 4, omit point (e);

1.19.b

in paragraph 8, omit “or direct payment support”.

##### Amendment of 

2

2.1

Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
17 December 2013 on the financing, management and monitoring of the common
agricultural policy and repealing Council Regulations  (EEC) No 352/78 ,  (EC)
No 165/94 ,  (EC) No 2799/98 ,  (EC) No 814/2000 ,  (EC) No 1290/2005  and
(EC) No 485/2008  is amended as follows.

2.2

At the end of Article 1 (scope) insert—

This Regulation does not apply to direct payments in England in respect of any
year falling after the end of 2023.

.

2.3

In Article 2 (terms used in this Regulation)—

2.3.a

in paragraph 1—

2.3.a.i

for point (a), substitute—

2.3.a.i.a

“ farmer ” means a natural or legal person, or a group of natural or legal
persons, regardless of the legal status granted to such group and its members
by law, whose holding is situated within England, and who exercises an
agricultural activity;

;

2.3.a.ii

for point (b) substitute—

2.3.a.ii.b

“ agricultural activity ” means—

2.3.a.ii.b.i

production, rearing or growing of agricultural products, including harvesting,
milking, breeding animals, and keeping animals for farming purposes,

2.3.a.ii.b.ii

maintaining an agricultural area in a state which makes it suitable for
grazing or cultivation without preparatory action going beyond usual
agricultural methods and machineries, based on criteria established by the
relevant authority, or

2.3.a.ii.b.iii

carrying out a minimum activity, defined by the relevant authority, on
agricultural areas naturally kept in a state suitable for grazing or
cultivation;

;

2.3.a.iii

for point (c), substitute—

2.3.a.iii.c

“ agricultural area ” means any area taken up by arable land, permanent
grassland and permanent pasture, or permanent crops;

;

2.3.a.iv

for point (d), substitute—

2.3.a.iv.d

“ holding ” means all the units situated in England which are used for
agricultural activities and managed by a farmer;

;

2.3.a.v

for point (e), substitute—

2.3.a.v.e

“ direct payments ” means, in relation to England only, direct payments within
the meaning of Article 1 of  Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013  as that regulation
applied in relation to England immediately before the end of 2023;

;

2.3.a.vi

after point (e), insert—

2.3.a.vi.ea

“ permanent crops ” means non-rotational crops other than permanent grassland
and permanent pasture that occupy the land for five years or more and yield
repeated harvests, including nurseries and short rotation coppice;

2.3.a.vi.eb

“ permanent grassland and permanent pasture ” (together referred to as “
permanent grassland ”) means land used to grow grasses or other herbaceous
forage naturally (self-seeded) or through cultivation (sown) and that has not
been included in the crop rotation of the holding for five years or more, and,
where the relevant authority so decides, that has not been ploughed up for
five years or more; it may include other species such as shrubs and/or trees
which can be grazed and, where the relevant authority so decides, other
species such as shrubs and/or trees which produce animal feed, provided that
the grasses and other herbaceous forage remain predominant. The relevant
authority may also decide to consider as permanent grassland:

2.3.a.vi.i

land which can be grazed and which forms part of established local practices
where grasses and other herbaceous forage are traditionally not predominant in
grazing areas; and/or

2.3.a.vi.ii

land which can be grazed where grasses and other herbaceous forage are not
predominant or are absent in grazing areas;

2.3.a.vi.ii.ec

“ grasses or other herbaceous forage ” means all herbaceous plants
traditionally found in natural pastures or normally included in mixtures of
seeds for pastures or meadows in the United Kingdom, whether or not used for
grazing animals;

.

2.4

In Article 69 (computerised database), in paragraph 1, in the second
subparagraph, for “point (h) of” to “1307/2013” substitute  “point (eb) of
Article 2(1) of this Regulation” .

2.5

In Article 75 (payment to beneficiaries)—

2.5.a

in paragraph 1, omit point (a);

2.5.b

in paragraph 2 omit “(other than advances made under paragraph 1(a))”.

##### Amendment of Article 189 of 

3

In  Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013  of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 17 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets
in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulations  (EEC) No 922/72 ,
(EEC) No 234/79 ,  (EC) No 1037/2001  and  (EC) No 1234/2007 , in Article 189
(imports of hemp)—

3.a

in paragraph (1)(a), for “the conditions laid down in Article 32(6) and in
Article 35(3) of  Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 ” substitute  “the conditions
laid down in Article 32(6) of  Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013  as that Article
applied in relation to England immediately before the end of 2023” ; and

3.b

in paragraph (1)(b), for “fixed in accordance with Article 32(6) and in
Article 35(3) of  Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 ” substitute  “fixed in
accordance with Article 32(6) of  Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013  as that
Article applied in relation to England immediately before the end of 2023” .

##### Amendment of Commission Delegated Regulation 640/2014

4

4.1

Commission Delegated  Regulation (EU) No 640/2014  of 11 March 2014
supplementing  Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013  of the European Parliament and of
the Council with regard to the integrated administration and control system
and conditions for refusal or withdrawal of payments and administrative
penalties applicable to direct payments, rural development support and cross
compliance  is amended as follows.

4.2

At the end of Article 1 (scope) insert—

This Regulation does not apply to direct payments in England under  Regulation
(EU) No 1307/2013  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17
December 2013 establishing rules for direct payments to farmers under support
schemes within the framework of the common agricultural policy and repealing
Council Regulation  (EC) No 637/2008  and Council Regulation  (EC) No 73/2009
in respect of any year falling after the end of 2023.

.

4.3

In Article 2 (definitions), after paragraph 2, insert—

4.3.3

In this Regulation, references to “Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013” are to be
construed as references to that Regulation as it applied in relation to
England immediately before the end of 2023.

.

4.4

In Article 4 (force majeure and exceptional circumstances), in paragraph 1,
omit the first subparagraph.

4.5

In Article 5 (identification of agricultural parcels), in paragraph 1, in the
first subparagraph, for “Article 4(1)(e) of  Regulation (EU) 1307/2013 ”
substitute  “Article 2(1)(c) of  Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 ” .

Amendment of Commission Delegated  Regulation (EU) No 807/2014

5

In Commission Delegated  Regulation (EU) No 807/2014  of 11 March 2014
supplementing  Regulation (EU) No 1305/2015  of the European Parliament and of
the Council on support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund
for Rural Development (EAFRD) and introducing transitional provisions , omit
Article 9 (exclusion of double funding of agricultural practices beneficial
for the climate and the environment and of equivalent practices).

##### Amendment of Annex 1 of Commission Implementing 

6

6.1

In Annex 1 of Commission Implementing  Regulation (EU) No 808/2014  of 17 July
2014 laying down rules for the application of  Regulation (EU) No 1305/2015
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on support
for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development
(EAFRD) , Part 1 is amended as follows.

6.2

In paragraph 8(2)(e) (description of the measures selected)—

6.2.a

in point 9 (agri-environment-climate)—

6.2.a.i

in the first indent, for “Article 4(1)(c)(ii) and (iii) of  Regulation (EU) No
1307/2013  of the European Parliament and of the Council” substitute  “Article
2(1)(b)(ii) and (iii) of  Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 ” ;

6.2.a.ii

in the fifth indent, omit from “where relevant, that methodology” to “exclude
double funding;”;

6.2.b

in point 10 (organic farming)—

6.2.b.i

in the first indent, for “Article 4(1)(c)(ii) and (iii) of  Regulation (EU) No
1307/2013 ” substitute  “Article 2(1)(b)(ii) and (iii) of  Regulation (EU) No
1306/2013 ” ;

6.2.b.ii

in the second indent, omit from “; where relevant, that methodology” to
“double funding”;

6.2.c

in point 11 (Natura 2000 and Water Framework Directive Payments), in the
fourth indent—

6.2.c.i

omit from “the relevant criteria and minimum activities referred to” to
“Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013;”;

6.2.c.ii

in the second place it occurs, for “Article 4(1)(c)(ii) and (iii) of
Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 ” substitute  “Article 2(1)(b)(ii) and (iii) of
Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 ” ;

6.2.c.iii

in the seventh indent, omit from “; where relevant, that methodology” to the
end.

##### Amendment of Commission Implementing Regulation 809/2014

7

7.1

Commission Implementing  Regulation (EU) No 809/2014  of 17 July 2014 laying
down rules for the application of  Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013  of the
European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the integrated
administration and control system, rural development measures and cross
compliance  is amended as follows.

7.2

At the end of Article 1 (scope), insert—

This Regulation does not apply to direct payments in England under  Regulation
(EU) No 1307/2013  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17
December 2013 establishing rules for direct payments to farmers under support
schemes within the framework of the common agricultural policy and repealing
Council Regulation  (EC) No 637/2008  and Council Regulation  (EC) No 73/2009
in respect of any year falling after the end of 2023.

.

7.3

In Article 12 (single applications)—

7.3.a

in paragraph 1, omit “for direct payments”;

7.3.b

in paragraph 2, omit “area-related direct payments or”.

7.4

In Article 17 (requirements pertaining to area-related aid applications), omit
paragraph 6.

7.5

In Article 27 (cross-notification of results of checks), omit the third
paragraph.

7.6

In Article 29 (cross-checks), in paragraph 1, in point (a)—

7.6.a

omit “on declared payment entitlements and”;

7.6.b

omit “respectively,”;

7.6.c

omit from “area-related aid schemes” to “1307/2013, and”.

7.7

In Article 36 (reduction of control rate), in paragraph 4, omit the second
subparagraph.

7.8

In Article 38 (area measurement), omit paragraph 8.

##### Amendment of the Common Agricultural Policy (Control and Enforcement, Cross-Compliance, Scrutiny of Transactions and Appeals) Regulations 2014

8

8.1

The Common Agricultural Policy (Control and Enforcement, Cross-Compliance,
Scrutiny of Transactions and Appeals) Regulations 2014  are amended as
follows.

8.2

In regulation 1 (citation, commencement, application and extent)—

8.2.a

in paragraph (2), for “paragraphs (3) and (4)” substitute  “paragraphs (2A),
(3) and (4)” ;

8.2.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

8.2.b.2A

These Regulations do not apply to direct payments in England in respect of any
year falling after the end of 2023.

.

8.3

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation)—

8.3.a

in the definition of “the Direct Payments Delegated Regulation”, at the end
insert  “as that Regulation applied in relation to England immediately before
the end of 2023” ;

8.3.b

in the definition of “the Direct Payments Implementing Regulation”, at the end
insert  “as that Regulation applied in relation to England immediately before
the end of 2023” ;

8.3.c

in the definition of “the Direct Payments Regulation”, at the end insert  “as
that Regulation applied in relation to England immediately before the end of
2023” ;

8.3.d

omit the definition of “area-related aid schemes”;

8.3.e

omit the definition of “single application”.

8.4

Omit regulation 3 (competent authority).

8.5

In regulation 4(3) (agency arrangements), omit “support schemes listed in
Annex 1 to the Direct Payments Regulation or”.

8.6

In regulation 5(1) (applications), for “a single application,” substitute
“an” .

8.7

Omit regulation 6 (minimum size of agricultural area).

##### Amendment of Article 2 of Commission Delegated 

9

9.1

Commission Delegated  Regulation (EU) 2017/891  of 13 March 2017 supplementing
Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013  of the European Parliament and of the Council
with regard to the fruit and vegetables and processed fruit and vegetable
sectors and supplementing  Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013  of the European
Parliament and of the Council with regard to penalties to be applied in those
sectors and amending Commission Implementing  Regulation (EU) No 543/2011  is
amended as follows.

9.2

In Article 2, in point (a) (definition of producer), for “Article 4(1)(a) of
Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013  of the European Parliament and of the Council”
substitute  “Article 2(1)(a) of  Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 ” .

##### Amendment of regulation 2 of the Agriculture (Payments) (Amendment, etc.) (EU Exit) Regulations 2020

10

In regulation 2 of the Agriculture (Payments) (Amendment, etc.) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2020 (treatment of CAP Horizontal Legislation) —

10.a

omit paragraph (1)(a);

10.b

in paragraph (1)(b), omit “in all other cases,”.

##### Amendment of the Agriculture (Lump Sum Payment) (England) Regulations 2022

11

11.1

The Agriculture (Lump Sum Payment) (England) Regulations 2022  are amended as
follows.

11.2

In regulation 2 (interpretation), at the end of the definition of “Regulation
(EU) 1307/2013” and the definition of “Regulation (EU) 640/2014” insert  “as
that Regulation operated in relation to England immediately before the end of
2023” .

11.3

In the Schedule (calculating the lump sum payment)—

11.3.a

in paragraph 1(3)(c)(iii) (definition of SRA), at the end insert  “as that
Regulation applied in relation to England immediately before the end of 2023”
;

11.3.b

in paragraph 3—

11.3.b.i

in sub-paragraph (2)—

11.3.b.i.aa

at the end of paragraph (a) omit “and”; and

11.3.b.i.bb

at the end of paragraph (b), after “17th May 2021” insert—

; and

11.3.b.i.bb.c

the total value of any payment entitlements that were recorded in the register
in the applicant’s name before the date on which these Regulations come into
force (excluding any payment entitlements that have been leased out).

;

11.3.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (5)(b) (definition of PES)—

11.3.b.ii.aa

at the end of paragraph (i) omit “and”; and

11.3.b.ii.bb

after paragraph (ii) insert—

11.3.b.ii.bb.iii

the total value of any payment entitlements that were recorded in the register
in the applicant’s name before the date on which these Regulations come into
force (excluding any payment entitlements that have been leased out); and

.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision for the introduction of delinked payments
under section 12 of the Agriculture Act 2020 in place of direct payments under
the Basic Payment Scheme. They extend to England and Wales but apply in
relation to England only.

  Part 2 (regulation 3) provides for the making of delinked payments by the
Secretary of State during the delinking period. The delinking period is the
period beginning with 1st January in the year prescribed in regulation 4,
which is 2024, and ending on the last day of the agricultural transition
period in England, which is currently 31st December 2027. The delinking period
is the three-year period beginning with the year prescribed in regulation 4.
The Basic Payment Scheme was established under  Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 establishing
rules for direct payments to farmers under support schemes within the
framework of the common agricultural policy and repealing Council Regulation
(EC) No 637/2008  and Council Regulation  (EC) No 73/2009  (“ the Direct
Payments Regulation ”). Regulation 5 and Schedule 1 provide for the
calculation of delinked payments by the Secretary of State by reference to an
underlying “reference amount”. The eligibility conditions for receiving a
delinked payment (regulation 6) are largely based on the direct payments made
to a person under the Basic Payment Scheme during the reference period
described in regulation 5(2). Regulation 7 enables the Secretary of State to
request further information or evidence from a person in support of their
eligibility for a delinked payment. Regulation 8 and Schedule 2 provide for
the circumstances in which all, or any part, of a reference amount may, on
request, be transferred by the Secretary of State to another person (“ the
transferee ”) in order to enable a delinked payment to be calculated under
these Regulations for the transferee during the delinking period.

  Part 3 provides for the making and recovery of delinked payments by the
Secretary of State. Delinked payments for any year during the delinking period
must be paid to a person before the end of the period specified unless the
Secretary of State considers that there are good reasons for them being paid
after that date. Delinked payments may also be paid in up to two instalments
(regulation 9). Provision is also made for the recovery by the Secretary of
State of all, or any part, of a delinked payment to which a person was not
entitled (regulation 10) and the Secretary of State is able to apply interest,
at a daily rate of 1% above the applicable Bank of England base rate, to any
amounts outstanding.

  Part 4 provides a right of appeal against a decision made by the Secretary
of State under these Regulations (regulation 11) and the grounds on which any
such appeal may be made (regulation 12). The Secretary of State must appoint
no more than three persons to consider any such appeals and to report to the
Secretary of State in writing with conclusions and a recommendation about how
the appeal should be finally determined (regulation 13). Provision is also
made for notification to the appellant of the final determination of an appeal
by the Secretary of State and the giving of reasons for that determination
(regulation 14).

  Part 5 provides for the termination of the Basic Payment Scheme on the
coming into force of regulation 15 of these Regulations (regulation 15). It
also makes consequential revocations (regulation 16 and Schedule 3) in
relation to England only of the legislation governing that scheme that is
specified in column 1 of each of the tables in Part 1 of Schedule 3 to the
extent specified in column 2 of those tables. The provisions being revoked
include the associated cross-compliance rules which applied in relation to
England, by virtue of  Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013  of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financing, management
and monitoring of the common agricultural policy and repealing Council
Regulations  (EEC) No 352/78 ,  (EC) No 165/94 ,  (EC) No 2799/98 ,  (EC) No
814/2000 ,  (EC) No 1290/2005  and  (EC) No 485/2008 . Part 2 of Schedule 3
contains a general saving of the effect of the legislation governing the Basic
Payment Scheme that is being revoked for the purposes of dealing with any
outstanding rights and liabilities to, and arising in respect of, direct
payments under that scheme prior to its termination in England.

  Part 6 and Schedule 4 make consequential amendments to legislation arising
from the termination of the Basic Payment Scheme in England and the
revocation, by regulation 16 and Schedule 3, of the legislation governing that
scheme in so far as it applies in relation to England.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is foreseen.

