Title: The Tribunal Procedure (Amendment) Rules 2023
Date: 2024-03-21
Description: These Rules amend the tribunal procedure Rules applied by the First-tier Tribunal and the Upper Tribunal.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/327

## The Tribunal Procedure (Amendment) Rules 2023

    This Statutory Instrument has been made in part to correct errors in  S.I.
2022/1030  and is being issued free of charge to all known recipients of that
Statutory Instrument.

    Tribunals And Inquiries

  Made   14th March 2023

  Laid before Parliament   15th March 2023

  Coming into force   6th April 2023

      The Tribunal Procedure Committee makes the following Rules, in exercise
of the powers conferred by section 22 of, and Schedule 5 to, the Tribunals,
Courts and Enforcement Act 2007 , having consulted in accordance with
paragraph 28(1) of Schedule 5 to that Act.           The Lord Chancellor has
allowed the Rules in accordance with paragraph 28(3) of Schedule 5 to the
Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act 2007.

### Citation and commencement

1

These Rules may be cited as the Tribunal Procedure (Amendment) Rules 2023 and
come into force on 6th April 2023.

### Amendments to the Tribunal Procedure (First-tier Tribunal) (Social Entitlement Chamber) Rules 2008

2

2.1

The Tribunal Procedure (First-tier Tribunal) (Social Entitlement Chamber)
Rules 2008  are amended as follows.

2.2

In rule 22 (cases in which the notice of appeal is to be sent to the
Tribunal)—

2.2.a

in paragraph (7A) for “Her Majesty’s” substitute  “His Majesty’s” ;

2.2.b

in paragraph (9)(b) for “Her Majesty’s” substitute  “His Majesty’s” .

### Amendments to the Tribunal Procedure (First-tier Tribunal) (Tax Chamber) Rules 2009

3

3.1

The Tribunal Procedure (First-tier Tribunal) (Tax Chamber) Rules 2009  are
amended as follows.

3.2

In rule 1(3) (citation, commencement, application and interpretation) in the
definition of “HMRC” for “Her Majesty’s” substitute  “His Majesty’s” .

### Amendments to the Tribunal Procedure (First-tier Tribunal) (War Pensions and Armed Forces Compensation Chamber) Rules 2008

4

4.1

The Tribunal Procedure (First-tier Tribunal) (War Pensions and Armed Forces
Compensation Chamber) Rules 2008  are amended as follows.

4.2

In rule 6 (procedure for applying for and giving directions) after paragraph
(3) insert—

4.2.3A

A party making a written application must send a copy of the application to
every other party to the proceedings and to any other person that may be
affected by the direction applied for, and request that any comments on the
application should be sent to the Tribunal within 7 days or such earlier
period as the Tribunal directs.

.

4.3

In rule 21 (notice of appeal)—

4.3.a

in paragraph (1) for “decision maker” substitute  “Tribunal” ;

4.3.b

after paragraph (5) insert—

4.3.b.5A

The Tribunal must send a copy of the notice of appeal and any accompanying
documents to the decision maker as soon as reasonably practicable.

;

4.3.c

in paragraph (6) for “The decision maker must refer the case to the Tribunal
immediately” substitute  “Upon receipt of a copy of the notice of appeal the
decision maker must notify the Tribunal within 28 days” .

4.4

In rule 22 (lapse of cases)—

4.4.a

in paragraph (1)—

4.4.a.i

for “If the” substitute  “If after receiving the notice of appeal the” ;

4.4.a.ii

at the end of sub-paragraph (a) omit “and”;

4.4.a.iii

at the end of sub-paragraph (b) insert—

; and

4.4.a.iii.c

the decision maker must send a copy of the revised decision to the Tribunal.

;

4.4.b

in paragraph (2)  in the second place in which it appears   for “decision
maker” substitute  “Tribunal” ;

4.4.c

after paragraph (2) insert—

4.4.c.2A

The Tribunal must send a copy of the appellant’s representations or written
statement provided under paragraph (2) (if any) to the decision maker.

;

4.4.d

omit paragraph (3);

4.4.e

after paragraph (3) insert—

4.4.e.4

If an appeal lapses under paragraph (2), the Tribunal must give both parties
notice that it has done so.

.

4.5

In rule 23 (responses and replies)—

4.5.a

for paragraph (1) substitute—

4.5.a.1

When a decision maker receives a copy of the notice of appeal, the decision
maker must send or deliver a response to the Tribunal—

4.5.a.1.a

where the decision being challenged on appeal is subject to mandatory
reconsideration, within 28 days after—

4.5.a.1.a.i

if following reconsideration, the decision maker maintains the decision being
challenged, the date on which the decision maker sends the appellant notice
that the decision under challenge has been maintained; or

4.5.a.1.a.ii

if following reconsideration, the decision maker revises the decision being
challenged, the date on which the decision maker receives a copy of the
appellant’s representations or written statement provided under rule 22(2A)
(lapse of cases); or

4.5.a.1.b

in any other case, within 56 days after the date that the decision maker
receives a copy of the notice of appeal or, if rule 21(3) (notice of appeal)
applies, a copy of the Tribunal’s decision to admit the appeal.

;

4.5.b

after paragraph (7) insert—

4.5.b.8

In this rule, a decision is “subject to mandatory reconsideration” where—

4.5.b.8.a

an application for reconsideration has been made under Article 53(1) of the
Armed Forces and Reserve Forces (Compensation Scheme) Order 2011 (the 2011
Order) and the application has not yet been determined; or

4.5.b.8.b

the decision maker is required under Article 53(5) of the 2011 Order to
reconsider the decision being challenged.

.

4.6

In rule 24 (medical examinations and commission of medical evidence etc.)—

4.6.a

omit paragraphs (1) and (2);

4.6.b

in paragraph (5) omit “arranges a medical examination under paragraph (2) or”.

### Amendments to the Tribunal Procedure (Upper Tribunal) Rules 2008

5

5.1

The Tribunal Procedure (Upper Tribunal) Rules 2008  are amended as follows.

5.2

In rule 13 (sending and delivery of documents)—

5.2.a

in paragraph (1)—

5.2.a.i

at the beginning insert  “Subject to paragraph (1A),” ;

5.2.a.ii

at the end of sub-paragraph (b) omit “or”;

5.2.a.iii

after sub-paragraph (b) insert—

5.2.a.iii.ba

uploaded to the Upper Tribunal’s secure portal; or

;

5.2.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

5.2.b.1A

A practice direction may specify for any document subject to paragraph (1)—

5.2.b.1A.a

the requirements that must be fulfilled for it to be uploaded to the Upper
Tribunal’s secure portal; and

5.2.b.1A.b

for any specified category of party in any specified category of case, that it
must be so uploaded to the Upper Tribunal’s secure portal.

;

5.2.c

in paragraph (2)—

5.2.c.i

for “paragraph (3)” substitute  “paragraphs (2A) and (3)” ;

5.2.c.ii

after “them” insert  “(including transmission through the Upper Tribunal’s
secure portal)” ;

5.2.d

after paragraph (2) insert—

5.2.d.2A

A party is required to accept delivery of documents through the Upper
Tribunal’s secure portal only if the document is sent through that portal to
that party by the Upper Tribunal.

;

5.2.e

in paragraph (4) after “communication” insert  “(including transmission
through the Upper Tribunal’s secure portal)” .

### Amendments to the Tribunal Procedure (Upper Tribunal) (Lands Chamber) Rules 2010

6

6.1

The Tribunal Procedure (Upper Tribunal) (Lands Chamber) Rules 2010  are
amended as follows.

6.2

In rule 13 (sending and delivery of documents)—

6.2.a

in paragraph (1)—

6.2.a.i

at the beginning insert  “Subject to paragraph (1A),” ;

6.2.a.ii

at the end of sub-paragraph (b) omit “or”;

6.2.a.iii

after sub-paragraph (b) insert—

6.2.a.iii.ba

uploaded to the Tribunal’s secure portal; or

;

6.2.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

6.2.b.1A

A practice direction may specify for any document subject to paragraph (1)—

6.2.b.1A.a

the requirements that must be fulfilled for it to be uploaded to the
Tribunal’s secure portal; and

6.2.b.1A.b

for any specified category of party in any specified category of case, that it
must be so uploaded to the Tribunal’s secure portal.

;

6.2.c

in paragraph (2)—

6.2.c.i

for “paragraph (3)” substitute  “paragraphs (2A) and (3)” ;

6.2.c.ii

after “them” insert  “(including transmission through the Tribunal’s secure
portal)” ;

6.2.d

after paragraph (2) insert—

6.2.d.2A

A party is required to accept delivery of documents through the Tribunal’s
secure portal only if the document is sent through that portal to that party
by the Tribunal.

;

6.2.e

in paragraph (4) after “communication” insert  “(including transmission
through the Tribunal’s secure portal)” .

6.3

In rule 39B (method of making application)—

6.3.a

in paragraph (3)(b) after “application” insert  “land” ;

6.3.b

in paragraph (4) after “a landowner” insert  “or as” .

### Saving provision applicable to appeals to the First-tier Tribunal (War Pensions and Armed Forces Compensation Chamber)

7

The amendments made by rule 4 of these Rules do not apply to any appeals where
written notice of the decision being challenged was sent to the appellant
before 6th April 2023.

      We make these Rules       Susan Humble   Donald Ferguson   Joanna Smith
Gabriella Bettiga   Philip Brook Smith   Jeremy Rintoul   Michael Reed
Stephen Smith   Mark Loveday   TPC Members     2nd March 2023             I
allow these Rules       Bellamy   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State
Ministry of Justice     14th March 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Rules)

  These Rules amend the tribunal procedure Rules applied by the First-tier
Tribunal and the Upper Tribunal.

  Rule 2 amends the Tribunal Procedure (First-tier Tribunal) (Social
Entitlement Chamber) Rules 2008 ( S.I. 2008/2685 ) and rule 3 amends the
Tribunal Procedure (First-tier Tribunal) (Tax Chamber) Rules 2009 ( S.I.
2009/273 ), so that references to “Her Majesty” are replaced with “His
Majesty”.

  Rule 4 amends the Tribunal Procedure (First-tier Tribunal) (War Pensions and
Armed Forces Compensation Chamber) Rules 2008 ( S.I. 2008/2686 ) to allow
appeals to be directly lodged with the Tribunal. Rule 4 also amends the
procedure for applying for directions and removes the power for a Tribunal
member to undertake a medical examination.

  Rule 5 amends the Tribunal Procedure (Upper Tribunal) Rules 2008 ( S.I.
2008/2698 ) and rule 6(2) amends the Tribunal Procedure (Upper Tribunal)
(Lands Chamber) Rules 2010 ( S.I. 2010/2600 ) (“Lands Chamber Rules”) which
provides that practice directions may make provision for the mandatory filing
of documents to the Upper Tribunal’s secure online portal for specified users
in any specified categories of case.

  Rule 6(3) amends rule 39B (method of making application) of the Lands
Chamber Rules to correct a drafting error.

  No impact assessment has been carried out for these amendments as no, or no
significant impact, on the private, voluntary, or public sectors is foreseen.

