Title: The Building Safety (Responsible Actors Scheme and Prohibitions) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-05-30
Description: These regulations establish the Responsible Actors Scheme (“the scheme”) and the prohibitions under the Act. They identify certain developers who are eligible to become members of the scheme, and, as a condition of membership, require such developers to enter into and comply with a contract with the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities under which they are to, among other things, remediate relevant residential buildings for which they are responsible at their own expense and reimburse to the government amounts paid out by government remediation funds to remediate buildings for which they are responsible.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/753

## The Building Safety (Responsible Actors Scheme and Prohibitions) Regulations 2023

    Building And Buildings, England

  Made   3rd July 2023

  Coming into force   4th July 2023

      The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 126, 127, 128, 129 and 168 of the Building
Safety Act 2022 .           In accordance with section 168(6) of that Act, a
draft of this instrument has been laid before Parliament and approved by a
resolution of each House of Parliament.

### Introduction

#### Citation, commencement, extent and application

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Building Safety (Responsible Actors
Scheme and Prohibitions) Regulations 2023 and come into force on the day after
they are made.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales and apply in England only.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

      “ the Act ” means the Building Safety Act 2022;           “ adjusted
operating profits ” has the meaning given in regulation  11(4) ;           “
financial year ” means the financial year as determined in accordance with
section 390 of the Companies Act 2006 ;           “ prohibitions list ” means
the list published under regulation 20(1) (b) ;           “ relevant building
” has the meaning given in regulation  3 ;           “ the scheme ” means the
Responsible Actors Scheme established by regulation 5;           “ Self
Remediation Contract ” has the meaning given in regulation 21(1);           “
Self Remediation Terms ” has the meaning given in regulation  21(1) ;
“ specified period ” means the financial years ending in 2017, 2018 and 2019;
“ wound up ” has the meaning given in the Self Remediation Terms.

2.2

In these Regulations—

2.2.a

“ group ” in relation to a person (“ A ”) means A and any body corporate which
is associated with A (within the meaning given in section 131 of the Act) and
for the purposes of regulations  7(1)(b) ,  8(1)(a)  and  9(1)(a)  includes
any body corporate which has been wound up, but which before it was wound up
was associated with A;

2.2.b

a body corporate is to be treated as controlled by another body corporate in
the circumstances set out in sections 131(2) to 131(6) of the Act;

2.2.c

a person acting as an insolvency practitioner within the meaning of section
388 of the Insolvency Act 1986  or as receiver in relation to A or any assets
of A, or any body corporate in the same group as A or its assets, is not to be
treated as being in the same group as A;

2.2.d

a body corporate in which an insolvency practitioner in their capacity as an
insolvency practitioner is a partner, a director or a shareholder, or with
which such insolvency practitioner has any employment, consultancy or similar
arrangement in that capacity is not to be treated as a member of the same
group as A;

2.2.e

a bank, financial institution, trust, fund or other entity—

2.2.e.i

which is regularly engaged in or established for the purpose of making,
purchasing or investing in loans, securities or other financial assets; and

2.2.e.ii

which has made debt financing available to A or any other body corporate in
the same group as A in the ordinary course of its business and on arm’s length
terms,

is not to be treated as a member of the same group as A solely by reason of
the provision and terms of such debt financing and any associated security or
collateral arrangements.

2.3

For the purposes of regulations  7  to  9 , a person is to be treated as being
responsible for the development or refurbishment of a building if that person
would be treated as playing a role as a developer or refurbisher in relation
to that building in accordance with the definition of “Building” in the Self
Remediation Terms and as if “PD Group Company” in that definition was
substituted with  “person” .

#### Relevant buildings

3

3.1

In these Regulations, a relevant building means a building which—

3.1.a

is a residential building,

3.1.b

is at least 11 metres high and located in England, and

3.1.c

has been developed or refurbished during the period starting on 5th April 1992
and ending on 4th April 2022 (“ the relevant period ”).

3.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1), a “residential building” is a self-
contained building or self-contained part of a building, which—

3.2.a

contains, at the date these Regulations come into force, at least one dwelling
held under the terms of a lease with a term exceeding 21 years or as
commonhold land, or

3.2.b

is owned by a registered provider of social housing.

3.3

A building does not cease to be a residential building because it also
contains premises which are not dwellings.

3.4

In this regulation—

3.4.a

section 117 of the Act applies for the purposes of determining whether a
building or part of a building is self-contained;

3.4.b

the height of a building will be determined in accordance with the definition
of “Building” in the Self Remediation Terms.

#### Notices

4

4.1

Any notice or notification required to be given or issued under these
Regulations must be in writing.

4.2

Any such notice or notification may be given or issued in satisfaction of any
requirement under these Regulations by—

4.2.a

delivering or sending it to, or leaving it at—

4.2.a.i

the addressee’s registered office, the addressee’s principal place of
activity, or the addressee’s home address (as applicable); or

4.2.a.ii

another address supplied by the addressee for the purposes of these
Regulations or under the Self Remediation Contract, or

4.2.b

electronic means, by sending it to an email address provided by the addressee
for the purposes of these Regulations or under the Self Remediation Contract.

4.3

Where no address is supplied or is otherwise available under paragraph (2), or
if an address under paragraph (2) is outside the United Kingdom, any
requirement to give or issue a notice or notification under these Regulations
is to be treated as satisfied where reasonable steps are taken to deliver or
send the notice.

### The Responsible Actors Scheme

#### Establishment and eligibility for membership

##### Establishment of scheme

5

A scheme to be known as the Responsible Actors Scheme (“ the scheme ”), which
is a scheme to secure the safety of people in or about buildings and improve
the standard of buildings by securing that persons in the building industry
remedy defects in buildings relating to fire safety and contribute to costs
associated with remedying such defects in relation to buildings, is
established in accordance with these Regulations.

##### Eligibility: general

6

A person (in this regulation and regulations 7 to 11, “P”) is eligible to be a
member of the scheme if P—

6.a

satisfies the criteria set out in regulation  7 ,  8  or  9 ; and

6.b

is not a registered provider of social housing, or a wholly-owned subsidiary
of a registered provider of social housing (and “ wholly-owned subsidiary ”
has the meaning given in section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006 ).

##### Eligibility: residential property developers

7

7.1

The criteria in this regulation are satisfied if—

7.1.a

P’s principal business is residential property development, within the meaning
in regulation 10;

7.1.b

P has been responsible for the development or refurbishment of one or more
relevant buildings in the relevant period; and

7.1.c

P satisfies the condition in regulation  11 .

7.2

For the purposes of determining whether the condition in paragraph (1)(b) is
met, P is to be treated as being responsible for the development or
refurbishment of a building, if that building is a relevant building which a
body corporate in the same group as P (“ GP ”) was responsible for developing
or refurbishing in the relevant period, whether or not the building was
developed or refurbished before GP was in the same group as P.

##### Eligibility: buildings eligible for remediation funds

8

8.1

The criteria in this regulation are satisfied if—

8.1.a

P has been responsible for the development or refurbishment of two or more
buildings which have before the date these Regulations come into force been
assessed as being eligible for funding under one of the following funds
established by the Secretary of State—

8.1.a.i

the Private Sector ACM Cladding Remediation Fund;

8.1.a.ii

the Social Sector ACM Cladding Remediation Fund; or

8.1.a.iii

the Building Safety Fund; and

8.1.b

P satisfies the condition in regulation  11 .

8.2

For the purposes of determining whether the condition in paragraph (1)(a) is
met, P is to be treated as being responsible for the development or
refurbishment of a building if a body corporate in the same group as P (“ GP
”) was responsible for developing or refurbishing the building, whether or not
the building was developed or refurbished before GP was in the same group as
P.

8.3

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(a), a building has been assessed as eligible
if—

8.3.a

a decision has been taken by the Secretary of State—

8.3.a.i

in relation to the Private Sector ACM Cladding Remediation Fund, approving the
grant of funding in relation to the building, with or without conditions,

8.3.a.ii

in relation to the Social Sector ACM Cladding Remediation Fund, approving the
application for funding, with or without conditions, or

8.3.a.iii

in relation to the Building Safety Fund, determining that the building is
eligible for funding from the Fund, and

8.3.b

notice in writing of the decision has been given to the person who made the
application to the fund in question.

##### Voluntary eligibility

9

9.1

The criteria in this regulation are satisfied if—

9.1.a

P has been responsible for the development or refurbishment of one or more
relevant buildings in the relevant period;

9.1.b

at least one of the buildings referred to in sub-paragraph (a) would require
remediation under the Self Remediation Terms, if P were subject to the Self
Remediation Terms; and

9.1.c

P wishes to become a member of the scheme.

9.2

For the purposes of determining whether the condition in paragraph (1)(a) is
met, P is to be treated as being responsible for the development or
refurbishment of a building, if that building is a relevant building which a
body corporate in the same group as P (“ GP ”) was responsible for developing
or refurbishing in the relevant period, whether or not the building was
developed or refurbished before GP was in the same group as P.

##### Residential property development

10

10.1

For the purposes of regulation  7(1)(a) , P’s principal business is
residential property development if—

10.1.a

50% or more of P’s total adjusted operating profits for the specified period
were derived from the development of residential property in the United
Kingdom; or

10.1.b

it is reasonable for Secretary of State to conclude from—

10.1.b.i

annual reports published by P, or

10.1.b.ii

where P does not publish an annual report, any other publication published by
P or by a body corporate in the same group as P,

which relate to the specified period, that P’s principal business activity
during the specified period was the development of residential property.

10.2

For the purposes of this regulation—

10.2.a

“ residential property ” has the same meaning as in section 37 of the Finance
Act 2022 ;

10.2.b

the “development of residential property”—

10.2.b.i

means commissioning or undertaking the construction or refurbishment of
residential property, with a view to granting or disposing of interests in
that property, and

10.2.b.ii

includes residential property development activities (within the meaning of
section 35 of the Finance Act 2022) which are ancillary to the activities in
paragraph (i);

10.2.c

P’s adjusted operating profits means the adjusted operating profits for the
specified period derived from P’s accounts or consolidated accounts, as
applicable, in accordance with regulation 11.

##### Profit condition

11

11.1

The condition in this regulation is satisfied if—

11.1.a

where P does not file consolidated accounts, the average adjusted operating
profits for the specified period, as derived from P’s accounts are greater or
equal to £10 million; or

11.1.b

where P files consolidated accounts, the average adjusted operating profits
for the specified period, as derived from the consolidated accounts for P are
greater or equal to £10 million.

11.2

The average adjusted operating profits referred to in paragraph (1) are to be
calculated as the sum of the adjusted operating profits derived from P’s
accounts (or where paragraph (1)(b) applies, the adjusted operating profits
derived from P’s consolidated accounts) in each of the three financial years
in the specified period divided by three.

11.3

If P satisfies the criteria at regulation 7 or 8 including the condition in
paragraph 11(1), P does not cease to be eligible to be a member of the scheme
because P’s adjusted operating profits fall below £10 million in any financial
year after the specified period has ended.

11.4

In this regulation—

      “ accounts ” means—         financial statements delivered to the
registrar of companies in accordance with section 441 of the Companies Act
2006 ; or           where P is not subject to section 441 of the Companies Act
2006, such other available financial information about P which enables P’s
adjusted operating profits to be determined;                 “ adjusted
operating profits ” means operating profits adjusted, if necessary, so as to—
include the share of any profit or loss from joint ventures or associates,
where consolidated accounts are prepared;           include any investment
income recognised from subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates, where
unconsolidated accounts are prepared;           exclude items that are non-
recurring in nature, such exclusions to include—         items described in
the accounts as “exceptional”, which are material individually or in
aggregate, and are non-recurring in nature;           gains or losses on the
disposal of businesses and investments;           non-recurring costs of
restructuring or the reorganisation of existing businesses;           costs of
integrating newly acquired businesses;           acquisition or disposal costs
incurred on the acquisition or disposal of control of a business; and
costs associated with remediating or mitigating defects in buildings relating
to fire safety, including any provision made for such costs;
exclude unrealised valuation adjustments, other than normal depreciation
charges, such exclusions to include—         fair value adjustments;
revaluation gains or losses;           impairment losses.
“ associate ” has the same meaning as in IAS 28;           “ IAS 28 ” means
International Accounting Standard 28 Investments in Associates and Joint
Ventures, as published in October 2017 by the International Accounting
Standards Board;           “ joint venture ” has the same meaning as in IAS
28;           “ operating profits ” means the profits derived from operating
activities, so far as their disclosure in the accounts (whether consolidated
or unconsolidated) complies with paragraph 5.9B of Financial Reporting
Standard 102 as published by the Financial Reporting Council in March 2013 and
revised in March 2018.

11.5

For the purposes of paragraph (4), where operating profits are not disclosed
in the accounts (whether consolidated or unconsolidated) then operating profit
should be determined from profit before tax adjusted to exclude interest,
investment income and finance costs.

##### Eligibility: avoidance

12

12.1

In any assessment of a person’s eligibility to be a member of the scheme under
these Regulations, the Secretary of State must disregard any steps taken by
the person or by a member of their group after the date on which these
Regulations were laid before Parliament where such steps were taken for the
main purpose, or one of the main purposes, of the person avoiding being
eligible for the scheme (“avoidance action”).

12.2

Where—

12.2.a

a person (“ W ”) has been wound up, and

12.2.b

the Secretary of State concludes that—

12.2.b.i

they were wound up as a result of avoidance action, and

12.2.b.ii

they would have been eligible for the scheme but for such avoidance action,

the Secretary of State may direct that another person (“ B ”) in the group of
which W was a member before being wound up, including a person which does not
itself meet the criteria in regulation 7 or 8, is to be treated as eligible to
join the scheme.

12.3

The direction referred to in paragraph (2) must contain a statement that
unless B complies with the conditions in paragraph (4), the Secretary of State
must include the name of B, and the names of persons controlled by B, on the
prohibitions list.

12.4

Where B receives the direction referred to in paragraph (2), regulation 14(2)
applies as though—

12.4.a

B were the person referred to as F in that regulation; and

12.4.b

the notice referred to in paragraph (2)(b) of that regulation were a notice
that W would not have been eligible to join the scheme but for the avoidance
action as a result of which W was wound up.

#### Membership of the scheme

##### Invitation by the Secretary of State to apply for membership

13

13.1

In this regulation––

13.1.a

“E” is a person whom the Secretary of State considers is likely to satisfy the
criteria in regulation 7 or 8 and does not fall within regulation 6(b);

13.1.b

“D” is the designated person in accordance with paragraph (3);

13.1.c

“C” is a person invited to apply to become a member of the scheme in
accordance with paragraphs (2), (4) or (5).

13.2

Subject to paragraphs (3) to (6), the Secretary of State must give notice to E
inviting E to apply to become a member of the scheme.

13.3

Where E is a member of a group and the Secretary of State considers that there
is more than one person in the group who is likely to satisfy the criteria in
regulation 7 or 8 and does not fall within regulation 6(b), the Secretary of
State must direct that only one of those persons is for the time being to be
invited to apply to become a member of the scheme (“the designated person”,
D).

13.4

Where paragraph (3) applies the Secretary of State must give notice to D
inviting D to apply to become a member of the scheme.

13.5

Where a person in E’s group which is not eligible under regulation 6 has
entered into a Self Remediation Contract before the date on which these
Regulations come into force, subject to paragraph (6), the Secretary of State
must give notice inviting the following persons to apply to become a member of
the scheme––

13.5.a

the person who has entered into a Self Remediation Contract, and

13.5.b

either E or, where paragraph (3) applies, D,

and must accept such an application by either the person invited under sub-
paragraph (a) or the person invited under sub-paragraph (b).

13.6

Where, before the date of the notice referred to in paragraph (5), the person
falling within paragraph (5)(a) gives notice to the Secretary of State that
they intend to apply to become a member of the scheme, the Secretary of State
may direct that only that person is for the time being to be invited to apply
to become a member of the scheme, and accordingly is not required by paragraph
(5) to give a notice to any person under paragraph (5)(b).

13.7

The notice given under paragraphs (2) or (4) must contain a statement that
unless C complies with the conditions in regulation 14, the Secretary of State
must include the name of C, and the names of persons controlled by C, on the
prohibitions list.

13.8

Any notices given under paragraph (5) must contain a statement that unless
each person to whom a notice is given complies with the conditions in
regulation 14, the Secretary of State must include the name of any person
falling within paragraph (5)(b), or the person who would have been invited to
join the scheme under that paragraph if notice had not been dispensed with
under paragraph (6), and the names of persons controlled by that person, on
the prohibitions list.

##### Application for membership following invitation

14

14.1

In this regulation––

14.1.a

“F” is a person invited to apply to become a member of the scheme in
accordance with regulation 13(2) or (4);

14.1.b

“G” is a person invited to apply to become a member of the scheme in
accordance with regulation 13(5)(a);

14.1.c

“H” is a person invited to apply to become a member of the scheme in
accordance with regulation 13(5)(b), or, for the purposes of paragraph (3), is
the person who would have been invited to join the scheme under regulation
13(5)(b) if notice had not been dispensed with under regulation 13(6).

14.2

F must, within 60 days beginning with the date of the notice given under
regulation 13(2) or (4), unless that period is extended under paragraph (12)—

14.2.a

enter into a Self Remediation Contract (if they have not already done so) and
submit an application for membership to the Secretary of State in accordance
with paragraph (11); or

14.2.b

give notice to the Secretary of State that neither F nor any body corporate in
the same group as F is eligible to join the scheme and evidence to support
that view must accompany that notice;

and if F does not do so, then with effect from the date that period expires—

14.2.i

F will be treated as a person who is eligible to join the scheme but has not
joined, and

14.2.ii

the name of F and the names of persons controlled by F must be included on the
prohibitions list.

14.3

Where the notice to the person in regulation 13(5)(b) is dispensed with in
accordance with regulation 13(6), G must, within 60 days beginning with the
date of the notice given under regulation 13(5)(a), unless that period is
extended under paragraph (12), submit an application for membership to the
Secretary of State in accordance with paragraph (11) and if G does not do so
then with effect from the date that period expires—

14.3.a

H will be treated as a person who is eligible to join the scheme but has not
joined, and

14.3.b

the name of H and the names of persons controlled by H must be included on the
prohibitions list.

14.4

Where the notice to the person in regulation 13(5)(b) is not dispensed with in
accordance with regulation 13(6), within 60 days beginning with the date of
the notices given under regulation 13(5), unless that period is extended under
paragraph (12)—

14.4.a

either––

14.4.a.i

G must submit an application for membership to the Secretary of State in
accordance with paragraph (11); or

14.4.a.ii

H must enter into a Self Remediation Contract (if they have not already done
so) and submit an application for membership to the Secretary of State in
accordance with paragraph (11); or

14.4.b

both G and H must give notice to the Secretary of State that neither H nor any
body corporate in the same group as them is eligible to join the scheme and
evidence supporting that view must accompany that notice;

and if G and H do not do so, then with effect from the date that period
expires—

14.4.i

H will be treated as a person who is eligible to join the scheme but has not
joined, and

14.4.ii

the name of H and the names of persons controlled by H must be included on the
prohibitions list.

14.5

Where the Secretary of State receives notice under paragraph (2)(b) or (4)(b),
the Secretary of State must determine––

14.5.a

in the case of a notice under paragraph (2)(b), whether F or, where relevant,
any other body corporate in the same group as F, is eligible to join the
scheme;

14.5.b

in the case of a notice under paragraph (4)(b), whether H or, where relevant,
any other body corporate in the same group as H is eligible to join the
scheme.

14.6

The Secretary of State may request that the person giving the notice under
paragraph (2)(b) or (4)(b), or any body corporate in the same group as that
person, provide any further information which the Secretary of State requires
to make a determination under paragraph (5). A request under this paragraph
must—

14.6.a

be by notice in writing;

14.6.b

specify the further information which the Secretary of State requires; and

14.6.c

specify a time by which the information must be provided.

14.7

If a person requested to provide information under paragraph (6) does not
provide the specified information within the period specified in the notice,
the determination under paragraph (5) must be treated as a determination that
F or H, as applicable, is eligible and paragraph (8) will apply.

14.8

Where––

14.8.a

following the giving of a notice under paragraph (2)(b), the Secretary of
State determines that F is eligible to join the scheme (including where
paragraph (7) applies)––

14.8.a.i

the Secretary of State must give notice in writing to F of that determination,
and

14.8.a.ii

to join the scheme, F must enter into a Self Remediation Contract (if they
have not already done so) and submit an application for membership in
accordance with paragraph (11) within 30 days beginning with the date of the
notice of the determination, unless that period is extended under paragraph
(12);

14.8.b

following the giving of a notice under paragraph (4)(b), the Secretary of
State determines that H is eligible to join the scheme (including where
paragraph (7) applies)—

14.8.b.i

the Secretary of State must give notice in writing to H of that determination
(and may give notice to G of the determination), and

14.8.b.ii

to join the scheme, H must enter into a Self Remediation Contract (if they
have not already done so) and submit an application for membership in
accordance with paragraph (11) within 30 days beginning with the date of the
notice of the determination, unless that period is extended under paragraph
(12).

14.9

Where the Secretary of State determines that F or, where applicable, H, is not
eligible to join the scheme, but that a different body corporate in the same
group is eligible (“the eligible body corporate”), the Secretary of State
must—

14.9.a

direct that the eligible body corporate is for the time being to be invited to
apply to become a member of the scheme, and

14.9.b

give notice of his determination to the eligible body corporate,

and the eligible body corporate must enter into a Self Remediation Contract
(if they have not already done so) and submit an application for membership in
accordance with paragraph (11), within 30 days beginning with the date of the
notice of the determination unless that period is extended under paragraph
(12).

14.10

The notice given under paragraph (9) must contain a statement that unless the
eligible body corporate takes the action provided for in that paragraph, the
Secretary of State must include the name of the eligible body corporate, and
the names of persons controlled by the eligible body corporate, on the
prohibitions list.

14.11

An application for membership must—

14.11.a

be made in writing,

14.11.b

set out the date on which the applicant entered into a Self Remediation
Contract, and

14.11.c

contain such other information as the Secretary of State may direct.

14.12

The Secretary of State may extend any time period specified in this regulation
whether or not the Secretary of State receives a request to do so, save that
the Secretary of State may not extend any time period after it has already
expired.

##### Request for an invitation to apply for membership

15

15.1

If a person (“ R ”) considers they are likely to satisfy the criteria in
regulation  7  or  8 , and does not fall within regulation 6(b), but neither R
nor any other person in the same group as R has received a notice under
regulation 13(2), (4) or (5), R may request that the Secretary of State invite
R to apply to become a member of the scheme.

15.2

Where R makes a request under paragraph (1), the Secretary of State must treat
R as though R is the person referred to as E in regulation 13 and must proceed
in accordance with regulations 13 and 14.

##### Applications for volunteers

16

16.1

If a person (“ V ”) considers they are likely to satisfy the criteria in
regulation  9 , and does not fall within regulation 6(b), but neither V nor
any other person in the same group as V has received a notice under regulation
13(2), (4) or (5), V may apply to the Secretary of State for a determination
as to whether V satisfies the criteria in regulation  9 , providing the
Secretary of State with evidence of the application of those criteria to V.

16.2

Subject to paragraph (7), if the Secretary of State determines that V
satisfies the criteria in regulation  9 , the Secretary of State must—

16.2.a

give notice in writing to V of that determination, and

16.2.b

notify V that V must submit an application for membership to the Secretary of
State in accordance with paragraph (5).

16.3

The notice referred to in paragraph (2)(b) must contain the statement that if
V joins the scheme, and V’s membership is later revoked, the Secretary of
State must include V’s name, and the names of persons controlled by V, on the
prohibitions list.

16.4

Where V receives a notice under paragraph (2)(b), to join the scheme V must,
within 60 days beginning with the date of the notice unless that period is
extended under paragraph (6), enter into a Self Remediation Contract (if they
have not already done so) and submit an application for membership in
accordance with paragraph (5).

16.5

An application for membership must—

16.5.a

be made in writing,

16.5.b

set out the date on which the applicant entered into a Self Remediation
Contract, and

16.5.c

contain such other information as the Secretary of State may direct.

16.6

The Secretary of State may extend any time period specified in this regulation
whether or not the Secretary of State receives a request to do so, save that
the Secretary of State may not extend any time period after it has already
expired.

16.7

A person may not apply for membership under this regulation where the person
or a person in their group satisfies the criteria in regulation 7 or 8.

##### Late application for membership

17

17.1

A person (“ L ”) who, in accordance with regulation 14––

17.1.a

has been determined to be eligible to join the scheme but has not joined in
accordance with that regulation, or

17.1.b

is treated as a person who is eligible to join the scheme but has not joined
in accordance with that regulation,

may notify the Secretary of State in writing that it wishes to apply to become
a member of the scheme.

17.2

A notice under paragraph (1) must state that L is willing to enter into a Self
Remediation Contract.

17.3

Following receipt of a notice which complies with paragraph (2), the Secretary
of State must give notice to L inviting L to apply to become a member of the
scheme.

17.4

The notice given under paragraph (3) must contain a statement that until L has
entered into a Self Remediation Contract and become a member of the scheme—

17.4.a

L’s name, and the names of persons controlled by L, will not be removed from
the prohibitions list, and

17.4.b

the prohibitions in Part 3 applicable to persons on the prohibitions list will
continue to apply.

17.5

On receipt of the notice referred to in paragraph (3), to join the scheme L
must—

17.5.a

enter into a Self Remediation Contract (if they have not already done so), and

17.5.b

make an application for membership of the scheme in accordance with paragraph
(6).

17.6

An application for membership must—

17.6.a

be made in writing,

17.6.b

set out the date on which the applicant entered into a Self Remediation
Contract, and

17.6.c

contain such other information as the Secretary of State may direct.

##### Application following revocation of membership

18

18.1

A person (“ N ”) whose membership of the scheme has been revoked by the
Secretary of State in accordance with regulation 26 may notify the Secretary
of State in writing that it wishes to apply to become a member of the scheme.

18.2

A notice under paragraph (1)—

18.2.a

must describe how N proposes to rectify the matters which led to N’s
membership being revoked if N’s membership of the scheme is restored,
providing evidence to support that contention;

18.2.b

must provide evidence of steps already taken to rectify those matters;

18.2.c

if N has ceased to be subject to the Self Remediation Terms, must state that N
is willing to enter into a Self Remediation Contract.

18.3

Following receipt of a notice under paragraph (1), if the Secretary of State
is satisfied that—

18.3.a

the proposals contained in the notice for the purposes of paragraph (2)(a) are
sufficient and appropriately evidenced;

18.3.b

N has taken reasonable steps to rectify the matters which led to N’s
membership being revoked; and

18.3.c

where relevant, the request contains the statement required by paragraph
(2)(c),

the Secretary of State must give notice to N inviting N to apply to become a
member of the scheme.

18.4

The notice given under paragraph (3) must contain a statement that until N has
entered into a Self Remediation Contract (if N has ceased to be subject to the
Self Remediation Terms), and has become a member of the scheme—

18.4.a

N’s name, and the names of persons controlled by N, will not be removed from
the prohibitions list; and

18.4.b

the prohibitions in Part 3 applicable to persons on the prohibitions list will
continue to apply.

18.5

On receipt of the notice referred to in paragraph (3), to join the scheme N
must—

18.5.a

enter into a new Self Remediation Contract, if N has ceased to be subject to
the Self Remediation Terms; and

18.5.b

make an application for membership of the scheme in accordance with paragraph
(6).

18.6

An application for membership must—

18.6.a

be made in writing,

18.6.b

set out the date on which the applicant entered into a Self Remediation
Contract, and

18.6.c

contain such other information as the Secretary of State may direct.

##### Determination of applications

19

19.1

Where the Secretary of State receives an application for membership in
accordance with regulations 14, 16, 17 or 18, the Secretary of State must—

19.1.a

register the applicant as a member of the scheme,

19.1.b

notify the applicant that they have been so registered, and

19.1.c

inform them of the date from which their registration takes effect.

19.2

If the application is made under regulation 17 or 18, on receipt of the
application the Secretary of State must remove the applicant’s name, and the
names of persons controlled by the applicant, from the prohibitions list.

##### Publication of list of members, prohibitions list and other lists

20

20.1

The Secretary of State must prepare, maintain and publish—

20.1.a

a list of members of the scheme, and

20.1.b

a list of persons to whom regulation 28 applies (“the prohibitions list”).

20.2

The Secretary of State may not include a person on the prohibitions list if
that person has had the planning and building control prohibitions disapplied
in their entirety in accordance with regulation 42.

20.3

Before including a person on the prohibitions list the Secretary of State must
give notice to the person in accordance with these Regulations that they are
to be included on the list.

20.4

The notice referred to in paragraph (3) must contain the following
information—

20.4.a

the date from which the person is to be included on the prohibitions list; and

20.4.b

where applicable, the date or dates by which the person must make an
application for any exceptions provided for in these Regulations.

20.5

The Secretary of State may also publish a list of persons to whom the
Secretary of State has sent a warning notice under regulation  25  which has
not been withdrawn.

#### Conditions of scheme

##### Self Remediation Terms

21

21.1

Subject to paragraph (3), a member of the scheme must enter into a contract
with the Secretary of State (“a Self Remediation Contract”) which contains
terms that apply to contracts between a developer and the Secretary of State
providing for the developer to undertake the remediation of the buildings for
which they are responsible, as published by the Secretary of State on 16th
March 2023 and referred to as the developer remediation contract (“the Self
Remediation Terms”).

21.2

Each member of the scheme must, in accordance with the Self Remediation Terms—

21.2.a

identify those buildings for which they are responsible in accordance with the
Self Remediation Terms (“their own buildings”) which require works to remedy
fire safety defects;

21.2.b

undertake at their own cost, or procure at their own cost, the works necessary
to remediate or fully to mitigate any fire safety defects (“remediation
works”) in their own buildings, where this is required under the Self
Remediation Terms and in accordance with the standards applicable to those
works as provided for in the Self Remediation Terms;

21.2.c

accept responsibility for undertaking remediation works at their own cost, or
procuring remediation works at their own cost, to such fund buildings as they
are required to or agree to accept under the Self Remediation Terms;

21.2.d

make payment to the government of any amounts paid out by any government fund
for remediation works on their own buildings as required by the Self
Remediation Terms;

21.2.e

not undertake or procure others to undertake restructuring or other actions
that would, or would reasonably be expected to, result in the member being
unable to fulfil its obligations under the Self Remediation Terms except in
the circumstances allowed under the Self Remediation Terms; and

21.2.f

comply with all other obligations to which they are subject under the Self
Remediation Terms.

21.3

A member of the scheme who has entered into a contract with the Secretary of
State on the same or substantially the same terms as the Self Remediation
Terms before the date on which these Regulations come into force is to be
treated as satisfying the scheme condition in paragraph (1), and references to
Self Remediation Contract in these Regulations are to be treated as including
references to the terms of such a contract.

21.4

In this regulation—

      “ fire safety defect ” has the same meaning as the term “Defect” in the
Self Remediation Terms;           “ fund building ” has the meaning given in
the definition of “Fund Building” in the Self Remediation Terms.

##### Provision of information to the Secretary of State

22

A member of the scheme must—

22.a

give the Secretary of State any information they are required to provide under
the Self Remediation Terms, at the times or in respect of the periods
specified in the Self Remediation Terms;

22.b

provide the Secretary of State with such other information specified by the
Secretary of State which the Secretary of State reasonably requires in order
to monitor and enforce their compliance with the Self Remediation Terms and
these Regulations.

##### Membership conditions: avoidance

23

A member of the scheme must not themselves take, or procure other persons to
take, any step where the main purpose, or one of the main purposes, is to
avoid the member’s obligations under these Regulations or to frustrate the
purposes of the scheme set out in regulation 5.

#### Termination of membership

##### Grounds for revocation of membership

24

24.1

The Secretary of State may revoke any member’s membership of the scheme where—

24.1.a

the member (“M”, in this regulation and in regulations 25 to 27) has failed to
comply with any of the membership conditions in regulation 21(2)(a) to (e) or
with any other requirement of the Self Remediation Terms, and that failure is
material or persistent;

24.1.b

M has failed without reasonable excuse to comply with a request for
information under regulation 22;

24.1.c

M has provided information to the Secretary of State in an application for
membership of the scheme or in response to a request for information under
regulation 22 and M—

24.1.c.i

knew the information to be false or misleading in a material respect, or

24.1.c.ii

provided such information recklessly, and the information is false or
misleading in a material respect;

24.1.d

M has failed to comply with regulation 23.

24.2

Nothing in paragraph (1) may be taken to mean that the Secretary of State may
only revoke a member’s membership of the scheme where a right to terminate a
Self Remediation Contract arises under and in accordance with the Self
Remediation Terms or is otherwise available at law.

##### Warning of revocation of membership

25

25.1

Where the Secretary of State considers that one or more of the grounds for
revocation of M’s membership of the scheme under regulation 24(1) exist, the
Secretary of State may give M a notice (“a warning notice”) stating that the
Secretary of State is proposing to start the procedure for revocation of M’s
membership in accordance with regulation 26.

25.2

The warning notice must specify—

25.2.a

the reasons—

25.2.a.i

why the Secretary of State considers that there are grounds to revoke M’s
membership;

25.2.a.ii

if the Secretary of State proposes to impose conditions under paragraph (3),
why the Secretary of State proposes to do so;

25.2.b

a period of 28 days after the day on which the warning notice is given (“the
representation period”), within which M may make representations to the
Secretary of State, and

25.2.c

where the Secretary of State publishes a list under regulation 20(5), that M’s
name will be included on that list and the date from which M is to be included
on that list.

25.3

The conditions which may be specified in the warning notice are conditions
which would allow M to continue as a member of the scheme, if complied with in
the period specified in the notice (“the compliance period”).

25.4

If M makes any representations to the Secretary of State during the
representation period, the Secretary of State must, at the end of that period,
after considering M’s representations, decide whether to—

25.4.a

withdraw the warning notice and remove M’s name from any list published under
regulation 20(5);

25.4.b

confirm the warning notice but vary any conditions which have been specified
including by varying the compliance period;

25.4.c

confirm the warning notice as first given to M.

25.5

The Secretary of State must give M notice in writing of the decision taken
under paragraph (4).

25.6

Where the warning notice contains conditions under paragraph (3), the notice
of the Secretary of State’s decision under paragraph (5) must—

25.6.a

confirm which conditions are to apply, and

25.6.b

state the date from which the conditions come into effect and from which the
compliance period will run.

##### Procedure for revocation of membership

26

26.1

Where the Secretary of State considers that one or more of the grounds for
revocation of M’s membership of the scheme under regulation 24(1) exist, and
the Secretary of State proposes to revoke M’s membership of the scheme, a
notice must be given to M specifying—

26.1.a

the grounds for the revocation of M’s membership;

26.1.b

the reasons why the Secretary of State considers that those grounds exist;

26.1.c

a period of 28 days after the date on which the notice is given, within which
M may make representations to the Secretary of State (“the representation
period”);

26.1.d

where M was given a warning notice under regulation 25 specifying conditions
under regulation  25(3) , and that notice was not withdrawn, the reasons why
the Secretary of State considers that M has not satisfied the conditions in
the warning notice.

26.2

The Secretary of State—

26.2.a

may not take the final decision to revoke M’s membership of the scheme until
the representation period has expired, and

26.2.b

must take any representations made during the representation period into
account, and may, in the Secretary of State’s discretion, take into account
any representations made after the end of that period, in taking that
decision.

26.3

The Secretary of State must make a final decision and may revoke M’s
membership where one or more of the grounds for revocation of M’s membership
of the scheme in regulation 24(1) exist.

26.4

The Secretary of State must give M notice of a final decision, and where the
decision is to revoke M’s membership, that notice must—

26.4.a

set out the reasons for the decision,

26.4.b

state the date on which the revocation of M’s membership takes effect, and

26.4.c

inform M that M’s name and the names of persons controlled by M will from that
date be included on the prohibitions list.

26.5

The Secretary of State may issue a notice under paragraph (1) whether or not
the Secretary of State has previously given M a warning notice under
regulation 25.

##### Ending membership otherwise than by revocation

27

27.1

The Secretary of State may end M’s membership of the scheme where M has
substantially satisfied all of M’s obligations under these Regulations and the
Self Remediation Terms.

27.2

Where M’s membership has ended under paragraph (1), M’s name and the names of
persons controlled by M must not be included in the prohibitions list and M
and those persons are not subject to the prohibitions in Part 3.

### Planning and Building Control Prohibitions

#### Application

##### Application of prohibitions

28

28.1

Subject to paragraph (2), this Part applies to the following persons—

28.1.a

those persons who at the date of being included on the prohibitions list are
treated as eligible or have been determined to be eligible to be members of
the scheme in accordance with regulation 14 but who at that date have not
become members in accordance with that regulation;

28.1.b

those persons who were members of the scheme but who, at the date of being
included on the prohibitions list, are no longer members of the scheme
following revocation of membership under regulation 26,

(together with paragraph (a), “eligible non-members”); and

28.1.c

those persons who are controlled by any eligible non-member.

28.2

This regulation does not apply to a person until the date they are included on
the prohibitions list and will apply only to persons who are included on the
prohibitions list.

28.3

For the purposes of this Part “an applicable person” is a person who falls
within paragraph (1) and is included on the prohibitions list.

#### Prohibition on Development

##### Planning prohibition

29

29.1

An applicable person is prohibited from carrying out major development of land
in England.

29.2

An applicable person is prohibited from carrying out major development of land
in England through any agent or contractor or any other person acting for or
on their behalf.

29.3

In this regulation, “ major development ” has the meaning given by article 2
of the Town and Country Planning (Development Management Procedure) (England)
Order 2015 .

29.4

This regulation is subject to regulation 31.

##### Notice of prohibition

30

30.1

An applicable person must notify the relevant local planning authority that
they are a person to whom regulation 29 applies when—

30.1.a

they apply for planning permission, or make a subsequent application for, or
relating to, major development;

30.1.b

they acquire an interest in land, or a contractual entitlement to develop
land, which has the benefit of planning permission for major development; or

30.1.c

they transfer all their interest in land which has the benefit of such a
permission to a person that is not an applicable person.

30.2

An applicable person must notify the relevant local planning authority when
they cease to be an applicable person.

30.3

In this regulation—

      “ relevant local planning authority ” means the local planning authority
for the area in which the major development is to be carried out;           “
subsequent application ” has the same meaning as in regulation 32.

##### Exception for critical national infrastructure

31

31.1

The Secretary of State may disapply the prohibition in regulation 29 in
relation to an applicable person in respect of a specific site, if in the view
of the Secretary of State—

31.1.a

the development or proposed development relates to critical national
infrastructure; and

31.1.b

it is in the public interest to disapply the prohibition.

31.2

In this regulation—

      “ critical national infrastructure ” means those elements of
infrastructure, the loss or compromise of which or inadequate provision of
which may result in—           a major detrimental impact on the availability,
integrity or delivery of essential services, including services whose
integrity, if compromised, could result in significant loss of life or
casualties, taking into account significant economic or social impacts;
a significant impact on national security, national defence, or the
functioning of the state,           and includes development which is
necessary to facilitate the safe or effective construction or operation of the
critical national infrastructure concerned;           “ elements of
infrastructure ” means the assets, facilities, systems or networks that
operate or facilitate the operation of the infrastructure.

##### Transitional provision

32

32.1

The prohibition in regulation 29 does not apply to development for which
planning permission has been granted before the date on which these
Regulations come into force, unless a subsequent application is required for
all or part of the development, and that application has not been determined
before that date.

32.2

For the purpose of this regulation and regulation 30, “ subsequent application
” means an application for approval of a matter where the approval—

32.2.a

is required by or under a condition to which the planning permission is
subject; and

32.2.b

must be obtained before all or part of the development permitted by the
planning permission may be begun.

#### Building Control Prohibitions

##### Building control prohibitions

33

33.1

An applicable person is subject to each of the building control prohibitions
in section 129(4) of the Act.

33.2

This regulation is subject to regulations 34,   34A,  35, 36, 37 and 38.

33.3

An applicable person may not give any document listed in paragraph (4) and
accordingly those documents are prescribed for the purposes of section
129(4)(g) of the Act.

33.4

The documents referred to in paragraph (3) are—

33.4.a

an initial notice within the meaning of section 47 of the Building Act 1984
(giving and acceptance of initial notice);

33.4.b

a building notice within the meaning of regulation 2 of the Building
Regulations 2010 (interpretation);

33.4.c

a request for plans certificate under section 50(1) (plans certificate) of the
Building Act 1984;

33.4.d

an amendment notice within the meaning of section 51A of the Building Act 1984
(variation of work to which initial notice relates);

33.4.e

an application for a certificate under regulation 17 (completion certificates)
or 17A (certificate for building occupied before work is completed) of the
Building Regulations 2010;

33.4.ea

an application for a certificate under regulation 40 (completion certificate
applications) or regulation 45 (partial completion certificates) of the
Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023;

33.4.f

an application for a certificate under regulation 18 of the Building
Regulations 2010 (unauthorised building work);

33.4.fa

an application for a certificate under regulation 47 (regularisation of
unauthorised building work) of the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures)
(England) Regulations 2023 .

33.5

No person may give any document listed in paragraph (6) to an applicable
person or to any other person in respect of works carried out or to be carried
out by an applicable person and accordingly those documents are prescribed for
the purposes of section 129(4)(h) of the Act.

33.6

The documents referred to in paragraph (5) are—

33.6.a

a notice of passing or rejection of plans within the meaning of section 16(6)
of the Building Act 1984;

33.6.b

a certificate under regulation 17 of the Building Regulations 2010 (completion
certificates);

33.6.ba

a certificate under regulation 44 (completion certificate applications:
decisions) of the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England)
Regulations 2023;

33.6.c

a certificate under regulation 17A of the Building Regulations 2010
(certificate for building occupied before work is completed);

33.6.ca

a certificate under regulation 45 (partial completion certificates) of the
Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023;

33.6.d

a plans certificate within the meaning of section 50 (plans certificate) of
the Building Act 1984;

33.6.e

a final certificate within the meaning of section 51 (final certificate) of
the Building Act 1984;

33.6.f

a regularisation certificate within the meaning of regulation 18(5) of the
Building Regulations 2010 (unauthorised building work);

33.6.g

a certificate under regulation 47 (regularisation of unauthorised building
work) of the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations
2023 .

33.7

No person may accept any document listed in paragraph (8) where it is given by
an applicable person and accordingly those documents are prescribed for the
purposes of section 129(4)(i) of the Act.

33.8

The documents referred to in paragraph (7) are—

33.8.a

plans deposited under section 16 of the Building Act 1984;

33.8.b

an initial notice within the meaning of section 47 of the Building Act 1984
(giving and acceptance of initial notice);

33.8.c

an amendment notice within the meaning of section 51A of the Building Act 1984
(variation of work to which initial notice relates);

33.8.d

a plans certificate within the meaning of section 50 (plans certificate) of
the Building Act 1984;

33.8.e

a final certificate within the meaning of section 51 (final certificate) of
the Building Act 1984;

33.8.f

an application for a certificate under regulation 17 (completion certificates)
or 17A (certificate for building occupied before work is completed) of the
Building Regulations 2010;

33.8.fa

an application for a certificate under regulation 40 (completion certificate
applications) or regulation 45 (partial completion certificates) of the
Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023;

33.8.g

an application for a certificate under regulation 18 of the Building
Regulations 2010 (unauthorised building work);

33.8.h

an application for a certificate under regulation 47 (regularisation of
unauthorised building work) of the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures)
(England) Regulations 2023 .

33.9

An applicable person may not take any action prohibited by this regulation
through any agent or contractor or any other person acting for or on their
behalf.

##### Exception to building control prohibition: emergency repair work

34

34.1

Where an applicable person proposes to carry out building work which consists
of emergency repair work then, subject to paragraph (2), the provision by them
of a building notice pursuant to regulation 12(8) of the Building Regulations
2010 is not to be treated as a breach of a building control prohibition.

34.2

Paragraph (1) applies only where—

34.2.a

each of the criteria in regulation 12(8)(a) to (c) of the Building Regulations
2010 are satisfied;

34.2.b

the applicable person gives the   relevant authority   the relevant building
notice as soon as reasonably practicable after the commencement of the work
and explains on giving that notice—

34.2.b.i

that they are an applicable person but that this provision applies to them;
and

34.2.b.ii

the nature of the emergency repairs required to be undertaken.

34.3

In this regulation “ relevant authority ” has the meaning given in regulation
2 of the Building Regulations 2010.

##### Exception to building control prohibition: emergency repair work to existing HRB

34A

34A.1

Where an applicable person proposes to carry out work to existing HRB which
consists of emergency repairs then—

34A.1.a

the provision by them of a notice under regulation 10(1)(a) (notification of
emergency repairs to existing HRB) of the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings
Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023, and

34A.1.b

an application for a certificate in relation to that work under regulation 47
(regularisation of unauthorised building work) of those Regulations,

are not to be treated as a breach of the building control prohibition.

34A.2

Where paragraph (1) applies, the regulator is not prohibited from giving the
applicable person a certificate under regulation 47 (regularisation of
unauthorised building work) of the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures)
(England) Regulations 2023.

34A.3

In this regulation—

“ emergency repairs ” has the meaning given in regulation 10(2) of the
Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023; “ the
regulator ” has the meaning in section 126 of the Building Act 1984; “ work to
existing HRB ” has the meaning given in regulation 2 of the Building (Higher-
Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023.

##### Exception to building control prohibition: work to occupied buildings

35

35.1

An applicable person is not prohibited from—

35.1.a

depositing plans under section 16 of the Building Act 1984;

35.1.aa

giving an application for building control approval to a building control
authority;

35.1.b

giving an initial notice within the meaning of section 47 of the Building Act
1984 (giving and acceptance of initial notice); or

35.1.c

giving a building notice within the meaning of regulation 2 of the Building
Regulations 2010 (interpretation),

in relation to relevant building work to be carried out to an existing
occupied building where on the application date the work had not started.

35.2

Where plans are deposited pursuant to paragraph (1) the local authority is not
prohibited from giving the applicable person a notice of passing or rejection
in relation to those plans under section 16(6) of the Building Act 1984.

35.2A

Where an application for building control approval has been given pursuant to
paragraph (1), a building control authority is not prohibited from granting a
building control approval to the applicable person.

35.3

Where an initial notice is given pursuant to paragraph (1) the local authority
is not prohibited from giving the applicable person a notice accepting or
rejecting that initial notice under section 47 of the Building Act 1984.

35.4

Where relevant building work is carried out to an existing occupied building
following the depositing or giving of a document under paragraph (1)—

35.4.a

then the applicable person is not prohibited from giving—

35.4.a.i

an application for a certificate under regulation 17 of the Building
Regulations 2010 (completion certificates) in relation to the work;

35.4.a.ia

an application for a certificate under regulation 40 (completion certificate
applications) of the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England)
Regulations 2023 in relation to the work;

35.4.a.ii

an application for a certificate under regulation 17A of the Building
Regulations 2010 (certificate for building occupied before work is completed)
in relation to the work;

35.4.a.iia

an application for a certificate under regulation 45 (partial completion
certificates) of the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England)
Regulations 2023 in relation to the work;

35.4.a.iii

a request for a plans certificate under section 50(1) (plans certificate) of
the Building Act 1984 in relation to the work;

35.4.b

then, in respect of the work, a person may give to the applicable person—

35.4.b.i

a plans certificate within the meaning of section 50 (plans certificate) of
the Building Act 1984 in relation to the work;

35.4.b.ii

a final certificate within the meaning of section 51 (final certificate) of
the Building Act 1984 in relation to the work.

35.5

Where paragraph (4) applies the   relevant authority   is not prohibited from
giving the person a certificate under regulation 18 of the Building
Regulations 2010 in relation to the work.

35.5A

Where paragraph (4) applies, the regulator is not prohibited from giving the
applicable person a certificate under regulation 47 (regularisation of
unauthorised building work) of the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures)
(England) Regulations 2023.

35.6

Where paragraph (4) applies the local authority is not prohibited from giving
the person a notice accepting or rejecting that final certificate under
section 51 of the Building Act 1984.

35.7

In this regulation—

“ application date ” means the date on which the document referred to in
paragraph (1) is deposited or given by the applicable person;   “ building
control authority ” has the meaning given in regulation 2 of the Building
Regulations 2010;   “ dwelling ” has the meaning in regulation 2 of the
Building Regulations 2010; “ material change of use ” has the meaning in
regulation 5 of the Building Regulations 2010; “ occupied ”, in relation to a
building, means at least one dwelling contained in the building is occupied by
an arm’s length third party on the application date;   “ relevant authority ”
has the meaning given in regulation 2 of the Building Regulations 2010;   “
relevant building work ” means any building work except work done to give
effect to a material change of use of the building or part of the building.

##### Exception to building control prohibition: purchasers

36

36.1

The Secretary of State may on the application of an applicable person grant an
exception to the building control prohibitions—

36.1.a

to permit the issuing by a   relevant authority   of a certificate under
regulation 17 (completion certificate) of the Building Regulations 2010;

36.1.aa

to permit the issuing by the regulator of a certificate in relation to that
work under regulation 44 (completion certificate applications: decisions) of
the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023;

36.1.b

to permit the acceptance by a local authority of a final certificate within
the meaning of section 51 (final certificate) of the Building Act 1984 in
relation to a particular building;

in respect of a specific building where the Secretary of State is satisfied
that the criteria in paragraph (2) are met.

36.2

The criteria in this paragraph are met where—

36.2.a

before the applicable person became an applicable person—

36.2.a.i

building work in respect of the building had been commenced by the applicable
person;

36.2.a.ii

there is a person who exchanged a contract for the sale and purchase of a
dwelling contained in the building, or for the building where it comprises a
single dwelling (“ the purchaser ”);

36.2.a.iii

the purchaser has paid or is liable to pay to the seller of the dwelling or
building a deposit in accordance with the terms of that contract;

36.2.b

the purchaser is not in the same group as the applicable person and the
purchase of the dwelling or building is an arm’s length transaction at market
value and on arm’s length terms;

36.2.c

the purchase of the dwelling or building is for domestic and not for business
or commercial purposes; and

36.2.d

the Secretary of State is satisfied that the interests of the purchaser will
be materially prejudiced if the exception is not granted and that the grant of
the exception is not contrary to or likely to frustrate the purposes of the
scheme set out at regulation 5.

36.3

An application under this regulation must—

36.3.a

be made in writing;

36.3.b

be supported by evidence as to each of the criteria in paragraph (2).

36.4

The Secretary of State may, by notice in writing, require the applicant to
provide by a time specified in the notice any further information which the
Secretary of State requires to make a determination under this regulation.

36.5

If a person required to provide information under paragraph (4) does not
provide the specified information within the period specified in the notice,
their application under this regulation is to be treated as having been
refused.

36.6

An application under this regulation must be made before any document referred
to in paragraph (1) is sought, given, issued or accepted, and any such
document sought or purported to be given, issued or accepted (as the case may
be) before the Secretary of State has granted an exception under this
regulation is not to be treated as validly given, issued or accepted.

36.7

In this regulation “ relevant authority ” has the meaning given in regulation
2 of the Building Regulations 2010.

##### Exception to building control prohibitions and modification of the Building Regulations 2010: regularisation

37

37.1

A relevant purchaser is not prohibited from giving an application for a
certificate under regulation 18 (unauthorised building work) of the Building
Regulations 2010 and a   relevant authority   is not prohibited from granting
such a certificate.

37.1A

Where the building is a higher-risk building, a relevant purchaser is not
prohibited from giving the regulator an application for a certificate under
regulation 47 (regularisation of unauthorised building work) of the Building
(Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023 and the
regulator is not prohibited from granting such a certificate.

37.2

In this regulation “ relevant purchaser ” means—

37.2.a

any purchaser or owner of an individual dwelling built by an applicable
person, or

37.2.b

any purchaser or owner of any building or any part of a building built by an
applicable person,

provided that the relevant purchaser is not in the same group as the
applicable person and the purchase is an arm’s length transaction where the
purchaser acquired the dwelling or building or part of a building in the
ordinary course of business (where applicable), at market value and on arm’s
length terms.

37.2A

In this regulation “ relevant authority ” has the meaning given in regulation
2 of the Building Regulations 2010.

37.3

For the purposes of paragraph (1), regulation 18 of the Building Regulations
2010 is to have effect in relation to an application for a certificate under
that regulation by a relevant purchaser as if any work carried out by an
applicable person which was not unauthorised building work (within the meaning
set out in that regulation) were treated as if it were unauthorised building
work.

37.4

For the purposes of paragraph (1A), regulation 47 (regularisation of
unauthorised building work) of the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures)
(England) Regulations 2023 is to have effect in relation to an application
under that regulation by a relevant purchaser as if any work carried out by an
applicable person which was not unauthorised building work (within the meaning
set out in that regulation) were treated as if it were unauthorised building
work.

##### Exception for critical national infrastructure

38

38.1

The Secretary of State may disapply any or all of the building control
prohibitions in relation to an applicable person in respect of a specific
building or site, if in the view of the Secretary of State—

38.1.a

the building work or proposed building work relates to critical national
infrastructure; and

38.1.b

it is in the public interest to disapply the prohibition.

38.2

In this regulation—

“ critical national infrastructure ” means those elements of infrastructure,
the loss or compromise of or inadequate provision of which may result in—
major detrimental impact on the availability, integrity or delivery of
essential services, including services whose integrity, if compromised, could
result in significant loss of life or casualties, taking into account
significant economic or social impacts; a significant impact on national
security, national defence, or the functioning of the state, and includes
building works which are necessary to facilitate the safe or effective
construction or operation of the critical national infrastructure concerned; “
elements of infrastructure ” means the assets, facilities, systems or networks
that operate and facilitate the infrastructure.

##### Effect of things done in contravention of these Regulations

39

39.1

Where, notwithstanding the prohibitions imposed by regulation 33, a document
referred to in regulation 33(3) or (5) is given, then—

39.1.a

that document is not to be treated as validly given, and

39.1.b

any decision or action taken in relation to such a document is not to be
treated as validly taken, in particular—

39.1.b.i

no plans purported to be passed are to be treated as validly passed;

39.1.b.ii

no notice purported to be accepted is to be treated as validly accepted;

39.1.b.iii

no certificate purported to be granted is to be treated as validly granted;

39.1.b.iv

no application purported to be granted is to be treated as validly granted.

39.2

Where, notwithstanding the prohibitions imposed by regulation 33, a document
referred to in regulation 33(7) is accepted, then—

39.2.a

that document is not to be treated as validly accepted, and

39.2.b

any decision or action taken in relation to such a document is not to be
treated as validly taken, in particular—

39.2.b.i

no plans purported to be passed is to be treated as validly passed;

39.2.b.ii

no notice purported to be accepted is to be treated as validly accepted;

39.2.b.iii

no certificate purported to be accepted or granted is to be treated as validly
accepted or granted;

39.2.b.iv

no application purported to be granted is to be treated as validly granted.

##### Transitional provision

40

40.1

The prohibitions imposed by regulation 33 do not affect the validity of any
document given by or to the applicable person, where that document is given by
or to them on a date before that person was an applicable person.

40.2

The prohibitions imposed by regulation 33 do not affect the validity of the
acceptance of any document which is given by the applicable person, where that
acceptance is given on a date before that person was an applicable person.

#### Enforcement and disapplication of the prohibitions to certain persons not in the building industry

##### Application of Part 7 (Enforcement) of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990

41

Part 7 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990  applies in respect of a
breach of the prohibition in regulation 29 with the modifications set out in
the Schedule to these Regulations.

##### Exception: disapplication of the prohibitions to certain persons not in the building industry

42

42.1

In respect of persons referred to in regulation 28(1)(c) only, a person who
receives a notice under regulation 20(3) may make an application in writing to
the Secretary of State in accordance with this regulation requesting that the
planning and building control prohibitions not be applied to them on the
ground they are not a person in the building industry.

42.2

Subject to paragraphs (3) to (8), an exception under paragraph (1) must be
granted where the Secretary of State is satisfied that the person applying for
the exception is not a person in the building industry.

42.3

Where the Secretary of State grants an exception under this regulation, it may
be revoked at any time and the person to whom it was granted included on the
prohibitions list, if the Secretary of State considers that the person has
commenced carrying on activities in the building industry.

42.4

An application under this regulation must—

42.4.a

be accompanied by evidence as to why the applicant is not a person in the
building industry;

42.4.b

state that, if the application is granted, the applicant undertakes to notify
the Secretary of State if they commence or intend to commence carrying on
activities in the building industry.

42.5

The Secretary of State may refuse the application if the statement in
paragraph (4)(b) is not provided.

42.6

The Secretary of State may, by notice in writing, require the applicant to
provide by a time specified in the notice any further information which the
Secretary of State requires to make a determination under this regulation.

42.7

If a person requested to produce information under paragraph (6) does not,
within the period specified in the notice, produce the specified information,
their application under paragraph (1) is to be treated as having been refused.

42.8

The Secretary of State may not grant an exception under this regulation unless
satisfied that granting the exception is not contrary to or likely to
frustrate the purposes of the scheme provided for in regulation 5.

### Review

#### Review

43

43.1

The Secretary of State must from time to time—

43.1.a

carry out a review of the regulatory provision contained in these Regulations,
and

43.1.b

publish a report setting out the conclusions of that review.

43.2

Section 30(4) of the 2015 Act requires that the report must, in particular—

43.2.a

set out the objectives intended to be achieved by the regulatory provision,

43.2.b

assess the extent to which those objectives are achieved,

43.2.c

assess whether those objectives remain appropriate, and

43.2.d

if those objectives remain appropriate, assess the extent to which they could
be achieved in another way that involves less onerous regulatory provision.

43.3

Section 30(5) of the 2015 Act requires that the first report must be published
before the fifth anniversary of the date on which these Regulations come into
force.

43.4

Section 30(6) of the 2015 Act requires that subsequent reports must be
published at intervals not exceeding five years.

43.5

In this regulation—

      “ the 2015 Act ” means the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act
2015;           “ regulatory provision ” has the meaning given in section 32
of the 2015 Act.

      Lee Rowley   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department for
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities     3rd July 2023

  Modifications to the Town and Country Planning Act 1990

Regulation 41

1

Part 7 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990  applies—

1.a

as if the following sections were omitted—

1.a.i

section 173ZA (enforcement warning notice: Wales);

1.a.ii

section 187A (enforcement of conditions);

1.a.iii

section 189 (penalties for contravention of orders under s. 102 and Schedule
9);

1.a.iv

section 190 (enforcement of orders under s. 102 and Schedule 9);

1.a.v

sections 191 to 196 (certificate of lawful use or development); and

1.a.vi

section 196D (offence of failing to obtain planning permission for demolition
of unlisted etc buildings in conservation area in England);

1.a.vii

section 196E (power to provide relief from enforcement of planning
conditions); and

1.a.vii

section 172ZA (enforcement warning notice: England.

1.b

subject to the modifications set out in the following paragraphs of this
Schedule.

##### Modification of section 171A (expressions used in connection with enforcement)

2

Section 171A  applies as if—

2.a

for subsection (1) there were substituted—

2.a.1

For the purposes of this Part, carrying out any material operation in
contravention of the prohibition in regulation  29  of the Building Safety
(Responsible Actors Scheme and Prohibitions) Regulations 2023, constitutes a
breach of planning control.

;

2.b

for subsection (3), there were substituted—

2.b.3

In this Part—

      “ planning permission ” includes permission under Part III of the 1947
Act, or of the 1962 Act or of the 1971 Act;           “ the prohibition ”
means the prohibition in regulation 29 of the Building Safety (Responsible
Actors Scheme and Prohibitions) Regulations 2023;           “ Responsible
Actors Scheme ” means the scheme established under regulation 5 of the
Building Safety (Responsible Actors Scheme and Prohibitions) Regulations 2023;

;

2.c

after subsection (3) there were inserted—

2.c.4

In this section, “ material operation ” has the meaning given in section
56(4).

.

##### Modification of section 171C (power to require information about activities on land)

3

Section 171C  applies as if—

3.a

in subsection (1), for paragraph (b) there were substituted—

3.a.b

appears to the local planning authority to have breached planning control.

;

3.b

in subsection (2)—

3.b.i

at the end of paragraph (a), “and” were omitted;

3.b.ii

at the end of paragraph (b), there were inserted—

and

3.b.ii.c

any matter relating to that person’s membership of the Responsible Actors
Scheme or the application at any time of the prohibition to that person,

;

3.c

in subsection (4)(a), for the words “to apply for planning permission” to the
end, there were substituted  “to remedy the breach of planning control” .

##### Modification of section 171E (temporary stop notice)

4

Section 171E applies as if in subsection (1)—

4.a

in paragraph (a), at the end “and” were omitted;

4.b

paragraph (b) were omitted.

##### Modification of section 171F (temporary stop notice: restrictions)

5

Section 171F applies as if—

5.a

in subsection (1), paragraph (b) were omitted;

5.b

subsections (2) to (4) were omitted.

##### Modification of section 171H (temporary stop notices: compensation)

6

Section 171H applies as if for it there were substituted—

6.171H

6.171H.1

Subject to paragraph (2), this section applies where—

6.171H.1.a

a temporary stop notice is issued; and

6.171H.1.b

either—

6.171H.1.b.i

it is determined that there has not been a breach of planning control; or

6.171H.1.b.ii

the authority withdraws the notice.

6.171H.2

This section does not apply in a case where a person is member of the
Responsible Actors Scheme on or after the day on which a copy of the notice is
first displayed as mentioned in section 171E(6), whether or not their
membership has been treated as having retrospective effect.

6.171H.3

A person who at the time the notice is served has an interest in the land to
which the notice relates is entitled to be compensated by the local planning
authority in respect of any loss or damage directly attributable to the
prohibition effected by the notice.

6.171H.4

Subsections (3) to (7) of section 186 apply in relation to a claim for
compensation payable under this section—

6.171H.4.a

as they apply to compensation payable under that section; and

6.171H.4.b

reading each reference to a “stop notice” in those subsections as if it were a
reference to a temporary stop notice.

.

##### Modification of section 172 (issue of enforcement notice)

7

Section 172 applies as if for subsection (1)(b) there were substituted—

7.b

that it is expedient to issue the notice

.

##### Modification of section 173 (contents and effect of notice)

8

Section 173 applies as if—

8.a

for subsection (1) there were substituted—

8.a.1

Subject to subsection (10), an enforcement notice must state the matters which
appear to the local planning authority to constitute the breach of planning
control.

;

8.b

in subsection (2), for “subsection (1)(a)” substitute  “subsection (1)” ;

8.c

for subsection (4), there were substituted—

8.c.4

Those purposes are—

8.c.4.a

ensuring compliance with the prohibition;

8.c.4.b

remedying any injury to amenity which has been caused by the breach.

;

8.d

for subsection (10) there were substituted—

8.d.10

An enforcement notice must—

8.d.10.a

specify the precise boundaries of the land to which the notice relates,
whether by reference to a plan or otherwise;

8.d.10.b

contain a list of the names and addresses of the persons on whom a copy of the
enforcement notice has been served;

8.d.10.c

be accompanied by an explanatory note providing information relating to—

8.d.10.c.i

any relevant right of appeal;

8.d.10.c.ii

the grounds on which an appeal may be brought under this Part.

.

##### Modification of section 174 (appeal against enforcement notice)

9

Section 174  applies as if—

9.a

in subsection (2), paragraphs (a) and (f) were omitted;

9.b

Reg 3(2) subsections (2A), (2AA), (2AB), (2AC), (2B) and (2D) to (2F) were
omitted.

9.c

in subsection (4)—

9.c.i

in the opening words, for “prescribed time” there were substituted  “time
specified in subsection (4A)” ;

9.c.ii

for paragraph (b), there were substituted—

9.c.ii.b

setting out briefly the facts on which the person proposes to rely in support
of each of those grounds.

;

9.d

after subsection (4), there were inserted—

9.d.4A

If the statement in writing referred to in subsection (4) is not included with
the notice of appeal, it must be delivered to the Secretary of State not later
than 14 days after the date on which the Secretary of State sends the person
concerned a notice requiring that person to do so.

;

9.e

in subsection (5), for “prescribed time” there were substituted  “time
specified in subsection (4A)” .

##### Modification of section 175 (appeals: supplementary provisions)

10

Section 175 applies as if—

10.a

for subsections (1), there were substituted—

10.a.1

The Town and Country Planning (Enforcement Notices and Appeals) (England)
Regulations 2002 apply to appeals under section 174 as if—

10.a.1.a

Part 2 were omitted;

10.a.1.b

regulation 9(1)(b) were omitted.

;

10.b

subsections (2) were omitted;

10.c

at the end there were inserted—

10.c.8

The following Regulations and rules apply to appeals under section 174—

10.c.8.a

the Town and Country Planning (Enforcement) (Inquiries Procedure) (England)
Rules 2002 ;

10.c.8.b

the Town and Country Planning (Enforcement) (Determination by inspectors)
(Inquiries Procedure) (England) Rules 2002 ;

10.c.8.c

the Town and Country Planning (Enforcement) (Hearings Procedure) (England)
Rules 2002 ;

10.c.8.d

the Town and Country Planning (Enforcement) (Written Representations
Procedure) (England) Regulations 2002 , but as if regulation 7(4)(b) were
omitted.

.

##### Modification of section 176 (general provisions relating to determination of appeals)

11

Section 176 applies as if—

11.a

in subsection (1), for “On an appeal” there were substituted  “Subject to
subsection (1A), on an appeal” ;

11.b

after subsection (1), there were inserted—

11.b.1A

Nothing in subsection (1) permits the Secretary of State to determine the
question of whether the appellant is eligible to be a member of the
Responsible Actors Scheme if that question has already been determined in
accordance with regulation 14 and 16 of the Building Safety (Responsible
Actors Scheme and Prohibitions) Regulations 2023.

;

11.c

in subsection (3)(a), for “prescribed time” there were substituted  “time
specified in section 174(4A)” .

##### Modification of section 177 (grant or modification of planning permission on appeals against enforcement notices)

12

Section 177 applies as if for it there were substituted—

12.177

On the determination of an appeal under section 174, the Secretary of State
may determine whether, on or before the date on which the appeal was made,
major development of land in England was being carried out in breach of the
prohibition.

.

##### Modification of section 180 (effect of planning permission, etc, on enforcement or breach of condition notice)

13

Section 180 applies as if—

13.a

for subsection (1) there were substituted—

13.a.1

Where after the service of a copy of an enforcement notice the person
undertaking development to which the notice applies ceases to be a prohibited
person within the meaning of regulation 29 of the Building Safety (Responsible
Actors Scheme and Prohibitions) Regulations 2023 (“ the 2023 Regulations ”),
the notice ceases to have effect so far as it is inconsistent with the 2023
Regulations.

;

13.b

subsection (2) were omitted;

13.c

in subsection (3), “or breach of condition notice” were omitted.

##### Modifications of section 181 (enforcement notice to have effect against subsequent development)

14

Section 181 applies as if for it there were substituted—

14.181

Compliance with any requirements in an enforcement notice does not discharge
the notice, and accordingly, any resumption of major development after they
have been discontinued in compliance with the enforcement notice will be in
contravention of the enforcement notice

.

##### Modification of section 183 (stop notices)

15

Section 183 applies as if paragraphs (5) and (5A) were omitted.

##### Modification of section 186 (compensation for loss due to stop notice)

16

Section 186 applies as if—

16.a

in subsection (1)—

16.a.i

paragraph (a) were omitted;

16.a.ii

in paragraph (b), the words “(otherwise than” to in “that paragraph)” were
omitted;

16.a.iii

in paragraph (c), the words “otherwise than in consequence” to “notice
relates” were omitted;

16.b

in subsection (3), for the words “within the prescribed time and in the
prescribed manner” there were substituted  “in accordance with regulation 12
of the Town and Country Planning General Regulations 1992 ” .

##### Modification of section 188 (Register of enforcement and stop notices)

17

Section 188 applies to enforcement action taken under these Regulations as if
the references in that section—

17.a

to planning enforcement orders included a reference to planning enforcement
orders issued under these Regulations;

17.b

to enforcement notices included a reference to enforcement notices issued
under these Regulations;

17.c

to stop notices included a reference to stop notices issued under these
Regulations.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These regulations establish the Responsible Actors Scheme (“ the scheme ”)
and the prohibitions under the Act. They identify certain developers who are
eligible to become members of the scheme, and, as a condition of membership,
require such developers to enter into and comply with a contract with the
Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities under which they
are to, among other things, remediate relevant residential buildings for which
they are responsible at their own expense and reimburse to the government
amounts paid out by government remediation funds to remediate buildings for
which they are responsible.

  Part 1 (regulations  1  to  4 ) contains introductory provisions.

  Part 2, Chapter 1 (regulations 5 to 12) establishes the scheme, sets out the
description of the persons who are eligible to become members of the scheme,
and those who may choose to become members of the scheme.

  Chapter 2 (regulations 13 to  20 ) makes provision for applications to join
the scheme and for lists to be published by the Secretary of State. The
Secretary of State is required to publish two lists: a list of the persons who
are members of the scheme, and a list of those persons who, though eligible,
are not members of the scheme, and the persons whom they control (“the
prohibitions list”) (regulation  20 ).

  Chapter 3 (regulations  21  to 23) sets out the conditions with which
members of the scheme must comply and gives the Secretary of State power to
require scheme members to produce certain information.

  Chapter 4 (regulations 24 to 27) makes provision for the revocation of a
member’s membership of the scheme and for a member’s membership to end where
the member has fulfilled its obligations under the scheme.

  Part 3 (regulations  28  to 42), with the Schedule to the regulations, set
out the consequences which apply to those persons who are included on the
prohibitions list. They are prohibited from carrying out major development in
England (regulation  29 ), except for development for which planning
permission has been granted before the regulations come into force (regulation
32 ). They are required to notify the relevant local authority of certain
circumstances (regulation  30 ). Persons on the prohibitions list are also
subject to the building control prohibitions set out in regulation  33 . The
effect of things done in contravention of the building control prohibitions
(regulation 39) and the effect of the prohibitions on the validity of
documents given or accepted in relation to building control before a person
was prohibited is set out (regulation 40). Regulation 41 and the Schedule to
the regulations modify Part 7 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 to
take account of the prohibition on development provided for in these
regulations. The prohibitions are subject to certain exceptions (regulations
31, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38 and 42).

  Part 4 contains a review clause (regulation 43).

  A copy of the International Accounting Standard 28 Investments in Associates
and Joint Ventures the Financial Reporting Standard 102 and the Self
Remediation Terms, which are referred to in these regulations, are available
for inspection during office hours at the Department for Levelling Up, Housing
and Communities Environment, 2 Marsham Street, London, SW1P 4DF. The Self
Remediation Terms are also available at
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/developer-remediation-contract .

  A full impact assessment of the effect that this instrument will have on the
costs of business, the voluntary sector and the public sector is available
from  www.legislation.gov.uk  and from the Department for Levelling Up,
Housing and Communities, 2 Marsham Street, London, SW1P 4DF.

