Title: The Higher-Risk Buildings (Descriptions and Supplementary Provisions) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations determine which buildings will be subject to the new more stringent safety regime established by the Building Safety Act 2022 (“the 2022 Act”). They do so by supplementing and completing the definitions of “higher-risk building” at section 120D of the Building Act 1984 (“the 1984 Act”) (inserted by section 31 of the 2022 Act) and section 65 of the 2022 Act. The 1984 Act makes provision about the design of, and building work carried out in respect of, “higher-risk buildings”. The 2022 Act makes provision about safety management in occupied “higher-risk buildings”.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/275

## The Higher-Risk Buildings (Descriptions and Supplementary Provisions) Regulations 2023

    Building And Buildings, England

  Made   6th March 2023

  Coming into force   6th April 2023

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 120A(2) and (3) and 120D(2), (3) and (4) of the Building
Act 1984 (“ the 1984 Act ”) , and sections 65(2) and (3) and 168(2) and (3) of
the Building Safety Act 2022 (“ the 2022 Act ”) .       In accordance with
section 120E(1)  of the 1984 Act and section 66(1) of the 2022 Act, the
Secretary of State has consulted the Health and Safety Executive  and such
persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.       In accordance
with section 120F(2)  of the 1984 Act the Secretary of State has asked the
Health and Safety Executive for advice under section 120H(1)  of that Act and
in accordance with section 67(2) of the 2022 Act the Secretary of State has
asked the Health and Safety Executive for advice under section 70(1) of that
Act.       In accordance with section 120F(3) of the 1984 Act and section
67(3) of the 2022 Act the Secretary of State has carried out a cost-benefit
analysis and published it .           In accordance with section 120A(7)(b) of
the 1984 Act and section 168(6)(b) of the 2022 Act, a draft of this instrument
has been laid before Parliament and approved by a resolution of each House of
Parliament.

### Citation, commencement, extent and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Higher-Risk Buildings (Descriptions and
Supplementary Provisions) Regulations 2023 and come into force on 6th April
2023.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales.

1.3

In these Regulations—

“ the 1984 Act ” means the Building Act 1984; “ the 2022 Act ” means the
Building Safety Act 2022; “ building ” has the meaning given in regulation 4;
“ care home ” means a care home within the meaning of section 3 of the Care
Standards Act 2000 ; “ ground level ”, in relation to a building, means— where
the level of the surface of the ground on which the building is situated is
uniform, the level of the surface of the ground immediately adjacent to the
building; or where the level of the surface of the ground on which the
building is situated is not uniform, the level of the lowest part of the
surface of the ground adjacent to the building; “ His Majesty’s forces ” has
the same meaning as in the Armed Forces Act 2006 ; “ hospital ” means a
building which— is a hospital within the meaning of section 275 of the
National Health Service Act 2006 , and has at least one bed intended for use
by a person admitted to the premises for an overnight stay; “ residential unit
” means— a dwelling, or any other unit of living accommodation; “ secure
residential institution ” means an institution used for the provision of
secure residential accommodation, including as a prison, young offenders
institution, detention centre, secure training centre, custody centre, short
term holding centre or secure local authority accommodation; “ structure ”
means a roofed construction with walls; “ visiting force ” has the same
meaning as it does for the purposes of any provision of Part 1 of the Visiting
Forces Act 1952 .

### Specified descriptions of building under section 120D of the Building Act 1984

2

The following descriptions of building are specified for the purposes of
section 120D(2)(b) of the 1984 Act—

2.a

a building which contains at least two residential units;

2.b

a care home;

2.c

a hospital.

### Application of regulations 4, 5 and 6

3

Regulations 4, 5 and 6 apply for the purposes of section 120D of the 1984 Act
and section 65 of the 2022 Act.

### Meaning of “building”

4

4.1

Subject to paragraph (2), where a structure is not attached to any other
structure, that structure is a “building”.

4.2

Subject to paragraph (5), where a structure that is not attached to any other
structure contains one or more independent sections, each independent section
is a “building”.

4.3

Subject to paragraph (4), where two or more structures are attached, that set
of structures are a “building”.

4.4

Subject to paragraph (5), where two or more structures that are attached
contains one or more independent sections, each independent section is a
“building”.

4.5

Paragraphs (2) and (4) do not apply while a building is being constructed or
proposed to be constructed.

4.6

An “independent section” is a section that—

4.6.a

has access, which can be reached from anywhere in the section, for persons to
enter and exit the wider building; and

4.6.b

either—

4.6.b.i

has no access to any other section of the wider building; or

4.6.b.ii

only has access to another section of the wider building which does not
contain a residential unit.

4.7

“ Access ” means a doorway, archway or similar opening but does not include a
doorway, archway or similar opening intended for exceptional use including
emergency use or use for the purpose of maintenance.

4.8

The “ wider building ” means—

4.8.a

in relation to a section of a structure that is not attached to any other
structure, that structure;

4.8.b

in relation to a section within two or more structures that are attached, that
set of structures.

4.9

Where a section is a “building” pursuant to paragraphs (2) or (4), any plant
room containing equipment for the provision of services to that section is to
be considered as part of that building.

4.10

The rule in paragraph (9) does not apply to the reference to “building” in
sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii) of section 73(1) of the 2022 Act and in section
73(2) of that Act.

### Determining height of a building

5

5.1

Subject to paragraph (2), the height of a building is to be measured from
ground level to the top of the floor surface of the top storey of the building
(ignoring any storey which is a roof-top machinery or roof-top plant area or
consists exclusively of roof-top machinery or roof-top plant rooms).

5.2

Where the top storey is not directly above the lowest part of the surface of
the ground adjacent to the building, the height of the building is to be
measured vertically from the lowest part of the surface of the ground adjacent
to the building to the point which is a horizontal projection from the top of
the floor surface of the top storey of the building (ignoring any storey which
is a roof-top machinery or roof-top plant area or consists exclusively of
roof-top machinery or roof-top plant rooms).

### Storeys

6

6.1

Subject to paragraph (2), when determining the number of storeys a building
has the following is to be ignored—

6.1.a

any storey which is below ground level;

6.1.b

any storey which is a roof-top machinery or roof-top plant area or consists
exclusively of roof-top machinery or roof-top plant rooms; and

6.1.c

any storey consisting of a gallery with an internal floor area that is less
than 50% of the internal floor area of the largest storey vertically above or
below it which is not below ground level.

6.2

Where a section is a building pursuant to regulation 4(2) or (4), any storey
directly beneath the building which is not below ground level is to be counted
in determining the number of storeys the building has.

6.3

A storey is treated as below ground level if any part of the finished surface
of the ceiling of the storey is below the ground level immediately adjacent to
that part of the building.

### Exclusions from the definition of “higher-risk building”

7

7.1

For the purposes of section 120D of the 1984 Act a “ higher-risk building ”
does not include a building of a description specified in paragraph (2).

7.2

The following descriptions of building are specified for the purposes of
paragraph (1)—

7.2.a

a building that consists entirely of—

7.2.a.i

a secure residential institution;

7.2.a.ii

a hotel;

7.2.a.iii

military barracks;

7.2.a.iv

living accommodation provided by the Ministry of Defence;

7.2.a.v

living accommodation for—

7.2.a.v.aa

His Majesty’s forces;

7.2.a.v.bb

any visiting force or international headquarters or defence organisation
designated for the purpose of the International Headquarters and Defence
Organisations Act 1964;

7.2.b

a building, that is used for residential and non-residential purposes, in
which all the living accommodation is provided by the Ministry of Defence.

8

8.1

For the purposes of section 65 of the 2022 Act a “ higher-risk building ” does
not include a building of a description specified in paragraph (2).

8.2

The following descriptions of building are specified for the purposes of
paragraph (1)—

8.2.a

a building that consists entirely of—

8.2.a.i

a care home;

8.2.a.ii

a hospital;

8.2.a.iii

a secure residential institution;

8.2.a.iv

a hotel;

8.2.a.v

military barracks;

8.2.a.vi

living accommodation provided by the Ministry of Defence;

8.2.a.vii

living accommodation for—

8.2.a.vii.aa

His Majesty’s forces;

8.2.a.vii.bb

any visiting force or international headquarters or defence organisation
designated for the purpose of the International Headquarters and Defence
Organisations Act 1964;

8.2.b

a building, that is used for residential and non-residential purposes, in
which all the living accommodation is provided by the Ministry of Defence.

Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and
Communities Lee Rowley Parliamentary Under Secretary of State Department for
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities 6th March 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations determine which buildings will be subject to the new more
stringent safety regime established by the Building Safety Act 2022 (“ the
2022 Act ”). They do so by supplementing and completing the definitions of
“higher-risk building” at section 120D of the Building Act 1984 (“ the 1984
Act ”) (inserted by section 31 of the 2022 Act) and section 65 of the 2022
Act. The 1984 Act makes provision about the design of, and building work
carried out in respect of, “higher-risk buildings”. The 2022 Act makes
provision about safety management in occupied “higher-risk buildings”.

  Regulation 2 specifies descriptions of building considered “higher-risk
buildings” for the purpose of section 120D of the 1984 Act.

  Regulation 4 defines “building”. It sets out the circumstances in which
structures that are joined will be considered one “building” and also the
circumstances in which a section of a wider structure or set of structures
will be considered a “building” for the purpose of the new regime.

  Regulations 5 and 6 set out how the height and number of storeys of a
building is to be determined.

  Regulations 7 and 8 exclude certain types of building from the definition of
a “higher-risk building”. The same types of building are excluded for both
parts of the new regime apart from care homes and hospitals which are excluded
from the definition of “higher-risk building” in the 2022 Act but not in the
1984 Act.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary sector or community bodies is
foreseen.

