Title: The Building Safety (Registration of Higher-Risk Buildings and Review of Decisions) (England) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-04-19
Description: These Regulations make provision about the register of higher-risk buildings held by the building safety regulator (“the regulator”). These Regulations make provision about making an application for registration of a higher-risk building including the associated fee and withdrawing that application. They also set out further provisions about decisions of the regulator that may be subject to a review under section 25 of the Building Safety Act 2022 (“the 2022 Act”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/315

## The Building Safety (Registration of Higher-Risk Buildings and Review of Decisions) (England) Regulations 2023

    Building And Buildings, England

  Made   9th March 2023

  Laid before Parliament   14th March 2023

  Coming into force   6th April 2023

      The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 25(1) to (3) and (7), 28(1), (2) and (4),
78(4) and (5), and 168(2) and (4) of the Building Safety Act 2022 .       In
accordance with section 7(4) of the Building Safety Act 2022, the Secretary of
State has consulted the regulator  and such other persons as the Secretary of
State considers appropriate.           No consultation by the Secretary of
State is required in relation to regulations 20 and 21 of these Regulations
because the regulator made proposals for them to the Secretary of State, under
section 7(2) of the Building Safety Act 2022.

### General

#### Citation, commencement, extent, application and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Building Safety (Registration of Higher-
Risk Buildings and Review of Decisions) (England) Regulations 2023 and come
into force on 6th April 2023.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales and apply to England only.

1.3

In these Regulations—

“ the 2022 Act ” means the Building Safety Act 2022; “ AP ” means accountable
person ;   “ building certificate ” means a completion certificate or, as the
case may be, a final certificate in relation to a building;   “ building
control body ” means— where the certificate is a completion certificate, the
building control authority for the building; where the certificate is a final
certificate, the approved inspector   or, as the case may be, registered
building control approver  who gave the initial notice to which the final
certificate relates;   “ change of use ” has the same meaning as in The Town
and Country Planning (Use Classes) Order 1987 ; “ completed ” in relation to a
building means— in the case of a newly built higher-risk building , when the
construction of that building is completed; in the case of a building which
was not a higher-risk building when built and which becomes a higher-risk
building following a change of use, when the change of use occurs that causes
that building to become a higher-risk building; in the case of a building
which was not a higher-risk building when built and which becomes a higher-
risk building following works which cause it to become a higher-risk building,
when those works are completed; “ completion certificate ” means— a
certificate issued in accordance with regulation 17 (completion certificates)
of the Building Regulations 2010 ,   a certificate issued in accordance with
regulation 44 (completion certificate applications: decisions) of the Building
(Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England) Regulations 2023; where paragraph
5, 10 or 11 of Schedule 3 to the Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures)
(England) Regulations 2023 applies in relation to a building, a transfer and
completion certificate provided for by virtue of modifications set out in
paragraph 5(9), 10(4), or, as the case may be, 11(4) of Schedule 3 to those
Regulations;   a certificate issued in accordance with the equivalent
provision of earlier regulations made under section 1 of the Building Act 1984
or section 4 of the Public Health Act 1961 , or a certificate issued under an
equivalent provision of byelaws made under section 61 of the Public Health Act
1936 ; “ final certificate ” has the same meaning as in section 51 of the
Building Act 1984 ; “ leaseholder ” means a tenant under a lease of a dwelling
in a building; “ PAP ” means principal accountable person ; “ the register ”
means the register of higher-risk buildings ; “ registration information ”
means the information described in regulations 11 to 17, 18(1)(a) to (c) and
(2) and 19; “ relevant day ” means any day other than Christmas Day, Good
Friday or a day which is a bank holiday under the Banking and Financial
Dealings Act 1971 in England and Wales ; “ start date ” means the day on which
section 32 of the 2022 Act (building control authorities) comes into force in
relation to England, ignoring any commencement of that section for the purpose
only of making regulations; “ transitional building ” means a higher-risk
building in relation to which section 91ZA(1) of the Building Act 1984  does
not apply (by virtue of regulations made under paragraph 10 of Schedule 1 to
the Building Act 1984) on the day the application for registration of that
building is submitted.

#### Direction to be made by regulator

2

2.1

The regulator  may make a direction as to the way in which any of the
following must be given to it—

2.1.a

information with regard to a change to registration information or copy
certificate in accordance with regulation 4;

2.1.b

a request made in accordance with regulation 7 to remove a building from the
register;

2.1.c

an application under section 78(1) of the 2022 Act to register a higher-risk
building;

2.1.d

a request made in accordance with regulation 22 to withdraw an application for
registration;

2.1.e

a notice given in accordance with regulation 23 to review a decision by the
regulator.

2.2

The direction may include a requirement to give the information via a website
address provided for that purpose by the regulator.

2.3

The regulator must publish any direction under this regulation on its website
and make it available for inspection at its principal offices during normal
office hours.

2.4

The regulator may, by a further direction, amend or revoke a direction made
under this regulation.

### The Register of Higher-Risk Buildings

#### Content

3

The register must contain the following information in relation to each
higher-risk building on the register—

3.a

the registration information,

3.b

any copy certificate required in regulation 18(1)(d),

3.c

the date of issue of any building assessment certificate , and

3.d

where applicable, the date that any special measures order  is made or
discharged.

#### Updating information

4

The PAP must provide to the regulator, within the period of 14 relevant days
beginning with the day that the PAP becomes aware of a change—

4.a

any change to the registration information provided to the regulator,

4.b

any copy certificate required in regulation 18(1)(d)  ..., where a certificate
becomes available that is more recent than the one provided to the regulator.

5

The regulator must update the register, as it considers necessary, within the
period of 14 relevant days beginning with the relevant day that—

5.a

the regulator receives information or   a  copy certificate pursuant   to
regulation 4;

5.b

the regulator gives a building assessment certificate;

5.c

the regulator receives any information pursuant to regulations made under
section 90(4) (provision of information etc on change in accountable person)
of the 2022 Act;

5.d

a special measures order is made or discharged.

#### Circumstances for removing a building entry

6

The regulator may remove a higher-risk building from the register where—

6.a

a PAP makes a written request to the regulator in accordance with regulation
7, or

6.b

there is no request, on the regulator’s own initiative.

#### Request of PAP to remove a building entry

7

7.1

Where a PAP for a building considers that the building is or will not be
occupied or the building is or will not be a higher-risk building, the PAP
must make a request to the regulator to remove the building from the register.

7.2

With regard to any request that the PAP makes in accordance with paragraph (1)
the PAP must include—

7.2.a

their name, address and contact details,

7.2.b

an explanation of why the PAP considers that the building is not or will not
be occupied or the building is or will not be a higher-risk building, and

7.2.c

where there is more than one AP for the building, a declaration confirming
that all other APs for the building have been sent a copy of the request .

#### Notice of removal of building entry

8

8.1

Where the regulator makes a decision to remove a building from the register,
or to refuse a request to remove a building from the register (“a removal
decision”), the regulator must give a notice of the removal decision to all
the APs for the building.

8.2

A notice under paragraph (1) may be in electronic form and must—

8.2.a

be in writing,

8.2.b

give a summary of the reasons for the removal  decision , and

8.2.c

inform the recipient of the notice of the right to a review of and appeal
against the removal decision .

8.3

A notice under paragraph (2) must be served as soon as reasonably practicable
after a removal decision is made, and in any event before effecting any
removal.

#### Duty-holders

9

9.1

In relation to regulations 6 and 7, “ PAP ” includes a person who would be a
PAP for the building if the building were a higher-risk building.

9.2

In relation to regulation 8  ..., “ AP ” includes a person who would be an AP
for the building if the building were a higher-risk building.

### Applications for Registration

#### Applications for registration

10

An application to register a higher-risk building must—

10.a

contain the information set out in regulations 11 to 17, 18(1)(a) to (c) and
(2), and 19,

10.b

be accompanied by any document required by regulation 18(1)(d).

#### AP details where there is one AP for the building

11

Where there is only one AP for the building, the details relating to the AP of
the building as follows—

11.a

their name;

11.b

an address in England and Wales at which notices (including notices in
proceedings) may be served on them;

11.c

their email address;

11.d

their telephone number.

#### AP details where there is more than one AP for the building

12

Where there is more than one AP for the building—

12.a

confirmation of who is the PAP,

12.b

details for which part of the building each AP is responsible , and

12.c

the details relating to each AP of the building as follows—

12.c.i

their name;

12.c.ii

an address in England and Wales at which notices (including notices in
proceedings) may be served on them;

12.c.iii

their email address;

12.c.iv

their telephone number.

#### PAP organisation type

13

13.1

For a PAP that is not an individual, whether the PAP is—

13.1.a

a local authority within the meaning set out in section 1 of the Local
Government Act 2000 ,

13.1.b

a private registered provider of social housing ,

13.1.c

a registered provider of social housing ,

13.1.d

a commonhold association as defined by section 1 of the Commonhold and
Leasehold Reform Act 2002 ,

13.1.e

a resident management company,

13.1.f

a right to manage company as defined by section 73  of the Commonhold and
Leasehold Reform Act 2002, or

13.1.g

where the PAP is not an authority or body of a type listed in sub-paragraphs
(a) to (f), details of the type of organisation that it is.

13.2

For the purpose of this regulation, “ resident management company ” means a
body corporate which is party to a lease of a building where—

13.2.a

the body corporate is limited by guarantee and the members of that body are
leaseholders , or

13.2.b

the majority of the shares of the body corporate are held by leaseholders.

#### Details of person making application on behalf of PAP

14

If the PAP authorises a person to make the registration application on their
behalf—

14.a

confirmation from that person that they are authorised by that PAP, to act on
that PAP’s behalf, and

14.b

the name and address of that person.

#### Details of single point of contact

15

If the PAP or person making the application on behalf of the PAP is not an
individual, the name and address of the individual who will act as a single
point of contact for the PAP for the purposes of the registration application.

#### Description of building

16

With regard to the higher-risk building—

16.a

the address, postcode and, if applicable, name of the building,

16.b

the number of residential units  it contains,

16.c

the height, in metres, of the building as determined in accordance with
regulations made under section 65(2) of the 2022 Act,

16.d

the number of storeys on or above ground level as determined in accordance
with regulations made under section 65(2) of the 2022 Act, and

16.e

the year in which the building was completed.

#### Building control: for a building completed before start date

17

17.1

In relation to a building which was completed before the start date—

17.1.a

the date of the building certificate for the completed building,

17.1.b

the reference number of the certificate, and

17.1.c

the name of the building control body who gave the certificate.

17.2

Where the PAP does not hold any of the information in a paragraph (1) they
must provide an explanation to the regulator setting out the steps that the
PAP has taken to obtain the information.

#### Building control: for a building completed on or after start date and a transitional building

18

18.1

In relation to a building which was completed on or after the start date and
is a transitional building—

18.1.a

the date of the building certificate issued in relation to the building,

18.1.b

the reference number of the certificate,

18.1.c

the name of the building control body who gave certificate, and

18.1.d

a copy of the certificate.

18.2

It is sufficient to provide the most recent building certificate where more
than one building certificate has been issued for the same part of the
building.

#### Building control: for a building completed on or after start date and not a transitional building

19

In relation to a building which was completed on or after the start date but
is not a transitional building—

19.a

the reference number for the building, issued by the regulator, and

19.b

the date that the building certificate was issued.

#### Prescribed fee

20

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Effect of failure to pay fee

21

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Withdrawing an application

22

22.1

The circumstance in which an application for registration of a higher-risk
building may be withdrawn is where—

22.1.a

the PAP makes a request to the regulator to withdraw the application regarding
the building for which they are the PAP, and

22.1.b

that request is made in writing and sets out the reason for the request.

22.2

In this regulation the PAP includes the person who would be the PAP if the
building were a higher-risk building.

### Review of Decisions of the Regulator

#### Regulator decision: review

23

23.1

The following decisions of the regulator are prescribed for the purposes of
section 25(1)  of the 2022 Act—

23.1.a

a decision not to register a higher-risk building further to an application;

23.1.b

a decision to remove a building from the register ;

23.1.c

a decision to refuse   a request  to remove a building from the register;

23.1.d

a decision to refuse an application for a building assessment certificate ;

23.1.e

a decision to give a direction for assessment of building safety risks
pursuant to section 83(2)(c) of the 2022 Act.

23.2

The persons prescribed for the purposes of section 25(2) of the 2022 Act are—

23.2.a

in relation to a decision   of the regulator mentioned in   paragraph (1)(a),
(b), (d) or (e) an affected person within the meaning in section 104(4) of the
2022 Act;

23.2.b

in relation to a decision   of the regulator mentioned in   paragraph (1)(c),
an AP for the higher-risk building (or person who would be an AP for the
building if the building were a higher-risk building).

23.3

The prescribed period   for the purposes of section 25(2) of the 2022 Act  for
giving a notice to the regulator is within 21 relevant days beginning with the
day on which the decision is made.

23.4

The prescribed information   for the purposes of section 25(3)(a) of the 2022
Act  to be contained in a notice (“ the notice ”) is—

23.4.a

details for the person giving the notice as follows—

23.4.a.i

their name;

23.4.a.ii

an address in England and Wales at which notices (including notices in
proceedings) may be served on them;

23.4.a.iii

their email address;

23.4.a.iv

their telephone number;

23.4.b

the name and address of any person authorised to give the notice on behalf of
a person set out at paragraph (3);

23.4.c

the address, postcode, and if applicable, the name of the building to which
the relevant decision relates;

23.4.d

a summary of the review being sought that—

23.4.d.i

identifies the decision for review, and

23.4.d.ii

sets out the reason for the review;

23.4.e

any new information that is available to the person giving the notice, that
may have been relevant to the regulator’s original decision and was not
available at the time the original decision was made;

23.4.f

confirmation that any other AP for the same building to which the decision
relates has been given a copy of the notice.

23.5

The period prescribed for the purposes of section 25(7) of the 2022 Act, is
within 28 relevant days beginning with the day that the regulator receives the
notice.

Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and
Communities Lee Rowley Parliamentary Under Secretary of State Department for
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities 9th March 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision about the register of higher-risk buildings
held by the building safety regulator (“the regulator”). These Regulations
make provision about making an application for registration of a higher-risk
building including the associated fee and withdrawing that application. They
also set out further provisions about decisions of the regulator that may be
subject to a review under section 25 of the Building Safety Act 2022 (“ the
2022 Act ”).

  Regulation 2 in Part 1 sets out how a direction by the regulator may
determine how information is given to the regulator with respect to making or
withdrawing a registration application, provision of information updating the
register, requesting to remove a higher-risk building from the register or
requiring the regulator to carry out a review of its own decision. The
direction may require information to be submitted electronically and may be
revoked and amended.

  Part 2 of the Regulations makes provision about the register of higher-risk
buildings. Regulation 3 makes provision for the content of the regulator’s
register of higher-risk buildings. Regulations 4 and 5 set out the
requirements on the principal accountable person (“ PAP ”) and regulator in
relation to keeping that register up to date. Regulations 6 to 8 set out the
procedure for removing a building entry from the register.

  Part 3 of the Regulations makes provision about the application for
registration of a higher-risk building. Regulations 10 to 17, 18(1)(a) to (c)
and (2) and 19 set out the ‘registration information’ to be contained in the
application and regulation 18(1)(d) sets out any copy certificate that must
accompany an application. The registration information requirements include
details about contact information for each accountable person (“ AP ”) for
that building, a description of the building, and information in relation to
building control approvals for that building.

  Regulations 20 and 21 make provision for the regulator to charge a
registration fee to the PAP at the time the application for registration is
made, otherwise the regulator will not register the higher-risk building.
Regulation 20 also provides that any refund of the registration fee upon a
withdrawal of application, will be at the regulator’s discretion.

  Regulation 22 provides for the circumstance in which a registration
application may be withdrawn and the procedure for requesting a withdrawal.

  In Part 4, regulation 23 supplements section 25 of the 2022 Act. It sets
out, among other things, which regulator decisions may be the subject of a
review, the persons who can give notice to the regulator requiring the review,
the period of time in which the person must send that notice and by when the
regulator must notify the outcome of the review. It also sets out what must be
contained in the notice sent to the regulator requesting the review.

  A full impact assessment of the effect that this instrument will have on the
costs to business and is published with an Explanatory Memorandum alongside
the instrument on  www.legislation.gov.uk .

