Title: The Non-Domestic Rating (Designated Areas) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-11-21
Description: These Regulations designate areas in England (“designated areas”) for the purpose of paragraph 39(1) of Schedule 7B to the Local Government Finance Act 1988 (“the 1988 Act”) (local retention of non-domestic rates). They provide rules for calculating in respect of a billing authority in England all or part of whose area falls within a designated area—the billing authority’s non-domestic rating income in respect of the designated area for a specified year; andthe proportion of that non-domestic rating income that is to be disregarded for the purpose of specified calculations under Schedule 7B to the 1988 Act.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/175

## The Non-Domestic Rating (Designated Areas) Regulations 2023

    Rating And Valuation, England

  Made   20th February 2023

  Laid before Parliament   22nd February 2023

  Coming into force   1st April 2023

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by section 143(1) of, and paragraph 39 of Schedule 7B to, the Local
Government Finance Act 1988  (“ the 1988 Act ”).           These Regulations
are made with the consent of the Treasury in accordance with paragraph 39(13)
of Schedule 7B to the 1988 Act.

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Non-Domestic Rating (Designated Areas)
Regulations 2023.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 1st April 2023 and extend to England and
Wales.

### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

      “ the 1988 Act ” means the Local Government Finance Act 1988;
“ baseline amount ”, in relation to a billing authority, means the amount
calculated under Part 3 of Schedule 2 in respect of a designated area for a
specified year;           “ billing authority ” means a billing authority in
England, part of whose area falls within a designated area;           “
designated area ” means an area designated under regulation 3(1);           “
local list ” means a local non-domestic rating list ;           “ non-domestic
rating income ”, in relation to a billing authority, means the amount
calculated under Part 2 of Schedule 2 in respect of a designated area for a
specified year;           “ preceding year ” means the chargeable financial
year  immediately preceding the specified year for which a calculation under
Part 3 of Schedule 2 is made;           “ revaluation year ” means a year in
which a local list must be compiled under section 41 of the 1988 Act;
“ Schedule 7B ” means Schedule 7B to the 1988 Act;           “ small business
non-domestic rating multiplier ”, in relation to a chargeable financial year,
means the small business non-domestic rating multiplier for that year
determined under Part 1 of Schedule 7 to the 1988 Act ;           “ specified
year ” means, in relation to a designated area, a chargeable financial year
falling within the period of years specified in relation to that area in
regulation 3(2).

### Designation of areas

3

3.1

The areas listed in Schedule 1 are designated for the purposes of these
Regulations.

3.2

The designations take effect on 1st April 2023 for the period of 25 years
beginning with that date.

### Proportion of non-domestic rating income for a designated area to be disregarded

4

4.1

Part 1 of Schedule 2 provides rules for calculating the proportion of a
billing authority’s non-domestic rating income in respect of a designated area
for a specified year.

4.2

The proportion is to be disregarded for the purpose of calculations under—

4.2.a

any of the following provisions of Schedule 7B—

4.2.a.i

paragraph 6 (payments to the Secretary of State in respect of the central
share);

4.2.a.ii

paragraph 13 (calculations following local government finance report);

4.2.a.iii

paragraph 16 (calculations following amending report);

4.2.a.iv

paragraph 23 (calculation of levy payments) ;

4.2.a.v

paragraph 26 (calculations of safety net payments) ;

4.2.a.vi

paragraph 30 (distribution of remaining balance) ;

4.2.b

regulations made under any of the following provisions of Schedule 7B—

4.2.b.i

paragraph 7 (administrative arrangements for payments in respect of the
central share);

4.2.b.ii

paragraph 9 (payments by billing authorities to major precepting authorities);

4.2.b.iii

paragraph 10 (administrative arrangements for payments by billing authorities
to major precepting authorities);

4.2.b.iv

paragraph 28 (regulations about payments on account).

      We consent to the making of these Regulations       Scott Mann   Steve
Double   Two of the Lords Commissioners of His Majesty’s Treasury     20th
February 2023             Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities       Lee Rowley   Parliamentary Under
Secretary of State   Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities
20th February 2023

  Local retention of non-domestic rates: designation of areas

Regulation 3

1

Each of the areas listed in column 2 of the table in this Schedule is
designated by reference to the area or areas bounded externally by the outer
edge of the red line shown on the map specified in column 1 of the table.

2

A reference in this Schedule to a map is to one of the maps numbered 1 to 21
and entitled “Maps referred to in Schedule 1 to the Non-Domestic Rating
(Designated Areas) Regulations 2023” of which prints, signed by a member of
the Senior Civil Service in the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and
Communities, are deposited and available for inspection at the offices of the
Secretary of State for   Housing, Communities and Local Government   and, in
relation to each map, at the offices of the billing authority to which the map
relates as specified in column 3 of the table in this Schedule.

3

For the purposes of determining a designated area—

3.a

subject to sub-paragraph (b), where part only of a hereditament is situated
within an area shown on a map, the whole of the hereditament is taken to be
included within that designated area;

3.b

the whole of the following hereditaments are taken to be excluded from that
designated area—

3.b.i

the hereditament owned on 1st January 2023 by Uniper UK Limited (company
number 02796628)  , situated in the area of Rushcliffe Borough Council and
known as Ratcliffe-on-Soar Power Station;

3.b.ii

the hereditament owned on 1st January 2023 by East Midlands International
Airport Limited (company number 02078271) , situated in the area of North West
Leicestershire District Council and known as East Midlands International
Airport.

      Numbered map (Column 1) Designated area (Column 2) Billing authority
(Column 3) Value of K (£) (see paragraph 5 of Schedule 2) (Column 4)   1
Teesworks East Redcar and Cleveland Borough Council 0 2 Teesworks West Redcar
and Cleveland Borough Council 0 3 Wilton International Redcar and Cleveland
Borough Council 0 4 Harwich Tendring District Council 841,447 5 Gateway 14
Mid-Suffolk District Council 0 6 Felixstowe East Suffolk Council 774,808 7
Wirral Waters Wirral Metropolitan Borough Council 988,702 8 3MG Halton Borough
Council 0 9 Parkside St Helens Borough Council 0 10 Southampton Water – Fawley
Complex New Forest District Council 608,052 11 Southampton Water – Fawley
Waterside New Forest District Council 470,641 12 Southampton Water-Marchwood
Port & Strategic Land Reserve New Forest District Council 1,116,160 13
Southampton Water –Redbridge Southampton City Council 542,114 14 Navigator
Quarter Eastleigh Borough Council 0 15 Dunsbury Park Havant Borough Council
2,396,500 16 East Midlands Gateway and Industrial Cluster North West
Leicestershire District Council 887,438 17 Ratcliffe on Soar Rushcliffe
Borough Council 0 18 East Midlands Intermodal Park (EMIP) South Derbyshire
District Council 21,457 19 South Yard Plymouth City Council 0 20 Langage South
Hams District Council 0 21 Sherford South Hams District Council 0

  Calculations for designated areas

Regulations 2 and 4

##### Proportion of non-domestic rating income to be disregarded

1

1.1

Unless sub-paragraph (2) applies, the proportion of a billing authority’s non-
domestic rating income in respect of a designated area for a specified year is
the difference between the authority’s—

1.1.a

non-domestic rating income in respect of the designated area for that year,
and

1.1.b

baseline amount in respect of the designated area for that year.

1.2

If the baseline amount is greater than or equal to the non-domestic rating
income, the proportion is zero.

##### Calculation of non-domestic rating income

2

2.1

A billing authority’s non-domestic rating income in respect of a designated
area for a specified year is the amount calculated in accordance with the
formula—

        A - B ± C - D - E ± F ± G - H               where—         A is the
total of the amounts credited to the authority’s collection fund income and
expenditure account in that year in accordance with proper practices  in
respect of non-domestic rates payable under sections 43 and 45 of the 1988 Act
in respect of hereditaments situated in the designated area;           B is
the total of the amounts charged to the authority’s collection fund income and
expenditure account in that year in accordance with proper practices in
respect of non-domestic rates payable under sections 43 and 45 of the 1988 Act
in respect of hereditaments situated in the designated area;           C is
the amount of any transitional protection payments under paragraph 33(1) of
Schedule 7B made to the authority in that year in respect of hereditaments
situated in the designated area;           D is the amount of any transitional
protection payments under paragraph 33(1) of Schedule 7B made by the authority
in that year in respect of hereditaments situated in the designated area;
E is the total of the amounts credited to the authority’s collection fund
income and expenditure account in that year in accordance with proper
practices in respect of non-domestic rates payable under sections 43 and 45 of
the 1988 Act in respect of hereditaments situated in the designated area to
which sub-paragraph (2) applies;           F is the total of the amounts
charged to the authority’s collection fund income and expenditure account in
that year in accordance with proper practices in respect of non-domestic rates
payable under sections 43 and 45 of the 1988 Act in respect of hereditaments
situated in the designated area to which sub-paragraph (2) applies;
G is the amount of transitional protection payments under paragraph 33(1) of
Schedule 7B made by the authority in that year in respect of hereditaments
situated in the designated area to which sub-paragraph (2) applies;
H is the amount of transitional protection payments under paragraph 33(1) of
Schedule 7B made to the authority in that year in respect of hereditaments
situated in the designated area to which sub-paragraph (2) applies.

2.2

This sub-paragraph applies to a hereditament which—

2.2.a

is to be treated as one hereditament by virtue of regulations made under
section 64(3)(b) of the 1988 Act, and

2.2.b

would have constituted three or more separate hereditaments had regulations
under section 64(3)(b) not been made.

2.3

In this paragraph, references to an authority’s collection fund income and
expenditure account are a reference to a revenue account to which, in
accordance with proper practices, amounts are credited or charged in respect
of the authority’s income or expenditure relating to sums paid or to be paid
into or payments met or to be met from the authority’s collection fund.

##### Calculation of the baseline amount

###### For a specified year that is a revaluation year

3

3.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), if a specified year is a revaluation year a
billing authority’s baseline amount in respect of a designated area for the
specified year is the amount calculated in accordance with the formula—

        J × L × N 2 M × N 1

3.2

For the specified year beginning with 1st April 2023, a billing authority’s
baseline amount is calculated in accordance with the formula—

        K × L × N 2 M × N 1

###### For a specified year that is not a revaluation year

4

If a specified year is not a revaluation year, a billing authority’s baseline
amount in respect of a designated area for the specified year is the amount
calculated in accordance with the formula—

        J × N 2 N 1

###### Interpretation of Part 3

5

5.1

In this Part—

      J is the baseline amount calculated for the preceding year;           K
is the amount provided in column 4 of the table in Schedule 1 in relation to
the designated area;           L is the aggregate rateable values shown in the
billing authority’s local list for 1st April in the specified year for the
hereditaments, other than those hereditaments to which paragraph 2(2) applies,
falling within the designated area;           M is the aggregate rateable
values shown in the billing authority’s local list for 31st March in the
preceding year for the hereditaments, other than those hereditaments to which
paragraph 2(2) applies, falling within the designated area;           N 1  is
the small business non-domestic rating multiplier for the preceding year;
N 2  is the small business non-domestic rating multiplier for the specified
year.

5.2

For the purposes of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the rateable value of a
hereditament shown in the billing authority’s local list for 31st March in the
preceding year is taken to be the rateable value that would have been shown in
that list for that day had the circumstances relating to that hereditament
been as they were on 1st April in the specified year.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations designate areas in England (“designated areas”) for the
purpose of paragraph 39(1) of Schedule 7B to the Local Government Finance Act
1988 (“ the 1988 Act ”) (local retention of non-domestic rates). They provide
rules for calculating in respect of a billing authority in England all or part
of whose area falls within a designated area—     a     the billing
authority’s non-domestic rating income in respect of the designated area for a
specified year; and         b     the proportion of that non-domestic rating
income that is to be disregarded for the purpose of specified calculations
under Schedule 7B to the 1988 Act.

  The calculations are to be made separately for each designated area within a
billing authority’s area.

  Regulation 3(1) and Schedule 1 designate the areas. Copies of the maps
referred to may be inspected free of charge by prior appointment with the
Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities Business Rates Retention
Team at 2 Marsham Street, London, SW1P 4DF and the principal office of the
billing authority.

  Regulation 3(2) provides that the designation of the areas takes effect on
1st April 2023 for the period of 25 years beginning with that date. The effect
of specifying the period of designation is to trigger paragraph 39(9) of
Schedule 7B to the 1988 Act which prevents the revocation of the Regulations
and certain kinds of amendments to the Regulations until after the end of that
period.

  Regulation 4 and Schedule 2 provide the rules for the calculations. Part 1
of Schedule 2 provides rules for calculating the proportion of non-domestic
rating income in respect of a designated area for a specified year that is to
be disregarded for specified calculations under Schedule 7B to the 1988 Act.
The proportion is calculated by subtracting the baseline amount in respect of
the designated area for the specified year (calculated under Part 3 of
Schedule 2) from the non-domestic rating income in respect of that area for
that year (calculated under Part 2 of Schedule 2). Non-domestic rating income
in respect of a designated area for a specified year is essentially the
amounts payable to a billing authority under sections 43 and 45 of the 1988
Act for that year in respect of hereditaments situated in the designated area,
subject to a number of adjustments.

  The baseline amount in respect of a designated area for the specified year
beginning with 1st April 2023 is the amount specified in column 4 of the table
in Schedule 1 (this amount represents the existing non-domestic rating income
for the designated area) as uprated in accordance with the formula in
paragraph 3(2) of Schedule 2. For each subsequent specified year, the baseline
amount is an uprated amount representing growth in the billing authority’s
income in the designated area.

  An impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument because it
amends an existing local tax regime. Publication of a full impact assessment
is not necessary for such legislation, but the impact assessment prepared for
the Local Government Finance Act  2012 (c. 17)  is relevant:

  https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/84
70/2054063.pdf

