Title: The Pensions Increase (Review) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-06-10
Description: Under section 69 of the Social Security Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1975 (c.15), the Department of Finance has to provide, by Order, for the increase in the rates of public service pensions. The Pensions (Increase) Act (Northern Ireland) 1971 (c.35) defines certain terms and sets out when a pension “begins” (the day after the last day of service in respect of which the pension is payable) and how the increase applies to lump sums.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/58

## The Pensions Increase (Review) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Pensions

  Made   30th March 2023

  Coming into operation   10th April 2023

      In accordance with section 132 of the Social Security Administration
(Northern Ireland) Act 1992  the Department for Communities  has given a
direction  that the sums which are the additional pensions in long-term
benefits are to be increased by a specified percentage.           The
Department of Finance now makes the following Order in exercise of the powers
conferred by Article 69(1), (2), (5) and (5ZA) of the Social Security Pensions
(Northern Ireland) Order 1975  and now vested in it .

### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the Pensions Increase (Review) Order (Northern
Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation on 10th April 2023.

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order, “ the 1975 Order ” means the Social Security Pensions (Northern
Ireland) Order 1975.

2.2

In this Order, any reference to a pension is a reference to a pension which
began before 10th April 2023 .

### Pension increases: annual rate and lump sums

3

3.1

This article applies to an official pension if—

3.1.a

a qualifying condition is satisfied; or

3.1.b

the pension is—

3.1.b.i

a derivative pension,

3.1.b.ii

a substituted pension or,

3.1.b.iii

a relevant injury pension.

3.2

In relation to any period on or after 10th April 2023, the pension authority
may increase the annual rate  of the pension—

3.2.a

for a pension which began before 11th April 2022, by 10.1 per cent;

3.2.b

for a pension which began on or after 11th April 2022, by 10.1 per cent
multiplied by—

        A     12

where A is the number of complete months in the period between the beginning
date of the pension and 10th April 2023.

3.3

In relation to a lump sum which is payable on or after 11th April 2022 but
before 10th April 2023, the pension authority may increase the lump sum by
10.1 per cent multiplied by—

        A     12

where A is the number of complete months in the period between the beginning
date of the lump sum (or, if later, 11th April 2022) and the date on which it
becomes payable.

### Reductions in respect of guaranteed minimum pensions

4

4.1

Where—

4.1.a

a person is entitled to an increase in a guaranteed minimum pension on 10th
April 2023; and

4.1.b

entitlement to that guaranteed minimum pension arises from an employment from
which (either directly, or indirectly by virtue of the payment of a transfer
credit) entitlement to the official pension also arises;

the amount by reference to which any increase is calculated for the purposes
of article 3(2) must be reduced by an amount equal to the rate of the
guaranteed minimum pension unless the Department of Finance otherwise direct
in accordance with the provision of Article 69A  of the 1975 Order .

4.2

Where on the death of a deceased spouse or civil partner a person becomes
entitled to a guaranteed minimum pension in relation to a surviving spouse’s
pension or a surviving civil partner’s pension, the amount by reference to
which any increase is calculated for the purposes of article 3(2) must be
reduced in accordance with Article 69 (5ZA)  of the 1975 Order.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Finance on 30th March
2023.       (L.S.)   Patrick Neeson   A senior officer of the   Department of
Finance

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  Under section 69 of the Social Security Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order
1975 (c.15) , the Department of Finance has to provide, by Order, for the
increase in the rates of public service pensions. The Pensions (Increase) Act
(Northern Ireland)  1971 (c.35)  defines certain terms and sets out when a
pension “ begins ” (the day after the last day of service in respect of which
the pension is payable) and how the increase applies to lump sums.

  The increase to be made in the rates of such pensions is the percentage (or
in some circumstances a fraction of the percentage) by which the Department
for Communities has, by direction under section 132 of the Social Security
Administration (Northern Ireland) Act  1992 (c.8) , increased the sums which
are the additional pensions in long-term benefits, namely the additional
pension entitlements accruing to employees in respect of their earnings after
5th April 1978.

  For pensions which began before 11th April 2022 the increase is 10.1 per
cent.

  For pensions which began on or after 11th April 2022 the increases
(following the calculation set out in article 3) are as follows:—
Pensions Beginning Percentage Increase   11th April 2022 to 25th April 2022
10.1% 26th April 2022 to 25th May 2022 9.26% 26th May 2022 to 25th June 2022
8.42% 26th June 2022 to 25th July 2022 7.58% 26th July 2022 to 25th August
2022 6.73% 26th August 2022 to 25th September 2022 5.89% 26th September 2022
to 25th October 2022 5.05% 26th October 2022 to 25th November 2022 4.21% 26th
November 2022 to 25th December 2022 3.37% 26th December 2022 to 25th January
2023 2.53% 26th January 2023 to 25th February 2023 1.68% 26th February 2023 to
25th March 2023 0.84%

  Article 3 of the Order provides for increases on certain deferred lump sums
which become payable on or after 11th April 2022 and before 10th April 2023.

  The Order also makes provision for the amount by reference to which any
increase in the rate of an official pension is to be calculated to be reduced
by an amount equal to the rate of any guaranteed minimum pension entitlement
deriving from the employment which gives rise to the official pension.

