Title: The Optical Charges and Payments (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-05-25
Description: These Regulations further amend the Health and Personal Social Services (Optical Charges and Payments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1997 (“the principal Regulations”) which provide for payment to be made, by means of a voucher system, in respect of costs incurred by certain categories of persons in connection with the supply, replacement and repair of optical appliances.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/40

## The Optical Charges and Payments (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Health And Personal Social Services

  Made   15th March 2023

  Coming into operation   1st April 2023

      The Department of Health  makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by Articles 62, 98, 106 and 107(6) of, and Schedule 15
to, the Health and Personal Social Services (Northern Ireland) Order 1972 ,
with the approval of the Department of Finance.           In accordance with
Article 62(3) of that Order it has consulted with such organisations as appear
to it to be representative of medical practitioners practising as ophthalmic
medical practitioners and ophthalmic opticians.

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Optical Charges and Payments (Amendment)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation on 1st April
2023.

1.2

In these Regulations “ the principal Regulations ” means the Health and
Personal Social Services (Optical Charges and Payments) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1997 .

### Amendment of regulation 19 of the principal Regulations

2

2.1

In regulation 19 of the principal Regulations (redemption value of voucher for
replacement or repair)—

2.1.a

in paragraph (1)(b) for “£57.60” substitute  “£58.75” ; and

2.1.b

in paragraph (3) for “£14.90” substitute  “£15.20” .

### Amendments of the Schedules to the principal Regulations

3

3.1

In Schedule 1 to the principal Regulations (voucher letter codes and face
values – supply and replacement) , in column 3 (face value of voucher), for
each amount specified in column 1 of the Table below (old amount) substitute
the amount specified in relation to it in column 2 of that Table (new amount).

  Table           Column 1       Old Amount         Column 2       New Amount
£39.50 £40.29 £59.90 £61.10 £87.80 £89.56 £198.00 £201.96 £68.20 £69.56 £86.50
£88.23 £112.30 £114.55 £217.70 £222.05 £202.80 £206.86

3.2

In Schedule 2  to the principal Regulations (prisms, tints, photochromic
lenses, small and special glasses and complex appliances)—

3.2.a

in paragraph 1(1)(a) (prism – single vision lens) for “£12.70” substitute
“£12.95” ;

3.2.b

in paragraph 1(1)(b) (prism – other lens) for “£15.60” substitute  “£15.91” ;

3.2.c

in paragraph 1(1)(c) (single vision tinted lens) for “£4.50” substitute
“£4.59” ;

3.2.d

in paragraph 1(1)(d) (other tinted lens) for “£5.00” substitute  “£5.10” ;

3.2.e

in paragraph 1(1)(e) (small glasses)—

3.2.e.i

in sub-head (i) for “£64.80” substitute  “£66.10” ;

3.2.e.ii

in sub-head (ii) for “£57.60” substitute  “£58.75” ;

3.2.e.iii

in sub-head (iii) for “£31.10” substitute  “£31.72” ;

3.2.f

for paragraph 1(1)(g) (specially manufactured frames)—

3.2.f.i

in sub-head (i) for “£64.85” substitute  “£66.15” ;

3.2.f.ii

in sub-head (ii) for “£57.55” substitute  “£58.70” ;

3.2.f.iii

in sub-head (iii) for “£31.10” substitute  “£31.72” ;

3.2.g

in paragraph 2(a) (minimum complex appliance payment — single vision lenses)
for “£14.70” substitute  “£14.99” ; and

3.2.h

in paragraph 2(b) (minimum complex appliance payment — other cases) for
“£37.80” substitute  “£38.56” .

3.3

For Schedule 3 to the principal Regulations (voucher value repair) ,
substitute the Schedule 3 as set out in the Schedule to these Regulations.

### Application of Regulations 2 and 3

4

The amendments made in regulations 2 and 3 apply only in relation to a voucher
accepted or used pursuant to regulation 12 or regulation 17 of the principal
Regulations on or after 1 April 2023.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Health on 15th March
2023         Robbie Davis   A senior officer of the Department of Health
Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Finance on 15th March 2023
Patrick Neeson   A senior officer of the Department of Finance

  SCHEDULE 3 TO THE PRINCIPAL REGULATIONS AS SUBSTITUTED BY THESE REGULATIONS

Regulation 3(3)

  VOUCHER VALUE REPAIR

REGULATION 19(2) AND (3)

      Letter Codes - Values Nature of repair       A       £         B       £
C       £         D       £         E       £         F       £         G
£         H       £         I       £     Repair or replacement of one lens
12.55 22.95 37.13 93.33 27.13 36.47 49.67 103.38 95.83 Repair or replacement
of two lenses 25.04 45.85 74.26 186.66 54.26 72.93 99.30 206.75 191.61 Repair
or replacement of: the front of a frame 12.85 12.85 12.85 12.85 12.85 12.85
12.85 12.85 12.85 a side of a frame 7.55 7.55 7.55 7.55 7.55 7.55 7.55 7.55
7.55 the whole frame 15.25 15.25 15.25 15.25 15.25 15.25 15.25 15.25 15.25

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations further amend the Health and Personal Social Services
(Optical Charges and Payments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1997 (“ the
principal Regulations ”) which provide for payment to be made, by means of a
voucher system, in respect of costs incurred by certain categories of persons
in connection with the supply, replacement and repair of optical appliances.

  Regulation 2 amends regulation 19 of the principal Regulations to increase
the redemption value of a voucher issued towards the cost of replacement of a
single contact lens and to increase the maximum contribution by way of a
voucher to the cost of repair of a frame.

  Regulation 3 and the Schedule amend Schedules 1, 2 and 3 to the principal
Regulations. Firstly, the value of vouchers issued towards the costs of supply
and replacement of glasses and contact lenses and of vouchers for glasses
where the frame needs to be specially manufactured is increased; secondly, the
additional values for vouchers for prisms, tints, photochromic lenses and
special categories of appliances are increased; and thirdly, the value of
vouchers issued towards the cost of repair and replacement of optical
appliances is increased.

  Regulation 4 provides that the increases contained in regulation 2 and 3
apply only in relation to vouchers accepted or used on or after 1st April
2023.

