Title: The National Health Service (General Medical Services Contracts) (Wales) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-10-14
Description: These Regulations set out, for Wales, the framework for general medical services contracts under section 42 of the National Health Service Act 2006 (“the Act”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2023/953

## The National Health Service (General Medical Services Contracts) (Wales) Regulations 2023

    National Health Service, Wales

  Made   1 September 2023

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   5 September 2023

  Coming into force   1 October 2023

      The Welsh Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred on them by sections 7(8), 41(3), (5) and (6), 43, 44, 47,
48(1) and (3), 54(6) and (7), 135 and 203(9) and (10) of the National Health
Service (Wales) Act 2006 .

### General


#### Title and commencement


1

1.1

The title of these Regulations is the National Health Service (General Medical
Services Contracts) (Wales) Regulations 2023.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 1 October 2023.

#### Application


2

These Regulations apply in relation to Wales and to a contract—

2.a

to which the   2004 Regulations   applied immediately before the date on which
these Regulations come into force, or

2.b

which is entered into between a contractor and a Local Health Board on or
after that date.

#### Interpretation


3

3.1

In these Regulations—

“ the Act ” (“ y Ddeddf ”) means the National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006;
“ the 2004 Regulations ” (“ Rheoliadau 2004 ”) means the National Health
Service (General Medical Services Contracts) (Wales) Regulations 2004; “ the
2010 Order ” (“ Gorchymyn 2010 ”) means the Postgraduate Medical Education and
Training Order of Council 2010 ; “ accredited course ” (“ cwrs a achredwyd ”)
means a course accredited by the Nursing and Midwifery Council; “ adjudicator
” (“ dyfarnwr ”) means the Welsh Ministers or a person appointed by the Welsh
Ministers under section 7(8) of the Act (NHS contracts) or paragraph 106(5) of
Schedule 3; “ advanced electronic signature ” (“ llofnod electronig uwch ”)
means an electronic signature which meets the following requirements— it is
uniquely linked to the signatory, it is capable of identifying the signatory,
it is created using electronic signature creation data that the signatory can,
with a high level of confidence, use under the signatory’s sole control, and
it is linked to the data signed in such a way that any subsequent change in
the data is detectable; “ APMS contract ” (“ contract GMDdA ”) means an
arrangement to provide primary medical services made with a Local Health Board
under section 41(2)(b) of the Act (primary medical services); “ APMS
contractor ” (“ contractwr GMDdA ”) means a party to an APMS contract, other
than the Local Health Board; “ appliance ” (“ cyfarpar ”) means an appliance
which is included in a list approved by the Welsh Ministers for the purposes
of section 80 of the Act (arrangements for pharmaceutical services); ... “
armed forces of the Crown ” (“ lluoedd arfog y Goron ”) means the forces that
are “ the  regular forces” or “ the  reserve forces” within the meaning given
to those terms in section 374 of the Armed Forces Act 2006  (definitions
applying for the purposes of the whole Act); “ assessment panel ” (“ panel
asesu ”) means a committee or sub-committee of a Local Health Board (other
than the Local Health Board which is a party to the contract in question) for
the purpose of making determinations under paragraph 45(7) of Schedule 3; “
Assurance Framework ” (“ Fframwaith Sicrwydd ”) means the national approach,
using national datasets and processes, specified in guidance issued from time
to time by the Welsh Ministers for Local Health Boards to use for contract
governance and management;   “ authorised person ” (“ person awdurdodedig ”)
means, in relation to a patient, a person who is entitled to make an
application for pharmaceutical services on behalf of the patient by virtue of
regulation 62(a) to (d) of the Pharmaceutical Regulations (exercise of choice
in certain cases);   “ batch issue ” (“ swpddyroddiad ”) means a form provided
by a Local Health Board and issued by a repeatable prescriber at the same time
as a non-electronic repeatable prescription to enable an NHS pharmacist or NHS
appliance contractor to receive payment for the provision of repeat dispensing
services which is in the required format, and which— is generated by a
computer and not signed by a repeatable prescriber, relates to a particular
non-electronic repeatable prescription and contains the same date as that
prescription, is issued as one of a sequence of forms, the number of which is
equal to the number of occasions on which the drugs or appliances ordered on
the non-electronic repeatable prescription may be provided, and specifies a
number denoting its place in the sequence referred to in paragraph (c); “ care
home ” (“ cartref gofal ”) means a place in Wales at which accommodation,
together with nursing or care, is provided to persons because of their
vulnerability or need but excludes a place mentioned in paragraph 1(2) of
Schedule 1 to the Regulation and Inspection of Social Care (Wales) Act 2016 ;
“ CCT ” (“ TCH ”) means Certificate of Completion of Training awarded under
section 34L(1) of the Medical Act 1983  (award and withdrawal of a Certificate
of Completion of Training); “ cervical screening services ” (“ gwasanaethau
sgrinio serfigol ”) means the services described in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2;
“ child ” (“ plentyn ”) means a person who has not attained the age of 16; “
child health surveillance services ” (“ gwasanaethau gwyliadwriaeth iechyd
plant ”) means the services described in paragraph 2 of Schedule 2; “
childhood vaccinations and immunisations services ” (“ gwasanaethau  brechu ac
imiwneiddio i blant ”) means the services described in paragraph 3 of Schedule
2; “ clinical services ” (“ gwasanaethau clinigol ”) means medical services
under the contract which relate to the actual observation and treatment of
patients; “ closed ” (“ wedi ei chau ”), in relation to the contractor’s list
of patients, means closed to applications for inclusion in the list of
patients other than from immediate family members of registered patients; “
cluster ” (“ clwstwr ”) means a group of local service providers involved in
health and care who have agreed to collaboratively work together to deliver
primary medical services across a specified geographical area; “ contraceptive
services ” (“ gwasanaethau atal cenhedlu ”) means the services described in
paragraph 4 of Schedule 2; “ contract ” (“ contract ”) except in regulation 31
(general transitional provision and saving) means a general medical services
contract made under section 42 of the Act (general medical services contracts:
introductory); “ contractor ” (“ contractwr ”), except in regulation  6
(general condition relating to all contracts), has the meaning given in
section 42(5) of the Act (general medical services contracts: introductory); “
contractor’s list of patients ” (“ rhestr contractwr o gleifion ”) means the
list prepared and maintained by the Local Health Board under paragraph 22 of
Schedule 3; “ core hours ” (“ oriau craidd ”) means the period beginning with
8.00am and ending with 6.30pm on a working day; “ dentist ” (“ deintydd ”)
means a dental practitioner registered in the dentists register under  section
14 of   the Dentists Act 1984 ; “ Digital Health and Care Wales ” (“ Iechyd a
Gofal Digidol Cymru ”) means the organisation established under the Digital
Health and Care Wales (Establishment and Membership) Order 2020 ; “ dispenser
” (“ gweinyddydd ”) means an NHS pharmacist, medical practitioner or
contractor whom a patient wishes to dispense the patient’s electronic
prescriptions;   “ dispensing doctor ” (“ meddyg fferyllol ”) has the same
meaning given to it by regulation 2(1) of the Pharmaceutical Regulations
(interpretation);   “ dispensing services ” (“ gwasanaethau gweinyddu ”) means
the provision of drugs, medicines or appliances that may be provided as
pharmaceutical services by a medical practitioner in accordance with
arrangements under section 80 ( arrangements   for pharmaceutical services)
and section 86 (persons authorised to provide pharmaceutical services) of the
Act; “ Drug Tariff ” (“ Tariff Cyffuriau ”) means the publication known as the
Drug Tariff which is referred to in section 81(4) of the Act (arrangements for
additional pharmaceutical services); “ electronic communication ” (“
cyfathrebiad electronig ”) has the meaning given by section 15(1) of the
Electronic Communications Act 2000  (general interpretation); “ electronic
prescription ” (“ presgripsiwn electronig ”) means an electronic prescription
form or an electronic repeatable prescription; “ electronic prescription form
” (“ ffurflen bresgripsiwn electronig ”) means data created in an electronic
form for the purpose of ordering a drug or appliance which— is signed, or is
to be signed, with a prescriber’s advanced electronic signature, is
transmitted, or is to be transmitted, as an electronic communication to a
nominated dispenser by the ETP service, or via an information hub by the
Electronic Prescription Service, and does not indicate that the drug or
appliance ordered may be provided more than once; “ Electronic Prescription
Service ” (“ Gwasanaeth Presgripsiynau Electronig ”) means the service of that
name which is managed by NHS England; “ electronic repeatable prescription ”
(“ presgripsiwn amlroddadwy electronig ”) means a prescription which falls
within paragraph (a)(ii) of the definition of “repeatable prescription”; “
electronic signature ” (“ llofnod electronig ”) means data in electronic form
which is attached to or logically associated with other data in electronic
form and which is used by the signatory to sign; “ electronic signature
creation data ” (“ data creu llofnod electronig ”) means unique data which is
used by the signatory to create an electronic signature; “ EPS token ” (“
tocyn GPE ”) means a form (which may be an electronic form), approved by the
Secretary of State, which— may be issued by a prescriber at the same time as
an electronic prescription is created, and has a barcode or unique identifier
that enables the prescription to be dispensed by a provider of pharmaceutical
services that is able to use the Electronic Prescription Service for the
purposes of dispensing prescriptions, in circumstances where the provider is
not dispensing the prescription as a nominated dispenser; “ ETP service ” (“
gwasanaeth TPE ”) means the 2-dimensional barcoded prescription service which
forms part of the information technology systems in prescribing and dispensing
systems in Wales and used by the health service in Wales to transfer and hold
prescription information relating to patients; “ general medical practitioner
” (“ ymarferydd meddygol cyffredinol ”) means a medical practitioner whose
name is included in the General Practitioner Register kept by the General
Medical Council under section 2 of the Medical Act 1983  (registration of
medical practitioners);   “ the General Pharmaceutical Council ” (“ y Cyngor
Fferyllol Cyffredinol ”) means the body established under article 4(1) of the
Pharmacy Order 2010 (the Council and its committees);     “ the General
Pharmaceutical Council Register ” (“ Cofrestr y Cyngor Fferyllol Cyffredinol
”) means the register established and maintained under article 19 of the
Pharmacy Order 2010 (establishment, maintenance of and access to the
Register);   “ General Practice Escalation Tool ” (“ Offeryn Uwchgyfeirio
Ymarfer Cyffredinol ”) means the tool agreed by Welsh Ministers, Local Health
Boards and the   Welsh General Practitioners Committee   containing a
framework for reporting pressures on service delivery within practices; “
global sum ” (“ swm craidd ”) is to be interpreted in accordance with Part 2
of the GMS Statement of Financial Entitlements; “ GMS contract ” (“ contract
GMC ”) means a general medical services contract under section 42 of the Act
(general medical services contracts: introductory); “ GMS contractor ” (“
contractwr GMC ”) means a party to a GMS contract, other than the Local Health
Board; “ GMS Statement of Financial Entitlements ” (“ Datganiad ar
Hawlogaethau Ariannol yr GMC ”) means the Directions to Local Health Boards as
to the Statement of Financial Entitlements given by Welsh Ministers under
section 45 of the Act (GMS contracts: payments); “ GP Collaborative ” (“
Cydweithredfa Ymarfer Cyffredinol ”) means a group of primary medical service
providers working together, within the area in which the registered patients
of those primary medical service providers reside, to deliver co-ordinated
primary medical services in that area, and to promote the wellbeing of
patients across the area in which the registered patients of those primary
medical service providers reside; “ GP Specialty Registrar ” (“ Cofrestrydd
Arbenigol Ymarfer Cyffredinol ”) means a medical practitioner who is being
trained in general practice by a general medical practitioner who is approved
under section 34I of the Medical Act 1983  for the purpose of providing
training under that section, whether as part of training leading to the award
of a CCT or otherwise;   “ the Health and Care Professions Council ” (“ y
Cyngor Proffesiynau Iechyd a Gofal ”) is the body established under article
3(1) of the Health Professions Order 2001 (the Health and Care Professions
Council and its committees);     “ the Health and Care Professions Council
Register ” (“ Cofrestr y Cyngor Proffesiynau Iechyd a Gofal ”) is the register
established and maintained under article 5(1) of the Health Professions Order
2001 (registration);   “ Health and Social Care Trust ” (“ Ymddiriedolaeth
Iechyd a Gofal Cymdeithasol ”) means a Health and Social Care Trust
established under article 10 of the Health and Personal Social Services
(Northern Ireland) Order 1991  (Health and Social Care trusts); “ Health Board
” (“ Bwrdd Iechyd ”) means a Health Board established under section 2 of the
National Health Service (Scotland) Act 1978  (Health Boards); “ health care
professional ” (“ proffesiynolyn gofal iechyd ”) means a person other than a
social worker who is a member of a profession regulated by a body mentioned in
section 25(3) of the National Health Service Reform and Health Care
Professions Act 2002 ; “ health service body ” (“ corff gwasanaeth iechyd ”)
has the meaning given in section 7(4)  of the Act (NHS contracts); “ home
oxygen order form ” (“ ffurflen archebu ocsigen cartref ”) means a form
provided by a Local Health Board and issued by a health care professional to
authorise a person to supply home oxygen services to a patient requiring
oxygen therapy at home; “ home oxygen services ” (“ gwasanaethau ocsigen
cartref ”) means any of the following forms of oxygen therapy or supply—
ambulatory oxygen supply, urgent supply, hospital discharge supply, long term
oxygen therapy, and short burst oxygen therapy; “ immediate family member ” (“
aelod o deulu agos ”) means— a spouse or civil partner, a person (whether or
not of the opposite sex) whose relationship with the registered patient has
the characteristics of the relationship between husband and wife, a parent or
step-parent, a son, a daughter, a child of whom the registered patient is— the
guardian, or the carer duly authorised by a local authority to whose care the
child has been committed under the Children Act 1989 , or a grandparent; “
independent nurse prescriber ” (“ nyrs sy’n rhagnodi’n annibynnol ”) means a
person— who is registered in the Nursing and Midwifery Register, and against
whose name in that register is recorded an annotation signifying that they are
qualified to order drugs and appliances as a community practitioner nurse
prescriber, a nurse independent prescriber or a nurse
independent/supplementary prescriber; “ LHBMS practice ” (“ practis GMBILl ”)
means a practice providing Local Health Board Medical Services; ... “
licensing body ” (“ corff trwyddedu ”) means a body that licenses or regulates
a profession; “ limited partnership ” (“ partneriaeth gyfyngedig ”) means a
partnership registered in accordance with section 5 of the Limited
Partnerships Act 1907  (registration of limited partnerships required); “
Local Health Board ” (“ Bwrdd Iechyd Lleol ”) means  ... the Local Health
Board which is a party, or prospective party, to a contract; “ Local Health
Board Medical Services ” (“ Gwasanaethau Meddygol Bwrdd Iechyd Lleol ”) means
primary medical services provided by a Local Health Board under section
41(2)(a) of the Act (primary medical services); “ Local Medical Committee ” (“
Pwyllgor Meddygol Lleol ”) means a committee recognised under section 54 of
the Act (Local Medical Committees); “ local pharmaceutical services ” (“
gwasanaethau fferyllol lleol ”) has the meaning given by regulation 2(1) of
the Pharmaceutical Regulations; “ maternity medical services ” (“ gwasanaethau
meddygol mamolaeth ”) means the services described in paragraph 5 of Schedule
2; “ medical performers list ” (“ rhestr cyflawnwyr meddygol ”) means a list
of medical practitioners prepared and published pursuant to regulation 3(1) of
the National Health Service (Performers Lists) (Wales) Regulations 2004 ; “
medical practitioner ” (“ ymarferydd meddygol ”) has the meaning given by
section 206(1) of the Act; “ Medical Register ” (“ Cofrestr Feddygol ”) means
the register kept under section 2 of the Medical Act 1983  (registration of
medical practitioners); “ minor surgery ” (“ mân lawdriniaeth ”) means the
services described in paragraph 6 of Schedule 2; “ national disqualification ”
(“ anghymhwysiad cenedlaethol ”) means— a decision made by the First Tier
Tribunal under section 115 of the Act (national disqualification) or under
regulations corresponding to that section made under— section 49 of the Act
(persons performing primary medical services), section 63 of the Act (persons
performing primary dental services), section 72 of the Act (regulations as to
general ophthalmic services), and   section     83 (regulations as to
pharmaceutical services), 86 (persons authorised to provide pharmaceutical
services), 103 (application of enactments) or 105 (supplementary lists)   of
the Act, or any decision in England, Scotland or Northern Ireland
corresponding to a national disqualification under section 115(2) and (3) of
the Act;   “NHS appliance contractor”   (“ contractwr cyfarpar GIG ”) means a
person who is included in a pharmaceutical list under regulation 10 of the
Pharmaceutical Regulations (preparation and maintenance of pharmaceutical
lists) for the provision of pharmaceutical services only by the provision of
appliances; “ NHS contract ” (“ contract GIG ”) has the meaning given to it by
section 7 of the Act; “ NHS dispute resolution procedure ” (“ gweithdrefn
datrys anghydfodau’r GIG ”) means the procedure for resolution of disputes
specified— in paragraphs 106 and 107 of Schedule 3, or in a case to which
paragraph 46 of Schedule 3 applies, in that paragraph; “ NHS pharmacist ” (“
fferyllydd GIG ”) means— a registered pharmacist, or person lawfully carrying
on a retail pharmacy business in accordance with section 69 of the Medicines
Act 1968 , whose name is included in a pharmaceutical list under regulation 10
of the Pharmaceutical Regulations (preparation and maintenance of
pharmaceutical lists) for the provision of pharmaceutical services in
particular by the provision of drugs; “ nominated dispenser ” (“ gweinyddydd
enwebedig ”) means an NHS pharmacist, medical practitioner or contractor who
has been nominated in respect of a patient where the details of that
nomination are held in respect of that patient in the Personal Demographic
Service which is managed by NHS England; “ non-electronic prescription form ”
(“ ffurflen bresgripsiwn anelectronig ”) means a prescription form which falls
within paragraph (a) of the definition of “prescription form”; “ non-
electronic repeatable prescription ” (“ presgripsiwn amlroddadwy anelectronig
”) means a prescription which falls within paragraph (a)(i) of the definition
of “repeatable prescription”; “ nurse independent prescriber ” (“ nyrs-
ragnodydd annibynnol ”) means a person— who is either engaged or employed by a
contractor or is a party to a contract, whose name is registered in the
Nursing and Midwifery Register, against whose name in that register is
recorded an annotation or entry signifying that they are qualified to order
drugs, medicines and appliances as— a nurse independent prescriber, or a nurse
independent/supplementary prescriber, and who, in respect of a person
practising in Wales on or after 19 July 2010, has passed an accredited course
to practise as a nurse independent prescriber; “ Nursing and Midwifery
Register ” (“ Cofrestr Nyrsio a Bydwreigiaeth ”) means the register maintained
by the Nursing and Midwifery Council under article 5 of the Nursing and
Midwifery Order 2001  (establishment and maintenance of register); “ online
practice profile ” (“ proffil practis ar-lein ”) means a profile— which is on
a website (other than   an   NHS website), or online platform, provided by
another person for use by the contractor, and through which the contractor
advertises the primary medical services it provides; “ online resource ” (“
adnodd ar-lein ”) means a practice website or online practice profile; “ open
” (“ agored ”), in relation to a contractor’s list of patients, means open to
applications from patients in accordance with paragraphs 23, 24 and 25 of
Schedule 3; “ optometrist independent prescriber ” (“ optometrydd-ragnodydd
annibynnol ”) means a person— who is an optometrist registered in the register
of optometrists maintained under section 7 of the Opticians Act 1989  (which
relates to the register of optometrists and the register of dispensing
opticians) or the register of visiting optometrists from relevant European
States maintained under section 8B(1)(a) of that Act, and against whose name
is recorded an annotation signifying that the optometrist is qualified to
order drugs, medicines and appliances as an optometrist independent
prescriber; “ out of hours period ” (“ cyfnod y tu allan i oriau ”) means any
days or times outside of the core hours; “ out of hours services ” (“
gwasanaethau y tu allan i oriau ”) means services provided in all or part of
an out of hours period which would be unified services if provided by a
contractor to its registered patients in core hours; “ paramedic independent
prescriber ” (“ parafeddyg-ragnodydd annibynnol ”) means a person— who is
either engaged or employed by a contractor or who is a party to a contract,
who is registered as a paramedic in Part 8 of the Health and Care Professions
Council register, and against whose name is recorded in Part 8 of that
register an annotation signifying that the person is qualified to order drugs,
medicines and appliances as a paramedic independent prescriber; “ parent ” (“
rhiant ”) includes, in relation to any child, any adult who, in the opinion of
the contractor, is for the time being discharging in respect of that child the
obligations normally attaching to a parent in respect of their child; “
patient ” (“ claf ”) means— a registered patient, a temporary resident,
persons to whom the contractor is required to provide immediately necessary
treatment under regulation   17(7) or (9) , and any other person to whom the
contractor has agreed to provide services under the contract; “ performer ” (“
cyflawnydd ”) means a performer of medical services under the contract to whom
the provisions of Part 6 of Schedule 3 apply; “ Pharmaceutical Regulations ”
(“ Rheoliadau Fferyllol ”) means the National Health Service (Pharmaceutical
Services) (Wales) Regulations 2020 ; “ pharmaceutical services ” (“
gwasanaethau fferyllol ”) means pharmaceutical services that fall within
sections 80 and 81 of the Act and includes   services which have been arranged
as a result of a direction from the Welsh Ministers under the Act ; “
pharmacist independent prescriber ” (“ fferyllydd-ragnodydd annibynnol ”)
means a registered pharmacist— who is either engaged or employed by the
contractor or is a party to the contract, and against whose name in Part 1 of
the General Pharmaceutical Council Register or in the register maintained
under Articles 6 and 9 of the Pharmacy (Northern Ireland) Order 1976  (which
relates to registers and the registrar) is recorded an annotation signifying
that they are qualified to order drugs, medicines and appliances as a
pharmacist independent prescriber; “ physiotherapist independent prescriber ”
(“ ffisiotherapydd-ragnodydd annibynnol ”) means a person— who is either
engaged or employed by the contractor or is a party to the contract, and
against whose name in Part 9 of the register maintained under article 5 of the
Health Professions Order 2001   is recorded an annotation signifying that they
are qualified to order drugs, medicines and appliances as a physiotherapist
independent prescriber; “ podiatrist or chiropodist independent prescriber ”
(“ podiatrydd-ragnodydd neu giropodydd-ragnodydd annibynnol ”) means a person—
who is engaged or employed by the contractor or is a party to the contract,
who is registered in Part 2 of the register maintained under article 5 of the
Health Professions Order 2001  (establishment and maintenance of register),
and against whose name in Part 2 of that register is recorded an annotation
signifying that they are qualified to order drugs, medicines and appliances as
a podiatrist or chiropodist independent prescriber; “ post-registration
programme ” (“ rhaglen ôl-gofrestru ”) means a programme that is for the time
being recognised by the General Medical Council under   section   10A of the
Medical Act 1983 (programmes for provisionally registered doctors) as
providing provisionally registered doctors with an acceptable foundation for
future practise as a fully registered medical practitioner; “ practice ” (“
practis ”) means the business operated by the contractor for the purpose of
delivering services under the contract; “ practice area ” (“ ardal practis ”)
means the area referred to in regulation  18(1)(d) ; “ practice premises ” (“
mangre practis ”) means an address specified in the contract as one at which
services are to be provided under the contract; “ practice website ” (“ gwefan
practis ”) means a website through which the contractor advertises the primary
medical services it provides; “ Pre-employment Checks Standards ” (“ Safonau
Gwirio Cyn Cyflogaeth ”) means the pre-appointment checks that an employer
must undertake as part of their recruitment process before recruiting staff
which must at least include the following elements of the NHS Employment
Checks Standards published by the NHS Confederation— identity checks standard,
right to work checks standard, professional registration and qualification
checks standard, reference checks standard, and criminal record checks
standard; “ prescriber ” (“ rhagnodydd ”) means a— dentist, independent nurse
prescriber, medical practitioner, nurse independent prescriber, optometrist
independent prescriber, paramedic independent prescriber, pharmacist
independent prescriber, physiotherapist independent prescriber, podiatrist or
chiropodist independent prescriber, supplementary prescriber, or therapeutic
radiographer independent prescriber, who is either engaged or employed by the
contractor or is a party to the contract; “ prescription form ” (“ ffurflen
bresgripsiwn ”) means— a form provided by a Local Health Board, an NHS Trust,
an NHS Foundation Trust or an equivalent body and issued by a prescriber, or
an electronic prescription form, that enables a person to obtain
pharmaceutical services and does not include a repeatable prescription; “
prescription only medicine ” (“ meddyginiaeth a roddir ar bresgripsiwn yn unig
”) means a medicine referred to in regulation 5(3) (classification of
medicinal products) of the Human Medicines Regulations 2012; “ primary care
list ” (“ rhestr gofal sylfaenol ”) means— a list of persons performing
primary medical or dental services prepared in accordance with regulations
made under section 49   or section   63 of the Act, a list of persons
undertaking to provide or assist in primary medical services, primary dental
services, general ophthalmic services or, as the case may be, pharmaceutical
services prepared in accordance with regulations made under Part 4, Part 5,
Part 6, Part 7   or   Part 8 of the Act, or a list corresponding to any of the
above in England, Scotland or Northern Ireland; “ primary carer ” (“ prif
ofalwr ”) means, in relation to an adult, the adult or organisation primarily
caring for that adult; “ primary medical services ” (“ gwasanaethau meddygol
sylfaenol ”) means medical services provided under or by virtue of a contract
or agreement to which the provisions of Part 4 of the Act applies; “ private
services ” (“ gwasanaethau preifat ”) means the provision of any paid
treatment of a type which would usually amount to primary medical services if
it were provided under or by virtue of a contract or agreement to which the
provisions of Part 4 of the Act apply; “ prohibited act ” (“ gweithred
waharddedig ”) means committing an offence under the Bribery Act 2010; “
Public Health Wales ” (“ Iechyd Cyhoeddus Cymru ”) means the Public Health
Wales Trust as established by the Public Health Wales National Health Service
Trust (Establishment) Order 2009 ; “ registered paramedic ” (“ parafeddyg
cofrestredig ”) means a person registered in Part 8 of the Health and Care
Professions Council register; “ registered patient ” (“ claf cofrestredig ”)
means— a person who is recorded by the Local Health Board as being on the
contractor’s list of patients, or a person whom the contractor has accepted
for inclusion on its list of patients, whether or not notification of that
acceptance has been received by the Local Health Board and who has not been
notified by the Local Health Board as having ceased to be on that list; “
registered pharmacist ” (“ fferyllydd cofrestredig ”) means a person who is
registered in Part 1 of the General Pharmaceutical Council Register or in the
register maintained under Articles 6 and 9 of the Pharmacy (Northern Ireland)
Order 1976; “ registered radiographer ” (“ radiograffydd cofrestredig ”) means
a person registered in Part 11 of the Health and Care Professions Council
register; “ regulatory or supervisory body ” (“ corff rheoleiddio neu
oruchwylio ”) means any statutory or other body having authority to issue
guidance, standards or recommendations with which the contractor, or those
persons employed or engaged by it, must comply or have regard, including— the
Welsh Ministers, the Department of Health and Social Care, NICE, Healthwatch
England and Local Healthwatch, the UK Health Security Agency, the General
Pharmaceutical Council, the Health Services Safety Investigation Body, the
Information Commissioner, and any other body listed in section   25(3)   of
the National Health Service Reform and Health Care Professions Act 2002; “
relevant register ” (“ cofrestr berthnasol ”) means— in relation to a nurse,
the Nursing and Midwifery Register, in relation to a pharmacist, Part 1 of the
register maintained under article 19 (establishment, maintenance of and access
to the register) of the Pharmacy Order 2010  or the register maintained under
Article 6 (the Register) and Article 9 (the Registrar) of the Pharmacy
(Northern Ireland) Order 1976 , in relation to an optometrist, the register
maintained by the General Optical Council in pursuance of section 7(a) of the
Opticians Act 1989 (register of opticians) , and the part of the register
maintained by the Health and Care Professions Council under article 5 of the
Health Professions Order 2001  (establishment and maintenance of register)
relating to— chiropodists and podiatrists, paramedics, physiotherapists, or
radiographers; “ repeat dispensing services ” (“ gwasanaethau amlweinyddu ”)
means pharmaceutical services or local pharmaceutical services which involve
the provision of drugs, medicines or appliances by an NHS pharmacist or an NHS
appliance contractor in accordance with a repeatable prescription; “
repeatable prescribing services ” (“ gwasanaethau amlragnodi ”) means services
which involve the prescribing of drugs, medicines or appliances on a
repeatable prescription; “ repeatable prescriber ” (“ rhagnodydd amlroddadwy
”) means a person who is— a GMS contractor who provides repeatable prescribing
services under the terms of its contract which give effect to paragraph 52
(repeatable prescribing services) of Schedule 3, an APMS contractor who
provides repeatable prescribing services under the terms of its agreement
which give effect to a provision in directions made by the Welsh Ministers
under section 12(3) of the  ... Act in relation to APMS contracts which is the
equivalent provision to paragraph 52 of Schedule 3, or employed or engaged by—
a GMS contractor who provides repeatable prescribing services under the terms
of a contract which give effect to paragraph 52 of Schedule 3, an APMS
contractor who provides repeatable prescribing services under the terms of an
agreement which give effect to a provision in directions made by the Welsh
Ministers under section 12(3) of the  ... Act in relation to APMS contracts
which is the equivalent provision to paragraph 52 of Schedule 3, or a Local
Health Board for the purposes of providing primary medical services within a
LHBMS practice which provides repeatable prescribing services in accordance
with a provision in directions made by the Welsh Ministers under section 12(3)
of the  ... Act in relation to Local Health Board Medical Services which is
the equivalent provision to paragraph 52 of Schedule 3; “ repeatable
prescription ” (“ presgripsiwn amlroddadwy ”) means a prescription contained
in a form provided by a Local Health Board for the purpose of ordering a drug,
medicine or appliance which is in the format required by the NHS Business
Services Authority and which— is either— generated by computer but signed by a
repeatable prescriber, or a form created in an electronic format, identified
using a repeatable prescriber’s code, transmitted as an electronic
communication to a nominated NHS pharmacist, NHS appliance contractor or
dispensing doctor by the ETP service and is signed with a repeatable
prescriber’s advanced electronic signature, is issued or created to enable a
person to obtain pharmaceutical services, and indicates that the drugs or
appliances ordered on that form may be provided more than once, and specifies
the number of occasions on which they may be provided; “ restricted
availability appliance ” (“ cyfarpar argaeledd cyfyngedig ”) means an
appliance which is approved for particular categories of persons or particular
purposes only; “ Scheduled drug ” (“ cyffur Atodlen ”) means a drug or other
substance specified in Schedule 1 or 2 to the National Health Service (General
Medical Services Contracts) (Prescription of Drugs etc.) (Wales) Regulations
2004  (which relate to drugs, medicines and other substances not to be ordered
under a general medical services contract or that may be ordered only in
certain circumstances); “ service provider ” (“ darparwr gwasanaeth ”) has the
meaning given by section 3(1)(c) of the Regulation and Inspection of Social
Care (Wales) Act 2016 ; “ signatory ” (“ llofnodwr ”) means a natural person
who creates an electronic signature; “ supplementary prescriber ” (“
rhagnodydd atodol ”) means— a registered pharmacist against whose name in Part
1 of the General Pharmaceutical Council Register or in the register maintained
under Articles 6 and 9 of the Pharmacy (Northern Ireland) Order 1976 is
recorded an annotation signifying that they are qualified to order drugs,
medicines and appliances as a supplementary prescriber, a person whose name is
registered in the Nursing and Midwifery Register and against whose name in
that Register is recorded an annotation signifying that they are qualified to
order drugs, medicines and appliances as a nurse independent/supplementary
prescriber, a person— who is registered in a part of the register maintained
under article 5 of the Health Professions Order 2001 (establishment and
maintenance of register) which relates to chiropodists and podiatrists,
dieticians, paramedics, physiotherapists or radiographers, and against whose
name in that register is recorded an annotation signifying that they are
qualified to order drugs, medicines and appliances as a supplementary
prescriber, or an optometrist against whose name in the register of
optometrists maintained under section 7 or 8B(1)(a) of the Opticians Act 1989
is recorded an annotation signifying that the optometrist is qualified to
order drugs, medicines and appliances as a supplementary prescriber; “
supplementary services ” (“ gwasanaethau atodol ”) are— services other than
unified services or out of hours services, or unified services or an element
of such a service that a contractor agrees under the contract to provide in
accordance with specifications set out in a plan, which requires of the
contractor an enhanced level of service provision compared to that which it
must generally provide in relation to that unified service or element of
service; “ temporary resident ” (“ preswylydd dros dro ”) means a person
accepted by the contractor as a temporary resident under paragraph 25 of
Schedule 3 and for whom the contractor’s responsibility has not been
terminated in accordance with that paragraph; “ therapeutic radiographer
independent prescriber ” (“ radiograffydd therapiwtig-ragnodydd annibynnol ”)
means a radiographer— who is a registered radiographer, and against whose name
is recorded in Part 11 of the Health and Care Professions Council register— an
entitlement to use the title “therapeutic radiographer” or “radiograffydd
therapiwtig”, and an annotation signifying that they are qualified to order
drugs, medicines and appliances as a therapeutic radiographer independent
prescriber; “ unified services ” (“ gwasanaethau unedig ”) means the services
required to be provided in accordance with regulation  17 ; “ vaccine and
immunisation services ” (“ gwasanaethau brechu ac imiwneiddio ”) means the
services described in paragraph 7 of Schedule 2; “ working day ” (“ diwrnod
gwaith ”) means any day apart from Saturday, Sunday, Christmas Day, Good
Friday or a bank holiday; “ writing ” (“ ysgrifennu ”), except in   paragraph
109(1)   of Schedule 3 and unless the context otherwise requires, includes
electronic mail and “ written ” is to be construed accordingly.

3.2

In these Regulations, the use of the term “ it ” in relation to the contractor
is to be deemed to include a reference to a contractor that is an individual
medical practitioner, two or more individuals practising in partnership or a
company limited by shares and related expressions are to be construed
accordingly.

3.3

Expressions used in these Regulations and in the Act have the same meaning as
in that Act.

### Contractors: conditions and eligibility


#### Conditions: general


4

The Local Heath Board may only enter into a contract if the conditions
specified in regulations 5 and 6 are met.

#### Conditions relating solely to medical practitioners


5

5.1

Where the Local Health Board enters, or is proposing to enter into a contract
with—

5.1.a

a medical practitioner, that medical practitioner must be a general medical
practitioner;

5.1.b

two or more persons practising in a partnership—

5.1.b.i

at least one partner (who must not be a limited partner) must be a general
medical practitioner, and

5.1.b.ii

any other partner who is a medical practitioner must be—

5.1.b.ii.aa

a general medical practitioner, or

5.1.b.ii.bb

employed by a Local Health Board, (in England and Wales and Scotland) an NHS
Trust, an NHS foundation trust, (in Scotland) a Health Board, or (in Northern
Ireland) a Health and Social Care Trust; or

5.1.c

a company limited by shares—

5.1.c.i

at least one share in the company must be both legally and beneficially owned
by a general medical practitioner, and

5.1.c.ii

any other share or shares in the company that are legally and beneficially
owned by a medical practitioner must be so owned by—

5.1.c.ii.aa

a general medical practitioner, or

5.1.c.ii.bb

a medical practitioner who is employed by a Local Health Board, (in England
and Wales and Scotland) an NHS Trust, an NHS foundation trust, (in Scotland) a
Health Board or, (in Northern Ireland) a Health and Social Care Trust.

5.2

In paragraph (1)(a), (b)(i) and (c)(i) “ general medical practitioner ” does
not include a medical practitioner whose name is included in the General
Practitioner Register by virtue of being a medical practitioner to whom
paragraph (3), (4) or (5) applies.

5.3

This paragraph applies to a medical practitioner referred to in article 4(3)
of the 2010 Order (general practitioners eligible for entry in the General
Practitioner Register) who was exempt from the requirement to have the
prescribed experience under—

5.3.a

regulation 5(1)(d) of the National Health Service (Vocational Training for
General Medical Practice) Regulations 1997 ,

5.3.b

regulation 5(1)(d) of the National Health Service (Vocational Training for
General Medical Practice) (Scotland) Regulations 1998 , or

5.3.c

regulation 5(1)(d) of the   Medical Practitioners   (Vocational Training)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1998 .

5.4

This paragraph applies to a medical practitioner who has an acquired right for
the purposes of article 6(2) of the 2010 Order (persons with acquired rights)
by virtue of—

5.4.a

having been a restricted services principal, and

5.4.b

that medical practitioner’s name being included, as at 31 December 1994, in—

5.4.b.i

a medical list which was, at that date, kept by a Family Health Services
Authority , or

5.4.b.ii

any corresponding list which was, at that date, kept by a Health Board or by
the Northern Ireland Central Services Agency for the Health and Social
Services in Northern Ireland.

5.5

This paragraph applies to a medical practitioner who has an acquired right for
the purposes of article 6(6) of the 2010 Order (which relates to persons
engaged or provided as a deputy or employed as an assistant) because, on at
least 10 days in the 4 years ending with 31 December 1994, or on at least 40
days in the 10 years ending with that date, that medical practitioner was—

5.5.a

engaged as a deputy by, or provided as a deputy to, a medical practitioner
whose name was included in—

5.5.a.i

the medical list which was, at that date, kept by a Family Health Services
Authority, or

5.5.a.ii

any corresponding list kept, at that date, by a Health Board or by the
Northern Ireland Central Services Agency for the Health and Social Services in
Northern Ireland, or

5.5.b

employed as an assistant (other than as a trainee general practitioner) by
such a medical practitioner.

5.6

In paragraph (4)(a), “ restricted services principal ” means a medical
practitioner who provided general medical services limited to child health
surveillance, contraceptive services, maternity medical services or minor
surgery.

#### General condition relating to all contracts


6

6.1

The Local Health Board must not enter into a contract with—

6.1.a

a medical practitioner to whom paragraph (2) applies,

6.1.b

two or more persons practising in partnership, where paragraph (2) applies to
any person who is a partner in the partnership, or

6.1.c

a company limited by shares where paragraph (2) applies to—

6.1.c.i

the company,

6.1.c.ii

any person legally or beneficially owning a share in the company, or

6.1.c.iii

any director or secretary of the company.

6.2

This paragraph applies if—

6.2.a

the person is the subject of a national disqualification;

6.2.b

subject to paragraph (3), the person is disqualified or suspended (other than
by interim suspension order or direction pending an investigation) from
practising by any licensing body anywhere in the world;

6.2.c

the person has, within the 5 years before either the signing of the contract
or commencement of the contract (whichever is the earlier), been dismissed
(otherwise than by reason of redundancy) from any employment by a health
service body, unless—

6.2.c.i

if the person was employed as a member of a health care profession at the time
of the dismissal, the person has subsequently been employed by that health
service body or by another health service body, and

6.2.c.ii

the dismissal was the subject of a finding of unfair dismissal by any
competent tribunal or a court;

6.2.d

the person has, within the 5 years before either the signing of the contract
or commencement of the contract (whichever is the earlier), been removed from,
or refused admission to, a primary care list by reason of inefficiency, fraud
or unsuitability (within the meaning of section 107(2), (3) or (4) of the Act
(disqualification of practitioners)), or a performers list held by the Local
Health Board by virtue of regulation made under section 49(3) (persons
performing primary medical services) of the Act, unless the person’s name has
been subsequently been included in such a list;

6.2.e

the person has been convicted in the United Kingdom of murder;

6.2.f

the person has been convicted in the United Kingdom of a criminal offence
other than murder committed on or after 14 December 2001 and has been
sentenced to a term of imprisonment of longer than 6 months;

6.2.g

subject to paragraph (3), the person has been convicted outside the United
Kingdom of an offence which would, if committed in England and Wales,
constitute murder and—

6.2.g.i

the offence was committed on or after 26 August 2002, and

6.2.g.ii

the person was sentenced to a term of imprisonment of longer than 6 months;

6.2.h

the person has been convicted of an offence, referred to in Schedule 1 to the
Children and Young Persons Act 1933  (offences against children and young
persons, with respect to which special provisions of this Act apply), or in
Schedule 1 to the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995  (offences against
children under the age of 17 years of to which special provisions apply),
committed on or after 1 March 2004;

6.2.i

the person has at any time been included in—

6.2.i.i

any barred list within the meaning of section 2 of the Safeguarding Vulnerable
Groups Act 2006  (barred lists), or

6.2.i.ii

any barred list within the meaning of Article 6 of the Safeguarding Vulnerable
Groups (Northern Ireland) Order 2007 (barred lists),

unless the person was removed from the list either on the grounds that it was
not appropriate for the person to have been included in it or as the result of
a successful appeal;

6.2.j

the person has, within the period of 5 years before either the signing of the
contract or commencement of the contract (whichever is the earlier), been
removed from the office of charity trustee or trustee for a charity by an
order made by the Charity Commission, the Charity Commission for Northern
Ireland or the High Court, and that order was made on the grounds of
misconduct or mismanagement in the administration of a charity for which the
person was responsible or to which the person was privy, or which was
contributed to, or facilitated by, the person’s conduct;

6.2.k

the person has, within the 5 years before either the date of the signing of
the contract or the commencement of the contract (whichever is the earlier),
been removed from being concerned with the management or control of any body
in a case where the removal was by virtue of section 34(5)(e) of the Charities
and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005  (powers of Court of Session);

6.2.l

the person—

6.2.l.i

has been made bankrupt and has not been discharged from the bankruptcy or the
bankruptcy order has not been annulled, or

6.2.l.ii

has had sequestration of the person’s estate awarded and has not been
discharged from the sequestration;

6.2.m

the person is the subject of a bankruptcy restrictions order or an interim
bankruptcy restrictions order under Schedule 4A to the Insolvency Act 1986
(bankruptcy restrictions order and undertaking), Schedule 2A to the Insolvency
(Northern Ireland) Order 1989  (bankruptcy restrictions order and
undertaking), or sections 56A to 56K of the Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 1985
(bankruptcy restrictions order, interim bankruptcy restrictions order and
bankruptcy restrictions undertaking), unless the person has been discharged
from that order or that order has been annulled;

6.2.n

the person—

6.2.n.i

is subject to moratorium period under a debt relief order under Part   7A   of
the Insolvency Act 1986  (debt relief orders), or

6.2.n.ii

is the subject of a debt relief restrictions order or an interim debt relief
restrictions order under Schedule 4ZB to the Insolvency Act 1986  (debt relief
restrictions orders and undertakings);

6.2.o

the person has made a composition agreement or arrangement with, or granted a
trust deed for, the person’s creditors and the person has not been discharged
in respect of it;

6.2.p

the person is subject to—

6.2.p.i

a disqualification order under section 1 of the Company Directors
Disqualification Act 1986  (disqualification orders: general) or a
disqualification undertaking under section 1A of that Act  (disqualification
undertakings: general),

6.2.p.ii

a disqualification order or disqualification undertaking under article 3
(disqualification orders: general) or Article 4 (disqualification
undertakings: general) of the Company Directors Disqualification (Northern
Ireland) Order 2002 , or

6.2.p.iii

a disqualification order under section 429(2) of the Insolvency Act 1986
(disabilities on revocation of an administration order against an individual);

6.2.q

the person has had an administrator, administrative receiver or receiver
appointed in respect of them;

6.2.r

the person has had an administration order made in respect of the contractor
under Schedule B1 to the Insolvency Act 1986  (administration); or

6.2.s

the contractor is a partnership and—

6.2.s.i

a dissolution of the partnership is ordered by any competent court, tribunal
or arbitrator, or

6.2.s.ii

an event happens that makes it unlawful for the business of the partnership to
continue, or for members of the partnership to carry on in partnership.

6.3

Paragraph (2)(b) or, as the case may be, paragraph (2)(g), does not apply to a
person where—

6.3.a

that person—

6.3.a.i

has been disqualified or suspended from practising by a licensing body outside
of the United Kingdom, or

6.3.a.ii

has been convicted of a criminal offence outside of the United Kingdom, and

6.3.b

the Local Health Board is satisfied that the disqualification, suspension or,
as the case may be, the conviction does not make that person unsuitable to be—

6.3.b.i

a contractor,

6.3.b.ii

a partner, in the case of a contract with two or more persons practising in
partnership, or

6.3.b.iii

in the case of a company limited by shares—

6.3.b.iii.aa

a person who legally or beneficially owns a share in the company, or

6.3.b.iii.bb

a director or secretary of the company.

6.4

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(c), where a person has been employed as a
member of a health care profession, any subsequent employment must also be as
a member of that profession.

6.5

In this regulation, “ contractor ” includes a person with whom the Local
Health Board is proposing to enter into a contract with.

#### Notice of conditions not being met and reasons


7

7.1

Where the Local Health Board considers that the conditions specified in
regulations   5 and 6 for entering into a contract are not met, it must give
notice in writing to the person or persons intending to enter into the
contract of—

7.1.a

its view and the reasons for that view, and

7.1.b

the right of appeal under regulation 8.

7.2

The Local Health Board must also give notice in writing of its view and the
reasons for that view to any person who both legally and beneficially owns a
share in, or who is a director or secretary of, a company that is given notice
under paragraph (1) in any case where its reason for the decision relates to
such a person.

#### Right of appeal


8

A person who has been given a notice by the Local Health Board under
regulation 7(1) may appeal to the First-tier Tribunal against the decision of
the Local Health Board that the conditions in regulation 5 or 6 are not met.

### Pre-contract dispute resolution


#### Pre-contract disputes


9

9.1

Except where both parties to the prospective contract are health service
bodies (in which case section 7  of   the Act (NHS contracts) applies) if, in
the course of negotiations intending to lead to a contract, the prospective
parties to that contract are unable to agree on a particular term of the
contract, either party may refer the dispute to the Welsh Ministers to
consider and determine the matter.

9.2

Disputes referred to the Welsh Ministers in accordance with paragraph (1) or
section 7 of the Act must be considered and determined in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 106(3) to (14) and 107(1) of Schedule 3, and
paragraph (3) (where it applies) of this regulation.

9.3

In the case of dispute referred to the Welsh Ministers under paragraph (1),
the determination—

9.3.a

may specify the terms to be included in the proposed contract,

9.3.b

may require the Local Health Board to proceed with the proposed contract, but
may not require the proposed contractor to proceed with the proposed contract,
and

9.3.c

is binding upon the prospective parties to the contract.

### Health service body status


#### Health service body status: election


10

10.1

A person who proposes to enter into a contract with a Local Health Board (“a
proposed contractor”) may elect, by giving notice in writing to the Local
Health Board prior to entering into the contract, to be regarded as a health
service body for the purposes of section 7 of the Act.

10.2

An election made by a proposed contractor under paragraph (1) has effect
beginning with the date on which the contract in entered into.

10.3

If, by virtue of paragraph (1) a proposed contractor elects to be regarded as
a health service body, the nature of, or any rights or liabilities arising
under, any other contract previously entered into by that proposed contractor
with a health service body before the date of that election remains
unaffected.

10.4

Paragraph (5) applies where—

10.4.a

a contractor who is an individual medical practitioner enters, or two or more
persons practising in a partnership enter, into a contract with the Local
Health Board, and

10.4.b

that contractor is to be regarded as a health service body in accordance with
paragraph (1).

10.5

Subject to regulation 11, the contractor is to be regarded as a health service
body for the purposes of section 7 of the Act (NHS contracts) for as long as
that contract continues irrespective of any change in—

10.5.a

the partners comprising the partnership,

10.5.b

the status of the contractor from that of an individual medical practitioner
to that of a partnership, or

10.5.c

the status of the contractor from that of a partnership to that of an
individual medical practitioner.

#### Health service body status: variation of contracts


11

11.1

A contractor may at any time request in writing a variation of the contract to
include in, or remove from, the contract provision to the effect that the
contract is an NHS contract and, if it does so—

11.1.a

the Local Health Board must agree to the variation, and

11.1.b

the procedure specified in regulation 27 and Part 11 of Schedule 3 for the
variation of contracts applies.

11.2

If, by virtue of a request under paragraph (1), the contractor is to be
regarded as a health service body any rights or liabilities under any other
contract with a health service body entered into by the contractor before the
date on which the contractor is so regarded remain unaffected.

11.3

Where the Local Health Board agrees to the variation to the contract, the
contractor must—

11.3.a

be regarded, or

11.3.b

subject to regulation 12, cease to be regarded,

as a health service body for the purposes of section 7 of the Act beginning
with the date that the variation is to take effect pursuant to regulation  27
and Part 11 of Schedule 3.

#### Cessation of health service body status


12

12.1

A contractor ceases to be a health service body for the purposes of section 7
of the Act (NHS contracts) if the contract terminates.

12.2

Where, by virtue of paragraph (1), a contractor ceases to be a health service
body in relation to a contract (“the relevant contract”), the contractor is to
continue to be regarded as a health service body for the purposes of any other
NHS contract to which it became a party between the date on which it became a
health service body in relation to the relevant contract and the date on which
it ceased to be regarded as a health service body for the purposes of that
contract (but it ceases to be a health service body for the purposes of such
other NHS contract on the termination of that contract).

12.3

Where—

12.3.a

a contractor ceases to be regarded as a health service body in relation to a
contract by reason of either paragraph (1) or a variation of the contract by
virtue of regulation 11(1), and

12.3.b

the contractor or the Local Health Board—

12.3.b.i

has referred any matter to the NHS dispute resolution procedure before the
contractor ceases to be a health service body, or

12.3.b.ii

refers any matter that occurred during the period when the contractor was
regarded as a health service body to the NHS dispute resolution procedure, in
accordance with paragraph 106 of Schedule 3, after it ceases to be a health
service body,

the contractor is to continue to be regarded as a health service body (and
accordingly the contract is to continue to be regarded as an NHS contract) for
the purposes of the consideration and determination of the dispute.

12.4

Where a contractor continues to be regarded as a health service body by virtue
of   paragraph (3)   for the purposes of the NHS dispute resolution procedure,
the contractor ceases to be regarded as a health service body for those
purposes on the conclusion of that procedure.

### Contracts: required terms


#### Parties to the contract


13

A contract must specify—

13.a

the names of the parties to the contract,

13.b

in the case of each party to the contract, the address to which official
correspondence and notices should be sent, and

13.c

in the case of a party to the contract which is a partnership—

13.c.i

the names of the partners,

13.c.ii

whether or not the partnership is a limited partnership, and

13.c.iii

in the case of a limited partnership, the status of each partner as a general
or limited partner.

#### Health service contract


14

If, by virtue of regulation 10 or 11, a contractor is to be regarded as a
health service body, the contract must state that it is an NHS contract.

#### Contracts with individuals practising in partnership


15

Where a contract is with two or more individuals practising in partnership—

15.a

the contract is to be treated as made with the partnership as it is from time
to time constituted, and the contract must make specific provision to this
effect; and

15.b

the terms of the contract must require the contractor to ensure that any
person who becomes a partner in the partnership after the contract has come
into force is automatically bound by the contract whether by virtue of a
partnership agreement or otherwise.

#### Duration


16

16.1

Except in the circumstances specified in paragraph (2), a contract must
provide for it to subsist until it is terminated in accordance with the terms
of the contract or by virtue of the operation of any other legal provision.

16.2

The circumstances referred to in paragraph (1) are that the Local Health Board
wishes to enter into a temporary contract for a period not exceeding 24 months
for the provision of services to former patients of a contractor, following
the termination of that contractor’s contract.

16.3

Either party to a prospective contract to which paragraph (2) applies may, if
it wishes to do so, invite the Local Medical Committee for the area of the
Local Health Board to participate in the negotiations intending to lead to
such a contract.

#### Unified services


17

17.1

For the purposes of section 43(1) of the Act (requirement to provide certain
primary medical services), the services which must, except in circumstances
where regulation  18(7)  or paragraph 124 of Schedule 3 applies, be provided
under a   GMS   contract (“unified services”) are the services described in
paragraphs  (3) ,  (5) ,  (6) ,  (7)  and  (9) , and Schedule 2, during the
period specified in paragraph  (2) .

17.2

The period specified in this paragraph is, in the case of—

17.2.a

paragraphs  (3) ,  (5)  and  (6) , at all times within core hours as is
appropriate to meet the reasonable needs of   the contractor’s   patients, and

17.2.b

paragraphs  (7)  and  (9) , at all times within core hours.

17.3

The services described in this paragraph are services required for the
management of a contractor’s registered patients and temporary residents who
are or believe themselves to be—

17.3.a

ill, with conditions from which recovery is generally expected,

17.3.b

terminally ill, or

17.3.c

suffering from chronic disease,

delivered in the manner determined by the contractor’s practice after
consideration of relevant nationally agreed clinical guidance or pathways and
in discussion with the patient.

17.4

For the purposes of paragraph (3)—

“ disease ” (“ clefyd ”) means a disease included in the list of three-
character categories contained in the latest publication of the International
Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems, and “
management ” (“ rheoli ”) includes— offering consultation and, where
appropriate, physical examination for the purpose of identifying the need, if
any, for treatment or further investigation, and the making available of such
treatment or further investigation as is necessary and appropriate, including
the referral of the patient for other services under the Act and liaison with
other health care professionals involved in the patient’s treatment and care.

17.5

The services described in this paragraph are the provision of appropriate
ongoing treatment and care to all of the contractor’s registered patients and
temporary residents taking into account their specific needs including—

17.5.a

advice in connection with the patient’s health and relevant health promotion
advice, and

17.5.b

the referral of a patient for services under the Act,

together with the provision of the services specified in paragraph (6).

17.6

The services   specified   in paragraph (5) are—

17.6.a

cervical screening services,

17.6.b

child health surveillance services,

17.6.c

childhood vaccinations and immunisation services,

17.6.d

contraceptive services,

17.6.e

maternity medical services,

17.6.f

minor surgery services, and

17.6.g

vaccine and immunisation services.

17.7

The services described in this paragraph are primary medical services required
for the immediately necessary treatment of any person to whom the contractor
has been requested to provide treatment owing to an accident or emergency at
any place in its practice area.

17.8

In paragraph (7), “ emergency ” includes any medical emergency whether or not
related to services provided under the contract.

17.9

The services described in this paragraph are primary medical services required
for the immediately necessary treatment of any person falling within paragraph
(10) who requests such treatment for the period specified in paragraph (11).

17.10

This paragraph applies to a person if—

17.10.a

that person’s application for inclusion in the contractor’s list of patients
has been refused in accordance with paragraph 26 of Schedule 3 and that person
is not registered with another provider of unified services (or their
equivalent) in the area of the Local Health Board,

17.10.b

that person’s application for acceptance as a temporary resident has been
rejected in accordance with paragraph 26 of Schedule 3, or

17.10.c

that person is present in the contractor’s practice area for less than 24
hours.

17.11

The period specified in this paragraph is, in the case of a person to whom—

17.11.a

paragraph (10)(a) applies, 14 days beginning with the date on which that
person’s application was refused or until that person has been subsequently
registered elsewhere for the provision of unified services (or their
equivalent), whichever occurs first,

17.11.b

paragraph (10)(b) applies, 14 days beginning with the date on which that
person’s application was rejected or until that person has been subsequently
accepted elsewhere as a temporary resident, whichever occurs first, and

17.11.c

paragraph (10)(c) applies, 24 hours or such shorter period as the person is
present in the contractor’s practice area.

#### Services: general


18

18.1

A contract must specify—

18.1.a

the services to be provided,

18.1.b

subject to paragraph  (4) , the address of each of the premises to be used by
the contractor or any sub-contractor for the provision of such services,

18.1.c

the persons to whom such services are to be provided,

18.1.d

the area (the contractor’s “practice area”) as respects which persons resident
in it are, subject to any other terms of the contract relating to patient
registration, entitled to—

18.1.d.i

register with the contractor, or

18.1.d.ii

seek acceptance by the contractor as a temporary resident, and

18.1.e

whether, beginning with the date on which the contract comes into force, the
contractor’s list of patients is open or closed.

18.2

A contract must also—

18.2.a

contain a term which requires the contractor to—

18.2.a.i

make appointments for unified services available to its patients for such
proportion of the core hours on each working day as is appropriate to meet the
reasonable needs of those patients,

18.2.a.ii

have in place arrangements for its patients to access unified services
throughout the core hours in case of emergency,

18.2.a.iii

ensure that all practice premises, other than any practice premises specified
in paragraph  (3) , are open and physically accessible to patients—

18.2.a.iii.aa

at all times between 8.30am and 6.00pm on each working day, and

18.2.a.iii.bb

for such other periods in core hours as may be required to enable the
contractor to comply with the requirements in regulation  17 , regulation  18
and Schedule 3, and

18.2.b

state the period (if any) for which any services, other than unified services,
are to be provided.

18.3

The practice premises specified in this paragraph are those for which the
Local Health Board has agreed, in writing with the contractor, more limited
opening hours because the practice premises are not one of the contractor’s
main sites.

18.4

The premises referred to in paragraph (1)(b) do not include—

18.4.a

the homes of patients, or

18.4.b

any other premises where services are provided on an emergency basis.

18.5

Where, on the date on which the contract is signed, the Local Health Board is
not satisfied that all or any of the premises specified in accordance with
paragraph (1)(b) meet the requirements set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 3,
the contract must include a plan, drawn up jointly by the Local Health Board
and the contractor, which specifies—

18.5.a

the steps taken by the contractor to bring the premises up to the relevant
standard,

18.5.b

any financial support that may be available from the Local Health Board, and

18.5.c

the timescale in which the steps referred to in sub-paragraph (a) are to be
taken.

18.6

Where, in accordance with paragraph (1)(e), the contract specifies that the
contractor’s list of patients is closed the contract must also specify in
relation to that closure each of the items listed in paragraph 39(2) of
Schedule 3.

18.7

The Local Health Board may, in exceptional circumstances or for protected
learning time, give prior written agreement for contractors to temporarily
reduce the hours during which they provide unified services on a working day,
subject to the contractor having in place arrangements for its patients to
maintain access to unified services throughout the core hours on that working
day in case of emergency.

#### Certificates


19

19.1

A contract must contain a term which has the effect of requiring the
contractor to issue, free of charge to a patient or patient’s representative,
any medical certificate of a description prescribed in column 1 of Schedule 1,
which is reasonably required under, or for the purposes of, the enactments
specified in relation to the certificate in column 2 of that Schedule, subject
to paragraph (2).

19.2

A certificate must not be issued where, for the condition to which the
certificate relates, the patient is—

19.2.a

being attended to by a medical practitioner who is not—

19.2.a.i

employed or engaged by the contractor,

19.2.a.ii

in the case of a contract with two or more persons practising in a
partnership, one of those persons, or

19.2.a.iii

in the case of a contract with a company limited by shares, one of the persons
legally or beneficially owning shares in that company, or

19.2.b

not being treated by or under the supervision of a health care professional.

19.3

The exception in paragraph (2)(a) does not apply where the certificate is
issued in accordance with—

19.3.a

regulation 2(1) of the Social Security (Medical Evidence) Regulations 1976
(evidence of incapacity for work, limited capability for work and
confinement), or

19.3.b

regulation 2(1) of the Statutory Sick Pay (Medical Evidence) Regulations 1985
(medical information).

#### Finance


20

20.1

The contract must contain a term which has the effect of requiring payments to
be made under the contract promptly and in accordance with—

20.1.a

the terms of the contract, and

20.1.b

any other conditions relating to payment contained in directions given by the
Welsh Ministers under section 12 (exercise of functions) or section 45 of the
Act (GMS contracts: payments).

20.2

The contract must contain a term to the effect that where, in accordance with
directions given by the Welsh Ministers under section 12 (exercise of
functions) or section 45 (GMS contracts: payments) of the Act, the Local
Health Board is required to make a payment to a contractor under a contract
but subject to conditions, those conditions must be a term of the contract.

20.3

The obligation referred to in paragraph (1) is subject to any right the Local
Health Board may have to set off against any amount payable to the contractor
under the contract any amount—

20.3.a

that is owed by the contractor to the Local Health Board under the contract;
or

20.3.b

that the Local Health Board may withhold from the contractor in accordance
with the terms of the contract or any applicable provisions contained in
directions given by the Welsh Ministers under section 45 of the Act.

#### Fees, charges and financial interests


21

21.1

The contract must contain terms relating to fees, charges and financial
interests which have the same effect as those set out in paragraphs (2) to
(9).

21.2

The contractor must not, either for itself or through any other person, demand
or accept from any of its patients a fee or other remuneration for its own
benefit or for the benefit of another person in respect of—

21.2.a

the provision of any treatment whether under the contract or otherwise, or

21.2.b

any prescription or repeatable prescription for any drug, medicine or
appliance,

except in the circumstances set out in regulation 22.

21.3

The contractor must not, either for itself or through any other person, demand
or accept from any of its patients a fee or other remuneration for its own
benefit or for the benefit of another person, for the completion, in relation
to the patient’s mental health, of—

21.3.a

the debt and mental health evidence form, or

21.3.b

any examination of the patient or of the patient’s medical record in order to
complete the form, the purpose of which is to assist creditors in deciding
what action to take where the debtor has a mental health problem.

21.4

The contractor must not, either for itself or through any other person, demand
or accept from any of its patients a fee or other remuneration for its own
benefit or for the benefit of another person, for the preparation or provision
of—

21.4.a

evidence that the individual is, or is at risk of being, a victim of domestic
abuse which is intended to support an application by the individual for civil
legal services, or

21.4.b

any other evidence that the individual is, or is at risk of being, a victim of
domestic abuse which is of a description specified in regulations made by the
Welsh Ministers or Secretary of State.

21.5

Subject to paragraph (6), where—

21.5.a

a person—

21.5.a.i

applies to a contractor for the provision of unified services, and

21.5.a.ii

claims to be on that contractor’s list of patients, and

21.5.b

the contractor has reasonable doubts about that person’s claim,

the contractor must give any necessary treatment to that person and may demand
and accept from that person a reasonable fee in accordance with regulation
22(e) .

21.6

Where—

21.6.a

a person from whom the contractor has received a fee under regulation  22(e)
applies to the Local Health Board for a refund within 14 days beginning with
the date of the payment of the fee (or within such longer period not exceeding
4 weeks as the Local Health Board may allow if it is satisfied that the
failure to apply within 14 days was reasonable); and

21.6.b

the Local Health Board is satisfied that that person was on the contractor’s
list of patients when the treatment was given,

the Local Health Board may recover the amount of the fee from the contractor,
by deduction from the contractor’s remuneration or otherwise, and must pay the
amount recovered to the person who paid the fee.

21.7

The contractor must in the provision of services to patients under the
contract—

21.7.a

provide information regarding services it provides otherwise than under the
contract only where appropriate and in accordance with the restriction on
advertising private services in paragraph 134 of Schedule 3,

21.7.b

where it does provide such information, ensure that the information provided
is fair and accurate, and

21.7.c

where the other services are available to the patient as part of the health
service established under section 1(1) of the Act (Welsh Ministers’ duty to
promote health service), to inform the patient—

21.7.c.i

that the services are so available,

21.7.c.ii

of any charge that applies to that health service and, if no such charge
applies, that the service is free, and

21.7.c.iii

how to access that health service.

21.8

The contractor must in making a decision—

21.8.a

to refer a patient for other services under the Act, or

21.8.b

to prescribe any drug, medicine or appliance to a patient,

make that decision without regard to its own financial interests.

21.9

The contractor must not inform patients that any prescription for any drug,
medicine or appliance must be dispensed only by the contractor or by a person
with whom the contractor is associated.

#### Circumstances in which fees and charges may be made


22

The contractor may demand or accept (directly or indirectly) a fee or other
remuneration—

22.a

from any statutory body for services rendered for the purposes of that body’s
statutory functions;

22.b

from any body, employer or school for—

22.b.i

a routine medical examination of persons for whose welfare the body, employer
or school is responsible, or

22.b.ii

examination of such persons for the purpose of advising the body, employer or
school of any administrative action they might take;

22.c

for treatment which is not primary medical services or otherwise required
under the contract and which is given—

22.c.i

at accommodation made available in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
11 of Schedule 5 to the Act (accommodation and services for private patients),
or

22.c.ii

in a registered nursing home which is not providing services under the Act,

if, in either case, the person administering the treatment is serving on the
staff of a hospital providing services under the Act as a specialist providing
treatment of the kind the patient requires and if, within 7 days of giving the
treatment, the contractor or the person providing the treatment supplies the
Local Health Board, on a form provided by the Local Health Board for that
purpose, with such information as the Local Health Board may require;

22.d

under section 158 of the Road Traffic Act 1988 (payment for emergency
treatment of traffic casualties);

22.e

when the contractor treats a patient under regulation  21(5) , in which case
the contractor is entitled to demand and accept a reasonable fee (recoverable
in certain circumstances under regulation  21(6)  for any treatment given, if
the contractor gives the patient a receipt;

22.f

for attending and examining (but not otherwise treating) a patient—

22.f.i

at a police station, at the patient’s request, in connection with possible
criminal proceedings against the patient;

22.f.ii

for the purpose of creating a medical report or certificate, at the request of
a commercial, educational or not-for-profit organisation;

22.f.iii

for the purpose of creating a medical report required in connection with an
actual or potential claim for compensation by the patient;

22.g

for treatment consisting of an immunisation for which no remuneration is
payable by the Local Health Board and which is requested in connection with
travel abroad;

22.h

for a medical examination—

22.h.i

to enable a decision to be made whether or not it is inadvisable on medical
grounds for a person to wear a seat belt, or

22.h.ii

for the purpose of creating a report—

22.h.ii.aa

relating to a road traffic accident or criminal assault, or

22.h.ii.bb

that offers an opinion as to whether a patient is fit to travel;

22.i

for testing the sight of a person to whom none of paragraphs (a), (b) or (c)
of section 71(2) of the Act (arrangements for general ophthalmic services)
applies (including by reason of regulations under   section   71(8) and (9) of
the Act).

#### Activity and Appointment Data


23

23.1

A contract must contain a term requiring contractors to—

23.1.a

maintain their mapped appointments in the relevant section of the Primary Care
Information Portal;

23.1.b

review their submission data at least once a month;

23.1.c

ensure the mapped categories are up-to-date; and

23.1.d

ensure their server is at all times switched on, maintained and available to
enable the relevant software to extract the data.

23.2

The activity and appointment data across the GP Collaborative must be
discussed at GP Collaborative meetings by the authorised representatives from
the member practices comprising the GP Collaborative, with the aim of
developing measures across those member practices to manage demand and
standardise good practice and, where applicable, data quality.

#### Dataset and  

24

A contract must contain a term requiring contractors to provide data, where
applicable, in accordance with the business rules utilised within the
Assurance Framework.

#### Contract assurance


25

25.1

A contract must contain, in addition to the requirements in Schedule 3, a term
requiring contractors to engage with the Local Health Board in the processes
outlined in the latest published Assurance Framework by—

25.1.a

providing returns and data, or facilitating the supply of data, as required
for management of the contract and to satisfy contract assurance requirements,

25.1.b

as required by the Assurance Framework, engaging with the Local Health Board
in formal contract and governance practice review processes,

25.1.c

following each formal contract and governance practice review, producing a
Practice Contract and Governance Framework Response Plan to address within an
agreed period any concerns raised by the Local Health Board, and

25.1.d

if concerns need to be addressed through the escalation ladder levels of the
Assurance Framework, working positively with the Local Health Board to resolve
concerns.

25.2

A contract must contain a term requiring the Local Health Board to follow the
processes and take account of the principles outlined in the latest published
Assurance Framework by—

25.2.a

using the Assurance Framework’s nationally agreed indicators together with the
self-reported assessment from the contractor, to identify the priorities in
the contract assurance and governance process,

25.2.b

determining the nature and depth of the formal contract and governance
practice review taking account of the priorities identified in the contract
assurance and governance process,

25.2.c

engaging and working positively with the contractor to resolve concerns,

25.2.d

giving verbal feedback to the contractor during the visit, including any
requirements for the contractor to address any immediate concerns,

25.2.e

sending written feedback in a Contract and Governance Visit Report to the
contractor within 20 working days of the visit,

25.2.f

evaluating a Practice Contract and Governance Framework Response Plan within
20 working days of receipt,

25.2.g

agreeing any date for follow up with the contractor, including to review
whether any immediate concerns had been addressed satisfactorily, and

25.2.h

notifying the contractor if concerns need to be addressed through use of the
escalation ladder levels of the Assurance Framework.

#### Sub-contracting


26

A contract must contain terms which prevent a contractor from sub-contracting
any of its obligations under the contract in relation to clinical matters, or
non-clinical matters directly affecting patients, except in the circumstances
provided for by paragraph 76 of Schedule 3.

#### Variation of contracts


27

27.1

Subject to paragraph (2), a variation of, or amendment to, the contract may
only be made in the circumstances provided for in Part 11 of Schedule 3.

27.2

Paragraph (1) does not prevent a variation of, or amendment to, a contract in
the circumstances provided for in paragraphs 76(8), 109, 110, 111 and 124 of
Schedule 3.

#### Termination of a contract


28

28.1

A contract may only be terminated as provided for by Part 11 of Schedule 3.

28.2

A contract must make suitable provision for the arrangements which are to have
effect on termination of the contract, including the consequences (whether
financial or otherwise) of the contract ending.

28.3

The provisions dealing with the financial consequences of termination must
include at least provisions having the effect specified in   paragraphs (4) to
(8)   and must provide for those provisions to survive the termination of the
contract.

28.4

Subject to   paragraphs (5) to (8) , the Local Health Board’s obligation to
make payments to the contractor in accordance with the contract ceases on the
date of termination of the contract.

28.5

On termination of the contract or termination for any reason, the Local Health
Board must perform a reconciliation of the payments made by the Local Health
Board to the contractor and the extent to which the contractor has performed
the obligations under the contract to which those payments   relate. The
Local Health Board must also, in the event that the contractor has terminated
the contract pursuant to paragraph 114 of Part 11 of Schedule 3 but has not
performed its obligations under the contract for the duration of the notice
period (or such shorter period as the Local Health Board and contractor have
agreed in writing), be entitled to reflect in the reconciliation any
additional costs that the Local Health Board has incurred in securing
alternative services for the duration of that notice period  ....

28.6

The Local Health Board must serve the contractor with written details of the
reconciliation as soon as reasonably practicable, and in any event no later
than 28 days after the termination of the contract.

28.7

If the contractor disputes the accuracy of the reconciliation, the contractor
may refer the dispute to the NHS dispute resolution procedure within 28 days
beginning on the date on which the Local Health Board served the contractor
with written details of the reconciliation. That determination of the dispute
is binding on the parties.

28.8

Each party must pay the other any monies due within 3 months of the date on
which the Local Health Board served the contractor with written details of the
reconciliation, or the conclusion of the NHS dispute resolution procedure, as
the case may be.

28.9

The provisions dealing with the non-financial consequences of termination must
include at least the provisions in paragraphs  (10)  and  (11)  and must
provide for those provisions to survive the termination of the contract.

28.10

The contract must provide that the termination of the contract, for whatever
reason, is without prejudice to the accrued rights of either party under the
contract.

28.11

The contract must provide that on termination of the contract for any reason,
the contractor must—

28.11.a

subject to the requirements of this paragraph (11) , cease performing any work
or carrying out any obligations under the contract,

28.11.b

co-operate with the Local Health Board to enable any outstanding matters under
the contract to be dealt with or concluded in a satisfactory manner,

28.11.c

co-operate with the Local Health Board to enable the contractor’s patients to
be transferred to one or more other contractors or providers of unified
services (or their equivalent), which must include—

28.11.c.i

providing reasonable information about individual patients, and

28.11.c.ii

delivering patient records

to such other appropriate person or persons as the Local Health Board
specifies, and

28.11.d

deliver up to the Local Health Board all property belonging to the Local
Health Board including all documents, forms, computer hardware and software,
drugs, appliances or medical equipment which may be in the contractor’s
possession or control.

#### Other contractual terms


29

29.1

A contract must, unless it is of a type or nature to which a particular
provision does not apply, contain, other terms which have, the same effect as
those specified in Schedule 3 except paragraphs 45(5) to (9), 46(5) to (17),
106(5) to (14), and 107.

29.2

The paragraphs specified in paragraph (1) have effect in relation to the
matters set out in those paragraphs.

### Functions of Local Medical Committees


30

30.1

The functions of a Local Medical Committee which are prescribed for the
purposes of section 54(7) of the Act (Local Medical Committees) are—

30.1.a

the consideration of any complaint made to it by any medical practitioner
against a medical practitioner specified in paragraph (2) providing services
under a contract in the relevant area involving any question of the efficiency
of those services,

30.1.b

the reporting of the outcome of the consideration of any such complaint to the
Local Health Board with whom the contract is held in cases where that
consideration gives rise to any concerns relating to the efficiency of
services provided under a contract,

30.1.c

the making of arrangements for the medical examination of a medical
practitioner specified in paragraph (2), where the contractor or the Local
Health Board is concerned that the medical practitioner is incapable of
adequately providing services under the contract and it so requests with the
agreement of the medical practitioner concerned, and

30.1.d

the consideration of the report of any medical examination arranged in
accordance with sub-paragraph (c) and the making of a written report as to the
capability of the medical practitioner of adequately providing services under
the contract to the medical practitioner concerned, the contractor and the
Local Health Board with whom the contractor holds a contract.

30.2

The medical practitioner referred to in paragraph (1)(a) and (c) is a medical
practitioner who is—

30.2.a

a contractor,

30.2.b

one of two or more persons practising in partnership which holds a contract,
or

30.2.c

both a legal and beneficial shareholder in a company limited by shares which
holds a contract.

30.3

In this regulation, “ the relevant area ” means the area for which the Local
Medical Committee is formed.

### General transitional provision and saving, consequential amendments and revocations


#### General transitional provision and saving


31

31.1

This regulation applies to—

31.1.a

the exercise by the Local Health Board of any of its functions under the 2004
Regulations before the commencement date, and

31.1.b

any rights or liabilities of the Local Health Board in respect of the exercise
of any of its functions under the 2004 Regulations.

31.2

Subject to paragraph (4), any act or omission concerning a contract to which
the 2004 Regulations applied immediately before the commencement date in
respect of any of the matters specified in paragraph (1), is to be treated as
an act or omission concerning a contract to which these Regulations apply.

31.3

Subject to paragraph (4), anything which, before the commencement date, is
done or is in the process of being done under the 2004 Regulations concerning
a contract to which the 2004 Regulations applied immediately before that date
in respect of any of the matters specified in paragraph (1), is to be treated
as if done or in the process of being done under these Regulations.

31.4

Notwithstanding paragraphs (2) and (3) and the revocations provided for in
Schedule 6, where the 2004 Regulations contain a provision for which there is
no equivalent provision in these Regulations (“ the relevant provision ”), the
2004 Regulations, as they were in force immediately before the commencement
date, are to continue to apply to the extent necessary for the purposes of—

31.4.a

preserving any rights conferred or liabilities accrued by or under the
relevant provision, or

31.4.b

the assessment or determination of any rights or liabilities arising under or
in accordance with the relevant provision.

31.5

In this regulation—

“ the commencement date ” (“ y dyddiad cychwyn ”) means the date on which
these Regulations come into force;  ... “ contract ” (“ contract ”) includes
any contract to which the 2004 Regulations applied immediately before the
commencement date under which medical services were provided before the
commencement date (whether or not such services continued to be provided after
that date).

#### Consequential amendments


32

Schedule 5 makes provision in respect of the amendments to secondary
legislation which are consequential upon the coming into force of these
Regulations.

#### Revocations


33

Schedule 6 makes provision in respect of the revocation of the enactments
specified.

Eluned Morgan Minister for Health and Social Services, one of the Welsh
Ministers 1 September 2023

List of Prescribed Medical Certificates

Regulation 19

Table Description of medical certificate Enactment under or for the purpose of
which certificate required 1. To support a claim or to obtain payment either
personally or by proxy; to prove incapacity to work or for self-support for
the purposes of an award by the Secretary of State; or to enable proxy to draw
pensions etc. Naval and Marine Pay and Pensions Act 1865  (c. 73)   Air Force
(Constitution) Act 1917  (c. 51)   Pensions (Navy, Army, Air Force and
Mercantile Marine) Act 1939  (c. 83)   Personal Injuries (Emergency
Provisions) Act 1939  (c. 82)   Social Security Administration Act 1992  (c.
5)   Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992  (c. 4)   Social
Security Act 1998  (c. 14)   2. To establish pregnancy for the purpose of
obtaining welfare foods Section 13 of the Social Security Act 1988 (benefits
under schemes for improving nutrition: pregnant women, mothers and children)
3. To secure registration of still-birth Section 11 of the Births and Deaths
Registration Act 1953  (c. 20)   (special provision as to registration of
still-birth) 4. To enable payment to be made to an institution or other person
in case of mental disorder of persons entitled to payment from public funds
Section 142 of the Mental Health Act 1983  (c. 20)   (pay, pensions etc., of
mentally disordered persons) 5. To establish unfitness for jury service Juries
Act 1974  (c. 23)   6. To support late application for reinstatement in civil
employment or notification of non-availability to take up employment owing to
sickness   Reserve Forces (Safeguard of Employment) Act  1985 (c. 22)   7. To
enable a person to be registered as an absent voter on grounds of physical
incapacity Representation of the People Act 1983  (c. 2)   8. To support
applications for certificates conferring exemption from charges in respect of
drugs National Health Service Act 2006  (c. 41)   9. To support a claim by or
on behalf of a severely mentally impaired person for exemption from liability
to pay the Council Tax or eligibility for a discount in respect of the amount
of Council Tax payable Local Government Finance Act 1992  (c. 28)

Further details about specific Unified Services

Regulation 17

##### Cervical screening


1

1.1

A contractor must—

1.1.a

provide all the services described in sub-paragraph (2), and

1.1.b

make the records specified in sub-paragraph (4) within the patient’s record
kept in accordance with paragraph  78  of Schedule 3.

1.2

The services referred to in sub-paragraph (1)(a) are—

1.2.a

the provision of any necessary information and advice to assist relevant
patients in making an informed decision as to participation in the Cervical
Screening Wales Programme undertaken by   Public Health Wales   (the
“Programme”),

1.2.b

performing cervical screening tests on people who have agreed to participate
in that Programme,

1.2.c

arranging for people to be informed of the results of their test, and

1.2.d

ensuring that test results are followed up as clinically appropriate.

1.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraph   (2)(a)   “ relevant patients ” means
patients on the contractor’s patient list who have been identified by   Public
Health Wales   as suitable candidates for a cervical screening test.

1.4

The records referred to in   sub-paragraph   (1)(b) are—

1.4.a

an accurate record of the cervical screening test undertaken, and

1.4.b

the result of any test undertaken, and

1.4.c

any clinical follow up requirements.

##### Child health surveillance


2

2.1

A contractor must in respect of any child under the age of 5 for whom it has
responsibility under the contract—

2.1.a

provide all the services described in sub-paragraph (2), other than any
examination so described which a parent refuses to allow their child to
undergo, until the date on which the child attains 5 years of age, and

2.1.b

maintain the records specified in sub-paragraph (3).

2.2

The services referred to in sub-paragraph (1)(a) are—

2.2.a

the monitoring of the health, well-being and physical, mental and social
development (which together are referred to in this paragraph as “ development
”) of a child under 5 years of age with a view to detecting any deviations
from normal development—

2.2.a.i

by the consideration of any information concerning the child received by or on
behalf of the contractor, and

2.2.a.ii

on any occasion when the child is examined or observed by or on behalf of the
contractor (whether pursuant to paragraph (b) or otherwise);

2.2.b

the examination of a child at a frequency that has been agreed with the Local
Health Board in accordance with the nationally agreed evidence based programme
set out in the latest clinical guidance in relation to the Newborn and Infant
Physical Examination Cymru, and the Local Health Board or the contractor may
seek the views of the relevant Local Medical Committee prior to reaching
agreement on the appropriate frequency of such examinations.

2.3

The records specified for the purposes of sub-paragraph (1)(b) must be an
accurate record of—

2.3.a

the development of the child while under 5 years of age, compiled as soon as
is reasonably practicable following the first examination of that child and,
where appropriate, amended following each subsequent examination, and

2.3.b

the responses (if any) to offers made to the child’s parent for the child to
undergo any examination referred to in sub-paragraph (2)(b).

##### Childhood vaccinations and immunisations


3

3.1

A contractor must comply with the requirements in sub-paragraphs (2) and (3).

3.2

The contractor must—

3.2.a

offer to provide to children  for whom the contractor has responsibility under
the contract   all vaccinations and immunisations of a type and in the
circumstances specified in the relevant Annex of the GMS Statement of
Financial Entitlements;

3.2.b

provide appropriate information and advice to patients and, where appropriate,
their parents, about such vaccinations and immunisations;

3.2.c

record in the patient’s record kept in accordance with paragraph 78 of
Schedule 3 any refusal of the offer referred to in paragraph (a);

3.2.d

where the offer is accepted, administer the vaccinations and immunisations and
include in the patient’s record kept in accordance with paragraph 78 of
Schedule 3—

3.2.d.i

the name of the person who gave consent to the vaccination or immunisation and
that person’s relationship to the patient,

3.2.d.ii

the batch numbers, expiry date and title of the vaccine,

3.2.d.iii

the date of administration,

3.2.d.iv

in a case where two vaccines are administered in close succession, the route
of administration and the injection site of each vaccine,

3.2.d.v

any contra-indications to the vaccination or immunisation, and

3.2.d.vi

any adverse reactions to the vaccination or immunisation.

3.3

The contractor must ensure that all staff involved in administering vaccines
are trained and their knowledge kept up to date in the recognition and initial
treatment of anaphylaxis.

##### Contraceptive services


4

A contractor must make available to all its patients who so request them,
those services described in sub-paragraphs (a) to (g)—

4.a

the giving of advice about the full range of contraceptive methods,

4.b

where appropriate, the medical examination of patients seeking such advice,

4.c

the treatment of such patients for contraceptive purposes and the prescribing
of contraceptive substances and appliances (excluding the fitting and
implanting of intrauterine devices and implants),

4.d

the giving of advice about emergency contraception and where appropriate, the
supplying or prescribing of emergency hormonal contraception or, where the
contractor has a conscientious objection to emergency contraception, prompt
referral to another provider of primary medical services who does not have
such conscientious objections,

4.e

the provision of advice and referral in cases of unplanned or unwanted
pregnancy, including advice about the availability of free pregnancy testing
in the practice area and, where appropriate, where the contractor has a
conscientious objection to the termination of pregnancy, prompt referral to
another provider of primary medical services who does not have such
conscientious objections,

4.f

the giving of initial advice about sexual health promotion and sexually
transmitted infections, and

4.g

the referral as necessary for specialist sexual health services, including
home testing or self-testing kits for sexually transmitted infections.

##### Maternity medical services


5

5.1

A contractor must provide all the necessary maternity medical services to—

5.1.a

patients who have been diagnosed as pregnant throughout the antenatal period;

5.1.b

patients and their babies throughout the postnatal period, other than neonatal
checks;

5.1.c

patients whose pregnancy has terminated as a result of miscarriage or abortion
or, where the contractor has a conscientious objection to the termination of
pregnancy, the contractor must promptly refer the patient to another provider
of primary medical services who does not have such conscientious objections.

5.2

In this paragraph—

“ antenatal period ” (“ cyfnod cynenedigol ”) means the period from the start
of the pregnancy to the onset of labour; “ maternity medical services ” (“
gwasanaethau meddygol mamolaeth ”) means— in relation to patients (other than
babies) all primary medical services relating to pregnancy, excluding intra
partum care; and in relation to babies, any primary medical services necessary
to their first 14 days of life; “ neonatal check ” (“ gwiriad newydd-anedig ”)
means the examination of the baby in the first month after birth; “ postnatal
period ” (“ cyfnod ôl-enedigol ”) means the period beginning with the
conclusion of delivery of the baby or the patient’s discharge from secondary
care services, whichever is the later, and ending with the 14th day after the
birth.

##### Minor surgery


6

A contractor must—

6.a

make available to patients, cryocautery, curettage and cautery of warts,
verrucae and other skin lesions where clinically appropriate, and

6.b

ensure that its record of any treatment provided under this paragraph
includes—

6.b.i

details of the minor surgery provided to the patient, and

6.b.ii

the consent of the patient to that treatment.

##### Vaccinations and immunisations


7

7.1

A contractor must—

7.1.a

offer to administer or provide to patients all vaccinations and immunisations
of a type and in the circumstances specified in the relevant Annex to the GMS
Statement of Financial Entitlements and that are funded under the global sum;

7.1.b

provide appropriate information and advice to patients and, where appropriate,
to the parents of patients, about such   vaccinations   and immunisations;

7.1.c

in relation to patients other than children and taking into account the
individual circumstances of the patient, consider whether—

7.1.c.i

immunisation ought to be administered by the contractor or by a health care
professional employed or engaged by the contractor, or

7.1.c.ii

a prescription form ought to be provided for the purpose of self-
administration by the patient of the immunisation;

7.1.d

record in the patient’s record any refusal of the offer mentioned in paragraph
(a);

7.1.e

where—

7.1.e.i

the offer mentioned in paragraph (a) is accepted, and

7.1.e.ii

in case of a patient who is not a child, the immunisation is to be
administered by the contractor or another health care professional,

administer the immunisations and record the immunisation information in the
patient’s record, using codes agreed by the Local Health Board for this
purpose;

7.1.f

where—

7.1.f.i

the offer mentioned in paragraph (a) is accepted, and

7.1.f.ii

in the case of a patient who is not a child, the immunisation is not to be
administered by the contractor or another health care professional,

issue a prescription form for the purposes of self-administration by the
patient.

7.2

For the purposes of this paragraph—

“ immunisation information ”  ...  means— either— the patient’s consent to
immunisation, or where another person consents to immunisation on behalf of
the patient, the name of the person who gave that consent and their
relationship to the patient; the batch number, expiry date and title of the
vaccine, the date of administration of the vaccine, where two vaccines are
administered by injections, in close succession, the route of administration
and the injection site of each vaccine, any contraindications to the vaccine,
and any adverse reactions to the vaccine.

7.3

The contractor must ensure that all staff involved in administering vaccines
are trained and their knowledge kept up to date in the recognition and initial
treatment of anaphylaxis.

8

For the purposes of paragraphs 1 to 7 “ a patient’s record ” means the record
which is kept in relation to a patient in accordance with paragraph 78 of
Schedule 3.

Other contractual terms

Regulation 29

##### Provision of services


###### Premises, facilities and equipment


1

1.1

The contractor must ensure that the premises used for the provision of
services under the contract—

1.1.a

are suitable for the delivery of those services,

1.1.b

are sufficient to meet the reasonable needs of the contractor’s patients, and

1.1.c

meet or exceed the minimum standards set out in directions issued by the Welsh
Ministers under the Act.

1.2

The requirement in sub-paragraph (1) is subject to any plan included in the
contract in accordance with regulation 18(5) which sets out steps to be taken
by the contractor to bring the premises up to the required standard.

1.3

In relation to each service it provides, the contractor must provide such
facilities and equipment as are necessary to enable it properly to perform
that service.

###### Telephone services


2

2.1

The contractor must not be a party to any contract or other arrangements under
which the number for telephone services to be used—

2.1.a

by patients to contact the practice for any purpose related to the contract,
or

2.1.b

by any other person to contact the practice in relation to services provided
as part of the health service,

starts with the digits 084, 087, 090 or 091 or consists of a personal number,
unless the service is provided free to the caller.

2.2

The contractor must ensure their telephone lines are staffed—

2.2.a

for the duration of core hours, unless any agreement has been reached between
the Local Health Board and the contractor pursuant to regulation 18(7) which
allows the use of an answer phone message for temporary periods, and

2.2.b

answered by appropriately qualified members of the contractor’s staff that are
located within the United Kingdom.

2.3

In this paragraph, “ personal number ” means a telephone number which starts
with the number 070 followed by a further 8 digits.

###### Cost of relevant calls


3

3.1

The contractor must not enter into, renew or extend a contract or other
arrangement for telephone services unless it is satisfied that, having regard
to the arrangement as a whole, persons are not going to have to pay more to
make relevant calls to the contractor’s practice than they would to make
equivalent calls to a geographical number.

3.2

In this paragraph—

“ geographical number ” (“ rhif daearyddol ”) means a number which has a
geographical area code as its prefix; “ relevant calls ” (“ galwadau
perthnasol ”) means— calls made by patients to the contractor’s practice for
any reason related to services provided under the contract, and calls made by
persons, other than patients, to the practice in relation to services provided
as part of the health service.

###### Access


4

4.1

The contractor must—

4.1.a

have a telephone system with a recording function for incoming and outgoing
lines, that   stacks   calls and allows for the analysis of call data,

4.1.b

have a telephone introduction message recorded bilingually in Welsh and
English that in total lasts no longer than 2 minutes,

4.1.c

ensure that patients and care homes can order repeatable prescriptions
digitally,

4.1.d

for the duration of core hours, ensure that patients can digitally request a
non-urgent appointment or a call back, and that the necessary governance
arrangements are in place for this process,

4.1.e

publicise information via the practice’s online resource on—

4.1.e.i

the access requirements specified in this paragraph  4 , and

4.1.e.ii

how patients can—

4.1.e.ii.aa

access the contractor’s services, and

4.1.e.ii.bb

request an urgent, routine and advanced consultation,

4.1.f

offer a same day consultation for—

4.1.f.i

children under 16 with acute presentations, and

4.1.f.ii

patients clinically triaged as requiring an urgent assessment,

4.1.g

offer pre-bookable appointments to take place during core hours; and

4.1.h

actively signpost patients to appropriate services—

4.1.h.i

available from the members of the contractor’s cluster,

4.1.h.ii

provided or commissioned by the Local Health Board, or

4.1.h.iii

available locally or nationally.

4.2

The contractor must self-declare quarterly that the requirements in sub-
paragraph (1) have been met and if requested be prepared to provide the
evidence to the Local Health Board as required.

###### Attendance at practice premises


5

5.1

The contractor must take steps to ensure that any patient who—

5.1.a

has not previously made an appointment, and

5.1.b

attends at the practice premises for unified services between 8.30am and
6.00pm on a working day,

is provided with such services by an appropriate health care professional on
that day.

5.2

Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply where—

5.2.a

it is more appropriate for the patient to be referred elsewhere for services
under the Act, or

5.2.b

the patient is then offered an appointment to attend again within a time which
is appropriate and reasonable having regard to all the circumstances and the
patient’s health would not thereby be jeopardised.

###### Attendance outside practice premises


6

6.1

Where the medical condition of a patient is such that, in the reasonable
opinion of the contractor—

6.1.a

attendance on the patient is required, and

6.1.b

it would be inappropriate for the patient to attend at the practice premises,

the contractor must provide services to that patient at whichever of the
places described in sub-paragraph (2) is in the contractor’s judgement the
most appropriate.

6.2

The places described in this sub-paragraph are—

6.2.a

the place recorded in the patient’s medical records as being the patient’s
last home address,

6.2.b

such other place as the contractor has informed the patient and the Local
Health Board is the place where the contractor has agreed to visit and treat
the patient, or

6.2.c

another place in the contractor’s practice area.

6.3

Nothing in this paragraph prevents the contractor from—

6.3.a

arranging for the referral of the patient without first seeing the patient, in
any case where the patient’s medical condition makes that course of action
appropriate, or

6.3.b

visiting the patient in circumstances where this paragraph does not place the
contractor under an obligation to do so.

###### Newly registered patients


7

7.1

Where a patient has been—

7.1.a

accepted on a contractor’s list of patients, or

7.1.b

assigned to that list by the Local Health Board,

the contractor must invite the patient to participate in a consultation either
at the contractor’s practice premises or, if the patient’s medical condition
so warrants, at one of the places referred to in paragraph 6(2).

7.2

An invitation under sub-paragraph (1) must be issued by the contractor before
the end of the period of 6 months beginning with the date of the acceptance of
the patient on, or assignment of the patient to, the contractor’s list of
patients.

7.3

Where a patient (or, where appropriate, in the case of a patient who is a
child, the child’s parent) agrees to participate in a consultation mentioned
in sub-paragraph (1) the contractor must during the course of that
consultation—

7.3.a

make such inquiries and undertake such examinations as appear to the
contractor to be appropriate in all the circumstances, and

7.3.b

for all newly registered patients who have attained the age of 16 years, with
the co-operation of the patient, complete the latest version of the national
minimum dataset questionnaire issued by the Welsh Ministers in order to secure
health screening information.

7.4

Nothing in this paragraph affects the contractor’s other obligations under the
contract in respect of the patient.

###### Patients not seen within 3 years


8

8.1

This paragraph applies where a registered patient who has attained the age of
16 years but has not attained the age of 75 years—

8.1.a

requests a consultation with the contractor, and

8.1.b

has not attended either a consultation with, or a clinic provided by, the
contractor within the period of 3 years prior to the date of the request.

8.2

The contractor must—

8.2.a

provide the patient with a consultation, and

8.2.b

during that consultation, make such inquiries and undertake such examinations
of the patient as the contractor considers appropriate in all the
circumstances.

8.3

Nothing in this paragraph affects the contractor’s other obligations under the
contract in respect of the patient.

###### Patients aged 75 years and over


9

9.1

Where a registered patient who requests a consultation—

9.1.a

has attained the age of 75 years, and

9.1.b

has not participated in a consultation within the year prior to the date of
the request,

the contractor must provide such a consultation during which it must make such
inquiries and undertake such examinations as it considers appropriate in all
the circumstances.

9.2

A consultation under sub-paragraph (1) must take place in the home of the
patient where, in the reasonable opinion of the contractor, it would be
inappropriate, as a result of the patient’s medical condition, for the patient
to attend at the practice premises.

9.3

Nothing in this paragraph affects the contractor’s other obligations under the
contract in respect of the patient.

###### Clinical reports


10

10.1

Where the contractor provides any clinical services, other than under a
private arrangement, to a patient who is not on its list of patients, the
contractor must, as soon as reasonably practicable, provide a clinical report
relating to the consultation, and any treatment provided to the patient, to
the Local Health Board.

10.2

The Local Health Board must send any report received under sub-paragraph (1)—

10.2.a

to the person with whom the patient is registered for the provision of unified
services or their equivalent, or

10.2.b

if the person referred to in paragraph (a) is not known to it, the Local
Health Board in whose area the patient is resident.

###### Storage of vaccines


11

The contractor must ensure that—

11.a

all vaccines are stored in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions,
and

11.b

all refrigerators in which vaccines are stored have a maximum/minimum
thermometer and that temperature readings are taken on all working days.

###### Infection control


12

The contractor must ensure that it has appropriate arrangements for infection
control and decontamination.

###### Duty of co-operation in relation to supplementary services


13

13.1

Where a contractor does not provide to its registered patients or to persons
whom it has accepted as temporary residents a particular supplementary service
it must comply with the requirements specified in sub-paragraph (2).

13.2

The requirements specified in this sub-paragraph are that the contractor must
in core hours—

13.2.a

co-operate, insofar as is reasonable, with any person responsible for the
provision of that service or those services, and

13.2.b

comply with any reasonable request for information from such a person or from
the Local Health Board relating to the provision of that service or those
services.

###### Duty of co-operation in relation to out of hours services


14

The contractor must—

14.a

ensure that any patient who contacts the contractor’s practice premises during
the out of hours period is provided with information about how to obtain
services during that period,

14.b

ensure that the clinical details of all out of hours consultations received
from the out of hours provider are reviewed by a clinician within the
contractor’s practice on the same working day as those details are received by
the practice or, exceptionally, on the next working day,

14.c

ensure that any information requests received from the out of hours provider
in respect of any out of hours consultations are responded to by a clinician
within the contractor’s practice on the same day as those requests are
received by the contractor’s practice, or on the next working day,

14.d

take all reasonable steps to comply with any systems which the out of hours
provider has in place to ensure the rapid, secure and effective transmission
of patient data in respect of out of hours consultations, and

14.e

agree with the out of hours provider a system for the rapid, secure and
effective transmission of information about registered patients who, due to
chronic disease or terminal illness, are predicted as more likely to present
themselves for treatment during the out of hours period.

###### Membership of a cluster


15

A contract must contain a term which requires the contractor to be a member of
a cluster.

###### Duty of co-operation: cluster working


16

16.1

A contractor must comply with the requirements in sub-paragraph (2) where
registered patients or temporary residents are provided with services by the
contractor’s cluster.

16.2

The requirements specified in this sub-paragraph are that the contractor must—

16.2.a

co-operate, in so far as is reasonable, with any person responsible for the
provision of the services,

16.2.b

comply in core hours with any reasonable request for information from such a
person or from the Local Health Board relating to the provision of the
services,

16.2.c

agree the mandate for the GP Collaborative representative at cluster meetings
and take account of feedback from those cluster meetings,

16.2.d

take reasonable steps to provide information to its registered patients about
the services, including information on how to access the services and any
changes to them, and

16.2.e

ensure engagement in the planning and delivery of local services, as agreed
within the cluster action plan, which includes suitable arrangements to enable
the sharing of data, where appropriate safeguards are met, to support the
delivery of the services and discussion of cluster funding and budgets.

16.3

In this paragraph, and in paragraphs 18 and 19, “ services ” means primary
medical services.

###### Membership of a GP Collaborative


17

17.1

A contract must contain a term which has the effect of requiring the
contractor to be a member of a GP Collaborative.

17.2

A contractor must—

17.2.a

appoint at least 1 health care professional with authority to act on the
contractor’s behalf in the dealings between the contractor and the GP
Collaborative to which the contractor belongs, and

17.2.b

attend at least 4 meetings of the GP Collaborative to which the contractor
belongs in each financial year (unless agreed otherwise in writing by the
Local Health Board), or appoint a senior practice clinician, or where
appropriate a senior administrator, employed by the practice to attend those
meetings and to act on the contractor’s behalf in those meetings.

###### Contribution to clusters and GP Collaboratives


18

A contractor must—

18.a

contribute relevant information, including demand and capacity planning, to
the cluster Integrated Medium Term Plan via the GP Collaborative, and the
contribution must include information on demand and capacity planning,

18.b

demonstrate how they have engaged in planning and delivery of local services
agreed within the GP Collaborative’s contribution to the cluster plan,
including evidence of wide partnership, multi-professional/multi-agency
working, and development of integrated services, and

18.c

contribute to delivering specific cluster-determined outcomes, including
engagement in planning of local initiatives through engagement with the
cluster via the GP Collaborative lead.

###### Demand and capacity


19

A contractor is required to engage with a GP Collaborative to assist the
collaborative in—

19.a

undertaking a population needs assessment of its patients,

19.b

analysing the current services available to the GP Collaborative population,
identifying any gaps in provision,

19.c

analysing the current numbers and skills of the workforce and its development
needs,

19.d

undertaking a measurement of local health needs as determined by the GP
Collaborative, and

19.e

providing evidence of the demand and capacity assessment undertaken which is
to be evidenced in the GP Collaborative Integrated Medium-Term Plan.

###### Cessation of service provision: information requests


20

Where a contractor ceases to provide a supplementary service to its patients
the contractor must comply with any reasonable request for information
relating to the provision of that service, or those services, made by the
Local Health Board or by any person with whom the Local Health Board intends
to enter into a contract for the provision of such services.

###### Welsh Language


21

21.1

Where the contractor provides medical services under the contract through the
medium of Welsh, it must notify the Local Health Board in writing.

21.2

The contractor must make available a Welsh language version of any document or
form for use by patients and/or members of the public, provided by the Local
Health Board.

21.3

Where the contractor displays a new sign or notice in connection with medical
services provided under the contract, the text on the sign or notice must be
in English and Welsh, and the contractor may utilise the translation service
offered by the Local Health Board for this purpose.

21.4

The contractor must encourage the wearing of a badge, provided by the Local
Health Board, by those delivering medical services under the contract who are
Welsh speaking, to convey that they are able to speak Welsh.

21.5

The contractor must encourage those delivering medical services under the
contract to utilise information and/or attend training courses and events
provided by the Local Health Board, so that they can develop—

21.5.a

an awareness of the Welsh language (including awareness of its history and its
role in Welsh culture), and

21.5.b

an understanding of how the Welsh language can be used when delivering medical
services under the contract.

21.6

The contractor must encourage those delivering medical services under the
contract to establish and record the Welsh or English language preference
expressed by or on behalf of a patient.

##### Patients


###### List of patients


22

22.1

The Local Health Board must prepare and keep up to date a list of the patients
who have been—

22.1.a

accepted by the contractor for inclusion in the contractor’s list of patients
under paragraphs 22 to 25 and who have not been subsequently removed from that
list under paragraphs  28  to  36 , and

22.1.b

assigned by the Local Health Board to the contractor’s list of patients under—

22.1.b.i

paragraph  43(1)(a) , or

22.1.b.ii

paragraph  43(1)(b)  (by virtue of a determination of the assessment panel
under paragraph  45(7)  which has not subsequently been overturned by a
determination by the Welsh Ministers under paragraph  46  or by a court).

22.2

The contractor must, upon receipt of a reasonable written request from the
Local Health Board—

22.2.a

take appropriate steps (including contacting patients where reasonably
necessary to confirm that their patient data is correct) as soon as is
reasonably practicable, to correct and update patient data held on the
practice’s computerised clinical systems, and where necessary register or
deregister patients to ensure that the patient list is accurate, and

22.2.b

provide information relating to its list of patients to the Local Health Board
as soon as is reasonably practicable and, in any event, no later than 30 days
from the date on which the request was received by the contractor, in order to
assist the Local Health Board in the exercise of its duties under sub-
paragraph (1).

###### Application for inclusion in a list of patients


23

23.1

Unless paragraph 26(1) applies, the contractor must, if the contractor’s list
of patients is open, accept an application for inclusion in that list of
patients made by or on behalf of any person whether or not resident in its
practice area or included, at the time of that application, in the list of
patients of another contractor or provider of primary medical services.

23.2

If the contractor’s list of patients is closed, the contractor may only accept
an application for inclusion in that list made by or on behalf of a person who
is an immediate family member of a registered patient whether or not that
person is resident in the contractor’s practice area or is included, at the
time of that application, in the list of patients of another contractor or
provider of primary medical services.

23.3

Subject to sub-paragraph (4), an application for inclusion in a contractor’s
list of patients must be made by the applicant, or a person authorised by the
applicant, submitting to the contractor an application form (including an
electronic application form). The contractor must not make proof of
identification or address a prerequisite for an applicant to be included in
the contractor’s list of patients (or make an application conditional upon the
production of such proof of identification or address).

23.4

An application may be made—

23.4.a

where the patient is a child, on behalf of the patient by—

23.4.a.i

either parent, or in the absence of both parents, the guardian or other adult
who has care of the child,

23.4.a.ii

a person duly authorised by a local authority to whose care the child has been
committed under the Children Act 1989 , or

23.4.a.iii

a person duly authorised by a voluntary organisation by which the child is
being accommodated under the provisions of the Children Act 1989, or

23.4.b

where the patient is an adult who lacks capacity to make the application, or
to authorise the application to be made on their behalf, by—

23.4.b.i

a relative of that person,

23.4.b.ii

the primary carer of that person,

23.4.b.iii

a donee of a lasting power of attorney granted by that person, or

23.4.b.iv

a deputy appointed for that person by the court under the provisions of the
Mental Capacity Act 2005 .

23.5

Where a contractor accepts an application for inclusion in the contractor’s
list of patients, the contractor must give notice in writing to the Local
Health Board of that acceptance as soon as practicable.

23.6

The Local Health Board must, on receipt of a notice given under sub-paragraph
(5)—

23.6.a

include the applicant in the contractor’s list of patients from the date on
which the notice is received, and

23.6.b

if it is the first time the applicant has been accepted as a registered
patient by (or assigned by a Local Health Board to) a contractor or APMS
contractor, give notice in writing of that acceptance to the applicant (or, in
the case of a child or an adult who lacks capacity, the person making the
application on their behalf).

###### Inclusion in list of patients: armed forces personnel


24

24.1

Unless paragraph 26(1) applies, the contractor must, if its list of patients
is open, include a person to whom sub-paragraph (2) applies in that list for a
period of up to 2 years and paragraph  34(1)(b)  does not apply in respect of
any person who is included in the contractor’s list of patients by virtue of
this paragraph.

24.2

This sub-paragraph applies to a person who is—

24.2.a

a serving member of the armed forces of the Crown who has received written
authorisation from Defence Medical Services to receive primary medical
services from the contractor’s practice, and

24.2.b

living or working within the contractor’s practice area during the period in
respect of which that written authorisation is given.

24.3

Where the contractor has accepted a person to whom sub-paragraph (2) applies
onto its list of patients, the contractor must—

24.3.a

obtain a copy of the patient’s medical record, or a summary of that record,
from Defence Medical Services, and

24.3.b

provide regular updates to Defence Medical Services, at such intervals as are
agreed with Defence Medical Services, about any care and treatment which the
contractor has provided to the patient.

24.4

At the end of the period of 2 years, or on such earlier date as the
contractor’s responsibility for the patient has come to an end, the contractor
must—

24.4.a

notify Defence Medical Services in writing that the contractor’s
responsibility for the patient has come to an end, and

24.4.b

update the patient’s medical record, or summary of that record, and return it
to Defence Medical Services.

###### Temporary residents


25

25.1

Unless paragraph 26(1) applies, the contractor must, if its list of patients
is open, accept a person as a temporary resident if that the person is—

25.1.a

temporarily resident away from their normal place of residence and is not
being provided with unified services (or their equivalent) under any other
arrangement in the locality where that person is temporarily residing, or

25.1.b

moving from place to place and not for the time being resident in any place.

25.2

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1), a person is to be regarded as
temporarily resident in a place if, when that person arrives in that place,
they intend to stay there for more than 24 hours but not more than 12 weeks.

25.3

Where a contractor wants to terminate its responsibility for a person accepted
by it as a temporary resident before the end of—

25.3.a

12 weeks, or

25.3.b

such shorter period for which the contractor agreed to accept that person as a
temporary resident,

the contractor must give notice of that fact to the person either orally or in
writing and the contractor’s responsibility for that person ceases 7 days
after the date on which notice is given.

25.4

Where the contractor’s responsibility for a person as a temporary resident
comes to an end, the contractor must give notice in writing to the Local
Health Board of its acceptance of that person as a temporary resident—

25.4.a

at the end of the period of 12 weeks beginning with the date on which the
contractor accepted that person as a temporary resident, or

25.4.b

if the contractor’s responsibility for that person as a temporary resident
came to an end earlier than at the end of the 12 week period referred to in
paragraph (a), at the end of that period.

###### Refusal of applications for inclusion in the list of patients or early termination of responsibility for temporary residents


26

26.1

The contractor may only refuse an application made under paragraphs  23 ,  24
or  25  or terminate its responsibility for a person accepted by it as a
temporary resident under paragraph  25(3)  if it has reasonable grounds for
doing so which do not relate to the applicant’s race, social class, age,
religion or belief, sexual orientation, appearance, gender or gender
reassignment, marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy or maternity,
disability or medical condition.

26.2

The reasonable grounds referred to in sub- paragraph (1) may, in the case of
applications made under paragraph  23 , include the ground that the applicant
does not live in the contractor’s practice area.

26.3

Where a contractor refuses an application made under paragraphs  23 ,  24  or
25  or terminates its responsibility for a person accepted by it as a
temporary resident under paragraph 25(3), the contractor must give notice in
writing of that refusal or termination and the reasons for it to the applicant
(or, in the case of a child or an adult who lacks capacity, to the person who
made the application on their behalf) before the end of the period of 14 days
beginning with the date of its decision.

26.4

The contractor must—

26.4.a

keep a written record of—

26.4.a.i

the refusal of any application made under paragraphs  23 ,  24  or  25  or
termination its responsibility for a person accepted by it as a temporary
resident under paragraph 25(3), and

26.4.a.ii

the reasons for that refusal or termination, and

26.4.b

make such records available to the Local Health Board on request.

###### Patient preference of practitioner


27

27.1

Where the contractor has accepted an application made under paragraphs  23 ,
24  or  25  for inclusion in its list of patients, the contractor must record
in writing any preference expressed by that person (or, in the case of a child
or an adult who lacks capacity, the person who made the application on the
applicant’s behalf) to receive services from a particular performer, either
generally or in relation to a specific condition.

27.2

The contractor must endeavour to comply with any reasonable preference
expressed under sub-paragraph (1) but need not do so if the preferred
performer—

27.2.a

has reasonable grounds for refusing to provide services to the person who
expressed the preference, or

27.2.b

does not routinely perform the service in question within the contractor’s
practice.

###### Removal from the list at the request of the patient


28

28.1

The contractor must notify the Local Health Board in writing of any request
made by any person who is a registered patient to be removed from the
contractor’s list of patients.

28.2

Where the Local Health Board—

28.2.a

receives notification from the contractor under sub-paragraph (1), or

28.2.b

receives directly a request from the person to be removed from the
contractor’s list of patients,

the Local Health Board must remove that person from the contractor’s list of
patients.

28.3

The removal of a person from a contractor’s list of patients in accordance
with sub-paragraph (2) is to take effect on whichever is the earlier of—

28.3.a

the date on which the Local Health Board is given notice of the registration
of that person with another provider of unified services (or their
equivalent), or

28.3.b

14 days after the date on which the notice given under sub-paragraph (1) or
the request made under sub-paragraph (2) is received by the Local Health
Board.

28.4

The Local Health Board must, as soon as practicable, give notice in writing
to—

28.4.a

the person who requested the removal, and

28.4.b

the contractor,

that the person’s name is to be, or has been, removed from the contractor’s
list of patients on the date referred to in sub-paragraph (3).

28.5

In this paragraph and in paragraphs 29(1)(b) and (10), 30(5) and (6), 32 and
35, a reference to a request received from or advice, information or notice
required to be given to, a person must include a request received from or
advice, information or notice required to be given to—

28.5.a

in the case of a child—

28.5.a.i

either parent, or in the absence of both parents, the guardian or other adult
who has care of the child,

28.5.a.ii

a person duly authorised by a local authority to whose care the child has been
committed under the Children Act 1989, or

28.5.a.iii

a person duly authorised by a voluntary organisation by which the child is
being accommodated under the Children Act 1989, or

28.5.b

in the case of an adult patient who lacks capacity to make the relevant
request or receive the relevant advice, information or notice—

28.5.b.i

a relative of that person,

28.5.b.ii

the primary carer of that person,

28.5.b.iii

a donee of a lasting power of attorney granted by that person, or

28.5.b.iv

a deputy appointed for that person by the court under the Mental Capacity Act
2005.

###### Removal from the list at the request of the contractor


29

29.1

Subject to paragraph  30 , a contractor who has reasonable grounds for wanting
a person to be removed from its list of patients which do not relate to the
person’s race, social class, age, religion or belief, sexual orientation,
gender or gender reassignment, marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy or
maternity, appearance, disability or medical condition must—

29.1.a

give notice in writing to the Local Health Board that it wants to have the
person removed and provide within the notice an explanation of the grounds for
the requested removal and why the removal would be reasonable, and

29.1.b

subject to sub-paragraph (2), give notice in writing to the person of its
specific reasons for requesting the removal of that person.

29.2

Where in the reasonable opinion of the contractor—

29.2.a

the circumstances of the person’s removal are such that it is not appropriate
for a more specific reason to be given, and

29.2.b

there has been an irrevocable breakdown in the relationship between the
relevant person and the contractor,

the reason given to the patient under sub-paragraph (1) may consist of a
statement that there has been such a breakdown.

29.3

Except in the circumstances specified in sub-paragraph (4) a contractor may
only request the removal of a person from its list of patients under sub-
paragraph (1), if,   during the period of 1 year ending with the date of the
contractor’s request   to the Local Health Board, the contractor has—

29.3.a

warned that person of the risk of being removed from that list; and

29.3.b

explained to that person the reasons for this.

29.4

The circumstances referred to in sub-paragraph (3) are that—

29.4.a

the reason for removal relates to a change of address,

29.4.b

the contractor has reasonable grounds for believing that the giving of a
warning under sub-paragraph (3)(a) would—

29.4.b.i

be harmful to the person’s physical or mental health, or

29.4.b.ii

put at risk the safety of one or more of the persons specified in sub-
paragraph (5), or

29.4.c

the contractor considers that it is not otherwise reasonable or practicable
for a warning to be given.

29.5

The persons referred to in sub-paragraph (4) are—

29.5.a

the contractor, where the contractor is an individual medical practitioner,

29.5.b

in the case of a contract with two or more persons practising in partnership,
a partner in that partnership,

29.5.c

in the case of a contract with a company limited by shares, a person who is
both a legal and beneficial owner of shares in that company,

29.5.d

a member of the contractor’s staff,

29.5.e

a person engaged by the contractor to perform or assist in the performance of
services under the contract, or

29.5.f

any other person present—

29.5.f.i

on the practice premises, or

29.5.f.ii

in the place where services are being provided to the patient under the
contract.

29.6

The contractor must keep a written record of—

29.6.a

the date of any warning given in accordance with sub-paragraph (3)(a) and the
reasons for giving such a warning as explained to the person concerned, or

29.6.b

the reason why no such warning was given.

29.7

The contractor must keep a written record of removal of any person from its
list of patients under this paragraph which includes—

29.7.a

the reason for removal,

29.7.b

the circumstances of the removal, and

29.7.c

in cases where sub-paragraph (2) applies, the grounds for a more specific
reason not being appropriate,

and the contractor must make this record available to the Local Health Board
on request.

29.8

The removal of a person from the contractor’s list of patients must, subject
to sub-paragraph (9), take effect from whichever is the earlier of—

29.8.a

the date on which the Local Health Board is given notice of the registration
of that person with another provider of unified services (or their
equivalent),

29.8.b

the eighth day after the Local Health Board gives notice to the contractor of
its approval of the removal, or

29.8.c

the twenty-eighth day after the date on which the Local Health Board receives
the notice from the contractor, if the Local Health Board has neither approved
nor rejected the notice during that period.

29.9

Where, on the date on which the removal would take effect under sub-paragraph
(8), the contractor is treating that person at intervals of less than 7 days,
the contractor must give notice in writing to the Local Health Board of that
fact and the removal takes effect on whichever is the earlier of—

29.9.a

the eighth day after the Local Health Board is given notice by the contractor
that the person no longer needs such treatment, or

29.9.b

the date on which the Local Health Board is given notice of the registration
of the person with another provider of unified services (or their equivalent).

29.10

If a person is to be removed from the contractor’s list of patients pursuant
to   sub-paragraph    (8)  or  (9) , the Local Health Board must give notice
in writing to—

29.10.a

the person in respect of whom the removal is approved, and

29.10.b

the contractor,

that the person’s name has been or is to be removed from the contractor’s list
of patients on the date referred to in   sub-paragraph    (8)  or  (9) .

###### Removals from the list of patients who are violent


30

30.1

Where a contractor wants a person to be removed from its list of patients on
the grounds that—

30.1.a

the person has committed an act of violence against any of the persons
specified in sub-paragraph  (2)  or has behaved in such a way that any of
those persons has feared for their safety, and

30.1.b

the contractor has reported the incident to the police,

the contractor must give notice to the Local Health Board in accordance with
sub-paragraph  (3)  requesting that the person be removed from its list of
patients.

30.2

The persons specified in this sub-paragraph are—

30.2.a

the contractor, where the contractor is an individual medical practitioner,

30.2.b

in the case of a contract with two or more persons practising in partnership,
a partner in the partnership,

30.2.c

in the case of a contract with a company limited by shares, a person who is
both a legal and beneficial owner of shares in that company,

30.2.d

a member of the contractor’s staff,

30.2.e

a person engaged by the contractor to perform or assist in the performance of
services under the contract, or

30.2.f

any other person present—

30.2.f.i

on the contractor’s practice premises, or

30.2.f.ii

in the place where services were provided to the person under the contract.

30.3

Notification under sub-paragraph (1) must be in writing and include the crime
reference number allocated to the incident by the police.

30.4

A removal requested in accordance with sub-paragraph (1) takes effect from
whichever is the earlier of—

30.4.a

the date on which the Local Health Board is given notice of the registration
of that person with another provider of unified services (or their
equivalent),

30.4.b

the day after the day on which the Local Health Board gives notice to the
contractor of its approval of the removal, or

30.4.c

the seventh day after the date on which the Local Health Board receives the
notice from the contractor, if the Local Health Board has neither approved nor
rejected the notice within that period.

30.5

Where, pursuant to this paragraph, the contractor has given notice to the
Local Health Board that it wants to have a patient removed from its list of
patients and that request has taken effect under sub-paragraph  (4) , the
contractor must inform that person of that fact unless—

30.5.a

it is not reasonably practicable for the contractor to do so, or

30.5.b

the contractor has reasonable grounds for believing that to do so would—

30.5.b.i

be harmful to that person’s physical or mental health, or

30.5.b.ii

put the safety of any person specified in sub-paragraph  (2)  at risk.

30.6

Where a person is removed from the contractor’s list of patients under this
paragraph, the Local Health Board must give that person notice in writing of
that removal.

30.7

The contractor must record the removal of any person from its list of patients
under this paragraph and the circumstances leading to that removal in the
medical records of the person removed.

###### Removal from  

31

31.1

The Local Health Board must remove a person from the contractor’s list of
patients if—

31.1.a

the person has subsequently been registered with another provider of unified
services (or their equivalent) in the area of the Local Health Board, or

31.1.b

it has received notice from another Local Health Board, NHS England, a Health
Board or a Health and Social Care Trust that the patient has subsequently been
registered with a provider of unified services (or their equivalent) outside
the area of the Local Health Board.

31.2

A removal in accordance with sub-paragraph (1) is to take effect—

31.2.a

on the date on which the Local Health Board is given notice of the person’s
registration with the new provider, or

31.2.b

with the consent of the Local Health Board, on such other date as has been
agreed between the contractor and the new provider.

31.3

The Local Health Board must give notice in writing to the contractor of any
person removed from its list of patients under sub-paragraph (1).

###### Removal from the list of patients who have moved


32

32.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), where the Local Health Board is satisfied, or is
notified by the contractor, that a person on the contractor’s list of patients
has moved and no longer resides in that contractor’s practice area, the Local
Health Board must—

32.1.a

inform both the person and the contractor that the contractor is no longer
obliged to visit and treat the person,

32.1.b

advise the person in writing to either obtain the contractor’s agreement to
that person’s continued inclusion on the contractor’s list of patients or to
apply for registration with another provider of unified services (or their
equivalent), and

32.1.c

inform the person that if, after the period of 30 days beginning with the date
on which the advice mentioned in paragraph (b) was given, that person has not
acted in accordance with that advice and informed the Local Health Board
accordingly, that person is to be removed from the contractor’s list of
patients.

32.2

If, at the end of the period of 30 days mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(c), the
Local Health Board has not been informed by the person of the action taken,
the Local Health Board must remove that person from the contractor’s list of
patients and inform that person and the contractor of that removal.

###### Removal from the list of patients whose address is unknown


33

Where the address of a person who is on the contractor’s list of patients is
no longer known to the Local Health Board and the Local Health Board
reasonably believes this is not due to the patient being unable to provide
proof of their address the Local Health Board may—

33.a

give notice in writing to the contractor that it intends, at the end of the
period of 6 months beginning with the date on which the notice was given, to
remove the person from the contractor’s list of patients, and

33.b

at the end of the period referred to in sub-paragraph (a), remove the person
from the contractor’s list of patients unless, before the end of that period,
the contractor satisfies the Local Health Board that the person is a patient
to whom it is still responsible for providing unified services.

###### Removal from the list of patients absent from the United Kingdom etc.


34

34.1

The Local Health Board must remove a person from a contractor’s list of
patients where it receives notice to the effect that the person—

34.1.a

intends to be away from the United Kingdom for a period of at least 12 weeks,

34.1.b

is in the armed forces of the Crown (except in the case of a patient to which
paragraph  24  applies),

34.1.c

is serving a term of imprisonment of more than 2 years or more than one term
of imprisonment totalling, in the aggregate more than 2 years,

34.1.d

has been absent from the United Kingdom for a period of more than 12 weeks, or

34.1.e

has died.

34.2

The removal of a person from a contractor’s list of patients under this
paragraph takes effect from—

34.2.a

where sub-paragraph (1)(a) to (c) applies, whichever is the latest of—

34.2.a.i

the date of the person’s departure, enlistment or imprisonment, or

34.2.a.ii

the date on which the Local Health Board first receives notice of the person’s
departure, enlistment or imprisonment, or

34.2.b

where sub-paragraph (1)(d) and (e) applies, the date on which the Local Health
Board is given notice of the person’s absence or death.

34.3

The Local Health Board must give notice in writing to the contractor of the
removal of any person from the contractor’s list of patients under this
paragraph.

###### Removal from the list of patients accepted elsewhere as temporary residents


35

35.1

The Local Health Board must remove a person from the contractor’s list of
patients where the person has been accepted as a temporary resident by another
contractor or other provider of unified services (or their equivalent) where
the Local Health Board is satisfied, after due inquiry that—

35.1.a

the person’s stay in the place of temporary residence has exceeded 12 weeks,
and

35.1.b

the person has not returned to their normal place of residence or to any other
place within the contractor’s practice area.

35.2

The Local Health Board must give notice in writing of the removal of a person
from a contractor’s list of patients under this paragraph—

35.2.a

to the contractor, and

35.2.b

where practicable, to that person.

35.3

A notice given under sub-paragraph (2)(b) must inform the person of—

35.3.a

that person’s entitlement to make arrangements for the provision to that
person of unified services (or their equivalent), including by the contractor
by which that person has been treated as a temporary resident; and

35.3.b

the name, postal and electronic mail address and telephone number of the Local
Health Board.

###### Removal from the list of pupils etc. of a school


36

36.1

Where the contractor provides unified services under the contract to persons
on the grounds that they are pupils at, or staff or residents of, a school,
the Local Health Board must remove any person from a contractor’s list of
patients who does not appear on the particulars provided by that school of
persons who are pupils at, or staff or residents of, that school.

36.2

Where the Local Health Board has requested a school to provide the particulars
referred to in sub-paragraph (1) and has not received those particulars, the
Local Health Board must consult the contractor as to whether it should remove
from the contractor’s list of patients any persons appearing in that list as
pupils at, or staff or residents of, that school.

36.3

The Local Health Board must give notice in writing to the contractor of the
removal of any person from the contractor’s list of patients under this
paragraph.

###### Termination of responsibility for patients not registered with the contractor


37

37.1

Where the contractor has—

37.1.a

received an application for the provision of medical services other than
unified services—

37.1.a.i

from a person who is not included (and who is not applying to be included) in
the contractor’s list of patients,

37.1.a.ii

from a person that the contractor has not accepted as a temporary resident, or

37.1.a.iii

made on behalf of a person referred to in sub-paragraph (i) or (ii), by a
person specified in paragraph  23(4) , and

37.1.b

accepted the person making the application or on whose behalf the application
is made as a patient for the provision of the service in question,

the contractor’s responsibility for that person terminates in the
circumstances described in sub-paragraph (2).

37.2

The circumstances described in this sub-paragraph are that—

37.2.a

the contractor is informed that the person no longer wishes the contractor to
be responsible for the provision of the service in question, or

37.2.b

it comes to the contractor’s attention that the person—

37.2.b.i

no longer resides in the area for which the contractor has agreed to provide
the service in question, or

37.2.b.ii

is no longer included in the list of patients of another contractor to whose
registered patients the contractor has agreed to provide that service.

37.3

The contractor must keep a written record of terminations under this paragraph
and of the reasons for those terminations and must make this record available
to the Local Health Board on request.

##### List of patients: closure, etc.


###### Application for closure of list of patients


38

38.1

Where a contractor wants to close its list of patients, the contractor must
send a written application to that effect (“ the application ”) to the Local
Health Board.

38.2

The application must include the following information—

38.2.a

the period of time, being a period of not less than 12 weeks and not more than
1 year, during which the contractor proposes its list of patients is to be
closed,

38.2.b

the current number of the contractor’s registered patients,

38.2.c

the number of registered patients (lower than the current number of such
patients, and expressed either in absolute terms or as a percentage of the
number of such patients specified pursuant to paragraph (b)) which, if that
number were reached, would trigger the re-opening of the contractor’s list of
patients,

38.2.d

the number of registered patients (expressed either in absolute terms or as a
percentage of the number of such patients specified pursuant to paragraph (b))
which, if that number were reached, would trigger the re-closure of the
contractor’s list of patients,

38.2.e

any withdrawal from or reduction in provision of any supplementary services
which had previously been provided under the contract, and

38.2.f

any other information which the contractor considers ought to be drawn to the
attention of the Local Health Board.

38.3

The Local Health Board must acknowledge receipt of the application before the
end of the period of 7 days beginning with the date on which the Local Health
Board received the application.

38.4

The Local Health Board must consider the application and may request such
information from the contractor as the Local Health Board requires in order to
enable it to determine the application.

38.5

The Local Health Board must enter into discussions with the contractor
concerning—

38.5.a

the support which the Local Health Board may give to the contractor, or

38.5.b

any changes which the Local Health Board or the contractor may make,

which would enable the contractor to keep its list of patients open.

38.6

The Local Health Board and the contractor must, throughout the period of the
discussions referred to in sub-paragraph (5), use reasonable endeavours to
achieve the aim of keeping the contractor’s list of patients open.

38.7

The Local Health Board or the contractor may, at any stage during the
discussions, invite the Local Medical Committee (if there is one) for the area
in which the contractor provides services under the contract to attend any
meetings arranged between the Local Health Board and the contractor to discuss
the application.

38.8

The Local Health Board may consult such persons as it appears to the Local
Health Board may be affected by the closure of the contractor’s list of
patients and, if the Local Health Board does so, it must provide to the
contractor a summary of the views expressed by those persons consulted in
respect of the application.

38.9

The Local Health Board must enable the contractor to consider and comment on
all the information before the Local Health Board makes a decision in respect
of the application.

38.10

A contractor may withdraw the application at any time before the Local Health
Board makes a decision in respect of that application.

38.11

The Local Health Board must, before the end of the period of 21 days beginning
with the date on which the application was received by the Local Health Board
(or within such longer period as the parties may agree), make a decision to—

38.11.a

approve the application and determine the date from which the closure of the
contractor’s list is to take effect, or

38.11.b

reject the application.

38.12

The Local Health Board must give notice in writing to the contractor of its
decision to—

38.12.a

approve the application in accordance with paragraph  39 , or

38.12.b

reject the application in accordance with paragraph  40 .

38.13

A contractor may not submit more than one application to close its list of
patients in any period of 1 year beginning with the date on which the Local
Health Board makes its decision on the application unless—

38.13.a

paragraph 40(3) applies, or

38.13.b

there has been a change in the circumstances of the contractor which affects
its ability to deliver services under the contract.

###### Approval of an application to close a list of patients


39

39.1

Where the Local Health Board approves an application to close a contractor’s
list of patients, the Local Health Board must—

39.1.a

give notice in writing to the contractor of its decision as soon as possible
and the notice (“the closure notice”) must include the details specified in
sub-paragraph (2), and

39.1.b

at the same time as the Local Health Board gives notice to the contractor,
send a copy of the closure notice to—

39.1.b.i

the Local Medical Committee (if any) for the area in which the contractor
provides services under the contract, and

39.1.b.ii

any person who the Local Health Board consulted in accordance with paragraph
38(8) .

39.2

The closure notice must include—

39.2.a

the period of time for which the contractor’s list of patients is to be closed
which must be—

39.2.a.i

the period specified in the application, or

39.2.a.ii

where the Local Health Board and the contractor have agreed in writing to a
different period, that different period, and

in either case, the period must not be less than 12 weeks and not more than 1
year,

39.2.b

the date on which the closure of the list of patients is to take effect (“the
closure date”), and

39.2.c

the date on which the list of patients is to re-open.

39.3

Subject to paragraph  41 , a contractor must close its list of patients with
effect from the closure date and the list of patients must remain closed for
the duration of the closure period as specified in the closure notice.

###### Rejection of an application to close a list of patients


40

40.1

Where the Local Health Board rejects an application to close a contractor’s
list of patients it must—

40.1.a

give notice in writing to the contractor of its decision as soon as possible,
including the Local Health Board’s reasons for rejecting the application, and

40.1.b

at the same time as it gives notice to the contractor, send a copy of the
notice to—

40.1.b.i

the Local Medical Committee (if any) for the area in which the contractor
provides services under the contract, and

40.1.b.ii

any person who the Local Health Board consulted in accordance with paragraph
38(8) .

40.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (3), if the Local Health Board rejects an application
from a contractor to close its list of patients, the contractor must not make
a further application to close its list of patients until whichever is the
later of—

40.2.a

the end of the period of 12 weeks beginning with the date on which the Local
Health Board’s decision to reject the application was made, or

40.2.b

in a case where a dispute arising from the Local Health Board’s decision to
reject the application has been referred to the NHS dispute resolution
procedure, the end of the period of 12 weeks beginning with the date on which
a final determination to reject the application was made in accordance with
that procedure (or any court proceedings).

40.3

A contractor may make a further application to close its list of patients
where there has been a change in the circumstances of the contractor which
affects the contractor’s ability to deliver services under the contract.

###### Re-opening of list of patients


41

The contractor may re-open its list of patients before the expiry of the
closure period if the Local Health Board and the contractor agree that the
contractor should do so.

##### Assignment of patients to lists


42

42.1

This Part applies in respect of the assignment by the Local Health Board of—

42.1.a

a person as a new patient to a contractor’s list of patients where that
person—

42.1.a.i

has been refused inclusion in a contractor’s list of patients or has not been
accepted as a temporary resident by a contractor, and

42.1.a.ii

would like to be included in the list of patients of a contractor within the
area of the Local Health Board in which that person resides, or

42.1.b

any person who is part of a list dispersal resulting from the closure of a
practice where that person—

42.1.b.i

has not registered with another contractor, and

42.1.b.ii

would like to be included in the list of patients of a contractor within the
area of the Local Health Board in which that person resides; or

42.1.c

any person who is part of a list dispersal resulting from the closure of a
practice where that person has not registered with another contractor and the
Local Health Board has been unable to contact that person.

42.2

In this paragraph, “ list dispersal ” means the allocation of patients from a
contractor’s list of patients by the Local Health Board following termination
of the contract or during the period set out in the notice of termination or
agreement to terminate.

###### Assignment of patients to list of patients: open and closed lists


43

43.1

Subject to paragraph 44, the Local Health Board may—

43.1.a

assign a new patient to a contractor whose list of patients is open, and

43.1.b

only assign a new patient to a contractor whose list of patients is closed in
the circumstances specified in sub-paragraph (2).

43.2

The circumstances specified in this sub-paragraph are where—

43.2.a

the assessment panel has determined under paragraph 45(7) that new patients
may be assigned to the contractor in question, and that determination has not
been overturned either by a determination of the Welsh Ministers under
paragraph 46(13) or (where applicable) by a court, and

43.2.b

the Local Health Board has entered into discussions with the contractor in
question regarding the assignment of new patients if such discussions are
required under paragraph 47.

###### Factors relevant to assignments


44

When assigning a person as a new patient to a contractor’s list of patients
under paragraph 43(1)(a) or (b), the Local Health Board must have regard to—

44.a

the preferences and circumstances of the person,

44.b

the distance between the person’s place of residence and the contractor’s
practice premises,

44.c

any request made by a contractor to remove the person from its list of
patients within the preceding period of 6 months beginning with the date on
which the application for assignment is received by the Local Health Board,

44.d

whether, during the preceding period of 6 months beginning with the date on
which the application for assignment is received by the Local Health Board,
the person has been removed from a list of patients on the grounds referred to
in—

44.d.i

paragraph 29 (relating to the circumstances in which a person may be removed
from a contractor’s list of patients at the request of the contractor),

44.d.ii

paragraph 30 (relating to the removal from the contractor’s list of patients
of persons who are violent), or

44.d.iii

the equivalent provisions to those paragraphs in relation to arrangements made
under section 41(2) of the Act (which relate to arrangements for the provision
of primary medical services),

44.e

in a case to which sub-paragraph (d)(ii) applies (or equivalent provisions as
mentioned in sub-paragraph (d)(iii) apply), whether the contractor has
appropriate facilities to deal with such patients, and

44.f

such other matters as the Local Health Board considers relevant.

###### Assignments to closed lists: composition and determinations of the assessment panel


45

45.1

Where the Local Health Board wants to assign a new patient to a contractor
which has closed its lists of patients, the Local Health Board must prepare a
proposal to be considered by the assessment panel.

45.2

The Local Health Board must give notice in writing that it has referred the
matter to the assessment panel to—

45.2.a

contractors, including those contractors who provide primary medical services
under arrangements made under section 41(2) of the Act (which relate to
arrangements for the provision of primary medical services) which—

45.2.a.i

have closed their lists of patients, and

45.2.a.ii

may, in the opinion of the Local Health Board, be affected by the
determination of the assessment panel, and

45.2.b

the Local Medical Committee (if any) for the area in which the contractors
referred to in paragraph (a) provide unified services (or their equivalent).

45.3

The Local Health Board must ensure that the assessment panel is appointed to
consider and determine the proposal made under sub-paragraph (1), and the
composition of the assessment panel must be as described in sub-paragraph (4).

45.4

The members of the assessment panel must be—

45.4.a

the Chief Executive of the Local Health Board of which the assessment panel is
a committee or sub-committee,

45.4.b

a person representative of patients in an area other than that of the Local
Health Board which is a party to the contract, and

45.4.c

a person representative of a Local Medical Committee which does not represent
practitioners in the area of the Local Health Board which is a party to the
contract.

45.5

In reaching its determination, the assessment panel must have regard to all
relevant factors including—

45.5.a

whether the Local Health Board has attempted to secure the provision of
unified services (or their equivalent) for new patients other than by means of
assignment to a contractor with a closed list; and

45.5.b

the workload of those contractors likely to be affected by any decision to
assign such patients to their list of patients.

45.6

The assessment panel must reach a determination before the end of the period
of 28 days beginning with the date on which the panel was appointed.

45.7

The assessment panel must—

45.7.a

determine whether the Local Health Board may assign new patients to a
contractor which has a closed list of patients, and

45.7.b

if it determines that the Local Health Board may make such an assignment,
determine, where there is more than one contractor, the contractors to which
patients may be assigned.

45.8

The assessment panel may determine that the Local Health Board may assign new
patients to contractors other than any of the contractors specified in its
proposals under sub-paragraph (1), as long as the contractors were given
notice in writing under sub-paragraph (2)(a).

45.9

The assessment panel’s determination must include its comments on the matters
referred to in sub-paragraph (5), and notice in writing of that determination
must be given to those contractors referred to in sub-paragraph (2)(a).

###### Assignment to closed lists: NHS dispute resolution procedure relating to determinations of the assessment panel


46

46.1

Where an assessment panel makes a determination under paragraph  45(7)  that
the Local Health Board may assign new patients to contractors who have closed
their lists of patients, any contractor specified in the determination may
refer the matter to the Welsh Ministers to review that determination.

46.2

Where a matter is referred to the Welsh Ministers under sub-paragraph (1), it
must be reviewed in accordance with the procedure specified in the following
sub-paragraphs.

46.3

Where more than one contractor specified in the determination would like to
refer the matter for dispute resolution, those contractors may, if they all
agree, refer the matter jointly and, in that case, the Welsh Ministers must
review the matter in relation to those contractors together.

46.4

The contractor (or contractors) must send to the Welsh Ministers, before the
end of the period of 7 days beginning with the date of the determination of
the assessment panel in accordance with paragraph  45(7) , a written request
for dispute resolution which must include or be accompanied by—

46.4.a

the names and addresses of the parties to the dispute,

46.4.b

a copy of the contract (or contracts), and

46.4.c

a brief statement describing the nature of and circumstances giving rise to
the dispute.

46.5

The Welsh Ministers must, before the end of the period of 7 days beginning
with the date on which the matter was referred to the Welsh Ministers—

46.5.a

give notice in writing to the parties that the Welsh Ministers are dealing
with the matter, and

46.5.b

include with the notice a written request to the parties to make, in writing
before the end of a specified period, any representations which those parties
would like to make about the dispute.

46.6

The Welsh Ministers must give, with the notice under sub-paragraph (5), to the
party other than the one which referred the matter to dispute resolution, a
copy of any document by which the dispute was referred to dispute resolution.

46.7

The Welsh Ministers must, upon receiving any representations from a party—

46.7.a

give a copy of those representations to each other party, and

46.7.b

request, in writing, that each party to which a copy of those representations
is given makes, before the end of a specified period, any written observations
which the party would like to make about those representations.

46.8

The Welsh Ministers may—

46.8.a

invite representatives of the parties to appear before, and make oral
representations to, the Welsh Ministers either together or, with the agreement
of the parties, separately, and may, in advance, provide the parties with a
list of matters or questions to which the Welsh Ministers would like them to
give special consideration, or

46.8.b

consult other persons whose expertise the Welsh Ministers considers is likely
to assist the Welsh Ministers consideration of the dispute.

46.9

Where the Welsh Ministers consult another person under sub-paragraph (8)(b),
the Welsh Ministers must—

46.9.a

give notice in writing to that effect to the parties, and

46.9.b

where the Welsh Ministers consider that the interests of any party might be
substantially affected by the results of the consultation, give to the parties
such opportunity as the Welsh Ministers consider reasonable in the
circumstances to make observations about those results.

46.10

In considering the dispute, the Welsh Ministers must take into account—

46.10.a

any written representations made in response to a request under sub-paragraph
(5)(b), but only if those representations are made before the end of the
specified period,

46.10.b

any written observations made in response to a request under sub-paragraph
(7), but only if those written observations are made before the end of the
specified period,

46.10.c

any oral representations made in response to an invitation under sub-paragraph
(8)(a),

46.10.d

the results of any consultation under sub-paragraph (8)(b), and

46.10.e

any observations made in accordance with an opportunity given under sub-
paragraph (9).

46.11

Subject to the other provisions of this paragraph and to any agreement between
the parties, the Welsh Ministers may determine the procedure which is to apply
to the dispute resolution in such manner as the Welsh Ministers consider
appropriate in order to ensure the just, expeditious, economical and final
determination of the dispute.

46.12

In this paragraph, “ specified period ” means—

46.12.a

such period as the Welsh Ministers specify in the request being a period of
not less than 7 days and not more than 14 days beginning with the date on
which the notice referred to is given, or

46.12.b

such longer period as the Welsh Ministers may allow for the determination of
the dispute where the period for determination of the dispute has been
extended in accordance with sub-paragraph (16), and where the Welsh Ministers
do so allow, a reference in this paragraph to the specified period is to the
period as so extended.

46.13

Subject to sub-paragraph (16), the Welsh Ministers must—

46.13.a

determine the dispute before the end of the period of 21 days beginning with
the date on which the matter was referred to the Welsh Ministers,

46.13.b

determine whether the Local Health Board may assign new patients to
contractors which have closed their lists of patients, and

46.13.c

if the Welsh Ministers determine that the Local Health Board may assign new
patients to those contractors, determine the contractors to which the new
patients may be assigned.

46.14

The Welsh Ministers must not determine that patients may be assigned to a
contractor which was not specified in the determination of the assessment
panel under paragraph  45(7)(b) .

46.15

In the case of a matter referred jointly by contractors in accordance with
sub-paragraph (3), the Welsh Ministers may determine that patients may be
assigned to one, some or all of the contractors which referred the matter.

46.16

The period of 21 days referred to in sub-paragraph (13) may be extended (even
after it has expired) by a further specified number of days if an agreement to
that effect is reached by—

46.16.a

the Welsh Ministers,

46.16.b

the Local Health Board, and

46.16.c

the contractor (or contractors) which referred the matter to dispute
resolution.

46.17

The Welsh Ministers must—

46.17.a

record the determination, and the reasons for it, in writing, and

46.17.b

give notice in writing of the determination (including the record of the
reasons) to the parties.

###### Assignments to closed lists: assignments of patients by the Local Health Board


47

47.1

Before the Local Health Board assigns a new patient to a contractor, the Local
Health Board must, subject to sub-paragraph (3)—

47.1.a

enter into discussions with the contractor regarding the additional support
that the Local Health Board can offer the contractor, and

47.1.b

use its best endeavours to provide such appropriate support.

47.2

In the discussions referred to in sub-paragraph (1)(a), both parties must use
reasonable endeavours to reach agreement.

47.3

The requirement in sub-paragraph (1)(a) to enter into discussions applies—

47.3.a

to the first assignment of a patient to a particular contractor, and

47.3.b

to any subsequent assignment to that contractor to the extent that it is
reasonable and appropriate having regard to—

47.3.b.i

the numbers of patients who have been or may be assigned to it, and

47.3.b.ii

the period of time since the last discussions under sub-paragraph (1)(a) took
place.

##### Prescribing and dispensing


###### Prescribing: general


48

48.1

The contractor must ensure that—

48.1.a

any prescription form or repeatable prescription for drugs, medicines or
appliances issued by a prescriber, and

48.1.b

any home oxygen order form issued by a health care professional,

complies, as appropriate, with the requirements in this Part.

48.2

In this Part, a reference to “ drugs ” includes contraceptive substances and a
reference to “ appliances ” includes contraceptive appliances.

###### Orders for drugs, medicines and appliances


49

49.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (4) and to the restrictions on prescribing
in paragraphs  55  and  56 , a prescriber must order any drugs, medicines or
appliances which are needed for the treatment of any patient who is receiving
treatment under the contract by—

49.1.a

issuing to the patient a non-electronic prescription form or a non-electronic
repeatable prescription completed in accordance with sub-paragraph (6), or

49.1.b

creating and transmitting an electronic prescription in circumstances to which
paragraph 50(1) applies,

and a non-electronic prescription form, non-electronic repeatable prescription
or electronic prescription that is for health service use must not be used in
any other circumstances.

49.2

If, on a particular occasion when a drug, medicine or appliance is needed as
mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)—

49.2.a

the prescriber is able, without delay, to order the drug, medicine or
appliance by means of an electronic prescription,

49.2.b

the Electronic Prescription Service software that the prescriber would use for
that purpose provides for the creation and transmission of electronic
prescriptions without the need for a nominated dispenser, and

49.2.c

none of the reasons for issuing a non-electronic prescription form or a non-
electronic repeatable prescription given in sub-paragraph (3) apply,

the prescriber must create and transmit an electronic prescription for that
drug, medicine or appliance.

49.3

The reasons given in this sub-paragraph are—

49.3.a

although the prescriber is able to use the Electronic Prescription Service,
the prescriber is not satisfied that—

49.3.a.i

the access that the prescriber has to the Electronic Prescription Service is
reliable, or

49.3.a.ii

the Electronic Prescription Service is functioning reliably,

49.3.b

the patient, or where appropriate the patient’s authorised person, informs the
prescriber that the patient wants the option of having the prescription
dispensed elsewhere than in Wales, or

49.3.c

the patient, or where appropriate the patient’s authorised person, insists on
the patient being issued with a non-electronic prescription form or, a non-
electronic repeatable prescription for a particular prescription and in the
professional judgement of the prescriber the welfare of the patient is likely
to be in jeopardy unless a non-electronic prescription form or a non-
electronic repeatable prescription is issued.

49.4

A health care professional must order any home oxygen services which are
needed for the treatment of any patient who is receiving treatment under the
contract by issuing a home oxygen order form.

49.5

A prescriber may order drugs, medicines or appliances on a repeatable
prescription only where the drugs, medicines or appliances are to be provided
more than once.

49.6

In issuing a non-electronic prescription form or a non-electronic repeatable
prescription, the prescriber must—

49.6.a

sign the prescription form or repeatable prescription in ink in the
prescriber’s own handwriting, and not by means of a stamp, with the
prescriber’s initials, or forenames, and surname, and

49.6.b

only sign the prescription form or repeatable prescription after particulars
of the order have been inserted in the prescription form or repeatable
prescription.

49.7

A prescription form or repeatable prescription must not refer to any previous
prescription form or repeatable prescription.

49.8

A separate prescription form or repeatable prescription must be used for each
patient, except where a bulk prescription is issued for a school or
institution under paragraph  57 .

49.9

A home oxygen order form must be signed by a health care professional.

49.10

Where a prescriber orders the drug buprenorphine or diazepam or a drug
specified in Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the Misuse of Drugs Regulations 2001
(controlled drugs to which regulations 14 to   16, 16A, 18   to 21, 23, 26 and
27 of those Regulations apply) for supply by instalments for treating
addiction to any drug specified in that Schedule, the prescriber must—

49.10.a

use only the prescription form provided specially for the purposes of supply
by instalments,

49.10.b

specify the number of instalments to be dispensed and the interval between
each instalment, and

49.10.c

order only such quantity of the drug as provides treatment for a period not
exceeding 14 days.

49.11

The prescription form provided specially for the purpose of supply by
instalments must not be used for any purpose other than ordering drugs in
accordance with sub-paragraph (10).

49.12

In an urgent case, a prescriber may request an NHS pharmacist to dispense a
drug or medicine before a prescription form or repeatable prescription is
issued or created, only if—

49.12.a

that drug or medicine is not a Scheduled drug,

49.12.b

the drug is not a controlled drug within the meaning of section 2 of the
Misuse of Drugs Act 1971     (which relates to controlled drugs and their
classification for the purposes of that Act), other than a drug which is for
the time being specified in Part 1 of Schedule 4 (controlled drugs subject to
the requirements of regulations 22, 23, 26 and 27) or Schedule 5 (controlled
drugs excepted from the prohibition on importation, exportation and possession
and subject to the requirements of regulations 24 and 26) to the Misuse of
Drugs Regulations 2001, and

49.12.c

the prescriber undertakes to—

49.12.c.i

provide the NHS pharmacist, within 72 hours beginning with the time of the
request, with a non-electronic prescription form or a non-electronic
repeatable prescription completed in accordance with sub-paragraph (6), or

49.12.c.ii

transmit an electronic prescription by the Electronic Prescription Service
within 72 hours, beginning with the time of the request.

49.13

In an urgent case, a prescriber may request an NHS pharmacist to dispense an
appliance before a prescription form or repeatable prescription is issued or
created, only if—

49.13.a

the appliance does not contain a Scheduled drug, or a controlled drug within
the meaning of section 2 of the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 (which relates to
controlled drugs and their classification for the purposes of that Act), other
than a drug which is for the time being specified in Schedule 5 to the Misuse
of Drugs Regulations 2001 (controlled drugs excepted from the prohibition on
importation, exportation and possession and subject to the requirements of
regulations 24 and 26),

49.13.b

where the appliance is a restricted availability appliance, the patient is a
person, or the appliance is for a purpose, specified in the Drug Tariff, and

49.13.c

the prescriber undertakes to—

49.13.c.i

provide the NHS pharmacist, within 72 hours beginning with the time of the
request, with a non-electronic prescription form or non-electronic repeatable
prescription completed in accordance with sub-paragraph (6), or

49.13.c.ii

transmit an electronic prescription by the Electronic Prescription Service
within 72 hours, beginning with the time of the request.

###### Electronic prescriptions


50

50.1

A prescriber may only order drugs, medicines or appliances by means of an
electronic prescription if the prescription is not—

50.1.a

for a controlled drug within the meaning of section 2 of the Misuse of Drugs
Act 1971 (which relates to controlled drugs and their classification for the
purposes of that Act), other than a drug which is for the time being specified
in Schedules 2 to 5 to the Misuse of Drugs Regulations 2001, or

50.1.b

a bulk prescription issued for a school or institution under paragraph  57 .

50.2

If a prescriber orders a drug, medicine or appliance by means of an electronic
prescription, the prescriber must issue the patient with—

50.2.a

subject to sub-paragraph (4), an EPS token, and

50.2.b

if the patient, or where appropriate the patient’s authorised person, so
requests, a written record of the prescription that has been created.

50.3

On and after the contractor’s EPS go live date, if the order is eligible for
Electronic Prescription Service use, the prescriber must ascertain if the
patient, or where appropriate the patient’s authorised person, wants to have
the electronic prescription dispensed by a nominated dispenser.

50.4

The prescriber must not issue the patient with an EPS token if the patient, or
where appropriate the patient’s authorised person, wants to have the
electronic prescription dispensed by a nominated dispenser.

50.5

A health care professional may not order home oxygen services by means of an
electronic prescription.

###### Nomination of dispensers for the purposes of electronic prescriptions


51

51.1

A contractor authorised to use the Electronic Prescription Service for its
patients must, if a patient, or where appropriate the patient’s authorised
person, so requests, enter into the particulars relating to the patient which
are held in the Welsh Demographic Service managed by   Digital Health and Care
Wales   or the Personal Demographic Service managed by NHS England—

51.1.a

where the patient does not have a nominated dispenser, the dispenser chosen by
the patient, or where appropriate the patient’s authorised person, and

51.1.b

where the patient does have a nominated dispenser—

51.1.b.i

a replacement dispenser, or

51.1.b.ii

a further dispenser,

chosen by the patient, or where appropriate the patient’s authorised person.

51.2

Sub-paragraph (1)(b)(ii) does not apply if the number of the nominated
dispensers would thereby exceed the maximum number permitted by the Electronic
Prescription Service.

51.3

A contractor must—

51.3.a

not seek to persuade a patient or a patient’s authorised person to nominate a
dispenser recommended by the prescriber or the contractor, and

51.3.b

if asked by a patient or a patient’s authorised person to recommend an NHS
pharmacist whom the patient or the patient’s authorised person might nominate
as the patient’s dispenser, provide the patient or, as the case may be, the
patient’s authorised person with the list given to the contractor by the Local
Health Board containing all NHS pharmacists in the area who provide an
Electronic Prescription Service.

###### Repeatable prescribing services


52

52.1

A contractor may only provide repeatable prescribing services to a person on
its list of patients if the contractor—

52.1.a

satisfies the conditions in sub-paragraph (2), and

52.1.b

has notified the relevant Local Health Board of its intention to provide
repeatable prescribing services in accordance with sub-paragraphs (3) and (4).

52.2

The conditions referred to in sub-paragraph (1)(a) are—

52.2.a

the contractor has access to computer systems and software which enable it to
issue non-electronic repeatable prescriptions and batch issues, and

52.2.b

the practice premises at which the repeatable prescribing services are to be
provided are located in an area of the Local Health Board in which there is
also located the premises of at least one NHS pharmacist who has undertaken to
provide, or has entered into an arrangement to provide, repeat dispensing
services.

52.3

The notification referred to in sub-paragraph (1)(b) is a notification, in
writing, by the contractor to the relevant Local Health Board that it—

52.3.a

wishes to provide repeatable prescribing services,

52.3.b

intends to begin to provide those services from a date specified in the
notification, and

52.3.c

satisfies the conditions in sub-paragraph (2).

52.4

The date specified by the contractor under sub-paragraph (3)(b) must be at
least 10 days after the date on which the notification specified in sub-
paragraph (1) is given.

52.5

Nothing in this paragraph requires a contractor or prescriber to provide
repeatable prescribing services to any person.

52.6

A prescriber may only provide repeatable prescribing services to a person on a
particular occasion if—

52.6.a

that person has agreed to receive such services on that occasion, and

52.6.b

the prescriber considers that it is clinically appropriate to provide such
services to that person on that occasion.

52.7

The contractor may not provide repeatable prescribing services to any person
on its list of patients to whom any person specified in sub-paragraph (8) is
authorised or required by the Local Health Board to provide pharmaceutical
services in accordance with arrangements under section 80 (arrangements for
pharmaceutical services) and section 86 (persons authorised to provide
pharmaceutical services) of the Act.

52.8

The persons referred to in sub-paragraph (7) are—

52.8.a

in the case of a contract with an individual medical practitioner, that
medical practitioner,

52.8.b

in the case of a contract with two or more individuals practising in
partnership, any medical practitioner who is a partner,

52.8.c

in the case of a contract with a company limited by shares, any medical
practitioner who is both a legal and beneficial shareholder in that company,
or

52.8.d

any medical practitioner employed by the contractor.

###### Repeatable prescriptions


53

53.1

A prescriber who issues a non-electronic repeatable prescription must at the
same time issue the appropriate number of batch issues.

53.2

Where a prescriber wants to make a change to the type, quantity, strength or
dosage of drugs, medicines or appliances ordered on a person’s repeatable
prescription, the prescriber must—

53.2.a

in the case of a non-electronic repeatable prescription—

53.2.a.i

give notice to the person, and

53.2.a.ii

make reasonable efforts to give notice to the NHS pharmacist providing repeat
dispensing services to that person,

that the original repeatable prescription is no longer to be used to obtain or
provide repeat dispensing services and make arrangements for a replacement
repeatable prescription to be issued to the person, or

53.2.b

in the case of an electronic repeatable prescription—

53.2.b.i

arrange with the Electronic Prescription Service for the cancellation of the
original repeatable prescription, and

53.2.b.ii

create a replacement repeatable prescription in respect of the person and give
notice to the person that this has been done.

53.3

Where a prescriber has created an electronic repeatable prescription for a
person, the prescriber must, as soon as practicable, arrange with the
Electronic Prescription Service for its cancellation if, before the expiry of
that prescription—

53.3.a

the prescriber considers that it is no longer safe or appropriate for the
person to—

53.3.a.i

receive the drugs, medicines or appliances ordered on the person’s electronic
repeatable prescription, or

53.3.a.ii

continue to receive repeatable prescribing services,

53.3.b

the prescriber has issued the person with a non-electronic repeatable
prescription in place of the electronic repeatable prescription, or

53.3.c

it comes to the prescriber’s notice that the person on whose behalf the
prescription was issued has been removed from the list of patients of the
contractor.

53.4

Where a prescriber has cancelled an electronic repeatable prescription in
respect of a person in accordance with sub-paragraph (3), the prescriber must
give notice of the cancellation to the person as soon as possible.

53.5

A prescriber who has issued a non-electronic repeatable prescription in
respect of a person must, as soon as possible, make reasonable efforts to give
notice to the NHS pharmacist that that repeatable prescription must no longer
be used to provide repeat dispensing services to that person, if, before the
expiry of that repeatable prescription—

53.5.a

the prescriber considers that it is no longer safe or appropriate for the
person to—

53.5.a.i

receive the drugs, medicines or appliances ordered on the person’s repeatable
prescription, or

53.5.a.ii

to continue to receive repeatable prescribing services,

53.5.b

the prescriber issues or creates a further repeatable prescription in respect
of the person to replace the original repeatable prescription other than in
the circumstances referred to in sub-paragraph (2)(a) (for example, because
the person wants to obtain the drugs, medicines or appliances from a different
NHS pharmacist), or

53.5.c

it comes to the prescriber’s notice that the person on whose behalf the
prescription was issued has been removed from the list of patients of the
contractor.

53.6

Where the circumstances in sub-paragraph (5)(a) to (c) apply in respect of a
person, the prescriber must, as soon as possible, give notice to that person
that their repeatable prescription must no longer be used to obtain repeat
dispensing services.

###### Prescribing for electronic repeat dispensing


54

54.1

Subject to paragraphs  49 ,  50 , 52 and  53(2)(b)  to  (4) , where a
prescriber orders a drug, medicine or appliance by means of an electronic
repeatable prescription, the prescriber must issue the prescription in a
format appropriate for electronic repeat dispensing where it is clinically
appropriate to do so for that patient on that occasion.

54.2

In this   paragraph , “ electronic repeat dispensing ” means dispensing as
part of pharmaceutical services or local pharmaceutical services which
involves the provision of drugs, medicines or appliances in accordance with an
electronic repeatable prescription.

###### Restrictions on prescribing by medical practitioners


55

55.1

A medical practitioner, in the course of treating a patient to whom the
practitioner is providing treatment under the contract, must comply with the
following sub-paragraphs.

55.2

The medical practitioner must not order on a listed medicines voucher,
prescription form or a repeatable prescription, drugs, medicines or other
substances specified in any directions given by the Welsh Ministers in
regulations made under section 46 of the Act (GMS contracts: prescription of
drugs etc) as being drugs, medicines or other substances which may not be
ordered for patients in the provision of medical services under the contract.

55.3

The medical practitioner must not order on a listed medicines voucher, a
prescription form or repeatable prescription drugs, medicines or other
substances specified in any directions given by the Welsh Ministers under
section 46 of the Act (GMS contracts: prescription of drugs etc) as being a
drug, medicine or other substance which can only be ordered for specified
patients and for specified purposes unless—

55.3.a

the patient is a person of the specified description,

55.3.b

the drug, medicine or other substance is prescribed for that patient only for
the specified purpose, and

55.3.c

if the order is on a prescription form, the practitioner includes on the form
the reference “SLS”.

55.4

The medical practitioner must not order on a prescription form or repeatable
prescription a restricted availability appliance unless—

55.4.a

the patient is a person, or the restricted availability appliance is for a
purpose, specified in the Drug Tariff, and

55.4.b

the practitioner includes on the prescription form the reference “SLS”.

55.5

The medical practitioner must not order on a repeatable prescription a
controlled drug within the meaning of section 2 of the Misuse of Drugs Act
1971 (which relates to controlled drugs and their classification for the
purposes of that Act), other than a drug which is for the time being specified
in Schedule 4 (controlled drugs subject to the requirements of regulations 22,
23 26 and 27) or Schedule 5 (controlled drugs excepted from the prohibition on
importation, exportation and possession and subject to the requirements of
regulations 24 and 26) to the Misuse of Drugs Regulations 2001.

55.6

Subject to regulation 21(2)(b) and to sub-paragraph (7), nothing in the
preceding sub-paragraphs prevents a medical practitioner, in the course of
treating a patient to whom this sub-paragraph refers, from prescribing a drug,
medicine or other substance or, as the case may be, a restricted availability
appliance or a controlled drug within the meaning of section 2 of the Misuse
of Drugs Act 1971 (which relates to controlled drugs and their classification
for the purposes of that Act), for the treatment of that patient under a
private arrangement.

55.7

Where, under sub-paragraph (6), a drug, medicine or other substance is
prescribed under a private arrangement, if the order is to be transmitted as
an electronic communication to an NHS pharmacist for the drug, medicine or
appliance to be dispensed—

55.7.a

if the order is not for a drug for the time being specified in Schedule 2
(controlled drugs subject to the requirements of regulations 14, 15,   16,
16A, 18 , 19, 20, 21, 23, 26 and 27) or 3 (controlled drugs subject to the
requirements of regulations 14, 15, 16, 18, 22, 23, 24, 26 and 27) to the
Misuse of Drugs Regulations 2001, it may be transmitted by the Electronic
Prescription Service, but

55.7.b

if the order is for a drug for the time being specified in Schedule 2
(controlled drugs subject to the requirements of regulations 14, 15,   16,
16A, 18 , 19, 20, 21, 23, 26 and 27) or 3 (controlled drugs subject to the
requirements of regulations 14, 15, 16, 18, 22, 23, 24, 26 and 27) to the
Misuse of Drugs Regulations 2001, it must be transmitted by the Electronic
Prescription Service.

###### Restrictions on prescribing by supplementary prescribers


56

56.1

The contractor must have arrangements in place to secure that an individual
who is a supplementary prescriber may—

56.1.a

issue or create a prescription for a prescription only medicine,

56.1.b

administer a prescription only medicine for parenteral administration, or

56.1.c

give directions for the administration of a prescription only medicine for
parenteral administration,

as a supplementary prescriber only under the conditions set out in sub-
paragraph (2).

56.2

The conditions referred to in sub-paragraph (1) are that—

56.2.a

the individual satisfies the applicable conditions set out in regulation 215
of the Human Medicines Regulations 2012  (prescribing and administration by
supplementary prescribers), unless those conditions do not apply by virtue of
any of the exemptions set out in the subsequent provisions of those
Regulations;

56.2.b

the drug, medicine or other substance is not specified in any directions given
by the Welsh Ministers under section 46 of the Act as being a drug, medicine
or other substance which may not be ordered for patients in the provision of
medical services under the contract;

56.2.c

the drug, medicine or other substance is not specified in any directions given
by the Welsh Ministers under section 46 of the Act as being a drug, medicine
or other substance which can only be ordered for specified patients and
specified purposes unless—

56.2.c.i

the patient is a person of the specified description,

56.2.c.ii

the medicine is prescribed for that patient only for the specified purposes,
and

56.2.c.iii

if the supplementary prescriber is giving a prescription, he or she endorses
the face of the form with the reference “SLS”.

56.3

Where the functions of a supplementary prescriber include prescribing, the
contractor must have arrangements in place to secure that that person may only
give a prescription for—

56.3.a

an appliance, or

56.3.b

a medicine which is not a prescription only medicine,

as a supplementary prescriber under the conditions set out in sub-paragraph
(4).

56.4

The conditions set out in this paragraph are that—

56.4.a

the supplementary prescriber acts in accordance with a clinical management
plan which is in effect at the time the supplementary prescriber acts and
which contains the following particulars—

56.4.a.i

the name of the patient to whom the plan relates,

56.4.a.ii

the illness or conditions which may be treated by the supplementary
prescriber,

56.4.a.iii

the date on which the plan is to take effect, and when it is to be reviewed by
the medical practitioner or dentist who is a party to the plan,

56.4.a.iv

reference to the class or description of medicines or types of appliances
which may be prescribed or administered under the plan,

56.4.a.v

any restrictions or limitations as to the strength or dose of any medicine
which may be prescribed or administered under the plan, and any period of
administration or use of any medicine or appliance which may be prescribed or
administered under the plan,

56.4.a.vi

relevant warnings about known sensitivities of the patient to, or known
difficulties of the patient with, particular medicines or appliances,

56.4.a.vii

the arrangements for notification of—

56.4.a.vii.aa

suspected or known adverse reactions to any medicine which may be prescribed
or administered under the plan, and suspected or known adverse reactions to
any other medicine taken at the same time as any medicine prescribed or
administered under the plan,

56.4.a.vii.bb

incidents occurring with the appliance which might lead, might have led or has
led to the death or serious deterioration of state of health of the patient,
and

56.4.a.viii

the circumstances in which the supplementary prescriber should refer to, or
seek the advice of, the medical practitioner or dentist who is a party to the
plan,

56.4.b

the supplementary prescriber has access to the health records of the patient
to whom the plan relates which are used by any medical practitioner or dentist
who is a party to the plan,

56.4.c

if it is a prescription for a drug, medicine or other substance, that drug,
medicine or other substance is not specified in any directions given by the
Welsh Ministers under section 46 of the Act as being a drug, medicine or other
substance which may not be ordered for patients in the provision of medical
services under the contract,

56.4.d

if it is a prescription for a drug, medicine or other substance, that drug,
medicine or other substance is not specified in any directions given by the
Welsh Ministers under section 46 of the Act as being a drug, medicine or other
substance which can only be ordered for specified patients and specified
purposes unless—

56.4.d.i

the patient is a person of the specified description,

56.4.d.ii

the medicine is prescribed for that patient only for the specified purposes,
and

56.4.d.iii

when giving the prescription, the supplementary prescriber endorses the face
of the form with the reference “SLS”,

56.4.e

if it is a prescription for an appliance, the appliance is listed in Part   9
of the Drug Tariff, and

56.4.f

if it is a prescription for a restricted availability appliance—

56.4.f.i

the patient is a person of a description mentioned in the entry in Part   9
of the Drug Tariff in respect of that appliance,

56.4.f.ii

the appliance is prescribed only for the purposes specified in respect of that
person in that entry, and

56.4.f.iii

when giving the prescription, the supplementary prescriber endorses the face
of the form with the reference “SLS”.

56.5

In sub-paragraph (4)(a), “ clinical management plan ” means a written plan
(which may be amended from time to time) relating to the treatment of an
individual patient agreed by—

56.5.a

the patient to whom the plan relates,

56.5.b

the medical practitioner or dentist who is a party to the plan, and

56.5.c

any supplementary prescriber who is to prescribe, give directions for
administration or administer under the plan.

###### Bulk prescribing


57

57.1

A prescriber may use a single non-electronic prescription form where—

57.1.a

a contractor is responsible under the contract for the treatment of 10 or more
persons in a school or other institution in which at least 20 persons normally
reside, and

57.1.b

the prescriber orders, for any 2 or more of those persons for whose treatment
the contractor is responsible, drugs, medicines or appliances to which this
paragraph applies.

57.2

Where a prescriber uses a single non-electronic prescription form for the
purpose mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(b), the prescriber must (instead of
entering on the form the names of the persons for whom the drugs, medicines or
appliances are ordered) enter on the form—

57.2.a

the name of the school or other institution in which those persons reside, and

57.2.b

the number of persons residing there for whose treatment the contractor is
responsible.

57.3

This paragraph applies to any drug, medicine or appliance which can be
supplied as part of pharmaceutical services or local pharmaceutical services
and which in the case of—

57.3.a

a drug or medicine, is not a prescription only medicine, or

57.3.b

an appliance, does not contain such a product.

###### Excessive prescribing


58

58.1

The contractor must not prescribe drugs, medicines or appliances the cost or
quantity of which, in relation to a patient, is, by reason of the character of
the drug, medicine or appliance in question, in excess of that which was
reasonably necessary for the proper treatment of the patient.

58.2

In considering whether a contractor has breached its obligations under   sub-
paragraph   (1), the Local Health Board must seek the views of the Local
Medical Committee (if any) for the area in which the contractor provides
services under the contract.

###### Provision of drugs, medicines and appliances for immediate treatment or personal administration


59

59.1

Subject to   sub-paragraphs   (2) and (3), a contractor—

59.1.a

must provide to a patient a drug, medicine or appliance, which is not a
Scheduled drug, where such provision is needed for the immediate treatment of
the patient before provision can otherwise be obtained, and

59.1.b

may provide to a patient a drug, medicine or appliance, which is not a
Scheduled drug, which the contractor personally administers or applies to the
patient.

59.2

A contractor must only provide a restricted availability appliance under
sub-paragraph   (1)(a) or (b) if it is for a person or a purpose specified in
the Drug Tariff.

59.3

Nothing in   sub-paragraph   (1) or (2) authorises a person to supply a
prescription only medicine to a patient otherwise than in accordance with Part
12 of the Human Medicines Regulations 2012 (which relates to dealings with
medicinal products).

###### Provision of dispensing services


60

60.1

The contractor may only provide, and must ensure that those employed or
engaged by it only provide, pharmaceutical services or dispensing services in
the circumstances provided for in the Pharmaceutical Regulations.

60.2

Where the contractor, or a person employed or engaged by the contractor, is
included in the Local Health Board’s dispensing doctor list, the contractor
must ensure that in the provision of any pharmaceutical services or dispensing
services the contractor, and the dispensing doctor (and any person authorised
to dispense on their behalf under the Pharmaceutical Regulations)—

60.2.a

complies with the terms of service applicable to the person providing those
pharmaceutical services or dispensing services by virtue of regulation 12(2)
of the Pharmaceutical Regulations, and

60.2.b

ensures that the patient to whom they are seeking to provide those services is
aware that the relevant drugs or appliances are not only available from them
(or by a person with whom the contractor is associated) and that the patient
has the option to obtain those drugs or appliances from any NHS pharmacist.

##### Persons who perform services


###### Qualifications of performers: medical practitioners


61

61.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), no medical practitioner may perform medical
services under the contract unless the medical practitioner is—

61.1.a

included in a medical performers’ list for a Local Health Board in Wales,

61.1.b

not suspended from that list or from the Medical Register, and

61.1.c

not subject to interim suspension under section 41A of the Medical Act 1983
(interim order).

61.2

Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to any medical practitioner who is an exempt
medical practitioner within the meaning of sub-paragraph (3) but only in so
far as any medical services that the medical practitioner performs constitute
part of a post-registration programme.

61.3

For the purposes of this paragraph, an “exempt medical practitioner” is—

61.3.a

a medical practitioner employed by an NHS trust , an NHS foundation trust , a
Health Board, or a Health and Social Care Trust who is providing services
other than primary medical services at the practice premises,

61.3.b

a person who is provisionally registered under section 15 (provisional
registration), 15A (provisional registration for EEA nationals) or 21
(provisional registration) of the Medical Act 1983 and who is acting in the
course of the person’s employment in a resident medical capacity,

61.3.c

a GP Specialty Registrar who has applied to a Local Health Board to have their
name included in its medical performers list until the first of the following
events arises—

61.3.c.i

the Local Health Board notifies the GP Specialty Registrar of its decision on
that application, or

61.3.c.ii

the end of a period of 12 weeks, starting with the date on which that GP
Specialty Registrar begins a postgraduate medical education and training
scheme necessary for the award of a Certificate of Completion of Training,

61.3.d

a medical practitioner who is already included in the medical performers list
of another primary care organisation and who has submitted an application to a
Local Health Board in accordance with regulation 4A of the National Health
Service (Performers Lists) (Wales) Regulations 2004 until the first of the
following events arises—

61.3.d.i

the Local Health Board notifies the medical practitioner of its decision on
that application, or

61.3.d.ii

the end of a period of 12 weeks, starting with the date on which the
application was submitted, or

61.3.e

a medical practitioner, who—

61.3.e.i

is not a GP Specialty Registrar,

61.3.e.ii

is undertaking a post-registration programme of clinical practice supervised
by the General Medical Council,

61.3.e.iii

has notified the Local Health Board that they are to undertake part or all of
a post-registration programme in its area at least 24 hours before commencing
any part of that programme taking place in the Local Health Board’s area, and

61.3.e.iv

has, with that notification, provided the Local Health Board with evidence
sufficient for it to satisfy itself that they are undertaking a post-
registration programme,

but only in so far as any medical services that the medical practitioner
performs constitute part of a post-registration programme.

###### Qualifications of performers: health care professionals


62

A health care professional (other than one to whom paragraph 61 applies) may
not perform clinical services under the contract unless—

62.a

that person is registered with the professional body relevant to that person’s
profession, and

62.b

that registration is not subject to a period of suspension.

###### Conditional registration or inclusion in primary care list


63

Where the registration of a health care professional or, in the case of a
medical practitioner, the medical practitioner’s inclusion in a primary care
list is subject to conditions, the contractor must ensure compliance with
those conditions insofar as they are relevant to the contract.

###### Clinical experience


64

No health care professional may perform any clinical services unless the
health care professional has such clinical experience and training as are
necessary to enable the health care professional properly to perform such
services.

###### Conditions for employment and engagement: medical practitioner


65

65.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) to (4), a contractor must not employ or engage a
medical practitioner (other than an exempt medical practitioner within the
meaning of sub-paragraph  61(3) ) unless—

65.1.a

that practitioner has provided the contractor with the name and address of the
Local Health Board on whose medical performers list the practitioner appears,
and

65.1.b

the contractor has checked that the practitioner meets the requirements in
paragraph  61 .

65.2

Where—

65.2.a

the employment or engagement of a medical practitioner is urgently needed, and

65.2.b

it is not possible for the contractor to check that the medical practitioner
meets the requirements referred to in paragraph 61 before employing or
engaging the health care professional,

the contractor may employ or engage the medical practitioner on a temporary
basis for a single period of up to 7 days while such checks are undertaken.

65.3

Where the prospective employee is a GP Specialty Registrar, the requirements
set out in sub-paragraph (1) apply with the modifications that—

65.3.a

the name and address provided under sub-paragraph (1) may be the name and
address of the Local Health Board on whose list the GP Specialty Registrar has
applied for inclusion, and

65.3.b

confirmation that the GP Specialty Registrar’s name appears on that list is
not to be required until the end of the first 12 weeks of the GP Specialty
Registrar’s training period.

65.4

Where the prospective employee is a medical practitioner who is already
included in the medical performers list of another primary care organisation
and who has submitted an application to the Local Health Board in accordance
with regulation 4A of the National Health Service (Performers Lists) (Wales)
Regulations 2004, the requirements set out in sub-paragraph (1) apply with the
modifications that—

65.4.a

the name and address provided under sub-paragraph (1) may be the name and
address of the Local Health Board on whose list the medical practitioner has
applied for inclusion, provided that the name and address of the primary care
organisation on whose list the medical practitioner is already included is
provided in addition; and

65.4.b

confirmation that the medical practitioner’s name appears on that list means
confirmation that the medical practitioner is provisionally included in the
Local Health Board’s medical performers list in accordance with regulation 4A
of the National Health Service (Performers Lists) (Wales) Regulations 2004.

65.5

In this paragraph “ primary care organisation ” has the meaning given in
regulation 2 of the National Health Service (Performers Lists) (Wales)
Regulations 2004.

###### Conditions for employment or engagement: health care professionals


66

66.1

Subject to   sub-paragraph   (2), a contractor may not employ or engage a
health care professional to perform clinical services under the contract
unless—

66.1.a

the contractor has checked that the health care professional meets the
requirements of paragraph  62 , and

66.1.b

the contractor has taken reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the health
care professional meets the requirements of paragraph  64 .

66.2

Where—

66.2.a

the employment or engagement of a health care professional is urgently needed,
and

66.2.b

it is not possible for the contractor to check that the health care
professional meets the requirements referred to in paragraph  62  before
employing or engaging the health care professional,

the contractor may employ or engage the health care professional on a
temporary basis for a single period of up to 7 days while such checks are
undertaken.

66.3

When considering a health care professional’s experience and training for the
purposes of   sub-paragraph   (1)(b), the contractor must, in particular, have
regard to—

66.3.a

any post-graduate or post-registration qualification held by the health care
professional, and

66.3.b

any relevant training undertaken, and any relevant clinical experience gained,
by the health care professional.

###### Clinical references


67

67.1

The contractor may not employ or engage a health care professional to perform
clinical services under the contract (other than an exempt medical
practitioner to whom paragraph  61(3)(e)  applies) unless—

67.1.a

that person has provided two clinical references, relating to two recent posts
(which may include any current post) as a health care professional which
lasted for at least 12 weeks without a significant break or, where this is not
possible, a full explanation of why this is the case and details of
alternative referees, and

67.1.b

the contractor has checked and is satisfied with the references.

67.2

Where—

67.2.a

the employment or engagement of a health care professional is urgently needed,
and

67.2.b

it is not possible for the contractor to obtain and check the references in
accordance with sub-paragraph (1)(b) before employing or engaging that health
care professional,

the contractor may employ or engage the health care professional on a
temporary basis for a single period of up to 14 days while the references are
checked and considered, and for an additional period of a further 7 days if
the contractor believes that the person supplying those references is ill, on
holiday or otherwise temporarily unavailable.

67.3

Where the contractor employs or engages the same person on more than one
occasion within a period of 12 weeks, the contractor may rely on the
references provided on the first occasion, provided that those references are
not more than a year old.

###### Verification of qualifications and competence


68

68.1

The contractor must, before employing or engaging any person—

68.1.a

comply with the Pre-employment Checks Standards in relation to that person,
and

68.1.b

take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the person in question is both
suitably qualified and competent to discharge the duties for which that person
is to be employed or engaged.

68.2

The duty imposed by sub-paragraph (1) is in addition to the duties imposed by
paragraphs  61  to  67 .

68.3

When considering the competence and suitability of any person for the purpose
of sub-paragraph (1), the contractor must have regard, in particular, to—

68.3.a

that person’s academic and vocational qualifications,

68.3.b

that person’s education and training, and

68.3.c

that person’s previous employment or work experience.

###### Training


69

69.1

The contractor must ensure that for any health care professional who is—

69.1.a

performing clinical services under the contract, or

69.1.b

employed or engaged to assist in the performance of such services,

there are in place arrangements for the purpose of maintaining and updating
the health care professional’s skills and knowledge in relation to the
services which they are performing or assisting in performing.

69.2

The contractor must afford to each employee reasonable opportunities to
undertake appropriate training with a view to maintaining that employee’s
competence.

###### Terms and conditions


70

The contractor may only offer employment to a general medical practitioner on
terms and conditions which are no less favourable than those contained in the
“Model terms and conditions of service for a salaried general practitioner
employed by a GMS practice” published by the British Medical Association and
the NHS Confederation as item 1.2 of the supplementary documents to the GMS
contract 2003 .

###### Arrangements for GP Specialty Registrars


71

71.1

The contractor may only employ a GP Specialty Registrar subject to the
conditions in sub-paragraph (2).

71.2

The conditions referred to in sub-paragraph (1) are that the contractor must
not, by reason only of having employed or engaged a GP Specialty Registrar,
reduce the total number of hours that other medical practitioners perform
primary medical services under the contract or that other staff spend
assisting them in the performance of those services.

71.3

A contractor employing a GP Registrar must—

71.3.a

offer the GP Registrar terms of employment in accordance with the rates and
subject to the conditions contained in any directions given by Welsh Ministers
to Local Health Boards under section 12 of the Act (Functions of Local Health
Board) concerning the grants, fees, travelling and other allowances payable to
GP Registrars, and

71.3.b

take into account the guidance contained in the document entitled “A Reference
Guide For Postgraduate Foundation and Specialty Training in the UK” .

###### Notice requirements in respect of relevant prescribers


72

72.1

For the purposes of this paragraph, “a relevant prescriber” is—

72.1.a

an independent nurse prescriber,

72.1.b

a nurse independent prescriber,

72.1.c

a paramedic independent prescriber,

72.1.d

a pharmacist independent prescriber,

72.1.e

a physiotherapist independent prescriber,

72.1.f

a podiatrist or chiropodist independent prescriber,

72.1.g

a supplementary prescriber, or

72.1.h

a therapeutic radiographer independent prescriber.

72.2

The contractor must give notice to the Local Health Board where—

72.2.a

a relevant prescriber is employed or engaged by a contractor to perform
functions which include prescribing,

72.2.b

a relevant prescriber whose functions include prescribing is a party to the
contract, or

72.2.c

the functions of a relevant prescriber whom the contractor already employs or
has already engaged are extended to include prescribing.

72.3

The notice under sub-paragraph (2) must be given in writing to the Local
Health Board before the expiry of the period of 7 days beginning with the date
on which—

72.3.a

the relevant prescriber was employed or engaged by the contractor or, as the
case may be, became a party to the contract (unless, immediately before
becoming such a party,   sub-paragraph   (2)(a) applied to that relevant
prescriber), or

72.3.b

the functions of the relevant prescriber were extended to include prescribing.

72.4

The contractor must give notice to the Local Health Board where—

72.4.a

the contractor ceases to employ or engage a relevant prescriber in the
contractor’s practice whose functions include prescribing in the contractor’s
practice,

72.4.b

a relevant prescriber ceases to be a party to the contract,

72.4.c

the functions of a relevant prescriber employed or engaged by the contractor
in the contractor’s practice are changed so that they no longer include
prescribing in the contractor’s practice, or

72.4.d

the contractor becomes aware that a relevant prescriber whom it employs or
engages has been removed or suspended from the relevant register.

72.5

The notice under sub-paragraph (4) must be given in writing to the Local
Health Board before the end of the second working day after the day on which
an event described in sub-paragraphs (4)(a) to (d) occurred in relation to the
relevant prescriber.

72.6

The contractor must provide the following information when it gives notice to
the Local Health Board in accordance with sub-paragraph (2)—

72.6.a

the person’s full name,

72.6.b

the person’s professional qualifications,

72.6.c

the person’s identifying number which appears in the relevant register,

72.6.d

the date on which the person’s entry in the relevant register was annotated to
the effect that the person was qualified to order drugs, medicines and
appliances for patients,

72.6.e

the date on which—

72.6.e.i

the person was employed or engaged (if applicable),

72.6.e.ii

the person became a party to the contract (if applicable), or

72.6.e.iii

the functions of the person were extended to include prescribing in the
contractor’s practice.

72.7

The contractor must provide the following information when it gives notice to
the Local Health Board in accordance with sub-paragraph (4)—

72.7.a

the person’s full name,

72.7.b

the person’s professional qualifications,

72.7.c

the person’s identifying number which appears in the relevant register,

72.7.d

the date on which—

72.7.d.i

the person ceased to be employed or engaged in the contractor’s practice,

72.7.d.ii

the person ceased to be a party to the contract,

72.7.d.iii

the functions of the person were changed so as to no longer include
prescribing in the contractor’s practice, or

72.7.d.iv

the person was removed or suspended from the relevant register.

###### Signing of documents


73

73.1

The contractor must ensure—

73.1.a

that the documents specified in sub-paragraph (2) include—

73.1.a.i

the clinical profession of the health care professional who signed the
document, and

73.1.a.ii

the name of the contractor on whose behalf the document is signed, and

73.1.b

that the documents specified in sub-paragraph (3) include the clinical
profession of the health care professional who signed the document.

73.2

The documents specified in this sub-paragraph are—

73.2.a

certificates issued in accordance with regulation 19, unless regulations
relating to particular certificates provide otherwise, and

73.2.b

any other clinical documents apart from—

73.2.b.i

home oxygen order forms, and

73.2.b.ii

the documents specified in sub-paragraph (3).

73.3

The documents specified in this paragraph are batch issues, prescription forms
and repeatable prescriptions.

73.4

This paragraph is in addition to any other requirements relating to the
documents specified in sub-paragraphs (2) and (3) whether in these Regulations
or elsewhere.

###### Level of skill and compliance with pathways


74

The contractor must, and the contractor must ensure that those it employs or
engages must—

74.a

carry out the contractor’s obligations under the contract with reasonable care
and skill, and

74.b

consider the application of national condition pathways relevant for each
patient.

###### Appraisal and assessment


75

75.1

The contractor must ensure that any medical practitioner performing services
under the contract—

75.1.a

participates in the appraisal system provided by the Local Health Board unless
that medical practitioner participates in an appropriate appraisal system
provided by another health service body or is an armed forces GP, and

75.1.b

co-operates with the Local Health Board in relation to the Local Health
Board’s patient safety functions.

75.2

The Local Health Board must provide an appraisal system for the purposes of
sub-paragraph (1)(a) after consultation with the Local Medical Committee (if
any) for the area in which the practitioner provides services under the
contract and such other persons as appear to it to be appropriate.

75.3

In   sub-paragraph   (1), “ armed forces GP ” means a medical practitioner who
is employed on a contract of service by the Ministry of Defence, whether or
not as a member of the armed forces of the Crown.

##### Sub-contracting


###### Sub-contracting


76

76.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), the contractor must not sub-contract any of its
rights or duties under the contract in relation to clinical matters, or non-
clinical matters directly affecting patients, unless—

76.1.a

in all cases it has taken reasonable steps to satisfy itself that—

76.1.a.i

it is reasonable in all the circumstances to do so, and

76.1.a.ii

that person to whom any of those rights or duties is sub-contracted is
qualified and competent to provide the service, and

76.1.b

the contractor has given notice in writing to the Local Health Board of its
intention to sub-contract as soon as reasonably practicable before the date on
which the proposed sub-contract is intended to come into effect.

76.2

Sub-paragraph (1)(b) does not apply to—

76.2.a

a contract for services with a health care professional for the provision by
that professional personally of clinical services, or

76.2.b

a contract between the contractor and another practice in the contractor’s GP
Collaborative under which that other practice is to provide, as part of that
GP Collaborative’s activities, primary medical services to the contractor’s
patients.

76.3

A notice given under sub-paragraph (1)(b) must include—

76.3.a

the name and address of the proposed sub-contractor,

76.3.b

the duration of the proposed sub-contract,

76.3.c

the services to be covered by the proposed sub-contract, and

76.3.d

the address of any premises to be used for the provision of services under the
proposed sub-contract.

76.4

On receipt of a notice given under sub-paragraph (1)(b), the Local Health
Board may request further information relating to the proposed sub-contract as
appears to it to be reasonable, and the contractor must supply that
information to the Local Health Board promptly.

76.5

The contractor must not proceed with the sub-contract or, if the sub-contract
has already taken effect, the contractor must take all reasonable steps to
terminate it, where the Local Health Board gives notice in writing of its
objection to the sub-contract on the grounds that—

76.5.a

the sub-contract would—

76.5.a.i

put the safety of the contractor’s patients at risk, or

76.5.a.ii

put the Local Health Board at risk of material financial loss,

76.5.b

the sub-contractor would be unable to meet the contractor’s obligations under
the contract,

and such notice is given by the Local Health Board before the end of the
period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the Local Health Board
received a notice from the contractor under sub-paragraph (1)(b).

76.6

A notice given by the Local Health Board under sub-paragraph (5)(a) must
include a statement of the reasons for the Local Health Board’s objection.

76.7

Sub-paragraphs (1) and (3) to (6) also apply in relation to any renewal or
material variation of a sub-contract in relation to clinical matters.

76.8

Where the notification by the contractor pursuant to sub-paragraph (3) relates
to clinical matters and the Local Health Board does not give notice of an
objection under sub-paragraph (5), the parties to the contract are deemed to
have agreed a variation of the contract which, subject to any notice served
under sub-paragraph (1)(b), has the effect of adding to the list of practice
premises any premises the address of which was notified to the Local Health
Board under sub-paragraph (3)(d) and, in these circumstances, paragraph 109(1)
does not apply.

76.9

Subject to sub-paragraph (10), a sub-contract entered into by a contractor
must prohibit the sub-contractor from sub-contracting any of the clinical
services that it has agreed with the contractor to provide under the sub-
contract.

76.10

A sub-contract entered into by the contractor falling within sub-paragraph
(2)(b) may allow the sub-contractor to sub-contract clinical services provided
the contractor obtains the written approval of the Local Health Board prior to
the sub-contractor sub-contracting those services.

76.11

The contractor must not sub-contract any of its rights or duties under the
contract in relation to the provision of unified services to a company or
firm—

76.11.a

owned wholly or partly by the contractor, or by any former or current employee
of, or partner or shareholder in, the contractor,

76.11.b

formed by or on behalf of the contractor, or from which it derives or may
derive a pecuniary benefit, or

76.11.c

formed by or on behalf of a former or current employee of, or partner or
shareholder in, the contractor, or from which such a person derives or may
derive a pecuniary benefit,

where sub-paragraph (12) applies to that company or firm.

76.12

This sub-paragraph applies to a company or firm which is or was formed wholly
or partly for the purpose of avoiding the restrictions on the sale of goodwill
of a medical practice in regulation 3 of the Primary Medical Services (Sale of
Goodwill and Restrictions on Sub-contracting) (Wales) Regulations 2004 .

###### Withdrawal and variation of approval and right to subsequently object to a sub-contract under paragraph 


77

77.1

Without prejudice to any other remedies which it may have under the contract,
where a Local Health Board is deemed to have approved an application made
under paragraph  76 , it is entitled to serve notice on the contractor
withdrawing or varying that approval with immediate effect if—

77.1.a

it is no longer satisfied that the proposed arrangement enables the contractor
to satisfactorily meet its obligations under the contract, or

77.1.b

it is satisfied that immediate withdrawal of variation is necessary to
protect—

77.1.b.i

the safety of the contractor’s patients, or

77.1.b.ii

the Local Health Board from material financial loss.

77.2

A notice served under this paragraph takes effect on the date on which it is
received by the contractor.

##### Records, information, notifications and rights of entry


###### Patient records


78

78.1

The contractor must keep adequate records of its attendance on and treatment
of its patients and must do so—

78.1.a

on forms supplied to it for the purpose by the Local Health Board, or

78.1.b

with the written consent of the Local Health Board, by way of computerised
records,

or in a combination of those two ways.

78.2

The contractor must include in the records referred to in sub-paragraph (1)
clinical reports sent in accordance with paragraph 10 or from any other health
care professional who has provided clinical services to a person on its list
of patients.

78.3

The consent of the Local Health Board required by sub-paragraph (1)(b) must
not be withheld or withdrawn provided the Local Health Board is satisfied, and
continues to be satisfied, that—

78.3.a

the GP digital services upon which the contractor proposes to keep the records
meet the requirements set out in the National Framework Agreement for GP
Clinical Systems and Services in Wales,

78.3.b

the security measures, audit and system management functions incorporated into
the GP digital services are compliant with the National Framework Agreement
for GP Clinical Systems and Services in Wales have been enabled, and

78.3.c

the contractor is aware of, and has signed an undertaking that it must have
regard to the guidelines contained in “The Good Practice Guidelines for GP
electronic patient records (Version 4)” published on 21 March 2011.

78.4

Where the contractor’s patient records are computerised records, the
contractor must, as soon as possible following a request from the Local Health
Board, allow the Local Health Board to access the information recorded on the
computer system on which those records are held by means of the audit function
referred to in sub-paragraph (3)(b) to the extent necessary for the Local
Health Board to confirm that the audit function is enabled and functioning
correctly.

78.5

Where a patient on the contractor’s list of patients dies, the contractor must
send the complete records relating to that patient to the Local Health Board—

78.5.a

in a case where the contractor was informed by the Local Health Board of that
patient’s death, before the end of the period of 14 days beginning with the
date on which the contractor was so informed, or

78.5.b

in any other case, before the end of the period of 4 weeks beginning with the
date on which the contractor learned of that patient’s death.

78.6

Where a patient on a contractor’s list of patients has registered with another
provider of primary medical services and the contractor receives a request
from that provider for the complete records relating to that patient, the
contractor must, as soon as possible and in any event before the end of the
period of 28 days beginning with the day on which it receives the request from
the provider, send to that provider the complete records (other than any part
held only in paper form), via the GP2GP facility in accordance with paragraph
80  and send to the Local Health Board—

78.6.a

the complete records, or any part of the records, sent via the GP2GP facility
in accordance with paragraph  80  for which the contractor does not receive
confirmation of safe and effective transfer via that facility, and

78.6.b

any part of the records held by the contractor only in paper form.

78.7

Where a patient on a contractor’s list of patients—

78.7.a

is removed from that list at that patient’s request under paragraph 28, or by
reason of the application of any of paragraphs 29 to 36, and

78.7.b

the contractor has not received a request from another provider of medical
services with which that patient has registered for the transfer of the
complete records relating to that patient,

the contractor must send a copy of those records to the Local Health Board.

78.8

Where a contractor’s responsibility for a patient terminates in accordance
with paragraph 37, the contractor must send any records relating to that
patient that it holds to—

78.8.a

if known, the provider of primary medical services with which that patient is
registered, or

78.8.b

in all other cases, the Local Health Board.

78.9

For the purposes of this regulation, “ GP2GP facility ” has the same meaning
as in sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph  80 .

78.10

To the extent that a patient’s records are computerised records, the
contractor complies with sub-paragraphs  (5) ,  (7)  or  (8)  if it sends to
the Local Health Board a copy of those records—

78.10.a

in written form, or

78.10.b

with the written consent of the Local Health Board in any other form.

78.11

The consent of the Local Health Board to the transmission of information other
than in written form for the purposes of sub-paragraph (10)(b) must not be
withheld or withdrawn provided it is satisfied, and continues to be satisfied,
with the following matters—

78.11.a

the contractor’s proposals as to how the record is to be transmitted,

78.11.b

the contractor’s proposals as to the format of the transmitted record,

78.11.c

how the contractor is to ensure that the record received by the Local Health
Board is identical to that transmitted, and

78.11.d

how a written copy of the record can be produced by the Local Health Board.

78.12

A contractor whose patient records are computerised records must not disable,
or attempt to disable, either the security measures or the audit and system
management functions referred to in sub-paragraph (3)(b).

78.13

In this   paragraph , “ computerised records ” means records created by way of
entries on a computer.

###### Welsh GP record


79

79.1

Subject to   sub-paragraph   (2), a contractor must, in any case where there
is a change to the information included in a patient’s medical record, enable
the automated retrieval of summary information from the Welsh GP Record  ...
and the NHS Wales App, when the change occurs, using approved systems provided
to it by the Local Health Board.

79.2

The enabling of automated retrieval of summary information from the   Welsh GP
Record   must be for clinical use.

79.3

In this   paragraph —

“ NHS Wales App ” (“ Ap GIG Cymru ”) means the system managed by Digital
Health and Care Wales for accessing and managing health appointments,
prescriptions and personal details; “ Welsh GP Record ” (“ Cofnod Meddyg Teulu
Cymru ”) means the system approved by the Local Health Board for the automated
retrieval, storing and displaying of patient data relating to medications,
allergies, adverse reactions and, where agreed with the contractor and subject
to the patient’s consent, any other data taken from the patient’s electronic
record; “ summary information ” (“ gwybodaeth gryno ”) means items of patient
data that comprise the Welsh GP Record.

###### Electronic transfer of patient records between GP practices


80

80.1

A contractor must use the   GP2GP facility   for the safe and effective
transfer of any patient records—

80.1.a

in a case where a new patient registers with the contractor’s practice, to the
contractor’s practice from the practice of another provider of primary medical
services (if any) with which the patient was previously registered, or

80.1.b

in a case where the contractor receives a request from another provider of
primary medical services with which the patient has registered, in order to
respond to that request.

80.2

In this   paragraph , “ GP2GP facility ” means the facility provided by the
Local Health Board to a contractor’s practice which enables the electronic
health records of a registered patient which are held on the computerised
clinical systems of a contractor’s practice to be electronically transferred
securely and directly to another provider of primary medical services with
which the patient has registered.

80.3

The requirements of this paragraph do not apply in the case of a temporary
resident.

###### Clinical correspondence: requirement for NHS number


81

81.1

A contractor must include the NHS number of a registered patient as the
primary identifier in all clinical correspondence issued by the contractor
which relates to that patient.

81.2

The requirement in   sub-paragraph   (1) does not apply where, in exceptional
circumstances outside of the contractor’s control, it is not possible for the
contractor to ascertain the patient’s NHS number.

81.3

In this paragraph—

“ clinical correspondence ” (“ gohebiaeth glinigol ”) means all correspondence
in writing, whether in electronic form or otherwise, between the contractor
and other health service providers concerning or arising out of patient
attendance and treatment at practice premises including referrals made by
letter or by any other means; “ NHS number ” (“ rhif GIG ”), in relation to a
registered patient, means the number, consisting of ten numeric digits, which
serves as the national unique identifier used for the purpose of safely,
accurately and efficiently sharing information relating to that patient across
the whole of the health service in Wales.

###### Use of fax machines


82

82.1

Where a contractor can transmit information securely and directly by
electronic means other than facsimile transmission, the contractor must not—

82.1.a

transmit information to a relevant person by facsimile transmission, or

82.1.b

agree to receive any information from a relevant person by facsimile
transmission.

82.2

Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to information which relates solely to a
patient under a private arrangement for the provision of clinical services or
treatment.

82.3

In this paragraph “ relevant person ” means—

82.3.a

an NHS body,

82.3.b

another health service provider,

82.3.c

a patient, or

82.3.d

a person acting on behalf of a patient.

###### Confidentiality of personal data: nominated person


83

The contractor must nominate a person with responsibility for practices and
procedures relating to the confidentiality of personal data held by it.

###### Provision of information to patients


84

84.1

The contractor must—

84.1.a

have an online resource,

84.1.b

provide the information specified in Schedule 4 digitally on the practice’s
online resource and ensure that a written practice leaflet containing the
information specified in Schedule 4 is also available,

84.1.c

review the information provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) at least once every
year, and

84.1.d

make its patients and prospective patients aware of the information contained
on their practice’s online resource or how they can access this information in
a written practice leaflet.

84.2

The contractor must make any amendments necessary to maintain the accuracy of
the information on its online resource following—

84.2.a

a review under sub-paragraph (1)(c),

84.2.b

a change to—

84.2.b.i

the address of any of the contractor’s practice premises,

84.2.b.ii

the contractor’s telephone number,

84.2.b.iii

the contractor’s electronic-mail address (if made available on its online
resource), or

84.2.b.iv

any other stated means by which a patient may contact the contractor to book
or amend an appointment, or to order repeat prescriptions for drugs, medicines
or appliances.

###### Provision of information (or access to information) at the request of the Local Health Board


85

85.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), the contractor must, at the request of the Local
Health Board, produce to the Local Health Board or to a person authorised in
writing by the Local Health Board, or allow the Local Health Board or a person
authorised in writing by it, to access—

85.1.a

any information which is reasonably required by the Local Health Board for the
purposes of or in connection with the contract, and

85.1.b

any other information which is reasonably required in connection with the
Local Health Board functions.

85.2

The contractor is not required to comply with any request made in accordance
with sub-paragraph (1) unless it has been made by the Local Health Board in
accordance with directions relating to the provision of information by
contractors given to it by the Welsh Ministers under section 12(3) of the Act.

85.3

The contractor must produce the information requested, or, as the case may be,
allow the Local Health Board access to that information—

85.3.a

by a date agreed as reasonable between the contractor and the Local Health
Board, or

85.3.b

in the absence of such agreement, within 28 days beginning with the date the
request is made.

###### Clinical audits 

86

86.1

A contractor must record and allow Digital Health and Care Wales to access any
data required by the Local Health Board for the purposes of the National
Clinical Audit and Outcome Review Programme for NHS Wales in accordance with
sub-paragraph   (2).

86.2

The data referred to in sub-paragraph (1) must be appropriately coded by the
contractor using standardised coding and uploaded onto the contractor’s
computerised clinical systems in line with the requirements of guidance
published by Digital Health and Care Wales for these purposes.

86.3

The contractor must permit the extraction of patient level data by Digital
Health and Care Wales for the purpose of undertaking clinical audits included
in the National Clinical Audit and Outcome Review Programme (NCAORP) to
support the management of the health and care system.

86.4

Contractors must consider practice level data from national clinical audits
and take relevant and proportionate action to reduce any significant and
unwarranted variation that is identified.

###### Information relating to indicators no longer in the Quality Assurance and Improvement Framework


87

87.1

A contractor must allow the extraction from the contractor’s computerised
clinical systems by the Local Health Board of the information specified in the
table below (Indicators relocated from the Quality Assurance and Improvement
Framework) at such intervals during each financial year as are notified to the
contractor by the Local Health Board.

87.2

A contractor must—

87.2.a

establish and maintain the registers specified in the clinical indicators
listed in the column “Indicator Description” of the table below (Indicators
relocated from the Quality Assurance and Improvement Framework),

87.2.b

where an indicator specifies a particular statistic, contemporaneously record
the related data as part of chronic disease management, and

87.2.c

where the indicator specifies a particular requirement or activity,
continually record details of the contractor’s compliance with any such
requirements or activities.

Table (Indicators relocated from the Quality Assurance and Improvement
Framework)  Indicator ID Indicator Description AF001 The contractor
establishes and maintains a register of patients with atrial fibrillation
CHD001 The contractor establishes and maintains a register of patients with
coronary heart disease HF001 The contractor establishes and maintains a
register of patients with heart failure HYP001 The contractor establishes and
maintains a register of patients with established hypertension STIA001 The
contractor establishes and maintains a register of patients with stroke or TIA
DM001 The contractor establishes and maintains a register of all patients aged
17 or over with diabetes mellitus, which specifies the type of diabetes where
a diagnosis has been confirmed AST001 The contractor establishes and maintains
a register of patients with asthma, excluding patients with asthma who have
been prescribed no asthma-related drugs in the preceding 12 months COPD001 The
contractor establishes and maintains a register of patients with COPD DEM001
The contractor establishes and maintains a register of patients diagnosed with
dementia MH001 The contractor establishes and maintains a register of patients
with schizophrenia, bipolar affective disorder and other psychoses and other
patients on lithium therapy CAN001 The contractor establishes and maintains a
register of all cancer patients defined as a ‘register of patients with a
diagnosis of cancer excluding non-melanotic skin cancers diagnosed on or after
1 April 2003’ EP001 The contractor establishes and maintains a register of
patients aged 18 or over receiving drug treatment for epilepsy LD001 The
contractor establishes and maintains a register of patients with learning
disabilities OST001 The contractor establishes and maintains a register of
patients— 1. Aged 50 or over and who have not attained the age of 75 with a
record of a fragility fracture on or after 1 April 2012 and a diagnosis of
osteoporosis confirmed on DXA scan, and 2. Aged 75 or over with a record of a
fragility fracture on or after 1 April 2012 RA001 The contractor establishes
and maintains a register of patients aged 16 or over with rheumatoid arthritis
PC001 The contractor establishes and maintains a register of all patients in
need of palliative care/support irrespective of age OB001 The contractor
establishes and maintains a register of patients aged 16 or over with a BMI of
30 in the preceding 15 months. AF006 The percentage of patient with atrial
fibrillation in whom stroke risk has been assessed using CHA2DS2-VASx score
risk stratification scoring system in the preceding 3 years (excluding those
patients with a previous CHADS2 or CHA2DS2-VASc score of 2 or more) and a
record of counselling regarding the risks and benefits of anticoagulation
therapy has been made AF007 In those patients with atrial fibrillation with a
record of a CHA2DS2-VASc score of 2 or more, the percentage of patients who
are currently treated with anticoagulation drug therapy DM002 The percentage
of patients with diabetes, on the register, in whom the last blood pressure
reading (measured in the preceding 15 months) is 150/90 mmHg or less DM003 The
percentage of patients with diabetes, on the register, in whom the last blood
pressure reading (measured in the preceding 15 months) is 140/80 mmHg or less
DM007 The percentage of patients with diabetes, on the register, in whom the
last IFCC-HbA1c is 59 mmol/mol or less in the preceding 15 months DM012 The
percentage of patients with diabetes, on the register, with a record of a foot
examination and risk classification; 1) low risk (normal sensation, palpable
pulse), 2) increased risk (neuropathy or absent pulses), 3) high risk
(neuropathy or absent pulses plus deformity or skin changes in previous ulcer)
or 4) ulcerated foot within the preceding 15 months DM014 The percentage of
patients newly   diagnosed   with diabetes, on the register, in the preceding
1 April to 31 March who have a record of being referred to a structured
education programme within 9 months after entry on to the diabetes register
COPD003 The percentage of patients with COPD who have had a review, undertaken
by a healthcare professional, including an assessment of breathlessness using
the Medical Research Council dyspnoea scale in the preceding 15 months MH011W
The percentage of patients with Schizophrenia, Bipolar affective disorder and
other psychoses who have a record of blood pressure, BMI, smoking status and
alcohol consumption in the preceding 15 months and in addition to those aged
40 or over, a record of blood glucose or HbA1c in the preceding 15 months
PC002W The contractor has regular (at least 2 monthly) multi-disciplinary case
review meetings where all patients on the palliative care register are
discussed FLU001W The percentage of the registered population aged 65 years or
more who have had influenza immunisation in the preceding 1 August to 31 March
FLU002W The percentage of patients aged under 65 years included in (any of)
the registers for CHD, COPD, Diabetes or Stroke who have had influenza
immunisation in the preceding 1 August to 31 March

###### The Wales National Workforce Reporting System


88

88.1

The contractor must update the workforce elements of the Wales National
Workforce Reporting System to include—

88.1.a

head count and whole-time equivalents, and

88.1.b

a record of all new starters and leavers.

88.2

The contractor must access, review and (if necessary) update their Wales
National Workforce Reporting System dashboard view at least once per month.

###### General Practice Escalation Tool


89

The contractor must enter their escalation submission in the General Practice
Escalation Tool by 3.30pm on the last working day of each month and also on
each occasion that there is a significant change in practice circumstances.

###### Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency Central Alerting System


90

A contractor must—

90.a

provide to the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (“the
MHRA”) on request, an electronic mail address which is registered to the
contractor’s practice,

90.b

monitor that address,

90.c

if that address ceases to be registered to the practice, notify the MHRA
immediately of its new electronic mail address, and

90.d

provide to the MHRA on request, one or more mobile telephone numbers for use
in the event that the contractor is unable to receive electronic mail.

###### Inquiries about prescriptions and referrals


91

91.1

The contractor must, subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), sufficiently
answer any inquiries whether they are oral or in writing from the Local Health
Board concerning—

91.1.a

any prescription form or repeatable prescription issued by a prescriber,

91.1.b

the considerations by reference to which prescribers issue such forms,

91.1.c

the referral by or on behalf of the contractor of any patient to any other
services provided under the Act, or

91.1.d

the considerations by which the contractor makes such referrals or provides
for them to be made on its behalf.

91.2

An inquiry referred to in sub-paragraph (1) may only be made for the purpose
either of obtaining information to assist the Local Health Board to discharge
its functions or of assisting the contractor in the discharge of its
obligations under the contract.

91.3

The contractor is not obliged to answer any inquiry referred to in sub-
paragraph (1) unless it is made—

91.3.a

in the case of sub-paragraph (1)(a) or (b), by an appropriately qualified
health care professional, or

91.3.b

in the case of sub-paragraph (1)(c) or (d), by an appropriately qualified
medical practitioner.

91.4

The appropriately qualified person referred to in   sub-paragraph   (3)(a) or
(b) must—

91.4.a

be appointed by the Local Health Board in either case to assist it in the
exercise of its functions under this paragraph, and

91.4.b

produce, on request, written evidence of that person’s authority from the
Local Health Board to make such an inquiry on the Local Health Board’s behalf.

###### Provision of information to a medical officer etc.


92

92.1

The contractor must, if satisfied that the patient consents—

92.1.a

supply in writing to any person specified in sub-paragraph (3) (a “relevant
person”), within such reasonable period as that person may specify, such
clinical information as any of the persons mentioned in sub-paragraph (3)(a)
to (d) considers relevant about a patient to whom the contractor or a person
acting on behalf of the contractor has issued or has refused to issue a
medical certificate, and

92.1.b

answer any inquiries by a relevant person about—

92.1.b.i

a prescription form or medical certificate issued or created by, or on behalf
of, the contractor, or

92.1.b.ii

any statement which the contractor or a person acting on behalf of the
contractor has made in a report.

92.2

For the purposes of being satisfied that a patient consents, a contractor may
rely on an assurance in writing from a relevant person that the consent of the
patient has been obtained, unless the contractor has reason to believe that
the patient does not consent.

92.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1) and (2), a “relevant person” is—

92.3.a

a medical officer,

92.3.b

a nursing officer,

92.3.c

an occupational therapist,

92.3.d

a physiotherapist, or

92.3.e

an officer of the Department for Work and Pensions who is acting on behalf of,
and at the direction of, any person specified in paragraphs (a) to (d).

92.4

In this paragraph—

“ medical officer ” (“ swyddog meddygol ”) means a medical practitioner who
is— employed or engaged by the Department for Work and Pensions, or provided
by an organisation under a contract entered into with the Secretary of State
for Work and Pensions;   “ nursing officer ” (“ swyddog nyrsio ”) means a
health care professional who is registered on the Nursing and Midwifery
Register and who is— employed by the Department for Work and Pensions, or
provided by an organisation under a contract with the Secretary of State for
Work and Pensions;   “ occupational therapist ” (“ therapydd galwedigaethol ”)
means a health care professional who is registered in the part of the register
maintained by the Health Professions Council under article 5 of the Health
Professions Order 2001 (establishment and maintenance of register) relating to
occupational therapists and who is— employed or engaged by the Department for
Work and Pensions, or provided by an organisation under a contract entered
into with the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions; “ physiotherapist ” (“
ffisiotherapydd ”) means a health care professional who is registered in the
part of the register maintained by the Health Professions Council under
article 5 of the Health Professions Order 2001 (establishment and maintenance
of register) relating to physiotherapists and who is— employed or engaged by
the Department for Work and Pensions, or provided by an organisation under a
contract entered into with the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions.

###### Annual return and review


93

93.1

The contractor must submit an annual return relating to the contract to the
Local Health Board which requires the same categories of information from all
persons who hold contracts with that Local Health Board.

93.2

The Local Health Board may request a return relating to the contract at any
time during each financial year in relation to such period (not including any
period covered by a previous annual return) as may be specified in the
request.

93.3

The contractor must submit the completed return to the Local Health Board—

93.3.a

by a date agreed as reasonable between the contractor and the Local Health
Board, or

93.3.b

in the absence of such agreement, before the end of the period of 28 days
beginning with the date on which the request was made.

93.4

Following receipt of the return referred to in sub-paragraph (1), the Local
Health Board must arrange with the contractor an annual review of its
performance in relation to the contract.

93.5

The contractor or the Local Health Board may, if desired, invite the Local
Medical Committee (if any) for the area in which the contractor is providing
services under the contract to participate in the annual review.

93.6

The Local Health Board must prepare a draft record of the review referred to
in sub-paragraph (4) for comment by the contractor and, having regard to such
comments, produce a final written record of the review.

93.7

The Local Health Board must send a copy of the final record of the review
referred to in   sub-paragraph   (6) to the contractor.

###### Notifications to the Local Health Board


94

94.1

In addition to any requirements of notification elsewhere in these
Regulations, the contractor must notify the Local Health Board in writing, as
soon as reasonably practicable, of—

94.1.a

any serious incident that, in the reasonable opinion of the contractor,
affects or is likely to affect the contractor’s performance of its obligations
under the contract;

94.1.b

any circumstances which give rise to the Local Health Board’s right to
terminate the contract under Part 11;

94.1.c

any appointments system which it proposes to operate and the proposed
discontinuance of any such system;

94.1.d

any change of which the contractor is aware in the address of a registered
patient;

94.1.e

the death of any patient of which the contractor is aware.

94.2

The contractor must, unless it is impracticable for it to do so, notify the
Local Health Board in writing within 28 days of any occurrence requiring a
change in the information about it published by the Local Health Board in
accordance with regulations made under section 41 of the Act (primary medical
services).

94.3

The contractor must notify the Local Health Board in writing of any person
other than a registered patient or a person whom it has accepted as a
temporary resident to whom it has provided the unified services described in
regulation 17(7) or (9) within the period of 28 days beginning on the day that
the services were provided.

###### Co-operation with the Local Health Board


95

The Contractor must co-operate with the Local Health Board in the discharge of
any of the Local Health Board’s obligations, or the obligations of the Local
Health Board’s accountable officers, under the Controlled Drugs (Supervision
of Management and Use) (Wales) Regulations 2008 .

###### Notice provisions specific to a contract with a company limited by shares


96

96.1

Where a contractor is a company limited by shares, the contractor must give
notice in writing to the Local Health Board as soon as—

96.1.a

the contractor is aware of any proposal for—

96.1.a.i

any share in the company to be transmitted or transferred (whether legally or
beneficially) to another person, or

96.1.a.ii

a new director or secretary of the company to be appointed,

96.1.b

circumstances arise which may entitle a creditor or a court to appoint a
receiver, administrator or administrative receiver in respect of the company,

96.1.c

circumstances arise which would enable the court to make a winding up order in
respect of the company,

96.1.d

a company resolution is passed, or a court of competent jurisdiction makes an
order, that the company is to be wound up, or

96.1.e

the company is unable to pay its debts within the meaning of section 123 of
the Insolvency Act 1986  (definition of inability to pay debts).

96.2

A notice under sub-paragraph (1)(a) must confirm that any proposed new
shareholder or, as the case may be, the personal representative of a deceased
shareholder—

96.2.a

is either—

96.2.a.i

a medical practitioner, or

96.2.a.ii

a person who satisfies the conditions specified in section 44(2)(b)(i) to (iv)
of the Act (persons eligible to enter into GMS contracts), and

96.2.b

meets the further conditions imposed on shareholders by virtue of regulations
5 and 6.

96.3

A notice under sub-paragraph (1)(a) must confirm that any proposed new
director or, as the case may be, secretary meets the conditions imposed on
directors and secretaries by virtue of regulation 6.

###### Notice provisions specific to a contract with two or more individuals practising in partnership


97

97.1

Where a contractor is a partnership, the contractor must give notice in
writing to the Local Health Board as soon as—

97.1.a

any partner in the partnership—

97.1.a.i

leaves the partnership, or

97.1.a.ii

informs the other partners in the partnership that they intend to leave the
partnership, or

97.1.b

a new partner joins the partnership.

97.2

A notice under sub-paragraph (1)(a) must confirm the date on which the partner
left or proposes to leave the partnership.

97.3

A notice under sub-paragraph (1)(b) must—

97.3.a

state the date on which the new partner joined the partnership,

97.3.b

confirm that the new partner is—

97.3.b.i

a medical practitioner, or

97.3.b.ii

a person who satisfies the conditions specified in section 44(2)(b)(i) to (iv)
of the Act (persons eligible to enter into GMS contracts),

97.3.c

confirm that the new partner meets the conditions imposed by regulations 5 and
6, and

97.3.d

state whether the new partner is a general or a limited partner in the
partnership.

###### Notification of deaths


98

98.1

The contractor must report in writing to the Local Health Board the death on
its practice premises of any patient no later than the end of the first
working day after the date on which the death occurred.

98.2

The report must include—

98.2.a

the patient’s full name,

98.2.b

the patient’s National Health Service number where known,

98.2.c

the date and place of the patient’s death,

98.2.d

a brief description of the circumstances, as known, surrounding the patient’s
death,

98.2.e

the name of any medical practitioner or other person treating the patient
while the patient was on the contractor’s practice premises, and

98.2.f

the name, where known, of any other person who was present at the time of the
patient’s death.

98.3

The contractor must send a copy of the report referred to in sub-paragraph (1)
to any other Local Health Board in whose area the deceased was resident at the
time of the deceased’s death.

###### Notifications to patients following variation of the contract


99

99.1

This paragraph applies where a contract is varied in accordance with Part 11
of this Schedule and, as a result of that variation—

99.1.a

there is to be a change in the range of services provided to the contractor’s
registered patients, or

99.1.b

patients who are on the contractor’s list of patients are to be removed from
that list.

99.2

Where this paragraph applies, the Local Health Board must—

99.2.a

give notice in writing to those patients of the variation and of its effect,
and

99.2.b

inform those patients of the steps that they may take to—

99.2.b.i

obtain the services in question elsewhere, or

99.2.b.ii

register elsewhere for the provision to them of unified services (or their
equivalent).

###### Entry and Inspection by the Local Health Board


100

100.1

Subject to the conditions in sub-paragraph (2), the contractor must allow any
persons authorised in writing by the Local Health Board to enter and inspect
the contractor’s practice premises at any reasonable time.

100.2

The conditions referred to in sub-paragraph (1) are that—

100.2.a

reasonable notice of the intended entry has been given,

100.2.b

written evidence of the authority of the person seeking entry is produced to
the contractor on request, and

100.2.c

entry is not made to any premises or part of the premises used as residential
accommodation without the consent of the resident.

100.3

The contractor or the Local Health Board or a person authorised in writing by
the Local Health Board may invite the Local Medical Committee (if any) for the
area in which the contractor provides services under the contract to be
present at any inspection of the contractor’s practice premises which takes
place under this paragraph.

##### Concerns, complaints and investigations


###### Concerns and complaints


101

The contractor must establish and operate arrangements which meet the
requirements of the National Health Service (Concerns, Complaints and Redress
Arrangements) (Wales) Regulations 2011  to deal with any concerns or
complaints about any matter reasonably connected with the provision of
services under the contract.

###### Co-operation with investigations


102

102.1

The contractor must co-operate with—

102.1.a

any investigation of a complaint or a concern notified in accordance with the
National Health Service (Concerns, Complaints and Redress Arrangements)
(Wales) Regulations 2011 in relation to any matter reasonably connected with
the provision of services under the contract undertaken by—

102.1.a.i

the Local Health Board,

102.1.a.ii

the Welsh Ministers,

102.1.a.iii

the Public Services Ombudsman for Wales, and

102.1.b

any investigation of a complaint or a concern notified in accordance with the
National Health Service (Concerns, Complaints and Redress Arrangements)
(Wales) Regulations 2011 by an NHS body or local authority which relates to a
patient or former patient of the contractor.

102.2

The co-operation required by sub-paragraph (1) includes—

102.2.a

answering questions reasonably put to the contractor by the Local Health
Board,

102.2.b

providing any information relating to the complaint or a concern notified in
accordance with the National Health Service (Concerns, Complaints and Redress
Arrangements) (Wales) Regulations 2011 reasonably required by the Local Health
Board, and

102.2.c

attending any meeting to consider the complaint or a concern notified in
accordance with the National Health Service (Concerns, Complaints and Redress
Arrangements) (Wales) Regulations 2011 (if held at a reasonably accessible
place and at a reasonable hour, and due notice has been given) if the
contractor’s presence at the meeting is reasonably required by the Local
Health Board.

102.3

In this paragraph—

“ NHS body ” (“ corff GIG ”) means a Local Health Board, (in England and Wales
and Scotland) an NHS trust, an NHS foundation trust, an Integrated Care Board,
NHS England, a Health Board, a Health and Social Services Board or a Health
and Social Care Trust; “ local authority ” (“ awdurdod lleol ”) means— any of
the bodies listed in section 1 of the Local Authority Social Services Act 1970
(local authorities) (constitution of councils), the Council of the Isles of
Scilly, a council constituted under section 2 of the Local Government etc
(Scotland) Act 1994 (constitution of councils), or a council of a county or
county borough in Wales.

###### Provision of information about complaints


103

The contractor must inform the Local Health Board, at such intervals as
required, of the number of complaints it has received under the procedure
established in accordance with this Part.

##### Dispute resolution


###### Local resolution of contract disputes


104

104.1

The contractor and the Local Health Board must make reasonable efforts to
communicate and co-operate with each other with a view to resolving any
dispute which arises out of or in connection with the contract before
referring the dispute for determination in accordance with the NHS dispute
resolution procedure (or, where applicable, before commencing court
proceedings).

104.2

Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to a dispute relating to the assignment of
patients to a closed list which falls to be determined under the NHS dispute
resolution procedure by virtue of paragraph 46(1) where it is not practicable
for the parties to attempt local resolution before the expiry of the period of
7 days specified in paragraph  46(4) .

104.3

The contractor or the Local Health Board may invite the Local Medical
Committee (if any) for the area in which the contractor is providing services
under the contract to participate in discussions which take place by virtue of
sub-paragraph (1).

###### Dispute resolution: non-NHS contracts


105

105.1

In the case of a contract that is not an NHS contract, any dispute arising out
of or in connection with the contract, except matters dealt with under the
procedures for notifying concerns or complaints pursuant to Part 9 of this
Schedule, may be referred for consideration and determination to the Welsh
Ministers—

105.1.a

if it relates to a period when the contractor was treated as a health service
body, by the contractor or by the Local Health Board, or

105.1.b

in any other case, by the contractor or, if the contractor agrees in writing,
by the Local Health Board.

105.2

In the case of a dispute referred to the Welsh Ministers under sub-paragraph
(1)—

105.2.a

the procedure to be followed is the NHS dispute resolution procedure, and

105.2.b

the parties agree to be bound by any determination made by the adjudicator.

###### NHS dispute resolution procedure


106

106.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), the procedure specified in the following sub-
paragraphs and paragraph  107  applies in the case of any dispute arising out
of or in connection with the contract which is referred to the Welsh
Ministers—

106.1.a

in accordance with section 7(6) of the Act (where the contract is an NHS
contract), or

106.1.b

in accordance with paragraph 105(1) (where the contract is not an NHS
contract).

106.2

The procedure specified in this paragraph does not apply where a contractor
refers a matter for determination in accordance with paragraph 46, and in such
a case the procedure specified in that paragraph applies instead.

106.3

Any party wishing to refer a dispute as mentioned in sub-paragraph (1) must
send to the Welsh Ministers a written request for dispute resolution which
must include or be accompanied by—

106.3.a

the names and addresses of the parties to the dispute,

106.3.b

a copy of the contract, and

106.3.c

a brief statement describing the nature of, and circumstances giving rise to,
the dispute.

106.4

Any party wishing to refer a dispute as mentioned in sub-paragraph (1) must
send the request under sub-paragraph (3) within a period of 3 years beginning
with the date on which the matter giving rise to the dispute happened or
should reasonably have come to the attention of the party wishing to refer the
dispute.

106.5

Where the dispute relates to a contract which is not an NHS contract, the
Welsh Ministers may determine the matter themselves or, if the Welsh Ministers
consider it appropriate, appoint a person or persons to consider and determine
it.

106.6

Before reaching a decision as to who should determine the dispute, either
under sub-paragraph (5) or under section 7(8) of the Act, the Welsh Ministers
must, within the period of 7 days beginning with the date on which a matter
under dispute was referred to it, send a written request to the parties to
make in writing, within a specified period, any representations which they may
wish to make about the matter under dispute.

106.7

The Welsh Ministers must give, with the notice given under sub-paragraph (6),
to the party other than the one which referred the matter to dispute
resolution a copy of any document by which the matter was referred to dispute
resolution.

106.8

The Welsh Ministers must give a copy of any representation received from a
party to the other party and must in each case request (in writing) a party to
whom a copy of the representations is given to make within a specified period
any written observations which it wishes to make on those representations.

106.9

Following receipt of any representations from the parties or, if earlier  ,
at the end of the period for making such representations specified in the
request sent under sub-paragraph (6) or (8), the Welsh Ministers must, if they
decide to appoint a person or persons to hear the dispute—

106.9.a

inform the parties in writing of the name of the person or persons whom it has
appointed, and

106.9.b

pass to the person or persons so appointed any documents received from the
parties under or pursuant to sub-paragraph (3), (6) or (8).

106.10

For the purpose of assisting the adjudicator in the consideration of the
matter, the adjudicator may—

106.10.a

invite representatives of the parties to appear before the adjudicator to make
oral representations either together or, with the agreement of the parties,
separately, and may in advance provide the parties with a list of matters or
questions to which the adjudicator wishes them to give special consideration,
or

106.10.b

consult other persons whose expertise the adjudicator considers can assist in
the consideration of the matter.

106.11

Where the adjudicator consults another person under sub-paragraph (10)(b), the
adjudicator must notify the parties accordingly in writing and, where the
adjudicator considers that the interests of any party might be substantially
affected by the result of the consultation, the adjudicator must give to the
parties such opportunity as the adjudicator considers reasonable in the
circumstances to make observations on those results.

106.12

In considering the matter, the adjudicator must consider—

106.12.a

any written representations made in response to a request under sub-paragraph
(6), but only if they are made within the specified period,

106.12.b

any written observations made in response to a request under sub-paragraph
(8), but only if they are made within the specified period,

106.12.c

any oral representations made in response to an invitation under sub-paragraph
(10)(a),

106.12.d

the results of any consultation under sub-paragraph (10)(b), and

106.12.e

any observations made in accordance with an opportunity given under sub-
paragraph (11).

106.13

In this paragraph, “ specified period ” means such period as the Welsh
Ministers specify in the request, being not less than 2, nor more than 4,
weeks beginning with the date on which the notice referred to is given, but
the Welsh Ministers may, if they consider that there is good reason for doing
so, extend any such period (even after it has expired) and, where they do so,
a reference in this paragraph to the specified period is to the period as so
extended.

106.14

Subject to the other provisions of this paragraph and paragraph  107  and to
any agreement by the parties, the adjudicator has wide discretion in
determining the procedure of the dispute resolution to ensure the just,
expeditious, economical and final determination of the dispute.

###### Determination of the dispute


107

107.1

The determination of the adjudicator and the reasons for it, must be recorded
in writing and the adjudicator must give notice of the determination
(including the record of the reasons) to the parties.

107.2

Where a dispute in relation to a contract is referred for determination in
accordance with paragraph 105(1)—

107.2.a

section 7(12) and (13)   of  the Act apply in the same manner as those
subsections apply to a dispute referred for determination in accordance with
section 7(6) or (7) of the Act, and

107.2.b

section 48(5) of the Act applies to any dispute referred for determination in
relation to a contract which is not an NHS contract as if it were referred for
determination in accordance with section 7(6) of the Act.

###### Interpretation of this Part


108

108.1

In this Part, “ any dispute arising out of or in connection with the contract
” includes any dispute arising out of or in connection with the termination of
the contract.

108.2

Any term of the contract that makes provision in respect of the requirements
in this Part is to survive even where the contract has terminated.

##### Variation and termination of contracts


###### Variation of a contract: general


109

109.1

Subject to  sub-paragraph (2) and   paragraphs  76(8) ,  110 ,  111  and  124
of this Schedule no amendment or variation has effect unless it is in writing
and signed by or on behalf of the Local Health Board and the contractor.

109.2

In addition to the specific provision made in paragraphs  110(6) ,  111(11) ,
and  124  the Local Health Board may vary the contract without the
contractor’s consent where it—

109.2.a

is reasonably satisfied that it is necessary to vary the contract so as to
comply with the Act, any regulations made pursuant to that Act, or any
direction given by the Welsh Ministers pursuant to that Act, and

109.2.b

notifies the contractor in writing of the wording of the proposed variation
and the date upon which that variation is to take effect, and

where it is reasonably practicable to do so, the date that the proposed
variation is to take effect must not be less than 14 days after the date on
which the notice under paragraph (b) is served on the contractor.

###### Variation provisions specific to a contract with an individual medical practitioner


110

110.1

If a contractor which is an individual medical practitioner proposes to
practise in partnership with one or more persons during the existence of the
contract, the contractor must notify the Local Health Board in writing of—

110.1.a

the name of the person or persons with whom it proposes to practise in
partnership, and

110.1.b

the date on which the contractor wishes to change its status as a contractor
from that of an individual medical practitioner to that of a partnership which
must not be less than 28 days after the date upon which it has served the
notice on the Local Health Board pursuant to this sub-paragraph.

110.2

A notice under sub-paragraph (1) must in respect of the person or each of the
persons with whom the contractor is proposing to practise in partnership, and
also in respect of itself as regards the matters specified in paragraph (c)—

110.2.a

confirm that the person is either—

110.2.a.i

a medical practitioner, or

110.2.a.ii

a person who satisfies the conditions specified in section 44(2)(b)(i) to (iv)
of the Act,

110.2.b

confirm that the person satisfies the conditions imposed by regulations 5 and
6,

110.2.c

state whether the partnership is to be a general partnership or a limited
partnership and give the names of the limited partners and the general
partners in the partnership, and

the notice must be signed by the individual medical practitioner and by the
person, or each of the persons (as the case may be), with whom the medical
practitioner is proposing to practise in partnership.

110.3

The contractor must ensure that any person who is to practise in partnership
with it is bound by the contract, whether by virtue of a partnership agreement
or otherwise.

110.4

If the Local Health Board is satisfied as to the accuracy of the matters
specified in sub-paragraph (2) that are included in the notice, the Local
Health Board must give notice in writing to the contractor confirming that the
contract continues with the partnership entered into by the contractor and its
partners, from a date that the Local Health Board specifies in that notice.

110.5

Where it is reasonably practicable, the date specified by the Local Health
Board pursuant to sub-paragraph (4) is the date requested in the notice served
by the contractor pursuant to sub-paragraph (1), or, where that date is not
reasonably practicable, the date specified is to be a date after the requested
date that is as close to the requested date as is reasonably practicable.

110.6

Where a contractor has given notice to the Local Health Board pursuant to sub-
paragraph (1), the Local Health Board—

110.6.a

may vary the contract but only to the extent that it is satisfied it is
necessary to reflect the change in status of the contractor from an individual
medical practitioner to a partnership, and

110.6.b

if it does propose to so vary the contract, it must include in the notice
served on the contractor pursuant to sub-paragraph (4) the wording of the
proposed variation and the date upon which that variation is to take effect.

###### Variation provisions specific to a contract with two or more individuals practising in partnership


111

111.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (4), where a contractor consists of two or more
individuals practising in partnership  ,  in the event that the partnership is
terminated or dissolved, the contract continues with that partnership unless
the contract is terminated by the contractor or Local Health Board under the
provisions of this Part and the contract may only continue with just one of
the former partners if that partner is—

111.1.a

nominated in accordance with sub-paragraph (3), and

111.1.b

a medical practitioner who meets the condition in regulation 5(1)(a),

and provided that the requirements in sub-paragraphs (2) and (3) are met.

111.2

A contractor must notify the Local Health Board in writing at least 28 days in
advance of the date on which the contractor proposes to change its status from
that of a partnership to that of an individual medical practitioner pursuant
to sub-paragraph (1).

111.3

A notice under sub-paragraph (2) must—

111.3.a

specify the date on which the contractor proposes to change its status from
that of a partnership to that of an individual medical practitioner,

111.3.b

specify the name of the medical practitioner with whom the contract is to
continue, which must be one of the partners, and

111.3.c

be signed by all of the persons who are practising in partnership.

111.4

Where a contractor consists of two persons practising in partnership  ,  and
the partnership is terminated or dissolved because one of the partners has
died, the remaining partner in the partnership must give notice in writing to
the Local Health Board of that death as soon as is reasonably practicable and,
in that case, sub-paragraphs (5) and (6) apply.

111.5

If the remaining partner in the partnership is a general medical practitioner,
the contract is to continue with that general medical practitioner.

111.6

If the remaining partner in the partnership is not a general medical
practitioner, the Local Health Board—

111.6.a

must enter into discussions with that partner and use reasonable endeavours to
reach an agreement to enable the provision of clinical services to continue
under the contract,

111.6.b

may, if it considers it appropriate, consult the Local Medical Committee (if
any) for the area in which the partnership was providing clinical services
under the contract or such other person as the Local Health Board considers
necessary,

111.6.c

may, if it considers it appropriate to enable the provision of clinical
services under the contract to continue, offer the remaining partner in the
partnership reasonable support, and

111.6.d

must give notice to the remaining partner in the partnership if agreement has
been reached in accordance with sub-paragraph (7) or, in the event that
agreement cannot be reached, in accordance with sub-paragraph (8).

111.7

If the Local Health Board reaches an agreement, the Local Health Board must
give notice in writing to the remaining partner in the partnership confirming—

111.7.a

the terms upon which the Local Health Board agrees to the contract continuing
with that partner including the period, as specified by the Local Health
Board, during which the contract is to continue (“the interim period”) and
such a period must not exceed 6 months,

111.7.b

that the partner agrees to the employment or engagement of a general medical
practitioner for the interim period to assist in the provision of clinical
services under the contract, and

111.7.c

the support, if any, which the Local Health Board is to provide to enable the
provision of clinical services under the contract to continue during the
interim period.

111.8

If—

111.8.a

the remaining partner in the partnership does not wish to employ or engage a
medical practitioner,

111.8.b

an agreement in accordance with sub-paragraph (6) cannot be reached, or

111.8.c

the remaining partner in the partnership would like to withdraw from the
agreed arrangements at any stage during the interim period,

the Local Health Board must give notice in writing to that partner terminating
the contract with immediate effect.

111.9

If, at the end of the interim period, the contractor has not entered into
partnership with a general medical practitioner who is not a limited partner
in the partnership, the Local Health Board must give notice in writing to the
contractor terminating the contract with immediate effect.

111.10

Where a contractor gives notice to the Local Health Board under sub-paragraph
(2) or (4), the Local Health Board must—

111.10.a

acknowledge receipt of the notice in writing, and

111.10.b

in relation to a notice given under sub-paragraph (2), acknowledge receipt of
the notice before the date specified in accordance with sub-paragraph (3)(a).

111.11

Where a contractor gives notice to the Local Health Board under sub-paragraph
(2) or (4), the Local Health Board may vary the contract but only to the
extent that it is satisfied it is necessary to reflect the change in status of
the contractor from that of a partnership to an individual medical
practitioner.

111.12

If the Local Health Board varies the contract under sub-paragraph (11), the
Local Health Board must give notice in writing to the contractor of the
wording of the proposed variation and the date upon which that variation is to
take effect.

111.13

In this paragraph “ general medical practitioner ” has the same meaning as in
regulation 5(1).

111.14

Sub-paragraphs (5) to (9) do not affect any other right which the Local Health
Board may have under the contract to vary or terminate the contract.

###### Termination by agreement


112

The Local Health Board and the contractor may agree in writing to terminate
the contract, and if the parties so agree, they must agree the date upon which
that termination is to take effect and any further terms upon which the
contract should be terminated.

###### Termination on the death of an individual medical practitioner


113

113.1

Where the contractor is an individual medical practitioner and the contractor
dies, the contract terminates at the end of the period of 7 days beginning
with the date of the contractor’s death unless, before the end of that period
sub-paragraph (2) applies.

113.2

This sub-paragraph applies where—

113.2.a

the Local Health Board agrees in writing with the contractor’s personal
representatives that the contract is to continue for a further period, not
exceeding 28 days, from the end of the period of 7 days, and

113.2.b

the contractor’s personal representatives confirm in writing to the Local
Health Board that they wish to employ or engage one or more general medical
practitioners to assist in the continuation of the provision of clinical
services under the contract and, after discussion with the Local Health Board—

113.2.b.i

the Local Health Board agrees to provide reasonable support which would enable
clinical services under the contract to continue;

113.2.b.ii

the Local Health Board and the contractor’s personal representatives agree the
terms on which the provision of clinical services can continue; and

113.2.b.iii

the Local Health Board and the contractor’s personal representatives agree the
period during which clinical services must be provided being a period of not
more than 28 days beginning on the day after the end of the period of 7 days
referred to in sub-paragraph (1).

113.3

This paragraph does not affect any other rights to terminate the contract
which the Local Health Board or contractor may have.

###### Termination by the contractor


114

114.1

A contractor may terminate the contract by serving notice in writing on the
Local Health Board at any time.

114.2

Where a contractor serves notice pursuant to sub-paragraph (1), the contract
must, subject to sub-paragraph (3), terminate 6 months after the date on which
the notice is served (“ the termination date ”), save that if the termination
date is not the last calendar day of a month, the contract must instead
terminate on the last calendar day of the month in which the termination date
falls.

114.3

Where the contractor is an individual medical practitioner and sub-paragraph
(2) applies to the contractor, the Local Health Board has discretion to agree
an earlier termination date if exceptional circumstances exist which make it
reasonable for the termination date to be brought forward. If the termination
date is to be brought forward, this date is to be agreed by the Local Health
Board and the contractor.

114.4

This paragraph is without prejudice to any other rights to terminate the
contract that the Local Health Board or contractor may have.

###### Late payment notices


115

115.1

The contractor may give notice in writing (a “late payment notice”) to the
Local Health Board if the Local Health Board has failed to make any payments
due to the contractor in accordance with any term of the contract regarding
prompt payment which has the effect specified in regulation 20(1) and the
contractor must specify in the late payment notice the payments that the Local
Health Board has failed to make in accordance with that regulation.

115.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (3), the contractor may, at least 28 days after
having served a late payment notice, terminate the contract by a further
written notice if the Local Health Board has still failed to make the payments
due to the contractor, and that were specified in the late payment notice
served on the Local Health Board pursuant to sub-paragraph (1).

115.3

If, following receipt of a late payment notice, the Local Health Board refers
the matter to the NHS dispute resolution procedure within 28 days of the date
upon which it is served with the late payment notice, and it notifies the
contractor in writing that it has done so within that period of time, the
contractor may not terminate the contract pursuant to sub-paragraph (2) until—

115.3.a

there has been a determination of the dispute pursuant to paragraph  106  and
that determination permits the contractor to terminate the contract, or

115.3.b

the Local Health Board ceases to pursue the NHS dispute resolution procedure,

whichever is the sooner.

115.4

This paragraph is without prejudice to any other rights to terminate the
contract that the contractor may have.

###### Termination by the Local Health Board: general


116

The Local Health Board may only terminate the contract in accordance with—

116.a

the provisions in this Part, or

116.b

such other termination provisions as the contractor and Local Health Board
include in the contract.

###### Termination by the Local Health Board for breach of conditions in regulation 5


117

117.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), the Local Health Board must serve notice in
writing on the contractor terminating the contract with immediate effect
where, in any case, a contractor who is an individual medical practitioner has
ceased to be a general medical practitioner.

117.2

Where the contractor referred to in sub-paragraph (1) has ceased to satisfy
the condition specified in regulation 5(1)(a) as a result of a suspension
specified in sub-paragraph (6), sub-paragraph (1) does not apply unless—

117.2.a

the contractor is unable to satisfy the Local Health Board that it has in
place adequate arrangements for the provision of clinical services under the
contract for so long as the suspension continues, or

117.2.b

the Local Health Board is satisfied that the circumstances of the suspension
are such that if the contract is not terminated forthwith—

117.2.b.i

the safety of the contractor’s patients is at serious risk, or

117.2.b.ii

the Local Health Board is at risk of material financial loss.

117.3

Except in a case to which paragraph  111(4)  applies, where the contractor is—

117.3.a

two or more persons practising in partnership, and the condition specified in
regulation 5(1)(b) is no longer satisfied, or

117.3.b

a company limited by shares, and the condition specified in regulation 5(1)(c)
is no longer satisfied,

sub-paragraph (4) applies.

117.4

Where sub-paragraph (3)(a) or (b) applies, the Local Health Board must,
subject to sub-paragraph (8)—

117.4.a

serve notice in writing on the contractor terminating the contract forthwith,
or

117.4.b

serve notice in writing on the contractor confirming that the Local Health
Board is to allow the contract to continue, for a period specified by the
Local Health Board in accordance with   sub-paragraph   (5) (the “interim
period”), during which time the Local Health Board must, with the consent of
the contractor, employ or supply one or more general medical practitioners to
the contractor for the interim period to assist the contractor in the
provision of clinical services under the contract.

117.5

The period specified by the Local Health Board under sub-paragraph (4)(b) must
not exceed—

117.5.a

6 months, or

117.5.b

in a case where the failure of the contractor to continue to satisfy the
condition in regulation 5(1)(b) or, as the case may be, 5(1)(c), is the result
of a suspension referred to in sub-paragraph (6), the period for which that
suspension continues.

117.6

The suspensions referred to in sub-paragraphs (2) and (5)(b) are suspension—

117.6.a

by a   Medical Practitioners Tribunal   under—

117.6.a.i

section 35D (functions of a   Medical Practitioners Tribunal ) of the Medical
Act 1983 in a health case, other than an indefinite suspension under section
35D(6), or

117.6.a.ii

section 38(1) (power to order immediate suspension etc. after a finding of
impairment of fitness to practise) of that Act, or

117.6.b

by a Fitness to Practise Panel or an   Interim Orders Tribunal   under section
41A (interim orders) of that Act.

117.7

In   sub-paragraph   (6), “ health case ” has the meaning given in section
35E(4) of the Medical Act 1983.

117.8

Before deciding which of the options in sub-paragraph (4) to pursue, the Local
Health Board must, whenever it is reasonably practicable to do so, consult the
Local Medical Committee (if any) for its area.

117.9

If the contractor does not, pursuant to sub-paragraph (4)(b), consent to the
Local Health Board employing or supplying a general medical practitioner
during the interim period, the Local Health Board must serve notice in writing
on the contractor terminating the contract with immediate effect.

117.10

If, at the end of the interim period, the contractor still falls within sub-
paragraph (3)(a) or (b), the Local Health Board must serve notice in writing
on the contractor terminating the contract with immediate effect.

117.11

In this paragraph “ general medical practitioner ” has the same meaning as in
regulation 5(2).

###### Termination by the Local Health Board for the provision of untrue etc. information


118

The Local Health Board may serve notice in writing on the contractor
terminating the contract with immediate effect, or from such date as may be
specified in the notice if, after the contract has been entered into, it comes
to the attention of the Local Health Board that written information provided
to the Local Health Board by the contractor—

118.a

before the contract was entered into, or

118.b

pursuant to paragraph  96(1)(a)  or 97(1)(b),

in relation to the conditions set out in regulations 5 and 6 (and compliance
with those conditions) was, when given, untrue or inaccurate in a material
respect.

###### Other grounds for termination by the Local Health Board


119

119.1

The Local Health Board may give notice in writing to a contractor terminating
the contract with immediate effect, or from such date as may be specified in
the notice, if sub-paragraph (3) applies to the contractor—

119.1.a

during the existence of a contract, or

119.1.b

if later, on or after the date on which a notice in respect of the
contractor’s compliance with the condition in regulations 5 and 6 was given
under paragraph  96(1)(a)  or 91(1).

119.2

Sub-paragraph (3) applies—

119.2.a

where the contract is with a general medical practitioner, to that general
medical practitioner,

119.2.b

where the contract is with two or more persons practising in partnership, to
the partnership or any partner in the partnership, and

119.2.c

where the contract is with a company limited by shares to—

119.2.c.i

the company,

119.2.c.ii

any person legally or beneficially owning a share in the company, or

119.2.c.iii

any director or secretary of the company.

119.3

This sub-paragraph applies if—

119.3.a

the contractor does not satisfy the conditions prescribed in sections 44(2) or
(3) of the Act (persons eligible to enter into GMS contracts);

119.3.b

the contractor is the subject of a national disqualification;

119.3.c

subject to sub-paragraph (4), the contractor has been disqualified or
suspended (other than by an interim suspension order or direction pending an
investigation or a suspension on the grounds of ill health) from practising by
a licensing body anywhere in the world;

119.3.d

subject to sub-paragraph (5), the contractor has been dismissed (otherwise
than by reason of redundancy) from employment by a health service body unless,
before the Local Health Board has given notice to the contractor terminating
the contract under this paragraph, the contractor is employed by the health
service body from which the contractor was dismissed or by another health
service body;

119.3.e

the contractor has been removed from, or refused admission to, a primary care
list by reason of inefficiency, fraud or unsuitability (within the meaning of
section 107(2), (3) and (4) of the Act respectively) unless the contractor’s
name has subsequently been included in such a list;

119.3.f

the contractor has been convicted in the United Kingdom of murder;

119.3.g

the contractor has been convicted in the United Kingdom of a criminal offence
other than murder and has been sentenced to a term of imprisonment of longer
than 6 months;

119.3.h

subject to sub-paragraph (6), the contractor has been convicted elsewhere of
an offence which would, if it were committed in England and Wales constitute
murder, and—

119.3.h.i

the offence was committed on or after 26 August 2002, and

119.3.h.ii

the contractor was sentenced to a term of imprisonment of longer than 6
months;

119.3.i

the contractor has been convicted of an offence, referred to in Schedule 1 to
the Children and Young Persons Act 1933  (offences against children and young
persons, with respect to special provisions of this Act apply), or in Schedule
1 to the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995  (offences against children
under the age of 17 years to which special provisions apply);

119.3.j

the contractor has at any time been included in—

119.3.j.i

any barred list within the meaning of the Safeguarding Vulnerable Groups Act
2006 , or

119.3.j.ii

any barred list within the meaning of the Safeguarding Vulnerable Groups
(Northern Ireland) Order 2007  (barred lists),

unless the contractor was removed from the list either on the grounds that it
was not appropriate for the contractor to have been included in it or as the
result of a successful appeal;

119.3.k

the contractor has, within the period of 5 years before the signing of the
contract, been removed from the office of charity trustee or trustee for a
charity by an order made by the Charity Commission, the Charity Commission for
Northern Ireland or the High Court, and that order was made on the grounds of
misconduct or mismanagement in the administration of a charity for which the
contractor was responsible or to which the contractor was privy, or which was
contributed to, or facilitated by, the contractor’s conduct;

119.3.l

the contractor has, within the period of 5 years before the signing of the
contract or commencement of the contract (whichever is earlier), been removed
from being concerned with the management or control of a body in any case
where removal was by virtue of section 34(5)(e) of the Charities and Trustees
Investment (Scotland) Act 2005  (powers of Court of Session); or

119.3.m

the contractor—

119.3.m.i

has been made bankrupt and has not been discharged from the bankruptcy or the
bankruptcy order has not been annulled, or

119.3.m.ii

has had sequestration of the contractor’s estate awarded and has not been
discharged from the sequestration;

119.3.n

the contractor is the subject of a bankruptcy restrictions order or an interim
bankruptcy restrictions order under Schedule 4A to the Insolvency Act 1986
(bankruptcy restrictions order and undertaking), or Schedule 2A to the
Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989  (bankruptcy restrictions order and
undertaking) or Part 13 of the Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 2016  (bankruptcy
restrictions orders and interim bankruptcy restrictions orders), unless the
contractor has been discharged from that order or that order has been
annulled;

119.3.o

the contractor—

119.3.o.i

is subject to a moratorium period under a debt relief order under Part   7A
of the Insolvency Act 1986 (debt relief orders)  ..., or

119.3.o.ii

is the subject of a debt relief restrictions order or an interim debt relief
restrictions order under Schedule 4ZB to that Act (debt relief restrictions
orders and undertakings), unless that order has ceased to have effect or has
been annulled;

119.3.p

the contractor has made a composition agreement or arrangement with, or a
trust deed has been granted for, the contractor’s creditors and the contractor
has not been discharged in respect of it;

119.3.q

the contractor is a company which has been wound up under Part   4   of the
Insolvency Act 1986 (winding up of companies registered under the Companies
Acts);

119.3.r

the contractor has had an administrator, administrative receiver or receiver
appointed in respect of it;

119.3.s

the contractor has had an administration order made in respect of the
contractor under Schedule B1 to the Insolvency Act 1986 (administration);

119.3.t

the contractor is a partnership and—

119.3.t.i

the partnership is dissolved by one of the partners, or a dissolution of the
partnership is ordered by any competent court, tribunal or arbitrator, or

119.3.t.ii

an event happens that makes it unlawful for the business of the partnership to
continue, or for members of the partnership to carry on in partnership;

119.3.u

the contractor is subject to—

119.3.u.i

a disqualification order under section 1 of the Company Directors
Disqualification Act 1986  (disqualification orders: general) or a
disqualification undertaking under section 1A of that Act (disqualification
undertakings: general),

119.3.u.ii

a disqualification order or disqualification undertaking under article 3
(disqualification orders: general) or article 4 (disqualification
undertakings: general) of the Company Directors Disqualification (Northern
Ireland) Order 2002 , or

119.3.u.iii

a disqualification order under section 429(2) of the Insolvency Act 1986
(disabilities on revocation of administration order against an individual);

119.3.v

the contractor has refused to comply with a request by the Local Health Board
for the contractor to be medically examined because the Local Health Board is
concerned that the contractor is incapable of adequately providing services
under the contract and, in a case where the contract is with two or more
individuals practising in partnership or with a company  and one or more of
those individuals has refused to comply with a request by the Local Health
Board to be medically examined , the Local Health Board is  not   satisfied
that the contractor is taking adequate steps to deal with the matter; or

119.3.w

the contractor or its employees or agents (or anyone acting on its or their
behalf) commits any prohibited act in relation to the contract with or without
the knowledge of the Local Health Board.

119.4

The Local Health Board must not terminate the contract under sub-paragraph
(3)(c) where the Local Health Board is satisfied that the disqualification or
suspension imposed by a licensing body outside the United Kingdom does not
make the person unsuitable to be—

119.4.a

a contractor,

119.4.b

a partner, in the case of a contract with two or more persons practising in a
partnership, or

119.4.c

in the case of a contract with a company limited by shares—

119.4.c.i

a person legally or beneficially holding a share in the company, or

119.4.c.ii

a director or secretary of the company,

as the case may be.

119.5

The Local Health Board may not terminate the contract under sub-paragraph
(3)(d)—

119.5.a

until a period of at least 12 weeks has elapsed since the date of the
dismissal of the person concerned, or

119.5.b

if, during the period specified in paragraph (a), the person concerned brings
proceedings in any competent tribunal or court in respect of the person’s
dismissal, until proceedings before that tribunal or court are concluded,

and the Local Health Board may only terminate the contract at the end of the
period specified in paragraph (b) if there is no finding of unfair dismissal
at the end of those proceedings.

119.6

The Local Health Board must not terminate the contract under sub-paragraph
(3)(h) where the Local Health Board is satisfied that the conviction does not
make the person unsuitable to be—

119.6.a

a contractor,

119.6.b

a partner, in the case of a contract with two or more persons practising in
partnership, or

119.6.c

in the case of a contract with a company limited by shares—

119.6.c.i

a person legally or beneficially holding a share in the company, or

119.6.c.ii

a director or secretary of the company,

as the case may be.

###### Termination by the Local Health Board where patients’ safety is seriously at risk or where there is risk of material financial loss to Local Health Board


120

The Local Health Board may serve notice in writing on the contractor
terminating the contract forthwith or with effect from such date as may be
specified in the notice if—

120.a

the contractor has breached the contract and as a result of that breach, the
safety of the contractor’s patients is at serious risk if the contract is not
terminated, or

120.b

the contractor’s financial situation is such that the Local Health Board
considers that the Local Health Board is at risk of material financial loss.

###### Termination by the Local Health Board for unlawful sub-contracting


121

If the contractor breaches the condition specified in paragraph  76(11)  and
it comes to the Local Health Board’s attention that the contractor has done
so, the Local Health Board must serve a notice in writing on the contractor—

121.a

terminating the contract with immediate effect, or

121.b

instructing the contractor to terminate the sub-contracting arrangements that
give rise to the breach with immediate effect, and if it fails to comply with
the instruction, the Local Health Board must serve a notice in writing on the
contractor terminating the contract forthwith.

###### Termination by the Local Health Board: remedial notices and breach notices


122

122.1

Where a contractor has breached the contract other than as specified in
paragraphs  117  to  121  and the breach is capable of remedy, the Local
Health Board must, before taking any action it is otherwise entitled to take
by virtue of the contract, serve a notice on the contractor requiring it to
remedy the breach (“ remedial notice ”).

122.2

A remedial notice must specify—

122.2.a

details of the breach,

122.2.b

the steps the contractor must take to the satisfaction of the Local Health
Board in order to remedy the breach, and

122.2.c

the period during which the steps must be taken (“ the notice period ”).

122.3

The notice period must, unless the Local Health Board is satisfied that a
shorter period is necessary to—

122.3.a

protect the safety of the contractor’s patients, or

122.3.b

protect itself from material financial loss,

be no less than 28 days from the date that notice is given.

122.4

Where a Local Health Board is satisfied that the contractor has not taken the
required steps to remedy the breach by the end of the notice period, the Local
Health Board may terminate the contract with effect from such date as the
Local Health Board may specify in a further notice to the contractor.

122.5

Where a contractor has breached the contract other than as specified in
paragraphs  117  to  121  and the breach is not capable of remedy, the Local
Health Board may serve notice on the contractor requiring the contractor not
to repeat the breach (“breach notice”).

122.6

If, following a breach notice or a remedial notice, the contractor—

122.6.a

repeats the breach that was the subject of the breach notice or the remedial
notice, or

122.6.b

otherwise breaches the contract resulting in either a remedial notice or a
further breach notice,

the Local Health Board may serve notice on the contractor terminating the
contract with effect from such date as may be specified in that notice.

122.7

The Local Health Board must not exercise its right to terminate the contract
under sub-paragraph (6) unless it is satisfied that the cumulative effect of
the breaches is such that the Local Health Board considers that to allow the
contract to continue would be prejudicial to the efficiency of the services to
be provided under the contract.

122.8

If the contractor is in breach of any obligation and a breach notice or a
remedial notice in respect of that default has been given to the contractor,
the Local Health Board may withhold or deduct monies which would otherwise be
payable under the contract in respect of that obligation which is the subject
of the default.

###### Termination by the Local Health Board: additional provisions specific to contracts with two or more individuals practising in partnership and companies limited by shares


123

123.1

Where the contractor is a company limited by shares, if the Local Health Board
becomes aware that the contractor is carrying on any business which the Local
Health Board considers to be detrimental to the contractor’s performance of
its obligations under the contract—

123.1.a

the Local Health Board is entitled to give notice to the contractor requiring
that it ceases carrying on that business before the end of a period of not
less than 28 days beginning on the day on which the notice is given (“ the
notice period ”), and

123.1.b

if the contractor has not satisfied the Local Health Board that it has ceased
carrying on that business by the end of the notice period, the Local Health
Board may, by a further written notice, terminate the contract forthwith or
from such date as may be specified in the notice.

123.2

Where the contractor is two or more persons practising in partnership, the
Local Health Board is entitled to terminate the contract by notice in writing
on such date as may be specified in that notice where one or more partners
have left the practice during the existence of the contract if in its
reasonable opinion, the Local Health Board considers that the change in
membership of the partnership is likely to have a serious adverse impact on
the ability of the contractor or the Local Health Board to perform its
obligations under the contract.

123.3

A notice given to the contractor pursuant to sub-paragraph (2) must specify—

123.3.a

the date upon which the contract is to be terminated, and

123.3.b

the Local Health Board’s reasons for considering that the change in the
membership of the partnership is likely to have a serious adverse impact on
the ability of the contractor or the Local Health Board to perform its
obligations under the contract.

###### Contract sanctions


124

124.1

In this paragraph and paragraph  125 , “ contract sanction ” means—

124.1.a

termination or suspension of specified reciprocal obligations under the
contract; and/or

124.1.b

withholding or deducting monies otherwise payable under the contract.

124.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (4), where the Local Health Board is entitled to
terminate the contract under paragraphs  118 ,  119 , 120,  122(4)  or  122(6)
or  123 , it may instead impose any of the contract sanctions if the Local
Health Board is reasonably satisfied that the contract sanction to be imposed
is appropriate and proportionate to the circumstances giving rise to the Local
Health Board’s entitlement to terminate the contract.

124.3

If the Local Health Board decides to impose a contract sanction, it must
notify the contractor in writing of the contract sanction that it proposes to
impose, the date upon which that sanction is to be imposed and provide in that
notice an explanation of the effect of the imposition of that sanction.

124.4

Subject to paragraph  125 , the Local Health Board must not impose the
contract sanction until at least 28 days have elapsed, beginning with the date
on which it served notice on the contractor pursuant to sub-paragraph (5)
unless the Local Health Board is satisfied that it is necessary to do so in
order to—

124.4.a

protect the safety of the contractor’s patients,

124.4.b

ensure continuity of care for the contractor’s patients, or

124.4.c

protect itself from material financial loss.

124.5

Where the Local Health Board imposes a contract sanction, the contractor must
provide all information and assistance to the Local Health Board, throughout
the period that the contract sanction applies, as the Local Health Board may
reasonably require.

124.6

Where the Local Health Board imposes a contract sanction, the Local Health
Board is entitled to charge the contractor the reasonable costs that the Local
Health Board has incurred in order to impose, or as a result of imposing, the
contract sanction.

###### Contract sanctions and the NHS dispute resolution procedure


125

125.1

If there is a dispute between the Local Health Board and the contractor in
relation to a contract sanction that the Local Health Board is proposing to
impose, the Local Health Board must not, subject to sub-paragraph (4), impose
the proposed contract sanction except in the circumstances specified in sub-
paragraph (2)(a) or (b).

125.2

If the contractor refers the dispute relating to the contract sanction to the
NHS dispute resolution procedure within 28 days beginning with the date on
which the Local Health Board served notice on the contractor in accordance
with paragraph  124(3)  (or such longer period as may be agreed in writing
with the Local Health Board), and notifies the Local Health Board in writing
that it has done so, the Local Health Board must not impose the contract
sanction unless—

125.2.a

there has been a determination of the dispute pursuant to paragraph  106  and
that determination permits the Local Health Board to impose the contract
sanction, or

125.2.b

the contractor ceases to pursue the NHS dispute resolution procedure,

whichever is the sooner.

125.3

If the contractor does not invoke the NHS dispute resolution procedure within
the time specified in sub-paragraph (2), the Local Health Board is entitled to
impose the contract sanction with immediate effect.

125.4

If the Local Health Board is satisfied that it is necessary to impose the
contract sanction before the NHS dispute resolution procedure is concluded in
order to—

125.4.a

protect the safety of the contractor’s patients, or

125.4.b

protect itself from material financial loss,

the Local Health Board is entitled to impose the contract sanction forthwith,
pending the outcome of that procedure.

###### Termination and the NHS dispute resolution procedure


126

126.1

Where the Local Health Board is entitled to serve written notice on the
contractor terminating the contract pursuant to paragraph  118 ,  119 , 120,
122(4)  or  122(6)  or  123(2) , the Local Health Board must, in the notice
served on the contractor pursuant to those provisions, specify a date on which
the contract terminates that is not less than 28 days after the date on which
the Local Health Board has served that notice on the contractor unless sub-
paragraph (2) applies.

126.2

This sub-paragraph applies if the Local Health Board is satisfied that a
period less than 28 days is necessary in order to—

126.2.a

protect the safety of the contractor’s patients, or

126.2.b

protect itself from material financial loss.

126.3

In a case falling within sub-paragraph (1) where the exception in sub-
paragraph (2) does not apply, where the contractor invokes the NHS dispute
resolution procedure before the end of the period of notice referred to in
sub-paragraph (1), and it notifies the Local Health Board in writing that it
has done so, the contract does not terminate at the end of the notice period
but instead only terminates in the circumstances specified in sub-paragraph
(4).

126.4

The contract only terminates if and when—

126.4.a

there has been a determination of the dispute pursuant to paragraph  106  and
that determination permits the Local Health Board to terminate the contract,
or

126.4.b

the contractor ceases to pursue the NHS dispute resolution procedure,

whichever is the sooner.

126.5

If the Local Health Board is satisfied that it is necessary to terminate the
contract before the NHS dispute resolution procedure is concluded in order to—

126.5.a

protect the safety of the contractor’s patients, or

126.5.b

protect itself from material financial loss,

sub-paragraphs (3) and (4) do not apply and the Local Health Board is entitled
to confirm, by written notice to be served on the contractor, that the
contract is to nevertheless terminate at the end of the period of the notice
it served pursuant to paragraph  118 ,  119 , 120,  122(4)  or  122(6)  or
123(2) .

###### Consultation with the Local Medical Committee


127

127.1

Whenever the Local Health Board is considering—

127.1.a

terminating the contract pursuant to paragraph  118 ,  119 , 120,  122(4)  or
122(6)  or  123 ,

127.1.b

which of the alternative notices in writing available under the provisions of
paragraph  121  it will serve, or

127.1.c

imposing a contract sanction,

it must, whenever it is reasonably practicable to do so, consult the Local
Medical Committee for its area before it terminates the contract, serves a
notice in writing or imposes a contract sanction.

127.2

Whether or not the Local Medical Committee has been consulted pursuant to sub-
paragraph (1), whenever the Local Health Board imposes a contract sanction on
a contractor or terminates a contract pursuant to this Part, it must, as soon
as reasonably practicable, notify the Local Medical Committee in writing of
the contract sanction imposed or of the termination of the contract (as the
case may be).

##### Miscellaneous


###### Clinical governance


128

128.1

The contractor must have in place an effective system of clinical governance
which includes appropriate standard operating procedures in relation to the
management and use of controlled drugs.

128.2

The contractor must nominate a person who has responsibility for ensuring the
effective operation of the system of clinical governance.

128.3

The contractor must engage in discussion and peer review of clinical incidents
that have occurred within the practice and local services.

128.4

Components of the ‘system of clinical governance’ include, but are not limited
to, the contractor—

128.4.a

undertaking annually by 31 March—

128.4.a.i

the Clinical Governance Practice Self-Assessment Tool, and

128.4.a.ii

the Information Governance Toolkit,

and submitting evidence of completion to the Local Health Board on request,
and

128.4.b

complying with the Assurance Framework and the Local Health Board’s use of
that Assurance Framework in relation to the contractor.

128.5

The person nominated under sub-paragraph (2) must be a person who performs or
manages performance of services under the contract.

128.6

In this paragraph—

“ system of clinical governance ” (“ system llywodraethu clinigol ”) means a
framework through which the contractor endeavours continuously to improve the
quality of its services and safeguard high standards of care by creating an
environment in which clinical excellence can flourish; “ controlled drugs ” (“
cyffuriau a reolir ”) has the meaning given in section 2 of the Misuse of
Drugs Act 1971 (which relates to controlled drugs and their classification for
the purposes of that Act).

###### Co-operation with Health Education and Improvement Wales


129

The contractor must co-operate with Health Education and Improvement Wales
where Health Education and Improvement Wales is discharging functions it has
been directed to exercise by the Welsh Ministers relating to—

129.a

the provision of services under Part 4 of the Act, or

129.b

persons who are employed or engaged, or who are considering becoming employed
or engaged, in any activity which involves or is connected with the provision
of services under Part 4 of the Act.

###### Insurance


130

130.1

The contractor must at all times have in force in relation to it an indemnity
arrangement which provides appropriate cover under the contract.

130.2

The contractor must not sub-contract its obligations to provide clinical
services under the contract unless it has satisfied itself that the sub-
contractor has in force in relation to it an indemnity arrangement which
provides appropriate cover.

130.3

The Local Health Board, to the extent it considers reasonable and to the
extent it may be reimbursed in accordance with the Clinical Negligence Scheme
for NHS Trusts and Local Health Boards established by regulation 3 of the 2019
Regulations, must indemnify the contractor in respect of that contractor’s
qualifying liabilities as specified in regulation 9(4) of the 2019
Regulations, provided the contractor—

130.3.a

complies with the Local Health Board’s claims management protocol for
contractors (as amended from time to time); and

130.3.b

does not have any other indemnity arrangement in force in connection with
clinical services which the contractor provides under the contract at the time
the qualifying liability arose.

130.4

For the purposes of this paragraph a contractor is regarded as having in force
in relation to it an indemnity arrangement—

130.4.a

if there is an indemnity arrangement in force in relation to a person employed
or engaged by it in connection with clinical services which that person
provides under the contract or, as the case may be, sub-contract, or

130.4.b

for its qualifying liabilities specified in regulation 9(4) of the 2019
Regulations, to the extent provided for under sub-paragraph (3).

130.5

In this paragraph—

“ the 2019 Regulations ” (“ Rheoliadau 2019 ”) means the National Health
Service (Clinical Negligence Scheme) (Wales) Regulations 2019 ; “ appropriate
cover ” (“ yswiriant priodol ”) means cover against liabilities that may be
incurred by the contractor in the performance of clinical services under the
contract, which is appropriate, having regard to the nature and extent of the
risks in the performance of such services; “ indemnity arrangement ” (“
trefniant indemniad ”) means a contract of insurance or other arrangement made
for the purpose of indemnifying the contractor.

###### Public liability insurance


131

The contractor must at all times hold adequate public liability insurance in
relation to liabilities to third parties arising under or in connection with
the contract which are not covered by the indemnity arrangement referred to in
paragraph  130 .

###### Gifts


132

132.1

The contractor must keep a register of gifts which—

132.1.a

are given to any of the persons specified in sub-paragraph (2) by or on behalf
of—

132.1.a.i

a patient,

132.1.a.ii

a relative of a patient, or

132.1.a.iii

any person who provided or wishes to provide services to the contractor or its
patients in connection with the contract, and

132.1.b

have, in its reasonable opinion, an individual value of more than £100.00.

132.2

The persons referred to in sub-paragraph (1) are—

132.2.a

the contractor,

132.2.b

where the contract is with two or more individuals practising in partnership,
any partner;

132.2.c

where the contract is with a company limited with shares—

132.2.c.i

any person legally or beneficially holding a share in the company, or

132.2.c.ii

a director or secretary of the company,

132.2.d

any person employed by the contractor for the purposes of the contract,

132.2.e

any general medical practitioner engaged by the contractor for the purposes of
the contract,

132.2.f

any spouse or civil partner of a contractor (where the contractor is an
individual medical practitioner) or of a person specified in paragraphs (b) to
(e), or

132.2.g

any person whose relationship with a contractor (where the contractor is an
individual medical practitioner) or with a person specified in paragraphs (b)
to (e) has the characteristics of the relationship between spouses.

132.3

Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply where—

132.3.a

there are reasonable grounds for believing that the gift is unconnected with
services provided or to be provided by the contractor,

132.3.b

the contractor is not aware of the gift, or

132.3.c

the contractor is not aware that the donor wishes to provide services to the
contractor or its patients.

132.4

The contractor must take reasonable steps to ensure that it is informed of
gifts which fall within sub-paragraph (1) and which are given to the persons
specified in sub-paragraph (2)(b) to (g).

132.5

The register referred to in sub-paragraph (1) must include the following
information—

132.5.a

the name of the donor,

132.5.b

in a case where the donor is a patient, the patient’s National Health Service
number or, if the number is not known, the patient’s address,

132.5.c

in any other case, the address of the donor,

132.5.d

the nature of the gift,

132.5.e

the estimated value of the gift, and

132.5.f

the name of the person or persons who received the gift.

132.6

The contractor must make the register available to the Local Health Board on
request.

###### Bribery Act


133

133.1

The contractor must not commit any prohibited act.

133.2

If the contractor or its employees or agents (or anyone acting on its or their
behalf) commits any prohibited act in relation to the contract with or without
the knowledge of the Local Health Board, the Local Health Board is entitled
to—

133.2.a

exercise its right to terminate under paragraph  119  and to recover from the
contractor the amount of any loss resulting from the termination,

133.2.b

recover from the contractor the amount or value of any gift, consideration or
commission concerned, and

133.2.c

recover from the contractor any loss or expense sustained in consequence of
the carrying out of the prohibited act or the commission of the offence.

###### Advertising private services


134

A contractor who offers private services which are not available to patients
through the NHS must advertise those private services clearly and separately
to the services available under the contract.

###### Compliance with legislation and guidance


135

135.1

The contractor must comply (and the contractor must ensure that those it
employs or engages comply) with—

135.1.a

all relevant legislation, and

135.1.b

all relevant guidance and codes of practice issued from time to time by—

135.1.b.i

the Local Health Board, Welsh Ministers or local authorities in respect of the
exercise of their functions under the Act, or

135.1.b.ii

any regulatory or supervisory body.

135.2

The contractor must provide the services under the contract in a manner that
assists the Local Health Board to comply with the Health and Care Standards
and Duty of Quality Guidance in which those standards are set.

###### Third party rights


136

The contract must not create any right enforceable by any person who is not a
party to it.

  Provision of information to patients

Schedule 3 paragraph 84(1)

##### Information to be included on a practice’s online resource and written practice leaflet


1

A contractor’s online resource and written practice leaflet must include—

1.a

the name of the contractor;

1.b

in the case of a contract with a partnership—

1.b.i

whether or not it is a limited partnership, and

1.b.ii

the names of all the partners and, in the case of a limited partnership, their
status as a general or limited partner;

1.c

in the case of a contract with a company—

1.c.i

the names of the directors, the company secretary and the shareholders of that
company, and

1.c.ii

the address of the company’s registered office;

1.d

the full name of each person performing services under the contract;

1.e

in the case of each health care professional performing services under the
contract the health care professional’s professional qualifications;

1.f

whether the contractor undertakes the teaching or training of health care
professionals or persons intending to become health care professionals;

1.g

the contractor’s practice area, by reference to a sketch diagram, plan or
postcode;

1.h

the address of each of the practice premises;

1.i

the contractor’s telephone and fax numbers and the address of its online
resource;

1.j

whether the practice premises have suitable access for disabled patients and,
if not, the alternative arrangements for providing services to such patients;

1.k

how to register as a patient;

1.l

the right of patients to express a preference of practitioner in accordance
with paragraph  27  of Schedule 3 and the means of expressing such a
preference;

1.m

the services available under the contract;

1.n

the opening hours of the practice premises and the method of obtaining access
to services throughout the core hours;

1.o

the criteria for home visits and the method of obtaining such a visit;

1.p

the consultations available to patients under regulation 17 and Part 1 of
Schedule 3;

1.q

the arrangements for services in the out of hours period (whether or not
provided by the contractor) and how the patient may contact such services;

1.r

if the services in sub-paragraph (q) are not provided by the contractor, the
fact that the Local Health Board referred to in   sub-paragraph (bb)   is
responsible for commissioning the services;

1.s

the name and address of any local walk-in centre;

1.t

the telephone number of NHS 111 Wales and details of NHS 111 Wales online;

1.u

the method by which patients are to obtain repeat prescriptions;

1.v

if the contractor offers repeatable prescribing services, the arrangements for
providing such services;

1.w

if the contractor is a dispensing contractor, the arrangements for dispensing
prescriptions subject to paragraph  60(2)(b)   of Schedule 3 ;

1.x

how patients may notify a concern or complaint in accordance with the
provisions of the National Health Service (Concerns, Complaints and Redress
Arrangements) (Wales) Regulations 2011, or comment on the provision of the
contractor’s services;

1.y

the rights and responsibilities of the patient, including keeping
appointments;

1.z

the action that may be taken where a patient is violent or abusive to the
contractor or his staff or other persons on the practice premises or in the
place where treatment is provided under the contract or other persons
specified in paragraph  30  of Schedule 3;

1.aa

details of who has access to patient information (including information from
which the identity of the individual can be ascertained), the patient’s rights
in relation to disclosure of such information and how patients can access the
contractor’s privacy notice or privacy policy;

1.bb

the name, address and telephone number of the Local Health Board which is a
party to the contract and from whom details of primary medical services in the
area may be obtained; and

1.cc

the fees charged for non-NHS services that are not private services.

  Consequential amendments

Regulation 32

1

1.1

The National Health Service (Performers Lists) (Wales) Regulations 2004  are
amended as follows.

1.2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.3

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2

2.1

The National Health Service (Pharmaceutical Services) (Wales) Regulations 2020
are amended as follows.

2.2

In regulation 2 (interpretation)—

2.2.a

in paragraph (1) in the definition of—

2.2.a.i

“appropriate non-proprietary name” for—

2.2.a.i.aa

“42(2)” substitute   “56(2)” , and

2.2.a.i.bb

“6” substitute “3”;

2.2.a.ii

“GMS Regulations” for “2004” substitute  “2023” ;

2.2.a.iii

“patient list” for—

2.2.a.iii.aa

“14” substitute “22”, and

2.2.a.iii.bb

“6” substitute “3”;

2.2.a.iv

“repeatable prescriber” in each place it occurs for—

2.2.a.iv.aa

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.2.a.iv.bb

“6” substitute “3”;

2.2.b

in paragraph (3)(b) for—

2.2.b.i

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.2.b.ii

“6” substitute “3”.

2.3

In Schedule 7—

2.3.a

in paragraph 5 (dispensing of drugs and appliances ordered by the dispensing
doctor)—

2.3.a.i

in   sub-paragraph   (a) for “paragraph 39 of Schedule 6” substitute
“paragraphs 49 and 50 of Schedule 3” , and

2.3.a.ii

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.3.b

in paragraph 9(1) (fees and charges) for “regulation 24 of, and Schedule 5
to,” substitute  “regulations 21 and 22 of” ;

2.3.c

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

  Revocation

Regulation 33

1

The   2004 Regulations   are revoked.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations set out, for Wales, the framework for general medical
services contracts under section 42 of the National Health Service Act 2006 (“
the Act ”).

  Part 2 of the Regulations prescribes the conditions which, in accordance
with section 44 of the Act, must be met by a contractor before the Local
Health Board may enter into a general medical services contract with it.

  Part 3 of the Regulations prescribes the procedure for pre-contract dispute
resolution, in accordance with section 48(2) of the Act. Part 3 applies to
cases where the contractor is not a health service body. In cases where the
contractor is such a body, the procedure for dealing with pre-contract
disputes is set out in section 7 of the Act.

  Part 4 of the Regulations sets out the procedures, in accordance with
section 48(3) of the Act, by which the contractor may obtain health service
body status.

  Part 5 of (and Schedules 1 to 4 to) the Regulations prescribe the terms
which, in accordance with sections 47 and 48 of the Act, must be included in a
general medical services contract (in addition to those contained in the Act).
It includes, in regulation 17, a description of the services which must be
provided to patients under general medical services contracts pursuant to
section 43 of the Act.

  The prescribed terms include terms relating to—     a     the type and
duration of the contract (regulations 14 to 16);         b     the services to
be provided (regulations 17 and 18 and Schedule 2) and the manner in which
they are to be provided (Schedule 3);         c     the issuing of medical
certificates (regulation 19 and Schedule 1);         d     finance, fees and
charges (regulations 20 to 22);         e     patient registration and
removal, lists closures and assignments (Schedule 3, Parts 2 to 4);         f
prescribing and dispensing (Schedule 3, Part 5);         g     the conditions
to be met by those who perform services or are employed or engaged by the
contractor (Schedule 3, Part 6);         h     sub-contracting (Schedule 3,
Part 7);         i     patient records, the provision of information and
rights of entry (Schedule 3, Part 8 and Schedule 4);         j     concerns,
complaints and investigations (Schedule 3, Part 9);         k     procedures
for dispute resolution (Schedule 3, Part 10);         l     procedures for
variation and termination of contracts (Schedule 3, Part 11).

  Part 6 of the Regulations prescribes functions for Local Medical Committees.

  Part 7 of the Regulations and Schedules 5 to 6 make transitional provisions
and provision for saving, consequential amendments and revocations.

