Title: The Awel y Môr Offshore Wind Farm Order 2023
Date: 2024-09-18
Description: This Order grants development consent for, and authorises the construction, operation and maintenance of an offshore wind farm generating station located approximately 11km from the coast of Denbighshire, together with associated development. This Order imposes requirements in connection with the development and authorises the compulsory acquisition of land (including rights in land) and the right to use land and to override easements and other rights.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/1033

## The Awel y Môr Offshore Wind Farm Order 2023

    Infrastructure Planning

  Made   19th September 2023

  Coming into force   11th October 2023

      An application has been made to the Secretary of State under section 37
of the Planning Act 2008  (the “ 2008 Act ”) for an Order granting development
consent.       The application was examined by a panel of 5 members (appointed
by the Secretary of State) in accordance with Part 6 of the 2008 Act and
carried out in accordance with the Infrastructure Planning (Examination
Procedure) Rules 2010 .       The panel, having considered the application
together with the accompanying documents, in accordance with section 74(2) of
the 2008 Act, has submitted a report and recommendation to the Secretary of
State.       The Secretary of State has considered the report and
recommendation of the panel, has taken into account the environmental
information in accordance with regulation 4 of the Infrastructure Planning
(Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2017 , and, as a national policy
statement has effect in relation to the proposed development, has had regard
to the documents and matters referred to in section 104(2) of the 2008 Act.
The Secretary of State is satisfied that the open space forming special
category land specified in the land plans and special category land plan (as
defined in article 2 of this Order), when burdened with any new rights
authorised to be compulsorily acquired under this Order, will be no less
advantageous than it was before to the persons in whom it is vested, other
persons, if any, entitled to rights of common or other rights, and the public,
and that, accordingly, section 132(3) of the 2008 Act applies.       The
Secretary of State, having decided the application, has determined to make an
Order granting development consent for the development described in the
application with modifications which in the opinion of the Secretary of State
do not make any substantial changes to the proposals comprised in the
application.           The Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 114, 115, 120 and 140, and Schedule 5 to the 2008 Act,
makes the following Order—

### Preliminary


#### Citation and commencement


1

This Order may be cited as the Awel y Môr Offshore Wind Farm Order 2023 and
comes into force on 11th October 2023.

#### Interpretation


2

2.1

In this order–

“ 1961 Act ” means the Land Compensation Act 1961 ; “ 1965 Act ” means the
Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 ; “ 1980 Act ” means the Highways Act 1980 ; “
1981 Act ” means the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 ; “
1989 Act ” means the Electricity Act 1989 ; “ 1990 Act ” means the Town and
Country Planning Act 1990 ; “ 1991 Act ” means the New Roads and Street Works
Act 1991 ; “ 2003 Act ” means the Communications Act 2003 ; “ 2004 Act ” means
the Energy Act 2004 ; “ 2008 Act ” means the Planning Act 2008; “ 2009 Act ”
means the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 ; “ address ” includes any number
or address used for the purposes of electronic transmission; “ ancillary works
” means the ancillary works described in Part 2 of Schedule 1 (ancillary
works) and any other works authorised by this Order that are not development
within the meaning of section 32 of the 2008 Act; “ apparatus ” has the same
meaning as in section 105(1) of the 1991 Act; “ authorised development ” means
the development and associated development described in Part 1 of Schedule 1
(authorised development) and any other development authorised by this Order
that is development within the meaning of section 32 of the 2008 Act; “
authorised project ” means the authorised development and the ancillary works
authorised by this Order; “ bank holiday ” means a bank holiday in England and
Wales under section 1 of the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971 ; “ book
of reference ” means the document certified as such by the Secretary of State
under article 40 (certification of plans, etc.) for the purposes of this
Order; “ building ” includes any structure or erection or any part of a
building, structure or erection; “ buoy ” means any floating device used for
navigational purposes or measurement purposes, including wave buoys, LiDAR and
guard buoys; “ business day ” means a day other than a Saturday or Sunday or a
bank holiday in England and Wales; “ cable ” means up to 400kV cables for the
transmission of electricity and includes direct lay cables, cables laid in
cable ducts or protective covers, and further includes fibre optic and other
communications cables either within the cable or laid alongside; “ cable
circuits ” means a number of electrical conductors necessary to transmit
electricity between two points within the authorised development comprising up
to three electrical conductors, which may be attached together or take the
form of single cables, and in either case the circuit may include one or more
auxiliary cables for the purpose of control, monitoring, protection or general
communications; “ cable crossings ” means the crossing of existing sub-sea
cables, pipelines or other existing infrastructure by the cables authorised by
this Order together with cable protection; “ cable ducts ” means conduits for
the installation of cables; “ cable protection ” means measures to protect
cables from physical damage including but not limited to concrete mattresses,
with or without frond devices, and/or rock placement, the use of bagged
solutions filled with grout or other materials, protective aprons or
coverings, mattresses, flow energy dissipation devices and rock and gravel
burial; “ carriageway ” has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act; “ commence ”
means carry out a material operation, as defined in section 155 of the 2008
Act comprised in or for the purposes of the authorised development other than
onshore works comprising surveying or investigatory works including
archaeological investigations, environmental surveys, investigations for the
purpose of assessing ground conditions; preparatory works to existing
infrastructure and diversion and laying of utilities and services; creation of
any temporary means of access; site clearance including vegetation clearance;
erection of screening and fencing, site security works, creation of temporary
hard standing, or the temporary display of site notices or advertisements, and
“commencement”, “commenced” and cognate expressions are to be construed
accordingly; “ Defence Infrastructure Organisation Safeguarding ” means
Ministry of Defence Safeguarding, Defence Infrastructure Organisation –
Safeguarding, St George’s House, DIO Head Office, DMS Whittington, Lichfield,
Staffordshire, WS14 9PY and any successor body to its functions; “ design
principles document ” means the document certified as such by the Secretary of
State under article 40 (certification of plans, etc.) for the purposes of this
Order; “ electronic transmission ” means a communication transmitted— by means
of an electronic communications network; or by other means but while in
electronic form; “ environmental statement ” means the document certified as
such by the Secretary of State under article 40 (certification of plans, etc.)
for the purposes of this Order; “ foundation ” means any of: a monopile,
multi-leg pin-piled jacket, mono suction caisson, multi-leg suction caisson
jacket, mono gravity based system or multi-leg gravity based system jacket; “
gravity base foundation ” means a structure principally of steel, concrete, or
steel and concrete with a base which rests on the seabed either due to its own
weight with or without added ballast or additional skirts and associated
equipment including scour protection, J-tubes, corrosion protection systems
and access platforms and equipment; “ hedgerow and protected tree plan ” means
the document certified as such by the Secretary of State under article 40
(certification of plans, etc.) for the purposes of this Order; “ highway ” has
the same meaning as in section 328(1) of the 1980 Act; “ highway authority ”
means in relation to the A55, the Welsh Ministers, and in relation to any
other highway Denbighshire County Council; “ horizontal directional drilling ”
means a trenchless boring technique for installing cables, cable ducts and
other associated apparatus involving drilling in an arc between two points; “
HVAC ” means high voltage alternating current; “ inter-array cables ” means
the cables linking the wind turbine generators to each other and to the other
offshore works; “ jacket foundation ” means a steel jacket/lattice-type
structure constructed of steel, fixed to the seabed with steel pin piles or
steel suction buckets and associated equipment including scour protection,
J-tubes, corrosion protection systems and access platforms and equipment; “
joint bay ” means an excavation formed to enable the jointing of the cables; “
jointing ” means a process by which two or more cables are connected to each
other by means of cable joints within a joint bay; “ landfall ” means the
location at which the offshore cables come ashore; “ land plans ” means the
documents certified as the ‘land plan (offshore)’ and ‘land plan (onshore)’ by
the Secretary of State under article 40 (certification of plans, etc.) for the
purposes of this Order; “ LiDAR ” means a light detection and ranging system
used to measure weather and sea conditions; “ location plan ” means the
document certified as such by the Secretary of State under article 40
(certification of plans, etc.) for the purposes of this Order; “ m ” means
metres and “m 2 ” means square metres; “ maintain ” includes inspect, repair,
adjust or alter the authorised development, and remove, reconstruct or replace
any part, provided that such works do not give rise to any materially new or
materially different environmental effects to those identified in the
environmental statement and any derivative of “ maintain ” is to be construed
accordingly; “mean high water springs” or “ MHWS ” means the highest level
which spring tides reach on average over a period of time; “mean low water
springs” or “ MLWS ” means the average height of all low waters above Chart
Datum; “ meteorological mast ” means an offshore mast housing equipment to
measure wind speed and other wind characteristics, including a topside housing
electrical, communication and associated equipment and marking and lighting; “
monopile foundation ” means a steel or concrete pile, driven and/or drilled
into the seabed and associated equipment including scour protection, J-tubes,
corrosion protection systems and access platforms and equipment; “ offshore
electrical platform ” means a platform with one or more decks, whether open or
fully clad, accommodating electrical power transformers, low, medium and/or
high voltage switch gear, instrumentation, protection and control systems,
neutral earthing resistors, reactive compensation, standby electrical
generation equipment, fuelling facilities, surface water drainage system,
auxiliary and uninterruptible power supply systems and transformers,
accommodation, emergency shelter, craneage, metering stations, meteorological
equipment, helicopter landing facilities, messing facilities, potable water
storage, black water separation equipment, control hub, drainage facilities,
access equipment, J-tubes, marking and lighting and other associated equipment
and facilities to enable the transmission of electronic communications and for
electricity to be collected at, and exported from, the platform; “ offshore
works ” means Work Nos. 1, 1A, 2 and 2A and any related further associated
development in connection with those Works; “ onshore works ” means Work Nos.
3 to 41 inclusive and any related further associated development in connection
with those Works; “ onshore WSI ” means the document certified as such by the
Secretary of State under article 40 (certification of plans, etc.) for the
purposes of this Order; “ Order land ” means the land shown on the land plans
which is within the limits of land to be acquired or used and described in the
book of reference; “ Order limits ” means the limits shown on the works plan
within which the authorised development may be carried out whose grid
coordinates seaward of MHWS are set out at Table 1 in Part 1 of Schedule 1
(authorised development) of this Order; “ outline code of construction
practice ” means the document certified as such by the Secretary of State
under article 40 (certification of plans, etc.) for the purposes of this
Order; “ outline drainage strategy ” means the document certified as such by
the Secretary of State under article 40 (certification of plans, etc.) for the
purposes of this Order; “ outline landscape and ecology management plan ”
means the document certified as such by the Secretary of State under article
40 (certification of plans, etc.) for the purposes of this Order; “ outline
skills and employment strategy ” means the document certified as such by the
Secretary of State under article 40 (certification of plans, etc.) for the
purposes of this Order; “ owner ”, in relation to land, has the same meaning
as in section 7 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 ; “ pin piles ” means
steel or concrete cylindrical piles driven and/or drilled into the seabed to
secure steel jacket foundations; “ platforms ” means the offshore structures
housing or incorporating electrical equipment such as switchgear and
transformers and high voltage reactive controls, electrical systems such as
metering and control systems, J-tubes, landing facilities for vessels and
helicopters, re-fuelling facilities, vessel charging facilities, communication
and control systems, auxiliary and uninterruptible power supplies, energy
storage systems, standby electricity generation equipment, cranes, storage for
waste and consumables including fuel, marking and lighting and other
associated equipment and facilities; “ relevant planning authority ” means
Denbighshire County Council; “ requirements ” means those matters set out in
Part 1 of Schedule 2 (requirements) to this Order;   “ scour protection ”
means measures to prevent loss of seabed sediment around any marine structure
placed in or on the seabed by use of protective aprons, blocks/mattresses with
or without frond devices, rock and/or gravel placement, or the use of bagged
solutions filled with rock, sand or similar materials;   “ special category
land plan ” means the plan certified as such by the Secretary of State under
article 40 (certification of plans, etc.) for the purposes of this Order; “
statutory undertaker ” means any person falling within section 127(8) of the
2008 Act and a public communications provider as defined in section 151 of the
2003 Act; “ street ” means a street within the meaning of section 48 of the
1991 Act , together with land on the verge of a street or between two
carriageways, and includes part of a street; “ street authority ”, in relation
to a street, has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act ; “ street
works and access plan ” means the plan certified as such by the Secretary of
State under article 40 (certification of plans, etc.) for the purposes of this
Order; “ substation ” means in relation to the onshore works an HVAC
substation compound sited at Bodelwyddan containing electrical equipment
(including power transformers, gantries, switchgear, reactive compensation
equipment, electrical protection equipment devices (disconnectors, circuit
breakers), cooling, harmonic filters, cables and back-up generators), control
buildings, lightning protection masts, communications masts, access including
internal roads, fencing and other associated equipment, structures or
buildings; “ suction caisson foundation ” means a tubular steel structure
which partially or fully penetrates the seabed and associated equipment,
including scour protection, J-tubes, corrosion protection systems and access
platforms and equipment; “ temporary mitigation area ” means land in which
temporary mitigation will be undertaken as identified on the works plan and
described in the outline landscape and ecology management plan; “ temporary
stopping up of public rights of way plan ” means the plan certified as such by
the Secretary of State under article 40 (certification of plans, etc.) for the
purposes of this Order; “ trenchless installation technique compound ” means a
construction site associated with the cable or cable circuit works where
horizontal directional drilling or other trenchless construction technique is
proposed including hard standings, lay down and storage areas for construction
materials and equipment, areas for spoil, areas for vehicular parking, bunded
storage areas, areas comprising water and bentonite tanks, pumps and pipes,
areas for welfare facilities including offices and canteen and washroom
facilities, wheel washing facilities, workshop facilities and temporary
fencing or other means of enclosure and areas for other facilities required
for construction purposes; “ trenchless installation techniques ” means the
installation of electrical circuits and/or cables by means of boring
techniques for installing cable ducts including horizontal directional
drilling, pipe jacking/horizontal auger boring and micro-boring; “ Trinity
House ” means the Corporation of Trinity House of Deptford Strond;   “
undertaker ” means Awel y Môr Offshore Wind Farm Limited , incorporated under
company number 12270928 and having its registered office at Windmill Hill
Business Park, Whitehill Way, Swindon, Wiltshire, United Kingdom, SN5 6PB; “
vessel ” means every description of vessel, however propelled or moved, and
includes a non-displacement craft, a personal watercraft, a seaplane on the
surface of the water, a hydrofoil vessel, a hovercraft or any other amphibious
vehicle and any other thing constructed or adapted for movement through, in,
on or over water and which is at the time in, on or over water; “ watercourse
” includes all rivers, streams, creeks, ditches, drains, canals, cuts,
culverts, dykes, sluices, sewers and passages through which water flows except
a public sewer or drain; “ wind turbine generator ” means a structure
comprising a tower, rotor with three blades connected at the hub, nacelle and
ancillary electrical and other equipment which may include J-tube(s),
transition piece, access and rest platforms, access ladders, boat access
systems, corrosion protection systems, fenders and maintenance equipment,
helicopter landing facilities and other associated equipment including
communications equipment, fixed to a foundation or transition piece; and “
works plan ” means the plan or plans certified as such by the Secretary of
State under article 40 (certification of plans, etc.) for the purposes of this
Order.

2.2

References in this Order to rights over land include references to rights to
do or to place and maintain, anything in, on or under land or in the airspace
above its surface and references in this Order to the imposition of
restrictive covenants are references to the creation of rights over land which
interfere with the interests or rights of another and are for the benefit of
land which is acquired under this Order or is otherwise comprised in the Order
land.

2.3

All distances, directions, areas and lengths referred to in this Order are
approximate and distances between points on a work comprised in the authorised
development are taken to be measured along that work.

2.4

For the purposes of this Order, all areas described in square metres in the
book of reference are approximate.

2.5

References in this Order to points identified by letters or numbers are to be
construed as references to points so lettered or numbered on the relevant
plans.

2.6

References in this Order to numbered works are references to the works as
numbered in Part 1 of Schedule 1 (authorised development).

### Principal Powers


#### Development consent etc. granted by the Order


3

3.1

Subject to the provisions of this Order and to the requirements the undertaker
is granted—

3.1.a

development consent for the authorised development; and

3.1.b

consent for the ancillary works; to be carried out within the Order limits.

3.2

Subject to the requirements, the offshore works must be constructed within the
Order limits seaward of MLWS and the onshore works must be constructed within
the Order limits landward of MLWS.

3.3

No provision of this Order relieves the undertaker of any requirement to
obtain any further licence under Part 4 of the 2009 Act (marine licensing)
before commencement of the authorised development, or to comply with the
conditions of any marine licence(s), and nothing in this Order in any way
limits the enforcement powers in respect of a marine licence(s) under Part 4
of the 2009 Act.

3.4

In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of this Order and a
marine licence, then the terms of the marine licence will take precedence.

#### Operation of generating station


4

4.1

The undertaker is authorised to use and operate the authorised development for
which development consent is granted by this Order.

4.2

Paragraph (1) does not relieve the undertaker of any requirement to obtain any
permit or licence under any legislation that may be required from time to time
to authorise the operation of the authorised development.

#### Power to maintain the authorised development


5

5.1

Subject to paragraph (2), the undertaker may at any time maintain the
authorised development, except to the extent that this Order or an agreement
made under this Order provides otherwise.

5.2

The power to maintain conferred under paragraph (1) does not relieve the
undertaker of any requirement to obtain any further licence under Part 4
(marine licensing) of the 2009 Act for the offshore works.

#### Benefit of the Order


6

6.1

Subject to this article, the provisions of this Order have effect solely for
the benefit of the undertaker.

6.2

Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may with the written consent of the
Secretary of State—

6.2.a

transfer to another person (the “transferee”) any or all of the benefit of the
provisions of this Order and such related statutory rights as may be agreed
between the undertaker and the transferee; and

6.2.b

grant to another person (the “lessee”) for a period agreed between the
undertaker and the lessee any or all of the benefit of the provisions of this
Order and such related statutory rights   as may be so agreed except where
paragraph (6) applies, in which case the consent of the Secretary of State is
not required.

6.3

Where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph (2) references
in this Order to the undertaker, will include references to the transferee or
lessee.

6.4

The undertaker must consult the Secretary of State before making an
application for consent under this article by giving notice in writing of the
proposed application.

6.5

  Where the undertaker has transferred any benefit, or for the duration of any
period during which the undertaker has granted any benefit under paragraph
(2).

6.5.a

the benefit transferred or granted (“the transferred benefit”) includes any
rights that are conferred, and any obligations that are imposed, by virtue of
the provisions to which the benefit relates;

6.5.b

the transferred benefit resides exclusively with the transferee or, as the
case may be, the lessee and the transferred benefit is not enforceable against
the undertaker; and

6.5.c

the exercise by a person of any benefits or rights conferred in accordance
with any transfer or grant under paragraph (1) is subject to the same
restrictions, liabilities and obligations as would apply under this Order if
those benefits or rights were exercised by the undertaker.

6.6

The consent of the Secretary of State is required for the exercise of powers
under paragraph (2) except where—

6.6.a

the transferee or lessee is the holder of a licence under section 6 (licences
authorising supply, etc.) of the 1989 Act; or

6.6.b

the time limits for claims for compensation in respect of the acquisition of
land or effects upon land under this Order have elapsed and—

6.6.b.i

no such claims have been made;

6.6.b.ii

any such claim has been made and has been compromised or withdrawn;

6.6.b.iii

compensation has been paid in final settlement of any such claim;

6.6.b.iv

payment of compensation into court has taken place in lieu of settlement of
any such claim; or

6.6.b.v

it has been determined by a tribunal or court of competent jurisdiction in
respect of any such claim that no compensation is payable.

6.7

Prior to any transfer or grant under this article taking effect, whether or
not the consent of the Secretary of State is required, the undertaker must
give notice in writing to the Secretary of State, and if such transfer or
grant relates to the exercise of powers in their area, to the relevant
planning authority.

6.8

The notice required under paragraphs (4) and (7) must—

6.8.a

state—

6.8.a.i

the name and contact details of the person to whom the benefit of the
provisions will be transferred or granted;

6.8.a.ii

subject to paragraph (9), the date on which the transfer will take effect;

6.8.a.iii

the provisions to be transferred or granted;

6.8.a.iv

the restrictions, liabilities and obligations that, in accordance with
paragraph (5)(c), will apply to the person exercising the powers transferred
or granted; and

6.8.a.v

where paragraph (6) does not apply, confirmation of the availability and
adequacy of funds for compensation associated with the compulsory acquisition
of the Order land.

6.8.b

be accompanied by—

6.8.b.i

where relevant, a plan showing the works or areas to which the transfer or
grant relates; and

6.8.b.ii

a copy of the document effecting the transfer or grant signed by the
undertaker and the person to whom the benefit of the powers will be
transferred or granted.

6.9

The date specified under paragraph (8)(a)(ii) in respect of a notice served in
respect of paragraph (7) must not be earlier than the expiry of fourteen days
from the date of the receipt of the notice.

6.10

The notice given under paragraph (7) must be signed by the undertaker and the
person to whom the benefit of the powers will be transferred or granted as
specified in that notice.

#### Application and modification of legislative provisions


7

The following enactments do not apply in relation to the construction of any
work or the carrying out of any operation for the purpose of or in connection
with, the construction of the authorised development or any maintenance of any
part of the authorised development—

7.a

the provisions of any byelaws made under, or having effect as if made under,
paragraphs 5, 6 or 6A of Schedule 25 (byelaw making powers of the authority)
to the Water Resources Act 1991 ;

7.b

the provisions of any byelaws made under section 66 (powers to make byelaws)
of the Land Drainage Act 1991 ;

7.c

sections 23 (prohibition on obstructions etc. in watercourses) and 30
(authorisation of drainage works in connection with a ditch) of the Land
Drainage Act 1991 ; and

7.d

the provisions of the Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017  in so far as they
relate to the temporary possession of land under articles 27 (temporary use of
land for carrying out the authorised development) and 28 (temporary use of
land for maintaining the authorised development) of this Order.

#### Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance


8

8.1

Where proceedings are brought under section 82(1) (summary proceedings by
persons aggrieved by statutory nuisances) of the Environmental Protection Act
1990  in relation to a nuisance falling within paragraphs (d), (fb), (g) and
(ga) of section 79(1) (statutory nuisances and inspections therefor) of that
Act no order is to be made, and no fine may be imposed, under section 82(2) of
that Act if the defendant shows that the nuisance—

8.1.a

relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the construction or maintenance of the authorised development
and is attributable to the carrying out of the authorised development in
accordance with a notice served under section 60 (control of noise on
construction sites), or a consent given under section 61 (prior consent for
work on construction sites), of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 ;

8.1.b

is a consequence of the construction or maintenance of the authorised
development and cannot reasonably be avoided; or

8.1.c

is a consequence of the use of the authorised development and cannot
reasonably be avoided.

8.2

Section 61(9) (consent for work on construction site) of the Control of
Pollution Act 1974  does not apply where the consent relates to the use of
premises by the undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with the
construction or maintenance of the authorised development.

### Streets


#### Street works


9

9.1

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development, enter on
so much of any of the streets specified in Schedule 3 (streets subject to
street works) as is within the Order limits and may—

9.1.a

break up or open the street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel under it;

9.1.b

tunnel or bore under the street;

9.1.c

place apparatus under the street;

9.1.d

maintain apparatus under the street or change its position; and

9.1.e

execute any works required for or incidental to any works referred to in sub-
paragraphs (a) to (d).

9.2

The authority given by paragraph (1) is a statutory right for the purposes of
sections 48(3) (streets, street works and undertakers) and 51(1) (prohibition
of unauthorised street works) of the 1991 Act.

#### Application of the 1991 Act


10

10.1

The provisions of the 1991 Act mentioned in paragraph (2) that apply in
relation to the carrying out of street works under that Act and any
regulations made or code of practice issued or approved under those provisions
apply (with all necessary modifications) in relation to—

10.1.a

the carrying out of works under article 9 (street works); and

10.1.b

the temporary stopping up, temporary alteration or temporary diversion of a
street by the undertaker under article 12 (temporary restriction of use of
streets);

whether or not the carrying out of the works or the stopping up, alteration or
diversion constitutes street works within the meaning of that Act.

10.2

The provisions of the 1991 Act  are—

10.2.a

subject to paragraph (3), section 55 (notice of starting date of works);

10.2.b

section 57 (notice of emergency works);

10.2.c

section 60 (general duty of undertakers to co-operate);

10.2.d

section 68 (facilities to be afforded to street authority);

10.2.e

section 69 (works likely to affect other apparatus in the street);

10.2.f

section 76 (liability for cost of temporary traffic regulation);

10.2.g

section 77 (liability for cost of use of alternative route); and

10.2.h

all provisions of that Act that apply for the purposes of the provisions
referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) to (g).

10.3

Section 55 of the 1991 Act as applied by paragraph (2) has effect as if
references in section 57 of that Act to emergency works included a reference
to a stopping up, alteration or diversion (as the case may be) required in a
case of emergency.

10.4

The following provisions of the 1991 Act do not apply in relation to any works
executed under the powers conferred by this Order—

10.4.a

section 56 (power to give directions as to timing of street works);

10.4.b

section 56A (power to give directions as to placing of apparatus);

10.4.c

section 58 (restriction on works following substantial road works);

10.4.d

section 58A (restriction on works following substantial street works);

10.4.e

section 61 (protected streets); and

10.4.f

schedule 3A (restriction on works following substantial street works).

#### Temporary stopping up of rights of way


11

11.1

The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised
development, temporarily stop up each of the public rights of way specified in
column (1) of Schedule 4 (rights of way to be temporarily stopped up or
restricted) to the extent specified in column (2), by reference to the letters
shown on the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan.

11.2

The rights of way specified in Schedule 4 (rights of way to be temporarily
stopped up or restricted) may not be temporarily stopped up under this article
unless a diversion for the stopped up section of that right of way, is first
provided by the undertaker to the standard defined in the public access
management plan forming part of the code of construction practice to be
approved in accordance with the requirements set out in Schedule 2
(requirements), to the reasonable satisfaction of the highway authority.

11.3

The relevant diversion route provided under paragraph (2) will be subsequently
maintained by the undertaker until the re-opening of the relevant right of way
specified in paragraph (1).

11.4

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension of any private right of way
under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of
dispute, under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation) of
the 1961 Act.

#### Temporary restriction of use of streets


12

12.1

The undertaker, during and for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
development, may temporarily stop up, alter or divert any street and may for
any reasonable time—

12.1.a

divert the traffic or a class of traffic from the street; and

12.1.b

subject to paragraph (3), prevent all persons from passing along the street.

12.2

Without limiting paragraph (1), the undertaker may use any street temporarily
stopped up under the powers conferred by this article within the Order limits
as a temporary working site.

12.3

The undertaker must provide reasonable access for pedestrians going to or from
premises abutting a street affected by the alteration or diversion of a street
under this article if there would otherwise be no such access.

12.4

The undertaker must not temporarily stop up or use as a temporary working site
any street without the consent of the street authority, which may attach
reasonable conditions to the consent.

12.5

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension of any private right of way
under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of
dispute, under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation) of
the 1961 Act.

12.6

If a street authority fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within 28
days of receiving an application for consent under paragraph (4), that street
authority is deemed to have granted consent.

#### Access to works


13

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development, form and
lay out means of access, or improve existing means of access for the purposes
of the authorised development within the Order limits from the streets listed
in Schedule 5 (access to works) and shown on the street works and access plan;
and as part of Work No. 41.

### Supplemental powers


#### Discharge of water


14

14.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4) below the undertaker may use any watercourse
or any public sewer or drain for the drainage of water in connection with the
carrying out or maintenance of the authorised development and for that purpose
may inspect, lay down, take up and alter pipes and may, on any land within the
Order limits, make openings into, and connections with, the watercourse,
public sewer or drain.

14.2

Any dispute arising from the making of connections to or the use of a public
sewer or drain by the undertaker pursuant to paragraph (1) is determined as if
it were a dispute under section 106 (right to communicate with public sewers)
of the Water Industry Act 1991 .

14.3

The undertaker must not discharge any water into any watercourse, public sewer
or drain except with the consent of the person to whom it belongs; and such
consent may be given subject to such terms and conditions as that person may
reasonably impose, but must not be unreasonably withheld.

14.4

The undertaker must not carry out any works to any public sewer or drain
pursuant to paragraph (1) except—

14.4.a

in accordance with plans approved by the person to whom the sewer or drain
belongs, but such approval must not be unreasonably withheld; and

14.4.b

where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the making of
the opening.

14.5

The undertaker must not, in carrying out or maintaining works pursuant to this
article, damage or interfere with the bed or banks of, or construct any works
in, under, over or within eight metres of, any watercourse forming part of a
main river, or within 16 metres of a tidally influenced main river without the
prior written consent of Natural Resources Wales.

14.6

The undertaker must take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure
that any water discharged into a watercourse or public sewer or drain pursuant
to this article is as free as may be practicable from gravel, soil or other
solid substance, oil or matter in suspension.

14.7

This article does not authorise the entry into controlled waters of any matter
whose entry or discharge into controlled waters is prohibited by regulation 12
(requirement for environmental permit) of the Environmental Permitting
(England and Wales) Regulations 2016 .

14.8

In this article—

14.8.a

“ public sewer or drain ” means a sewer or drain which belongs to a sewerage
undertaker, Natural Resources Wales, an internal drainage board or a local
authority; and

14.8.b

other expressions, excluding watercourse, used both in this article and in the
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 have the same
meaning as in those Regulations.

14.9

If a person who receives an application for consent or approval fails to
notify the undertaker of a decision within 28 days of receiving an application
for consent under paragraph (3) or approval under paragraph (4)(a) that person
is deemed to have granted consent or given approval, as the case may be.

#### Authority to survey and investigate the land


15

15.1

The undertaker may for the purposes of this Order enter on any land shown
within the Order limits or which may be affected by the authorised development
and—

15.1.a

survey or investigate the land;

15.1.b

without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), make trial holes in
such positions on the land as the undertaker thinks fit to investigate the
nature of the surface layer and subsoil and remove soil samples;

15.1.c

without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), carry out ecological
or archaeological investigations on such land; and

15.1.d

place on, leave on and remove from the land apparatus for use in connection
with the survey and investigation of land and making of trial holes.

15.2

No land may be entered or equipment placed or left on or removed from the land
under paragraph (1) unless at least 14 days’ notice has been served on every
owner and occupier of the land.

15.3

Any person entering land under this article on behalf of the undertaker—

15.3.a

must, if so required before or after entering the land, produce written
evidence of their authority to do so; and

15.3.b

may take with them such vehicles and equipment as are necessary to carry out
the survey or investigation or to make the trial holes.

15.4

No trial holes are to be made under this article—

15.4.a

in land located within the highway boundary without the consent of the highway
authority; or

15.4.b

in a private street without the consent of the street authority;

but such consent must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

15.5

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the land for any
loss or damage arising by reason of the exercise of the authority conferred by
this article, such compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under
Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

15.6

If either a highway authority or a street authority which receives an
application for consent fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within
28 days of receiving the application for consent—

15.6.a

under paragraph (4)(a) in the case of a highway authority; or

15.6.b

under paragraph (4)(b) in the case of a street authority;

that authority is deemed to have granted consent.

15.7

Section 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act
applies to the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same
extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by
virtue of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of
the 2008 Act.

#### Protective works to buildings


16

16.1

Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker may at its
own expense carry out such protective works to any building lying within the
Order limits as the undertaker considers necessary or expedient.

16.2

Protective works may be carried out—

16.2.a

at any time before or during the carrying out in the vicinity of the building
of any part of the authorised development; or

16.2.b

after the completion of that part of the authorised development in the
vicinity of the building at any time up to the end of the period of five years
beginning with the day on which that part of the authorised development first
becomes operational.

16.3

For the purpose of determining how the powers under this article are to be
exercised, the undertaker may enter and survey any building falling within
paragraph (1) and any land within its curtilage.

16.4

For the purpose of carrying out protective works under this article to a
building, the undertaker may (subject to paragraphs (5) and (6))—

16.4.a

enter the building and any land within its curtilage; and

16.4.b

where the works cannot be carried out reasonably conveniently without entering
land that is adjacent to the building but outside its curtilage, enter the
adjacent land (but not any building erected on it).

16.5

Before exercising—

16.5.a

a power under paragraph (1) to carry out protective works to a building;

16.5.b

a power under paragraph (3) to enter a building and land within its curtilage;

16.5.c

a power under paragraph (4)(a) to enter a building and land within its
curtilage; or

16.5.d

a power under paragraph (4)(b) to enter land,

the undertaker must, except in the case of emergency, serve on the owners and
occupiers of the building or land not less than 14 days’ notice of its
intention to exercise the power and, in a case falling within sub-paragraph
(a), (c) or (d), specifying the protective works proposed to be carried out.

16.6

Where a notice is served under paragraph (5)(a), (c) or (d), the owner or
occupier of the building or land concerned may, by serving a counter-notice
within the period of ten days beginning with the day on which the notice was
served, require the question of whether it is necessary or expedient to carry
out the protective works or to enter the building or land to be referred to
arbitration under article 44 (arbitration).

16.7

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of any building or
land in relation to which powers under this article have been exercised for
any loss or damage arising to them by reason of the exercise of the powers.

16.8

Where—

16.8.a

protective works are carried out under this article to a building; and

16.8.b

within the period of five years beginning with the day on which the part of
the authorised development carried out in the vicinity of the building first
becomes operational it appears that the protective works are inadequate to
protect the building against damage caused by the carrying out or use of that
part of the authorised development;

the undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the building for
any loss or damage sustained by them.

16.9

Nothing in this article relieves the undertaker from any liability to pay
compensation under section 152 (compensation in case where no right to claim
in nuisance) of the 2008 Act.

16.10

Any compensation payable under paragraph (7) or (8) must be determined, in
case of dispute, under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed
compensation) of the 1961 Act.

16.11

Section 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act
applies to the entry onto, or possession of land under this article to the
same extent as it applies in respect of the compulsory acquisition of land
under this Order by virtue of section 125 (application of compulsory
acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act.

16.12

In this article “ protective works ”, in relation to a building, means—

16.12.a

underpinning, strengthening and any other works the purpose of which is to
prevent damage that may be caused to the building by the carrying out,
maintenance or use of the authorised development; and

16.12.b

any works the purpose of which is to remedy any damage that has been caused to
the building by the carrying out, maintenance or use of the authorised
development.

#### Removal of human remains


17

17.1

Before the undertaker carries out any development or works which will or may
disturb any human remains in the Order land it must remove those human remains
from the Order land, or cause them to be removed, in accordance with the
following provisions of this article.

17.2

Before any such remains are removed from the Order land the undertaker must
give notice of the intended removal, describing the Order land and stating the
general effect of the following provisions of this article, by—

17.2.a

publishing a notice once in each of two successive weeks in a newspaper
circulating in the area of the authorised development; and

17.2.b

displaying a notice in a conspicuous place on or near to the Order land.

17.3

As soon as reasonably practicable after the first publication of a notice
under paragraph (2) the undertaker must send a copy of the notice to the
relevant planning authority.

17.4

At any time within fifty-six days after the first publication of a notice
under paragraph (2) any person who is a personal representative or relative of
any deceased person whose remains are interred in the specific land may give
notice in writing to the undertaker of that person’s intention to undertake
the removal of the remains.

17.5

Where a person has given notice under paragraph (4), and the remains in
question can be identified, that person may cause such remains to be—

17.5.a

removed and re-interred in any burial ground or cemetery in which burials may
legally take place; or

17.5.b

removed to, and cremated in, any crematorium;

and that person must, as soon as reasonably practicable after such re-
interment or cremation, provide to the undertaker a certificate for the
purpose of enabling compliance with paragraph (10).

17.6

If the undertaker is not satisfied that any person giving notice under
paragraph (4) is the personal representative or relative as that person claims
to be, or that the remains in question can be identified, the question is to
be determined on the application of either party in summary manner by the
county court, and the court may make an order specifying who is to remove the
remains and as to the payment of the costs of the application.

17.7

The undertaker must pay the reasonable expenses of removing and re-interring
or cremating the remains of any deceased person under this article.

17.8

If—

17.8.a

within the period of fifty-six days referred to in paragraph (4) no notice
under that paragraph has been given to the undertaker in respect of any
remains in the Order land;

17.8.b

such notice is given and no application is made under paragraph (6) within
fifty-six days after the giving of the notice but the person who has given the
notice fails to remove the remains within a further period of fifty-six days;

17.8.c

within fifty-six days after any order is made by the county court under
paragraph (6) any person, other than the undertaker, specified in the order
fails to remove the remains; or

17.8.d

it is determined that the remains to which any such notice under paragraph (4)
relates cannot be identified;

subject to paragraph (9), the undertaker must remove the remains and cause
them to be re-interred in such burial ground, or cemetery in which burials may
legally take place as the undertaker thinks suitable for the purpose and, so
far as possible, remains from individual graves must be re-interred in
individual containers which must be identifiable by a record prepared with
reference to the original position of burial of the remains that they contain.

17.9

If the undertaker is satisfied that any person giving notice under paragraph
(4) is the personal representative or relative as that person claims to be and
that the remains in question can be identified, but that person does not
remove the remains, the undertaker must comply with any reasonable request
that person may make in relation to the removal and re-interment or cremation
of the remains.

17.10

On the re-interment or cremation of any remains under this article—

17.10.a

a certificate of re-interment or cremation must be sent by the undertaker to
the Registrar General by the undertaker giving the date of re-interment or
cremation and identifying the place from which the remains were removed and
the place in which they were re-interred or cremated; and

17.10.b

a copy of the certificate of re-interment or cremation and the record
mentioned in paragraph (8) must be sent by the undertaker to the relevant
planning authority mentioned in paragraph (3).

17.11

The removal of the remains of any deceased person under this article must be
carried out in accordance with any directions which may be given by the
Secretary of State.

17.12

Any jurisdiction or function conferred on the county court by this article may
be exercised by the district judge of the court.

17.13

Section 25 (offence of removal of body from burial grounds) of the Burial Act
1857  is not to apply to a removal carried out in accordance with this
article.

### Powers of acquisition


#### Compulsory acquisition of land


18

18.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of the Order land as is
required to carry out or to facilitate, or is incidental to, the authorised
development.

18.2

This article is subject to paragraph  (2)  of article 20 (compulsory
acquisition of rights) and paragraph (8) of article 27 (temporary use of land
for carrying out the authorised development).

#### Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily


19

19.1

After the end of the period of 5 years beginning on the day on which this
Order is made—

19.1.a

no notice to treat is to be served under Part 1 (compulsory Purchase under
Acquisition of Land Act of 1946) of the 1965 Act; and

19.1.b

no declaration is to be executed under section 4 (execution of declaration) of
the 1981 Act  as applied by article 23 (application of the 1981 Act).

19.2

The authority conferred by article 27 (temporary use of land for carrying out
the authorised development) ceases at the end of the period referred to in
paragraph (1), except that nothing in this paragraph prevents the undertaker
remaining in possession of land after the end of that period, if the land was
entered and possession was taken before the end of that period.

#### Compulsory acquisition of rights


20

20.1

Subject to paragraph (2) the undertaker may acquire such rights over the Order
land or impose restrictive covenants affecting the land as may be required for
any purpose for which that land may be acquired under article 18 (compulsory
acquisition of land), by creating them as well as acquiring rights already in
existence.

20.2

Subject to articles 22 (private rights) and 29 (statutory undertakers) in the
case of the Order land specified in column (1) of Schedule 7 (land in which
only new rights etc. may be acquired) the undertaker’s powers of compulsory
acquisition are limited to the acquisition of new rights in the land or the
imposition of restrictive covenants as may be required for the purpose
specified in relation to that land in column (2) of that Schedule.

20.3

Subject to Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in
notice to treat) to the 1965 Act (as substituted by paragraph 10 of Schedule 8
(modification of compensation and compulsory purchase enactments for creation
of new rights and imposition of restrictive covenants)), where the undertaker
acquires a right over land or the benefit of a restrictive covenant, the
undertaker is not required to acquire a greater interest in that land.

20.4

Schedule 8 (modification of compensation and compulsory purchase enactments
for creation of new rights and imposition of new restrictions) has effect for
the purpose of modifying the enactments relating to compensation and the
provisions of the 1965 Act in their application in relation to the compulsory
acquisition under this article of a right over land by the creation of a new
right or the imposition of a restrictive covenant.

20.5

In any case where the acquisition of new rights or the imposition of
restrictive covenants under paragraph (1) is required for the purpose of
diverting, replacing or protecting apparatus of a statutory undertaker, the
undertaker may, with the consent of the Secretary of State, transfer the power
to acquire such rights to the statutory undertaker in question.

20.6

The exercise by a statutory undertaker of any power in accordance with a
transfer under paragraph (5) is subject to the same restrictions, liabilities
and obligations as would apply under this Order if that power were exercised
by the undertaker.

#### Compulsory acquisition of land: minerals


21

Parts 2 and 3 of Schedule 2 (minerals) to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 are
incorporated in this Order, subject to the following modifications—

21.a

paragraph 8(3) is not incorporated;

21.b

for “acquiring authority” substitute  “undertaker” ; and

21.c

for “undertaking” substitute  “authorised development” .

#### Private rights


22

22.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights or restrictive
covenants over land subject to compulsory acquisition under article 18
(compulsory acquisition of land) cease to have effect in so far as their
continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise of the powers under
article 18—

22.1.a

as from the date of acquisition of the land by the undertaker, whether
compulsorily or by agreement; or

22.1.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) (power
of entry) of the 1965 Act

whichever is the earlier.

22.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights or restrictive
covenants over land subject to the compulsory acquisition of rights or the
imposition of restrictive covenants under article 18 (compulsory acquisition
of rights) cease to have effect in so far as their continuance would be
inconsistent with the exercise of the right or compliance with the restrictive
covenant—

22.2.a

as from the date of the acquisition of the right or the imposition of the
restrictive covenant by the undertaker (whether the right is acquired
compulsorily, by agreement or through the grant of lease of the land by
agreement); or

22.2.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the
1965 Act in pursuance of the right,

whichever is the earlier.

22.3

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights or restrictive
covenants over land of which the undertaker takes temporary possession under
this Order are suspended and unenforceable, in so far as their continuance
would be inconsistent with the purpose for which temporary possession is
taken, for as long as the undertaker remains in lawful possession of the land.

22.4

Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private
right or restrictive covenant under this article is entitled to compensation
in accordance with the terms of section 152 (compensation in case where no
right to claim in nuisance) of the 2008 Act to be determined, in case of
dispute, under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation) of
the 1961 Act.

22.5

This article does not apply in relation to any right to which section 138
(extinguishment of rights, and removal of apparatus, of statutory undertakers
etc.) of the 2008 Act or article 29 (statutory undertakers) applies.

22.6

Paragraphs (1) to (3) have effect subject to—

22.6.a

any notice given by the undertaker before—

22.6.a.i

the completion of the acquisition of the land or the acquisition of rights or
the imposition of restrictive covenants over or affecting the land;

22.6.a.ii

the undertaker’s appropriation of the land;

22.6.a.iii

the undertaker’s entry onto the land; or

22.6.a.iv

the undertaker taking temporary possession of the land;

that any or all of those paragraphs do not apply to any right specified in the
notice; or

22.6.b

any agreement made at any time between the undertaker and the person in or to
whom the right in question is vested or belongs.

22.7

If an agreement referred to in paragraph (6)(b)—

22.7.a

is made with a person in or to whom the right is vested or belongs; and

22.7.b

is expressed to have effect also for the benefit of those deriving title from
or under that person;

the agreement is effective in respect of the persons so deriving title,
whether the title was derived before or after the making of the agreement.

22.8

Reference in this article to private rights over land includes reference to
any trusts or incidents to which the land is subject.

#### Application of the 1981 Act


23

23.1

The 1981 Act applies as if this Order were a compulsory purchase order.

23.2

The 1981 Act, as applied, has effect with the following modifications.

23.3

In section 1 (application of Act) for sub-section (2) substitute—

23.3.2

This section applies to any Minister, any local or other public authority or
any other body or person authorised to acquire land by means of a compulsory
purchase order.

23.4

Omit section 5 (earliest date for execution of declaration).

23.5

Omit section 5A (time limit for general vesting declaration).

23.6

In section 5B(1) (extension of time limit during challenge)—

23.6.a

for “section 23 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court
in respect of compulsory purchase order)” substitute  “section 118 of the
Planning Act 2008 (legal challenges relating to applications for orders
granting development consent)” ; and

23.6.b

for “the three year period mentioned in section 5A” substitute  “the five year
period mentioned in article 19 (time limit for exercise of authority to
acquire land compulsorily) of the Awel y Môr Offshore Wind Farm Order 2023” .

23.7

In section 6 (notices after execution of declaration) for sub-section (1)(b)
substitute—

on every other person who has given information to the acquiring authority
with respect to any of that land further to the invitation published and
served under section 134 of the Planning Act 2008,

.

23.8

In section 7 (constructive notice to treat) in sub-section (1)(a) omit “(as
modified by section 4 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981)”.

23.9

In Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general
vesting declaration), for paragraph 1(2) substitute—

      “But see article 24 (acquisition of subsoil only) of the Awel y Môr
Offshore Wind Farm Order 2023 which excludes the acquisition of subsoil from
this Schedule”

.

23.10

References to the 1965 Act in the 1981 Act are to be constructed as references
to the 1965 Act as applied by section 125 (application of compulsory
acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act and as modified by article 25
(modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act) to the compulsory acquisition of the
land under this Order.

#### Acquisition of subsoil only


24

24.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of, or such rights in, the
subsoil of the land referred to in paragraph (1) of article 18 (compulsory
acquisition of land) and paragraph (1) of article 20 (compulsory acquisition
of rights) as may be required for any purpose for which that land may be
acquired under that provision instead of acquiring the whole of the land.

24.2

Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in the subsoil of land
under paragraph (1), the undertaker is not required to acquire an interest in
any other part of the land.

24.3

Paragraph (2) does not prevent Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase
of land not in notice to treat) to the 1965 Act (as modified by article 25
(modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act) or paragraph 10 of Schedule 8 as the
case may be) from applying where the undertaker acquires any part of, or
rights in a cellar, vault, arch or other construction forming part of a house,
building or factory.

24.4

The following do not apply in connection with the exercise of the power under
paragraph (1) in relation to subsoil only—

24.4.a

Schedule 2A to the 1965 Act (as modified by article 25 (modification of Part 1
of the 1965 Act));

24.4.b

Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general vesting
declaration) to the 1981 Act; and

24.4.c

section 153(4A) (blighted land: proposed acquisition of part interest;
material detriment test) of the 1990 Act.

#### Modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act


25

25.1

Part 1 (compulsory purchase under Acquisition of Land Act of 1946) of the 1965
Act, as applied to this Order by section 125 (application of compulsory
acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act, is modified as set out in paragraphs
(2) to (5).

25.2

In section 4A(1)(a) (extension of time limit during challenge) for “section 23
of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court in respect of
compulsory purchase order), the three year period mentioned in section 4”
substitute  “section 118 (legal challenges relating to applications for orders
granting development consent) of the 2008 Act, the five year period mentioned
in article 19 (time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land
compulsorily) of the Awel y Môr Wind Farm Order 2023” .

25.3

In section 11A (powers of entry: further notice of entry)—

25.3.a

in sub-section (1)(a), after “land” insert  “under that provision” ; and

25.3.b

in sub-section (2), after “land” insert  “under that provision” .

25.4

In section 22(2) (expiry of time limit for exercise of compulsory purchase
power not to affect acquisition of interests omitted from purchase), for
“section 4 of this Act” substitute  “article 19 (time limit for exercise of
authority to acquire land compulsorily) of the Awel y Môr Offshore Wind Farm
Order 2023” .

25.5

In Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to
treat)—

25.5.a

for paragraphs 1(2) and 14(2) substitute—

But see article 26(3) (acquisition of subsoil only) of the Awel y Môr Offshore
Wind Farm Order 2023 which excludes the acquisition of subsoil only from this
Schedule

; and

25.5.b

at the end insert—

############ INTERPRETATION


25.5.b.30

In this Schedule, references to entering on and taking possession of land do
not include doing so under article 16 (protective works to buildings), article
27 (temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development) or
article 28 (temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development)
of the Awel y Môr Offshore Wind Farm Order 2023

.

#### Rights under or over streets


26

26.1

The undertaker may enter on and appropriate so much of the subsoil of or air-
space over any street within the Order limits as may be required for the
purposes of the authorised development and may use the subsoil or air-space
for those purposes or any other purpose ancillary to the authorised
development.

26.2

Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may exercise any power conferred by
paragraph (1) in relation to a street without being required to acquire any
part of the street or any easement or right in the street.

26.3

Paragraph (2) does not apply in relation to—

26.3.a

any subway or underground building; or

26.3.b

any cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a street which
forms part of a building fronting onto the street.

26.4

Subject to paragraph (5), any person who is an owner or occupier of land
appropriated under paragraph (1) without the undertaker acquiring any part of
that person’s interest in the land, and who suffers loss as a result, is
entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

26.5

Compensation is not payable under paragraph (4) to any person who is an
undertaker to whom section 85 (sharing of cost of necessary measures) of the
1991 Act applies in respect of measures of which the allowable costs are to be
borne in accordance with that section.

#### Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development


27

27.1

The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised
development, but subject to article 19 (time limit for exercise of authority
to acquire land compulsorily)—

27.1.a

enter on and take temporary possession of—

27.1.a.i

the land specified in column (1) of Schedule 6 (land of which only temporary
possession may be taken) for the purpose specified in relation to that land in
column (2) of that Schedule relating to the part of the authorised development
specified in column (3) of that Schedule; and

27.1.a.ii

any other Order land in respect of which no notice of entry has been served
under section 11 (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act (other than in connection
with the acquisition of rights only) and no declaration has been made under
section 4 (execution of declaration) of the 1981 Act;

27.1.b

remove any buildings, agricultural plant and apparatus, drainage, fences,
debris and vegetation from that land;

27.1.c

construct temporary works (including the provision of means of access),
structures and buildings on that land;

27.1.d

use the land for the purposes of a working site with access to the working
site in connection with the authorised development;

27.1.e

construct any permanent works specified in relation to that land in column (3)
of Schedule 6 (land of which only temporary possession may be taken), or any
other mitigation works in connection with the authorised development; and

27.1.f

construct such works on that land as are mentioned in Part 1 (authorised
development) of Schedule 1 (authorised development).

27.2

Not less than three months before entering on and taking temporary possession
of land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended
entry on the owners and occupiers of the land and explain the purpose for
which entry is taken in respect of land specified under paragraph  (1)(a)(ii)
.

27.3

The undertaker must not, without the agreement of the owners of the land,
remain in possession of any land under this article—

27.3.a

in the case of land specified in paragraph  (1)(a)(i) , after the end of the
period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the part of the
authorised development specified in relation to that land in column (3) of
Schedule 6 (land of which only temporary possession may be taken); or

27.3.b

in the case of any land referred to in paragraph  (1)(a)(ii) , after the end
of the period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the work
for which temporary possession of the land was taken unless the undertaker
has, by the end of that period, served a notice of entry under section 11 of
the 1965 Act or made a declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act in relation
to that land.

27.4

Unless the undertaker has served notice of entry under section 11 of the 1965
Act or made a declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act or otherwise
acquired the land or rights over land subject to temporary possession, before
giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been taken
under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and restore
the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land; but the
undertaker is not required to—

27.4.a

replace a building removed under this article;

27.4.b

restore the land on which any permanent works (including ground strengthening
works) have been constructed under paragraph  (1)(e) ; or

27.4.c

remove any measures installed over or around statutory undertakers’ apparatus
to protect that apparatus from the authorised development.

27.5

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the powers conferred by
this article.

27.6

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph  (5)
, or as to the amount of the compensation, is to be determined under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

27.7

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 (compensation in case where no right to claim in nuisance) of the
2008 Act or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the carrying out of the authorised development, other than loss or damage
for which compensation is payable under paragraph  (5) .

27.8

The undertaker must not compulsorily acquire, acquire new rights over or
impose restrictive covenants over the land referred to in paragraph (1)(a)(i)
of this Order.

27.9

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

27.10

Section 13  (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965
Act applies to the temporary use of land under this article to the same extent
as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by virtue
of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008
Act.

27.11

Paragraph  (1)(a)(ii)  does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary
possession of any land which the undertaker is not authorised to acquire under
article 18 (compulsory acquisition of land) or article 20 (compulsory
acquisition of rights).

#### Temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development


28

28.1

Subject to paragraph (2), at any time during the maintenance period relating
to any part of the authorised development, the undertaker may—

28.1.a

enter on and take temporary possession of any land within the Order land if
such possession is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the
authorised development; and

28.1.b

construct such temporary works (including the provision of means of access)
and buildings on the land as may be reasonably necessary for that purpose.

28.2

Paragraph (1) does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary possession
of—

28.2.a

any house or garden belonging to a house; or

28.2.b

any building (other than a house) if it is for the time being occupied.

28.3

Not less than 28 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land.

28.4

The undertaker may only remain in possession of land under this article for so
long as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the maintenance of the part
of the authorised development for which possession of the land was taken.

28.5

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land.

28.6

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the provisions of this
article.

28.7

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (6),
or as to the amount of the compensation, must be determined under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

28.8

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 (compensation in case where no right to claim in nuisance) of the
2008 Act or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the maintenance of the authorised development, other than loss or damage
for which compensation is payable under paragraph (6).

28.9

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

28.10

Section 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act
applies to the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same
extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by
virtue of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of
the 2008 Act.

28.11

In this article “ the maintenance period ”, in relation to any part of the
authorised development means the period during which the authorised
development exports electricity to the national electricity transmission
network.

#### Statutory undertakers


29

Subject to the provisions of Schedule 9 (protective provisions) the undertaker
may—

29.a

acquire compulsorily, or acquire new rights or impose restrictive covenants
over, the land belonging to statutory undertakers shown on the land plans
within the Order land and described in the book of reference; and

29.b

extinguish the rights of, and remove, relocate the rights of or reposition the
apparatus belonging to statutory undertakers over or within the Order land.

#### Recovery of costs of new connections


30

30.1

Where any apparatus of a public utility undertaker or of a public
communications provider is removed under article 29 (statutory undertakers)
any person who is the owner or occupier of premises to which a supply was
given from that apparatus is entitled to recover from the undertaker
compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in
consequence of the removal, for the purpose of effecting a connection between
the premises and any other apparatus from which a supply is given.

30.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply in the case of the removal of a public sewer but
where such a sewer is removed under article 29 (statutory undertakers), any
person who is—

30.2.a

the owner or occupier of premises the drains of which communicated with that
sewer; or

30.2.b

the owner of a private sewer which communicated with that sewer;

is entitled to recover from the undertaker compensation in respect of
expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in consequence of the removal,
for the purpose of making the drain or sewer belonging to that person
communicate with any other public sewer or with a private sewerage disposal
plant.

30.3

This article does not have effect in relation to apparatus to which Part 3
(street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act applies.

30.4

In this paragraph—

      “ public communications provider ” has the same meaning as in section
151(1) of the 2003 Act ; and           “ public utility undertaker ” means a
gas, water, electricity or sewerage undertaker.

#### Funding


31

31.1

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by the provisions
referred to in paragraph (2) in relation to any Order land unless it has first
put in place either—

31.1.a

a guarantee and the amount of that guarantee approved by the Secretary of
State in respect of the liabilities of the undertaker to pay compensation
pursuant to the provisions referred to in paragraph (2); or

31.1.b

an alternative form of security and the amount of that security for that
purpose approved by the Secretary of State in respect of the liabilities of
the undertaker to pay compensation pursuant to the provisions referred to in
paragraph (2).

31.2

The provisions are—

31.2.a

article 18 (compulsory acquisition of land);

31.2.b

article 20 (compulsory acquisition of rights);

31.2.c

article 22 (private rights);

31.2.d

article 24 (acquisition of subsoil only);

31.2.e

article 26 (rights under or over streets);

31.2.f

article 27 (temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised
development);

31.2.g

article 28 (temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development);

31.2.h

article 29 (statutory undertakers); and

31.2.i

article 30 (recovery of costs of new connections).

31.3

A guarantee or alternative form of security given in respect of any liability
of the undertaker to pay compensation pursuant to the provisions referred to
in paragraph (2) is to be treated as enforceable against the guarantor or
person providing the alternative form of security by any person to whom such
compensation is payable and must be in such a form as to be capable of
enforcement by such a person.

31.4

Nothing in this article requires a guarantee or alternative form of security
to be in place for more than 15 years after the date on which the relevant
power is exercised.

### Miscellaneous and general


#### Application of landlord and tenant law


32

32.1

This article applies to any agreement entered into by the undertaker under
article 6 (benefit of Order) so far as it relates to the terms on which any
land is subject to a lease granted by or under that agreement.

32.2

No enactment or rule of law regulating the rights and obligations of landlords
and tenants prejudices the operation of any agreement to which this article
applies.

32.3

No enactment or rule of law to which paragraph (2) applies is to apply in
relation to the rights and obligations of the parties to any lease granted by
or under any such agreement so as to—

32.3.a

exclude or in any respect modify any of the rights and obligations of those
parties under the terms of the lease, whether with respect to the termination
of the tenancy or any other matter;

32.3.b

confer or impose on any such party any right or obligation arising out of or
connected with anything done or omitted on or in relation to land which is the
subject of the lease, in addition to any such right or obligation provided for
by the terms of the lease; or

32.3.c

restrict the enforcement (whether by action for damages or otherwise) by any
party to the lease of any obligation of any other party under the lease.

#### Felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows


33

33.1

Subject to paragraph (2) and article 34 (trees subject to tree preservation
orders) the undertaker may fell or lop any tree or shrub, or cut back its
roots, within or encroaching upon land within the Order limits if it
reasonably believes it to be necessary to do so to prevent the tree or shrub—

33.1.a

from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or
operation of the authorised development or any apparatus used in connection
with the authorised development; or

33.1.b

from constituting a danger to persons using the authorised development.

33.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1), the undertaker must—

33.2.a

do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub; and

33.2.b

pay compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such
activity.

33.3

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2),
or as to the amount of compensation, is to be determined under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

33.4

The undertaker may, for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
development but subject to paragraph (2)—

33.4.a

remove any hedgerow within the Order limits and specified in Schedule 10, part
1 (removal of hedgerows) that may be required to be removed for the purposes
of carrying out the authorised project; and

33.4.b

remove the important hedgerows as are within the Order limits and specified in
Schedule 10, Part 2 (removal of important hedgerows).

33.5

In this article “hedgerow” and “ important hedgerow ” has the same meaning as
in the Hedgerows Regulations 1997 .

#### Trees subject to tree preservation orders


34

34.1

Subject to paragraph (2), the undertaker must not fell or lop or cut back the
roots of any tree which is the subject of a tree preservation order.

34.2

The undertaker may fell or lop any tree within or encroaching upon the Order
limits that is subject to a tree preservation order which was made after 20
April 2022, or cut back its roots, if it reasonably believes it to be
necessary in order to do so in order to prevent the tree—

34.2.a

from obstructing or interfering with onshore site preparation works the
construction, maintenance or operation of the authorised development or any
apparatus used in connection with the authorised development; or

34.2.b

from constituting an unacceptable source of danger (whether to children or to
other persons).

34.3

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1)—

34.3.a

the undertaker must not cause unnecessary damage to any tree and must pay
compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such activity;
and

34.3.b

the duty contained in section 206(1) (replacement of trees) of the 1990 Act
does not apply.

34.4

The authority given by paragraph (1) constitutes a deemed consent under the
relevant tree preservation order.

34.5

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2),
or as to the amount of compensation, must be determined under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

#### Abatement of works abandoned or decayed


35

Where any of the offshore works or any part of them is abandoned or allowed to
fall into decay, the Secretary of State may, following consultation with the
undertaker, issue a written notice requiring the undertaker at its own expense
either to repair, make safe and restore one or any of those works, or remove
Work No. 1 or any relevant part of it, without prejudice to any notice served
under section 105(2) (requirement to prepare decommissioning programmes) of
the 2004 Act . The notice may also require the restoration of the site of the
relevant part(s) of Work No 1.

#### Saving provisions for Trinity House


36

Nothing in this Order prejudices or derogates from any of the rights, duties
or privileges of Trinity House.

#### Crown rights


37

37.1

Nothing in this Order affects prejudicially any estate, right, power,
privilege, authority or exemption of the Crown and in particular,  nothing in
this Order authorises the undertaker or any lessee or licensee to take, use,
enter upon or in any manner interfere with   any land or rights of any
description (including any portion of the shore or bed of the sea or any
river, channel, creek, bay or estuary)—

37.1.a

belonging to His Majesty in right of the Crown and forming part of The Crown
Estate without the consent in writing of the Crown Estate Commissioners;

37.1.b

belonging to His Majesty in right of the Crown and not forming part of The
Crown Estate without the consent in writing of the government department
having the management of that land; or

37.1.c

belonging to a government department or held in trust for His Majesty for the
purposes of a government department without the consent in writing of that
government department.

37.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply to the exercise of any right under this Order for
the compulsory acquisition of an interest in any Crown land (as defined in the
2008 Act) which is for the time being held otherwise than by or on behalf of
the Crown.

37.3

A consent under paragraph (1) may be given unconditionally or subject to terms
and conditions; and is deemed to have been given in writing where it is sent
electronically.

#### Protective provisions


38

Schedule 9 (protective provisions) has effect.

#### Operational land for the purposes of the 1990 Act


39

Development consent granted by this Order is to be treated as specific
planning permission for the purposes of section 264(3)(a) (cases in which land
is to be treated as not being operational land) of the 1990 Act.

#### Certification of plans, etc.


40

40.1

The undertaker must, as soon as practicable after the making of this Order,
submit to the Secretary of State copies of all of the documents listed in
Schedule 13 (documents to be certified) for certification that they are true
copies of the documents referred to in this Order.

40.2

A plan or document so certified is admissible in any proceedings as evidence
of the contents of the document of which it is a copy.

#### Service of notices


41

41.1

A notice or other document required or authorised to be served for the
purposes of this Order may be served—

41.1.a

by post;

41.1.b

by delivering it to the person on whom it is to be served or to whom it is to
be given or supplied; or

41.1.c

with the consent of the recipient and   subject to paragraphs (5) to (8) by
electronic transmission .

41.2

Where the person on whom a notice or other document to be served for the
purposes of this Order is a body corporate, the notice or document is duly
served if it is served on the secretary or clerk of that body.

41.3

For the purposes of section 7 (references to service by post) of the
Interpretation Act 1978  as it applies for the purposes of this article, the
proper address of any person in relation to the service on that person of a
notice or document under paragraph (1) is, if that person has given an address
for service, that address, and otherwise—

41.3.a

in the case of the secretary or clerk of a body corporate, the registered or
principal office of that body; and

41.3.b

in any other case, the last known address of that person at the time of
service.

41.4

Where for the purposes of this Order a notice or other document is required or
authorised to be served on a person as having any interest in, or as the
occupier of, land and the name or address of that person cannot be ascertained
after reasonable enquiry, the notice may be served by—

41.4.a

addressing it to that person by name or by the description of “owner”, or as
the case may be “occupier”, of the land (describing it); and

41.4.b

either leaving it in the hands of a person who is or appears to be resident or
employed on the land or leaving it conspicuously affixed to some building or
object on or near the land.

41.5

Where a notice or other document required to be served or sent for the
purposes of this Order is served or sent by electronic transmission the
requirement is to be taken to be fulfilled only where—

41.5.a

the recipient of the notice or other document to be transmitted has given
consent to the use of electronic transmission in writing or by electronic
transmission;

41.5.b

the notice or document is capable of being accessed by the recipient;

41.5.c

the notice or document is legible in all material respects; and

41.5.d

the notice or document is in a form sufficiently permanent to be used for
subsequent reference.

41.6

Where the recipient of a notice or other document served or sent by electronic
transmission notifies the sender within seven days of receipt that the
recipient requires a paper copy of all or part of that notice or other
document the sender must provide such a copy as soon as reasonably
practicable.

41.7

Any consent to the use of electronic communication given by a person may be
revoked by that person in accordance with paragraph  (8) .

41.8

Where a person is no longer willing to accept the use of electronic
transmission for any of the purposes of this Order—

41.8.a

that person must give notice in writing or by electronic transmission revoking
any consent given by that person for that purpose; and

41.8.b

such revocation is final and takes effect on a date specified by the person in
the notice but that date must not be less than seven days after the date on
which the notice is given.

41.9

This article does not exclude the employment of any method of service not
expressly provided for by it.

41.10

In this article “ legible in all material respects ” means that the
information contained in the notice or document is available to that person to
no lesser extent than it would be if served, given or supplied by means of a
notice or document in printed form.

#### No double recovery


42

Compensation is not payable in respect of the same matter both under this
Order and under any other enactment, any contract or any rule of law, or under
two or more different provisions of this Order.

#### Requirements, appeals, etc.


43

43.1

Sub-section (1) of section 78 (right to appeal against planning decisions and
failure to take such decision) of the 1990 Act applies to the development
consent granted by this Order and to the requirements except that it is
modified so as to read for the purposes of this Order only as follows—

43.1.a

after “local planning authority” insert  “or Secretary of State” ;

43.1.b

after sub-section (b) insert the following—

      “refuse or fails to determine an application for any consent, agreement
or approval of that authority required by a requirement imposed on a grant of
development consent or contained in a development consent order, or grant it
subject to conditions; or”’; and         after sub-section (1), insert the
following—       1A     Where the appeal under sub-section (1) relates to a
decision by the Secretary of State, the appeal will be decided by a Secretary
of State who would not be responsible for determining an application for
development consent with the subject matter of the Awel y Môr Offshore Wind
Farm Order 2023 as if section 103(1) of the 2008 Act applied.

43.2

Sections 78 (right to appeal against planning decisions and failure to take
such decisions) and 79 (determination of appeals) of the 1990 Act have effect
in relation to any appeal under the terms of this article except that the
Secretary of State in question is the Secretary of State who would be
responsible for determining an application for development consent with the
subject matter of this Order if section 103(1) (Secretary of State is to
decide applications) of the 2008 Act applied.

#### Arbitration


44

44.1

Subject to article 36 (saving provisions for Trinity House) any difference
under any provision of this Order, unless otherwise provided for, is to be
referred to and settled in arbitration in accordance with the rules at
Schedule 12 (arbitration rules) of this Order, by a single arbitrator to be
agreed upon by the parties, within 14 days of receipt of the notice of
arbitration, or if the parties fail to agree within the time period
stipulated, to be appointed on application of either party (after giving
written notice to the other) by the Secretary of State.

44.2

For the avoidance of doubt, any matter for which the consent or approval of
the Secretary of State is required under any provision of this Order is not
subject to arbitration.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Energy Security and
Net Zero       David Wagstaff   Deputy Director, Energy Infrastructure
Planning   Department for Energy Security and Net Zero     19th September 2023

  Authorised development

Article 2

##### Authorised development


  A nationally significant infrastructure project as defined in sections 14
(Nationally significant infrastructure projects: general) and 15 (generating
stations) of the 2008 Act which is located in the Irish Sea approximately 11
kilometres from the coast of North Wales and, comprising—

  Work No. 1—     a     an offshore wind turbine generating station with a
gross electrical output capacity of over 350 megawatts, comprising up to 50
wind turbine generators each fixed to the seabed by a foundation, and further
comprising (b) to (f) below;         b     up to two offshore substation
platforms each fixed to the seabed by a foundation;         c     one
meteorological mast fixed to the seabed by a foundation;         d
floating buoys;         e     installation of subsea cable circuit to the
Gwynt y Môr Offshore Wind Farm including cable crossings and cable protection;
and         f     a network of subsea inter-array cables between (a), (b),
(c), (d) and (e) including cable crossings and cable protection;

  and associated development within the meaning of section 115(2) (development
for which development consent may be granted) of the 2008 Act comprising—

  Offshore

  Work No.1A—  Installation of a subsea cable circuit to the Gwynt y Môr
Offshore Wind Farm, and alteration of existing scour protection, cable
protection and cable crossings.

  Work No. 2—  Installation of up to two subsea cable circuits between Work
No. 1 and Work No. 3 including up to three cable ducts (if required), cable
protection and cable crossings.

  Work No. 2A — Cofferdam works including piling and creation of pits for
trenchless installation techniques.

  Intertidal and in the County of Denbighshire

  Work No. 3—     a     installation of up to two subsea cable circuits
between Work No. 2 and Work No. 4 including up to three cable ducts (if
required), cable protection and cable crossings;         b     cofferdam works
including piling and creation of pits for trenchless installation techniques,
trenchless installation technique works including the creation of entrance and
exit pits;         c     removal and remediation of groynes; and         d
construction and use of haul roads, temporary construction working areas,
cable installation vessel anchoring and laydown area.

  Work No. 3A — Temporary working area including use for cable installation
vessel anchoring.

  Work Nos. 1, 1A, 2, 2A, 3 and 3A are to be constructed seaward of MHWS
within the area delineated by the co-ordinates shown on the location plan and
listed in the Table 1 below, and within the area for each Work No. as shown on
the works plan—     Table 1       Point Latitude Longitude   A 53° 19′ 56.591″
N 3° 27′ 34.474″ W B 53° 19′ 56.903″ N 3° 27′ 34.589″ W C 53° 19′ 57.216″ N 3°
27′ 34.704″ W D 53° 19′ 57.287″ N 3° 27′ 34.739″ W E 53° 19′ 57.477″ N 3° 27′
34.801″ W F 53° 19′ 57.571″ N 3° 27′ 35.234″ W G 53° 19′ 59.287″ N 3° 27′
44.509″ W H 53° 20′ 01.946″ N 3° 27′ 55.679″ W I 53° 20′ 06.255″ N 3° 28′
11.773″ W J 53° 20′ 26.855″ N 3° 29′ 10.391″ W K 53° 20′ 37.646″ N 3° 30′
06.246″ W L 53° 20′ 47.343″ N 3° 31′ 39.900″ W M 53° 20′ 50.884″ N 3° 32′
13.851″ W N 53° 22′ 14.257″ N 3° 34′ 55.252″ W O 53° 22′ 58.820″ N 3° 36′
30.530″ W P 53° 23′ 04.561″ N 3° 36′ 37.916″ W Q 53° 23′ 08.522″ N 3° 36′
42.054″ W R 53° 23′ 12.999″ N 3° 36′ 45.555″ W S 53° 23′ 17.090″ N 3° 36′
49.051″ W T 53° 23′ 21.056″ N 3° 36′ 52.116″ W U 53° 23′ 25.025″ N 3° 36′
54.537″ W V 53° 23′ 28.743″ N 3° 36′ 55.879″ W W 53° 23′ 31.952″ N 3° 36′
56.140″ W X 53° 23′ 36.191″ N 3° 36′ 55.987″ W Y 53° 23′ 41.939″ N 3° 36′
54.249″ W Z 53° 23′ 47.152″ N 3° 37′ 19.725″ W AA 53° 23′ 48.620″ N 3° 37′
27.526″ W AB 53° 23′ 52.897″ N 3° 37′ 51.225″ W AC 53° 23′ 59.322″ N 3° 38′
24.147″ W AD 53° 24′ 04.446″ N 3° 38′ 50.837″ W AE 53° 24′ 15.695″ N 3° 39′
49.463″ W AF 53° 24′ 25.334″ N 3° 40′ 34.286″ W AG 53° 24′ 35.822″ N 3° 41′
23.083″ W AH 53° 24′ 48.410″ N 3° 42′ 22.278″ W AI 53° 24′ 50.783″ N 3° 42′
33.447″ W AJ 53° 24′ 58.061″ N 3° 43′ 09.291″ W AK 53° 25′ 07.441″ N 3° 43′
55.520″ W AL 53° 25′ 18.073″ N 3° 44′ 45.489″ W AM 53° 25′ 18.124″ N 3° 44′
45.726″ W AN 53° 25′ 57.263″ N 3° 47′ 53.732″ W AO 53° 26′ 42.822″ N 3° 51′
33.277″ W AP 53° 26′ 45.640″ N 3° 51′ 46.880″ W AQ 53° 26′ 54.174″ N 3° 52′
28.086″ W AR 53° 27′ 38.880″ N 3° 52′ 29.291″ W AS 53° 28′ 07.642″ N 3° 51′
49.081″ W AT 53° 29′ 04.923″ N 3° 51″ 50.621″ W AU 53° 29′ 08.519″ N 3° 51′
50.717″ W AV 53° 29′ 14.611″ N 3° 51′ 50.880″ W AW 53° 29′ 16.731″ N 3° 51′
50.937″ W AX 53° 29′ 16.811″ N 3° 51′ 44.229″ W AY 53° 29′ 16.893″ N 3° 51′
37.376″ W AZ 53° 29′ 26.671″ N 3° 36′ 37.688″ W BA 53° 29′ 07.090″ N 3° 37′
36.681″ W BB 53° 28′ 41.908″ N 3° 38′ 47.993″W BC 53° 28′ 31.364″ N 3° 39′
17.852″ W BD 53° 28′ 05.012″ N 3° 40′ 32.271″ W BE 53° 27′ 41.330″ N 3° 40′
54.541″ W BF 53° 27′ 41.174″ N 3° 40′ 54.481″ W BG 53° 27′ 22.531″ N 3° 40′
39.722″ W BH 53° 27′ 17.024″ N 3° 40′ 24.467″ W BI 53° 27′ 21.135″ N 3° 39′
55.867″ W BJ 53° 27′ 04.200″ N 3° 39′ 43.765″ W BK 53° 26′ 57.347″ N 3° 39′
24.931″ W BL 53° 27′ 01.451″ N 3° 38′ 57.761″ W BM 53° 26′ 43.034″ N 3° 38′
42.126″ W BN 53° 26′ 40.500″ N 3° 38′ 36.582″ W BO 53° 26′ 36.947″ N 3° 38′
17.215″ W BP 53° 26′ 26.587″ N 3° 37′ 28.603″ W BQ 53° 26′ 19.457″ N 3° 37′
17.500″ W BR 53° 26′ 11.113″ N 3° 37′ 16.494″ W BS 53° 26′ 02.742″ N 3° 37′
27.803″ W BT 53° 25′ 52.313″ N 3° 37′ 34.518″ W BU 53° 25′ 40.571″ N 3° 39′
12.934″ W BV 53° 25′ 55.147″ N 3° 39′ 50.832″ W BW 53° 25′ 57.330″ N 3° 39′
56.489″ W BX 53° 25′ 59.460″ N 3° 40′ 02.100″ W BY 53° 25′ 59.220″ N 3° 40′
08.910″ W BZ 53° 25′ 58.980″ N 3° 40′ 15.719″ W CA 53° 26′ 00.000″ N 3° 40′
21.929″ W CB 53° 26′ 01.019″ N 3° 40′ 28.140″ W CC 53° 25′ 24.660″ N 3° 39′
50.219″ W CD 53° 24′ 47.491″ N 3° 38′ 05.284″ W CE 53° 24′ 19.284″ N 3° 36′
02.274″ W CF 53° 24′ 17.813″ N 3° 36′ 01.036″ W CG 53° 24′ 16.556″ N 3° 35′
59.908″ W CH 53° 24′ 15.363″ N 3° 35′ 58.852″ W CI 53° 24′ 13.551″ N 3° 35′
57.286″ W CJ 53° 24′ 11.718″ N 3° 35′ 55.685″ W CK 53° 24′ 10.163″ N 3° 35′
54.302″ W CL 53° 24′ 08.373″ N 3° 35′ 52.701″ W CM 53° 24′ 07.431″ N 3° 35′
51.914″ W CN 53° 24′ 06.483″ N 3° 35′ 51.299″ W CO 53° 24′ 03.796″ N 3° 35′
49.370″ W CP 53° 24′ 02.815″ N 3° 35′ 48.597″ W CQ 53° 23′ 59.916″ N 3° 35′
46.150″ W CR 53° 23′ 58.296″ N 3° 35′ 44.866″ W CS 53° 23′ 57.375″ N 3° 35′
44.109″ W CT 53° 23′ 56.556″ N 3° 35′ 43.524″ W CU 53° 23′ 55.242″ N 3° 35′
42.675″ W CV 53° 23′ 54.337″ N 3° 35′ 42.175″ W CW 53° 23′ 53.214″ N 3° 35′
41.575″ W CX 53° 23′ 51.463″ N 3° 35′ 40.762″ W CY 53° 23′ 49.840″ N 3° 35′
40.023″ W CZ 53° 23′ 49.135″ N 3° 35′ 39.620″ W DA 53° 23′ 48.109″ N 3° 35′
39.462″ W DB 53° 23′ 46.163″ N 3° 35′ 39.041″ W DC 53° 23′ 44.324″ N 3° 35′
38.729″ W DD 53° 23′ 43.233″ N 3° 35′ 38.535″ W DE 53° 23′ 41.125″ N 3° 35′
38.564″ W DF 53° 23′ 39.301″ N 3° 35′ 38.732″ W DG 53° 23′ 37.682″ N 3° 35′
38.860″ W DH 53° 23′ 36.950″ N 3° 35′ 38.850″ W DI 53° 23′ 35.408″ N 3° 35′
39.043″ W DJ 53° 23′ 34.249″ N 3° 35′ 39.564″ W DK 53° 23′ 33.464″ N 3° 35′
39.813″ W DL 53° 23′ 33.093″ N 3° 35′ 39.964″ W DM 53° 23′ 32.980″ N 3° 35′
39.997″ W DN 53° 23′ 32.688″ N 3° 35′ 40.084″ W DO 53° 23′ 32.256″ N 3° 35′
40.198″ W DP 53° 23′ 31.741″ N 3° 35′ 40.420″ W DQ 53° 23′ 31.344″ N 3° 35′
40.539″ W DR 53° 23′ 30.663″ N 3° 35′ 40.717″ W DS 53° 23′ 30.312″ N 3° 35′
40.818″ W DT 53° 23′ 29.994″ N 3° 35′ 40.911″ W DU 53° 23′ 29.914″ N 3° 35′
40.933″ W DV 53° 23′ 29.832″ N 3° 35′ 40.973″ W DW 53° 23′ 29.634″ N 3° 35′
41.056″ W DX 53° 23′ 29.502″ N 3° 35′ 41.118″ W DY 53° 23′ 29.387″ N 3° 35′
41.163″ W DZ 53° 23′ 29.270″ N 3° 35′ 41.210″ W EA 53° 23′ 29.181″ N 3° 35′
41.244″ W EB 53° 23′ 29.079″ N 3° 35′ 41.284″ W EC 53° 23′ 28.953″ N 3° 35′
41.334″ W ED 53° 23′ 28.909″ N 3° 35′ 41.351″ W EE 53° 23′ 28.880″ N 3° 35′
41.409″ W EF 53° 23′ 28.818″ N 3° 35′ 41.533″ W EG 53° 23′ 28.748″ N 3° 35′
41.667″ W EH 53° 23′ 28.682″ N 3° 35′ 41.787″ W EI 53° 23′ 28.405″ N 3° 35′
42.245″ W EJ 53° 23′ 28.131″ N 3° 35′ 42.634″ W EK 53° 23′ 27.851″ N 3° 35′
42.974″ W EL 53° 23′ 27.602″ N 3° 35′ 43.238″ W EM 53° 23′ 27.310″ N 3° 35′
43.504″ W EN 53° 23′ 26.906″ N 3° 35′ 43.805″ W EO 53° 23′ 26.645″ N 3° 35′
43.962″ W EP 53° 23′ 26.165″ N 3° 35′ 44.180″ W EQ 53° 23′ 25.842″ N 3° 35′
44.279″ W ER 53° 23′ 25.444″ N 3° 35′ 44.349″ W ES 53° 23′ 25.068″ N 3° 35′
44.365″ W ET 53° 23′ 24.716″ N 3° 35′ 44.335″ W EU 53° 23′ 24.468″ N 3° 35′
44.288″ W EV 53° 23′ 24.142″ N 3° 35′ 44.194″ W EW 53° 23′ 23.875″ N 3° 35′
44.088″ W EX 53° 23′ 23.481″ N 3° 35′ 43.880″ W EY 53° 23′ 23.251″ N 3° 35′
43.729″ W EZ 53° 23′ 23.012″ N 3° 35′ 43.548″ W FA 53° 23′ 22.882″ N 3° 35′
43.438″ W FB 53° 23′ 22.734″ N 3° 35′ 43.303″ W FC 53° 23′ 22.557″ N 3° 35′
43.127″ W FD 53° 23′ 22.112″ N 3° 35′ 42.600″ W FE 53° 23′ 21.779″ N 3° 35′
42.114″ W FF 53° 23′ 21.513″ N 3° 35′ 41.653″ W FG 53° 23′ 21.301″ N 3° 35′
41.228″ W FH 53° 23′ 21.074″ N 3° 35′ 40.697″ W FI 53° 23′ 13.240″ N 3° 35′
24.325″ W FJ 53° 23′ 09.510″ N 3° 35′ 16.827″ W FK 53° 22′ 44.082″ N 3° 34′
23.783″ W FL 53° 21′ 33.122″ N 3° 32′ 10.584″ W FM 53° 21′ 20.903″ N 3° 31′
45.816″ W FN 53° 21′ 18.580″ N 3° 31′ 29.186″ W FO 53° 21′ 06.879″ N 3° 29′
50.362″ W FP 53° 20′ 56.981″ N 3° 28′ 51.981″ W FQ 53° 20′ 37.819″ N 3° 27′
52.310″ W FR 53° 20′ 31.441″ N 3° 27′ 32.461″ W FS 53° 20′ 29.868″ N 3° 27′
27.564″ W FT 53° 20′ 29.239″ N 3° 27′ 25.217″ W FU 53° 20′ 26.020″ N 3° 27′
15.899″ W FV 53° 20′ 25.601″ N 3° 27′ 15.520″ W FW 53° 20′ 25.190″ N 3° 27′
15.220″ W FX 53° 20′ 24.502″ N 3° 27′ 14.846″ W FY 53° 20′ 23.456″ N 3° 27′
14.126″ W FZ 53° 20′ 22.026″ N 3° 27′ 13.420″ W GA 53° 20′ 21.377″ N 3° 27′
13.087″ W GB 53° 20′ 20.189″ N 3° 27′ 12.303″ W GC 53° 20′ 15.453″ N 3° 27′
09.555″ W GD 53° 20′ 14.270″ N 3° 27′ 08.901″ W GE 53° 20′ 13.460″ N 3° 27′
08.493″ W GF 53° 20′ 12.395″ N 3° 27′ 07.779″ W GG 53° 20′ 11.610″ N 3° 27′
07.036″ W GH 53° 20′ 11.327″ N 3° 27′ 06.816″ W GI 53° 20′ 11.090″ N 3° 27′
06.631″ W GJ 53° 20′ 10.973″ N 3° 27′ 06.540″ W GK 53° 20′ 10.853″ N 3° 27′
06.447″ W GL 53° 20′ 10.475″ N 3° 27′ 06.152″ W GM 53° 20′ 10.096″ N 3° 27′
05.857″ W GN 53° 20′ 08.741″ N 3° 27′ 04.994″ W GO 53° 20′ 08.658″ N 3° 27′
04.941″ W GP 53° 20′ 08.625″ N 3° 27′ 04.920″ W GQ 53° 19′ 59.650″ N 3° 26′
59.204″ W GR 53° 19′ 57.732″ N 3° 26′ 58.372″ W GS 53° 19′ 57.493″ N 3° 27′
00.000″ W GT 53° 19′ 57.478″ N 3° 27′ 00.448″ W GU 53° 19′ 57.578″ N 3° 27′
01.284″ W GV 53° 19′ 57.742″ N 3° 27′ 02.138″ W GW 53° 19′ 57.772″ N 3° 27′
02.631″ W GX 53° 19′ 57.689″ N 3° 27′ 03.331″ W GY 53° 19′ 57.535″ N 3° 27′
03.969″ W GZ 53° 19′ 57.282″ N 3° 27′ 05.123″ W HA 53° 19′ 57.188″ N 3° 27′
05.644″ W HB 53° 19′ 57.091″ N 3° 27′ 06.176″ W HC 53° 19′ 56.961″ N 3° 27′
06.734″ W HD 53° 19′ 56.748″ N 3° 27′ 07.500″ W HE 53° 19′ 56.687″ N 3° 27′
07.979″ W HF 53° 19′ 56.646″ N 3° 27′ 08.421″ W HG 53° 19′ 56.429″ N 3° 27′
09.257″ W HH 53° 19′ 56.265″ N 3° 27′ 09.705″ W HI 53° 19′ 55.987″ N 3° 27′
10.474″ W HJ 53° 19′ 55.637″ N 3° 27′ 11.441″ W HK 53° 19′ 55.347″ N 3° 27′
12.258″ W HL 53° 19′ 54.677″ N 3° 27′ 14.128″ W HM 53° 19′ 54.315″ N 3° 27′
15.153″ W HN 53° 19′ 54.067″ N 3° 27′ 15.897″ W HO 53° 19′ 54.019″ N 3° 27′
16.041″ W HP 53° 19′ 53.753″ N 3° 27′ 16.918″ W HQ 53° 19′ 53.495″ N 3° 27′
17.926″ W HR 53° 19′ 53.279″ N 3° 27′ 18.892″ W HS 53° 19′ 53.012″ N 3° 27′
19.829″ W HT 53° 19′ 52.813″ N 3° 27′ 20.530″ W HU 53° 19′ 52.615″ N 3° 27′
21.351″ W HV 53° 19′ 52.571″ N 3° 27′ 21.579″ W HW 53° 19′ 52.439″ N 3° 27′
22.269″ W HX 53° 19′ 52.020″ N 3° 27′ 25.023″ W HY 53° 19′ 51.867″ N 3° 27′
26.071″ W HZ 53° 19′ 52.837″ N 3° 27′ 27.871″ W IA 53° 19′ 56.346″ N 3° 27′
34.384″ W

  In the County of Denbighshire:

  Work No. 4 — Installation of up to two buried cable circuits with up to
three cable ducts (if required) between Work No. 3 and Work No. 5; including
cable crossings, cable protection, cofferdam works including piling,
trenchless installation technique works, creation of pits for trenchless
installation techniques; cable trenching works and removal and remediation of
groynes, construction of haul road, temporary construction working areas,
cable installation vessel anchoring and laydown area.

  Work No. 5—  Installation of up to two buried cable circuits with up to 3
cable ducts (if required) between Work No. 4 and Work No. 8; including
trenchless installation technique works, and temporary construction working
areas and laydown area.

  Work No. 6—  Temporary working area including:     a     creation of
construction access to Work Nos. 3, 3A, 4, 5, 6A and 7 from Rhyl Coast Road;
including works to junctions and visibility splays and removal and remediation
of groynes; and         b     trenchless installation technique works.

  Work No. 6A — Within Work No. 6 construction of a temporary construction
compound and laydown area.

  Work No. 7 — Creation of construction and operational access to Work Nos. 3,
3A, 4, 5, 6 and 6A from Rhyl Coast Road; including works to junctions and
visibility splays, and removal and remediation of groynes, construction of a
haul road, temporary construction working areas and laydown area.

  Work No. 7A — Within Work No. 7, construction of a temporary construction
compound and laydown area.

  Work No. 8—  Installation of up to two buried cable circuits with up to 3
cable ducts (if required) and—     a     construction of a haul road;
b     a temporary construction working area;         c     creation and
improvement of accesses including works to junctions and visibility splays;
and         d     improvement works to existing bridge.

  Work No. 8A—  Within Work No. 8, installation of:     a     up to two
transition joint bays;         b     trenchless installation techniques
including the creation of pits; and         c     a temporary construction
compound.

  Work No. 9—  Installation of up to two buried cable circuits with cable
ducts (if required) between Work No. 8 and Work No. 11 from the south of the
landfall to Dyserth Road, approximately 734 m; cable ducts, trenchless
installation technique pit works including the creation of entrance and exit
pits, and cable trenching works; construction of a haul road, temporary
construction accesses and working areas and laydown area, creation and
improvement of accesses including works to junctions and visibility splays.

  Work No. 10 — Creation of construction access, construction of a haul road,
temporary construction working areas and laydown, and creation and improvement
of accesses to the public highway including works to junctions and visibility
splays.

  Work No. 10A — Within Work No. 10, the creation of a temporary construction
compound of no more than 10,000 m 2 .

  Work No. 11—  Installation of up to two buried cable circuits with cable
ducts (if required) between Work No. 9 and Work No. 15 from Dyserth Road to
the A525/A547 highway, approximately 2,467 m; including cable ducts,
trenchless installation technique pit works including the creation of entrance
and exit pits and cable trenching works; construction of a haul road,
temporary construction working areas and laydown area, creation and
improvement of accesses including works to junctions and visibility splays.

  Work No. 12—  Creation of construction access, construction of a haul road,
temporary construction working areas and laydown area and works to create a
temporary crossing.

  Work No. 13—  Creation of construction access, construction of a haul road,
temporary construction working areas and laydown area.

  Work No. 14—  Creation of construction access, construction of a haul road,
temporary construction working area and laydown area, and creation and
improvement of accesses to the public highway including works to junctions and
visibility splays.

  Work No. 14A — Within Work No. 14, the creation of a temporary construction
compound of no more than 22,500 m 2 .

  Work No. 15 — Installation of up to two buried cable circuits with cable
ducts (if required) between Work No. 11 and Work No. 18 from the A525/A547
highway to the river Ffyddion approximately 763 m; including cable crossings,
trenchless technique pit works including the creation of entrance and exit
pits and cable trenching works; construction of a haul road including
watercourse crossing, temporary construction working areas and laydown area,
creation and improvement of accesses.

  Work No. 16—  Creation of construction access, construction of a haul road,
temporary working areas and laydown area, and creation and improvement of
accesses to the public highway including works to junctions and visibility
splays.

  Work No. 16A — Within Work No. 16, the creation of a temporary construction
compound of no more than 10,000 m 2 .

  Work No. 17—  Creation of construction access, construction of a haul road,
temporary construction working areas and laydown area to north of the river
Clwyd, and creation and improvement of accesses to public highway including
works to junctions and visibility splays .

  Work No. 18 — Installation of up to two buried cable circuits with cable
ducts (if required) between Work No. 15 and Work No. 19 from the river
Ffyddion to the river Clwyd, approximately 485 m; including cable ducts,
trenchless technique pit works including the creation of entrance and exit
pits and cable trenching works; construction of a haul road including
watercourse crossing, temporary construction working area and laydown area and
creation and improvement of accesses.

  Work No. 19 — Installation of up to two buried cable circuits within cable
ducts (if required) between Work No. 18 and Work No. 21 from the river Clywd
to the A547/Abergele Road approximately 1,003 m; including cable ducts,
trenchless technique pit works including the creation of entrance and exit
pits and cable trenching works; construction of a haul road, temporary
construction working areas and laydown area, creation and improvement of
accesses including works to junctions and visibility splays.

  Work No. 20—  Creation of construction access, construction of a haul road,
temporary construction working areas and laydown area to north of the
A547/Abergele Road, and creation and improvement of accesses to public highway
including works to junctions and visibility splays.

  Work No. 20A — Within Work No. 20 ,  construction of temporary construction
compound of no more than 22,500 m 2 .

  Work No. 21—  Installation of up to two buried cable circuits within cable
ducts (if required) between Work No. 19 and Work No. 23; from the
A547/Abergele Road to Bodelwyddan Road, approximately 1,021 m; including cable
ducts, trenchless technique pit works including the creation of entrance and
exit pits and cable trenching works; construction of a haul road, temporary
construction working areas and laydown area, creation and improvement of
accesses including works to junctions and visibility splays.

  Work No. 22—  Creation of construction access, construction of a haul road,
temporary working area and laydown area to the north of Bodelwyddan Road, and
creation and improvement of accesses to the public highway including works to
junctions and visibility splays.

  Work No. 22A — Within Work No. 22, construction of a temporary construction
compound of no more than 10,000 m 2 .

  Work No. 23—  Installation of up to two buried cable circuits within cable
ducts (if required) between Work No. 21 and Work No. 29 from Bodelwyddan Road
to the south of the A55 highway, approximately 2,432 m; including cable ducts,
trenchless technique pit works including the creation of entrance and exit
pits and cable trenching works; construction of a haul road, temporary
construction working areas and laydown area, creation and improvement of
accesses including works to junctions and visibility splays.

  Work No. 24—  Creation of construction access, works to temporarily improve
and increase visibility splays for the public highway during construction .

  Work No. 25—  Creation of construction access, construction of a haul road,
temporary construction working areas and laydown area and improvements to
existing bridge.

  Work No. 26—  Creation of construction access, construction of a haul road,
temporary construction working areas and laydown area to the north of the A55
road and creation and improvement of accesses to public highway including
works to junctions and visibility splays .

  Work No. 26A — Within Work No. 26, the construction of a temporary
construction compound of no more than 22,500 m 2 .

  Work No. 27—  Creation of construction access, construction of a haul road,
temporary construction working areas and laydown area and creation and
improvement of accesses to the public highway including works to junctions and
visibility splays .

  Work No. 28—  Drainage works including connections to existing drainage and
creation of new sustainable drainage including attenuation pond(s).

  Work No. 29—  Installation of up to two buried cable circuits with cable
ducts (if required) between Work No. 23 and Work Nos. 31 and 31A from south of
the A55 highway to the electrical substation approximately 197 m, including:
a     cable ducts, trenchless installation technique pit works including the
creation of entrance and exit pits and cable trenching works;         b
construction of a haul road, temporary construction working areas and laydown
area;         c     creation and improvement of accesses including works to
junctions and visibility splay;         d     permanent landscaping,
ecological and environmental works;         e     drainage works including
connections to existing drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage
including attenuation pond(s); and         f     utilities connections area.

  Work No. 30 — An access, drainage and utilities works area comprising:     a
temporary construction working areas and laydown areas;         b
temporary access roads and haul road including temporary land re-profiling;
c     drainage works including connections to existing drainage and creation
of new sustainable drainage including attenuation pond(s);         d
permanent landscaping, ecological and environmental works; and         e
utilities connections.

  Work No. 30A—  Within Work No. 30, creation of a temporary construction
compound and laydown area of no more than 37,500 m 2 .

  Work No. 31—  Creation of the substation compound area including:     a
land re-profiling and creation of platform or foundations for Work No. 31A;
b     security fencing;         c     landscaping;         d     utilities
connections;         e     drainage works including connections to existing
drainage and creation of new sustainable drainage including attenuation
pond(s);         f     temporary and permanent access roads;         g
temporary construction areas, lay down areas and haul roads;         h
installation of up to two buried cable circuits within cable ducts (if
required);         i     installation of up to two buried 400kV cable circuits
within cable ducts (if required);         j     cable crossings, cable
protection, cable ducts, trenchless installation technique pit works including
the creation of entrance and exit pits and cable trenching works; and
k     creation of permanent ecological and environmental mitigation works
including habitat creation.

  Work No. 31A—  Within Work No. 31, construction of electrical substation
infrastructure including:     a     a compound for electrical works necessary
for the onward transmission of electricity (the “substation compound”)
containing (but not limited to) switchgear and electrical equipment including
power transformers, reactive compensation equipment, filters, cooling
equipment, control and welfare buildings, lightning rods, internal roads,
security fencing and other associated equipment, structures and buildings
including noise-attenuation works; and         b     permanent security
fencing and security gate.

  Work No. 32—  Installation of up to two buried 400kV cable circuits with
cable ducts (if required) between Work No. 31 and Work No. 36 from the
electrical substation to Glascoed Road; including:     a     cable ducts,
trenchless installation technique pit works including the creation of entrance
and exit pits and cable trenching works;         b     creation of
construction access, construction of a haul road;         c     temporary
construction working areas and laydown area;         d     creation and
improvement of accesses including works to junctions and visibility splays;
e     permanent landscaping, ecological and environmental works;         f
drainage works including connections to existing drainage and creation of new
sustainable drainage including attenuation pond(s); and         g
utilities connections area.

  Work No. 33—  An access, drainage and utilities works area comprising:     a
temporary construction working areas and laydown area;         b     temporary
access roads and haul road including temporary land re-profiling;         c
permanent access roads and visibility splays;         d     permanent
landscaping, ecological and environmental works;         e     drainage works
including connections to existing drainage and creation of new sustainable
drainage including attenuation pond(s); and         f     utilities
connections.

  Work No. 34—  Creation of new temporary and permanent visibility splays and
improvement of existing visibility splays.

  Work No. 35—  Permanent landscaping, ecological and environmental works,
drainage works including connections to existing drainage and creation of new
sustainable drainage including attenuation pond(s), and utilities connections.

  Work No. 36—  Installation of up to two buried 400kV cable circuits with
cable ducts (if required) between Work No. 32 and Work No. 40 from Glascoed
Road to the National Grid substation approximately 912 m; including cable
ducts, trenchless installation technique pit works including the creation of
entrance and exit pits and cable trenching works; construction of a haul road,
temporary construction working areas and laydown area, creation and
improvement of accesses including works to junctions and visibility splays.

  Work No. 37 —     a     creation of construction access, construction of a
haul road and temporary construction working areas; and         b     creation
and improvement of accesses to public highway including works to junctions,
creation of a new bellmouth junction and visibility splays.

  Work No. 37A—  Within Work No. 37, creation of a temporary construction
compound and laydown area of no more than10,000 m 2  to the south of Glascoed
Road.

  Work No. 38 — Creation of construction access, creation and improvement of
visibility splays, works to highway verges to improve existing visibility
splays.

  Work No. 39 —     a     creation of construction access, construction of a
haul road, temporary construction working areas and laydown area and creation
and improvement of accesses to public highway including works to junctions and
visibility splays; and         b     creation of permanent access, including
works to connect the access to Glascoed Road.

  Work No. 39A — Within Work No. 39, creation of a temporary construction
compound and laydown area of no more than 10,000 m 2 .

  Work No. 40 — Electrical works to connect to the National Grid substation—
a     works needed to connect the authorised project to the National Grid
substation at Bodelwyddan that National Grid is not required, under its
transmission licence, to carry out itself including (but not limited to)
cabling, cable sealing ends, circuit breakers, surge arrestors, dis-
connectors, transformers, busbars and busbar clamp measuring equipment, relay
marshalling rooms and electrical earthing works;         b     installation of
up to two buried 400kV cable circuits with cable ducts (if required) between
Work No. 36 and the National Grid substation; including cable ducts,
trenchless installation technique pit works including the creation of entrance
and exit pits and cable trenching works;         c     construction of a haul
road, temporary construction compound and laydown area; and         d
creation of access roads to provide operational and maintenance access.

  Work No. 41—  Access roads to provide operational access from the public
highways to Work Nos. 4 to 40 and any associated development.

  and in connection with Work Nos. 1 to 3A and to the extent that they do not
otherwise form part of any such work, further associated development
comprising such other works as may be necessary or expedient for the purposes
of or in connection with the relevant part of the authorised development and
which fall within the scope of the work assessed by the environmental
statement, including—     a     scour protection around the foundations of the
offshore structures;         b     cable protection measures such as rock
placement and the placement of rock and/or concrete mattresses, with or
without frond devices;         c     dredging;         d     the removal of
material from the seabed required for the construction of Work Nos. 1 to 3 and
the disposal of inert material of natural origin and/or dredged material
within the Order limits produced during construction drilling, and seabed
preparation for the installation of the foundations of the offshore structures
or during seabed preparation for cable laying;         e     creation and use
of temporary vessel laydown areas, use of cable anchors;         f     removal
of static fishing equipment;         g     lighting; and         h
erection of temporary cofferdams during construction.

  and in connection with Work Nos. 4 to 41 and to the extent that they do not
otherwise form part of any such work, further associated development
comprising such other works as may be necessary or expedient for the purposes
of or in connection with the relevant part of the authorised development and
which fall within the scope of the work assessed by the environmental
statement, including—     i     haul roads, ramps, watercourse and other
temporary crossings, means of access and other vehicular and/or pedestrian
means of access, including creation of new tracks and footpaths, and/or
widening, upgrades, alterations and improvements of existing roads, tracks and
footpaths;         j     bunds, embankments, swales, landscaping, fencing and
boundary treatments and alteration of groynes;         k     provision of
temporary and permanent ecological and environmental mitigation and
compensation works;         l     spoil storage and associated control
measures;         m     jointing bays, link boxes, cable ducts, cable
protection, joint protection, manholes, marker posts, underground cable
markers, tiles and tape, and lighting and other works associated with laying
cables and/or pulling cables through cable ducts;         n     works for the
provision of apparatus including cabling, water and electricity supply works,
foul drainage provision, surface water management systems, temporary drainage
during installations of cables and culverting;         o     works to alter
the position of apparatus, including mains, sewers, drains and cables;
p     works to alter the course of, or otherwise interfere with, non-navigable
rivers, streams or watercourses;         q     landscaping works and habitat
creation;         r     works for the benefit or protection of land affected
by the authorised development;         s     working sites in connection with
the construction of the authorised development, construction lay down areas
and compounds and storage compounds;         t     works of restoration;
u     fencing or other means of enclosure; and         v     such other works
as may be necessary or expedient for the purposes of or in connection with the
relevant part of the authorised development.

##### Ancillary works


  Works within the Order limits which fall within the scope of the work
assessed by the environmental statement comprising—     a     intrusive ground
investigations including the making of boreholes and trial pits;         b
temporary landing places, moorings or other means of accommodating vessels in
the construction and/ or maintenance of the authorised development;         c
marking buoys, beacons, fenders and other navigational warning or ship impact
protection works; and         d     temporary works for the benefit or
protection of land, watercourses or structures affected by the authorised
development.

  Requirements

Article 2

##### Time limits


1

The authorised development must commence no later than the expiration of five
years beginning with the date this Order comes into force.

##### Offshore design parameters


2

2.1

The wind turbine generators to be constructed or operated as part of the
authorised development must be located within the area delineated by the co-
ordinates in Table 2 and shown on sheet 2 of the works plan and, subject to
any lighting approved under requirement 3, there must be no material
difference in the size and appearance of the wind turbine generators.

  Table 2       Point Latitude Longitude   IC 53° 25′ 18.124″ N 3° 44′ 45.726″
W ID 53° 25′ 57.263″ N 3° 47′ 53.732″ W IE 53° 26′ 42.823″ N 3° 51′ 33.278″ W
IF 53° 29′ 16.893″ N 3° 51′ 37.376″ W IG 53° 29′ 26.671″ N 3° 36′ 37.688″ W IH
53° 29′ 7.091″ N 3° 37′ 36.682″ W II 53° 28′ 41.909″ N 3° 38′ 47.993″ W IJ 53°
28′ 31.364″ N 3° 39′ 17.852″ W IK 53° 28′ 5.013″ N 3° 40′ 32.272″ W IL 53° 27′
1.865″ N 3° 41′ 31.636″ W IM 53° 26′ 45.454″ N 3° 41′ 14.509″ W

2.2

The offshore works must be constructed in accordance with the parameters
assessed in the environmental statement and set out in Table 3.

  Table 3       Parameter Value   Maximum number of wind turbine generators 50
Maximum total rotor swept area (m  2 ) 2,500,412 Maximum height of wind
turbine generators when measured from MHWS to the tip of the vertical blade
(m) 332 Maximum rotor diameter of each wind turbine generator (m) 306 Minimum
distance from MHWS to the lowest point of the rotating blade for each wind
turbine generator (m) 22 Minimum distance between wind turbine generators (in
all directions measured from the centre point of each wind turbine generator)
(m) 830 Maximum pile diameter of single pile structures (m) 15 Maximum pile
diameter of two or more pile structures (m) 8 Maximum total seabed footprint
for wind turbine generators (excluding scour protection) (m 2 ) 98,175 Maximum
total seabed footprint for wind turbine generators (including scour
protection) (m 2 ) 570,209 Maximum width of any supporting structure (m) at
mean sea level 15 Maximum number of offshore substations 2     Maximum
dimensions of offshore substations:       Height when measured from MHWS (m)
Length (m)       Topside area (m 2 )         77.3       80       4,000
Maximum total seabed footprint area for offshore substation foundations
(excluding scour protection) (m 2 ) 14,000 Maximum total seabed footprint area
for offshore substation foundations (including scour protection) (m 2 ) 21,600
Maximum volume of natural material for disposal (m  3 ) 12,920,356 Maximum
total volume of scour protection for wind turbine generators and offshore
substations (m 3 ) 952,282 Maximum number of meteorological masts 1 Maximum
total seabed footprint area for meteorological mast foundations (excluding
scour protection) (m 2 ) 20 Maximum total seabed footprint area for
meteorological mast foundations (including scour protection) (m 2 ) 855
Maximum width of any supporting structure for meteorological mast (m) 5
Maximum number of any LiDAR measurement buoys 3 Maximum number of any
permanent vessel buoys 3 Maximum total length of cables (km) 203.4 Maximum
volume of cable protection (m  3 ) 366,513 Maximum footprint of cable
protection (m²) 474,476 Maximum number of cable crossings 19

##### Aviation safety


3

3.1

The undertaker must exhibit such lights, with such shape, colour and character
and at such times as are required by Air Navigation Order 2016 and/or
determined necessary for aviation safety in consultation with the Defence
Infrastructure Organisation Safeguarding and as directed by the Civil Aviation
Authority. Lighting installed specifically to meet Ministry of Defence
aviation safety requirements must remain operational for the life of the
authorised development unless otherwise agreed with the Ministry of Defence.

3.2

The undertaker must notify the Defence Infrastructure Organisation
Safeguarding, at least 14 days prior to the commencement of the offshore
works, of the following—

3.2.a

the date of the commencement of construction of the offshore works;

3.2.b

the date any wind turbine generators are brought into use;

3.2.c

the maximum height of any construction equipment to be used;

3.2.d

the maximum heights of any wind turbine generator, meteorological mast and
offshore electrical platform to be constructed; and

3.2.e

the latitude and longitude of each wind turbine generator, meteorological mast
and offshore electrical platform to be constructed; and

the Defence Infrastructure Organisation Safeguarding must be notified of any
changes to the information supplied under this paragraph and of the completion
of the construction of the offshore works.

3.3

The lights installed in accordance with paragraph (1) will be operated at the
lowest permissible lighting intensity level.

##### Offshore Noise


4

Except in an emergency, the noise generated during the construction of Work
No. 1 when measured at as close as practicable to the receptor OS Grid
Reference 279980; 381977 must not, in onshore wind weather conditions, exceed
50 dB(A) Leq 1 hour between the hours of 2300 and 0700 when measured in
accordance with British Standard BS5228:2009+A1:2014, ‘Code of practice for
noise and vibration control on construction and open sites’. Onshore wind
weather conditions are when the receptor is downwind of the piling location by
plus or minus 45 degrees.

##### Stages of authorised development


5

5.1

The onshore works may not be commenced until notification has been submitted
to the relevant planning authority detailing whether the onshore works will be
constructed—

5.1.a

in a single stage; or

5.1.b

in two or more stages.

5.2

The onshore works may not be commenced until details of the stages of the
onshore works have been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning
authority.

5.3

The construction of the onshore works must follow the details provided under
sub-paragraph (2) of this requirement.

##### Substation works


6

6.1

Construction of Work No. 31A must not commence until details of—

6.1.a

the layout;

6.1.b

scale;

6.1.c

proposed finished ground levels;

6.1.d

hard surfacing materials;

6.1.e

the dimensions, colour and materials used for the buildings;

6.1.f

security fencing;

6.1.g

vehicular and pedestrian access, parking and circulation areas; and

6.1.h

proposed and existing functional services above and below ground, including
drainage, power and communications cables and pipelines, manholes and
supports;

have been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority
following consultation with Natural Resources Wales as appropriate.

6.2

The details submitted under sub-paragraph (1) of this requirement must be in
accordance with requirement 7 (detailed design parameters onshore) and
substantially in accordance with the design principles document.

6.3

Work No. 31A must be carried out in accordance with the approved details.

##### Detailed design parameters onshore


7

7.1

The onshore works must not exceed the parameters assessed in the environmental
statement and set out in Table 4 and sub-paragraph  (2) .

  Table 4       Parameter Value   Maximum number of landfall transition joint
bays 2 Maximum number of connection bays within Work No. 40 2

7.2

In relation to Work No. 31A—

7.2.a

if air insulated switchgear is installed—

7.2.a.i

the highest part of any reactive compensation building must not exceed 41.675m
above Ordnance Datum and the highest part of any other building must not
exceed 40.675m above Ordnance Datum;

7.2.a.ii

the highest part of any external electrical equipment or enclosure, excluding
lightning rods, must not exceed 46.675m above Ordnance Datum;

7.2.a.iii

the total area of the fenced compound (excluding its accesses) must not exceed
50,000m 2 ;

7.2.a.iv

the total number of lightning rods within the fenced compound area must not
exceed 12 and the height of any lightning rod must not exceed 52.2m above
Ordnance Datum;

7.2.b

if gas insulated switchgear is installed—

7.2.b.i

the highest part of the main gas insulated switchgear substation building must
not exceed 49.975m above Ordnance Datum;

7.2.b.ii

the highest part of any reactive compensation building must not exceed 42.475m
above Ordnance Datum and subject to sub-paragraph (i) the highest part of any
other building must not exceed 41.475m above Ordnance Datum;

7.2.b.iii

the highest part of any external electrical equipment or enclosure, excluding
lightning rods, must not exceed 47.475m above Ordnance Datum;

7.2.b.iv

the total area of the fenced compound (excluding its accesses) must not exceed
30,000m 2 ; and

7.2.b.v

the total number of lightning rods within the fenced compound area must not
exceed 12 and the height of any lightning rod must not exceed 53m above
Ordnance Datum.

7.3

Trenchless installation techniques must be used to install the cable ducts and
electrical circuits where identified in the crossings schedule for the purpose
of passing under a relevant obstruction unless otherwise agreed by the
relevant planning authority, following consultation with the relevant drainage
boards, Natural Resources Wales and the highways authority.

7.4

In this requirement “ reactive compensation building ” means any building
housing electrical compensation equipment for Work No 31A.

##### Provision of landscaping


8

8.1

Work No. 31A must not be commenced until a written landscaping scheme and
associated work programme in accordance with the outline landscape and ecology
management plan for Work No. 31A has been submitted to and approved by the
relevant planning authority following consultation with Natural Resources
Wales as appropriate.

8.2

The written landscaping scheme must include details of all proposed hard and
soft landscaping works including—

8.2.a

location, number, species, size and planting density of any proposed planting
including any trees; and

8.2.b

implementation timetables for all landscaping works.

8.3

The written landscaping scheme and associated work programme must be carried
out in accordance with the approved details.

##### Implementation and maintenance of landscaping


9

9.1

All landscaping works must be carried out in accordance with the landscaping
scheme approved under requirement 8 (provision of landscaping).

9.2

Any tree or shrub planted as part of an approved landscaping scheme that,
within a period of five years after planting, is removed, dies or becomes, in
the opinion of the relevant planning authority, seriously damaged or diseased
must be replaced in the first available planting season with a specimen of the
same species and size as that originally planted unless a different species is
otherwise agreed with the relevant planning authority.

##### Code of construction practice


10

10.1

No stage of the onshore works may commence until for that stage a code of
construction practice has been submitted to and approved by the relevant
planning authority in consultation with the highway authority as appropriate
following consultation with Natural Resources Wales as appropriate and in
relation to sub-paragraph (2)(d) the Welsh Ministers.

10.2

The code of construction practice must accord with the outline code of
construction practice and include, as appropriate to the relevant stage—

10.2.a

construction method statement;

10.2.b

noise and vibration management plan;

10.2.c

air quality management plan;

10.2.d

soil management plan;

10.2.e

site waste management plan;

10.2.f

pollution prevention and emergency incident response plan;

10.2.g

construction traffic management plan;

10.2.h

public access management plan;

10.2.i

travel plan;

10.2.j

artificial light emissions plan;

10.2.k

invasive non-native species management plan; and

10.2.l

construction communications plan.

10.3

The code of construction practice approved in relation to the relevant stage
of the onshore works must be followed in relation to that stage of the onshore
works.

10.4

Pre-commencement works must only take place in accordance with the relevant
details set out in the outline code of construction practice as certified.

##### Highway accesses


11

11.1

No new permanent means of access to a highway to be used by vehicular traffic,
or any permanent alteration to an existing means of access to a highway used
by vehicular traffic may be formed until written details of the design, layout
and siting of that new or altered access have been submitted to and approved
by the relevant planning authority in consultation with the highway authority.

11.2

The highway accesses must be constructed in accordance with the approved
details.

##### Onshore archaeology


12

12.1

No stage of the onshore works may commence until for that stage an
archaeological written scheme of investigation in accordance with the onshore
WSI as appropriate for the relevant stage has been submitted to and approved
by the relevant planning authority.

12.2

The onshore works must be carried out in accordance with the approved details.

12.3

Pre-commencement surveys and investigations, including those necessary to
allow production of any scheme required under sub-paragraph (1) must only take
place in accordance with the applicable details set out in the onshore WSI.

##### Landscape and Ecology management plan


13

13.1

No stage of the onshore works may commence until for that stage a written
landscape and ecology management plan in accordance with the outline landscape
and ecology management plan as appropriate for the relevant stage, has,
following consultation with Natural Resources Wales, been submitted to and
approved by the relevant planning authority.

13.2

The landscape and ecology management plan(s) submitted under sub-paragraph (1)
must include an implementation timetable and must be implemented as approved.

13.3

Pre-commencement works must only take place in accordance with the relevant
details set out in the outline landscape and ecology management plan as
certified.

##### European protected species onshore


14

14.1

No stage of the onshore works other than surveying and investigation necessary
to comply with this requirement may be undertaken until, for that stage, pre-
construction survey work has been carried out to establish whether a European
protected species or nationally protected species under the Wildlife and
Countryside Act 1981 is present on any of the land affected, or likely to be
affected, by any part of that stage of the onshore works.

14.2

Where a European protected species or nationally protected species under the
Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 is shown to be present, the stage of the
onshore works likely to affect the species must not commence until, after
consultation with Natural Resources Wales, a scheme of protection and
mitigation measures for that stage has been submitted to and approved by the
relevant planning authority.

14.3

Each stage of the onshore works which requires a scheme of protection and
mitigation measures in accordance with sub-paragraph (2) of this requirement
must be carried out in accordance with the approved scheme.

14.4

In this paragraph, “ European protected species ” has the same meaning as in
regulations 42 (European protected species of animals) and 46 (European
protected species of plants) of the Conservation of Habitats and Species
Regulations 2017.

14.5

In this paragraph, “ nationally protected species ” means any species
protected under the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981.

##### Construction hours


15

15.1

Except as otherwise agreed in the code of construction practice and subject to
sub-paragraphs (2) to (4), construction of the onshore works and construction-
related traffic movements to or from the site of the relevant work may take
place only between the hours of 0700 and 1900 from Monday to Friday and 0700
and 1300 on Saturdays, with no activity on Sundays or bank holidays.

15.2

If agreed in advance with the relevant planning authority, construction of the
onshore works and construction-related traffic movements to or from the site
of the relevant work may take place outside the hours specified in sub-
paragraph (1) for certain identified works including—

15.2.a

where continuous periods of construction are required, for works such as
concrete pouring and finishing, electrical circuit pulling and jointing and
testing;

15.2.b

for the delivery and unloading of abnormal loads;

15.2.c

for the landfall works; and

15.2.d

for any other time-critical element of the onshore works.

15.3

Except as provided in sub-paragraph (4), all construction works which are to
be undertaken outside the hours specified in sub-paragraph (1) must be agreed
in advance with the relevant planning authority.

15.4

In respect of trenchless installation techniques where continuous 24-hour
working has been assessed in the environmental statement, the undertaker must
notify the relevant planning authority in advance of such works.

##### Surface and foul water drainage


16

16.1

Work Nos. 31 and 31A must not commence until, for that numbered work, a
written surface and foul water drainage plan (including details of any
watercourse crossings and proposals for management and maintenance) has,
following consultation with Natural Resources Wales, been submitted to and
approved by the relevant planning authority. The surface and foul water
drainage plan must be substantially in accordance with the principles set out
in the outline drainage strategy.

16.2

The surface and foul water drainage plan must be implemented in accordance
with the approved details, prior to final commissioning of Work No. 31A.

##### Restoration of land used temporarily for construction


17

Any land landward of MLWS which is used temporarily for construction of the
onshore works and not ultimately incorporated in permanent works or approved
landscaping must be reinstated within six months of completion of the relevant
stage of the onshore works in accordance with details submitted to and
approved by the relevant planning authority under requirement 10 (code of
construction practice).

##### Control of noise during operational stage


18

18.1

The noise rating level for the operation of Work No. 31A must not exceed the
following levels at a position representative of the façade, in free-field
conditions, of, any building authorised or lawfully occupied for residential
or accommodation purposes at the date of the granting of this Order, at each
of the representative locations set out in (a) to (d) below:

18.1.a

36 dB LAr,Tr at Gwelfryn (OS: 300654, 373889) or other nearby residential
properties on Glascoed Road to the south west of Work No. 31A;

18.1.b

36 dB LAr,Tr at Caer Delyn (OS 301339, 373960) or other nearby residential
properties on Glascoed Road to the south east of Work No. 31A;

18.1.c

39 dB LAr,Tr at Bodelwyddan Castle Hotel (OS 299967, 374819) or other nearby
residential properties to the west of Work No. 31A; and

18.1.d

41 dB LAr,Tr at Faenol Bropor (OS 301298, 374784) or other nearby residential
properties to the north of Work No. 31A.

18.2

The noise levels set out in sub-paragraph (1) are to be measured:

18.2.a

in accordance with British Standard BS4142:2014+A1:2019, Methods for rating
and assessing industrial and commercial sound; and

18.2.b

with a microphone placed at least 1.5 m above the ground in free-field
conditions (being at least 3.5 m from the nearest vertical reflecting
surface).

18.3

In the event of a complaint to the relevant planning authority relating to
noise emissions from the operation of Work No. 31A which may reasonably be
expected to result in levels above those allowed by paragraph (1)—

18.3.a

the undertaker must submit a proposed measurement and assessment procedure,
based on the guidance and assessment methodology outlined in BS4142:2014,
including a proposed measurement methodology and monitoring locations and the
timings for the assessment and reporting to the relevant planning authority
for approval; and

18.3.b

measurements must be undertaken in accordance with the approved procedure by
an independent consultant appointed by the undertaker in order to determine
compliance or otherwise with paragraph (1).

##### Control of operational artificial light emissions


19

19.1

Work No. 31A and Work No. 33(c) must not be brought into operation until a
written scheme for the management and mitigation of internal and external
artificial light emissions from Work No. 31A and Work No.33(c) has been
submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority.

19.2

The approved scheme for the management and mitigation of artificial light
emissions must be implemented and maintained during the lifetime of Work No.
31A and Work No. 33(c).

##### Skills and Employment Strategy


20

20.1

No stage of the authorised development may commence until a skills and
employment strategy, substantially in accordance with the outline skills and
employment strategy has been submitted to and approved by the relevant
planning authority.

20.2

The skills and employment strategy must be implemented in accordance with the
approved details.

##### Offshore decommissioning


21

No offshore works may commence until a written decommissioning programme in
compliance with any notice served upon the undertaker by the Secretary of
State pursuant to section 105(2) (requirement to prepare decommissioning
programmes) of the 2004 Act has been submitted to the Secretary of State for
approval.

##### Onshore decommissioning


22

22.1

A written scheme of decommissioning for the onshore works must be submitted to
and approved by the relevant planning authority at least six months prior to
any decommissioning works commencing.

22.2

The written scheme of decommissioning for the onshore works must include a
code of construction practice and the approved scheme must be implemented as
approved in the carrying out of any decommissioning works or relevant part of
it.

##### Great Dun Fell and St Annes Primary Radar Mitigation Scheme


23

23.1

No part of any wind turbine generator (excluding foundations) shall be erected
as part of the authorised development until a primary radar mitigation scheme
agreed in advance with the operator has been submitted to and approved in
writing by the Secretary of State in order to mitigate the impact of the
authorised development on the primary radar of the operator located at Great
Dun Fell and St Annes and associated air traffic management operations.

23.2

No part of any wind turbine generator (excluding foundations) shall be erected
until the approved primary radar mitigation scheme has been implemented and
the authorised development shall thereafter be operated fully in accordance
with the approved scheme.

23.3

In this requirement—

      “ operator ” means NATS (En Route) plc, incorporated under the Companies
Act (Company Number 4129273) whose registered office is 4000 Parkway,
Whiteley, Fareham, Hampshire PO15 7FL or such other organisation licensed from
time to time under sections 5 and 6 of the Transport Act 2000 to provide air
traffic services to the relevant managed area (within the meaning of section
40 of the Transport Act); and           “primary radar mitigation scheme” or “
scheme ” means a detailed scheme agreed with the operator which sets out the
measures to be taken to mitigate the impact of the development on the primary
radar located at Great Dun Fell and St Annes and air traffic management
operations of the operator.

##### Landscape enhancement scheme


24

24.1

Work No. 1 must not be commenced until a scheme for the provision of landscape
enhancement in accordance with the landscape enhancement scheme principles
document has been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority
following consultation with Natural Resources Wales, the Isle of Anglesey
County Council, Eryri National Park Authority and Conwy County Borough
Council.

24.2

  The landscape enhancement scheme must set out appropriate measures   to
compensate for the impact of the authorised development on the protected
landscapes of Eryri National Park, the Isle of Anglesey Area of Outstanding
Natural Beauty (including Anglesey Heritage Coast) and Great Orme Heritage
Coast.

24.3

The landscape enhancement scheme shall be implemented as approved.

24.4

In this requirement “ landscape enhancement scheme principles document ” means
the document certified as such by the Secretary of State under article 40.

##### Wake effects


25

25.1

No part of any wind turbine generator shall be erected as part of the
authorised development until an assessment of any wake effects and subsequent
design provisions to mitigate any such identified effects as far as possible
has been submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of State, in
order to mitigate the impact of the authorised development on the energy
generation of Rhyl Flats Wind Farm. The assessment must be based on the scope
of this Order as granted.

25.2

The authorised development shall be carried out in accordance with the
approved details.

##### Requirement for written approval


26

Where under any of the above requirements the approval or agreement of the
Secretary of State, the relevant planning authority or another person is
required, that approval or agreement must be given in writing.

##### Amendments to approved details


27

27.1

With respect to any requirement which requires the authorised development to
be carried out in accordance with the details approved by the relevant
planning authority or another organisation or body, the approved details must
be carried out as approved unless an amendment or variation is previously
agreed by the relevant planning authority or that other organisation or body
in accordance with sub-paragraph (2).

27.2

Any amendments to or variations from the approved details must be in
accordance with the principles and assessments set out in the environmental
statement. Such agreement may only be given in relation to immaterial changes
where it has been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the relevant planning
authority or that other organisation or body that the subject matter of the
agreement sought is unlikely to give rise to any materially greater
environmental effects from those assessed in the environmental statement.

27.3

The approved details must be taken to include any amendments that may
subsequently be approved by the relevant planning authority or that other
person.

  Streets subject to street works

Article 9

  In the County of Denbighshire:             (1)       Street         (2)
Extent as shown on the street works and access plan       Ferguson Avenue,
Rhyl Between the points labelled AA and AB on sheet 2 Garford Road, Rhyl
Between the points labelled AC and AD on sheet 1 Rhyl Golf Club access Between
the points labelled AE and AF on sheet 1 Robin Hood Holiday Camp accesses
Between the points labelled AG and AH on sheets 1 and 2 B5119, Dyserth Road
Between the points labelled AI and AJ on sheet 3 B5119, Dyserth Road Between
the points labelled AK and AL on sheet 3 A525 Between the points labelled AM
and AN on sheet 5 A547, eastern Rhuddlan bypass Between the points labelled AO
and AP on sheet 5 Tan-Yr-Eglwys Road Between the points labelled AQ and AR on
sheet 6 A547, Abergele Road Between the points labelled AS and AT on sheet 6
Bodelwyddan Road Between the points labelled AU and AV on sheet 7 Nant-Y-
Faenol Road Between the points labelled AW and AX on sheet 7 Junction 26 of
the A55 Between the points labelled AY and AZ on sheet 9 Junction 26 of the
A55 Between the points labelled BA and BB on sheet 9 Minor road to the north
of St. Asaph Business Park Between the points labelled BC and BD on sheet 9
B5381 Glascoed Road Between the points labelled BE and BF on sheet 10 Minor
road to the south of the B5381 Glascoed Road Between the points labelled BG
and BH on sheet 10 B5381 Glascoed Road Between the points labelled BI and BJ
on sheet 10

  Rights of way to be temporarily stopped up or restricted

Article 11

  In the County of Denbighshire:             (1)       Street or right of way
to be temporarily stopped up or restricted         (2)       Extent of
temporary stopping up or restriction       Footpath DE/206/5 Between points Ax
and Ay as shown on sheets 3 and 4 of the temporary stopping up of public
rights of way plan Footpath DE/206/3 Between points Bx and By as shown on
sheet 4 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan Footpath
DE/206/44 Between points Ca and Cb and Cx and Cy as shown on sheet 5 of the
temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan Footpath DE/206/18 Between
points Dx, Dy and Dz as shown on sheet 5 of the temporary stopping up of
public rights of way plan Footpath DE/206/46 Between points Ex and Ey as shown
on sheet 5 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan Footpath
DE/206/20 Between points Fa and Fb and Fx and Fy as shown on sheet 5 of the
temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan Footpath DE/206/23 Between
points Gx and Gy as shown on sheet 5 of the temporary stopping up of public
rights of way plan Footpath DE/206/24 and Footpath 206/22 Between points Hx
and Hy as shown on sheet 5 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of
way plan Footpath DE/206/29 Between points Ix and Iy as shown on sheet 6 of
the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan Footpath DE/201/12
Between points Jx and Jy as shown on sheet 6 of the temporary stopping up of
public rights of way plan Footpath DE/206/40 Between points Kx and Ky as shown
on sheet 7 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan Footpath
DE/201/4 Between points Lx and Ly as shown on sheet 7 of the temporary
stopping up of public rights of way plan Footpath DE/201/7 Between points Mx
and My (sheet 8) and Nx and Ny (sheets 8 and 9) as shown on the temporary
stopping up of public rights of way plan Footpath DE/201/9 Between points Ox
and Oy as shown on sheet 9 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of
way plan Footpath DE/105/7 Between points Px and Py as shown on sheet 10 of
the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan

  Access to works

Article 13

  In the County of Denbighshire             (1)       Reference as shown on
the street works and access plan         (2)       Description of new access
AC-A From the public highway Ferguson Avenue for access to temporary works
during construction, and operational access as shown on sheet 2 of the street
works and access plan AC-B1 Over and from the Rhyl Golf Club access to
temporary works area during construction; no heavy goods vehicle access is to
be taken over this access as shown on sheet 1 of the street works and access
plan AC-B2 From the public highway Garford Road for access to temporary works
during construction and operational access as shown on sheet 1 of the street
works and access plan AC-C1 Over and from the existing Robin Hood Holiday Camp
access to temporary works area during construction; no heavy goods vehicle
access is to be taken over this access as shown on sheets 1 and 2 of the
street works and access plan AC-C2 Over and from the existing Robin Hood
Holiday Camp access to temporary works area during construction; no heavy
goods vehicle access is to be taken over this access as shown on sheets 1 and
2 of the street works and access plan AC-C3 Over and from the existing Robin
Hood Holiday Camp access to temporary works area during construction; no heavy
goods vehicle access is to be taken over this access as shown on sheets 1 and
2 of the street works and access plan AC-D From the public highway B5119
Dyserth Road and the existing access track for access to temporary works
during construction, and operational access as shown on sheet 3 of the street
works and access plan AC-E From the public highway B5119 Dyserth Road to
temporary works area to the north of that highway during construction as shown
on sheet 3 of the street works and access plan AC-F From the public highway
B5119 Dyserth Road to temporary works area to the south of that highway during
construction as shown on sheet 3 of the street works and access plan AC-G From
the public highway A547, eastern Rhuddlan bypass, for access to temporary
works during construction and operational access as shown on sheet 5 of the
street works and access plan AC-H From the public highway A525 to temporary
works area during construction as shown on sheet 5 of the street works and
access plan AC-I Over and from the existing access to the sewage treatment
works at Tan-Yr-Eglwys Road for access to temporary works during construction
and operational access as shown on sheet 6 of the street works and access plan
AC-J From the public highway A547 Abergele Road to temporary works area during
construction as shown on sheet 6 of the street works and access plan AC-K From
the public highway A547 Abergele Road to temporary works area during
construction as shown on sheets 6 and 7 of the street works and access plan
AC-L From the public highway Bodelwyddan Road to temporary works area during
construction as shown on sheet 7 of the street works and access plan AC-M From
the public highway Bodelwyddan Road to temporary works area during
construction as shown on sheet 7 of the street works and access plan AC-N1
From the public highway Nant-Y-Faenol Road to temporary works area during
construction as shown on sheet 7 of the street works and access plan AC-N2
From the public highway Nant-Y-Faenol Road to temporary works area during
construction as shown on sheet 7 of the street works and access plan AC-O1
Over and from the existing farm access from Junction 26 of the A55 public
highway for access to temporary works during construction, and operational
access as shown on sheets 8 and 9 of the street works and access plan AC-O2
Over and from the existing farm access from Junction 26 of the A55 public
highway to temporary works area during construction as shown on sheets 8 and 9
of the street works and access plan AC-P Over and from the minor road to the
north of St. Asaph Business Park as shown on sheet 9 of the street works and
access plan AC-Q1 From the public highway B5381 Glascoed Road to temporary
works area during construction as shown on sheets 9 and 10 of the street works
and access plan AC-Q2 From the public highway B5381 Glascoed Road to temporary
works area during construction as shown on sheets 9 and 10 of the street works
and access plan AC-R1 From the minor road to the south of B5381 Glascoed Road
to temporary works area during construction as shown on sheet 10 of the street
works and access plan AC-R2 From the minor road to the south of B5381 Glascoed
Road to temporary works area during construction as shown on sheet 10 of the
street works and access plan AC-S From the public highway B5381 Glascoed Road,
over and from the existing National Grid access, for access to temporary works
during construction, and operational access as shown on sheet 10 of the street
works and access plan

  Land of which only temporary possession may be taken

Article 27

  In the County of Denbighshire:             (1)       Number of plot shown on
land plans         (2)       Purpose for which temporary possession may be
taken         (3)       Relevant part of authorised development       2
Temporary use as a construction working area, use for cable installation
vessel anchoring and for access to facilitate construction of Work Nos. 2A, 3
and 4 Work No. 3A 3, 4, 5, 24, 27 Temporary use as a construction working
area, use for cable installation vessel anchoring and for access to facilitate
construction of Work Nos. 2A, 3 and 4 Work Nos. 3A and 6 37, 38, 39, 40, 43,
44, 45, 46 Temporary use as a construction working area, use for cable
installation vessel anchoring and for access to facilitate construction of
Work Nos. 2A, 3, 4, 5 and 41 Work Nos. 3A and 7 7, 9, 10, 13, 15, 16, 17, 18,
19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25, 88 Temporary use as a construction working area and
for access to facilitate construction of Work Nos. 2A, 3, 4, 5, 7 and 41 Work
No. 6 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 98 Temporary use as a construction working area and
for access to facilitate construction of Work Nos. 5 and 7 Work No. 6 15
Temporary use as a construction working area, use as a temporary construction
compound and for access to facilitate construction of Work Nos. 2A, 3, 4, 5, 7
and 41 Work Nos. 6 and 6A 47, 49, 50, 52, 54, 57, 59, 60, 62, 64, 65, 67, 68,
69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74 , 79, 80, 81, 84, 85, 86 Temporary use as a
construction working area and for access to facilitate construction of Work
Nos. 2A, 3, 4, 5, 7 and 41 Work No. 7 and temporary mitigation area 75
Temporary use as a construction working area, use as a temporary construction
compound and for access to facilitate construction of Work Nos. 2A, 3, 4, 5, 7
and 41 Work Nos. 7 and 7A 104, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 117, 121,
122, 123, 124, Temporary use as a construction working area and for access to
facilitate construction of Work Nos. 5, 8, 8A, 9 and 41 Work No. 8 119, 127,
130, 132, 133, 137, 138 Temporary use as a construction working area and for
access to facilitate construction of Work Nos. 9, 11 and 41 Work No. 10 120,
128 Temporary use as a construction working area, use as a temporary
construction compound and for access to facilitate construction of Work Nos.
9, 11 and 41 Work No. 10A 159, 161 Temporary use as a construction working
area and for access to facilitate construction of Work No. 11 Work No. 12 170,
171, 172, 173, 176, 181, 182 Temporary use as a construction working area and
for access to facilitate construction of Work No. 11 and temporary mitigation
area Work No. 13 and temporary mitigation area 195, 197, 205 Temporary use as
a construction working area, use as a temporary construction compound and for
access to facilitate construction of Work Nos. 11, 15 and 41 and temporary
mitigation area Work Nos. 14, 14A and temporary mitigation area 210, 211, 212,
215, 218, 219 Temporary use as a construction working area and for access to
facilitate construction of Work Nos. 11, 15 and 41 and temporary mitigation
area Work No. 14 and temporary mitigation area 221, 237 Temporary use as a
construction working area, use as a temporary construction compound and for
access to facilitate construction of Work Nos. 11, 15 and 41 Work Nos. 16 and
16A 223, 224, 227, 228, 229, 230, 231, 232, 234 Temporary use as a
construction working area and for access to facilitate construction of Work
Nos. 11, 15 and 41 Work No. 16 248, 249, 251, Temporary use as a construction
working area and for access to facilitate construction of Work Nos. 15, 18 and
41 Work No. 17 270, 271, 273, 274 Temporary use as a construction working area
for drainage during construction of Work No. 19 Associated development (f) for
Work No. 19 276, 277, 279, 282 Temporary use as a construction working area,
use as a temporary construction compound and for access to facilitate
construction of Work Nos. 19, 21 and 41 Work Nos. 20 and 20A 283, 284, 289,
290 Temporary use as a construction working area and for access to facilitate
construction of Work Nos. 19, 21 and 41 Work No. 20 303 Temporary use as a
construction working area for drainage during construction of Work No. 21
Associated development (f) for Work No. 21 307, 308, 313 Temporary use as a
construction working area, use as a temporary construction compound and for
access to facilitate construction of Work Nos. 21, 23 and 41 Work Nos. 22 and
22A 310, 311, 312, 314, 315, 323, 324, 325, 326, 327, 328, 329 Temporary use
as a construction working area and for access to facilitate construction of
Work Nos. 21, 23 and 41 Work No. 22 357 Temporary use as a construction
working area for drainage during construction of Work No. 23 Associated
development (f) for Work No. 23 330, 331, 332, 333, 334, 338, 339, 340, 341,
343, 345 Temporary use to improve visibility splays and for access to
facilitate construction of Work Nos. 23 and 41 Work No. 24 348, 350, 351, 352
Temporary use a construction working area and for access to facilitate
construction of Work No. 23 Work No. 25 369, 370, 375 Temporary use as a
construction working area, use as a temporary construction compound and for
access to facilitate construction of Work Nos. 23 and 41, and temporary
mitigation area Work Nos. 26, 26A and temporary mitigation area 404, 405, 406,
411, 414 Temporary use as a construction working area and for access to
facilitate construction of Work Nos. 23 and 41, and temporary mitigation area
Work No. 27 and temporary mitigation area 424, 433, 434 Temporary use as a
construction working area, use as a temporary construction compound and for
access to facilitate construction of Work Nos. 33, 34, 36 and 41, and
temporary mitigation area Work Nos. 37, 37A and temporary mitigation area 441,
442, 443, 449, 450, 451, 452, 454, 455 Temporary use to improve visibility
splays and for access to facilitate construction of Work Nos. 36 and 41, and
temporary mitigation area Work No. 38 and temporary mitigation area 463, 464
Temporary use as a construction working area, use as a temporary construction
compound, improvement of existing accesses and for access to facilitate
construction of Work Nos. 36, 40 and 41, and temporary mitigation area Work
Nos. 39, 39A and temporary mitigation area 474, 475. 476, 477, 493, 494, 495,
498, 499 Temporary use as a construction working area, improvement of existing
accesses and for access to facilitate construction of Work Nos. 36, 40 and 41,
and temporary mitigation area Work No. 39 and temporary mitigation area

  Land in which only new rights etc. may be acquired

Article 20

  In the County of Denbighshire:             (1)       Number of plot shown on
land plans         (2)       Purpose for which rights may be acquired
1, 28, 29, 30, 31,       32, 33, 34, 35, 87, 97, 101, 103, 105, 118, 139, 140,
157, 162, 184, 187, 190, 194, 242, 247, 250, 257, 258, 259, 261, 269, 272,
275, 285, 293, 294, 297, 309, 316, 317, 318, 319, 335, 347, 349, 353, 359,
365, 374, 401, 403, 413, 435, 437, 438, 453, 462, 465, 466, 471         Cable
rights and restrictive covenants       1     Cable rights       Rights for the
purposes of the construction, installation, operation, maintenance and
decommissioning of the authorised development to—     a     lay down, install,
retain, adjust, alter, construct, operate, erect, use, maintain, repair,
renew, upgrade, inspect, remove and replace the electricity cables (including
the removal of materials including spoil) in, under, over and/or on the Land,
together with such telemetry and fibre-optic lines, ducting, jointing bays and
other apparatus, protection measures, cable marker posts, chambers and
manholes, manhole covers and other equipment which is ancillary to the
purposes of transmitting electricity along such electricity cables (all
collectively referred to as the “ cables ”), and in doing so, to use or resort
to trenchless installation techniques including (but not limited to)
directional drilling beneath sea defences, watercourses, roads and railways;
b     enter, be on, and break open and break up the surface of the Land and
remain with or without plant, vehicles, machinery, apparatus and equipment
which is ancillary to the purposes of transmitting electricity along the
cables;         c     to benefit from continuous vertical and lateral support
for the authorised development;         d     pass and re-pass with or without
vehicles, plant, machinery, apparatus, equipment and materials for the
purposes of laying down, installing, adjusting, altering, constructing, using,
maintaining, repairing, renewing, inspecting, removing and replacing the
cables;         e     construct and install and thereafter use the Land for
all necessary purposes for the commissioning, construction, repair, testing
and maintenance of the cables in, on or under the Land;         f     place
and use plant, machinery, structures and temporary structures within the Land
for the purposes of the installation, construction, maintenance, repairing,
renewing, upgrading, inspecting, removal and replacing of the cables and to
erect temporary signage and provide measures for the benefit of public and
personnel safety;         g     erect fencing, gates, walls, barriers or other
means of enclosure, and create secure working areas and compounds including
trenchless installation technique compounds and working areas;         h
construct, lay down, use and remove temporary access roads including any
necessary hard standing and other surface materials including (but not limited
to) matting, aggregate, trackway, stone, tarmacadam, terram, temporary
bridging, culverting or diversion of water courses and drains during any
period during which construction, maintenance, repair or renewal is being
carried out;         i     effect access to the highway;         j     make
such investigations in or on the Land as required;         k     fell, lop or
cut, coppice wood, uproot trees or hedges or shrubs which now or hereafter may
be standing on the Land or other land which would if not felled, lopped, cut
or removed would obstruct or interfere with the operation of the cables;
l     remove and discharge water from the Land, and to install, retain, use,
maintain, inspect, alter, remove, refurbish, reconstruct, replace, protect and
improve sewers, drains, pipes, ducts, mains, conduits, flues and to drain into
and manage waterflows in any drains, watercourses and culverts, install, use,
inspect, maintain, adjust, alter, renew, repair, test or cleanse drainage
schemes on the Land or reinstate the any existing drainage scheme on the Land;
m     install, alter, re-lay, maintain, protect, adjust or remove pipes,
cables or conduits or apparatus including but not limited to electricity
poles, electricity pylons, electricity masts, overhead electricity lines,
telecommunications cables and any ancillary equipment and apparatus public and
private drains, watercourses, sewers, ponds or culverts, service media
(including the pipes, cables or conduits or apparatus of statutory
undertakers);         n     remove fences and structures within the Land
during any period during which construction, maintenance, repair or renewal is
being carried out (subject to erection of any temporary stock-proof fencing as
is reasonably required and the re-instatement or suitable replacement of the
fences or structures following the exercise of the rights);         o
store and stockpile materials (including excavated material);         p
create boreholes and trial excavation pits for the purposes of intrusively
surveying the land and monitoring the use of any trenchless installation
technique, to keep in place and monitor the same through construction,
maintenance repair, replacement or decommissioning and to reinstate the Land;
q     to excavate materials below ground level, including soils, and to store
and re-use or dispose of the same, and in so excavating to undertake any
works, including works of protection or removal of archaeological remains as
may be required by any written scheme of investigation approved under this
Order;         r     lay out temporary paths and bridleways for public use;
s     to install, execute, implement, retain, repair, improve, renew,
relocate, maintain and carry out mitigation, maintenance, remediation works
for environmental or ecological mitigation or enhancement works, including
temporary works for noise alleviation measures and the installation of
temporary barriers for the protection of fauna;         t     carry out such
works (together with associated fencing) required by a planning permission
and/or consent now or to be granted over the Land and/or in accordance with
any necessary licences relating to protected species and/or wildlife; and
u     (in an emergency only when the cables are temporarily unusable) to lay
down, install, use, maintain and inspect underground cables, telephone
signalling and fibre-optic cables and ancillary equipment, associated works
and other conducting media together with conduits or pipes for containing the
same in and under the Land.             2     Restrictive covenants       A
restrictive covenant over the Land for the benefit of the remainder of the
Order land to—     a     prevent anything to be done in or upon the Land or
any part thereof for the purpose of the erection of any buildings or
construction erection or works of any kind (including the foundations or
footings thereto);         b     prevent anything to be done by way of hard
surfacing of the Land with concrete of any kind or with any other material or
surface whatsoever without the consent in writing of the undertaker (such
consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed if the proposed surfacing
would not cause damage to relevant part of the authorised development nor make
it materially more difficult or expensive to maintain the authorised
development);         c     to prevent anything to be done by way of
excavation of any kind in the Land nor any activities which would alter,
increase or decrease ground cover or soil levels in any manner whatsoever
without the consent in writing of the undertaker save as are reasonably
required for agricultural activities (being ploughing to no deeper than 0.6m
for the purposes of arable farming) or are required to be carried out by
National Grid in order to exercise their statutory functions or rights in
relation to their apparatus (if any) within the Land;         d     to prevent
the planting or growing within the Land of any trees, shrubs or underwood
without the consent in writing of the undertaker (such consent not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed provided that the proposed trees, shrubs or
underwood would not cause damage to the relevant part of the authorised
development nor make it materially more difficult or expensive to access the
relevant part of the authorised development);         e     to prevent
anything being done which may interfere with free flow and passage of
electricity or telecommunications through the cables or support for the
authorised development;         f     to prevent carrying out operations or
actions (including but not limited to blasting and piling) which may obstruct,
interrupt, or interfere with the exercise of the rights or damage the
authorised development; and         g     to prevent any activity which would
in the reasonable opinion of the undertaker result in the disturbance of
ecological mitigation areas or areas of habitat creation including any
ploughing or grazing without the prior written consent of the undertaker.
100     Cable rights, transition joint bay rights and restrictive covenants
3     Cable rights       Rights for the purposes of the construction,
installation, operation, maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised
development to—     a     lay down, install, retain, adjust, alter, construct,
operate, erect, use, maintain, repair, renew, upgrade, inspect, remove and
replace the electricity cables (including the removal of materials including
spoil) in, under, over and/or on the Land, together with such telemetry and
fibre-optic lines, ducting, jointing bays and other apparatus, protection
measures, cable marker posts, chambers and manholes, manhole covers and other
equipment which is ancillary to the purposes of transmitting electricity along
such electricity cables (all collectively referred to as the “ cables ”), and
in doing so, to use or resort to trenchless installation techniques including
(but not limited to) directional drilling beneath sea defences, watercourses,
roads and railways;         b     enter, be on, and break open and break up
the surface of the Land and remain with or without plant, vehicles, machinery,
apparatus and equipment which is ancillary to the purposes of transmitting
electricity along the cables;         c     to benefit from continuous
vertical and lateral support for the authorised development;         d
pass and re-pass with or without vehicles, plant, machinery, apparatus,
equipment and materials for the purposes of laying down, installing,
adjusting, altering, constructing, using, maintaining, repairing, renewing,
inspecting, removing and replacing the cables;         e     construct and
install and thereafter use the Land for all necessary purposes for the
commissioning, construction, repair, testing and maintenance of the cables in,
on or under the Land;         f     place and use plant, machinery, structures
and temporary structures within the Land for the purposes of the installation,
construction, maintenance, repairing, renewing, upgrading, inspecting, removal
and replacing of the cables and to erect temporary signage and provide
measures for the benefit of public and personnel safety;         g     erect
fencing, gates, walls, barriers or other means of enclosure, and create secure
working areas and compounds including trenchless installation technique
compounds and working areas;         h     construct, lay down, use and remove
temporary access roads including any necessary hard standing and other surface
materials including (but not limited to) matting, aggregate, trackway, stone,
tarmacadam, terram, temporary bridging, culverting or diversion of water
courses and drains during any period during which construction, maintenance,
repair or renewal is being carried out;         i     effect access to the
highway;         j     make such investigations in or on the Land as required;
k     fell, lop or cut, coppice wood, uproot trees or hedges or shrubs which
now or hereafter may be standing on the Land or other land which would if not
felled, lopped, cut or removed would obstruct or interfere with the operation
of the cables;         l     remove and discharge water from the Land, and to
install, retain, use, maintain, inspect, alter, remove, refurbish,
reconstruct, replace, protect and improve sewers, drains, pipes, ducts, mains,
conduits, flues and to drain into and manage waterflows in any drains,
watercourses and culverts, install, use, inspect, maintain, adjust, alter,
renew, repair, test or cleanse drainage schemes on the Land or reinstate the
any existing drainage scheme on the Land;         m     install, alter, re-
lay, maintain, protect, adjust or remove pipes, cables or conduits or
apparatus including but not limited to electricity poles, electricity pylons,
electricity masts, overhead electricity lines, telecommunications cables and
any ancillary equipment and apparatus public and private drains, watercourses,
sewers, ponds or culverts, service media (including the pipes, cables or
conduits or apparatus of statutory undertakers);         n     remove fences
and structures within the Land during any period during which construction,
maintenance, repair or renewal is being carried out (subject to erection of
any temporary stock-proof fencing as is reasonably required and the re-
instatement or suitable replacement of the fences or structures following the
exercise of the rights);         o     store and stockpile materials
(including excavated material);         p     create boreholes and trial
excavation pits for the purposes of intrusively surveying the land and
monitoring the use of any trenchless installation technique, to keep in place
and monitor the same through construction, maintenance repair, replacement or
decommissioning and to reinstate the Land;         q     to excavate materials
below ground level, including soils, and to store and re-use or dispose of the
same, and in so excavating to undertake any works, including works of
protection or removal of archaeological remains as may be required by any
written scheme of investigation approved under this Order;         r     lay
out temporary paths and bridleways for public use;         s     to install,
execute, implement, retain, repair, improve, renew, relocate, maintain and
carry out mitigation, maintenance, remediation works for environmental or
ecological mitigation or enhancement works, including temporary works for
noise alleviation measures and the installation of temporary barriers for the
protection of fauna;         t     carry out such works (together with
associated fencing) required by a planning permission and/or consent now or to
be granted over the Land and/or in accordance with any necessary licences
relating to protected species and/or wildlife; and         u     (in an
emergency only when the cables are temporarily unusable) to lay down, install,
use, maintain and inspect underground cables, telephone signalling and fibre-
optic cables and ancillary equipment, associated works and other conducting
media together with conduits or pipes for containing the same in and under the
Land.             4     Transition joint bay rights       Rights for the
purposes of the construction, installation, operation, maintenance and
decommissioning of the authorised development to—     a     lay down, install,
adjust, alter, construct, create, use, maintain, repair, renew, upgrade,
inspect, remove and replace transition joint bays; and         b     to
adjust, alter, remove, replace, and create tunnels under sea defences
including walls and groynes.             5     Restrictive covenants       A
restrictive covenant over the Land for the benefit of the remainder of the
Order land to—     a     prevent anything to be done in or upon the Land or
any part thereof for the purpose of the erection of any buildings or
construction erection or works of any kind (including the foundations or
footings thereto);         b     prevent anything to be done by way of hard
surfacing of the Land with concrete of any kind or with any other material or
surface whatsoever without the consent in writing of the undertaker (such
consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed if the proposed surfacing
would not cause damage to relevant part of the authorised development nor make
it materially more difficult or expensive to maintain the authorised
development);         c     to prevent anything to be done by way of
excavation of any kind in the Land nor any activities which would alter,
increase or decrease ground cover or soil levels in any manner whatsoever
without the consent in writing of the undertaker save as are reasonably
required for agricultural activities (being ploughing to no deeper than 0.6m
for the purposes of arable farming) or are required to be carried out by
National Grid in order to exercise their statutory functions or rights in
relation to their apparatus (if any) within the Land;         d     to prevent
the planting or growing within the Land of any trees, shrubs or underwood
without the consent in writing of the undertaker (such consent not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed provided that the proposed trees, shrubs or
underwood would not cause damage to the relevant part of the authorised
development nor make it materially more difficult or expensive to access the
relevant part of the authorised development);         e     to prevent
anything being done which may interfere with free flow and passage of
electricity or telecommunications through the cables or support for the
authorised development;         f     to prevent carrying out operations or
actions (including but not limited to blasting and piling) which may obstruct,
interrupt, or interfere with the exercise of the rights or damage the
authorised development; and         g     to prevent any activity which would
in the reasonable opinion of the undertaker result in the disturbance of
ecological mitigation areas or areas of habitat creation including any
ploughing or grazing without the prior written consent of the undertaker.
89, 90, 91, 99, 131, 147, 216, 217, 260, 291, 320, 321, 322, 342, 381, 382,
383, 384, 385,       386, 387, 388,       389, 390, 391,       392, 393, 394,
395, 396, 397,       398, 399, 400, 402, 425, 444         Cable rights and
restrictive covenants under existing infrastructure       6     Cable rights
Rights for the purposes of the construction, installation, operation,
maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised development to—     a
lay down, install, retain, adjust, alter, construct, operate, erect, use,
maintain, repair, renew, upgrade, inspect, remove and replace the electricity
cables (including the removal of materials including spoil) in, under, over
and/or on the Land, together with such telemetry and fibre-optic lines,
ducting, jointing bays and other apparatus, protection measures, cable marker
posts, chambers and manholes, manhole covers and other equipment which is
ancillary to the purposes of transmitting electricity along such electricity
cables (all collectively referred to as the “ cables ”), and in doing so, to
use or resort to trenchless installation techniques including (but not limited
to) directional drilling beneath sea defences, watercourses, roads and
railways;         b     enter, be on, and break open and break up the surface
of the Land and remain with or without plant, vehicles, machinery, apparatus
and equipment which is ancillary to the purposes of transmitting electricity
along the cables;         c     to benefit from continuous vertical and
lateral support for the authorised development;         d     pass and re-pass
with or without vehicles, plant, machinery, apparatus, equipment and materials
for the purposes of laying down, installing, adjusting, altering,
constructing, using, maintaining, repairing, renewing, inspecting, removing
and replacing the cables;         e     construct and install and thereafter
use the Land for all necessary purposes for the commissioning, construction,
repair, testing and maintenance of the cables in, on or under the Land;
f     place and use plant, machinery, structures and temporary structures
within the Land for the purposes of the installation, construction,
maintenance, repairing, renewing, upgrading, inspecting, removal and replacing
of the cables and to erect temporary signage and provide measures for the
benefit of public and personnel safety;         g     erect fencing, gates,
walls, barriers or other means of enclosure, and create secure working areas
and compounds including trenchless installation technique compounds and
working areas;         h     construct, lay down, use and remove temporary
access roads including any necessary hard standing and other surface materials
including (but not limited to) matting, aggregate, trackway, stone,
tarmacadam, terram, temporary bridging, culverting or diversion of water
courses and drains during any period during which construction, maintenance,
repair or renewal is being carried out;         i     effect access to the
highway;         j     make such investigations in or on the Land as required;
k     fell, lop or cut, coppice wood, uproot trees or hedges or shrubs which
now or hereafter may be standing on the Land or other land which would if not
felled, lopped, cut or removed would obstruct or interfere with the operation
of the cables;         l     remove and discharge water from the Land, and to
install, retain, use, maintain, inspect, alter, remove, refurbish,
reconstruct, replace, protect and improve sewers, drains, pipes, ducts, mains,
conduits, flues and to drain into and manage waterflows in any drains,
watercourses and culverts, install, use, inspect, maintain, adjust, alter,
renew, repair, test or cleanse drainage schemes on the Land or reinstate the
any existing drainage scheme on the Land;         m     install, alter, re-
lay, maintain, protect, adjust or remove pipes, cables or conduits or
apparatus including but not limited to electricity poles, electricity pylons,
electricity masts, overhead electricity lines, telecommunications cables and
any ancillary equipment and apparatus public and private drains, watercourses,
sewers, ponds or culverts, service media (including the pipes, cables or
conduits or apparatus of statutory undertakers);         n     remove fences
and structures within the Land during any period during which construction,
maintenance, repair or renewal is being carried out (subject to erection of
any temporary stock-proof fencing as is reasonably required and the re-
instatement or suitable replacement of the fences or structures following the
exercise of the rights);         o     store and stockpile materials
(including excavated material);         p     create boreholes and trial
excavation pits for the purposes of intrusively surveying the land and
monitoring the use of any trenchless installation technique, to keep in place
and monitor the same through construction, maintenance repair, replacement or
decommissioning and to reinstate the Land;         q     to excavate materials
below ground level, including soils, and to store and re-use or dispose of the
same, and in so excavating to undertake any works, including works of
protection or removal of archaeological remains as may be required by any
written scheme of investigation approved under this Order;         r     lay
out temporary paths and bridleways for public use;         s     to install,
execute, implement, retain, repair, improve, renew, relocate, maintain and
carry out mitigation, maintenance, remediation works for environmental or
ecological mitigation or enhancement works, including temporary works for
noise alleviation measures and the installation of temporary barriers for the
protection of fauna;         t     carry out such works (together with
associated fencing) required by a planning permission and/or consent now or to
be granted over the Land and/or in accordance with any necessary licences
relating to protected species and/or wildlife; and         u     (in an
emergency only when the cables are temporarily unusable) to lay down, install,
use, maintain and inspect underground cables, telephone signalling and fibre-
optic cables and ancillary equipment, associated works and other conducting
media together with conduits or pipes for containing the same in and under the
Land.             7     Restrictive covenants       A restrictive covenant
over the Land for the benefit of the remainder of the Order land to:     a
prevent anything to be done in or upon the Land or any part thereof for the
purpose of the erection of any buildings or construction, erection or works of
any kind (including the foundations or footings thereto) other than those
related to works for the benefit of existing highway or railway
infrastructure;         b     to prevent anything to be done by way of
excavation of any kind in the Land nor any activities which would alter,
increase or decrease ground cover or soil levels by greater than 1 metre
whatsoever without the consent in writing of the undertaker, save where such
works are reasonably required for the exercise of statutory functions or
rights in relation any public highway or railway on the Land and will not
damage, undermine or interfere with the cables;         c     to prevent the
planting or growing within the Land of any trees, shrubs or underwood without
the consent in writing of the undertaker (such consent not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed provided that the proposed trees, shrubs or underwood
would not cause damage to the relevant part of the authorised development nor
make it materially more difficult or expensive to access the relevant part of
the authorised development);         d     to prevent anything being done
which may interfere with free flow and passage of electricity or
telecommunications through the cables or support for the authorised
development; and         e     to prevent carrying out operations or actions
(including but not limited to blasting and piling) which may obstruct,
interrupt, or interfere with the exercise of the rights or damage the
authorised development.               6, 8, 11, 12, 14,       36, 41, 42, 48,
51, 53, 55, 56, 58, 61, 63, 66, 76, 77, 78, 82, 83, 102, 106,       114, 115,
116,       125, 126, 129,       134, 135, 136,       142, 152, 153, 154, 155,
169       174, 175, 178, 179, 180, 183,       196, 213, 214,       220, 222,
225,       226, 233, 235,       236, 238, 239,       240, 241, 243,       244,
245, 246,       252, 253, 254,       255, 256, 262,       263, 264, 265,
266, 267, 268,       278, 280, 281,       286, 287, 288,       292, 295, 296,
298, 299, 300,       301, 302, 304,       305, 306, 336,       337, 344, 346,
354, 355, 356,       358, 366, 367,       368, 371, 372,       373, 377, 379,
380, 407, 412,       429, 436, 439,       440, 461, 467,       468, 469, 470,
Access rights       Rights for the purposes of the construction, installation,
operation, maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised development to—
pass and re-pass with or without vehicles, plant, machinery, apparatus,
equipment and materials for the purposes of the Works, the inspection,
testing, maintenance, renewal, upgrading, replacement and removal of the
cables and connection into any adjacent cables and associated works, to take
plant and equipment on to adjoining land and make such investigations in or on
the Land which is ancillary for the purposes of exercise of the rights;
to construct, use, maintain and improve a permanent means of access including
visibility splays, and retain, maintain, straighten, widen, repair, alter,
upgrade and use existing access routes for the purposes of accessing the Land,
adjoining land and highway;           construct, lay down, use and remove
temporary access roads including any necessary hard standing and other surface
materials including (but not limited to) matting, aggregate, trackway, stone,
tarmacadam, terram, temporary bridging, culverting or diversion of water
courses and drains during any period during which construction, maintenance,
repair, renewal or decommissioning is being carried out;           erect
temporary bridges and supporting or protective structures for the purposes of
access to adjoining land;           place and use plant, machinery, structures
and temporary structures within the Land, and to erect temporary signage and
provide measures for the benefit of public and personnel safety;
fell, lop, cut, coppice wood, uproot trees or hedges or shrubs which now or
hereafter may be present on the Land for the purpose of enabling the right to
pass and re-pass to adjoining land;           repair, improve, renew, remove,
relocate and plant trees, woodland, shrubs, hedgerows, seeding and other
ecological measures together with the right to maintain, inspect and replant
such trees, shrubs and landscaping;           erect and remove temporary
fencing, gates, walls, barriers or other means of enclosure; and           lay
out temporary paths and bridleways for public use as temporary diversions for
public rights of way which are interfered with during any period in which
construction, maintenance, repair or renewal decommissioning is being carried
out.             418, 419, 420,       421, 422, 423,       426, 427, 428,
430, 431, 432         Visibility splay and highway verge rights and
restrictive covenants       8     Visibility splay and highway verge rights
Rights for the purposes of the construction, installation, operation,
maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised development to—     a
pass and re-pass with or without vehicles, plant, machinery, apparatus,
equipment and materials for the purposes of the Works, and make such
investigations in or on the Land which is ancillary for the purposes of
exercise of the rights;         b     to construct, use, maintain and improve
visibility splays, and retain, maintain, straighten, widen, repair, alter,
upgrade and use existing access routes and visibility splays for the purposes
of accessing the Land, adjoining land and highway; and         c     fell,
lop, cut, coppice wood, uproot trees or hedges or shrubs which now or
hereafter may be present on the Land for the purpose of maintaining visibility
required for accesses.             9     Restrictive covenants       A
restrictive covenant over the Land for the benefit of the remainder of the
Order land to prevent anything to be done in or upon the Land or any part
thereof for the purpose of the erection of any buildings or construction,
erection or works of any kind (including the foundations or footings thereto)
which would interfere with use as a visibility splay, other than works
undertaken by the highway authority.           145, 150, 160,       164, 168,
192,       409, 459         Mitigation work areas access rights, mitigation
rights and restrictive covenants       10     Permanent access rights
Rights for the purposes of the construction, installation, operation,
maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised development to—     a
pass and re-pass with or without vehicles, plant, machinery, apparatus,
equipment and materials for the purposes of the Works, the inspection,
testing, maintenance, renewal, upgrading, replacement and removal of the
cables and connection into any adjacent cables and associated works, to take
plant and equipment on to adjoining land and make such investigations in or on
the Land which is ancillary for the purposes of exercise of the rights;
b     to construct, use, maintain and improve a permanent means of access
including visibility splays, and retain, maintain, straighten, widen, repair,
alter, upgrade and use existing access routes for the purposes of accessing
the Land, adjoining land and highway;         c     construct, lay down, use
and remove temporary access roads including any necessary hard standing and
other surface materials including (but not limited to) matting, aggregate,
trackway, stone, tarmacadam, terram, temporary bridging, culverting or
diversion of water courses and drains during any period during which
construction, maintenance, repair, renewal or decommissioning is being carried
out;         d     erect temporary bridges and supporting or protective
structures for the purposes of access to adjoining land;         e     place
and use plant, machinery, structures and temporary structures within the Land,
and to erect temporary signage and provide measures for the benefit of public
and personnel safety;         f     fell, lop, cut, coppice wood, uproot trees
or hedges or shrubs which now or hereafter may be present on the Land for the
purpose of enabling the right to pass and re-pass to adjoining land;         g
repair, improve, renew, remove, relocate and plant trees, woodland, shrubs,
hedgerows, seeding and other ecological measures together with the right to
maintain, inspect and replant such trees, shrubs and landscaping;         h
erect and remove temporary fencing, gates, walls, barriers or other means of
enclosure; and         i     lay out temporary paths and bridleways for public
use as temporary diversions for public rights of way which are interfered with
during any period in which construction, maintenance, repair or renewal
decommissioning is being carried out.             11     Temporary mitigation
area works rights       Rights for the purposes of the construction,
installation, operation, maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised
development to—     a     install, execute, implement, retain, repair,
improve, renew, remove, relocate and plant trees, woodland, shrubs, hedgerows,
seeding and other ecological measures together with the right to maintain,
inspect and replant such trees, shrubs and landscaping;         b     install,
execute, implement, retain, repair, improve, renew, relocate, maintain and
carry out mitigation, maintenance, remediation works for environmental or
ecological mitigation or enhancement works, including temporary works and the
installation of temporary barriers for the protection of fauna; and         c
carry out such works (together with associated fencing) required by a planning
permission and/or consent now or to be granted over the Land in accordance
with any necessary licences relating to protected species and/or wildlife.
12     Restrictive covenants       A restrictive covenant over the Land for
the benefit of the remainder of the Order land to prevent any activity which
would in the reasonable opinion of the undertaker result in the disturbance of
ecological mitigation areas or areas of habitat creation including any
ploughing or grazing, during the period within which the undertaker is bound
by any consent to maintain that ecological mitigation areas or areas of
habitat creation, without the prior written consent of the undertaker.
415     Drainage rights and restrictive covenants       13     Drainage rights
Rights for the purposes of the construction, installation, operation,
maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised development to—     a
remove and discharge water from the Land and to install, retain, use,
maintain, inspect, alter, remove, refurbish, reconstruct, replace, protect and
improve sewers, drains, pipes, ducts, mains, conduits, flues and to drain into
and manage waterflows in any drains, watercourses and culverts, to lay down,
install, adjust, alter, construct, create, use, maintain, repair, renew,
upgrade, inspect, remove and replace a drainage scheme on the Land (the
“drainage works”);         b     inspect, use mechanical excavation (including
directional drilling and/or digging), reinstate, remove, move or alter such
part or parts of any drainage system on the Land for the purposes of the
drainage works (including connecting the drainage works to any land drain as
at the date of the drainage works);         c     enter, be on, and break up
the surface of the Land and remain with or without plant, vehicles, machinery,
apparatus and equipment which is ancillary to the purposes of the drainage
works;         d     store and stockpile materials (including excavated
material);         e     create boreholes and trail excavation pits for the
purposes of intrusively surveying the land and monitoring the use of any
trenchless installation technique, to keep in place and monitor the same
through construction, maintenance repair, replacement or decommissioning and
to reinstate the Land;         f     to excavate materials below ground level,
including soils, and to store and re-use or dispose of the same, and in so
excavating, to undertake any works, including works of protection or removal
of archaeological remains as may be required by any written scheme of
investigation approved under this Order;         g     pass and re-pass with
or without vehicles, plant, machinery, apparatus, equipment and materials for
the purposes of the drainage works;         h     place and use plant,
machinery, structures and temporary structures within the Land, and to erect
temporary signage and provide measures for the benefit of public and personnel
safety for the purposes of the drainage works;         i     erect fencing,
gates, walls, barriers or other means of enclosure, and create secure works
areas or compounds including temporary trenchless installation technique
compounds and working areas for the purposes of the drainage works;         j
construct, lay down, use and remove temporary access roads including any
necessary hard standing and other surface materials including (but not limited
to) matting, aggregate, trackway, stone, tarmacadam, terram, temporary
bridging, culverting or diversion of water courses and drains during any
period during which construction, maintenance, repair or renewal of any
drainage work is being carried out;         k     effect access to the
highway;         l     make such investigations in or on the Land as required
for the purposes of the drainage works;         m     use or resort to
trenchless installation techniques including (but not limited to) directional
drilling in connection with the drainage works;         n     fell, lop or
cut, coppice wood, uproot trees or hedges or shrubs which now or hereafter may
be standing on the Land or other land which would if not felled, lopped, cut
or removed obstruct or interfere with the drainage works;         o
install, alter, re-lay, maintain, protect, adjust or remove pipes, cables or
conduits or apparatus including but not limited to electricity poles,
electricity pylons, electricity masts, overhead electricity lines,
telecommunications cables and any ancillary equipment and apparatus public and
private drains, watercourses, sewers, ponds or culverts, service media
(including the pipes, cables or conduits or apparatus of statutory
undertakers);         p     to install, execute, implement, retain, repair,
improve, renew, relocate, maintain and carry out mitigation, maintenance,
remediation works for environmental or ecological mitigation or enhancement
works, including temporary works for noise alleviation measures and the
installation of temporary barriers for the protection of fauna; and         q
to carry out such works (together with associated fencing) required by a
planning permission and/or consent now or to be granted over the Land in
accordance with any necessary licences relating to protected species and/or
wildlife.             14     Restrictive covenants       A restrictive
covenant over the Land for the benefit of the remainder of the Order land to—
a     prevent anything to be done in or upon the Land or any part thereof for
the purpose of the erection of any buildings or construction erection or works
of any kind (including the foundations or footings thereto); and         b
prevent anything to be done by way of hard surfacing of the Land with concrete
of any kind or with any other material or surface whatsoever without the
consent in writing of the undertaker (such consent not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed if the proposed surfacing would not cause damage to
relevant part of the authorised development nor make it materially more
difficult or expensive to maintain the authorised development).
141, 143, 144,       146, 148, 149,       151, 156, 158,       163, 165, 166,
167, 177, 185,       186, 188, 189,       191, 193, 198,       199, 200, 201,
202, 203, 204,       206, 207, 208,       209, 360, 361,       362, 363, 364,
376, 378, 408,       410, 445, 446,       447, 448, 456,       457, 458, 460
Temporary mitigation area works rights and restrictive covenants       15
Temporary mitigation area works rights       Rights for the purposes of the
construction, installation, operation, maintenance and decommissioning of the
authorised development to—     a     install, execute, implement, retain,
repair, improve, renew, remove, relocate and plant trees, woodland, shrubs,
hedgerows, seeding and other ecological measures together with the right to
maintain, inspect and replant such trees, shrubs and landscaping;         b
install, execute, implement, retain, repair, improve, renew, relocate,
maintain and carry out mitigation, maintenance, remediation works for
environmental or ecological mitigation or enhancement works, including
temporary works and the installation of temporary barriers for the protection
of fauna; and         c     carry out such works (together with associated
fencing) required by a planning permission and/or consent now or to be granted
over the Land in accordance with any necessary licences relating to protected
species and/or wildlife.             16     Restrictive covenants       A
restrictive covenant over the Land for the benefit of the remainder of the
Order land to prevent any activity which would in the reasonable opinion of
the undertaker result in the disturbance of ecological mitigation areas or
areas of habitat creation including any ploughing or grazing, during the
period within which the undertaker is bound by any consent to maintain that
ecological mitigation areas or areas of habitat creation, without the prior
written consent of the undertaker.           472, 473, 478,       479, 480,
481,       482, 483, 484,       485, 486         National Grid substation
works area rights       Rights for the purposes of the construction,
installation, operation, maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised
development to—     a     lay down, install, retain, adjust, alter, construct,
operate, erect, use, maintain, repair, renew, upgrade, inspect, remove and
replace the electricity cables (including the removal of materials including
spoil) in, under, over and/or on the Land, together with such telemetry and
fibre-optic lines, ducting, jointing bays and other apparatus, protection
measures, cable marker posts, chambers and manholes, manhole covers and other
equipment which is ancillary to the purposes of transmitting electricity along
such electricity cables (all collectively referred to as the “ cables ”);
b     enter, be on, and break open and break up the surface of the Land and
remain with or without plant, vehicles, machinery, apparatus and equipment
which is ancillary to the purposes of transmitting electricity along the
cables;         c     to benefit from continuous vertical and lateral support
for the authorised development;         d     pass and re-pass with or without
vehicles, plant, machinery, apparatus, equipment and materials for the
purposes of laying down, installing, adjusting, altering, constructing, using,
maintaining, repairing, renewing, inspecting the authorised development and
for removing and replacing the cables;         e     to use, maintain, renew
improve and alter existing accesses, roads, streets, tracks or ways over the
Land, providing that such use is not exclusive and exercise of this right must
not prevent or unreasonably inhibit use by other parties;         f
construct, lay down, use and remove temporary access roads including any
necessary hard standing and other surface materials including (but not limited
to) matting, aggregate, trackway, stone, tarmacadam, terram, temporary
bridging, culverting or diversion of water courses and drains during any
period during which construction, maintenance, repair, renewal or
decommissioning is being carried out;         g     place and use plant,
machinery, structures and temporary structures within the Land, and to erect
temporary signage and provide measures for the benefit of public and personnel
safety;         h     fell, lop, cut, coppice wood, uproot trees or hedges or
shrubs which now or hereafter may be present on the Land for the purpose of
enabling the right to pass and re-pass to adjoining land; and         i
remove and discharge water from the Land and to install, retain, use,
maintain, inspect, alter, remove, refurbish, reconstruct, replace, protect and
improve sewers, drains, pipes, ducts, mains, conduits, flues and to drain into
and manage waterflows in any drains, watercourses and culverts, to lay down,
install, adjust, alter, construct, create, use, maintain, repair, renew,
upgrade, inspect, remove and replace a drainage scheme on the Land; and
j     install, alter, re-lay, maintain, protect, adjust or remove pipes,
cables or conduits or apparatus including but not limited to electricity
poles, electricity pylons, electricity masts, overhead electricity lines,
telecommunications cables and any ancillary equipment and apparatus public and
private drains, watercourses, sewers, ponds or culverts, service media
(including the pipes, cables or conduits or apparatus of statutory
undertakers).             487, 488, 489,       490, 491, 492,       496, 497
National Grid substation access area rights       Rights for the purposes of
the construction, installation, operation, maintenance and decommissioning of
the authorised development to—     k     pass and re-pass with or without
vehicles, plant, machinery, apparatus, equipment and materials for the
purposes of laying down, installing, adjusting, altering, constructing, using,
maintaining, repairing, renewing, inspecting the authorised development and
for removing and replacing the cables;         l     to use, maintain, renew
improve and alter existing accesses, roads, streets, tracks or ways over the
Land, providing that such use is not exclusive and exercise of this right must
not prevent or unreasonably inhibit use by other parties;         m
construct, lay down, use and remove temporary access roads including any
necessary hard standing and other surface materials including (but not limited
to) matting, aggregate, trackway, stone, tarmacadam, terram, temporary
bridging, culverting or diversion of water courses and drains during any
period during which construction, maintenance, repair, renewal or
decommissioning is being carried out;         n     place and use plant,
machinery, structures and temporary structures within the Land, and to erect
temporary signage and provide measures for the benefit of public and personnel
safety;         o     fell, lop, cut, coppice wood, uproot trees or hedges or
shrubs which now or hereafter may be present on the Land for the purpose of
enabling the right to pass and re-pass to adjoining land; and         p
remove and discharge water from the Land and to install, retain, use,
maintain, inspect, alter, remove, refurbish, reconstruct, replace, protect and
improve sewers, drains, pipes, ducts, mains, conduits, flues and to drain into
and manage waterflows in any drains, watercourses and culverts, to lay down,
install, adjust, alter, construct, create, use, maintain, repair, renew,
upgrade, inspect, remove and replace a drainage scheme on the Land; and
q     install, alter, re-lay, maintain, protect, adjust or remove pipes,
cables or conduits or apparatus including but not limited to electricity
poles, electricity pylons, electricity masts, overhead electricity lines,
telecommunications cables and any ancillary equipment and apparatus public and
private drains, watercourses, sewers, ponds or culverts, service media
(including the pipes, cables or conduits or apparatus of statutory
undertakers).

Modification of compensation and compulsory purchase enactments for creation
of new rights and imposition of restrictive covenants

Article 20

##### Compensation enactments


1

The enactments for the time being in force with respect to compensation for
the compulsory purchase of land apply, with the necessary modifications as
respects compensation, in the case of a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of a right by the creation of a new right or imposition of a restrictive
covenant as they apply as respects compensation for the compulsory purchase of
land and interests in land.

2

2.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the 1961 Act has effect
subject to the following modification—

2.2

For section 5A(5A) (relevant valuation date) of the 1961 Act substitute—

2.2.5A

If—

2.2.5A.a

the acquiring authority enters on land for the purposes of exercising a right
in pursuance of a notice of entry under section 11(1) of the Compulsory
Purchase Act 1965 (as modified by paragraph 8 of Schedule 8 to the Awel y Môr
Offshore Wind Farm Order 2023).

2.2.5A.b

the acquiring authority is subsequently required by a determination under
paragraph 12 of Schedule 2A to the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 (as
substituted by paragraph 11 of Schedule 8 to the Awel y Môr Offshore Wind Farm
Order 2023) to acquire an interest in the land; and

2.2.5A.c

the acquiring authority enters on and takes possession of that land,

the authority is deemed for the purposes of sub-section (3)(a) to have entered
on that land when it entered on that land for the purpose of exercising that
right.

3

3.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the Land Compensation Act 1973
has effect subject to the modifications set out in sub-paragraph (2).

3.2

In section 44(1) (compensation for injurious affection), as it applies to
compensation for injurious affection under section 7 (measure of compensation
in case of severance) of the 1965 Act as substituted by paragraph 6 of this
Schedule—

3.2.a

for “land is acquired or taken from” substitute  “a right or restrictive
covenant over land is purchased from or imposed on” ; and

3.2.b

for “acquired or taken from him” substitute “over which the right is
exercisable or the restrictive covenant enforceable.

##### Application of Part 1 of the 1965 Act


4

4.1

Part 1 (compulsory purchase under Acquisition of Land Act of 1946) of the 1965
Act, as applied by section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions) of the 2008 Act (and modified by article 25 (modification of Part
1 of the 1965 Act) to the acquisition of land under article 18 (compulsory
acquisition of land), applies to the compulsory acquisition of a right by the
creation of a new right, or to the imposition of a restrictive covenant under
article 20 (compulsory acquisition of rights)—

4.1.a

with the modifications specified in sub-paragraph 4(2); and

4.1.b

with such other modifications as may be necessary.

4.2

The modifications referred to in sub-paragraph (1) are set out in the
following provisions of this Schedule.

5

References in the 1965 Act to land are, in the appropriate contexts, to be
read (according to the requirements of the particular context) as referring
to, or as including references to—

5.a

the right acquired or to be acquired, or the restriction imposed or to be
imposed; or

5.b

the land over which the right is or is to be exercisable, or the restriction
is or is to be enforceable.

6

For section 7 (measure of compensation in case of severance) of the 1965 Act
substitute—

6.7

In assessing the compensation to be paid by the acquiring authority under this
Act, regard must be had not only to the extent (if any) to which the value of
the land over which the right is to be acquired or the restrictive covenant is
to be imposed is depreciated by the acquisition of the right or the imposition
of the covenant but also to the damage (if any) to be sustained by the owner
of the land by reason of its severance from other land of the owner, or
injuriously affecting that other land by the exercise of the powers conferred
by this or the special Act.

7

The following provisions of the 1965 Act (which state the effect of a deed
poll executed in various circumstances where there is no conveyance by persons
with interests in the land), that is to say—

7.a

section 9(4) (failure by owners to convey);

7.b

paragraph 10(3) of Schedule 1 (persons without power to sell their interests);

7.c

paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 2 (absent and untraced owners); and

7.d

paragraphs 2(3) and 7(2) of Schedule 4 (common land);

are modified so as to secure that, as against persons with interests in the
land which are expressed to be overridden by the deed, the right which is to
be compulsorily acquired or the restrictive covenant which is to be imposed is
vested absolutely in the acquiring authority.

8

Section 11 (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act is modified so as to secure that,
where the acquiring authority has served notice to treat in respect of any
right or restriction, as well as the notice of entry required by sub-section
(1) of that section (as it applies to a compulsory acquisition), it has power,
exercisable in equivalent circumstances and subject to equivalent conditions,
to enter for the purpose of exercising that right or enforcing that
restrictive covenant; and sections 11A  (powers of entry: further notices of
entry), 11B  (counter-notice requiring possession to be taken on specified
date), 12 (unauthorised entry) and 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring
authority) of the 1965 Act are modified correspondingly.

9

Section 20 (tenants at will, etc.) of the 1965 Act applies with the
modifications necessary to secure that persons with such interests in land as
are mentioned in that section are compensated in a manner corresponding to
that in which they would be compensated on a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of that land, but taking into account only the extent (if any) of such
interference with such an interest as is actually caused, or likely to be
caused, by the exercise of the right or the enforcement of the restrictive
covenant in question.

10

Section 22 (interests omitted from purchase) of the 1965 Act as modified by
article 25(4) is also modified so as to enable the acquiring authority in
circumstances corresponding to those referred to in that section, to continue
to be entitled to exercise the right acquired, subject to compliance with that
section as respects compensation.

11

For Schedule 2A of the 1965 Act substitute—

COUNTER-NOTICE REQUIRING PURCHASE OF LAND NOT IN NOTICE TO TREAT

Section 8

########## Introduction


11.1

11.1.1

This Schedule applies where an acquiring authority serves a notice to treat in
respect of a right over, or a restrictive covenant affecting, the whole or
part of a house, building or factory and has not executed a general vesting
declaration under section 4 (execution of declaration) of the 1981 Act as
applied by article 23 (application of the 1981 Act) of the Awel y Môr Offshore
Wind Farm Order 2023 in respect of the land to which the notice to treat
relates.

11.1.2

But see article 24 (acquisition of subsoil only) of the Awel y Môr Offshore
Wind Farm Order 2023 which excludes the acquisition of subsoil only from this
Schedule.

11.1.3

In this Schedule, “ house ” includes any park or garden belonging to a house.

########## Counter-notice requiring purchase of land


11.2

A person who is able to sell the house, building or factory (“ the owner ”)
may serve a counter-notice requiring the acquiring authority to purchase the
owner’s interest in the house, building or factory.

11.3

A counter-notice under paragraph 2 must be served within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the notice to treat was served.

########## Response to counter-notice


11.4

On receiving a counter-notice, the acquiring authority must decide whether to—

11.4.a

withdraw the notice to treat;

11.4.b

accept the counter-notice; or

11.4.c

refer the counter-notice to the Upper Tribunal.

11.5

The authority must serve notice of their decision on the owner within the
period of 3 months beginning with the day on which the counter-notice is
served (“the decision period”).

11.6

If the authority decides to refer the counter-notice to the Upper Tribunal
they must do so within the decision period.

11.7

If the authority does not serve notice of a decision within the decision
period it is to be treated as if it had served notice of a decision to
withdraw the notice to treat at the end of that period.

11.8

If the authority serves notice of a decision to accept the counter-notice, the
compulsory purchase order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if
they included the owner’s interest in the house, building or factory.

########## Determination by the Upper Tribunal


11.9

On a referral under paragraph 6, the Upper Tribunal must determine whether the
acquisition of the right or the imposition of the restrictive covenant would—

11.9.a

in the case of a house, building or factory, cause material detriment to the
house, building or factory; or

11.9.b

in the case of a park or garden, seriously affect the amenity or convenience
of the house to which the park or garden belongs.

11.10

In making the determination, the Upper Tribunal must take into account—

11.10.a

the effect of the acquisition of the right or the imposition of the covenant;

11.10.b

the use to be made of the right or covenant proposed to be acquired or
imposed; and

11.10.c

if the right or covenant is proposed to be acquired or imposed for works or
other purposes extending to other land, the effect of the whole of the works
and the use of the other land.

11.11

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquisition of the right or the
imposition of the covenant would have either of the consequences described in
paragraph 9, it must determine how much of the house, building or factory the
acquiring authority ought to be required to take.

11.12

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquiring authority ought to be
required to take some or all of the house, building or factory, the compulsory
purchase order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if they included
the owner’s interest in that land.

11.13

11.13.1

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquiring authority ought to be
required to take some or all of the house, building or factory, the acquiring
authority may at any time within the period of six weeks beginning with the
day on which the Upper Tribunal makes its determination withdraw the notice to
treat in relation to that land.

11.13.2

If the acquiring authority withdraws the notice to treat under this paragraph
it must pay the person on whom the notice was served compensation for any loss
or expense caused by the giving and withdrawing of the notice.

11.14

Any dispute as to the compensation is to be determined by the Upper Tribunal.

Protective provisions

Article 38

##### Protection for electricity, gas, water and sewerage undertakers


1

The provisions of this Part have effect unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and the utility undertaker in question.

2

In this Part—

“ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable the
utility undertaker in question to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner
no less efficient than previously; “ apparatus ” means— in the case of a
utility undertaker within paragraph (a) of the definition of that term,
electric lines or electrical plant (as defined in the Electricity Act 1989 ,
belonging to or maintained by that licence holder; in the case of a utility
undertaker within paragraph (b) of the definition of that term, any mains,
pipes or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by that gas transporter
within the meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986  for the purposes of gas
supply; in the case of a utility undertaker within paragraph (c) of the
definition of that term, mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or
maintained by that water undertaker for the purposes of water supply; and in
the case of a utility undertaker within paragraph (d) of the definition of
that term— any drain or works vested in the sewerage undertaker under the
Water Industry Act 1991 ; and any sewer which is so vested or is the subject
of a notice of intention to adopt given under section 102(4) (adoption of
sewers and disposal works) of that Act or an agreement to adopt made under
section 104 (agreements to adopt sewer, drain or sewerage disposal works, at
future date) of that Act , and includes a sludge main, disposal main (within
the meaning of section 219 (general interpretation) of that Act) or sewer
outfall and any manholes, ventilating shafts, pumps or other accessories
forming part of any such sewer, drain or works, and includes any structure in
which apparatus is or is to be lodged or which gives or will give access to
apparatus; “ functions ” includes powers and duties; “in” in a context
referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference
to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land; “ plan ”
includes all designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil
reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that
are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe the works to be
executed; and “ utility undertaker ” means— any licence holder within the
meaning of Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989; a gas transporter within the
meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986; a water undertaker within the meaning
of the Water Industry Act 1991; and a sewerage undertaker within the meaning
of Part 1 of the Water Industry Act 1991,

for the area of the onshore works, and in relation to any apparatus, means the
utility undertaker to whom it belongs or by whom it is maintained.

###### On street apparatus and offshore works


3

This Part does not apply to—

3.a

apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and the
utility undertaker are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 (street works in
England and Wales) of the 1991 Act; and

3.b

the offshore works.

###### Acquisition of land


4

Regardless of any provision of this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement.

###### Removal of apparatus


5

5.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or requires
that the utility undertaker’s apparatus is relocated or diverted, that
apparatus must not be removed under this Part, and any right of a utility
undertaker to maintain that apparatus in that land must not be extinguished
until alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in operation to the
reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker in question.

5.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the
removal of any apparatus placed in that land, the undertaker must give to the
utility undertaker in question 28 days’ written notice of that requirement,
together with a plan of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the
alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed; and in that case (or if
in consequence of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order a
utility undertaker reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the
undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph  (3) , afford to the utility
undertaker the necessary facilities and rights for the construction of
alternative apparatus in other land of the undertaker and subsequently for the
maintenance of that apparatus.

5.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2)  in
the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed, the utility undertaker in question must, on receipt of a written
notice to that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use
reasonable endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the
land in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

5.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part must be constructed in such manner and in such line or situation as
may be agreed between the utility undertaker in question and the undertaker or
in default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article 44
(arbitration).

5.5

The utility undertaker in question must, after the alternative apparatus to be
provided or constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in
accordance with article 44 (arbitration), and after the grant to the utility
undertaker of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-
paragraph  (2)  or  (3) , proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and
bring into operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any
apparatus required by the undertaker to be removed under the provisions of
this Part.

5.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph  (5) , if the undertaker gives notice
in writing to the utility undertaker in question that the undertaker desires
itself to execute any work, or part of any work, in connection with the
construction or removal of apparatus in any land of the undertaker, that work,
instead of being executed by the utility undertaker, must be executed by the
undertaker without unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and
to the reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker.

5.7

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (6)  authorises the undertaker to execute the
placing, installation, bedding, packing, removal, connection or disconnection
of any apparatus, or execute any filling around the apparatus (where the
apparatus is laid in a trench) within 300 millimetres of the apparatus.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus


6

6.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part, the undertaker affords
to a utility undertaker facilities and rights for the construction and
maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative apparatus in substitution
for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and rights must be granted upon
such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the undertaker and the
utility undertaker in question or in default of agreement settled by
arbitration in accordance with article 44 (arbitration).

6.2

In settling those terms and conditions in respect of alternative apparatus to
be constructed in or along the authorised development, the arbitrator must—

6.2.a

give effect to all reasonable requirements of the undertaker for ensuring the
safety and efficient operation of the authorised development and for securing
any subsequent alterations or adaptations of the alternative apparatus that
may be required to prevent interference with any proposed works of the
undertaker; and

6.2.b

so far as it may be reasonable and practicable to do so in the circumstances
of the particular case, give effect to the terms and conditions, if any,
applicable to the apparatus constructed in or along the authorised project for
which the alternative apparatus is to be substituted.

6.3

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to the utility undertaker in question than the
facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed
and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject,
the arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to that utility undertaker as appears to the arbitrator to be
reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus


7

7.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works in, on or
under any land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are
near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus the removal of which has not
been required by the undertaker under paragraph  5(2) , the undertaker must
submit to the utility undertaker in question a plan of the works to be
executed.

7.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan submitted under
sub-paragraph (1) and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may
be made in accordance with sub-paragraph  (3)  by the utility undertaker for
the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for
securing access to it, and the utility undertaker is entitled to watch and
inspect the execution of those works.

7.3

Any requirements made by a utility undertaker under sub-paragraph  (2)  must
be made within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan
under sub-paragraph (is submitted to it.

7.4

If a utility undertaker, in accordance with sub-paragraph  (3)  and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, the provisions of this Part apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 5(2).

7.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan instead of the plan previously submitted,
and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of
the new plan.

7.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) in a case of
emergency but in that case it must give to the utility undertaker in question
notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works as soon
as reasonably practicable subsequently and must comply with sub-paragraph (2)
in so far as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

###### Expenses and costs


8

8.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to a utility undertaker the reasonable expenses agreed with the
undertaker in advance and reasonably incurred by that utility undertaker in,
or in connection with, the inspection, removal, alteration or protection of
any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus which may be required
in consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred to in
paragraph 5(2).

8.2

The value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part must be
deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1), that value being
calculated after removal.

8.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part—

8.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

8.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article 44 (arbitration) to be necessary then,
if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part
exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus placed had been
of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the existing depth, as the
case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable
to the utility undertaker in question by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) must be
reduced by the amount of that excess.

8.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

8.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus must not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

8.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole must be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

8.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to a utility
undertaker in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) must, if the
works include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus
placed more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on the utility
undertaker any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the
apparatus in the ordinary course, is to be reduced by the amount which
represents that benefit.

9

9.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs  (2)  and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works referred to in paragraph 5(2) any damage is
caused to any apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which is not
reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of those
works) or property of a utility undertaker, or there is any interruption in
any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by any utility
undertaker, the undertaker must—

9.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by that utility undertaker in making
good such damage or restoring the supply; and

9.1.b

make reasonable compensation to that utility undertaker for any other
expenses, loss, damages, penalty or costs incurred by the utility undertaker,

by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption.

9.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of a utility undertaker, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

9.3

A utility undertaker must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise is to be made without the
consent of the undertaker and, if such consent is withheld, the undertaker has
the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings
necessary to resist the claim or demand.

###### Miscellaneous


10

Nothing in this Part affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between the undertaker and a utility undertaker in
respect of any apparatus in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on
which this Order is made.

##### For the protection of Dŵr Cymru Cyfyngedig (DC)


11

For the protection of DC referred to in this Part 2 of Schedule 9, the
following provisions, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the
undertaker and DC, have effect.

12

In this Part of this Schedule:

“ accessories ” has the same meaning as that set out in section 219 of the
Water Industry Act 1991 but also includes any feature or aspect of a design
that is intended to receive or facilitate the receipt of rainwater or surface
water and which is part of a sustainable drainage system; “ DC apparatus ”
means all apparatus or accessories vested in or belonging to DC for the
purpose of carrying on its statutory undertaking including reservoirs, water
treatment works and waste water treatment works; “ clearance area ” means the
area of land: within 3 metres either side of the centre line of any public
sewer or public water main that is less than 300mm in diameter; or within 6
metres either side of a public sewer or public water main where the public
sewer or public water main is 300mm in diameter or more. “ DC ” means Dŵr
Cymru Cyfyngedig, a limited company registered in Wales under Company No.
2366777 and having its registered office at Dwr Cymru Welsh Water, Linea,
Fortran Road, St Mellons, Cardiff, Wales, CF3 0LT or its properly authorised
agents or sub-contractors; “ draft specification ” means a detailed plan,
cross- section and description of the works to be prepared by the undertaker
(including, without limitation, a method statement and risk assessment setting
out the intention in respect of the works, construction methods and
programmes, position of the affected DC apparatus and intended works; “
emergency works ” has the same meaning as in section 52 of the 1991 Act; “
functions ” has the same meaning as in section 219 WIA 1991 and includes
powers and duties; “in” in a context referring to DC apparatus in land
includes a reference to DC apparatus under, over or upon land; “ sustainable
drainage system ” means any structure designed to receive rainwater and other
surface water where such structure includes any feature or aspect of design
that is intended to receive or facilitate the receipt of rainwater except a
public sewer or a natural watercourse; “ WIA 1991 ” means the Water Industry
Act  1991 (c.56)  as amended; “ works ” means any works forming part of the
authorised development in, on, over or under any land purchased, held, or used
under this Order that are within 15 metres measured in any direction of any DC
apparatus, or reasonably likely to affect any DC apparatus together with all
ancillary actions relating hereto; and

for the avoidance of doubt, all other terms are as defined in Part 2 of this
Schedule or article 2 of this Order.

13

13.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference, the undertaker is not to acquire any DC
apparatus or its accessories or override or extinguish any easement or other
interest of DC or acquire any land or other interest of DC identified in the
book of reference or create any new rights over the same otherwise than by
agreement with DC (not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) in accordance
with the provisions of this Schedule.

13.2

Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to the powers conferred on the undertaker by
this Order to interfere temporarily with DC’s rights to access DC apparatus or
accessories but subject always to paragraphs 17 and 18 of this Part and to the
undertaker giving DC 28 days notice of such interference.

###### Precedence of the WIA 1991


14

14.1

Regardless of any provision of this Order and this Schedule the undertaker
must comply fully with all provisions of the WIA 1991 in relation to any use
of, any connection with or any actions or omissions which in any way affect
the DC apparatus and nothing in this Order releases the undertaker from the
requirement to comply with the provisions of the WIA 1991 in relation to any
use of, any connection with or any actions or omissions which in any way
affect the DC apparatus, including without limitation:

14.1.a

sections 41-44 of the WIA 1991 in respect of water main requisitions;

14.1.b

section 45 of the WIA 1991 in respect of any connections to a water main;

14.1.c

sections 98-101 of the WIA 1991 in respect of sewer requisitions;

14.1.d

section 102 of the WIA 1991 in respect of the adoption of sewers and disposal
works;

14.1.e

section 104 of the WIA 1991 in respect of the adoption of any sewers, drains
or sewage disposal works as part of the development;

14.1.f

sections 106 to 109 of the WIA 1991 (inclusive) in respect of any connections
to public sewers;

14.1.g

section 111 of the WIA 1991 in respect of the restrictions on use of public
sewers;

14.1.h

sections 158 and 159 of the WIA 1991 in respect of statutory rights of access
to DC apparatus;

14.1.i

section 174 of the WIA 1991 in respect of offences of interference with works
etc;

14.1.j

section 178 of the WIA 1991 in respect of obstruction of sewerage works etc;

14.1.k

section 185 of the WIA 1991 in respect of the removal, diversion or alteration
of DC apparatus.

14.2

The arbitration provisions at article 44 of this Order must not apply where DC
uses a warrant of entry in accordance with the provisions of the WIA 1991.

###### Protection of DC apparatus


15

15.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works that are
within the clearance area or will, or could reasonably foreseeably affect, any
DC apparatus the removal or alteration of which has not been required by the
undertaker under paragraph 14(l), the undertaker must submit to DC written
notice together with a draft specification. For the purposes of preparing the
draft specification DC must, following a written request and subject to such
reasonable conditions as may be imposed by DC (including in respect of payment
of its reasonable costs in meeting the request), provide the undertaker with
copies of such plans and records of its apparatus as may be held by DC.

15.2

DC is to examine the draft specification submitted under sub-paragraph 15(1)
and give its written consent or proposed amendments (each not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed) to the draft specification (including the
proposed commencement date and anticipated completion date) within 28 days
from the date of receipt (and in the event of amendments the process in this
sub-paragraph 15(2) will be repeated where those amendments are not accepted
by the undertaker). For the avoidance of doubt, DC’s proposed amendments may
include such reasonable requirements for the alteration (including but not
limited to the extension of DC apparatus) or otherwise for the protection of
DC apparatus, or for securing access to it.

15.3

If after the expiry of 28 days DC has not communicated approval or disapproval
under sub-paragraph 15(2), the undertaker may write to DC at
DeveloperServicesassetenquiries@dwrcymru.com  or such other address as DC may
appoint instead for that purpose and notify the undertaker in writing clearly
stating that no response has been received from DC under sub-paragraph 15(2)
and that a response must be provided to the undertaker within 14 days from the
date of receipt of the correspondence sent under this sub-paragraph 15(3) and
if no response is received within 14 days from the date of receipt DC is
deemed to have approved the plans as supplied under sub-paragraph 15(2).

15.4

Once approved under sub-paragraph 15(2) or 15(3), the draft specification is
to become the specification and the works are to be executed only in
accordance with the specification and such reasonable requirements as may be
made in accordance with sub‑paragraph 15(2) and DC is entitled to watch and
inspect the execution of those works.

15.5

Nothing in this paragraph 15 precludes the undertaker from submitting at any
time or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing
the execution of any works, a draft specification instead of the draft
specification previously submitted, and having done so the provisions of this
paragraph 15 apply to and in respect of the new draft specification.

15.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph 15(1) in a case of
emergency provided it has complied with paragraph 18 below save that the
undertaker is to comply with sub-paragraphs 15(1) and (4) above in so far as
is reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

15.7

DC may opt to carry out any temporary and/or protective works specified under
sub-paragraph 15(2) to DC apparatus, and if DC opts to do so it will:

15.7.a

agree the scope and timings of the works with the undertaker (and the
undertaker must not unreasonably withhold or delay its agreement to the same);

15.7.b

provide an invoice together with supporting evidence of the estimated costs of
the works on the basis of which it is to agree with undertaker the reasonable
costs of the works to be met by the undertaker;

15.7.c

following agreement and payment of the costs, DC will as soon as reasonably
practicable carry out and complete the works; and

15.7.d

notify the undertaker immediately in writing upon completion of the temporary
and/or protective works.

15.8

Where DC apparatus will be affected by the works the undertaker must determine
the exact location of DC apparatus prior to any works being carried out by the
undertaker.

15.9

The undertaker must give DC at least 7 days’ advance written notice of making
any trial holes within 15 metres measured in any direction of any DC apparatus
which must include details of the timings and location of the trial holes and
allow a representative of DC to attend and observe these works.

15.10

Any affected DC apparatus which is no longer required by DC but is not removed
shall be transferred to the undertaker by way of a deed of transfer from DC at
the undertaker’s expense and on such terms as DC reasonably requires.

###### Suspension of works


16

16.1

DC is entitled to instruct the undertaker to suspend the relevant works if in
DC’s reasonable and proper opinion the actions of the undertaker, or those of
its contractor(s) or subcontractor(s) in carrying out the works, have caused
damage to any DC apparatus. In the event of such instruction being given by
DC—

16.1.a

the undertaker must procure that it and its contractor(s) and subcontractor(s)
shall forthwith suspend or cease the works having due regard to health and
safety factors and shall discuss and agree with DC the remedial actions
required prior to resuming the works;

16.1.b

the undertaker and DC must act reasonably and without delay in discussing and
agreeing any remedial actions required prior to resuming the works;

16.1.c

DC must submit to the undertaker within 5 days following the suspension, a
written notice specifying the reasons for suspending the works;

16.1.d

in the event that DC fails to supply the written notice within 5 days of
suspension DC’s instruction to suspend the works will be void and the
undertaker will be entitled to recommence the works; and

16.1.e

DC must commence, carry out and complete any remedial works pursuant to sub-
paragraph 16(1), as soon as reasonably practicable and DC must give the
undertaker notice immediately upon completion of such remedial works and on
receipt of such notice the undertaker is entitled to resume the works.

16.2

DCC is entitled to reclaim all reasonable costs of all remedial works
undertaken in accordance with this paragraph 16.

###### Co-Operation


17

17.1

In the event that either the undertaker or DC (for the purpose of this
paragraph 16 “the party” or together “the parties”) wishes to take any action
which would impact on the ability of the undertaker to carry out the
authorised development or DC to carry out its statutory functions, the parties
must use reasonable endeavours to cooperate with one another in order to align
work streams so to minimise or avoid disruption to the other party’s works. In
respect of the references to ‘work’ and ‘works’ in this sub-paragraph 17(1),
to the extent that this refers to ‘work’ or ‘works’ to be undertaken by DC,
the definition of works in paragraph 12 of this Part does not apply.

17.2

Subject to paragraph 18, differences or disputes arising between the
undertaker and DC under this Schedule will, unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and DC, be determined by arbitration in accordance with
article 44 (arbitration) of the Order.

17.3

For the avoidance of doubt whenever DC’s consent, agreement or approval is
required in relation to plans, documents or other information submitted by the
undertaker or the taking of action by DC is required, it must not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Emergency Works


18

18.1

The undertaker is permitted to carry out emergency works provided that it
first notifies DC of the proposed emergency works. For the avoidance of doubt,
in the event that DC suffers any loss, cost or damage as a result of the
emergency action taken by the undertaker without prior notification the
indemnity in paragraph 19 will apply.

18.2

DC must at all times be permitted to carry out any emergency works in relation
to its DC apparatus within the Order limits in accordance with Part II
Schedule 6 WIA 1991.

18.3

Emergency works required in order for DC to fulfil its statutory functions
under sub-paragraph 18(2) takes precedence over works to be carried out by the
undertaker and, in such circumstances, the undertaker must reschedule its
works accordingly.

18.4

In respect of the references to ‘work’ and ‘works’ in this paragraph 18, to
the extent that this is ‘work’ or ‘works’ to be undertaken by DC, the
definition of works in paragraph 12 of this Part does not apply.

###### Damage to DC apparatus


19

19.1

If, for any reason or in consequence of the construction of any of the works,
any damage is caused to any DC apparatus (other than DC apparatus, the repair
of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the
purposes of the works), or there is any interruption in any service provided,
or in the supply of any goods, by DC, the undertaker must—

19.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim by DC the cost
reasonably and properly incurred and documented by DC in making good any
damage or restoring the supply; and

19.1.b

make reasonable compensation to DC for any other expenses, loss, damages,
penalty or costs incurred by DC, by reason or in consequence of any the damage
or interruption.

19.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect of—

19.2.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the act,
neglect or default of DC, its officers, employees, contractors or agents; and
/ or

19.2.b

any indirect or consequential loss of any third party (including but not
limited to loss of use, revenue, profit, contract, production, increased cost
of working or business interruption) arising from any such damage or
interruption, which is not reasonably foreseeable.

19.3

DC must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or demand and
no settlement, admission of liability or compromise or demand is to be made
without the consent of the undertaker.

19.4

Nothing in this Part affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between the undertaker and DC in respect of any DC
apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on
which the Order is made.

19.5

DC must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate in whole or in part and to
minimise any claims, costs, expenses, losses, damages, demands, and penalties
to which the indemnity under this paragraph 19 applies. If requested to do so
by the undertaker, DC must provide an explanation of how the claim has been
minimised. The undertaker will only be liable under this paragraph 19 for
claims reasonably incurred by DC.

##### For the protection of National Grid


###### Application


20

The provisions of this Part have effect for the protection of National Grid
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and National Grid.

###### Interpretation


21

21.1

In this Part—

“ alternative apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the
satisfaction of National Grid to enable National Grid to fulfil its statutory
functions in a manner no less efficient than previously; “ apparatus ” means:
electric lines or electrical plant as defined in the 1989 Act, belonging to or
maintained by National Grid together with any replacement apparatus; and such
other apparatus constructed pursuant to the Order that becomes operational
apparatus of the undertaker for the purposes of transmission, distribution
and/or supply and includes any structure in which apparatus is or must be
lodged or which gives or will give access to apparatus; and any electrical
lines or electrical plant as defined in the 1989 Act, any mains, pipes, plant
or other apparatus belonging to, operated or maintained by National Grid for
the purposes of the construction, operation and maintenance of the Bodelwyddan
Project, whether temporary or permanent, and includes, where the context so
requires, apparatus constructed as part of the authorised development and
intended for the beneficial use by National Grid (“Bodelwyddan apparatus”); “
authorised development ” has the same meaning as in article 2 (interpretation)
of this Order (unless otherwise specified) and includes any associated
development authorised by the Order and for the purposes of this Part includes
the use and maintenance of the authorised development and construction of any
works authorised by this Schedule; “ Bodelwyddan Project ” means the proposed
extension of the Bodelwyddan substation, diversion of gas pipeline and
overhead electricity line upgrade to be undertaken by National Grid and any
temporary construction compound and laydown area for such works; “ Bodelwyddan
Site ” includes— land on which any Bodelwyddan apparatus is situated; and land
on which Bodelwyddan apparatus is anticipated to be situated which is
necessary for the construction, use or maintenance of the Bodelwyddan Project
(in so far as the same has been notified by National Grid in writing to the
undertaker); “ commence ” has the same meaning as in article 2 of this Order
and commencement shall be construed to have the same meaning; “ deed of
consent ” means a deed of consent, crossing agreement, deed of variation or
new deed of grant agreed between the parties acting reasonably in order to
vary or replace existing easements, agreements, enactments and other such
interests so as to secure land rights and interests as are necessary to carry
out, maintain, operate and use the apparatus in a manner consistent with the
terms of this Part of this Schedule; “ functions ” includes powers and duties;
“in” in a context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land
includes a reference to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over,
across, along or upon such land; “maintain” and “maintenance” include the
ability and right to do any of the following in relation to any apparatus or
alternative apparatus of National Grid including construct, use, repair,
alter, inspect, renew or remove the apparatus; “ National Grid ” means
National Grid Electricity Transmission PLC (Company No. 2366977) whose
registered office is at 1-3 Strand, London, WC2N 5EH or any successor company;
“ National Grid connection works ” means any part of Work Nos. 36, 39, 39A, 40
and 41 as described in Schedule 1 of this Order (authorised development);
“plan” or “plans” include all designs, drawings, specifications, method
statements, soil reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other
documents that are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe
and assess the works to be executed; and “ specified works ” means any of the
authorised development or activities undertaken in association with the
authorised development which— will or may be situated over, or within 15
metres measured in any direction of, any apparatus the removal of which has
not been required by the undertaker under paragraph 31(2) or otherwise; may in
any way adversely affect any apparatus the removal of which has not been
required by the undertaker under paragraph 31(2) or otherwise; or includes any
of the activities that are referred to in National Grid’s publication
“Development near overhead lines “ENA 43-8 and HSE’s guidance note 6 “Avoiding
Danger from Overhead Lines” and HSE’s guidance note HSG47 “Avoiding danger
from underground services”.

###### Interaction with the Bodelwyddan Project


22

Without limiting any other provision of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker must use reasonable endeavours to avoid any conflict arising
between the construction, maintenance and operation of the authorised
development and the Bodelwyddan Project. For the purposes of this paragraph, “
reasonable endeavours ” means—

22.a

undertaking consultation on the detailed design and programming of the
National Grid connection works and all works associated with or ancillary to
the National Grid connection works to ensure that the design and programme for
the National Grid connection works does not unreasonably impede or interfere
with the Bodelwyddan Project;

22.b

having regard to the proposed programme of works for the Bodelwyddan Project
as may be made available to the undertaker by National Grid and facilitating a
co-ordinated approach to the programme, land assembly, and the carrying out of
the National Grid connection works and the Bodelwyddan Project;

22.c

providing a point of contact for continuing liaison and co-ordination
throughout the construction and operation of the authorised development; and

22.d

keeping National Grid informed on the programme of works for the authorised
development.

###### National Grid connection works


23

The undertaker must not except with the agreement of National Grid carry out
the National Grid connection works, or any part of it.

24

24.1

Before beginning to construct any National Grid connection works, or any part
of it, the undertaker must submit to National Grid plans of the relevant
National Grid connection works (or part of it) and such further particulars
available to it as National Grid may request within 21 days of receipt of the
plans reasonably requested.

24.2

Any National Grid connection works must not be constructed except in
accordance with such plans as may be approved in writing by National Grid.

25

25.1

Any approval of National Grid required under this Schedule—

25.1.a

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed;

25.1.b

in the case of a refusal must be accompanied by a statement of grounds or
refusal; and

25.1.c

may be given subject to such reasonable requirements as National Grid may have
in connection with the safe, economic and efficient construction,
commissioning, operation, maintenance and future decommissioning of the
Bodelwyddan Project or otherwise for the protection of Bodelwyddan apparatus,

provided always that in relation to a refusal under sub-paragraph (b) or any
requirements requested pursuant to sub-paragraph (c) the undertaker shall be
permitted to refer such matters to dispute resolution pursuant to paragraph
39.

25.2

National Grid must employ reasonable endeavours to respond to the submission
of any plans within a period of 56 days from the date of submission of the
plans. If National Grid require further particulars, such particulars must be
requested by National Grid no later than 21 days from the submission of plans
and thereafter National Grid must employ reasonable endeavours to respond to
the submission within 56 days from receipt of the further particulars.

26

26.1

The undertaker must give to National Grid not less than 14 days’ notice in
writing of its intention to commence construction of any National Grid
connection works and notice in writing of its completion not later than 7 days
after the date on which it is completed and National Grid will be entitled by
its officer to watch and inspect the construction of such works.

26.2

If any part of the National Grid connection works is constructed otherwise
than in accordance with paragraph 24(2) above National Grid may by notice in
writing identify the extent to which the National Grid connection works do not
comply with the approved details and request the undertaker at the
undertaker’s own expense carry out remedial works so as to comply with the
requirements of paragraph 24(2) of this Schedule or such alternative works as
may be agreed with National Grid or as otherwise may be agreed between the
parties.

26.3

Subject to sub-paragraph (4), if within a reasonable period, being not less
than 28 days beginning with the date when a notice under sub-paragraph (2) is
served upon the undertaker, the undertaker has failed to begin taking steps to
comply with the requirements of the notice and has not subsequently made
reasonably expeditious progress towards their implementation, National Grid
may execute the works specified in the notice and any reasonable expenditure
incurred by National Grid in so doing will be recoverable from the undertaker.

26.4

In the event of any dispute as to whether sub-paragraph (2) is properly
applicable to any work in respect of which notice has been served under that
sub-paragraph, or as to the reasonableness of any requirement of such a
notice, National Grid will not, except in the case of an emergency, exercise
the powers conferred by sub-paragraph (3) until the dispute has been finally
determined in accordance with paragraph 39.

###### On Street Apparatus


27

Except for paragraphs 28 (apparatus of National Grid in streets subject to
temporary stopping up), 33 (retained apparatus: protection of National Grid as
electricity undertaker), 35 (expenses) and 35 (indemnity) of this Schedule,
the other provisions of this Schedule do not apply to apparatus in respect of
which the relations between the undertaker and National Grid are regulated by
the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus of National Grid in streets subject to temporary stopping up


28

28.1

Without prejudice to the generality of any other protection afforded to
National Grid elsewhere in the Order, where any street is stopped up under
article 12 (temporary restriction of use of streets), if National Grid has any
apparatus in the street or accessed via that street National Grid is entitled
to the same rights in respect of such apparatus as it enjoyed immediately
before the stopping up and the undertaker will grant to National Grid, or will
procure the granting to National Grid of, legal easements reasonably
satisfactory to National Grid in respect of such apparatus and access to it
prior to the stopping up of any such street or highway but nothing in this
paragraph affects any right of the undertaker or National Grid to require the
removal of that apparatus under paragraph 31 or the power of the undertaker,
subject to compliance with this sub-paragraph, to carry out works under
paragraph 33.

28.2

Notwithstanding a temporary restriction under article 12 (temporary
restriction of use of streets), National Grid is at liberty at all times to
take all necessary access across any such street or to execute and do all such
works and things in, upon or under any such street as may be reasonably
necessary or desirable to enable it to maintain any apparatus which at the
time of the stopping up or diversion is in that street.

###### Protective works to buildings


29

The undertaker, in the case of the powers conferred by article 16 (protective
works to buildings), must exercise those powers so as not to obstruct or
render less convenient the access to any apparatus or to the Bodelwyddan Site
without the written consent of National Grid which will not unreasonably be
withheld.

###### Acquisition of land


30

30.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference, the undertaker may not (a) acquire or
take temporary possession of any land interest or apparatus or (b)
appropriate, acquire, extinguish, interfere with or override any easement or
other interest of National Grid otherwise than by agreement (such agreement
not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed).

30.2

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker must not unless otherwise agreed in writing with National Grid
acquire any land forming part of the Bodelwyddan Site (such agreement not to
be unreasonably withheld or delayed).

30.3

As a condition of an agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph (1), prior
to the carrying out of any part of the authorised development (or in such
other timeframe as may be agreed between National Grid and the undertaker)
that is subject to the requirements of this Part of this Schedule that will
cause any conflict with or breach the terms of any easement or other legal or
land interest of National Grid or affect the provisions of any enactment or
agreement regulating the relations between National Grid and the undertaker in
respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to or secured by
the undertaker, the undertaker must as National Grid reasonably requires enter
into such deeds of consent upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between National Grid and the undertaker acting reasonably and which must be
no less favourable on the whole to National Grid unless otherwise agreed by
National Grid, and it will be the responsibility of the undertaker to procure
and/or secure the consent and entering into of such deeds and variations by
all other third parties with an interest in the land at that time who are
affected by such authorised development.

30.4

The undertaker and National Grid agree that where there is any inconsistency
or duplication between the provisions set out in this Part relating to the
relocation or removal of apparatus (including but not limited to the payment
of costs and expenses relating to such relocation or removal of apparatus) and
the provisions of any existing easement, rights, agreements and licences
granted, used, enjoyed or exercised by National Grid as of right or other use
in relation to the apparatus, then the provisions in this Schedule prevail.

30.5

Any agreement or consent granted by National Grid under paragraph 33 or any
other paragraph of this Part must not be taken to constitute agreement under
sub-paragraph 30(1).

###### Removal of apparatus


31

31.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order the undertaker
acquires any interest in or possesses temporarily any Order land in which any
apparatus is placed, that apparatus must not be removed under this Part and
any right of National Grid to maintain that apparatus in that land must not be
extinguished until alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in
operation to the reasonable satisfaction of National Grid in accordance with
sub-paragraphs (2) to (5).

31.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works comprised in the authorised
development in, on, under or over any land purchased, held, appropriated or
used under this Order, the undertaker requires the removal of any apparatus
placed in that land, it must give to National Grid a minimum of 56 days’
advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan of the work
proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative apparatus to be
provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence of the exercise
of any of the powers conferred by this Order National Grid reasonably needs to
remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph
(3), secure any necessary consents for the alternative apparatus and afford to
National Grid to its satisfaction (taking into account paragraph 32(1) below)
the necessary facilities and rights—

31.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of or land secured
by the undertaker; and

31.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

31.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of or land secured by the undertaker, or the
undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in
sub-paragraph (2) in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of
such apparatus is to be constructed, National Grid must, on receipt of a
written notice to that effect from the undertaker, take such steps as are
reasonable in the circumstances to obtain the necessary facilities and rights
in the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed save that
this obligation does not extend to the requirement for National Grid to use
its compulsory purchase powers to this end unless it elects to do so.

31.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between National Grid and the undertaker.

31.5

National Grid must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed has been agreed, and subject to a written diversion agreement
having been entered into between the parties and the grant to National Grid of
any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph (2) or  (3)
, proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus


32

32.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part, the undertaker affords
to or secures National Grid facilities and rights in land for the
construction, use, maintenance and protection of alternative apparatus in
substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and rights must be
granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the undertaker
and National Grid and must be no less favourable on the whole to National Grid
than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be
removed unless agreed by National Grid.

32.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker and agreed with
National Grid under sub-paragraph (1) in respect of any alternative apparatus,
and the terms and conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are
to be granted, are less favourable on the whole to National Grid than the
facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed
and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject,
the matter may be referred to arbitration under paragraph 39 (arbitration) and
the arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to National Grid as appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable
having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case. In respect of
the appointment of an arbitrator under this sub-paragraph, article 44
(arbitration) applies.

###### Retained apparatus: Protection of National Grid as Electricity Undertaker


33

33.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works, the
undertaker must submit to National Grid a plan of the works to be executed and
seek from National Grid details of the underground extent of their electricity
tower foundations.

33.2

In relation to works which will or may be situated on, over, under or within
(i) 15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus, or (ii) which
involve embankment works within 15 metres of any apparatus, the plan to be
submitted to National Grid under sub-paragraph (1) must include a method
statement and describe—

33.2.a

the exact position of the works;

33.2.b

the level at which they are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

33.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation
and positioning of plant;

33.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

33.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus;

33.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes; and

33.2.g

an assessment of risks of rise of earth issues.

33.3

In relation to any works which will or may be situated on, over, under or
within 10 metres of any part of the foundations of an electricity tower or
between any two or more adjacent electricity towers which are within the Order
limits or within 10 metres of the Order limits, the plan to be submitted under
sub-paragraph (1) must in addition to the matters set out in sub-paragraph (2)
include a method statement describing—

33.3.a

details of any cable trench design including route, dimensions, clearance to
pylon foundations;

33.3.b

demonstration that pylon foundations will not be affected prior to, during and
post construction;

33.3.c

details of load bearing capacities of trench supporting structures;

33.3.d

details of cable installation methodology including access arrangements,
jointing bays and backfill methodology;

33.3.e

a written management plan for high voltage hazard during construction and
ongoing maintenance of the cable route;

33.3.f

written details of the operations and maintenance regime for the cable,
including frequency and method of access;

33.3.g

assessment of earth rise potential if reasonably required by National Grid’s
engineers; and

33.3.h

evidence that trench collapse resistance and supporting structures bearing
capacity are to be designed to support overhead line construction traffic of
at least 26 tonnes in weight.

33.4

The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub-paragraph (2) or (3)
applies until National Grid has given written approval of the plan so
submitted.

33.5

Any approval of National Grid required under sub-paragraph (4)—

33.5.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraph (6) or (8);

33.5.b

may be given subject to such reasonable requirements as National Grid may have
in connection with the safe and efficient construction, commissioning,
operation and maintenance of the Bodelwyddan Project; and

33.5.c

and must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

33.6

In relation to a work to which sub-paragraph (2) or (3) applies, National Grid
may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be reasonably
necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against interference or
risk of damage or for the purpose of providing or securing proper and
convenient means of access to any apparatus.

33.7

Works executed under sub-paragraph (2) or (3) must only be executed in
accordance with the plan submitted under sub-paragraph (1) or as relevant sub-
paragraph (6) as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement between
the undertaker and National Grid and in accordance with such reasonable
requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs (5), (6), (8) or
(9) by National Grid for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the
apparatus, or for securing access to it, and National Grid is entitled to
watch and inspect the execution of those works.

33.8

Where under sub-paragraph (6) National Grid requires any protective works to
be carried out either by itself or by the undertaker (whether of a temporary
or permanent nature) such protective works must be carried out to National
Grid’s satisfaction prior to the commencement of any authorised development
(or any relevant part thereof) for which protective works are required and
National Grid must give 56 days’ notice of its requirement for such works from
the date of submission of a plan in line with this paragraph (except in an
emergency).

33.9

If National Grid in accordance with sub-paragraph (6) or (8) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, sub-paragraphs 1 to 3 and 6 to 8 applies as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 31(2).

33.10

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the authorised development, a new plan, instead of the plan
previously submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph
apply to and in respect of the new plan.

33.11

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it needs
to carry out emergency works as defined in the 1991 Act but in that case it
must give to National Grid notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a
plan of those works and must—

33.11.a

comply with sub-paragraphs (6), (7) and (8) in so far as is reasonably
practicable in the circumstances; and

33.11.b

comply with sub-paragraph (12) at all times.

33.12

At all times when carrying out any works authorised under the Order, the
undertaker must comply with National Grid’s policies for development near
overhead lines ENA 43-8 and the Health and Safety Executive’s guidance note 6
“Avoiding danger from overhead power lines”.

###### Expenses


34

34.1

Save where otherwise agreed in writing between National Grid and the
undertaker and subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the
undertaker must pay to National Grid within 30 days of receipt of an itemised
invoice or claim from National Grid all charges, costs and expenses reasonably
and properly incurred by National Grid in, or in connection with, the
inspection, removal, relaying or replacing, alteration or protection of any
apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus or alternative apparatus
which may be required in consequence of the execution of any such works as are
referred to in this Part including without limitation—

34.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by National
Grid in connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory
powers for such apparatus including without limitation all costs incurred by
National Grid as a consequence of National Grid:

34.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph 31(3); or

34.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers in the Order transferred to or
benefitting National Grid.

34.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus, where no written diversion agreement
is otherwise in place;

34.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

34.1.d

the approval of plans;

34.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works; and

34.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part.

34.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part and which is not
re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that value being calculated
after removal.

34.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part—

34.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

34.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement settled by arbitration in
accordance with article 44 (arbitration) to be necessary, then, if such
placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part exceeding
that which would have been involved if the apparatus placed had been of the
existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the existing depth, as the case
may be, the amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to
National Grid by virtue of sub-paragraph will be reduced by the amount of that
excess save where it is not possible in the circumstances to obtain the
existing type of apparatus at the same capacity and dimensions or place at the
existing depth in which case full costs will be borne by the undertaker.

34.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (3) —

34.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

34.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

34.5

Any amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to National
Grid in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will, if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on National Grid any
financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the
ordinary course, be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

###### Indemnity


35

35.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) , if by reason or in consequence of
the construction of any works authorised by this Part or in consequence of the
construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the authorised development
by or on behalf of the undertaker or in consequence of any act or default of
the undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by it) in the course of
carrying out such works (including without limitation works carried out by the
undertaker under this Part or any subsidence resulting from any of these
works), any damage is caused to any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other
than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its
intended removal for the purpose of those works) or property of National Grid,
or there is any interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any
goods, by National Grid, or National Grid becomes liable to pay any amount to
any third party, the undertaker will—

35.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim from National Grid
the cost reasonably and properly incurred by National Grid in making good such
damage or restoring the supply; and

35.1.b

indemnify National Grid for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings,
damages, claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from National Grid,
by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption or National
Grid becoming liable to any third party as aforesaid other than arising from
any default by National Grid.

35.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by National Grid on behalf
of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by National Grid or in
accordance with any requirement of National Grid as a consequence of the
authorised development or under its supervision does not (unless sub-paragraph
(3)  applies) excuse the undertaker from liability under the provisions of
sub-paragraph (1), unless National Grid fails to carry out and execute the
works properly with due care and attention and in a skilful and workmanlike
manner or in a manner that does not materially accord with the approved plan
or as otherwise agreed between the undertaker and National Grid.

35.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) will impose any liability on the undertaker in
respect of—

35.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of National Grid, its officers, employees, contractors or
agents; and

35.3.b

any authorised development or any other works authorised by this Part carried
out by National Grid as an assignee, transferee or lessee of the undertaker
with the benefit of this Order pursuant to section 156 of the 2008 Act or
article 6 (benefit of the Order) subject to the proviso that once such works
become apparatus (“new apparatus”) any works yet to be executed and not
falling within this sub-paragraph (b) are subject to the full terms of this
Part including this paragraph in respect of such new apparatus.

35.4

National Grid must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any claim or
demand and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise or demand must
be made, unless payment is required in connection with a statutory
compensation scheme, without first consulting the undertaker and considering
its representations.

35.5

National Grid must, in respect of any matter covered by the indemnity given by
the undertaker in this paragraph, at all times act reasonably and in the same
manner as it would as if settling third party claims on its own behalf from
its own funds.

###### Enactments and agreements


36

Save to the extent provided for to the contrary elsewhere in this Part or by
agreement in writing between the undertaker and National Grid, nothing in this
Part affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement regulating the
relations between the undertaker and National Grid in respect of any apparatus
laid or erected in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on which this
Order is made.

###### Co-operation


37

37.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised development the undertaker or National Grid requires the removal of
apparatus under paragraph 31(2) or National Grid makes requirements for the
protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 33, the undertaker must
use its best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the
interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised
development and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient
operation of National Grid’s undertaking and National Grid must use its best
endeavours to co-operate with the undertaker for that purpose.

37.2

Whenever National Grid’s consent, agreement or approval is required in
relation to plans, documents or other information submitted by the undertaker,
or the taking of action by the undertaker is required, it must not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Access


38

If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 30(1)
or the powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus or the
Bodelwyddan Site is materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such
alternative means of access to such apparatus or the Bodelwyddan Site as will
enable National Grid to maintain or use the apparatus no less effectively than
was possible before such obstruction.

###### Arbitration


39

Save for differences or disputes arising under paragraphs 31(2), 31(4), and 33
any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and National Grid
under this Part must, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the
undertaker and National Grid, be determined by arbitration in accordance with
article 44 (arbitration).

###### Notices


40

The plans submitted to National Grid by the undertaker pursuant to this Part
must be submitted to https://lsbud.co.uk/ or such other address as National
Grid may from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and notify to the
undertaker in writing.

##### For the protection of SP Manweb as electricity undertaker


###### Application


41

The following provisions have effect for the protection of SP Manweb unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and SP Manweb.

###### Interpretation


42

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ alternative apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to enable SP
Manweb to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner no less efficient than
previously (to the reasonable satisfaction of SP Manweb); “ apparatus ” means
electric lines or electrical plant as defined in the 1989 Act, belonging to or
maintained by SP Manweb together with any replacement apparatus and such other
apparatus constructed pursuant to the Order that becomes operational apparatus
of SP Manweb for the purposes of transmission, distribution and/or supply and
includes any structure in which apparatus is or will be lodged or which gives
or will give access to apparatus; “ authorised development ” has the same
meaning as is given to the term “authorised development” in article 2 of this
Order and includes any associated development authorised by the Order and for
the purposes of this Part of this Schedule includes the use and maintenance of
the authorised development and construction of any works authorised by this
Part of this Schedule; “ commence ” has the same meaning as in article 2 of
this Order and commencement must be construed to have the same meaning; “ deed
of consent ” means a deed of consent, crossing agreement, deed of variation or
new deed of grant agreed between the parties acting reasonably in order to
vary and/or replace existing easements, agreements, enactments and other such
interests so as to secure land rights and interests as are necessary to carry
out, maintain, operate and use the apparatus in a manner consistent with the
terms of this Part of this Schedule; “ functions ” includes powers and duties;
“in” in a context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land
includes a reference to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over,
across, along or upon such land; “maintain” and “ maintenance ” includes the
ability and right to do any of the following in relation to any apparatus or
alternative apparatus of SP Manweb including construct, use, repair, alter,
inspect, renew or remove the apparatus; “plan” or “plans” include all designs,
drawings, specifications, method statements, soil reports, programmes,
calculations, risk assessments and other documents that are reasonably
necessary properly and sufficiently to describe and assess the works to be
executed; “ SP Manweb ” means SP Manweb PLC (Company No. 02366937) whose
registered office is at 3 Prenton Way, Prenton, CH43 3ET or any successor
company; “ specified works ” means any of the authorised development or
activities undertaken in association with the authorised development which:
will or may be situated over, or within 15 metres (measured in any direction)
of any apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker
under paragraph 45(2) or otherwise; is reasonably likely to adversely affect
any apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker
under paragraph 45(2) or otherwise; and/or include any of the activities that
are referred to in SP Manweb’s polices for development near overhead lines
EN43-8 and HSE’s guidance note 6 “Avoidance of Danger from Overhead Lines”.

###### On Street Apparatus


43

Except for paragraphs 47, 48 and 49 of this Part of this Schedule which will
apply in respect of the exercise of all or any powers under the Order
affecting the rights and apparatus of SP Manweb, the other provisions of this
Schedule do not apply to apparatus in respect of which the relations between
the undertaker and SP Manweb are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 of the
1991 Act.

###### Acquisition of land


44

44.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference to the Order, the undertaker may not
appropriate or acquire or take temporary possession of any land interest of SP
Manweb or appropriate, acquire, extinguish, interfere with or override any
easement or other interest or right and/or apparatus of SP Manweb otherwise
than by agreement (such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed).

44.2

As a condition of agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph (1), prior to
the carrying out of any part of the authorised development (or in such other
timeframe as may be agreed between SP Manweb and the undertaker) that are
subject to the requirements of this Part of this Schedule that will cause any
conflict with or breach the terms of any easement and/or other legal or land
interest of SP Manweb and/or affects the provisions of any enactment or
agreement regulating the relations between SP Manweb and the undertaker in
respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to or secured by
the undertaker, the undertaker must as SP Manweb reasonably requires enter
into such deeds of consent upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between SP Manweb and the undertaker acting reasonably and which must be no
less favourable on the whole to SP Manweb unless otherwise agreed by SP
Manweb, and it will be the responsibility of the undertaker to procure and/or
secure the consent and entering into of such deeds and variations by all other
third parties with an interest in the land at that time who are affected by
such authorised development.

44.3

Where there is any inconsistency or duplication between the provisions set out
in this Part of this Schedule relating to the relocation and/or removal of
apparatus (including but not limited to the payment of costs and expenses
relating to such relocation and/or removal of apparatus) and the provisions of
any existing easement, rights, agreements and licences granted, used, enjoyed
or exercised by SP Manweb and/or other enactments relied upon by SP Manweb as
of right or other use in relation to the apparatus, then the provisions in
this Schedule must prevail.

44.4

No agreement or consent granted by SP Manweb under any other paragraph of this
Part of this Schedule constitutes agreement under sub-paragraph (1).

###### Removal of apparatus


45

45.1

If, in the exercise of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 44
or in any other authorised manner, the undertaker acquires any interest in any
land in which any apparatus is placed, that apparatus must not be removed
under this Part of this Schedule and any right of SP Manweb to maintain that
apparatus in that land must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus
has been constructed, and is in operation to the reasonable satisfaction of SP
Manweb in accordance with sub-paragraph (2) to (5) inclusive.

45.2

If, for the purpose of executing any specified works in, on, under or over any
land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to SP
Manweb at least 56 days’ advance written notice of that requirement, together
with a plan of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the
alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in
consequence of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order SP
Manweb reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must,
subject to sub-paragraph (3), secure any necessary consents for the
alternative apparatus and afford to SP Manweb to its satisfaction (taking into
account paragraph 45(1) below) the necessary facilities and rights—

45.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of or land secured
by the undertaker; and

45.2.b

subsequently for the use and maintenance of that apparatus.

45.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of or land secured by the undertaker, or the
undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in
sub-paragraph (2), in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of
such apparatus is to be constructed, SP Manweb must, on receipt of a written
notice to that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use
its best endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the land
in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

45.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such line or situation as may be agreed between SP Manweb and the
undertaker.

45.5

SP Manweb must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed
has been agreed, and subject to the prior grant to SP Manweb of any such
facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph (2) or (3), proceed
without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

45.6

Where there is any inconsistency or duplication between the provisions set out
in this Part of this Schedule relating to the relocation and/or removal of
apparatus/including but not limited to the payment of costs and expenses
relating to such relocation and/or removal of apparatus) and the provisions of
any existing easement, rights, agreements and licences granted, used, enjoyed
or exercised by SP Manweb and/or other enactments relied upon by SP Manweb as
of right or other use in relation to the apparatus, then the provisions in
this Schedule must prevail.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus


46

46.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for SP Manweb facilities and rights in land
for the construction, use, maintenance and protection of alternative apparatus
in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and rights must
be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the
undertaker and SP Manweb and must be no less favourable on the whole to SP
Manweb than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the
apparatus to be removed unless otherwise agreed by SP Manweb.

46.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker and agreed with
SP Manweb under sub-paragraph (1) above in respect of any alternative
apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those facilities and
rights are to be granted, are less favourable on the whole to SP Manweb than
the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be
removed and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are
subject in the matter will be referred to arbitration in accordance with
paragraph 53 of this Part of this Schedule and the arbitrator must make such
provision for the payment of compensation by the undertaker to SP Manweb as
appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the
circumstances of the particular case. In respect of the appointment of an
arbitrator under this sub-paragraph, article 44 (arbitration) applies.

###### Retained apparatus: Protection of SP Manweb as Electricity Undertaker


47

47.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph
45(2), the undertaker must submit to SP Manweb a plan of the works to be
executed and seek from SP Manweb details of the underground extent of their
electricity tower foundations.

47.2

In relation to specified works which will or may be situated on, over, under
or within (i) 15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus, or (ii)
involve embankment works within 15 metres of any apparatus, the plan to be
submitted to SP Manweb under sub-paragraph (1) must include a method statement
which is consistent with the principles set out in the outline method
statement dated 17 October 2022 provided by the undertaker to SP Manweb and
show and describe—

47.2.a

the exact position of the specified works;

47.2.b

the level at which the specified works are proposed to be constructed or
renewed;

47.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal;

47.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

47.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus; and

47.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes.

47.3

In relation to any specified works which will or may be situated on, over,
under or within 10 metres of any part of the foundations of an electricity
supports or between any two or more adjacent electricity supports which are
within the Order limits or within 10 metres of the Order limits, the plan to
be submitted under sub-paragraph (1) must include a method statement which, in
addition to the matters set out in sub-paragraph (2), must—

47.3.a

describe details of any cable trench design including route, dimensions,
clearance to support foundations;

47.3.b

demonstrate that support foundations will not be affected prior to, during and
post construction;

47.3.c

describe load bearing capacities of trench supporting structures;

47.3.d

describe details of cable installation methodology including access
arrangements, jointing bays and backfill methodology;

47.3.e

provide a written management plan for high voltage hazard during construction
and ongoing maintenance of the cable route;

47.3.f

provide written details of the operations and maintenance regime for the
cable, including frequency and method of access;

47.3.g

provide an assessment of earth rise potential if reasonably required by SP
Manweb’s engineers;

47.3.h

provide evidence that trench collapse resistance and supporting structures
bearing capacity are to be designed to 26 tonnes to take the weight of
overhead line construction traffic.

47.4

The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub-paragraph (2) or (3)
applies until SP Manweb has given written approval of the plan so submitted
provided that SP Manweb must not unreasonably delay notification of its
approval or disapproval.

47.5

Any approval of SP Manweb required under sub-paragraph (2)—

47.5.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraphs (6) or (8); and,

47.5.b

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

47.6

If after the expiry of 56 days SP Manweb has not communicated approval or
disapproval, SP Manweb is deemed to have approved the plans as supplied.

47.7

In relation to any work requiring the submission of a plan under sub-paragraph
(1), SP Manweb may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may
be reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage or for the purpose of providing or securing
proper and convenient means of access to any apparatus and SP Manweb must
notify the undertaker of such modifications within a period of 56 days
beginning with the date on which the plan required under sub-paragraph (1) has
been submitted to SP Manweb.

47.8

Works requiring the submission of a plan under sub-paragraph (1) must only be
executed in accordance with the plan as approved or as amended from time to
time by agreement between the undertaker and SP Manweb and in accordance with
such reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs
(5), (7), (9) or (10) by SP Manweb for the alteration or otherwise for the
protection of the apparatus, or for securing access to it, and SP Manweb will
be entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

47.9

Where SP Manweb reasonably requires any protective works to be carried out by
itself or by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such
protective works, inclusive of any measures or schemes required and approved
as part of the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph, must be carried out
to SP Manweb’s reasonable satisfaction prior to the commencement of any
authorised development (or any relevant part thereof) for which protective
works are required and SP Manweb must give 56 days’ notice of such works from
the date of submission of a plan pursuant to sub-paragraph (1) or (7) (except
in an emergency).

47.10

If SP Manweb in accordance with sub-paragraphs (8) or (10) and in consequence
of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the removal of
any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that requirement,
sub-paragraphs (1) to (3) and (7) to (9) apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 45(2).

47.11

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the authorised development, a new plan, instead of the plan
previously submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph must
apply to and in respect of the new plan.

47.12

The undertaker must not be required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it
needs to carry out emergency works as defined in the 1991 Act but in that case
it must give to the SP Manweb notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and
a plan of those works and must—

47.12.a

comply with sub-paragraphs (7), (8) and (9) insofar as is reasonably
practicable in the circumstances; and

47.12.b

comply with sub-paragraph (13) at all times.

47.13

At all times when carrying out any works authorised under the Order, the
undertaker must comply with statutory requirements and guidelines for
development near overhead lines EN43-8 and HSE’s guidance note 6 “ Avoidance
of Danger from Overhead Lines ” in relation to any apparatus and aligning with
SP Manweb guidelines.

###### Expenses


48

48.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must pay
to SP Manweb on demand all reasonable charges, costs and expenses reasonably
incurred by SP Manweb in direct consequence of the execution of any authorised
development including without limitation in respect of—

48.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by SP Manweb in
connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory powers
for such apparatus including without limitation all costs incurred by SP
Manweb as a consequence of SP Manweb;

48.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph 45(3); and/or

48.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers in the Order transferred to or
benefitting SP Manweb;

48.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus;

48.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

48.1.d

the approval of plans;

48.1.e

the carrying out of protective works (including any temporary protective works
and their removal);

48.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule.

48.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule
and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that value
being calculated after removal.

48.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

48.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

48.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article 44 (arbitration) to be necessary, then,
if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part of
this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus
placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the
existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to SP Manweb by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will be
reduced by the amount of that excess.

48.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

48.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

48.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be
necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole
will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.

48.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to SP Manweb in
respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) must, if the works include the
placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7
years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on SP Manweb any financial benefit
by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course,
be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

###### Indemnity


49

49.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works authorised by this Part of this Schedule or in
consequence of the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the
authorised development by or on behalf of the undertaker or in consequence of
any act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by
it) in the course of carrying out such works, including without limitation
works carried out by the undertaker under this Part of this Schedule or any
subsidence resulting from any of these works, any damage is caused to any
apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which
is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes
of the authorised development) or property of SP Manweb, or if there is any
interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods by SP
Manweb, or SP Manweb becomes liable to pay any amount to any third party, the
undertaker must—

49.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim from SP Manweb the
cost reasonably and properly incurred by SP Manweb in making good such damage
or restoring the supply; and

49.1.b

indemnify SP Manweb for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings,
damages, claims, penalties or costs incurred by or recovered from SP Manweb,
by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption or SP Manweb
becoming liable to any third party as aforesaid other than arising from any
default of SP Manweb,

provided that at all times SP Manweb will be under an obligation to take
reasonable steps to mitigate its loss.

49.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by SP Manweb on behalf of
the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by SP Manweb or in
accordance with any requirement of SP Manweb as a consequence of the
authorised development or under its supervision does not (unless sub-paragraph
(3) applies), excuse the undertaker from liability under the provisions of
this paragraph where the undertaker fails to carry out and execute the works
properly with due care and attention and in a skilful and workmanlike manner
or in a manner that does not materially accord with the approved plan (or as
otherwise agreed between the undertaker and SP Manweb pursuant to paragraph
48).

49.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) will impose any liability on the undertaker in
respect of—

49.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of SP Manweb, its officers, employees, contractors or
agents;

49.3.b

any authorised development and/or any other works authorised by this Part of
this Schedule carried out by SP Manweb as an assignee, transferee or lessee of
the undertaker with the benefit of the Order pursuant to section 156 of the
2008 Act or article 6 (benefit of the Order) subject to the proviso that once
such works become apparatus (“new apparatus”), any authorised development yet
to be executed and not falling within this sub-paragraph 38(b) will be subject
to the full terms of this Part of this Schedule including this paragraph in
respect of such new apparatus; and / or

49.3.c

any indirect or consequential loss of any third party (including but not
limited to loss of use, revenue, profit, contract, production, increased cost
of working or business interruption) arising from any such damage or
interruption, which is not reasonably foreseeable.

49.4

SP Manweb must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any claim or demand
and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise or demand, unless
payment is required in connection with a statutory compensation scheme, is to
be made without first consulting the undertaker and considering its
representations.

###### Enactments and agreements


50

Save to the extent provided for to the contrary elsewhere in this Part of this
Schedule or by agreement in writing between SP Manweb and the undertaker,
nothing in this Part of this Schedule will affect the provisions of any
enactment or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and SP
Manweb in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation


51

51.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any of the authorised
development, the undertaker or SP Manweb requires the removal of apparatus
under paragraph 45(2) or SP Manweb makes requirements for the protection or
alteration of apparatus under paragraph 47, the undertaker must use its best
endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the interests of
safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised development
and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient operation of
SP Manweb’s undertaking and SP Manweb must use its best endeavours to co-
operate with the undertaker for that purpose.

51.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever SP Manweb’s consent, agreement or approval
is required in relation to plans, documents or other information submitted by
the undertaker or the taking of action by SP Manweb is required, it must not
be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Access


52

If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 44(1)
or the powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus is
materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative means of
access to such apparatus as will enable SP Manweb to maintain or use the
apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such obstruction.

###### Arbitration


53

Save for differences or disputes arising under paragraphs 45(2), 45(4), 45(1)
and 47 any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and SP Manweb
under this Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and SP Manweb, determined by arbitration in accordance
with article 44 (arbitration).

##### Protection for operators of electronic communications code networks


54

The provisions of this Part have effect unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and the operator in question.

55

In this Part—

“ the 2003 Act ” means the Communications Act 2003 ; “ electronic
communications apparatus ” has the same meaning as in the electronic
communications code; “ the electronic communications code ” has the same
meaning as in section 106  (application of the electronic communications code)
of the 2003 Act; “ electronic communications code network ” means— so much of
an electronic communications network or infrastructure system provided by an
electronic communications code operator as is not excluded from the
application of the electronic communications code by a direction under section
106 of the 2003 Act; and an electronic communications network which the
undertaker is providing or proposing to provide; “ electronic communications
code operator ” means a person in whose case the electronic communications
code is applied by a direction under section 106 of the 2003 Act; “
infrastructure system ” has the same meaning as in the electronic
communications code and references to providing an infrastructure system are
to be construed in accordance with paragraph 7 (infrastructure system) of that
code; and “ operator ” means the operator of an electronic communications code
network.

56

The exercise of the powers conferred by article 29 (statutory undertakers) are
subject to Part 10 (undertaker’s works affecting electronic communications
apparatus) of the electronic communications code.

57

57.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs  (2)  to  (4) , if as a result of the authorised
development or its construction, or of any subsidence resulting from the
authorised development—

57.1.a

any damage is caused to any electronic communications apparatus belonging to
an operator (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably
necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of the authorised
development), or other property of an operator; or

57.1.b

there is any interruption in the supply of the service provided by an
operator,

the undertaker must bear and pay the cost agreed by the undertaker in advance
and reasonably incurred by the operator in making good such damage or
restoring the supply and make reasonable compensation to that operator for any
other expenses, loss, damages, penalty or costs incurred by it by reason, or
in consequence of, any such damage or interruption.

57.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of an operator, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

57.3

The operator must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise of the claim or demand is to be made
without the consent of the undertaker and, if such consent is withheld, the
undertaker has the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any
proceedings necessary to resist the claim or demand.

57.4

Any difference arising between the undertaker and the operator under this Part
must be referred to and settled by arbitration under article 44 (arbitration).

57.5

This Part does not apply to—

57.5.a

any apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and an
operator are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England
and Wales) of the 1991 Act; or

57.5.b

any damage, or any interruption, caused by electro-magnetic interference
arising from the construction or use of the authorised project.

57.6

Nothing in this Part affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between the undertaker and an operator in respect of
any apparatus in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on which this
Order is made.

##### For the protection of Network Rail Infrastructure Limited


58

The provisions of this Part have effect unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and Network Rail and, where paragraph 72 applies, any
other person on whom rights or obligations are conferred by that paragraph.

59

In this Part—

“ asset protection agreement ” means an agreement to regulate the construction
and maintenance of the specified work in a form prescribed from time to time
by Network Rail; “ construction ” includes execution, placing, alteration and
reconstruction and “construct” and “constructed” have corresponding meanings;
“ engineer ” means an engineer appointed by Network Rail for the purposes of
this Order; “ network licence ” means the network licence, as the same is
amended from time to time, granted to Network Rail by the Secretary of State
in exercise of powers under section 8 of the Railways Act 1993 ; “ Network
Rail ” means Network Rail Infrastructure Limited (company number 02904587,
whose registered office is at 1 Eversholt Street, London NW1 2DN) and any
associated company of Network Rail Infrastructure Limited which holds property
for railway purposes, and for the purpose of this definition “ associated
company ” means any company which is (within the meaning of section 1159 of
the Companies Act 2006 ) the holding company of Network Rail Infrastructure
Limited, a subsidiary of Network Rail Infrastructure Limited or another
subsidiary of the holding company of Network Rail Infrastructure Limited; “
plans ” includes sections, designs, design data, software, drawings,
specifications, soil reports, calculations, descriptions (including
descriptions of methods of construction), staging proposals, programmes and
details of the extent, timing and duration of any proposed occupation of
railway property; “ railway operational procedures ” means procedures
specified under any access agreement (as defined in the Railways Act 1993) or
station lease; “ railway property ” means any railway belonging to Network
Rail and— any station, land, works, apparatus and equipment belonging to
Network Rail or connected with any such railway; and any easement or other
property interest held or used by Network Rail for the purposes of such
railway or works, apparatus or equipment; “ regulatory consents ” means any
consent or approval required under: the Railways Act 1993; the network
licence; and/or any other relevant statutory or regulatory provisions; by
either the Office of Rail and Road or the Secretary of State for Transport or
any other competent body including change procedures and any other consents,
approvals of any access or beneficiary that may be required in relation to the
authorised development; “ specified work ” means so much of any of the
authorised development as is or is to be situated upon, across, under, over or
within 15 metres of, or may in any way adversely affect, railway property and
for the avoidance of doubt, includes the maintenance of such works under the
powers conferred by article 5 (power to maintain the authorised development)
in respect of such works.

60

60.1

Where under this Part Network Rail is required to give its consent, agreement
or approval in respect of any matter, that consent, agreement or approval is
subject to the condition that Network Rail complies with any relevant railway
operational procedures and any obligations under its network licence or under
statute.

60.2

In so far as any specified work or the acquisition or use of railway property
is or may be subject to railway operational procedures, Network Rail must—

60.2.a

co-operate with the undertaker with a view to avoiding undue delay and
securing conformity as between any plans approved by the engineer and
requirements emanating from those procedures; and

60.2.b

use its reasonable endeavours to avoid any conflict arising between the
application of those procedures and the proper implementation of the
authorised project under this Order.

61

61.1

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by—

61.1.a

article 3 (development consent granted by the Order);

61.1.b

article 5 (power to maintain the authorised development);

61.1.c

article 14 (discharge of water);

61.1.d

article 15 (authority to survey and investigate the land);

61.1.e

article 18 (compulsory acquisition of land);

61.1.f

article 20 (compulsory acquisition of rights);

61.1.g

article 22 (private rights);

61.1.h

article 24 (acquisition of subsoil only);

61.1.i

article 27 (temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised
development);

61.1.j

article 28 (temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development);

61.1.k

article 29 (statutory undertakers);

61.1.l

article 33 (felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows);

61.1.m

article 34 (trees subject to tree preservation orders);

61.1.n

the powers conferred by section 11(3) (power of entry) of the 1965 Act;

61.1.o

the powers conferred by section 203 (power to override easements and rights)
of the Housing and Planning Act 2016;

61.1.p

the powers conferred by section 172 (right to enter and survey land) of the
Housing and Planning Act 2016;

61.1.q

any powers under in respect of the temporary possession of land under the
Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017;

in respect of any railway property unless the exercise of such powers is with
the consent of Network Rail.

61.2

The undertaker must not in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order
prevent pedestrian or vehicular access to any railway property, unless
preventing such access is with the consent of Network Rail.

61.3

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by sections 271 or 272
of the 1990 Act, article 29 (statutory undertakers) or article 22 (private
rights), in relation to any right of access of Network Rail to railway
property, but such right of access may be diverted with the consent of Network
Rail.

61.4

The undertaker must not under the powers of this Order acquire or use or
acquire new rights over, or seek to impose any restrictive covenants over, any
railway property, or extinguish any existing rights of Network Rail in respect
of any third party property, except with the consent of Network Rail.

61.5

The undertaker must not under the powers of this Order do anything which would
result in railway property being incapable of being used or maintained or
which would affect the safe running of trains on the railway.

61.6

Where Network Rail is asked to give its consent pursuant to this paragraph,
such consent must not be unreasonably withheld but may be given subject to
reasonable conditions but it shall never be unreasonable to withhold consent
for reasons of operational or railway safety (such matters to be in Network
Rail’s absolute discretion).

61.7

The undertaker must enter into an asset protection agreement prior to the
carrying out of any specified work.

62

62.1

The undertaker must before commencing construction of any specified work
supply to Network Rail proper and sufficient plans of that work for the
reasonable approval of the engineer and the specified work must not be
commenced except in accordance with such plans as have been approved in
writing by the engineer or settled by arbitration under article 44
(arbitration).

62.2

The approval of the engineer under sub-paragraph 62 (1) must not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed, and if after 28 days beginning with the date
on which such plans have been supplied to Network Rail the engineer has not
communicated disapproval of those plans and the grounds of disapproval—

62.2.a

the undertaker may serve on the engineer written notice requiring the engineer
to communicate approval or disapproval within a further period of 28 days
beginning with the date on which the engineer receives written notice from the
undertaker; and

62.2.b

if by the expiry of the further 28 days the engineer has not communicated
approval or disapproval, the engineer is deemed to have approved the plans as
supplied.

62.3

If after the expiry of 28 days beginning with the date on which written notice
was served on the engineer under sub-paragraph (1), Network Rail gives notice
to the undertaker that Network Rail desires itself to construct any part of a
specified work which in the opinion of the engineer will or may affect the
stability of railway property or the safe operation of traffic on the railways
of Network Rail then, if the undertaker desires such part of the specified
work to be constructed, Network Rail must construct it without unreasonable
delay on behalf of and to the reasonable satisfaction of the undertaker in
accordance with the plans approved or deemed to be approved or settled under
this paragraph, and under the supervision (where appropriate and if given) of
the undertaker.

62.4

When signifying approval of the plans the engineer may specify any protective
works (whether temporary or permanent) which in the engineer’s reasonable
opinion should be carried out before the commencement of the construction of a
specified work to ensure the safety or stability of railway property or the
continuation of safe and efficient operation of the railways of Network Rail
or the services of operators using the same (including any relocation,
decommissioning and removal of works, apparatus and equipment necessitated by
a specified work and the comfort and safety of passengers who may be affected
by the specified works), and—

62.4.a

such protective works as may be reasonably necessary for those purposes must
be constructed by Network Rail or by the undertaker, if Network Rail so
desires, and such protective works must be carried out at the expense of the
undertaker, in either case without unreasonable delay; and

62.4.b

the undertaker must not commence the construction of the specified works in
question until the engineer has notified the undertaker that the protective
works have been completed to the engineer’s reasonable satisfaction.

63

63.1

Any specified work and any protective works to be constructed by virtue of
paragraph 62(4) must, when commenced, be constructed—

63.1.a

without unnecessary delay in accordance with the plans approved or deemed to
have been approved or settled under paragraph 62;

63.1.b

under the supervision (where appropriate and if given) and to the reasonable
satisfaction of the engineer;

63.1.c

in such manner as to cause as little damage as is possible to railway
property; and

63.1.d

so far as is reasonably practicable, so as not to interfere with or obstruct
the free, uninterrupted and safe use of any railway of Network Rail or the
traffic on it and the use by passengers of railway property.

63.2

If any damage to railway property or any interference or obstruction referred
to in sub-paragraph (1)(d) is caused by the carrying out of, or in consequence
of, the construction of a specified work, the undertaker must, regardless of
any approval, make good such damage and must pay to Network Rail all
reasonable expenses to which Network Rail may be put and compensation for any
loss which it may sustain by reason of any such damage, interference or
obstruction.

63.3

Nothing in this Part imposes any liability on the undertaker with respect to
any damage, costs, expenses or loss attributable to the negligence of Network
Rail or its employees, contractors or agents or any liability on Network Rail
with respect to any damage, costs, expenses or loss attributable to the
negligence of the undertaker or its employees, contractors or agents.

64

The undertaker must—

64.a

at all times afford reasonable facilities to the engineer for access to a
specified work during its construction; and

64.b

supply the engineer with all such information as the engineer may reasonably
require with regard to a specified work or the method of constructing it.

65

Network Rail must at all times afford reasonable facilities to the undertaker
and its employees, contractors or agents for access to any works carried out
by Network Rail under this Part during their construction and must supply the
undertaker with such information as it may reasonably require with regard to
such works or the method of constructing them.

66

66.1

If any permanent or temporary alterations or additions to railway property are
reasonably necessary in consequence of the construction of a specified work or
during a period of 24 months after the completion of that work in order to
ensure the safety of railway property or the continued safe and efficient
operation of the railway of Network Rail, such alterations or additions may be
carried out by Network Rail.

66.2

If Network Rail gives to the undertaker reasonable notice of its intention to
carry out such alterations or additions (which must be specified in the
notice), the undertaker must pay to Network Rail the reasonable cost of those
alterations or additions including, in respect of any such alterations or
additions which have been reasonably incurred by Network Rail, including, in
respect of any such alterations or additions as are to be permanent, a
capitalised sum representing the increase.

66.3

If during the construction of a specified work by the undertaker, Network Rail
gives notice to the undertaker that Network Rail desires itself to construct
that part of the specified work that in the opinion of the engineer is
endangering the stability of railway property or the safe operation of traffic
on the railways of Network Rail then, if the undertaker decides that part of
the specified work is to be constructed, Network Rail must assume construction
of that part of the specified work and the undertaker must, regardless of any
approval of the specified work under paragraph 62(1), pay to Network Rail all
reasonable expenses to which Network Rail may be put and compensation for any
loss which it may suffer by reason of the execution by Network Rail of that
specified work.

66.4

The engineer must, in respect of the capitalised sums referred to in this
paragraph and paragraph 67, provide such details of the formula or method of
calculation by which those sums have been calculated as the undertaker may
reasonably require.

66.5

If the cost of maintaining, working or renewing railway property is reduced in
consequence of any such alterations or additions, a capitalised sum
representing such saving must be set off against any sum payable by the
undertaker to Network Rail under this paragraph.

67

The undertaker must repay to Network Rail all reasonable fees, costs, charges
and expenses agreed in advance with the undertaker and reasonably incurred by
Network Rail—

67.a

in constructing any part of a specified work on behalf of the undertaker under
paragraph 62(3) or in constructing any protective works under paragraph 62(4);

67.b

in respect of the approval by the engineer of plans submitted by the
undertaker and the supervision by the engineer of the construction of a
specified work;

67.c

in respect of the employment or procurement of the services of any inspectors,
signallers, guards and other persons whom it is reasonably necessary to
appoint for inspecting, signalling, watching and lighting railway property and
for preventing, so far as may be reasonably practicable, interference,
obstruction, danger or accident arising from the construction or failure of a
specified work;

67.d

in respect of any special traffic working resulting from any speed
restrictions which may in the reasonable opinion of the engineer, need to be
imposed by reason or in consequence of the construction or failure of a
specified work or from the substitution or diversion of services which may be
reasonably necessary for the same reason; and

67.e

in respect of any additional temporary lighting of railway property in the
vicinity of the specified works, being lighting made reasonably necessary by
reason or in consequence of the construction or failure of a specified work.

68

68.1

In this paragraph—

“ EMI ” means, subject to sub-paragraph (2), electromagnetic interference with
Network Rail apparatus generated by the operation of the authorised
development where such interference is of a level which adversely affects the
safe operation of Network Rail’s apparatus; and “ Network Rail’s apparatus ”
means any lines, circuits, wires, apparatus or equipment (whether or not
modified or installed as part of the authorised development) which are owned
or used by Network Rail for the purpose of transmitting or receiving
electrical energy or of radio, telegraphic, telephonic, electric, electronic
or other like means of signalling or other communications.

68.2

This paragraph applies to EMI only to the extent that such EMI is not
attributable to any change to Network Rail’s apparatus carried out after
approval of plans under paragraph 62(1) for the relevant part of the
authorised development giving rise to EMI (unless the undertaker has been
given notice in writing before the approval of those plans of the intention to
make such change).

68.3

Subject to sub-paragraph (5), the undertaker must in the design and
construction of the authorised development take all measures necessary to
prevent EMI and must establish with Network Rail (both parties acting
reasonably) appropriate arrangements to verify their effectiveness.

68.4

In order to facilitate the undertaker’s compliance with sub-paragraph (3)-

68.4.a

the undertaker must consult with Network Rail as early as reasonably
practicable to identify all Network Rail’s apparatus which may be at risk of
EMI, and thereafter must continue to consult with Network Rail (both before
and after formal submission of plans under paragraph 62(1)) in order to
identify all potential causes of EMI and the measures required to eliminate
them;

68.4.b

Network Rail must make available to the undertaker all information in the
possession of Network Rail reasonably requested by the undertaker in respect
of Network Rail’s apparatus identified pursuant to sub-paragraph (a); and

68.4.c

Network Rail must allow the undertaker reasonable facilities for the
inspection of Network Rail’s apparatus identified pursuant to sub-paragraph
(a).

68.5

In any case where it is established that EMI can only reasonably be prevented
by modifications to Network Rail’s apparatus, Network Rail must not withhold
its consent unreasonably to modifications of Network Rail’s apparatus, but the
means of prevention and the method of their execution must be selected in the
reasonable discretion of Network Rail, and in relation to such modifications
paragraph 62(1) has effect subject to the sub-paragraph.

68.6

Prior to the commencement of operation of the authorised development the
undertaker shall test the use of the authorised development in a manner that
shall first have been agreed with Network Rail and if, notwithstanding any
measures adopted pursuant to sub-paragraph (3), the testing of the authorised
development causes EMI then the undertaker must immediately upon receipt of
notification by Network Rail of such EMI either in writing or communicated
orally (such oral communication to be confirmed in writing as soon as
reasonably practicable after it has been issued) forthwith cease to use (or
procure the cessation of use of) the undertaker’s apparatus causing such EMI
until all measures necessary have been taken to remedy such EMI by way of
modification to the source of such EMI or (in the circumstances, and subject
to the consent, specified in sub-paragraph (5)) to Network Rail’s apparatus.

68.7

In the event of EMI having occurred—

68.7.a

the undertaker must afford reasonable facilities to Network Rail for access to
the undertaker’s apparatus in the investigation of such EMI;

68.7.b

Network Rail must afford reasonable facilities to the undertaker for access to
Network Rail’s apparatus in the investigation of such EMI;

68.7.c

Network Rail must make available to the undertaker any additional material
information in its possession reasonably requested by the undertaker in
respect of Network Rail’s apparatus or such EMI; and

68.7.d

the undertaker must co-operate with Network Rail and take any reasonable
measures promptly to prevent EMI occurring.

68.8

Where Network Rail approves modifications to Network Rail’s apparatus pursuant
to sub-paragraphs (5) or (6)—

68.8.a

Network Rail must allow the undertaker reasonable facilities for the
inspection of the relevant part of Network Rail’s apparatus;

68.8.b

any modifications to Network Rail’s apparatus approved pursuant to those sub-
paragraphs must be carried out and completed by the undertaker in accordance
with paragraph 62.

68.9

To the extent that it would not otherwise do so, the indemnity in paragraph
72(1) applies to the costs and expenses reasonably incurred or losses suffered
by Network Rail through the implementation of the provisions of this paragraph
(including costs incurred in connection with the consideration of proposals,
approval of plans, supervision and inspection of works and facilitating access
to Network Rail’s apparatus) or in consequence of any EMI to which sub-
paragraph (6) applies.

68.10

For the purpose of paragraph 67(a) any modifications to Network Rail’s
apparatus under this paragraph shall be deemed to be protective works referred
to in that paragraph.

68.11

In relation to any dispute arising under this paragraph the reference in
article 44 (Arbitration) to the Institution of Civil Engineers shall be read
as a reference to the Institution of Engineering and Technology.

69

If at any time after the completion of a specified work, not being a work
vested in Network Rail, Network Rail gives notice to the undertaker informing
it that the state of maintenance of any part of the specified work appears to
be such as adversely affects the operation of railway property, the undertaker
must, on receipt of such notice, take such steps as may be reasonably
necessary to put that specified work in such state of maintenance as to not
adversely affect railway property.

70

The undertaker must not provide any illumination or illuminated sign or signal
on or in connection with a specified work in the vicinity of any railway
belonging to Network Rail unless it has first consulted Network Rail and it
must comply with Network Rail’s reasonable requirements for preventing
confusion between such illumination or illuminated sign or signal and any
railway signal or other light used for controlling, directing or securing the
safety of traffic on the railway.

71

Any additional expenses that Network Rail may reasonably incur in altering,
reconstructing or maintaining railway property under any powers existing at
the date on which this Order is made by reason of the existence of a specified
work must, provided that 56 days’ previous notice of the commencement of such
alteration, reconstruction or maintenance has been given to the undertaker, be
paid by the undertaker to Network Rail.

72

72.1

The undertaker must—

72.1.a

pay to Network Rail all reasonable costs, charges, damages and expenses not
otherwise provided for in this Part which may be occasioned to or reasonably
incurred by Network Rail—

72.1.a.i

by reason of the construction or maintenance of a specified work or its
failure; or

72.1.a.ii

by reason of any act or omission of the undertaker or of any person in its
employ or of its contractors or others whilst engaged on a specified work;

72.1.a.iii

by reason of any act or omission of the undertaker or any person in its employ
or of its contractors or others whilst access to or egressing from the
authorised development;

72.1.a.iv

in respect of any damage caused to or additional maintenance required to,
railway property or any such interference or obstruction or delay to the
operation of the railway as a result of access to or egress from the
authorised development by the undertaker or any person in its employ or of its
contractors or others;

72.1.a.v

in respect of costs incurred by Network Rail in complying with any railway
operational procedures or obtaining any regulatory consents which procedures
are required to be followed or consents obtained to facilitate the carrying
out or operation of the authorised development;

and the undertaker must indemnify Network Rail and keep Network Rail
indemnified from and against all claims and demands arising out of or in
connection with a specified work or any such failure, act or omission.

72.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by Network Rail on behalf of
the undertaker or in accordance with plans approved by the engineer or in
accordance with any requirement of the engineer or under the engineer’s
supervision does not (if it was done without negligence on the part of Network
Rail or its employees, contractors or agents) excuse the undertaker from any
liability under this Part.

72.3

Network Rail must give the undertaker reasonable written notice of any claim
or demand made against Network Rail that the undertaker may be liable to pay
under this Part and no settlement or compromise of such a claim or demand is
to be made without the prior written consent of the undertaker.

72.4

The sums payable by the undertaker under sub-paragraph (1) if relevant include
a sum equivalent to the relevant costs.

72.5

Subject to the terms of any agreement between Network Rail and a train
operator regarding the timing or method of payment of the relevant costs in
respect of that train operator, Network Rail must promptly pay to each train
operator the amount of any sums which Network Rail receives under sub-
paragraph (1) which relates to the relevant costs of that train operator.

72.6

The obligation under sub-paragraph  (4)  to pay Network Rail the relevant
costs is, in the event of default, enforceable directly by any train operator
concerned to the extent that such sums would be payable to that train operator
under sub-paragraph  (5) .

72.7

In this paragraph—

“ relevant costs ” means the costs, losses and expenses (including loss of
revenue) reasonably incurred by each train operator as a consequence of any
specified work including but not limited to any restriction of the use of
Network Rail’s railway network as a result of the construction, maintenance or
failure of a specified work or any such act or omission as mentioned in sub-
paragraph (1). “ train operator ” means any person who is authorised to act as
the operator of a train by a licence under section 8 of the Railways Act 1993.

73

Network Rail must, on receipt of a request from the undertaker, provide the
undertaker free of charge with written estimates of the costs, charges,
expenses and other liabilities for which the undertaker is or will become
liable under this Part (including the amount of the relevant costs mentioned
in paragraph 72) and with such information as may enable the undertaker to
assess the reasonableness of any such estimate or claim made or to be made
under this Part (including any claim relating to those relevant costs).

74

In the assessment of any sums payable to Network Rail under this Part there
must not be taken into account any increase in the sums claimed that is
attributable to any action taken by or any agreement entered into by Network
Rail if that action or agreement was not reasonably necessary and was taken or
entered into with a view to obtaining the payment of those sums by the
undertaker under this Part or increasing the sums so payable.

75

The undertaker and Network Rail may, subject in the case of Network Rail to
compliance with the terms of its network licence, enter into, and carry into
effect, agreements for the transfer to the undertaker of—

75.a

any railway property shown on the works plan or the land plans and described
in the book of reference;

75.b

any lands, works or other property held in connection with any such railway
property; and

75.c

any rights and obligations (whether or not statutory) of Network Rail relating
to any railway property or any lands, works or other property referred to in
this paragraph.

76

Nothing in this Order, or in any enactment incorporated with or applied by
this Order, prejudices or affects the operation of Part 1 of the Railways Act
1993.

77

The undertaker must give written notice to Network Rail where any application
is proposed to be made by the undertaker for the Secretary of State’s consent
under article 6 (benefit of the order) and any such notice must be given no
later than 28 days before any such application is made and must describe or
give (as appropriate)—

77.a

the nature of the application to be made;

77.b

the extent of the geographical area to which the application relates; and

77.c

the name and address of the person acting for the Secretary of State to whom
the application is to be made.

78

The undertaker must, no later than 28 days from the date that the documents
referred to in article 40 (certification of plans etc.) are certified by the
Secretary of State, provide a set of those documents to Network Rail in an
electronic format.

##### For the protection of Rhyl Flats Wind Farm Limited


###### Application


79

The provisions of this Part apply for the protection of the Company unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the Company.

###### Interpretation


80

In this Part—

“ apparatus ” means the cables, anchors, moorings, vessels, stabilisation
systems, structures or other infrastructure owned, occupied or maintained by
the Company or its successor in title within the Rhyl Flats Lease Area; “
Company ” means Rhyl Flats Wind Farm Limited (company number 05485961) whose
registered office is at Windmill Hill Business Park, Whitehill Way, Swindon,
Wiltshire, SN5 6PB; “ construction ” includes execution, placing and relaying,
and “ construct ” and “ constructed ” must be construed accordingly; “ method
statement ” means a written statement setting out the methodology for
implementation of the specified works including— construction methods and
programmes; vessel handling and positioning systems; trenching/cable burial
details; scour protection and mattress laying; securing access by the Company
to apparatus throughout the duration of the specified works (subject to
paragraph 84 of this Part); such further particulars available to it that the
Company may reasonably require; “ plans ” includes sections, drawings,
calculations and details of the specified works including the extent, timing
and duration of any proposed occupation of the Rhyl Flats Restriction Zone; “
Rhyl Flats Restriction Zone ” means the 250m restriction zone around the
perimeter of the Rhyl Flats Lease Area; “ Rhyl Flats Lease Area ” means the
land leased by the Crown Estate Commissioners to the Company for the operation
of the Rhyl Flats Offshore Wind Farm; “ Rhyl Flats Offshore Wind Farm ” means
the offshore wind farm operated by the Company within the Rhyl Flats Lease
Area; “ specified works ” means works for the construction, maintenance or
replacement of so much of Work No. 2 as is within 250 metres of the perimeter
of the Rhyl Flats Lease Area, including survey works.

###### Consent for specified works


81

Where conditions are included in any consent granted by the Company pursuant
to this Part, the undertaker must comply with the conditions if it chooses to
implement or rely on the consent, unless the conditions are waived or varied
in writing by the Company.

82

82.1

The undertaker must not under the powers of this Order carry out any specified
works without the consent of the Company, which must not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed but which may be made subject to reasonable conditions
(including in relation to co-ordination of works between the undertaker and
the Company) and if the Company does not respond within 56 days then consent
is deemed to be given.

82.2

Any application for consent pursuant to sub-paragraph (1) must be accompanied
by—

82.2.a

plans of the specified works;

82.2.b

a method statement;

82.2.c

such further particulars available to the undertaker that the Company may
reasonably require.

82.3

Any approval of the Company required under this paragraph may be made subject
to such reasonable conditions as may be required for the protection of any
apparatus or for the alteration of any apparatus required as a direct
consequence of the specified works or for securing access to any apparatus.

82.4

Where the Company requires any protective works to be carried out either by
themselves or by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature)
such protective works must be carried out to the Company’s reasonable
satisfaction.

82.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of any specified works, new plans or a revised method statement
instead of the plans or method statement previously submitted, and the
provisions of this paragraph shall apply to and in respect of the new plans or
method statement.

82.6

The specified works must be carried out in accordance with the consent given,
or deemed to be given, in terms of sub-paragraph (1).

83

83.1

The undertaker must give to the Company not less than 28 days’ written notice
of its intention to commence the undertaking of the specified works and, not
more than 14 days after completion of their implementation, must give the
Company written notice of the completion.

83.2

The undertaker is not required to comply with paragraph 82 or sub-paragraph
(1) in a case of emergency, but in that case it must give to the Company
notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan, sections and
description of those works as soon as reasonable practicable subsequently and
must comply with paragraph 82 in so far as is reasonably practicable in the
circumstances.

83.3

The Company is entitled to have not more than two representatives present
while any specified works are being carried out by the undertaker and the
following provisions shall apply to such representatives—

83.3.a

any representatives must be suitably qualified and must comply with the Marine
Labour Convention (2006) standards, guidelines and regulations;

83.3.b

the representatives may be located on any vessel carrying out specified works
and must have full and free access at all times to all activities related to
the specified works;

83.3.c

the undertaker must afford the representatives its full cooperation in the
execution of the representatives’ duties; and

83.3.d

the representatives’ only function is to safeguard the interests of the
Company and they shall have no duty to ensure or procure the doing of anything
for the benefit of the undertaker or to prevent anything which may be to the
detriment of the undertaker, provided however that the representatives must
act in good faith at all times.

84

84.1

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by this Order to prevent
or interfere with the access by the Company to any apparatus unless agreed
with the Company and in accordance with any reasonable conditions which may be
required by the Company or where required by law or for health and safety
reasons.

84.2

The undertaker must give to the Company not less than 28 days’ written notice
of its intention to exercise powers which will prevent or interfere with the
access by the Company to any apparatus.

85

To ensure its compliance with this Part, the undertaker must before carrying
out any specified works and at the undertaker’s own cost, carry out all
surveys reasonably necessary to confirm the actual position of apparatus
unless otherwise agreed with the Company in writing, such agreement not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed. The Company shall provide on request any
reasonable assistance required from the Company of the location of any
apparatus.

86

The undertaker and the Company must each act in good faith and use reasonable
endeavours to co-operate with, and provide assistance to, each other as may be
required to give effect to the provisions of this Part.

###### Expenses


87

87.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must pay
to the Company on demand all reasonable charges, costs and expenses reasonably
incurred by the Company direct consequence of the execution of any specified
works including without limitation in respect of—

87.1.a

the approval of plans and method statements;

87.1.b

the carrying out of protective works (including any temporary protective works
and their removal);

87.1.c

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
any specified works or the installation or removal of any temporary works
reasonably necessary in consequence of the execution of any such specified
works referred to in this Part of this Schedule; and

87.1.d

any additional costs incurred in the decommissioning of Rhyl Flats Offshore
Wind Farm as a result of the specified works.

###### Indemnity


88

88.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
carrying out of any specified works authorised by this Part or in consequence
of the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the authorised
development within 250 metres of the perimeter of the Rhyl Flats Lease Area by
or on behalf of the undertaker or in consequence of any act or default of the
undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by it) in the course of
carrying out any specified works (including without limitation specified works
carried out by the undertaker under this Part), there is any subsidence
resulting from any of these specified works, or any damage is caused to any
apparatus or property of the Company, or as consequence of the specified
works, there is any interruption or reduction in any electricity generated by
the Company, or the Company becomes liable to pay any amount to any third
party, the undertaker will—

88.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim from the Company the
cost reasonably and properly incurred by the Company in making good such
damage or restoring the supply; and

88.1.b

indemnify the Company for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings,
damages, claims, penalty or costs reasonably and properly incurred by or
recovered from the Company, by reason or in consequence of any such damage or
interruption or the Company becoming liable to any third party as aforesaid
other than arising from any default by the Company,

provided that at all times the Company will be under an obligation to take
reasonable steps to mitigate its loss.

88.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by the Company on behalf of
the undertaker or in accordance with a plan or method statement approved by
the Company or in accordance with any requirement of the Company as a
consequence of the carrying out of any specified works or under its
supervision does not (unless sub-paragraph (3) applies), excuse the undertaker
from liability under the provisions of this paragraph unless the Company fails
to carry out and execute the works properly with due care and attention and in
a skilful and workmanlike manner or in a manner that does not materially
accord with the approved plan or as otherwise agreed between the undertaker
and the Company.

88.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) will impose any liability on the undertaker in
respect of—

88.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of the Company, its officers, employees, contractors or
agents;

88.3.b

any indirect or consequential loss of any third party (including but not
limited to loss of use, revenue, profit, contract, production, increased cost
of working or business interruption) arising from any such damage or
interruption, which is not reasonably foreseeable.

88.4

The Company must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any claim or demand
and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise or demand, unless
payment is required in connection with a statutory compensation scheme, is to
be made without first consulting the undertaker and considering its
representation.

88.5

The Company must, in respect of any matter covered by the indemnity given by
the undertaker in this paragraph, at all times act reasonably and in the same
manner as it would as if settling third party claims on its own behalf from
its own funds.

###### Arbitration


89

Any dispute arising between the undertaker and the Company under this Part
must be determined by arbitration under article 44 (arbitration).

##### For the protection of Conwy County Borough Council


90

The provisions of this Part have effect unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and Conwy County Borough Council.

91

In this Part—

“ OPNMP ” means Offshore Piling Noise Monitoring Plan, being the plan prepared
by the undertaker in accordance with the Outline OPNMP and approved by Conwy
County Borough Council under this Part. “ Conwy County Borough Council ” means
a local authority having its principal offices at Bodlondeb, Bangor Road,
Conwy LL32 8DU, and any successor in function as local authority under Part 3
of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 for area of Conwy. “Outline offshore
piling noise monitoring plan” or “ outline OPNMP ” means the document
certified as such by the Secretary of State under article 40 for the purposes
of this Order.

92

92.1

Prior to the commencement of any offshore piling as part of the authorised
development the undertaker must submit to, and have approved in writing by
Conwy County Borough Council, an OPNMP.

92.2

The OPNMP submitted and approved under sub-paragraph (1) must be in accordance
with the outline OPNMP.

93

93.1

The undertaker may, at any time following approval of an OPNMP under paragraph
92, submit to Conwy County Borough Council for approval a revised OPNMP.

93.2

Any revised OPNMP submitted and approved under sub-paragraph (1) must be in
accordance with the outline OPNMP.

93.3

Any revised OPNMP will not take effect unless and until approved in writing by
Conwy County Borough Council.

93.4

On the date upon which a revised OPNMP is approved under this paragraph, any
other OPNMP previously approved will cease to have effect.

94

The authorised development must be carried out in accordance with the OPNMP
approved under paragraph 92 or a revised OPNMP approved under paragraph 93.

95

The undertaker will give Conwy County Borough Council not less than 7 working
days’ notice of the anticipated start date for offshore piling works forming
part of the authorised development.

96

Nothing in any OPNMP may conflict with requirement 4 of Schedule 2 of this
Order.

97

Any approval required under this Part must not be unreasonably withheld or
delayed.

98

Any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and Conwy County
Borough Council under this Part must, unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and Conwy County Borough Council, be determined by
arbitration in accordance with article 44 (arbitration).

##### For the protection of Wales and West Utilities


99

For the protection of Wales and West Utilities as referred to in this part of
this Schedule the provisions of this Part have effect unless otherwise agreed
in writing between the undertaker and Wales and West Utilities Limited.

100

In this Part—

“ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable Wales
and West Utilities to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner no less
efficient than previously; “ apparatus ” means any mains, pipes or other
apparatus belonging to or maintained by Wales and West Utilities for the
purposes of gas supply; including any structure in which apparatus is or is to
be lodged or which will give access to apparatus; “ authorised development ”
has the same meaning as in article 2 (interpretation) of this Order and
(unless otherwise specified) for the purposes of this Schedule shall include
associated development and the use and maintenance of the authorised
development; “ functions ” includes powers and duties; “in” in a context
referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference
to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land; “ plan ”
includes all designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil
reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that
are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe the works to be
executed; “ security infrastructure ” includes cameras, perimeter fencing,
fencing and gates and any other security measures required in order to ensure
an appropriate level of security in respect of the authorised development or
any apparatus; “ specified work ” means so much of any of the works comprised
in the authorised development or activities undertaken in association with the
authorised development which: are in, on or under any land purchased, leased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order that are near to, or will or may
affect, any apparatus the removal of which is not required under paragraph 104
of this Schedule; and/or will or may be situated within 4 metres measured in
any direction of any security infrastructure belonging to or maintained by
Wales and West Utilities; “ Wales and West Utilities ” means Wales and West
Utilities Limited (Company No. 05046791) whose registered office is at Wales &
West House, Spooner Close Coedkernew, Newport, South Wales, NP10 8FZ.

###### On street apparatus and offshore works


101

This Part does not apply to—

101.a

apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and Wales
and West Utilities are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 (street works in
England and Wales) of the 1991 Act; and

101.b

the offshore works.

###### Apparatus in streets subject to temporary restriction


102

Regardless of the temporary restriction of use of streets under the powers
conferred by article 12 (temporary restriction of use of streets), Wales and
West Utilities is at liberty at all times to take all necessary access across
any such street and to execute and do all such works and things in, upon or
under any such street as may be reasonably necessary or desirable to enable it
to maintain any apparatus which at the time of the restriction was in that
street.

###### Acquisition of land


103

Regardless of any provision of this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement of
Wales and West Utilities.

###### Removal of apparatus


104

104.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or over
which access to any apparatus is enjoyed or requires that Wales and West
Utilities’ apparatus is relocated or diverted, that apparatus must not be
removed under this Part, and any right of a utility undertaker to maintain
that apparatus in that land and to gain access to it must not be extinguished
until alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in operation to the
reasonable satisfaction of Wales and West Utilities.

104.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
leased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires
the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, the undertaker must give
Wales and West Utilities at least 28 days’ written notice of that requirement,
together with a plan and section of the work proposed, and of the proposed
position of the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed; and in
that case (or if in consequence of the exercise of any of the powers conferred
by this Order Wales and West Utilities reasonably needs to remove any of its
apparatus) the undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph (4), afford to Wales
and West Utilities the necessary facilities and rights for the construction of
alternative apparatus in other land of the undertaker and subsequently for the
maintenance of that apparatus.

104.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) in the
land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed, Wales and West Utilities must, on receipt of a written notice to
that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use reasonable
endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the land in which
the alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

104.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part must be constructed in such manner and in such line or situation as
may be agreed between Wales and West Utilities and the undertaker or in
default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article 44
(arbitration).

104.5

Wales and West Utilities must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided
or constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in accordance with
article 44 (arbitration), and after the grant to Wales and West Utilities of
any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph (2) or (3),
proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus


105

105.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part, the undertaker affords
to Wales and West Utilities facilities and rights for the construction and
maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative apparatus in substitution
for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and rights must be granted upon
such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the undertaker and Wales
and West Utilities or in default of agreement settled by arbitration in
accordance with article 44 (arbitration).

105.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to Wales and West Utilities than the facilities
and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and the
terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject, the
arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to Wales and West Utilities as appears to the arbitrator to be
reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus


106

106.1

Not less than 42 days before starting the execution of any specified works in,
on or under any land purchased, held, leased, appropriated or used under this
Order that are near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus the removal of
which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph 104(2), the
undertaker must submit to Wales and West Utilities a plan, section and
description of the works to be executed.

106.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan, section and
description submitted under sub-paragraph (1) and in accordance with such
reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) by
Wales and West Utilities for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of
the apparatus, or for securing access to it, and Wales and West Utilities is
entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

106.3

Any requirements made by Wales and West Utilities under sub-paragraph (2) must
be made within a period of 42 days beginning with the date on which a plan,
section and description under sub-paragraph (1) is submitted to it.

106.4

If Wales and West Utilities, in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, the provisions of this Part apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 104(2).

106.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan instead of the plan, section and
description previously submitted, and having done so the provisions of this
paragraph apply to and in respect of the new plan, section and description.

106.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) in a case of
emergency but in that case it must give to Wales and West Utilities notice as
soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan, section and description of those
works as soon as reasonably practicable subsequently and must comply with sub-
paragraph (2) in so far as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

###### Expenses and costs


107

107.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to Wales and West Utilities the reasonable expenses reasonably incurred
by Wales and West Utilities in, or in connection with, the inspection,
removal, alteration or protection of any apparatus or security infrastructure
or the construction of any new apparatus or security infrastructure which may
be required in consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred
to in paragraph 104(2) or any specified work.

107.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule
and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that value
being calculated after removal.

107.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule and
provided that the change is not required by industry standard guidance or
legislation—

107.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

107.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article 44 (arbitration) to be necessary, then,
if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part of
this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus
placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the
existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to Wales and West Utilities by virtue of sub-
paragraph (1) will be reduced by the amount of that excess.

108

108.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2) and (3) if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works referred to in paragraph 104(2) or any
specified work any damage is caused to any apparatus (other than apparatus the
repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal
for the purposes of those works) or property of Wales and West Utilities, or
there is any interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any
goods, by Wales and West Utilities, the undertaker must—

108.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by Wales and West Utilities in
making good such damage or restoring the supply; and

108.1.b

make reasonable compensation to Wales and West Utilities for any other
expenses, loss, damages, penalty or costs incurred by Wales and West
Utilities,

by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption.

108.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of Wales and West Utilities, its officers,
servants, contractors or agents.

108.3

Wales and West Utilities must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any
claim or demand and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise or
demand must be made, unless payment is required in connection with a statutory
compensation scheme, without first consulting the undertaker and considering
its representations.

###### Enactments and agreements


109

Nothing in this Part affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between the undertaker and Wales and West Utilities
in respect of any apparatus in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on
which this Order is made.

##### For the protection of Welsh Ministers as Strategic Highway Authority


###### Application


110

The provisions of this Part have effect for the protection of the Welsh
Ministers (“the WM”) as the Highway Authority for the A55, in addition to all
other applicable statutory protections, unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and the WM.

###### Interpretation


111

In this Part—

“ strategic highway ” means any part of the highway network including trunk
roads or special roads which the WM are responsible for; “ NMWTRA ” means the
North and Mid Wales Trunk Road Agency, who act as the highway agents of the WM
and exercise functions relating to the management and operation of the
relevant part of the strategic highway on behalf of the WM pursuant to an
agreement between the WM and Gwynedd Council under section 6 of the Highways
Act 1980. In practice therefore, the procedural matters contained in this Part
will be dealt with by NMWTRA on behalf of the WM; and “ works ” means— that
part of Work No. 23 which requires the trenchless installation of the cable
under the A55 highway; or any other work forming part of the authorised
development within or which affects or requires occupation of the strategic
highway.

###### Approvals


112

The crossing of the A55 and its associated assets must only be carried out by
trenchless techniques.

113

113.1

Prior to the commencement of the works the undertaker must obtain the written
approval of the WM to such works.

113.2

When requesting approval under sub-paragraph (1), the undertaker must submit
to the WM:

113.2.a

Copy of location plan to a scale not less than 1/10,000 showing the location
and/or proposed route and siting of the works;

113.2.b

Details of the methodology of the works;

113.2.c

Details of the proposed timing of the works;

113.2.d

Details of any traffic management measures (including signage) proposed in
connection with the works; and

113.2.e

Where approval is sought for works to or within the carriageway of a strategic
highway, evidence of NHSS (National Highways Sector Scheme) certification and
Street Works Qualifications.

114

No crossing is to take place until a monitoring regime and the Geotechnical
Design Report (GDR as defined by the DMRB CD622 Managing Geotechnical Risk) is
agreed and certified by the WM.

115

Approval under this Part may be sought in one or more applications.

116

Any approval of the WM under this Part may be given subject to such reasonable
requirements or conditions as the WM may determine.

117

The undertaker must contact any owners or operators of apparatus in, on, over,
under or near the strategic highway including other statutory undertakers to
ascertain whether their existing or proposed apparatus to within or under the
strategic highway is likely to be affected by the works. The undertaker must
comply with the requirements and conditions imposed by the owners or operators
relating to the protection of existing apparatus in, on, over, under or near
the strategic highway likely to be affected by the works.

118

The undertaker must pay a fee of £250 to the WM with any application for
approval under this Part.

###### Indemnity


119

The undertaker indemnifies the WM against any and all claims in respect of
injury, damage or loss arising out of—

119.a

the placing or presence in the strategic highway of apparatus as part of the
works; or

119.b

the excavation by any person of any works within the strategic highway.

120

The undertaker (or any person carrying out works on its behalf) must have and
maintain in force for the duration of any works to or within the strategic
highway network, public liability/third party insurance to the sum of £10
million covering its liability under paragraph 119. The undertaker must
provide evidence of such insurance to the WM if requested.

###### Traffic management


121

The undertaker must contact the NMWTRA, the WM RA Control Room, North Wales
Traffic Management Centre, Ffordd Sam Parri, Morfa, Conwy, LL32 8HH –
Telephone number 01492 564790 before erecting or removal of traffic management
measures on the strategic highway on each occasion that erection or removal is
required.

122

The undertaker must execute the works in strict accordance with the
requirements contained in Chapter 8 of the Traffic Signs Manual (2009) as
published by Her Majesty’s Stationery Office HMSO and any amendments thereof.

###### Inspections


123

The WM or any person authorised by them for this purpose is entitled to
inspect any works to, within or under the strategic highway while such works
are being carried out and following completion of such works.

124

Exercise of the right to inspect under paragraph 123 must be carried out
reasonably, in compliance with any requirements of any health and safety
requirements in place within the site of any works, and in accordance with the
instructions of the undertaker.

125

If required by the WM, the undertaker must provide link boxes (on land outside
the limits of the highway) for the purpose of inspecting and maintaining the
apparatus under the highway.

126

126.1

The undertaker must compensate the WM in respect of any loss, damage, charge,
cost or expense suffered or incurred by the WM as a result of the execution,
use or maintenance of the works.

126.2

Nothing sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with respect
of any damage to the extent that it is attributable to the act, neglect or
default of WM, its officers, employees, contractors or agents.

###### Reinstatement


127

Any reinstatement of the strategic highway required in connection with or as a
consequence of the works must be carried out in strict conformity with the
Code of Practice “Specification for the Reinstatement of Openings in
Highways”.

128

128.1

Where, in the reasonable opinion of the WM, any reinstatement carried out by
the undertaker is defective, three defect inspections will be carried out
comprising:

128.1.a

A joint inspection by the WM and the undertaker to determine the nature of the
failure and what remedial works need to be carried out;

128.1.b

Inspection by or on behalf of the WM of remedial works in progress; and

128.1.c

Inspection by or on behalf of the WM when remedial works have been completed.

128.2

The undertaker must pay an inspection fee of £47.50 for each inspection
carried out under this paragraph.

129

Any and all costs associated with the reinstatement work will be met by the
undertaker.

###### Notice of completion of Works


130

The undertaker must notify the WM of the completion of works approved by the
WM under this Part within 10 working days of such completion.

131

The undertaker must supply the WM with as built records of any apparatus sited
within or under the strategic highway within 10 working days of the completion
of works, including, in particular, the location and depth of any electrical
cables on a plan to a scale of 1/500 with a longitudinal and vertical accuracy
of + or - 100mm.

132

The undertaker must submit a Geotechnical Feedback Report (GFR as defined in
the DMRB CD622 Managing Geotechnical Risk) including all monitoring results
and as built drawings to the WM no later than six months from the date of
completion.

133

After the apparatus has been placed, the undertaker must not carry out any
further works or maintenance to the apparatus or works or any other works
involving excavation within the boundaries of the strategic highway without
the prior written approval of the WM, and any such works must be carried out
and completed to the satisfaction of WM.

###### Arbitration


134

Any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and the WM under this
Part must, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the
WM, be determined by arbitration in accordance with article 44 (arbitration).

###### Notices


135

The plans submitted to the WM by the undertaker pursuant to this Part must be
submitted to North & Mid Wales Trunk Road Agent, Unit 5 Llys Britannia, Parc
Menai, Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57 4BN and  streetworks@nmwtra.org.uk  or such other
address as the WM may from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and
notify to the undertaker in writing.

###### Cease of Use or Abandonment


136

If the undertaker proposes to cease using or abandon the apparatus prior to
the decommissioning of the onshore works or to part with his interest in the
apparatus, the undertaker must give the WM at least 6 weeks’ notice before
doing so.

137

If the apparatus is abandoned or the consent is surrendered prior to the
decommissioning of the onshore works, the WM may remove the apparatus or alter
it in such a manner as they think fit and reinstate the street and may recover
from the undertaker the expenses incurred in so doing, except that if the WM
is satisfied that the undertaker can within such reasonable time as the WM
specify, remove the apparatus or alter it in such manner as the WM require and
reinstate the street, the WM may authorise the undertaker to do so at his own
expense.

138

If the undertaker proposes to part with his interest in the apparatus, he must
before doing so, give notice to the WM stating to whom the benefit of the
consent is to be transferred. The consent must be registered against the
street in which the apparatus is installed so that the consent and
responsibility transfers to the new owner(s) of the apparatus.

###### Maintenance


139

The undertaker must maintain the apparatus in a good state of repair and
condition. The undertaker must if required place and maintain within the
limits of the said highway suitable permanent signs of a type and in positions
to be approved by the WM for the purpose of indicating as nearly as possible
the exact position under the highway in which the said apparatus is laid.

##### For the protection of North Hoyle Wind Farm Limited


###### Application


140

The provisions of this Part have effect unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and North Hoyle Wind Farm Limited.

###### Interpretation


141

In this part—

“ Company ” means North Hoyle Wind Farm Limited (company number 02904841)
whose registered address is at 5th Floor, 20 Fenchurch Street. London,
England, EC3M 3BY; “ Company cables ” means the export cables leading from
North Hoyle wind farm to their onshore grid connection; “ crossing points ”
means the points at which the Company cables and the undertaker cables cross
each other; “ force majeure event ” means any cause beyond the reasonable
control of the undertaker, and which the undertaker by the exercise of
reasonable diligence is unable to prevent, avoid or remove, and in relation to
which the undertaker has exercised and is exercising the standard of a
reasonable and prudent operator provided that a lack of funds does not
constitute a force majeure event; “ method statement ” means such designs,
details and procedures for performance of the specified work as are sufficient
to enable the Company (acting reasonably) to satisfy itself as to the safety
and security of the Company cables and the technical adequacy of the specified
work, such designs, details and procedures must as a minimum include—
construction methods and programmes; vessel handling and positioning systems;
stabilisation details; details of the vertical and horizontal separation
between the Company cables and the undertaker cables; details of the proposed
protection measures for the Company cables and provision of such protective
works (whether temporary or permanent) as the Company may reasonably require
for the safety and operation of the Company cables; the proposed timetable for
the work; location, layout and profile of the crossing of the Company cables
by the undertaker cables; specification of the installation equipment;
inspection and safety methods; and trenching/cable burial details; “ North
Hoyle wind farm ” means the offshore wind farm operated by the Company to the
north east of Work No. 2, the location of which is shown on Sheet No. 2 of the
works plans; “ specified work ” means works for the construction of so much of
Work No. 2 as is within 250 metres of the Company cables or any operation
required to re-lay, maintain, renew or remove the undertaker cables within 250
metres of the Company cables if such work becomes necessary for any reason,
including survey works (other than survey works that do not involve physical
interaction with the seabed); “ standard of a reasonable and prudent operator
” means seeking in good faith to perform its contractual obligations, and in
so doing and in the general conduct of its undertaking, exercising that degree
of skill, diligence, prudence and foresight which would reasonably and
ordinarily be expected from a skilled and experienced operator engaged in the
same type of undertaking under the same or similar circumstances and complying
with applicable law; and “ undertaker cables ” means the subsea cable circuits
to be installed by the undertaker as part of Work No. 2.

###### Requirement for approval of method statement and surveys


142

The undertaker must at least 3 months before commencing construction of any
specified work supply to the Company a method statement for the reasonable
approval of the Company and the specified work must not be commenced or
undertaken except in accordance with such method statement as has been
approved in writing by the Company, such approval not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed, settled by arbitration under article 44 (arbitration) or
as may be agreed to be varied from time to time, such agreement not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed.

143

If by the expiry of 28 days, beginning on the date on which the method
statement was supplied to the Company under paragraph 142, the Company has not
communicated approval or disapproval, the Company is deemed to have approved
the method statement as supplied.

144

The undertaker must, at its own cost, carry out all surveys reasonably
necessary to confirm the actual position of the Company cables prior to the
commencement of any specified work unless otherwise agreed with the Company in
writing, such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed provided
that—

144.a

The Company must provide on request, any reasonable assistance in locating the
Company cables which must include provision of any as-laid/post-installation
survey data relating to the Company cables in the possession and/or control of
the Company; and

144.b

If, following the provision of such reasonable assistance, the position of the
Company cables has not been identified by the undertaker, the Company and the
undertaker must discuss and use all reasonable endeavours to agree upon a
suitable method for carrying out the specified work.

145

In granting its approval (or deemed approval) of the method statement the
Company is not under any duty to ensure the accuracy, correctness or
completeness of the method statement. Approval (or deemed approval) of the
method statement by the Company does not release the undertaker from any
obligation or liability and is not as between the undertaker and the Company
capable of amounting to negligence or contributory negligence on the part of
the Company in the event of any claim or proceedings arising out of or in
connection with the specified work unless the loss, damage or expense giving
rise to such claim or proceeding is caused by the neglect or default of the
Company, its officers, employees, contractors or agents.

146

The undertaker must use all reasonable endeavours to ensure the route of the
undertaker cables is designed to cross the Company cables at a horizontal
angle which is as close as possible to a right angle as is practicable having
due regard to other route requirements.

###### Requirement for notification of start of works


147

147.1

The undertaker must give the Company no less than 15 working days’ written
notice of its intention to carry out any specified work providing—

147.1.a

the nature of the specified work; and

147.1.b

the anticipated dates of commencement and completion of the specified work.

147.2

In the event of the specified work not being commenced within 15 working days
of the anticipated date of commencement as notified by the undertaker pursuant
to sub-paragraph (1) the undertaker must re-notify the information referred to
in sub-paragraph (1).

###### Carrying out of works


148

The undertaker must allow the Company all access to the Company cables as may
be reasonably required by the Company for the purposes of maintenance when
carrying out any specified work.

149

The undertaker must ensure that the specified work are carried out with all
reasonable skill and care, in accordance with all relevant statutory
obligations and in accordance   with the method statement for the specified
works approved in accordance with paragraph 142 or deemed approved under
paragraph 143 or such alternative designs, details and procedures which the
undertaker may propose and the Company may accept from time to time at its
sole discretion.

150

Any contractor and/or subcontractor used by the undertaker for the purpose of
the specified work must be suitably qualified and experienced in carrying out
the type of work for which it is engaged. The undertaker must take and procure
that its contractors and/or subcontractors take all such measures as ought
reasonably to be taken in accordance with the standard of a reasonable and
prudent operator to avoid the risk of damage to the Company cables.

151

Either during the installation or as soon as practicable after the
installation of the undertaker cables, the crossing points must be inspected
by the undertaker or on its behalf, at the undertaker’s expense, by means of a
remotely operated vehicle or by divers or such other method reasonably agreed
by the Company,   to ascertain that the undertaker cables and the Company
cables have the agreed vertical separation distance at the crossing points in
accordance with the method statement approved in accordance with paragraph 142
or deemed approved under paragraph 143. In the event that the undertaker
cables and the Company cables have not been adequately vertically separated
then the undertaker shall consult with the Company to determine the most
appropriate course of action and the undertaker shall, at its own expense then
rectify the situation to provide such vertical separation . In the event that
the undertaker cables and the Company cables have been adequately vertically
separated then the undertaker must consult with the Company to determine the
most appropriate course of action and the undertaker must, at its own expense
then rectify the situation to provide such vertical separation.

152

The undertaker must provide the Company with the actual as-laid route of the
undertaker cables in the vicinity of the Company cables by—

152.a

provision of co-ordinates of the crossing points within 48 hours after
completion of installation of the undertaker cables within a 250 metre radius
from the crossing points; and

152.b

provision of charted information of the crossing points as soon as practicable
after the completion of the installation of the undertaker cables.

153

The undertaker must ensure that the risk of dropped object, anchoring,
grounding, vessel drift-off, impact from jack-up legs etc. is to be adequately
assessed and precautions taken to minimise such risks as far as reasonably
possible.

###### Future specified work


154

Following the installation of the undertaker cables, the undertaker must use
all reasonable endeavours to consult the Company in good faith regarding any
future specified work which may be required to the undertaker cables. The
undertaker and Company must work together to accommodate any such future
specified work if this is required and must use all reasonable endeavours to
agree the timings and methods for any future specified work to be undertaken,
such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed by the Company.

155

  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 154 , if any future specified
work is required which is of an urgent or emergency nature, the Company and
the undertaker must use all reasonable endeavours to undertake such work in an
expeditious manner and must work together in good faith to enable such future
specified work to be undertaken as required and the undertaker must give the
Company as much written notice as is reasonably possible in light of the
emergency or urgency before undertaking such future specified work (including
all relevant details of the proposed future specified work).

156

  Subject to paragraphs 154 and 155 , where the undertaker requires to carry
out any future specified work then the undertaker must—

156.a

provide the Company with not less than 1 calendar month notification of its
intention to carry out any such future specified work;

156.b

provide the Company with all such reasonable information concerning the future
specified work and the procedures for the conduct of the future specified work
as the Company may reasonably require and   the provisions of paragraphs 142
to 153 shall apply to any such future specified work mutatis mutandis except
that—

156.b.i

the time period for providing a method statement under paragraph 142 must be 1
calendar month prior to the commencement of (ii)-the future specified work;

156.b.ii

the time period for approving a method statement under paragraph 143 must be
15 working days;

156.b.iii

the time period for advising the anticipated dates of commencement and
completion of the future specified work under paragraph 147 must be 10 working
days.

###### Works on Company cables


157

157.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), the Company is entitled, at the
Company’s expense, to carry out any operation required to re-lay, maintain,
renew or remove the Company cables within 250 metres of the undertaker cables
if such work becomes necessary for any reason.

157.2

  When the Company proposes to undertake work under sub-paragraph (1) they
must follow the procedure set out in paragraphs 154 to 156 which applies with
the following modifications to the relevant paragraphs and defined terms —

157.2.a

the references to the “ the undertaker ” must be read as references to “the
Company”;

157.2.b

the references to “the Company” must be read as references to “the
undertaker”; and

157.2.c

  the references to “future specified work” must be read as “work permitted
under paragraph 157. ”.

157.3

  When the Company undertakes works under sub-paragraph (1) they are subject
to paragraphs 158 to 167 which apply with the following modifications to the
relevant paragraphs and defined terms —

157.3.a

  the references to the “ undertaker ” must be read as references to “the
Company ”;

157.3.b

the references to “the Company” must be read as references to “the
undertaker”;

157.3.c

the references to “undertaker cables” must be read as references to “Company
cables”;

157.3.d

the references to “Company cables” must be read as references to “undertaker
cables”; and

157.3.e

  the references to “specified work” must be read as “work permitted under
paragraph 157 ”.

###### Restrictions on anchors and moorings


158

The undertaker must not deploy anchors or other ground mooring equipment
within 250 metres of the Company cables unless in accordance with DNV
Standards or otherwise except on obtaining, for those anchors or ground
mooring equipment, written agreement of the Company   (or the written
agreement of representative of the Company supervising the work in terms of
paragraph 164).

###### Indemnity and liabilities


159

159.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2), (3) and (4), if by reason or in consequence of
the carrying out of any specified work any damage is caused to any apparatus
or property of the Company or there is any interruption or reduction in any
electricity supply by the Company or the Company becomes liable to pay any
amount to any third party, the undertaker must—

159.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim from the Company the
cost reasonably and properly incurred by the Company in making good such
damage or restoring the supply;

159.1.b

indemnify the Company for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings,
damages, claims, penalty or costs reasonably and properly incurred by or
recovered from the Company by reason or in consequence of any such damage,
interruption or reduction or the Company becoming liable to any third party as
aforesaid other than arising from any default by the Company; and

159.1.c

indemnify the Company for any and all claims, proceedings, damages (whether in
contract or tort), costs (including reasonable legal costs), demands,
liabilities, or expenses incurred by the Company which arises out of or in
connection with any pollution caused by or which arises out of any specified
work carried out by or on behalf of the undertaker,

provided that at all times the Company will be under an obligation to take
reasonable steps to mitigate its loss.

159.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by the Company on behalf of
the undertaker or in accordance with a plan or method statement approved by
the Company or in accordance with any requirement of the Company or as a
consequence of carrying out any of the specified work under its supervision
does not (unless sub-paragraph (3) applies), excuse the undertaker from
liability under the provisions of this paragraph where the undertaker fails to
carry out and execute the specified work properly with due care and attention
and in a skilful and workmanlike manner or in a manner that does not
materially accord with the approved method statement (or as otherwise agreed
between the undertaker and the Company).

159.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker in
respect of—

159.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of the Company, its officers, employees, contractors or
agents;

159.3.b

any indirect or consequential loss of any third party (including but not
limited to loss of use, revenue, profit, contract, production, increased cost
of working or business interruption) arising from any such damage or
interruption, which is not reasonably foreseeable.

159.4

 The Company must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any claim or demand
and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise or demand, unless
payment is required in connection with a statutory compensation scheme, is to
be made without first consulting the undertaker and considering its
representation.

160

 The undertaker is responsible for the recovery or removal and when
appropriate the marking or lighting of any wreck or debris arising from or
relating to or in connection with carrying out any part of the specified work
when required by—

160.a

any applicable law or governmental authority;

160.b

any applicable consent or third party agreement that the Company is subject
and/or a party to; or

160.c

where such wreck or debris is interfering with the Company’s operations or is
a hazard to fishing or navigation,

and must be liable for, and must indemnify and hold harmless the Company, from
and against any and all claims, proceedings, damages (whether in contract or
tort), costs (including reasonable legal costs), demands, liabilities, or
expenses incurred by the Company which arises out of or in connection with any
such wreck or debris, whether or not the negligence or breach of duty (whether
statutory or otherwise) of the Company contributed to such wreck or debris.

161

161. 1

In the event of the undertaker being liable for damage to the Company cables,
the Company may at its discretion either—

161. 1.a

require the undertaker to repair the damage; or

161. 1.b

carry out the repair work itself.

161.2

Should the Company elect to carry out the repair work itself, the Company must
use all reasonable endeavours to minimise costs and must take all reasonable
action to repair the Company cables as soon as practicable. The repairs must
be effected with due regard to the technical requirements of the Company
cables and nothing in this paragraph must oblige the Company to accept a
standard of repair that would adversely affect the technical performance of
the affected cable.

162

 In the event of the undertaker being liable for damage to the Company cables,
the Company must use all reasonable endeavours to notify the undertaker of the
existence of the damage to the Company cables as soon as practicable after the
existence of such damage is known.

163

 The undertaker must use reasonable endeavours to procure that any policies of
insurance of the undertaker must contain waiver of subrogation rights which
reflect the provisions of this Part.

###### Representatives


164

 The Company is entitled to have not more than 2 representatives present while
any specified work is being carried out by the undertaker whose role must be
as follows—

164.a

any cost and logistics associated with onboarding and the services of the
Company representatives shall be covered by the undertaker;

164.b

any representatives must be suitably qualified and experienced and must comply
with the Maritime Labour Convention 2006 Regulations;

164.c

the Representatives may be located on any vessel carrying out the specified
work and must have full and free access at all times to all activities related
to the specified work;

164.d

the undertaker must afford the representatives its full cooperation in the
execution of the representative’s duties under this paragraph; and

164.e

the representatives only function is to safeguard the interests of the Company
and he/she/they have no duty to ensure or procure the doing of anything for
the benefit of undertaker or to prevent anything which may be to the detriment
of the undertaker respectively, provided however that the representatives must
act in good faith at all times.

###### Insurance


165

The undertaker must arrange insurance as follows—

165.a

 the undertaker must at all times when carrying out specified work, insure at
its own cost for its liability under paragraphs 159 and 160 for the sum of
twenty million euros   (€20,000,000) for any one incident (or series of
connected incidents) and forty million euros (€40,000,000) in total for any
incident or series of incidents, related or unrelated, in any 12 month period;

165.b

all such policies of insurance must be placed with are placed with an
insurance office approved to do business in Germany or the United Kingdom; and

165.c

the undertaker must provide the Company with evidence of that such insurance
is in place (via a brokers’ confirmation or similar) as may be reasonably
requested by the Company from time to time.

###### Force majeure


166

The undertaker must not be responsible for any failure to fulfil any paragraph
of this Part if and to the extent that fulfilment has been delayed or
temporarily prevented by a force majeure event which has been notified in
accordance with the following provisions—

166.a

in the event of a force majeure event, the undertaker must notify the Company
as soon as practicable and in any event not later than 10 working days after
the undertaker became aware of the event or circumstance giving the full
particulars thereof and must use all reasonable endeavours to remedy the
situation without delay;

166.b

 following notification of a force majeure event in accordance with sub-
paragraph (a) , the undertaker and the Company must meet without delay (and
thereafter at regular intervals) to discuss the effect of the force majeure
event with a view to agreeing a mutually acceptable course of action to
minimise any effects of such occurrence;

166.c

the undertaker must at all times use all reasonable endeavours to avoid,
overcome and minimise any delay in the performance of this Part as a result of
any force majeure event; and

166.d

if the undertaker is affected by force majeure event whilst any of its vessels
or equipment are engaged in the performance of a specified work it must ensure
that all reasonable steps are taken to ensure the protection of the Company
cables from damage and must immediately notify the Company of any such steps
taken.

166.e

The undertaker must give notice to the Company when it ceases to be affected
by the force majeure event and must as soon as reasonably possible after the
cessation of the force majeure event resume performance of its obligations
under this Part.

###### Costs and expenses

167

 The undertaker must pay the Company on demand all reasonable charges, costs
and expenses incurred by the Company in direct consequence of any specified
work carried out by the undertaker under this Part including without
limitation—

167.a

the approval of method statements;

167.b

the carrying out of protective works (including any temporary protective works
and their removal;

167.c

the supervision or monitoring of any specified work by the undertaker
including the cost of appointing representatives in terms of  paragraph 164 ;
and

167.d

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any specified work.

###### Arbitration

168

 Any dispute arising between the undertaker and the Company under this Part
must be determined by arbitration under article 44 (arbitration).

###### Arbitration


169

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

  Removal of hedgerows

Article 33

##### Removal of hedgerows


  In the County of Denbighshire:         (1) Grid coordinates (2) Identifier
as shown on the hedgerow and protected tree plan (3) Grid coordinates (4)
Identifier as shown on the hedgerow and protected tree plan   Easting Northing
Easting Northing 303694.0846 381911.9131 1a 303697.8586 381905.0715 1b
303747.2684 381877.2178 2a 303771.0719 381834.9262 2b 303731.6670 381509.4788
7a 303750.5039 381516.2848 7b 303522.8675 381300.6002 8a 303522.5569
381297.6998 8b 303523.3617 381298.6499 9a 303534.0117 381294.3764 9b
303490.1055 381310.6278 10a 303710.5880 381216.4533 10b 303807.8720
381203.4258 11c 303882.3816 381228.3244 11d 303895.3744 381226.2307 12a
303914.1387 381239.6365 12b 303426.7464 381308.5989 13a 303522.0693
381280.0256 13b 303531.6935 381283.1523 14a 303585.1852 381261.1725 14b
303588.5101 381260.2889 15a 303622.4724 381234.2211 15b 303522.7895
381274.1257 17a 303490.8352 381005.0604 17b 303531.0665 381272.8927 18a
303530.4510 381262.7995 18b 303519.7901 381144.0378 18c 303601.0972
381005.4255 18d 303566.2179 380965.3189 19a 303572.7694 380950.3519 19b
303574.4044 380948.2526 20a 303579.0346 380939.0641 20b 303688.1983
380564.9667 26a 303687.3823 380561.3249 26b 303869.7446 380292.9473 27a
303869.7690 380291.0761 27b 303253.0806 380056.8164 31a 303128.8170
379887.5737 31b 303153.2825 379910.0630 32a 303154.0471 379909.0274 32b
302993.3678 379759.8728 35a 302990.4299 379757.0127 35b 302820.6141
379933.5783 36a 302833.1582 379917.8984 36b 302846.4346 379899.6087 36c
302885.2082 379849.5469 36d 302648.4295 379819.0703 37a 302657.5400
379808.7100 37b 302660.2373 379805.4784 38a 302661.9802 379803.0489 38b
302675.6556 379762.0005 39a 302660.6878 379748.5218 39b 302625.2987
379205.6274 44a 302576.8766 379171.5079 44b 302458.0905 379296.3590 45a
302449.1863 379210.3617 45b 302299.0484 379049.9845 46a 302294.7828
379048.6532 46b 302291.7395 379047.6196 47a 302226.5132 379025.8103 47b
302223.9130 379024.7028 48a 302215.3100 379021.4800 48b 302209.5755
379018.1102 49a 302184.1972 379008.1654 49b 302179.5677 379006.0837 50a
302156.1181 378995.4916 50b 302126.3739 378983.1435 51a 302114.1056
378977.2881 51b 302119.3719 378967.4303 52a 302142.9106 378930.2708 52b
301893.0644 379192.4210 53a 301892.6839 379192.3103 53b 301877.1511
378770.4162 54a 301865.4827 378799.7144 54b 301600.4199 378757.4880 55a
301625.2856 378688.9217 55b 301059.8581 378019.0146 56a 301100.9220
377978.0528 56b 301113.6865 377975.7772 57a 301108.3404 377968.4173 57b
300926.1923 377821.3486 58a 300935.9832 377823.0802 58b 301040.8880
377844.2614 58c 301139.9519 377864.2193 58d 301178.2275 377772.9145 59a
301178.6556 377771.7190 59b 300942.8072 377718.6145 60a 301185.3991
377735.0844 60b 301135.6033 377716.5162 61a 301189.6392 377720.6219 61b
301398.1778 376945.6660 65a 301435.9200 376957.9363 65b 301439.6227
376959.1581 66a 301440.9751 376959.6109 66b 301340.5943 376933.0417 67a
301348.8754 376921.6067 67b 301483.6992 376927.2571 68a 301535.3155
376841.8586 68b 301543.2426 376952.1042 69a 301548.6748 376949.4996 69b
301411.4758 376798.4324 70a 301503.3601 376775.9686 70b 301251.2137
376687.3857 71a 301283.5989 376688.6272 71b 301351.6593 376721.5214 72a
301424.3480 376748.7635 72b 301417.1268 376726.5421 73a 301540.1800
376763.2900 73b 301597.8254 376784.5428 74a 301636.3689 376793.9926 74b
301329.9663 376605.4732 75a 301331.5838 376604.1338 75b 301380.0707
376571.3384 76a 301382.1983 376521.8701 76b 301385.6072 376577.4382 77a
301461.6221 376517.6106 77b 301386.2694 376507.8689 78a 301386.9338
376507.5883 78b 301399.6270 376499.4751 78c 301481.3858 376507.4326 78d
301321.1867 376207.2021 79a 301396.8043 376181.5731 79b 301360.7880
376071.1064 80a 301371.3661 376077.7757 80b 301376.4548 376079.6882 81a
301392.6899 376097.2130 81b 301552.7887 375768.6846 83a 301552.6985
375768.2212 83b 301505.8091 375661.6403 84a 301501.7356 375658.0956 84b
301550.8368 375454.9917 85a 301469.4976 375232.5125 85b 301295.5593
375356.8871 86a 301284.0562 375332.7066 86b 301291.9100 375331.2750 87a
301290.3919 375329.6637 87b 301522.1303 375141.2921 90a 301535.5542
375134.5978 90b 301538.8138 375132.6620 90c 301581.8807 375109.5212 90d
301441.4785 375160.9135 91a 301439.8971 375156.1940 91b 301336.5148
375073.2827 92a 301395.8226 375052.4328 92b 301429.8438 375040.3316 93a
301449.1740 375033.3333 93b 301335.7864 375063.5880 94a 301404.0815
375037.0075 94b 301331.2717 375003.5100 95a 301380.2115 374975.2830 95b
301330.5357 374993.7159 96a 301335.3257 374907.8518 96b 301324.3604
374881.7947 96c 301309.3147 374846.0413 96d 301362.2150 374954.4850 97a
301336.1819 374890.4259 97b 301333.1390 374882.8614 97c 301319.4721
374848.8857 97d 301310.4525 374774.2800 98a 301345.6859 374760.2155 98b
300885.5889 374785.5968 102a 300882.4936 374779.8038 102b 301068.0694
374773.3361 103a 301062.1915 374762.1000 103b 301061.0294 374759.8826 104a
301159.0155 374581.8607 104b 300617.5293 373912.2865 116a 300963.1597
373902.2300 116b 300704.5240 373901.8825 118a 300932.5488 373902.9225 118b
300878.1356 373911.5740 119a 300877.5953 373904.0986 119b 300939.9891
373898.0797 120a 300936.5500 373892.4050 120b 300975.0237 373891.9681 121a
301016.1933 373893.4556 121b 300976.9452 373891.6503 122a 300976.4263
373890.6580 122b 300894.6329 373528.5806 125a 300941.1543 373595.0381 125b
300944.6884 373598.7511 126a 300956.6017 373613.1682 126b 300962.2269
373620.1269 127a 300968.5937 373627.3246 127b 300955.9716 373637.9709 128a
300966.0851 373631.6772 128b 300991.1423 373476.2105 129a 301039.8634
373597.6916 129b 301046.4372 373596.3921 129c 301066.9583 373578.6478 129d
301082.6046 373563.8666 129e 301118.4151 373574.5454 129f 301158.2941
373641.0066 129g 301182.9117 373649.3082 129h 301213.8582 373651.0086 130a
301213.6000 373649.0000 130b 301680.6502 373632.7532 139a 301679.3321
373628.3198 139b 301678.0035 373624.3178 140a 301669.6626 373608.3788 140b
301680.4300 373523.6900 141a 301611.9363 373499.1482 141b 301608.0072
373492.9993 142a 301551.4680 373421.5144 142b 301574.9383 373423.9092 143a
301593.2298 373392.7753 143b 301992.6462 373912.9277 144a 302091.2795
373907.0990 144b

##### Removal of important hedgerows


  In the county of Denbighshire         (1) Grid coordinates (2) Identifier as
shown on the hedgerow and protected tree plan (3) Grid coordinates (4)
Identifier as shown on the hedgerow and protected tree plans   Easting
Northing Easting Northing 303602.6946 381758.4708 3a 303642.8454 381771.5142
3b 303747.1908 381733.2103 3c 303748.8867 381733.0910 3d 303599.6223
381695.4207 4a 303638.7066 381682.0271 4b 303636.5439 381653.9860 5a
303591.5423 381590.6678 5b 303550.5113 381537.4927 5c 303549.7134 381535.7033
5d 303582.5823 381481.0616 6a 303619.4508 381464.6001 6b 303722.4879
381503.1983 6c 303728.3984 381504.0994 6d 303716.8499 381215.3614 11a
303766.7680 381201.6167 11b 303587.2923 381261.4715 16a 303607.5208
381089.1316 16b 303454.2809 380858.6342 21a 303523.7908 380756.6575 21b
303406.4796 380732.4038 22a 303422.2253 380709.9264 22b 303514.6770
380717.4663 23a 303445.4284 380665.1886 23b 303423.3507 380707.4332 24a
303487.5907 380600.9906 24b 303423.0674 380615.7298 25a 303376.7054
380594.6071 25b 303313.8530 380273.2393 28a 303345.4800 380247.3600 28b
303351.1200 380243.9700 29a 303400.3981 380229.2530 29b 303182.7664
380181.7520 30a 303263.3023 380105.0588 30b 303014.5560 380054.8393 33a
303058.4786 379961.2907 33b 302824.3780 379936.0732 34a 302836.7643
379920.2888 34b 302848.9828 379903.4256 34c 302887.8670 379853.5545 34d
302789.8651 379524.1598 40a 302753.7921 379493.4291 40b 302742.3745
379469.4856 41a 302776.8746 379401.1245 41b 302709.7910 379260.3336 42a
302724.7899 379255.4606 42b 302761.8159 379245.2290 43a 302834.4002
379242.9368 43b 301198.4372 377549.3395 62a 301232.6212 377573.0609 62b
301297.7253 377264.2509 63a 301326.1962 377302.9632 63b 301349.0174
377107.7158 64a 301370.8906 377099.0665 64b 301586.3725 375794.1638 82a
301635.9165 375804.6369 82b 301651.5932 375242.3246 88a 301678.0414
375249.1403 88b 301589.5401 375105.1571 89a 301576.8578 375067.7877 89b
301310.4525 374774.2800 98a 301345.6859 374760.2155 98b 301310.4910
374772.9200 99a 301342.1147 374752.6604 99b 301359.3800 374747.9700 100a
301391.7012 374736.4793 100b 301329.3939 374747.0765 101a 301309.6110
374638.0282 101b 301161.6436 374590.3224 105a 301158.2411 374585.2414 105b
301166.7782 374571.3288 106a 301283.0116 374473.2354 106b 301162.5366
374566.1094 107a 301246.0330 374488.4123 107b 301150.8697 374563.7360 108a
301116.9195 374467.2253 108b 301037.6991 374514.0069 109a 301117.1940
374472.9876 109b 300969.3214 374532.8325 110a 301115.2139 374462.8914 110b
300924.5375 374427.5555 111a 300791.6201 374133.1351 111b 300689.2556
374015.4074 112a 300993.1389 374050.8012 112b 301078.1072 374365.3944 113a
300968.8765 373907.8090 113b 301221.3716 374398.3799 114a 301056.5277
374274.2700 114b 301005.5984 374014.0326 115a 301063.7304 373920.3772 115b
300967.9757 373904.1307 117a 301142.4425 373918.4309 117b 300743.3942
373751.4498 123a 300778.6163 373793.0664 123b 300828.3441 373619.4934 124a
300875.7020 373657.6045 124b 301110.0994 373518.5962 131a 301069.4548
373465.5816 131b 301269.3706 373633.6656 132a 301252.2281 373553.6398 132b
301250.3550 373550.3273 133a 301240.5413 373535.5265 133b 301239.0375
373533.6646 134a 301205.0121 373495.2077 134b 301386.9960 373645.5296 135a
301374.0034 373402.4933 135b 301308.3203 373454.5191 136a 301248.9954
373393.8751 136b 301240.2741 373386.0923 137a 301212.3840 373356.8455 137b
301517.2126 373640.7633 138a 301426.2316 373420.1446 138b

  Approval of matters specified in requirements

Article 6

##### Interpretation


1

In this Schedule “ application ” means an application for any consent,
agreement or approval required by a requirement whether or not the application
seeks to discharge a requirement in whole or in part.

##### Applications made under requirements


2

Where an application has been made to the relevant planning authority for any
consent, agreement or approval required pursuant to a requirement included in
this Order, the relevant planning authority must give notice to the undertaker
of their decision, including the reasons, on the application, within a period
of 13 weeks beginning with—

2.a

the day immediately following that on which the application is received by the
relevant planning authority; or

2.b

such longer period as may be agreed by the undertaker and the relevant
planning authority.

##### Further information


3

3.1

Where an application has been made under paragraph 2 the relevant planning
authority has the right to request such reasonable further information from
the undertaker as is necessary to enable it to consider the application.

3.2

If the relevant planning authority considers further information is needed,
and the requirement does not specify that consultation with a requirement
consultee is required, it must, within 21 days of receipt of the application,
notify the undertaker in writing specifying the further information required.

3.3

If the requirement indicates that consultation must take place with a
consultee the relevant planning authority must issue the consultation to the
requirement consultee within five working days of receipt of the application.
Where the consultee requires further information they must notify the relevant
planning authority in writing specifying the further information required
within 21 days of receipt of the consultation. The relevant planning authority
must notify the undertaker in writing specifying any further information
requested by the consultee within five working days of receipt of such a
request.

3.4

In the event that the relevant planning authority does not give such
notification as specified in sub-paragraphs (2) or (3) it is deemed to have
sufficient information to consider the application and is not thereafter
entitled to request further information without the prior agreement of the
undertaker.

##### Provision of information by Consultees


4

4.1

Any consultee who receives a consultation under paragraph 3(3) must respond to
that request within 28 days from receipt unless sub-paragraph (2) of this
paragraph applies.

4.2

Where any consultee requests further information in accordance with the
timescales set out in paragraph 3(3) then they must respond to the
consultation within ten working days from the receipt of the further
information requested.

##### Fees


5

5.1

Where an application is made to the relevant planning authority for agreement
or approval in respect of a requirement the fee for the discharge of
conditions as specified in the Town and Country Planning (Fees for
Applications, Deemed Applications, Requests and Site Visits) (Wales)
Regulations 2015  (or any regulations replacing the same) is to be paid by the
undertaker to the relevant planning authority in accordance with these
regulations.

5.2

Any fee paid under this Schedule must be refunded to the undertaker within
four weeks of the application being rejected as invalidly made.

##### Appeal


6

6.1

The undertaker may appeal in the event that—

6.1.a

the relevant planning authority refuses an application for any consent,
agreement or approval required by a requirement included in this Order or
grants it subject to conditions; or

6.1.b

within the time period specified in paragraph (2).

6.2

The appeal process is to be as follows—

6.2.a

the undertaker must submit the appeal documentation to the Secretary of State
and must on the same day provide copies of the appeal documentation to the
relevant planning authority and any consultee required to be consulted
pursuant to the requirement which is the subject of the appeal (together with
the undertaker, these are the “appeal parties”);

6.2.b

as soon as is practicable after receiving the appeal documentation, the
Secretary of State must appoint a person (the “ appointed person ”) to
determine the appeal and must notify the appeal parties of the identity of the
appointed person and the address to which all correspondence for their
attention should be sent, the date of such notification being the “ start date
” for the purposes of this sub-paragraph (2);

6.2.c

the relevant planning authority and any consultee required to be consulted
pursuant to the requirement which is the subject of the appeal must submit
written representations to the appointed person in respect of the appeal
within ten working days of the start date and must ensure that copies of their
written representations are sent to each other and to the undertaker on the
day on which they are submitted to the appointed person;

6.2.d

the appeal parties must make any counter-submissions to the appointed person
within ten working days of receipt of written representations pursuant to sub-
paragraph (2)(c); and

6.2.e

the appointed person must make their decision and notify it to the appeal
parties, with reasons, as soon as reasonably practicable and in any event
within 30 working days of the deadline for the receipt of counter-submissions
pursuant to sub-paragraph (2)(d).

6.3

The appointment of the person pursuant to sub-paragraph (2)(b) may be
undertaken by a person appointed by the Secretary of State for this purpose
instead of by the Secretary of State.

6.4

In the event that the appointed person considers that further information is
necessary to consider the appeal, the appointed person must notify the appeal
parties in writing specifying the further information required and the date by
which the information is to be submitted and the appointed person must make
any notification and set the date for the receipt of such further information
having regard to the timescales in sub-paragraph (2).

6.5

Any further information required under sub-paragraph (4) must be provided by
the appeal party from whom the further information was requested to the
appointed person and other appeal parties, the relevant planning authority and
any consultee required to be consulted pursuant to the requirement the subject
of the appeal on the date specified by the appointed person (the “specified
date”), and the appointed person must notify the appeal parties of the revised
timetable for the appeal on or before that day. The revised timetable for the
appeal must require submission of written representations to the appointed
person within ten working days of the specified date but otherwise is to be in
accordance with the process and time limits set out in sub-paragraphs (2)(c)
to (2)(e).

6.6

On an appeal under this sub-paragraph, the appointed person may—

6.6.a

allow or dismiss the appeal; or

6.6.b

reverse or vary any part of the decision of the relevant planning authority
(whether the appeal relates to that part of it or not).

6.7

The appointed person may proceed to a decision on an appeal taking into
account only such written representations as have been sent within the
relevant time limits.

6.8

The appointed person may proceed to a decision even though no written
representations have been made within the relevant time limits, if it appears
to the appointed person that there is sufficient material to enable a decision
to be made on the merits of the case and may deal with the application as if
it had been made to the appointed person in the first instance.

6.9

The decision of the appointed person on an appeal is to be final and binding
on the parties, and a court may entertain proceedings for questioning the
decision only if the proceedings are brought by a claim for judicial review.

6.10

If an approval is given by the appointed person pursuant to this paragraph, it
is to be deemed to be an approval for the purpose of Schedule 11 as if it had
been given by the relevant planning authority. The relevant planning authority
may confirm any determination given by the appointed person in identical form
in writing but a failure to give such confirmation (or a failure to give it in
identical form) is not to be taken to affect or invalidate the effect of the
appointed person’s determination.

6.11

Save where a direction is given pursuant to sub-paragraph (12) requiring the
costs of the appointed person to be paid by the relevant planning authority,
the reasonable costs of the appointed person must be met by the undertaker.

6.12

On application by the relevant planning authority or the undertaker, the
appointed person may give directions as to the costs of the appeal parties and
as to the parties by whom the costs of the appeal are to be paid. In
considering whether to make any such direction and the terms on which it is to
be made, the appointed person must have regard to the Welsh Government’s
‘Development Management Manual Section 12 Annex: Award of costs’ or any
circular or guidance which may from time to time replace it.

  Arbitration rules

Article 44

##### Primary objective


1

1.1

The primary objective of these arbitration rules is to achieve a fair,
impartial, final and binding award on the substantive difference between the
parties (save as to costs) within four months from the date the arbitrator is
appointed pursuant to article 44 (arbitration) of the Order.

1.2

The parties will first use their reasonable endeavours to settle a dispute
amicably through negotiations undertaken in good faith by the senior
management of the parties. Any dispute which is not resolved amicably by the
senior management of the parties within twenty business days of the dispute
arising, or such longer period as agreed in writing by the parties, will be
subject to arbitration in accordance with the terms of this Schedule.

1.3

The arbitration will be deemed to have commenced when a party (the “claimant”)
serves a written notice of arbitration on the other party (the “respondent”).

##### Time periods


2

2.1

All time periods in these arbitration rules will be measured in business days
and this will exclude weekends and bank holidays.

2.2

Time periods will be calculated from the day after the arbitrator is appointed
which will be either—

2.2.a

the date the arbitrator notifies the parties in writing of his/her acceptance
of an appointment by agreement of the parties; or

2.2.b

the date the arbitrator is appointed by the Secretary of State.

##### Timetable


3

3.1

The timetable for the arbitration will be that set out in sub-paragraphs (2)
to (4) below unless amended in accordance with paragraph 5(3).

3.2

Within 15 days of the arbitrator being appointed, the claimant must provide
both the respondent and the arbitrator with—

3.2.a

a written statement of claim which describes the nature of the difference
between the parties, the legal and factual issues, the claimant’s contentions
as to those issues, and the remedy it is seeking; and

3.2.b

all statements of evidence and copies of all documents on which it relies,
including contractual documentation, correspondence (including electronic
documents), legal precedents and expert witness reports.

3.3

Within 15 days of receipt of the claimant’s statements under sub-paragraph (2)
by the arbitrator and respondent, the respondent must provide the claimant and
the arbitrator with—

3.3.a

a written statement of defence responding to the claimant’s statement of
claim, its statement in respect of the nature of the difference, the legal and
factual issues in the claimant’s claim, its acceptance of any element(s) of
the claimant’s claim, its contentions as to those element(s) of the claimant’s
claim it does not accept;

3.3.b

all statements of evidence and copies of all documents on which it relies,
including contractual documentation, correspondence (including electronic
documents), legal precedents and expert witness reports; and

3.3.c

any objections it wishes to make to the claimant’s statements, comments on the
claimant’s expert report(s) (if submitted by the claimant) and explanations
for the objections.

3.4

Within five days of the respondent serving its statements sub-paragraph (3),
the claimant may make a statement of reply by providing both the respondent
and the arbitrator with—

3.4.a

a written statement responding to the respondent’s submissions, including its
reply in respect of the nature of the difference, the issues (both factual and
legal) and its contentions in relation to the issues;

3.4.b

all statements of evidence and copies of documents in response to the
respondent’s submissions;

3.4.c

any expert report in response to the respondent’s submissions;

3.4.d

any objections to the statements of evidence, expert reports or other
documents submitted by the respondent; and

3.4.e

its written submissions in response to the legal and factual issues involved.

##### Procedure


4

4.1

The arbitrator will make an award on the substantive difference based solely
on the written material submitted by the parties unless the arbitrator decides
that a hearing is necessary to explain or resolve any matters.

4.2

Either party may, within two days of delivery of the last submission, request
a hearing giving specific reasons why it considers a hearing is required.

4.3

Within five days of receiving the last submission, the arbitrator will notify
the parties whether a hearing is to be held and the length of that hearing.

4.4

Within ten days of the arbitrator advising the parties that he will hold a
hearing, the date and venue for the hearing will be fixed by agreement with
the parties, save that if there is no agreement the arbitrator must direct a
date and venue which he considers is fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances. The date for the hearing must not be less than 35 days from the
date of the arbitrator’s direction confirming the date and venue of the
hearing.

4.5

A decision will be made by the arbitrator on whether there is any need for
expert evidence to be submitted orally at the hearing. If oral expert evidence
is required by the arbitrator, then any expert(s) attending the hearing may be
asked questions by the arbitrator.

4.6

There will be no process of examination and cross-examination of experts, but
the arbitrator will invite the parties to ask questions of the experts by way
of clarification of any answers given by the expert(s) in response to the
arbitrator’s questions. Prior to the hearing the procedure for the expert(s)
will be that—

4.6.a

at least 20 days before a hearing, the arbitrator will provide a list of
issues to be addressed by the expert(s);

4.6.b

if more than one expert is called, they will jointly confer and produce a
joint report or reports within ten days of the issues being provided; and

4.6.c

the form and content of a joint report will be as directed by the arbitrator
and must be provided at least five days before the hearing.

4.7

Within ten days of a hearing or a decision by the arbitrator that no hearing
is to be held the parties may by way of exchange provide the arbitrator with a
final submission in connection with the matters in dispute and any submissions
on costs. The arbitrator will take these submissions into account in the
award.

4.8

The arbitrator may make other directions or rulings as considered appropriate
in order to ensure that the parties comply with the timetable and procedures
to achieve an award on the substantive difference within four months of the
date on which they are appointed, unless both parties otherwise agree to an
extension to the date for the award.

4.9

If a party fails to comply with the timetable, procedure or any other
direction then the arbitrator may continue in the absence of a party or
submission or document, and may make a decision on the information before them
attaching the appropriate weight to any evidence submitted beyond any
timetable or in breach of any procedure and/or direction.

4.10

The arbitrator’s award must include reasons. The parties will accept that the
extent to which reasons are given is to be proportionate to the issues in
dispute and the time available to the arbitrator to deliver the award.

##### Arbitrator’s powers


5

5.1

The arbitrator has all the powers of the Arbitration Act 1996 , including the
non-mandatory sections, save where modified in this Schedule.

5.2

There will be no discovery or disclosure, except that the arbitrator has the
power to order the parties to produce such documents as are reasonably
requested by another party no later than the statement of reply, or by the
arbitrator, where the documents are manifestly relevant, specifically
identified and the burden of production is not excessive. Any application and
orders should be made by way of a Redfern Schedule without any hearing.

5.3

Any time limits fixed in accordance with this procedure or by the arbitrator
may be varied by agreement between the parties, subject to any such variation
being acceptable to and approved by the arbitrator. In the absence of
agreement, the arbitrator may vary the timescales and/or procedure—

5.3.a

if the arbitrator is satisfied that a variation of any fixed time limit is
reasonably necessary to avoid a breach of the rules of natural justice and
then; and

5.3.b

only for such a period that is necessary to achieve fairness between the
parties.

5.4

On the date the award is made, the arbitrator will notify the parties that the
award is completed, signed and dated, and that it will be issued to the
parties on receipt of cleared funds for the arbitrator’s fees and expenses.

##### Costs


6

6.1

The costs of the arbitration will include the fees and expenses of the
arbitrator, the reasonable fees and expenses of any experts and the reasonable
legal and other costs incurred by the parties for the arbitration.

6.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (3), the arbitrator will award recoverable costs on
the general principle that each party should bear its own costs.

6.3

The arbitrator may depart from the general principle in sub-paragraph (2) and
make such other costs award as it considers reasonable where a party has
behaved unreasonably as defined within the National Planning Practice Guidance
or such other guidance as may replace it.

##### Confidentiality


7

7.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), any arbitration hearing and
documentation shall be open and accessible by the public.

7.2

The arbitrator may direct that the whole or part of a hearing is to be private
or any documentation to be confidential where it is necessary in order to
protect commercially sensitive information.

7.3

Nothing in this paragraph prevents any disclosure of a document by a party
pursuant to an order of a court in England and Wales or where disclosure is
required under any enactment.

Documents to be certified

Article 40

The following documents in Table 5 are the list referred to in article 40—
Table 5 Document Number Examination Library Reference Name Version Date 3a.11
REP3a-011 Land plan (Offshore) B 16 December 2022 2.3 REP6-028 Land plan
(Onshore) E 20 February 2023 2.5 REP6-029 Works Plan D 20 February 2023 4.3
REP8-025 Book of Reference I 15 March 2023 Environmental Statement 6.7.1.
APP-293 Non Technical Summary B 20 April 2022 6.7.2. APP-294 Non-Technical
Summary (Welsh Language Version) B 20 April 2022 6.8.1. APP-295 Scoping
Opinion A 20 April 2022 Volume 1 – Introductory Chapters 6.1.1. AS-024 Volume
1, Chapter 1: Introduction C 31 May 2022 (cover incorrectly states April 2022)
6.1.2. APP-040 Volume 1, Chapter 2: Policy and Legislation B 20 April 2022
6.1.3. REP8-056 Volume 1, Chapter 3: Environmental Impact Assessment
Methodology C 15 March 2023 6.1.4. APP-044 Volume 1, Chapter 4: Site Selection
and Alternatives B 20 April 2022 6.1.3.1. APP-042 Volume 1, Annex 3.1:
Cumulative Effects Assessment B 20 April 2022 6.1.3.2. APP-043 Volume 1, Annex
3.2: Transboundary Screening B 20 April 2022 6.1.4.1. APP-045 Volume 1, Annex
4.1: SSA Identification of Area of Search Report B 20 April 2022 6.1.4.2.
APP-046 Volume 1, Annex 4.2: SSA Shortlisting Outcomes Report B 20 April 2022
Volume 2 – Offshore Chapters 6.2.1. APP-047 Volume 2, Chapter 1: Offshore
Project Description B 20 April 2022 6.2.2. REP8-084 Volume 2, Chapter 2:
Marine Geology, Oceanography and Physical Processes C 15 March 2023 6.2.3.
APP-049 Volume 2, Chapter 3: Marine Water and Sediment Quality B 20 April 2022
6.2.4. REP8-085 Volume 2, Chapter 4: Offshore Ornithology C 15 March 2023
6.2.5. APP-051 Volume 2, Chapter 5: Benthic Subtidal and Intertidal Ecology B
20 April 2022 6.2.6. REP8-057 Volume 2, Chapter 6: Fish and Shellfish Ecology
C 15 March 2023 6.2.7. REP8-081 Volume 2, Chapter 7: Marine Mammals D 15 March
2023 6.2.8. REP8-086 Volume 2, Chapter 8: Commercial Fisheries C 15 March 2023
6.2.9. APP-055 Volume 2, Chapter 9: Shipping and Navigation B 20 April 2022
6.2.10. REP8-082 Volume 2, Chapter 10: Seascape, Landscape and Visual Impact
Assessment D 15 March 2023 6.2.11. REP8-058 Volume 2, Chapter 11: Offshore
Archaeology and Cultural Heritage C 15 March 2023 6.2.12. APP-058 Volume 2,
Chapter 12: Other Marine Users and Activities B 20 April 2022 6.2.13. APP-059
Volume 2, Chapter 13: Military and Civil Aviation B 20 April 2022 6.2.14.
REP8-059 Volume 2, Chapter 14: Inter-relationships C 15 March 2023 6.2.15.
AS-028 Volume 2, Chapter 15: Offshore Conclusions C (Document states Rev B,
but is different to Rev B as submitted as APP-061) 31 May 2022 (Document
states March 2022 but is different to Rev B APP-061) Volume 3 – Onshore
Chapters 6.3.1. REP8-060 Volume 3, Chapter 1: Onshore Project Description C 15
March 2023 6.3.2. REP8-087 Volume 3, Chapter 2: Landscape and Visual Impact
Assessment D 15 March 2023 6.3.3. REP8-088 Volume 3, Chapter 3: Socio-
Economics D 15 March 2023 6.3.4. APP-065 Volume 3, Chapter 4: Tourism and
Recreation B 20 April 2022 6.3.5. REP8-061 Volume 3, Chapter 5: Onshore
Biodiversity and Nature Conservation C 15 March 2023 6.3.6. REP8-062 Document
8.47 of the Applicant’s Deadline 8 submission Volume 3, Chapter 6: Ground
Conditions and Land Use C 15 March 2023 6.3.7. REP8-063 Volume 3, Chapter 7:
Hydrology, Hydrogeology and Flood Risk C 15 March 2023 6.3.8. REP8-064 Volume
3, Chapter 8: Onshore Archaeology and Cultural Heritage C 15 March 2023 6.3.9.
APP-070 Volume 3, Chapter 9: Traffic and Transport B 20 April 2022 6.3.10.
REP8-065 Document 8.50 of the Applicant’s Deadline 8 submission Volume 3,
Chapter 10: Noise and Vibration C 15 March 2023 6.3.11. AS-030 Volume 3,
Chapter 11: Air Quality C 31 May 2022 (cover incorrectly states April 2022)
6.3.12. APP-073 Volume 3, Chapter 12: Public Health B 20 April 2022 6.3.13.
REP8-066 Volume 3, Chapter 13: Onshore Conclusions C 15 March 2023 Volume 4 –
Offshore Annexes 6.4.2.1. APP-075 Volume 4, Annex 2.1: Physical Processes
Baseline Technical Report B 20 April 2022 6.4.2.2. APP-076 Volume 4, Annex
2.2: Physical Processes Model Calibration B 20 April 2022 6.4.2.3. APP-077
Volume 4, Annex 2.3: Physical Processes Modelling Results B 20 April 2022
6.4.2.4.1 APP-078 Volume 4, Annex 2.4: Seafloor and Shallow Geological Results
(Array) (Part 1) A 20 April 2022 6.4.2.4.2 APP-079 Volume 4, Annex 2.4:
Seafloor and Shallow Geological Results (Array) (Part 2) A 20 April 2022
6.4.2.4.3 APP-080 Volume 4, Annex 2.4: Seafloor and Shallow Geological Results
(Array) (Part 3) A 20 April 2022 6.4.2.4.4 APP-081 Volume 4, Annex 2.4:
Seafloor and Shallow Geological Results (Array) (Part 4) A 20 April 2022
6.4.2.4.5 APP-082 Volume 4, Annex 2.4: Seafloor and Shallow Geological Results
(Array) (Part 5) A 20 April 2022 6.4.2.4.6 APP-083 Volume 4, Annex 2.4:
Seafloor and Shallow Geological Results (Array) (Part 6) A 20 April 2022
6.4.2.4.7 APP-084 Volume 4, Annex 2.4: Seafloor and Shallow Geological Results
(Array) (Part 7) A 20 April 2022 6.4.2.4.8 APP-085 Volume 4, Annex 2.4:
Seafloor and Shallow Geological Results (Array) (Part 8) A 20 April 2022
6.4.2.4.9 APP-086 Volume 4, Annex 2.4: Seafloor and Shallow Geological Results
(Array) (Part 9) A 20 April 2022 6.4.2.4.10 APP-087 Volume 4, Annex 2.4:
Seafloor and Shallow Geological Results (Array) (Part 10) A 20 April 2022
6.4.2.4.11 APP-088 Volume 4, Annex 2.4: Seafloor and Shallow Geological
Results (Array) (Part 11) A 20 April 2022 6.4.2.4.12 APP-089 Volume 4, Annex
2.4: Seafloor and Shallow Geological Results (Array) (Part 12) A 20 April 2022
6.4.2.5.1 APP-090 Volume 4, Annex 2.5: Seafloor and Shallow Geological Results
(Offshore ECC) (Part 1) A 20 April 2022 6.4.2.5.2 APP-091 Volume 4, Annex 2.5:
Seafloor and Shallow Geological Results (Offshore ECC) (Part 2) A 20 April
2022 6.4.2.5.3 APP-092 Volume 4, Annex 2.5: Seafloor and Shallow Geological
Results (Offshore ECC) (Part 3) A 20 April 2022 6.4.2.5.4 APP-093 Volume 4,
Annex 2.5: Seafloor and Shallow Geological Results (Offshore ECC) (Part 4) A
20 April 2022 6.4.3.1. REP8-067 Volume 4, Annex 3.1: Water Framework Directive
Compliance Assessment C 15 March 2023 6.4.4.1. APP-095 Volume 4, Annex 4.1:
Offshore Ornithology Baseline Characterisation Report B 20 April 2022 6.4.4.2.
APP-096 Volume 4, Annex 4.2: Offshore Ornithology Displacement B 20 April 2022
6.4.4.3. APP-097 Volume 4, Annex 4.3: Offshore Ornithology Collision Risk
Modelling B 20 April 2022 6.4.4.4. APP-098 Volume 4, Annex 4.4: Migratory
Collision Risk Modelling B 20 April 2022 6.4.4.5. APP-099 Volume 4, Annex 4.5:
Offshore Ornithology Scoping and Consultation Responses A 20 April 2022
6.4.4.6. APP-100 Volume 4, Annex 4.6: Offshore Ornithology Population
Viability Analysis B 20 April 2022 6.4.5.1. APP-101 Volume 4, Annex 5.1:
Benthic Ecology Subtidal Characterisation (Array) A 20 April 2022 6.4.5.2.
APP-102 Volume 4, Annex 5.2: Benthic Ecology Subtidal Characterisation
(Offshore ECC) A 20 April 2022 6.4.5.3. APP-103 Volume 4, Annex 5.3: Benthic
Ecology Intertidal Characterisation A 20 April 2022 6.4.6.1. APP-104 Volume 4,
Annex 6.1: Fish and Shellfish Ecology Technical Baseline B 20 April 2022
6.4.6.2. APP-105 Volume 4, Annex 6.2: Underwater Noise Technical Report B 20
April 2022 6.4.7.1. REP8-068 Volume 4, Annex 7.1: Marine Mammal Baseline
Characterisation C 15 March 2023 6.4.7.2. REP8-069 Volume 4, Annex 7.2: Draft
Outline Marine Mammal Mitigation Protocol C 15 March 2023 6.4.7.3. APP-108
Volume 4, Annex 7.3: Marine Mammal Quantitative Assessment Assumptions B 20
April 2022 6.4.8.1. APP-109 Volume 4, Annex 8.1: Commercial Fisheries Baseline
Report B 20 April 2022 6.4.8.2. APP-110 Volume 4, Annex 8.2: Commercial
Fisheries Consultation Record B 20 April 2022 6.4.9.1. APP-111 Volume 4, Annex
9.1: Navigation Risk Assessment B 20 April 2022 6.4.10.1. APP-112 Volume 4,
Annex 10.1: SLVIA Methodology A 20 April 2022 6.4.10.2. APP-113 Volume 4,
Annex 10.2: SLVIA Consultation A 20 April 2022 6.4.10.3. APP-114 Volume 4,
Annex 10.3: SLVIA Simple Assessment B 20 April 2022 6.4.10.4. APP-115 Volume
4, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Visibility Data B 20 April 2022 6.4.10.5. APP-116 Volume
4, Annex 10.7: SLVIA Legislation and Policy A 20 April 2022 6.4.11.1. APP-117
Volume 4: Annex 11.1: Offshore Archaeology Desk Based Assessment B 20 April
2022 6.4.12.1. APP-118 Volume 4, Annex 12.1: Charter Angling Baseline Report B
20 April 2022 6.4.12.1.1 APP-119 Volume 4, Annex 12.1: Charter Angling
Baseline Report Annex B (Confidential) N/A 20 April 2022 Volume 5 – Onshore
Annexes 6.5.1.1. APP-121 Volume 5, Annex 1.1: Crossing Schedule B 20 April
2022 6.5.2.1. APP-122 Volume 5, Annex 2.1: LANDMAP Assessment B 20 April 2022
6.5.4.1. APP-123 Volume 5, Annex 4.1: Baseline information relating to
recreation resources B 20 April 2022 6.5.4.2. APP-124 Volume 5, Annex 4.2:
Seaside Tourism Economics Employment Evidence A 20 April 2022 6.5.5.1.
REP8-070 Volume 5, Annex 5.1: Preliminary Ecological Appraisal Report; C 15
March 2023 6.5.5.2. APP-125 Volume 5, Annex 5.2: Habitat and Hedgerow Survey
Report. A 20 April 2022 6.5.5.3. APP-126 Volume 5, Annex 5.3: Wintering Bird
Survey Report. A 20 April 2022 6.5.5.4. APP-127 Volume 5, Annex 5.4: Reptile
Survey Report. A 20 April 2022 6.5.5.5. APP-128 Volume 5, Annex 5.5: Otter and
Watervole Survey Report. A 20 April 2022 6.5.5.6. APP-129 Volume 5, Annex 5.6:
Great Crested Newt Survey Report. A 20 April 2022 6.5.5.7. REP8-071 Volume 5,
Annex 5.7: Dormouse Survey Report. B 15 March 2023 Environmental Statement
Volume 5, Annex 5.8. AS-031 Volume 5, Annex 5.8: Breeding Bird Survey Report.
B 31 May 2022 6.5.5.8.1 AS-032 Volume 5, Annex 5.8: Appendix 4 CONFIDENTIAL
Barn Owl Survey Results A 31 May 2022 6.5.5.9. APP-132, APP-133 Volume 5,
Annex 5.9: Badger Survey Report (Confidential and Public). N/A 20 April 2022
6.5.5.10. APP-134 Volume 5, Annex 5.10: Bat Survey Report. N/A 20 April 2022
6.5.5.11. APP-135 Volume 5, Annex 5.11: Noise Modelling for Important
Ornithological Features (Onshore) A 20 April 2022 6.5.5.12. APP-136 Volume 5,
Annex 5.12: Consultation Feedback A 20 April 2022 1.41 REP1-042 Volume 5,
Annex 7.1: Onshore ECC Flood Consequence Assessment; C 24 October 2022 1.43
REP1-044 Volume 5, Annex 7.2: Onshore Substation Flood Consequence Assessment;
C 24 October 2022 1.43 Appendix A REP1-045 Volume 5, Annex 7.2: Onshore
Substation Flood Consequence Assessment - Appendix A Outline Drainage Strategy
C 24 October 2022 6.5.7.3. APP-139 Volume 5, Annex 7.3: Landfall HDD crossing
Groundwater Risk Assessment; A 20 April 2022 6.5.7.4. APP-140 Volume 5, Annex
7.4: A525 HDD crossing Groundwater Risk Assessment; A 20 April 2022 6.5.7.5.
APP-141 Volume 5, Annex 7.5: River Clwyd HDD crossing Groundwater Risk
Assessment; A 20 April 2022 6.5.7.6. APP-142 Volume 5, Annex 7.6: A55 HDD
crossing Groundwater Risk Assessment; A 20 April 2022 6.5.8.1. APP-143 Volume
5, Annex 8.1: Archaeological Desk-Based Assessment B 20 April 2022 6.5.8.2.
APP-144 Volume 5, Annex 8.2: Designated Heritage Assets Scoping Exercise B 20
April 2022 6.5.8.3. APP-145 Volume 5, Annex 8.3: Detailed Gradiometer Survey
Report B 20 April 2022 6.5.8.4. APP-146 Volume 5, Annex 8.4: Outline Onshore
Archaeological Watching Brief 2021 B 20 April 2022 6.5.8.5. APP-147 Volume 5,
Annex 8.5: Onshore WSI A 20 April 2022 6.5.9.1. APP-148 Volume 5, Annex 9.1:
Traffic and Transport Technical Baseline Report; B 20 April 2022 6.5.9.2.
APP-149 Volume 5, Annex 9.2: Trip Generation and Distribution Calculations; A
20 April 2022 6.5.9.3. APP-150 Volume 5, Annex 9.3: Percentage Impact
Calculations and Assessment Screening; B 20 April 2022 6.5.10.1. APP-151
Volume 5, Annex 10.1: Sound Level Meter Calibration Certificates. A 20 April
2022 6.5.10.2. APP-152 Volume 5, Annex 10.2: Sound Survey Results. A 20 April
2022 6.5.10.3. APP-153 Volume 5, Annex 10.3: Construction Plant Sound Levels.
A 20 April 2022 6.5.10.4. APP-154 Volume 5, Annex 10.4: Operational Substation
Noise Modelling Results. A 20 April 2022 6.5.12.1. APP-155 Volume 5, Annex
12.1: Technical Note – Electro-Magnetic Frequencies A 20 April 2022 Volume 6 –
S/LVIA 6.6.2.2.1 APP-156 Volume 6, Annex 2.2: LVIA Figures - Figure 2.1 (Site
Location and Study Area) A 20 April 2022 6.6.2.2.2 APP-157 Volume 6, Annex
2.2: LVIA Figures - Figure 2.2 (Landform) A 20 April 2022 6.6.2.2.3 APP-158
Volume 6, Annex 2.2: LVIA Figures - Figure 2.3a (Landscape Character
(National)) A 20 April 2022 6.6.2.2.4 APP-159 Volume 6, Annex 2.2: LVIA
Figures - Figure 2.3b (Landscape Character (Regional)) A 20 April 2022
6.6.2.2.5 APP-160 Volume 6, Annex 2.2: LVIA Figures - Figure 2.4 (Landscape
Designations) A 20 April 2022 6.6.2.2.6 APP-161 Volume 6, Annex 2.2: LVIA
Figures - Figure 2.5 (Principle Visual Receptors) A 20 April 2022 6.6.2.2.7
REP7-039 Volume 6, Annex 2.2: LVIA Figures - Figure 2.6 (Aerial Mapping with
Proposed Development) C 08 March 2023 6.6.2.2.8 APP-163 Volume 6, Annex 2.2:
LVIA Figures - Figure 2.7 (Context Photos) A 20 April 2022 6.6.2.2.9 APP-164
Volume 6, Annex 2.2: LVIA Figures - Figure 2.8a (Substation Bare Ground ZTV
with Viewpoints) A 20 April 2022 6.6.2.2.10 APP-165 Volume 6, Annex 2.2: LVIA
Figures - Figure 2.8b (Substation Screened ZTV with Viewpoints) A 20 April
2022 6.6.2.2.11 APP-166 Volume 6, Annex 2.2: LVIA Figures - Figure 2.8c
(Substation Screened ZTV with Viewpoints) A 20 April 2022 6.6.2.2.12 APP-167
Volume 6, Annex 2.2: LVIA Figures - Figure 2.9a (LANDMAP Aspect Areas:
Geological Landscape) A 20 April 2022 6.6.2.2.13 APP-168 Volume 6, Annex 2.2:
LVIA Figures - Figure 2.9b (LANDMAP Aspect Areas: Geological Landscape and
Screened ZTV) A 20 April 2022 6.6.2.2.14 APP-169 Volume 6, Annex 2.2: LVIA
Figures - Figure 2.10a (LANDMAP Aspect Areas: Landscape Habitats) A 20 April
2022 6.6.2.2.15 APP-170 Volume 6, Annex 2.2: LVIA Figures - Figure 2.10b
(LANDMAP Aspect Areas: Landscape Habitats and Screened ZTV) A 20 April 2022
6.6.2.2.16 APP-171 Volume 6, Annex 2.2: LVIA Figures - Figure 2.11a (LANDMAP
Aspect Areas: Cultural Landscape Services) A 20 April 2022 6.6.2.2.17 APP-172
Volume 6, Annex 2.2: LVIA Figures - Figure 2.11b (LANDMAP Aspect Areas:
Cultural Landscape Services and Screened ZTV) A 20 April 2022 6.6.2.2.18
APP-173 Volume 6, Annex 2.2: LVIA Figures - Figure 2.12a (LANDMAP Aspect
Areas: Historic Landscape) A 20 April 2022 6.6.2.2.19 APP-174 Volume 6, Annex
2.2: LVIA Figures - Figure 2.12b (LANDMAP Aspect Areas: Historic Landscape and
Screened ZTV) A 20 April 2022 6.6.2.2.20 APP-175 Volume 6, Annex 2.2: LVIA
Figures - Figure 2.13a (LANDMAP Aspect Areas: Visual and Sensory) A 20 April
2022 6.6.2.2.21 APP-176 Volume 6, Annex 2.2: LVIA Figures - Figure 2.13b
(LANDMAP Aspect Areas: Visual and Sensory and Screened ZTV) A 20 April 2022
6.6.2.2.22 APP-177 Volume 6, Annex 2.2: LVIA Figures - Figure 2.14 (Landscape
Character: Landscape Designations and Screened ZTV) A 20 April 2022 6.6.2.2.23
APP-178 Volume 6, Annex 2.2: LVIA Figures - Figure 2.15 (Principal Visual
Receptors and Screened ZTV) A 20 April 2022 6.6.2.2.24 APP-179 Volume 6, Annex
2.2: LVIA Figures - Figure 2.16 (Outline Landscape Mitigation Principles) A 20
April 2022 6.6.2.2.25 APP-180 Volume 6, Annex 2.2: LVIA Figures - Figure 2.17
(Cumulative Developments) A 20 April 2022 6.6.2.3.1 REP8-072 Volume 6, Annex
2.3: LVIA Visualisations - Figure 2.18 (Viewpoint 1: Bridlepath nr Faenol-
broper) B 15 March 2023 6.6.2.3.2 REP8-073 Volume 6, Annex 2.3: LVIA
Visualisations - Figure 2.19 (Viewpoint 2: St Asaph, Business Park) B 15 March
2023 6.6.2.3.3 REP8-074 Volume 6, Annex 2.3: LVIA Visualisations - Figure 2.20
(Viewpoint 3: Glascoed Rd) B 15 March 2023 6.6.2.3.4 REP8-075 Volume 6, Annex
2.3: LVIA Visualisations - Figure 2.21 (Viewpoint 4: A55) B 15 March 2023
6.6.2.3.5 REP8-076 Volume 6, Annex 2.3: LVIA Visualisations - Figure 2.22
(Viewpoint 5: Minor Rd, Groesffordd) B 15 March 2023 6.6.2.3.6 REP8-077 Volume
6, Annex 2.3: LVIA Visualisations - Figure 2.23 (Viewpoint 6: Bodelwyddan
Castle) B 15 March 2023 6.6.2.3.7 REP8-078 Volume 6, Annex 2.3: LVIA
Visualisations - Figure 2.24 (Viewpoint 7: St Asaph) B 15 March 2023 6.6.2.3.8
REP8-079 Volume 6, Annex 2.3: LVIA Visualisations - Figure 2.25 (Viewpoint 8:
Rhuddlan) B 15 March 2023 6.6.2.3.9 REP8-080 Volume 6, Annex 2.3: LVIA
Visualisations - Figure 2.26 (Viewpoint 9: Y Foel) B 15 March 2023 6.6.10.4.1
APP-190 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 1 (Array area and SLVIA
Study Area with Cumulative Developments) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.4.2 APP-191
Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 2a (Maximum Design Scenario A
(332m blade tip)) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.4.3 APP-192 Volume 6, Annex 10.4:
SLVIA Figures - Figure 2b (Maximum Design Scenario B (252m blade tip)) A 20
April 2022 6.6.10.4.4 APP-193 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 2c
(Snowdonia National Park and Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty) A 20 April
2022 6.6.10.4.5 APP-194 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 3
(Landform) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.4.6 APP-195 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA
Figures - Figure 4 (Seascape Character (National)) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.4.7
APP-196 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 5 (Seascape Character
(Wales, Regional)) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.4.8 APP-197 Volume 6, Annex 10.4:
SLVIA Figures - Figure 6 (Landscape Character (National)) A 20 April 2022
6.6.10.4.9 APP-198 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 7a (Landscape
Character (Wales, Regional)) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.4.10 APP-199 Volume 6,
Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 7b (Landscape Character (Wales, Regional) -
Legend) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.4.11 APP-200 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA
Figures - Figure 8 (Landscape Planning Designations) A 20 April 2022
6.6.10.4.12 APP-201 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 9 (LANDMAP -
Visual and Sensory Evalation) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.4.13 APP-202 Volume 6,
Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 10a (Baseline Light Pollution) A 20 April
2022 6.6.10.4.14 APP-203 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 10b
(Tranquility) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.4.15 APP-204 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA
Figures - Figure 11 (Visual Receptors and Viewpoint Locations) A 20 April 2022
6.6.10.4.16 APP-205 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 12a (Blade
Tip ZTV for MDS A) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.4.17 APP-206 Volume 6, Annex 10.4:
SLVIA Figures - Figure 12b (Hub height ZTV for MDS A) A 20 April 2022
6.6.10.4.18 APP-207 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 12c
(Comparative Blade Tip ZTV MDS A (PEIR) and MDS A (ES)) A 20 April 2022
6.6.10.4.19 APP-208 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 13a (Blade
Tip ZTV for MDS B) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.4.20 APP-209 Volume 6, Annex 10.4:
SLVIA Figures - Figure 13b (Hub Height ZTV for MDS B) A 20 April 2022
6.6.10.4.21 APP-210 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 13c
(Comparative Blade Tip ZTV MDS B (PEIR) and MDS B (ES)) A 20 April 2022
6.6.10.4.22 APP-211 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 14
(Horizontal Angle ZTV for MDS A) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.4.23 APP-212 Volume 6,
Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 15 (Seascape Character (Wales, Regional)
with Blade Tip ZTV) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.4.24 APP-213 Volume 6, Annex 10.4:
SLVIA Figures - Figure 16a-b (Blade Tip ZTV (MDS A) with Landscape Character
and Viewpoint Locations) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.4.25 APP-214 Volume 6, Annex
10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 16c (Blade Tip ZTV (MDS A) with Landscape
Character and Viewpoint Locations) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.4.26 APP-215 Volume
6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 17.1a-b (Blade Tip ZTV (MDS A) with
Visual Receptors and Viewpoint Locations) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.4.27 APP-216
Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 17.1c (Blade Tip ZTV (MDS A) with
Visual Receptors and Viewpoint Locations) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.4.28 APP-217
Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 17.2a-b (Hub Height Tip ZTV (MDS
A) with Visual Receptors and Viewpoint Locations) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.4.29
APP-218 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 17.2c (Hub Height Tip ZTV
(MDS A) with Visual Receptors and Viewpoint Locations) A 20 April 2022
6.6.10.4.30 APP-219 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 18a-b (Blade
Tip ZTV (MDS A) with Landscape Designations and Viewpoint Locations) A 20
April 2022 6.6.10.4.31 APP-220 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure
18c-d (Blade Tip ZTV (MDS A) with Landscape Designations and Viewpoint
Locations) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.4.32 APP-221 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA
Figures - Figure 19 (Wales Coast Path with Blade Tip ZTV (MDS A)) A 20 April
2022 6.6.10.4.33 APP-222 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 20
(Blade Tip ZTV (MDS) with Met Office Visibility Range Bands) A 20 April 2022
6.6.10.4.34 APP-223 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 21a-b (Hub
Height Aviation Lighting ZTV (MDS A)) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.4.35 APP-224
Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 22a-b (Hub Height Aviation
Lighting ZTV (MDS B)) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.4.36 APP-225 Volume 6, Annex
10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 23 (Comparative Blade Tip ZTV - MDS A and MDS B)
A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.4.37 APP-226 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures -
Figure 24 (Combined Cumulative Blade Tip ZTV for Operations Offshore Wind
Farms) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.4.38 APP-227 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures
- Figure 25 (Blade Tip ZTVs for MDS A and Combined Cumulative OWFs) A 20 April
2022 6.6.10.4.39 APP-228 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 26
(Combined Cumulative ZTV for Onshore Wind Farms (Isle of Anglesey)) A 20 April
2022 6.6.10.4.40 APP-229 Volume 6, Annex 10.4: SLVIA Figures - Figure 27
(Combined Cumulative ZTV for Onshore Wind Farms (Conwy and Denbighshire) A 20
April 2022 6.6.10.5.1 APP-230 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations -
Figure 28 (Viewpoint 1 - Bull Bay near Amlwch - Wales Coast Path) A 20 April
2022 6.6.10.5.2 APP-231 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 29
(Viewpoint 2 - Point Lynas - PRoW to North of Lighthouse) A 20 April 2022
6.6.10.5.3 APP-232 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 30
(Viewpoint 3 - Mynydd Eilian - Near Trig Point) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.4
APP-233 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 31 (ViewPoint 4 -
Moelfre Headland at Sculpture) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.5 APP-234 Volume 6,
Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 32 (ViewPoint 5 - Red Wharf Bay) A
20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.6 APP-235 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations -
Figure 33 (ViewPoint 6 - Bwrdd Arthur - North of Trig Point) A 20 April 2022
6.6.10.5.7 APP-236 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 34
(ViewPoint 7 - Penmon Point - North-East of Parking) A 20 April 2022
6.6.10.5.8 APP-237 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 35
(ViewPoint 8 - Beaumaris - Wales Coast Path) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.9
APP-238 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 36 (ViewPoint 9 -
Bangor Pier - (Southern End)) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.10 APP-239 Volume 6,
Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 37 (ViewPoint 10 - Carnedd Llewelyn)
A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.11 APP-240 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations
- Figure 38 (ViewPoint 11 - Llanfairfechan) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.12
APP-241 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 39 (ViewPoint 12 -
Conwy Mountain) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.13 APP-242 Volume 6, Annex 10.5:
SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 40 (ViewPoint 13 - Great Orme - Near Summit
Complex) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.14 APP-243 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA
Visualisations - Figure 41 (ViewPoint 14 - Wales Coast Path Near Penrhyn
(Traeth yr Ora)) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.15 APP-244 Volume 6, Annex 10.5:
SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 42 (ViewPoint 15 - Great Orme – Café) A 20 April
2022 6.6.10.5.16 APP-245 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure
43 (ViewPoint 16 - Benlech Bay View Road) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.17 APP-246
Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 44 (ViewPoint 17 - Penrhyn
Castle Terrace) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.18 APP-247 Volume 6, Annex 10.5:
SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 45 (ViewPoint 18 - Llandudno Paddling Pool) A 20
April 2022 6.6.10.5.19 APP-248 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations -
Figure 46 (ViewPoint 19 - Rhos-on-Sea) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.20 APP-249
Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 47 (ViewPoint 20 - Bryn
Euryn) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.21 APP-250 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA
Visualisations - Figure 48 (ViewPoint 21 - Mynydd Marian) A 20 April 2022
6.6.10.5.22 APP-251 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 49
(ViewPoint 22 - Abergele Promenade) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.23 APP-252 Volume
6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 50 (ViewPoint 23 - Rhyl Aquarium)
A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.24 APP-253 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations
- Figure 51 (ViewPoint 24 - Graig Fawr) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.25 APP-254
Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 52 (ViewPoint 25 -
Prestatyn Nova Centre) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.26 APP-255 Volume 6, Annex
10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 53 (ViewPoint 26 - Bryn-Ilwyn Viewpoint
(Prestatyn Hillside Viewpoint, Gwaenysgor)) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.27
APP-256 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 54 (ViewPoint 27 -
Point of Ayr) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.28 APP-257 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA
Visualisations - Figure 55 (ViewPoint 28 - Trwyn y Penrhyn Parking Layby) A 20
April 2022 6.6.10.5.29 APP-258 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations -
Figure 56 (ViewPoint 29 - Colwyn Bay Promenade) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.30
APP-259 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 57 (ViewPoint 30 -
Hilbre Point) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.31 APP-260 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA
Visualisations - Figure 58 (ViewPoint 31 - Crosby) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.32
APP-261 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 59 (ViewPoint 32 -
Formby Lifeboat Station (Formby Point)) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.33 APP-262
Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 60 (ViewPoint 33 -
Southport (pier)) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.34 APP-263 Volume 6, Annex 10.5:
SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 61 (ViewPoint 34 - Snowdon Summit) A 20 April
2022 6.6.10.5.35 APP-264 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure
62 (ViewPoint 35 - Blackpool Tower) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.36 APP-265 Volume
6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 63 (ViewPoint 36 - Tal y Fan) A
20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.37 APP-266 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations -
Figure 64 (ViewPoint 37 - Cefn Coch Stone Circle) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.38
APP-267 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 65 (ViewPoint 38 -
Foel Fras) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.39 APP-268 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA
Visualisations - Figure 66 (ViewPoint 39 - North Wales Path at Garreg Fawr) A
20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.40 APP-269 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations -
Figure 67 (ViewPoint 40 - Above Capelulo – North Wales Path) A 20 April 2022
6.6.10.5.41 APP-270 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 68
(ViewPoint 41 - Wales Coast Path North-East of Rhôs-Mynach-Fawr) A 20 April
2022 6.6.10.5.42 APP-271 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure
69 (ViewPoint 42 - Mynydd Bodafon - Trig Point) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.43
APP-272 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 70 (ViewPoint 43 -
Mynydd y Garn) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.44 APP-273 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA
Visualisations - Figure 71 (ViewPoint 44 - Beaumaris Castle) A 20 April 2022
6.6.10.5.45 APP-274 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 72
(ViewPoint 45 - Conwy Castle – Chapel Tower) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.46
APP-275 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 73 (ViewPoint 49 -
Menai Suspension Bridge) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.47 APP-276 Volume 6, Annex
10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 74 (ViewPoint 50 - Gwrych Castle –
Terrace) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.48 APP-277 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA
Visualisations - Figure 75 (ViewPoint 52 - Pen-y-Dinas Camp at Interpretation
Sign) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.49 APP-278 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA
Visualisations - Figure 76 (ViewPoint 53 - Puffin Island) A 20 April 2022
6.6.10.5.50 APP-279 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 77
(ViewPoint 54 - y Foel (Common land and hill east of Dyserth)) A 20 April 2022
6.6.10.5.51 APP-280 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 78
(ViewPoint 55 - Footpath Above Cilgwyn Mawr) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.52
APP-281 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 79 (ViewPoint 56 -
Pen-y-corddyn-mawr) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.53 APP-282 Volume 6, Annex 10.5:
SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 80 (ViewPoint 57 - Moelfre Isaf) A 20 April 2022
6.6.10.5.54 APP-283 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 81
(ViewPoint 58 - Little Orme on the Wales Coast Path) A 20 April 2022
6.6.10.5.55 APP-284 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 82
(ViewPoint 59 - Llandundo Promenade - Lifeboat Slipway) A 20 April 2022
6.6.10.5.56 APP-285 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 83
(ViewPoint 60 - Foel Lus) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.57 APP-286 Volume 6, Annex
10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 84 (ViewPoint 61 - Llandudno Promenade
near Venue Cymru) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.58 APP-287 Volume 6, Annex 10.5:
SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 85 a-e (ViewPoint 62 -Great Orme – Marine Drive,
Wales Coast Path near Toll Booth) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.59 APP-288 Volume
6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations - Figure 86 (ViewPoint 63 - A55 at
Penmaenmawr) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.60 APP-289 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA
Visualisations - Figure 87 (ViewPoint 64 - A55 at Puffin Roundabout,
Dwygyfylch) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.61 APP-290 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA
Visualisations - Figure 88 (ViewPoint 65 - A55 at jetty north of Penmaen Rhos)
A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.62 APP-291 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA Visualisations
- Figure 89 (ViewPoint 66 - Liverpool to Dublin Ferry route north of Great
Orme) A 20 April 2022 6.6.10.5.63 APP-292 Volume 6, Annex 10.5: SLVIA
Visualisations - Figure 90 (ViewPoint 67 - Liverpool to Dublin Ferry route
north of Conwy Bay) A 20 April 2022 Outline Code of Construction Practice 8.13
REP7-018 Outline Code of Construction Practice G 08 March 2023 8.13.1 REP7-020
Outline CoCP, Appendix 1,Outline Construction Method Statement H 08 March 2023
2.20 REP2-020 Outline CoCP, Appendix 2, Outline Noise and Vibration Management
Plan C 09 November 2022 2.31 REP2-031 Outline CoCP, Appendix 3, Outline Air
Quality Management Plan C 09 November 2022 8.13.4 REP7-022 Outline CoCP,
Appendix 4, Outline Soil Management Plan G 08 March 2023 2.35 REP2-035 Outline
CoCP, Appendix 5, Outline Site Waste Management Plan C 09 November 2022 2.37
REP2-037 Outline CoCP, Appendix 6, Outline Pollution Prevention and Emergency
Incident Response Plan C 09 November 2022 8.13.7 REP4-035 Outline CoCP,
Appendix 7, Outline Construction Traffic Management Plan D 30 January 2023
8.13.8 REP7-024 Outline CoCP, Appendix 8, Outline Public Access Management
Plan F 08 March 2023 8.13.9 APP-321 Outline CoCP, Appendix 9, Outline Travel
Plan B 20 April 2022 2.45 REP2-045 Outline CoCP, Appendix 10, Outline
Artificial Light and Emissions Plan C 09 November 2022 8.13.11 REP8-040
Outline CoCP, Appendix 11, Outline Invasive Non-Native Species Management Plan
E 15 March 2023 8.13.12 REP6-042 Outline CoCP, Appendix 12, Outline
Communication Plan C 20 February 2023 Other documents 8.8 REP7-028 Design
Principles Document E 08 March 2023 8.4 REP7-026 Outline Landscape and Ecology
Management Plan E 08 March 2023 2.6 REP6-030 Street Works and Access Plan D 20
February 2023 2.7 REP6-031 Temporary Stopping Up of Public Rights of Way Plan
D 20 February 2023 2.12 REP6-036 Hedgerow and Protected Tree Plan D 20
February 2023 2.1 REP8-090 Location Plan E 15 March 2023 2.4 REP6-027 Special
Category Land Plan D 20 February 2023   4.7   REP4-007 Outline Skills and
Employment Strategy B 30 January 2023   6.31   REP6-041 Outline Offshore
Piling Noise Monitoring Plan B 20 February 2023   8.78   REP8-093   Landscape
Enhancement Scheme Principles   A 15 March 2023 6.14 REP6-023 Community
Linguistic Statement B 20 February 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order grants development consent for, and authorises the construction,
operation and maintenance of an offshore wind farm generating station located
approximately 11km from the coast of Denbighshire, together with associated
development. This Order imposes requirements in connection with the
development and authorises the compulsory acquisition of land (including
rights in land) and the right to use land and to override easements and other
rights.

  A copy of the plans and book of reference referred to in this Order and
certified in accordance with article 40 (certification of plans, etc.)
together with a copy of any guarantee or alternative form of security approved
by the Secretary of State pursuant to article 31 (funding), may be inspected
free of charge at the offices of RWE at Windmill Hill Business Park, Whitehill
Way, Swindon Wiltshire, SN5 6PB.

