Title: The Industrial Training Levy (Construction Industry) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-09-05
Description: This Order gives effect to proposals submitted by the Construction Industry Training Board to the Department for the Economy for the imposition of a further levy upon employers in the construction industry for the purpose of raising money towards the expenses of the Board.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/99

## The Industrial Training Levy (Construction Industry) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Industrial Training

  Made   20th June 2023

  Coming into operation   31st August 2023

      This Order gives effect to levy proposals submitted by the Construction
Industry Training Board  (“ the Board ”) to, and approved by, the Department
for the Economy  (“ the Department ”) under Articles 23(1) and (2) of the
Industrial Training (Northern Ireland) Order 1984  (“ the Order of 1984 ”).
The levy to be paid by any employer in the construction industry does not
exceed an amount which the Department estimates is equal to one per cent of
the relevant earnings, being the aggregate of the earnings and payments
intended to be disbursed as earnings which have been paid or are payable by
any such employer to or in respect of persons employed in the industry, in
respect of the period specified in the levy proposals.       In relation to
the requirement set out at Article 23(3) of the Order of 1984 the levy
proposals provide for the exemption of employers who, in view of the small
amount of the relevant earnings, ought in the opinion of the Department to be
exempted from it.       In relation to the requirement set out at Article
25(6)(a) of the Order of 1984 the levy proposals include proposals that no
remission be given to employers in the industry.       In relation to the
requirement set out at Article 23(6) of the Order of 1984 the Department is
satisfied and the relevant organisations consider, after taking reasonable
steps to ascertain the views of the persons they represent, that the levy
proposals are necessary to encourage adequate training in the industry.
The conditions set out in Article 23(7)(b) of the Order of 1984 are satisfied.
The Department makes the following Order in exercise of the powers conferred
by Articles 23(2) and (3) and 24(3) and (4) of the Order of 1984 and now
vested in it.

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Industrial Training Levy (Construction
Industry) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation on 31st
August 2023.

1.2

In this Order—

      “ assessment ” means an assessment of an employer to the levy;
“ the Board ” means the Construction Industry Training Board;           “
business ” means any activities of industry or commerce;           “
Construction Board Order ” means the Industrial Training (Construction Board)
Order (Northern Ireland) 1964 ;           “ construction establishment ” means
an establishment in Northern Ireland engaged wholly or mainly in the
construction industry for a total of twenty-seven or more weeks in the fifty-
ninth base period, or being an establishment that commenced to carry out
business in the fifty-ninth base period, for a total number of weeks exceeding
one half of the number of weeks in the part of the said period commencing with
the day on which business was commenced and ending on the last day thereof; or
where an election is made, in any part of the alternative fifty-ninth base
period;           “ construction industry ” means any one or more of the
activities which, subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 to
the Construction Board Order are specified in paragraph 1 of that Schedule as
the activities of the construction industry;           “ earnings ” means
earnings as defined in Section 62 of the Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions)
Act 2003  which are chargeable to tax under Part 2 of that Act; and all other
payments made under a contract for service or otherwise than under a contract;
“ election ” means an election made in accordance with the provisions of
Article 2(4), by an employer to pay the levy in respect of the relevant
earnings of persons employed at or from a construction establishment during
the alternative fifty-ninth base period;           “ employer ” means a person
who is an employer in the construction industry at any time in the fifty-ninth
levy period;           “ levy ” means the levy imposed by the Board in respect
of the fifty-ninth levy period;           “ notice ” means a notice in
writing;           “ fifty-ninth base period ” means the year that commenced
on 6th April 2022 and the “ alternative fifty-ninth base period ” means the
year commencing on 6th April 2023; and           “ fifty-ninth levy period ”
means the year commencing on 1st September 2023.

1.3

Any reference in this Order to an establishment that commences to carry on
business or that ceases to carry on business shall not be taken to apply where
the location of the establishment is changed but its business is continued
wholly or mainly at or from the new location, or where the suspension of
activities is of a temporary or seasonal nature.

### Imposition and assessment of the levy for the fifty-ninth levy period

2

2.1

The levy to be imposed on employers shall be assessed in accordance with the
provisions of this Article.

2.2

The levy shall be assessed by the Board separately in respect of each
construction establishment of an employer, but in agreement with the employer
one assessment may be made in respect of any number of such establishments in
which case those establishments shall be deemed for the purposes of that
assessment to constitute one establishment.

2.3

Subject to the provisions of this Article, the amount of the levy imposed on
an employer in respect of a construction establishment shall be equal to 0.55
per cent. of the relevant earnings paid and payable to or in respect of all
persons employed by the employer at or from that establishment—

2.3.a

in the fifty-ninth base period; or

2.3.b

where an election is made in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (4)
in the alternative fifty-ninth base period,

and no remission for the levy shall be given to an employer.

2.4

An election shall be made in writing and shall be in such form and made within
such period as the Board may with the approval of the Department determine.

2.5

There shall be exempt from the levy—

2.5.a

an employer in relation to whom the relevant earnings paid or payable to or in
respect of all persons in his employment in the fifty-ninth base period are
less than £80,000 or in the case of two or more construction establishments
where the relevant earnings of all the persons employed in all such
establishments are less than £80,000; or

2.5.b

an employer who has made an election in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph (4) in relation to whom the relevant earnings paid or payable to or
in respect of all persons in his employment in the alternative fifty-ninth
base period are less than £80,000 or in the case of two or more construction
establishments where the relevant earnings of all the persons employed in all
such establishments are less than £80,000.

2.6

The amount of the levy imposed in respect of a construction establishment that
ceases to carry on business in the fifty-ninth levy period shall be in the
same proportion to the amount that would otherwise be due under paragraph (3)
as the number of days between the commencement of the said levy period and the
date of cessation of business (both dates inclusive) bears to the number of
days in the said levy period.

2.7

In reckoning the amount of the relevant earnings for the purposes of this
Article no regard shall be had to the earnings of any person engaged wholly in
the supply of food or drink for immediate consumption.

### Assessment notices

3

3.1

The Board shall serve an assessment notice on every employer assessed to the
levy but one notice may comprise two or more assessments.

3.2

Where an election has been made, the Board may serve two or more assessment
notices in respect of any establishment but—

3.2.a

the interval between such assessment notices shall be not less than four
months; and

3.2.b

the amount of the assessment included in each such notice shall not exceed the
portion of the levy which has accrued at the date of the notice, and each
notice shall specify the period to which the assessment included therein
relates.

3.3

The amount of any assessment payable under an assessment notice shall be
rounded down to the nearest £1.

3.4

An assessment notice shall state the Board’s address for the service of a
notice of appeal or of an application for an extension of time for appealing.

3.5

An assessment notice may be served on the person assessed to the levy either
by delivering it to him personally or by leaving it, or sending it to him by
post, at his last known address or place of business in the United Kingdom,
or, if that person is a corporation, by leaving it, or sending it by post to
the corporation, at such address or place of business or at its registered or
principal office.

### Payment of the levy

4

4.1

Subject to the provisions of this Article and of Articles 5 and 6 the amount
of each assessment appearing in an assessment notice served by the Board shall
be due and payable to the Board in two instalments and the said instalments
shall be due respectively on 1st October 2023 and 1st February 2024.

4.2

Where an election has been made the amount of the assessment appearing in each
assessment notice shall be payable to the Board in one instalment due one
month after the date of the notice.

4.3

An instalment of an assessment shall not be recoverable by the Board until
there has expired the time allowed for appealing against the assessment by
Article 6(1) and any further period of time that the Board or an industrial
tribunal may have allowed for appealing under Article 6(2) or 6(3) or, where
an appeal is brought, until the appeal is decided or withdrawn.

### Withdrawal of assessment

5

5.1

The Board may, by a notice served on the person assessed to the levy in the
same manner as an assessment notice, withdraw an assessment if that person has
appealed against that assessment under the provisions of Article 6 and the
appeal has not been entered in the Register of Appeals kept under the
regulations specified in Article 6(5).

5.2

The withdrawal of an assessment shall be without prejudice to the power of the
Board to serve a further assessment notice in respect of any establishment to
which that assessment related and where the withdrawal is made by reason of
the fact that an establishment has ceased to carry on business in the fifty-
ninth levy period, the said notice may provide that the whole amount payable
thereunder shall be due one month after the date of the notice.

### Appeals

6

6.1

A person assessed to the levy may appeal to an industrial tribunal against the
assessment within one month from the date of the service of the assessment
notice or within any further period of time that may be allowed by the Board
or an industrial tribunal under the following provisions of the Article.

6.2

The Board for good cause may, by notice, extend the time within which an
appeal may be made by such further period as the Board may allow in any case
where an application for such extension is made within a period of four months
from the date of the service of the relevant notice of assessment or, where an
extension has already been granted, before the period of such extension has
expired.

6.3

If the Board shall not allow an application for extension of time for
appealing, an industrial tribunal shall, upon application to the tribunal by
the person assessed to the levy within the period of fourteen days from the
date of receipt of the decision of the Board refusing such an application,
have the like powers as the Board under paragraph (2).

6.4

In the case of an establishment that ceases to carry on business in the fifty-
ninth levy period on any day after the date of service of the relevant
assessment notice the foregoing provisions of this Article shall have effect
as if for the period of four months from the date of this service of the
assessment notice mentioned in paragraph (2) there were substituted the period
of six months from the date of the cessation of the business.

6.5

An application to an industrial tribunal under this Article shall be made in
accordance with the Industrial Tribunals and Fair Employment Tribunal
(Constitution and Rules of Procedure) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2020 .

### Evidence

7

Upon the discharge by a person assessed to the levy of his liability under an
assessment the Board shall if so requested issue to him a certificate to that
effect.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for the Economy on 20th
June 2023.         Mike Brennan   Permanent Secretary for the Department for
the Economy

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order gives effect to proposals submitted by the Construction Industry
Training Board to the Department for the Economy for the imposition of a
further levy upon employers in the construction industry for the purpose of
raising money towards the expenses of the Board.

  The levy is to be imposed in respect of the fifty-ninth levy period,
commencing on 1st September 2023 and ending on 31st August 2024. The levy will
be assessed by the Board and will be payable in two instalments. There will be
a right of appeal against an assessment to an industrial tribunal.

  The levy rate of 0.55% in respect of relevant earnings remains the same as
the rate operating during the preceding levy period which expires on 31st
August 2023 (see Industrial Training Levy (Construction Industry) Order
(Northern Ireland) 2022 ( S.R. 2022 No. 184 )).

  As in the previous levy period there will be no remission of levy given to
employers in the industry.

  An employer will be exempt from levy in the fifty-ninth levy period where
the relevant earnings are less than £80,000.

