Title: The Local Government Finance (Scotland) Order 2023
Date: 2024-06-28
Description: This Order—determines the amount of the revenue support grant payable to each local authority in Scotland in respect of the financial year 2023-2024 (article 2 and schedule 1),determines the amount of non-domestic rate income to be distributed to each local authority in respect of that year (article 3 and schedule 1),redetermines the amount of the revenue support grant payable to each local authority in respect of the financial year 2022-2023 (article 4 and schedule 2), andmakes consequential revocations of article 2 and column 2 of schedule 1 of the Local Government Finance (Scotland) Order 2022, which previously determined the amount of revenue support grant payable to each local authority in respect of the financial year 2022-2023 (article 5).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2023/68

## The Local Government Finance (Scotland) Order 2023

    Local Government

  Made   2nd March 2023

  Coming into force   3rd March 2023

      The Scottish Ministers make the following Order in exercise of the
powers conferred by paragraphs 1 and 9(4) of schedule 12 of the Local
Government Finance Act 1992  and all other powers enabling them to do so.
In accordance with paragraph 2(2) of that schedule, they have consulted with
such associations of local authorities as appear to them to be appropriate.
In accordance with paragraph 2(3) of that schedule , a draft of this Order has
been laid before, and approved by resolution of, the Scottish Parliament.

### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the Local Government Finance (Scotland) Order 2023
and comes into force on the day after the day on which it is made.

### Revenue support grant for 2023-2024

2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Distribution of non-domestic rate income for 2023-2024

3

3.1

The distributable amount of non-domestic rate income arrived at under
paragraph 9 of schedule 12 of the Local Government Finance Act 1992 in respect
of the financial year 2023-2024 is £3,047,000,000.

3.2

The local authorities among whom the distributable amount of non-domestic rate
income is distributed in respect of the financial year 2023-2024 are specified
in column 1 of schedule 1.

3.3

The amount of non-domestic rate income distributed to each local authority
specified in column 1 of schedule 1 in respect of the financial year 2023-2024
is the amount set out in column 3 of that schedule opposite the name of that
local authority.

### Redetermination of revenue support grant for 2022-2023

4

4.1

The local authorities to which revenue support grant is payable in respect of
the financial year 2022-2023 are specified in column 1 of schedule 2.

4.2

The amount of revenue support grant payable to each local authority specified
in column 1 of schedule 2 in respect of the financial year 2022-2023 is the
amount set out in column 2 of that schedule opposite the name of that local
authority.

### Revocations

5

Article 2 and column 2 of schedule 1 of the Local Government Finance
(Scotland) Order 2022  are revoked.

      TOM ARTHUR   Authorised to sign by the Scottish Ministers     St
Andrew’s House,   Edinburgh       2nd March 2023

REVENUE SUPPORT GRANT AND DISTRIBUTION OF NON‑DOMESTIC RATE INCOME 2023-2024

Articles 2 and 3

Column 1 Local Authority ... Column 3 Amount of non-domestic rate income £m
Aberdeen City . . . 257.797 Aberdeenshire . . . 134.839 Angus . . . 27.934
Argyll & Bute . . . 37.645 Clackmannanshire . . . 17.764 Dumfries & Galloway .
. . 60.313 Dundee City . . . 73.704 East Ayrshire . . . 30.467 East
Dunbartonshire . . . 24.099 East Lothian . . . 58.108 East Renfrewshire . . .
15.695 Edinburgh, City of . . . 377.317 Eilean Siar . . . 9.106 Falkirk . . .
75.322 Fife . . . 172.108 Glasgow City . . . 358.472 Highland . . . 156.979
Inverclyde . . . 21.333 Midlothian . . . 35.215 Moray . . . 55.314 North
Ayrshire . . . 43.955 North Lanarkshire . . . 121.640 Orkney Islands . . .
11.473 Perth & Kinross . . . 60.754 Renfrewshire . . . 131.323 Scottish
Borders . . . 37.818 Shetland Islands . . . 24.302 South Ayrshire . . . 47.708
South Lanarkshire . . . 341.536 Stirling . . . 45.636 West Dunbartonshire . .
. 93.396 West Lothian . . . 87.928 Scotland Total . . . 3,047.000

  REVENUE SUPPORT GRANT 2022-2023

Article 4

          Column 1       Local Authority         Column 2       Amount of
revenue support grant       £m       Aberdeen City 135.772 Aberdeenshire
372.924 Angus 220.480 Argyll & Bute 191.979 Clackmannanshire 95.864 Dumfries &
Galloway 291.937 Dundee City 315.925 East Ayrshire 255.745 East Dunbartonshire
210.391 East Lothian 182.376 East Renfrewshire 205.587 Edinburgh, City of
654.430 Eilean Siar 97.813 Falkirk 260.070 Fife 609.335 Glasgow City 1,159.207
Highland 397.858 Inverclyde 179.255 Midlothian 169.732 Moray 142.533 North
Ayrshire 289.389 North Lanarkshire 635.874 Orkney Islands 60.701 Perth &
Kinross 259.507 Renfrewshire 271.055 Scottish Borders 216.297 Shetland Islands
48.429 South Ayrshire 216.211 South Lanarkshire 254.817 Stirling 165.248 West
Dunbartonshire 114.402 West Lothian 306.229 Scotland Total   8,987.373

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order—     a     determines the amount of the revenue support grant
payable to each local authority in Scotland in respect of the financial year
2023-2024 (article 2 and schedule 1),         b     determines the amount of
non-domestic rate income to be distributed to each local authority in respect
of that year (article 3 and schedule 1),         c     redetermines the amount
of the revenue support grant payable to each local authority in respect of the
financial year 2022-2023 (article 4 and schedule 2), and         d     makes
consequential revocations of article 2 and column 2 of schedule 1 of the Local
Government Finance (Scotland) Order 2022, which previously determined the
amount of revenue support grant payable to each local authority in respect of
the financial year 2022-2023 (article 5).

