Title: The School Teachers’ Pay and Conditions (No. 2) (Wales) Order 2023
Date: 2024-11-12
Description: This Order makes provision for the determination of the remuneration of school teachers (within the meaning of section 122 of the Education Act 2002 (c. 32)) in Wales and other conditions of employment of school teachers in Wales which relate to their professional duties and working time.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2023/1067

## The School Teachers’ Pay and Conditions (No. 2) (Wales) Order 2023

    Education, Wales

  Made   5 October 2023

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   6 October 2023

  Coming into force   28 October 2023

      The Welsh Ministers, in exercise of the powers conferred on the
Secretary of State by sections 122(1), 123 and 124 of the Education Act 2002 ,
and now vested in them , make the following Order.           The Welsh
Ministers in accordance with section 126  of that Act have consulted such of
the persons and bodies referred to in that section as appeared to the Welsh
Ministers to be appropriate.

### Title, commencement, application and interpretation


1

1.1

The title of this Order is the School Teachers’ Pay and Conditions (No. 2)
(Wales) Order 2023 and it comes into force on 28 October 2023.

1.2

This Order applies to school teachers in Wales.

1.3

In this Order—

      “ the 2022 Document ” (“ Dogfen 2022 ”) means the document entitled
“School Teachers’ Pay and Conditions (Wales) Document 2022 and guidance on
school teachers’ pay and conditions (revised) – September 2023” and published
on the gov.wales website ;           “ the 2023 Document ” (“ Dogfen 2023 ”)
means the document entitled “School Teachers’ Pay and Conditions (Wales)
Document 2023 and guidance on school teachers’ pay and conditions” and
published on the gov.wales website;           “ school teacher ” (“ athro neu
athrawes ysgol ”) has the meaning given by section 122(3) to (6) of the
Education Act 2002.

### The 2022 Document and the 2023 Document


2

2.1

For the purposes specified in paragraph (2)—

2.1.a

the provisions set out in section 2 of the 2022 Document have effect for the
period beginning with 1 September 2022 and ending with 31 August 2023, and

2.1.b

the provisions set out in section 2 of the 2023 Document have effect on and
after 1 September 2023.

2.2

The purposes referred to in paragraph (1) are the purposes of determining—

2.2.a

the remuneration of school teachers, and

2.2.b

other conditions of employment of school teachers which relate to their
professional duties and working time.

### Revocation


3

The School Teachers’ Pay and Conditions (Wales) Order 2023  is revoked.

      Jeremy Miles   Minister for Education and Welsh Language, one of the
Welsh Ministers     5 October 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order makes provision for the determination of the remuneration of
school teachers (within the meaning of section 122 of the Education Act  2002
(c. 32) ) in Wales and other conditions of employment of school teachers in
Wales which relate to their professional duties and working time.

  The Order makes this provision by reference to—     a     section 2 of a
document entitled “School Teachers’ Pay and Conditions (Wales) Document 2022
and guidance on school teachers’ pay and conditions (revised) – September
2023” (“ the 2022 Document ”) for the period beginning with 1 September 2022
and ending with 31 August 2023, and         b     section 2 of a document
entitled “ School Teachers’ Pay and Conditions (Wales) Document 2023 and
guidance on school teachers’ pay and conditions ” (“ the 2023 Document ”) on
and after 1 September 2023.

  The 2022 Document and the 2023 Document can be found on the Welsh Government
website:  https://gov.wales/teaching-and-leadership .

  The Order makes retrospective provision, under section 123(3) of the
Education Act 2002, to provide that—     a     the provisions set out in
section 2 of the 2022 Document have effect for the period beginning with 1
September 2022 and ending with 31 August 2023, and         b     the
provisions set out in section 2 of the 2023 Document have effect on and after
1 September 2023,

  even though the Order comes into force after those dates (article 2).

  The Order revokes the School Teachers’ Pay and Conditions Order (Wales) 2023
(article 3) and replaces the remuneration and other conditions of employment
of school teachers in Wales given effect by that Order.

  The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory
Impact Assessments was considered in relation to this Order. As a result, a
regulatory impact assessment has been prepared as to the likely costs and
benefits of complying with this Order. A copy can be obtained from the
Workforce Strategy Unit, Pedagogy, Leadership and Professional Learning
Division, Welsh Government, Cathays Park, Cardiff, CF10 3NQ.

