Title: The Deposit and Return Scheme for Scotland Amendment Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-03-25
Description: These Regulations amend the Deposit and Return Scheme for Scotland Regulations 2020 (“the 2020 Regulations”) which make provision for the operation of a deposit and return scheme. These Regulations come into force on the day after the day on which they are made.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2023/201

## The Deposit and Return Scheme for Scotland Amendment Regulations 2023

    Environmental Protection

  Made   29th June 2023

  Coming into force   30th June 2023

      The Scottish Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred on them by sections 84, 89, 90 and 96(2) of the Climate
Change (Scotland) Act 2009  and all other powers enabling them to do so.
In accordance with section 84(6) of that Act, the Scottish Ministers consider
that it is expedient to make these Regulations for the purpose of promoting
and securing an increase in the recycling of materials.           In
accordance with section 96(4) of the 2009 Act, a draft of this instrument has
been laid before, and approved by resolution of, the Scottish Parliament.

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Deposit and Return Scheme for Scotland
Amendment Regulations 2023 and come into force on the day after the day on
which these Regulations are made.

### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations “ the 2020 Regulations ” means the Deposit and Return
Scheme for Scotland Regulations 2020 .

### Amendment of the 2020 Regulations

3

The 2020 Regulations are amended in accordance with regulations 4 to 22.

### Amendment of commencement date

4

In regulation 1(5)  (citation and commencement), for “16 August 2023”
substitute  “1 March 2024” .

### Interpretation

5

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation)—

5.a

after the definition of “hospitality retailer”, insert—

      “ listed producer ” means a producer that has provided information to
SEPA in accordance with paragraphs 5 to 8 of schedule 5, and “ listing ” is to
be construed accordingly,”,           “ low volume drink product  ” means a
drink (regardless of whether it is sold alone or as part of a multipack) that—
meets the criteria in sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of the definition of
“scheme article” in regulation 3(2),           the producer markets, offers
for sale or sells for the purpose of its retail sale in Scotland in a quantity
of less than 5000 units in a relevant year,

,

5.b

in the definition of “PET plastic”, for “polyethelene” substitute
“polyethylene” ,

5.c

for the definition of “producer”, substitute—

      “ producer ”, in relation to a—         scheme article, has the meaning
given in regulation 6(A1) to (2),           low volume drink product, has the
meaning given in paragraphs 1 to 4 of schedule 5,

.

### Scheme articles and scheme packaging

6

In regulation 3(2) (scheme articles and scheme packaging) in the definition of
“scheme article”—

6.a

in sub-paragraph (a)(ii)(aa), for “50” substitute  “100” ,

6.b

in sub-paragraph (b), for “16 August 2023” substitute  “1 March 2024” ,

6.c

at the end of sub-paragraph (b), omit “and”,

6.d

at the end of sub-paragraph (c), insert—

“, and

6.d.d

is not a low volume drink product

.

### Low volume drink products

7

After regulation 3 (scheme articles and scheme packaging), insert—

####### Low volume drink products

7.3A

7.3A.1

A person may only market, offer for sale or sell a low volume drink product to
a consumer in Scotland if the producer is a—

7.3A.1.a

listed producer, or

7.3A.1.b

registered producer.

7.3A.2

For the purpose of paragraph (1), the following is to be regarded as the
person who markets, offers for sale or sells the low volume drink product—

7.3A.2.a

in the case of an online retail sale, the operator,

7.3A.2.b

in the case of a vending machine sale—

7.3A.2.b.i

where the machine is marked with the name and address of its owner, that
owner, or

7.3A.2.b.ii

otherwise, the person with the management and control of the premises on which
the machine stands or to which it is affixed.

7.3A.3

Any person who markets, offers for sale or sells a low volume drink product in
Scotland on or after 1 March 2024 must communicate to the purchaser at the
point of sale that—

7.3A.3.a

the product is not a scheme article to which the requirements of these
Regulations apply,

7.3A.3.b

an item of packaging in which that low volume drink product is contained or
sold cannot be returned in exchange for payment of a sum equal to a deposit.

7.3A.4

Schedule 5 makes further provision in relation to low volume drink products.

.

### Obligations relating to charging deposits and marketing, offering for sale or selling articles

8

In regulation 5 (obligations relating to charging deposits and marketing,
offering for sale or selling articles)—

8.a

in paragraph (3) , for “16 August 2023” substitute  “1 March 2024” ,

8.b

in paragraph (3A) , for “16 August 2023” substitute  “1 March 2024” .

### Amendment of application for registration as a producer

9

In regulation 7(2) (application for registration as a producer)—

9.a

in sub-paragraph (a), for “1 March in any relevant year” substitute  “12
January 2024” ,

9.b

after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

9.b.aa

before 1 March in any relevant year beginning on or after 1 January 2025,

.

### Amendment of producer registration

10

10.1

In regulation 8 (producer registration)—

10.1.a

before paragraph (1) insert—

10.1.a.A1

Within 42 days of receipt of an application made within the time limit
specified in regulation 7(2)(a), SEPA must—

10.1.a.A1.a

where the application complies with regulation 7(3) and SEPA is satisfied that
the applicant will comply with the obligations in regulation 10(1) and 11(1),
grant it, or

10.1.a.A1.b

otherwise, refuse it.

,

10.1.b

in paragraph (1), for “during any relevant year” substitute  “made during any
relevant year beginning on or after 1 January 2025” ,

10.1.c

in paragraph (4),—

10.1.c.i

in sub-paragraph (a), for “1 April in a relevant year” substitute  “1 March
2024” ,

10.1.c.ii

after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

10.1.c.ii.aa

1 April in any subsequent relevant year, where the application was made within
the time limit specified in regulation 7(2)(aa),

.

### Cancellation of registration of producers

11

In regulation 9(1)(c) (cancellation of registration of producers), for
“regulation 7(2)(a)” substitute  “regulation 7(2)(aa)” .

### Retailer obligations

12

In regulation 19 (retailer obligations)—

12.a

for paragraph (2)(e) substitute—

12.a.e

a retailer whose number of sales of scheme articles to consumers for
consumption on the premises of sale constitute ninety per cent or more of that
retailer’s total number of sales of scheme articles to consumers (excluding
distance retail sales) in any calendar year,

.

12.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

12.b.3

A retailer that does not operate a return point by virtue of paragraph (2)(b)
to (e) must clearly display information at the retailer’s premises indicating—

12.b.3.a

that they are not required by virtue of these Regulations to operate a return
point, and

12.b.3.b

the location of the nearest return point.

12.b.4

A retailer that does not operate a return point by virtue of paragraph (2)(e)
must—

12.b.4.a

keep a record of the number of sales of scheme articles to consumers for
consumption off the premises of sale in each calendar year,

12.b.4.b

retain such a record for a minimum period of at least two years beginning 1
January following the end of the calendar year to which the record relates.

.

### Return points

13

In regulation 20 (return points)—

13.a

in paragraph (2), for “paragraph (4)” substitute  “paragraphs (4) and (5),

13.b

after paragraph (4)(f) insert—

,

13.b.g

the criteria specified in paragraph (5) are met.

13.b.5

The criteria specified are that—

13.b.5.a

the return point operator does not permit scheme articles that are made wholly
or partly of a particular type of material to be held on, or brought into, the
premises within which the return point is operated,

13.b.5.b

the item of scheme packaging is made wholly or partly of that type of
material,

13.b.5.c

the reason for the return point operator not permitting on the premises any
scheme articles made wholly or partly of that type of material is to ensure
that the return point operator is not at significant risk of being in breach
of any legal obligation relating to either of the following—

13.b.5.c.i

food safety,

13.b.5.c.ii

health and safety, and

13.b.5.d

in addition to the information referred to in paragraph (3), the return point
operator clearly displays information at the return point indicating—

13.b.5.d.i

that the return point does not accept items of scheme packaging made wholly or
partly of a particular type of material and the reason why,

13.b.5.d.ii

the nearest return point to which an item of scheme packaging made wholly or
partly of that type of material can be returned.

.

### Hospitality retailers

14

After regulation 20 insert—

####### Hospitality retailers

14.20A

A hospitality retailer must retain for collection by, or on behalf of, a
producer or a scheme administrator the scheme packaging in which scheme
articles were sold by that hospitality retailer for consumption on the
premises of sale.

.

### Takeback services

15

For regulation 21 (takeback services), substitute—

####### Takeback services

15.21

15.21.1

For the purpose of these Regulations, a “ takeback service ” means a service
provided by a large retailer enabling—

15.21.1.a

a reasonable number of items of scheme packaging in which scheme articles were
contained to be collected by or on behalf of that large retailer from the site
of delivery for the purposes of its return to—

15.21.1.a.i

that large retailer (including through a return point), or

15.21.1.a.ii

the producer, and

15.21.1.b

the payment to that consumer of a sum equal to the deposit for each item of
scheme packaging so collected and returned.

15.21.2

For the purpose of this regulation—

15.21.2.a

“ groceries ” means food (other than sold for consumption on the retailer’s
premises), pet food, drinks (alcoholic and non-alcoholic, other than sold for
consumption on the retailer’s premises), cleaning products, toiletries and
household goods, but excludes petrol, clothing, DIY products, financial
services, pharmaceuticals, newspapers, magazines, greetings cards, CDs, DVDs,
videos and audio tapes, toys, plants, flowers, perfumes, cosmetics, electrical
appliances, kitchen hardware, gardening equipment, books, tobacco and tobacco
products,

15.21.2.b

“ large retailer ” means a retailer with an annual turnover in the preceding
financial year exceeding £1 billion with respect to the retail supply of
groceries in the United Kingdom, or a subsidiary of a such a retailer,

15.21.2.c

“ reasonable number of items of scheme packaging ” means—

15.21.2.c.i

no fewer than 21 items,

15.21.2.c.ii

no more than a reasonable maximum number of items, taking into account the
method of collection and storage of scheme packaging used by the large
retailer.

15.21.3

Subject to paragraph (7), a large retailer must provide a takeback service
free of charge to a consumer that—

15.21.3.a

has purchased a scheme article from the large retailer through a distance
retail sale,

15.21.3.b

makes a request to the large retailer within 6 months of the purchase of a
scheme article for provision of a takeback service, and

15.21.3.c

states that they meet one of the eligibility criteria in paragraph (4).

15.21.4

The eligibility criteria are that the consumer—

15.21.4.a

has a disability within the meaning of section 6 of the Equality Act 2010 , or

15.21.4.b

is aged 66 or over.

15.21.5

A large retailer providing a takeback service must—

15.21.5.a

do so within 4 weeks following receipt of a request from a consumer in
accordance with paragraph (3)(b), and

15.21.5.b

clearly display information in any place where the scheme article is displayed
for sale indicating—

15.21.5.b.i

that the large retailer provides a free takeback service for consumers that
meet the eligibility criteria in paragraph (4),

15.21.5.b.ii

how the takeback service from the large retailer can be requested,

15.21.5.b.iii

the circumstances in which the return of an item of packaging may be refused
by the large retailer, and

15.21.5.b.iv

the complaints procedure and the contact details for receipt of any complaint
that may be made to that large retailer from a consumer concerning the
provision of a takeback service.

15.21.6

A large retailer may refuse to provide a takeback service in relation to an
item of packaging if—

15.21.6.a

it is not identifiable as scheme packaging,

15.21.6.b

it is soiled,

15.21.6.c

it is not intact, or

15.21.6.d

it is not empty.

15.21.7

A large retailer providing a takeback service may apply a charge not exceeding
the cost of materials and labour used in respect of the collection and storage
of that scheme packaging, subject to the requirement to reimburse the consumer
in accordance with paragraph (8).

15.21.8

Unless paragraph (9) applies, a large retailer providing a takeback service
must—

15.21.8.a

pay to the consumer a sum equal to the deposit for each item of scheme
packaging returned to the large retailer or, as the case may be, the producer,
and

15.21.8.b

reimburse the consumer for any charge applied under paragraph (7).

15.21.9

This paragraph applies where—

15.21.9.a

the large retailer has refused to provide a takeback service under paragraph
(6) in relation to an item of packaging, and

15.21.9.b

the number of items of scheme packaging otherwise returned as part of the same
return to the large retailer is less than 21.

15.21.10

Where a takeback service is provided voluntarily by a retailer other than a
large retailer, that retailer must comply with the obligations of a large
retailer in this regulation.

.

### Right of appeal or review

16

In regulation 26(1) (right of appeal or review) insert at the end of sub-
paragraph (b)—

,

16.c

to cancel the listing of that producer under paragraph 13 of schedule 5

.

### Offences

17

In regulation 31 (offences)—

17.a

before paragraph (1)(a), insert—

17.a.za

regulation 3A(1),

17.a.zb

regulation 3A(3),

,

17.b

after paragraph (2)(e), insert—

,

17.b.f

an application for listing as a producer of a low volume product submitted in
accordance with paragraphs 5 to 8 of schedule 5,

17.b.g

a notification of any material change in accordance with paragraph 14(c) of
schedule 5,

17.b.h

a notification that a product is no longer a low volume drink product in
accordance with paragraph 14(d) of schedule 5

,

17.c

after paragraph (5), insert—

17.c.5A

It is an offence for a listed producer to fail, without reasonable excuse, to
comply with the obligations set out in paragraph 14(c), (d), (f) and (g) of
schedule 5.

,

17.d

in paragraph (8),—

17.d.i

in sub-paragraph (a)(ii), for “21(2)” substitute  “21(3)” ,

17.d.ii

after sub-paragraph (b), insert—

17.d.ii.ba

to fail to comply with regulation 19(3),

17.d.ii.bb

to fail to comply with regulation 19(4),

17.d.ii.bc

to fail to comply with regulation 20(5)(d),

17.d.ii.bd

to fail to comply with regulation 20A,

17.d.ii.be

to fail to comply with regulation 21(5)(a) and (b),

,

17.d.iii

in sub-paragraph (c), for “21(4)” substitute  “21(8)” ,

17.d.iv

after sub-paragraph (c) insert—

17.d.iv.ca

to fail to comply with regulation 21(10),

.

### Amendment of duty to review these regulations date

18

In regulation 32(1) (duty to review these regulations) for “1 October 2026”
substitute  “1 October 2027” .

### Producer registration: Information to be contained in an application for producer registration

19

In schedule 1 (producer registration: information to be contained in an
application for producer registration)—

19.a

paragraph 10, for “place on the market for” substitute  “market, offer for
sale or sell for the purposes of” ,

19.b

after paragraph 11, insert—

19.b.12

If the producer is also a producer of a low volume drink product—

19.b.12.a

relevant information that supports the identification of low volume drink
products first marketed, offered for sale or sold for the purposes of retail
sale in Scotland by that producer, including—

19.b.12.a.i

any trade mark or distinguishing marks placed on low volume drink products or
their packaging which assists in identifying the producer,

19.b.12.a.ii

any unique codes or marks designed to support the capture of data relating to
the low volume drink product (for example, a European Article Number).

19.b.12.b

the number of low volume drink products that share characteristics listed in
paragraph (a) first made available by that producer to be marketed, offered
for sale or sold for the purposes of retail sale in Scotland in the previous
calendar year,

19.b.12.c

the number of low volume drink products that the producer anticipates it will
market, offer for sale or sell for the purposes of retail sale in Scotland in
the calendar year in which the producer is registered.

.

### Amendment of collection targets

20

In paragraph 1 of schedule 3 (collection targets)—

20.a

in sub-paragraph (b), for “beginning 1 January 2024 and ending 31 December
2024” substitute  “beginning 1 January 2025 and ending 31 December 2025” ,

20.b

in sub-paragraph (c), for “1 January 2025” substitute  “1 January 2026” .

### Low volume drink products

21

After schedule 4 (registration of a voluntary return point: information to be
contained in an application for registration) insert the schedule contained in
the schedule of these Regulations.

### Transitional provision

22

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

      LORNA SLATER   Authorised to sign by the Scottish Ministers     St
Andrew’s House,   Edinburgh       29th June 2023

  INSERTION OF SCHEDULE 5 OF THE 2020 REGULATIONS

Regulation 21

  LOW VOLUME DRINK PRODUCTS

######## Producer of a low volume drink product

1

A producer in respect of a low volume drink product which meets the conditions
set out in paragraph 2 is the person who markets, offers for sale or sells a
low volume drink product to a consumer in Scotland (“the low volume drink
product retailer”).

2

The conditions are that—

2.a

an item of packaging, in which that low volume drink product is contained or
sold, is filled and sealed by the low volume drink product retailer, and

2.b

the low volume drink product is sold by the low volume drink product retailer
to a consumer for consumption in any place other than on the premises of sale.

3

A producer in respect of any other low volume drink product is—

3.a

in the case of a low volume drink product branded in the United Kingdom, the
brand owner,

3.b

in the case of a low volume drink product branded by a brand owner outside the
United Kingdom, the importer.

4

The operator in respect of an online retail sale is to be regarded as the
importer for the purposes of paragraph 3 where a low volume drink product is
being sold—

4.a

for the first time in the United Kingdom,

4.b

to a consumer in Scotland, and

4.c

by way of a retail sale.

######## Application to be listed by producer of a low volume drink product

5

An application must be made by a producer of a low volume drink product to
SEPA to be listed as a producer of a low volume drink product.

6

An application under paragraph 5 must be made—

6.a

before 12 January 2024,

6.b

before 1 March in any subsequent relevant year,

6.c

within 28 days of becoming a producer of a low volume product drink.

7

A application under paragraph 5 must be made in writing and contain the
following information—

7.a

the information set out in paragraphs 1 to 6 of schedule 1,

7.b

relevant information that supports the identification of low volume drink
products first marketed, offered for sale or sold for the purposes of retail
sale in Scotland by that producer, including—

7.b.i

any trade mark or distinguishing marks placed on low volume drink products or
their packaging which assists in identifying the producer,

7.b.ii

any unique codes or marks designed to support the capture of data relating to
the low volume drink product (for example, a European Article Number),

7.c

the number of low volume drink products that share characteristics listed in
sub-paragraph (b) first made available by that producer to be marketed,
offered for sale or sold for the purposes of retail sale in Scotland in the
previous calendar year,

7.d

the number of low volume drink products which the producer anticipates it will
market, offer for sale or sell for the purposes of retail sale in Scotland in
the calendar year in which the application for listing is being made.

8

A application under paragraph 5 must be accompanied by a fee of £365, unless
the producer—

8.a

has a taxable turnover of £85,000 or less in the previous financial year, or

8.b

is a producer only by virtue of paragraph 1.

9

9.1

Within 42 days of receipt of an application made within the time limit
specified in paragraph 6(a), SEPA must—

9.1.a

where the application complies with paragraph 7, grant it, or

9.1.b

otherwise, refuse it.

9.2

Within 28 days of receipt of an application made within the time limit
specified in paragraph 6(b) or (c), SEPA must—

9.2.a

where the application complies with paragraph 7, grant it, or

9.2.b

otherwise, refuse it.

9.3

Where an application is granted, SEPA must, within 7 days of the date on which
it is granted, give notice of that decision in writing to the producer.

9.4

Where an application has been granted, the listing takes effect from the
relevant date in paragraph 10 until the date on which the producer’s listing
is cancelled in accordance with paragraph 13.

10

The date for the purposes of paragraph 9(4) is—

10.a

1 March 2024, where the application was made within the time limit specified
in paragraph 6(a),

10.b

1 April in a relevant year, where the application was made within the time
limit specified in paragraph 6(b),

10.c

the date the application was received by SEPA, where the application was made
within the time limit specified in paragraph 6(c),

10.d

the date specified by SEPA in the notice provided in accordance with paragraph
9(2) in any other case.

11

SEPA must publish and maintain a list of listed producers in such manner as it
considers appropriate.

12

Where an application is refused, SEPA must, within 7 days of the date on which
it is refused, give notice of that decision in writing to the producer
together with—

12.a

the reasons for it,

12.b

a statement as to the right of appeal under Part 6.

######## Cancellation of listing of producer of a low volume drink product

13

13.1

SEPA may cancel the listing of a producer where it appears to it that—

13.1.a

a producer is in breach of any of the obligations of a listed producer
specified in paragraph 14,

13.1.b

a producer has failed to submit an application in accordance with paragraph
6(b),

13.1.c

an application of that producer has been refused,

13.1.d

the producer knowingly or recklessly supplied false information in connection
with an application.

13.2

SEPA must cancel the listing of a producer where it is informed under
paragraph 14(d) or (e) that the producer has ceased to be a producer of low
volume drink products.

13.3

Before cancelling the listing under sub-paragraph (1), SEPA must serve written
notice on the producer of—

13.3.a

the decision to cancel and the reasons for it,

13.3.b

the date when the cancellation is intended to take effect, not being earlier
than the time limit for making an appeal against the decision provided for in
Part 6,

13.3.c

the opportunity to make representations to SEPA and the deadline for receipt
of such representations, and

13.3.d

the right of appeal under Part 6.

13.4

SEPA must consider any representations made by the producer before
cancellation takes effect and may withdraw the notice at any time before it
takes effect.

13.5

The date when the cancellation takes effect must not be earlier than—

13.5.a

in the case of cancellation under sub-paragraph (1), the expiration of the
time limit for making an appeal against the decision provided for in Part 6,

13.5.b

in the case of cancellation under sub-paragraph (2), 28 days from the date of
the notification from the producer in accordance with paragraph 14(d) or (e),

13.5.c

in the case where an application for appeal against the decision is submitted
and the decision to cancel that producer’s listing is upheld, the date that
the producer receives notification under regulation 27(7).

######## Obligations of listed producer of a low volume drink product

14

A listed producer must—

14.a

submit any subsequent application for listing within the time limits in
paragraph 6,

14.b

provide any information reasonably requested by SEPA with regard to the
information specified in paragraph 7,

14.c

notify SEPA of any material change in the information provided in accordance
with paragraph 7 within 28 days of the date of the change,

14.d

notify SEPA in writing, within 28 days of becoming aware of the change, that a
product is no longer a low volume drink product because the producer markets,
offers for sale or sells for the purpose of its retail sale in Scotland that
product in a quantity of more than 5000 units in a relevant year,

14.e

notify SEPA in writing where the producer wishes to cancel the listing or has
ceased to be a producer of low volume drink products in respect of a relevant
year,

14.f

collect and keep for at least four years from the date on which the
information is collected a record of the information specified in paragraph
7(b), (c) and (d),

14.g

provide that information to SEPA in such form and at such intervals as SEPA
may require.

######## Interpretation

15

In this schedule—

      “ brand owner ” means the person who, in the course of a trade,
business, craft or profession puts a name, trade mark or other distinguishing
mark on a low volume drink product or packaging, in which that low volume
drink product is contained or sold, by which the person is held out to be a
manufacturer or the originator of the low volume drink product, and “ branded
” is to be construed accordingly,           “ importer ” means the person who,
in the course of a trade, business, craft or profession, first markets, offers
for sale or sells the low volume drink product in the United Kingdom.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Deposit and Return Scheme for Scotland
Regulations 2020 (“ the 2020 Regulations ”) which make provision for the
operation of a deposit and return scheme. These Regulations come into force on
the day after the day on which they are made.

  Regulation 2 defines the 2020 Regulations for the purposes of these
Regulations.

  Regulation 4 amends the date in regulation 1(5) of the 2020 Regulations (the
date on which parts 2, 7 and 8, and certain provisions in Part 5, of the 2020
Regulations come into force).

  Regulation 5 inserts a definition of a large retailer, a listed producer and
a low volume drink product into regulation 2(1) of the 2020 Regulations and
amends the definition of producer. Regulation 6 amends the definition of
scheme article in the 2020 Regulations.

  Regulation 7 inserts a new regulation 3A into the 2020 Regulations which
prohibits the marketing or sale (including through online retail or vending
machine sales to a consumer in Scotland) of a low volume drink product, unless
the producer is listed or registered with SEPA. The seller must also inform
the purchaser that the product is not a scheme article.

  Regulation 8 amends regulation 5 of the 2020 Regulations so that the
obligations there take effect from 1 March 2024. Regulation 9 amends the dates
by which a producer must apply for registration under regulation 7 of the 2020
Regulations. Regulation 10 amends the dates from which a registration takes
effect under regulation 8 of the 2020 Regulations. Regulation 11 is a
consequential change to amend the reference to the registration date.

  Regulation 12 amends regulation 19 of the 2020 Regulations to provide an
exemption from operating a return point if the retailer sells ninety or more
per cent of scheme articles for consumption on the premises of sale; a new
requirement is placed on retailers exempt under regulation 19 to display
information that the premises are exempt.

  Regulation 13 amends regulation 20 of the 2020 Regulations to allow a return
point operator to refuse the return of items of scheme packaging wholly or
partly made of a particular material to ensure the return point operator is
not at significant risk of being in breach of any legal obligation relating to
food safety or health and safety. Regulation 14 inserts regulation 20A to
require hospitality retailers to retain scheme packaging for collection by, or
on behalf of, a producer or a scheme administrator.

  Regulation 15 substitutes regulation 21 of the 2020 Regulations with a new
regulation to require large retailers selling scheme articles by means of
distance retail sales to provide a takeback service to consumers who meet
certain criteria, to enable those consumers to return items of scheme
packaging.

  Regulation 16 amends regulation 26 to add a right of appeal to the Scottish
Ministers if SEPA refuses an application for listing of a producer of a low
volume drink product.

  Regulation 17 inserts new offences into regulation 31 of the 2020
Regulations in relation to the new obligations contained in regulations 3A(1)
and (3), 19(3) and (4), 20(5)(d), 20A, 21(3), (5)(a) and (b), (8) and (10),
and paragraphs 5 to 8 and 14(c), (d), (f) and (g) of schedule 5 of the 2020
Regulations (as either inserted or amended by these Regulations).

  Regulation 18 amends the date by which the 2020 Regulations must be
reviewed.

  Regulation 19 amends schedule 1 to allow registered producers to provide
information to SEPA in relation to low volume drink products.

  Regulation 20 amends paragraph 1 of schedule 3 so that the collection target
of the first full year of the scheme is 80% and the target for subsequent
years is 90%.

  Regulation 21 inserts a new schedule 5 to make provision in relation to low
volume drink products.

  Regulation 22 makes transitional provision for applications for producer
registration received by SEPA before the coming into force of these
Regulations.

  An update to the Business Regulatory Impact Assessment will be published by
the Scottish Government online at  gov.scot .

