Title: The International Organisations (Tax Exemptions Designation) Order 2023
Date: 2024-02-19
Description: This Order provides for the limited exemptions from income tax, capital gains tax, inheritance tax, stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax contained in section 126 of the Finance Act 1984, section 265 of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 and section 774 of the Income Tax (Trading and Other Income) Act 2005 to be given in respect of securities issued by the Caribbean Development Bank, Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, and Inter-American Investment Corporation, international organisations of which the United Kingdom is a member. These exemptions are conferred in accordance with international law obligations under:Article 55(6) of the Agreement establishing the Caribbean Development Bank (Cmnd 4358), done at Kingston, Jamaica on 18th October 1969 and which entered into force for the United Kingdom on 26th January 1970,Article 51(3) of the Agreement establishing the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (Cm 9198), done at Beijing on 29th June 2015 and which entered into force for the United Kingdom on 25th December 2015, andsection 9(c) of Article VII of the Agreement establishing the Inter-American Investment Corporation (Cm 9659), done at Washington DC on 19th November 1984 and which entered into force for the United Kingdom on 1st March 2023.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/348

## The International Organisations (Tax Exemptions Designation) Order 2023

    Taxes

  Made   21st March 2023

      The Treasury, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 126(1) of
the Finance Act 1984 , section 265(1) of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act
1992 , section 73A(1) of the Finance Act 2004 , section 774(5) of the Income
Tax (Trading and Other Income) Act 2005  and section 979(1) of the Income Tax
Act 2007 , make the following Order:

### Citation

1

This Order may be cited as the International Organisations (Tax Exemptions
Designation) Order 2023.

### Designation of international organisations

2

2.1

The international organisations specified in   paragraph (3)   are designated
for the purposes of—

2.1.a

section 126 of the Finance Act 1984,

2.1.b

section 265 of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992, and

2.1.c

section 774 of the Income Tax (Trading and Other Income) Act 2005.

2.2

The international organisations specified in   paragraphs   (3)(b) and (3)(c)
are designated for the purposes of section 979 of the Income Tax Act 2007.

2.3

The international organisations are—

2.3.a

the Caribbean Development Bank, established by an agreement dated 18 October
1969 ,

2.3.b

the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, established by an agreement dated
29th June 2015 , and

2.3.c

the Inter-American Investment Corporation, established by an agreement dated
19th November 1984 .

2.4

The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, established by an
agreement dated 29th May 1990 , is designated for the purposes of section 73A
of the Finance Act 2004.

      Andrew Stephenson   Scott Mann   Two of the Lords Commissioners of Her
Majesty’s Treasury     21st March 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order provides for the limited exemptions from income tax, capital
gains tax, inheritance tax, stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax contained in
section 126 of the Finance Act 1984, section 265 of the Taxation of Chargeable
Gains Act 1992 and section 774 of the Income Tax (Trading and Other Income)
Act 2005 to be given in respect of securities issued by the Caribbean
Development Bank, Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, and Inter-American
Investment Corporation, international organisations of which the United
Kingdom is a member. These exemptions are conferred in accordance with
international law obligations under:     1     Article 55(6) of the Agreement
establishing the Caribbean Development Bank (Cmnd 4358), done at Kingston,
Jamaica on 18th October 1969 and which entered into force for the United
Kingdom on 26th January 1970,         2     Article 51(3) of the Agreement
establishing the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (Cm 9198), done at
Beijing on 29th June 2015 and which entered into force for the United Kingdom
on 25th December 2015, and         3     section 9(c) of Article VII of the
Agreement establishing the Inter-American Investment Corporation (Cm 9659),
done at Washington DC on 19th November 1984 and which entered into force for
the United Kingdom on 1st March 2023.

  This Order also provides for the exemption from obligations to deduct
amounts representing income tax in section 979 Income Tax Act 2007 to be given
in respect of securities issued by the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank
and the Inter-American Investment Corporation. These exemptions are conferred
in accordance with:     1     Article 51(1) of the Agreement establishing the
Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (Cm 9198), and         2     Section 9(a)
of Article VII of the Agreement establishing the Inter-American Investment
Corporation (Cm 9659).

  This Order also provides for the exemption from the obligation to deduct tax
under the Construction Industry Scheme in section 73A Finance Act 2004 to be
given in respect of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This
exemption is conferred in accordance with Article 53(7) of the Agreement
establishing the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Cm 1670),
done at Paris on 29th May 1990 and which entered into force for the United
Kingdom on 28th March 1991.

  A Tax Information and Impact Note has not been prepared for this instrument
as it gives effect to previously announced policy.

