Title: The Statutory Parental Bereavement Pay (General) (No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2024-06-04
Description: These Regulations exercise powers inserted into the Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 (c. 7) (the “1992 Act”) by the Parental Bereavement (Leave and Pay) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022 (c. 5).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/155

## The Statutory Parental Bereavement Pay (General) (No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

Regulations made by the Department for the Economy and laid before the
Assembly under section 172(1) of the Social Security Contributions and
Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 for approval of the Assembly before the
expiration of six months from the date of their coming into operation

Employment Parental Bereavement

Made 28th September 2023

Coming into operation 29th September 2023

The Department for the Economy makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 167ZZ9(3) and (4), 167ZZ10(2) and (4)(a) to
(g), 167ZZ11(2) and (3), 167ZZ12(1) to (5), (8) and (9), 167ZZ14(3),
167ZZ17(3) to (5), (7) and (8), and 171(3) and (4) of the Social Security
Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992  and sections 5(1)(g),
(j), (m) and (q), and 165(5) of the Social Security Administration (Northern
Ireland) Act 1992  and now vested in it , and section 3(1) and (2) of the
Parental Bereavement (Leave and Pay) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022  and with the
concurrence of the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs in so
far as such concurrence is required .

### GENERAL


#### Citation and Commencement


1

These Regulations may be cited as the Statutory Parental Bereavement Pay
(General) (No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come into
operation on 29th September 2023.

#### Application


2

These Regulations apply in respect of children who die on or after 6th April
2022.

#### Interpretation


3

3.1

In these Regulations—

“ the 1992 Act ” means the Social Security Contributions and Benefits
(Northern Ireland) Act 1992; “ adopter ” means a person who intends to adopt C
and to whom the Intercountry Adoption (Hague Convention) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2003  apply; “ approved foster parent ” means a person approved as a
foster parent by the authority under regulation 3 of the Foster Placement
(Children) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1996 ; “ approved prospective
adopter ” means a person considered by the authority by virtue of the Adoption
Agencies Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1989  to be a person suitable to adopt
a child; “ authority ” has the same meaning as in the Children (Northern
Ireland) Order 1995 ; “ C ” means the child in relation to whom an entitlement
to statutory parental bereavement pay arises; “ the Commissioners ” means the
Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs; “ intended parent ” means
a person who— has applied, or intended to apply during the period of 6 months
beginning with the day of C’s birth— with another person for an order under
section 54 (parental orders: two applicants) of the Human Fertilisation and
Embryology Act 2008  in respect of C; or as the sole applicant for an order
under section 54A (parental orders: one applicant) of that Act  in respect of
C; and expected the court to make such an order on that application in respect
of C; “ official notification ” means written notification, issued by or on
behalf of the relevant domestic authority, that it is prepared to issue a
certificate to the overseas authority concerned with the adoption of C, or has
issued a certificate and sent it to that authority, confirming, in either
case, that the adopter is eligible to adopt and has been assessed and approved
as being a suitable adoptive parent; “ placed for adoption ” means— placed for
adoption by virtue of regulation 12 of the Adoption Agencies Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 1989 ; placed by an authority with a person who is an
approved foster parent who is also an approved prospective adopter where the
authority— is considering adoption for C, or is satisfied that adoption is in
the best interests of C, and is considering whether that person would be a
suitable adoptive parent for C; placed for adoption under the Adoption and
Children Act 2002  or the Adoption and Children (Scotland) Act 2007 ; placed
in accordance with section 22C of the Children Act 1989  (ways in which looked
after children are to be accommodated and maintained) with a local authority
foster parent who is also a prospective adopter, following consideration in
accordance with subsection (9B)(c) of that section ; or placed in accordance
with section 81 of the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014  with a
prospective adopter, following consideration in accordance with subsection
(10) of that section; “ prospective adopter ” means a person who has been
approved as suitable to adopt a child and has been notified of that decision
in accordance with regulation 30B(4) of the Adoption Agencies Regulations 2005
or regulation 28(3) of the Adoption Agencies (Wales) Regulations 2005 ; “
relevant domestic authority ” means— in the case of an adopter to whom the
Intercountry Adoption (Hague Convention) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2003
apply, the Department of Health ; and in any other case, the Central Authority
designated in accordance with Article 6 of the Convention on Protection of
Children and Co-operation in respect of Intercountry Adoption, concluded at
the Hague on 29th May 1993; “ statutory parental bereavement pay ” means
statutory parental bereavement pay payable in accordance with Part 12ZD of the
1992 Act; “week”, except in Part 3, means a period of seven days ; “ week of
C’s death ” means the week, beginning with a Sunday, in which C dies.

3.2

In these Regulations—

3.2.a

references to a child include a child stillborn after twenty-four weeks of
pregnancy; and

3.2.b

references to the death of a child are to be read, in relation to a stillborn
child, as references to the birth of the child.

3.3

The Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  shall apply to these
Regulations as it applies to an Act of the Assembly (but see regulations 30 to
35); and the Interpretation Act 1978  shall not apply.

### ENTITLEMENT


#### Conditions of entitlement to statutory parental bereavement pay


4

4.1

The conditions prescribed under section 167ZZ9(3) of the 1992 Act (conditions
as to relationship with a child who has died) are that, at the date of C’s
death, the person is—

4.1.a

C’s parent;

4.1.b

C’s natural parent and named in an order made pursuant to section 51A(2)(a) of
the Adoption and Children Act 2002  or section 11(3)(aa) of the Children
(Scotland) Act 1995 , provided that such an order has not subsequently been
revoked or discharged;

4.1.c

a person with whom C has been placed for adoption, for so long as that
placement has not been disrupted as mentioned in paragraph (2);

4.1.d

an adopter—

4.1.d.i

with whom C was living; and

4.1.d.ii

who has received official notification in respect of C;

4.1.e

an intended parent of C;

4.1.f

C’s parent in fact; or

4.1.g

the partner of P.

4.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(c), a placement has been disrupted—

4.2.a

when C has been returned to the authority under Article 31(3) of the Adoption
(Northern Ireland) Order 1987 ;

4.2.b

when C has been returned under sections 31 to 35 of the Adoption and Children
Act 2002 ;

4.2.c

in Scotland, when C has been returned to the adoption agency, adoption society
or nominated person in accordance with section 25(6) of the Adoption and
Children (Scotland) Act 2007; or

4.2.d

when C’s placement—

4.2.d.i

with a local authority foster parent who is also a prospective adopter in
accordance with section 22C of the Children Act 1989  following consideration
in accordance with subsection (9B)(c) of that section; or

4.2.d.ii

with a prospective adopter in accordance with section 81 of the Social
Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014;

has been terminated.

4.3

Subject to paragraph (5), a person is C’s parent in fact if that person, for a
continuous period of at least four weeks ending with the day on which C dies—

4.3.a

lived with C in the person’s own home; and

4.3.b

had day to day responsibility for C’s care.

4.4

For the purposes of the continuous period mentioned in paragraph (3), no
account is to be taken of any absences of a temporary or intermittent nature.

4.5

A person is not to be regarded as C’s parent in fact if—

4.5.a

C is in the care of that person in premises in which any parent of C’s, or any
person who is not a parent of C’s but who has responsibility for C, is living;
or

4.5.b

that person was or is entitled to receive remuneration, whether by way of
wages or otherwise, in respect of the care of C.

4.6

A person has responsibility for C, for the purposes of paragraph (5)(a), if
the person has parental responsibility, within the meaning of Article 6 of the
Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995

4.7

For the purposes of paragraph (5)(b), the following payments are not to be
regarded as remuneration—

4.7.a

any fee or allowance paid by a local authority to a foster parent;

4.7.b

payments wholly or mainly intended to reimburse the person for expenses which
arise from, or are expected to arise from, the person’s care of C;

4.7.c

amounts received pursuant to the terms of a will, trust or similar instrument
which makes provision in respect of C’s care.

4.8

In this regulation—

4.8.a

“ P ” means any person who satisfies one of the conditions in paragraphs
(1)(a) to (f);

4.8.b

“ partner ” means a person (whether of a different sex or the same sex) who
lives with C and P in an enduring family relationship but is not a relative of
P of a kind specified in sub-paragraph (c);

4.8.c

the relatives of P referred to in sub-paragraph (b) are P’s parent,
grandparent, sister, brother, aunt or uncle;

4.8.d

references to relationships in sub-paragraph (c)—

4.8.d.i

are to relationships of the full blood or half blood or, in the case of an
adopted person, such of those relationships as would exist but for the
adoption; and

4.8.d.ii

include the relationship of a child with his adoptive, or former adoptive,
parents;

but do not include any other adoptive relationships.

#### Number of weeks of pay


5

The number of weeks in respect of which a person is entitled to payments of
statutory parental bereavement pay is two weeks.

#### Options in respect of payment of statutory parental bereavement pay


6

A person may choose for statutory parental bereavement pay to be paid in
respect of—

6.a

a single period of either one week or two weeks; or

6.b

discontinuous periods of a week each.

#### Qualifying period


7

The qualifying period for the purposes of section 167ZZ12(5) of the 1992 Act
(period within which statutory parental bereavement pay is payable) is a
period of 56 weeks beginning with the date of C’s death.

#### Notice and evidence requirements for statutory parental bereavement pay


8

8.1

The notice provided for in section 167ZZ10(1) of the 1992 Act (notice to be
given stating the week or weeks in respect of which payments are to be made)
must be given to whoever will be liable to pay statutory parental bereavement
pay—

8.1.a

before the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the first day of the
period in respect of which payment of statutory parental bereavement pay is to
be made; or

8.1.b

in a case where it is not reasonably practicable for the person to give the
notice in accordance with sub-paragraph (a), as soon as reasonably
practicable.

8.2

A person must provide evidence of entitlement to statutory parental
bereavement pay by providing in writing to whoever will be liable to pay
statutory parental bereavement pay—

8.2.a

the information specified in paragraph (3); and

8.2.b

a declaration that the person meets one of the conditions prescribed in
regulation 4(1).

8.3

The information referred to in paragraph (2)(a) is as follows—

8.3.a

the name of the person claiming the statutory parental bereavement pay; and

8.3.b

the date of C’s death.

8.4

The information referred to in paragraph (3) must be provided at the same time
as a notice is given under paragraph (1).

8.5

The declaration referred to in paragraph (2)(b) must be provided at the same
time as a notice is first given under paragraph (1) in respect of C’s death.

8.6

Where notice under paragraph (1) is given prior to the start of the week or
weeks specified in that notice, the person may withdraw that notice by giving
notice of withdrawal in writing to the person who will be liable to pay
statutory parental bereavement pay in the manner specified in paragraphs (7)
and (8).

8.7

Where the notice under paragraph (1) states two weeks in respect of which
statutory parental bereavement pay is to be paid, notice of withdrawal may be
given in relation to either one or both of those weeks, regardless of whether
those weeks are consecutive or non-consecutive.

8.8

Where the notice of withdrawal relates to a week which begins—

8.8.a

in Period A, it must be given no later than on the first day of that week; and

8.8.b

in Period B, it must be given no later than one week before the start of that
week.

8.9

In this regulation—

“ Period A ” means the period of 56 days beginning with the date of C’s death;
“ Period B ” means the period beginning the day after the end of Period A and
ending with the end of the period specified in regulation 7.

#### Cases where there is no liability to pay statutory parental bereavement pay


9

9.1

There is no liability to pay statutory parental bereavement pay to a person in
respect of any week—

9.1.a

during any part of which the person who is entitled to that pay is entitled to
statutory sick pay under Part 11 of the 1992 Act;

9.1.b

following that in which the person entitled to it has died; or

9.1.c

during any part of which the person who is entitled to that pay is detained in
legal custody (unless one of the circumstances in paragraph (2) applies) or
sentenced to a term of imprisonment (except where the sentence is suspended).

9.2

There is liability to pay statutory parental bereavement pay in respect of any
week during any part of which the person who is entitled to that pay is
detained in legal custody where that person—

9.2.a

is released subsequently without charge;

9.2.b

is subsequently found not guilty of any offence and is released; or

9.2.c

is convicted of an offence but does not receive a custodial sentence.

#### Work during period of payment of statutory parental bereavement pay


10

10.1

Despite section 167ZZ12(8) of the 1992 Act (statutory parental bereavement pay
not payable to a person in respect of a week during any part of which the
person works for any employer who is not liable to pay the person statutory
parental bereavement pay), statutory parental bereavement pay is payable to a
person in respect of a statutory pay week  during any part of which the person
works only for an employer—

10.1.a

who is not liable to pay the person statutory parental bereavement pay; and

10.1.b

for whom the person has worked in the week immediately preceding the week of
C’s death.

10.2

Where a person works for an employer falling within paragraph (1)(a) but not
paragraph (1)(b) for any part of a period which is specified by that person in
a notice under regulation 8(1), the person must notify the employer liable to
pay statutory parental bereavement pay of the fact of that work within seven
days of the first day during which the person does such work.

10.3

The notification mentioned in paragraph (2) must be in writing, if the
employer who has been liable to pay statutory parental bereavement pay so
requests.

### CONDITIONS OF ENTITLEMENT RELATING TO EMPLOYMENT AND EARNINGS


#### Treatment of persons as employees


11

11.1

A person is treated as an employee for the purposes of Part 12ZD of the 1992
Act (even though not falling within the definition of ‘employee’ in section
167ZZ17(2) of that Act) where, and in so far as, that person is treated as an
employed earner by virtue of the Social Security (Categorisation of Earners)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1978  (but see paragraph (3)).

11.2

A person shall not be treated as an employee for the purposes of Part 12ZD of
the 1992 Act (even though falling within the definition of ‘employee’ in
section 167ZZ17(2) of that Act) where, and in so far as, that person is not
treated as an employed earner by the Social Security (Categorisation of
Earners) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1978 (but see paragraph (3)).

11.3

Paragraphs (1) and (2) shall have effect in relation to a person who—

11.3.a

is under the age of 16; and

11.3.b

would, or as the case may be, would not have been treated as an employed
earner by virtue of those Regulations had they been over that age;

as they have effect in relation to a person who is, or as the case may be, is
not treated as an employed earner by virtue of the Social Security
(Categorisation of Earners) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1978.

11.4

A person is treated as an employee for the purposes of Part 12ZD of the 1992
Act (even though not falling within the definition of ‘employee’ in section
167ZZ17(2) of that Act) where that person is in employed earner’s employment
under a contract of apprenticeship.

11.5

A person is not to be treated as an employee for the purposes of Part 12ZD of
the 1992 Act (even though falling within the definition of ‘employee’ in
section 167ZZ17(2) of that Act) where that person is in employed earner’s
employment but that person’s employer—

11.5.a

does not fulfil the conditions prescribed in regulation 145(1) (conditions as
to residence or presence) of the Social Security (Contributions) Regulations
2001  in so far as that provision relates to residence or presence in Northern
Ireland; or

11.5.b

is a person who, by reason of any international treaty to which the United
Kingdom is a party or of any international convention binding the United
Kingdom—

11.5.b.i

is exempt from the provisions of the 1992 Act; or

11.5.b.ii

is a person against whom the provisions of the 1992 Act are not enforceable.

#### Continuous employment


12

12.1

A week is to be treated for the purposes of section 167ZZ9 of the 1992 Act as
part of a period of continuous employment with the employer even though no
contract of service exists with that employer in respect of that week in the
circumstances mentioned in paragraph (2) and subject to paragraphs (3) and
(4).

12.2

The circumstances mentioned in paragraph (1) are that in any week the person
is, for the whole or part of the week—

12.2.a

incapable of work in consequence of sickness or injury;

12.2.b

absent from work on account of a temporary cessation of work; or

12.2.c

absent from work in circumstances such that, by arrangement or custom, that
person is regarded as continuing in the employment of their employer for all
or any purposes;

and returns to work for their employer after the incapacity for or absence
from work.

12.3

Incapacity for work which lasts for more than 26 consecutive weeks shall not
count for the purposes of paragraph (2)(a).

12.4

Where a person—

12.4.a

is an employee in employed earner’s employment in which the custom is for the
employer—

12.4.a.i

to offer work for a fixed period of not more than 26 consecutive weeks;

12.4.a.ii

to offer work for such period on two or more occasions in a year for periods
which do not overlap; and

12.4.a.iii

to offer the work available to those persons who had worked for the employer
during the last or a recent such period; but

12.4.b

is absent from work because of incapacity arising from some specific disease
or bodily or mental disablement;

then in that case paragraph (2) shall apply as if the words “and returns to
work for their employer after the incapacity for or absence from work” were
omitted.

#### Continuous employment and unfair dismissal


13

13.1

Where in consequence of specified action in relation to a person’s dismissal,
the person is reinstated or re-engaged by their employer or by a successor or
associated employer of that employer then—

13.1.a

the continuity of their employment shall be preserved for the purposes of
section 167ZZ9 of the 1992 Act for the period beginning with the effective
date of termination and ending with the date of reinstatement or re-
engagement; and

13.1.b

any week which falls within the interval beginning with the effective date of
termination and ending with the date of reinstatement or re-engagement, as the
case may be, shall count in the computation of their period of continuous
employment.

13.2

In this regulation—

13.2.a

“ associated employer ” shall be construed in accordance with Article 4 of the
Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 ;

13.2.b

“ dismissal procedures agreement ” and “ successor ” have the same meanings as
in Article 2 of the Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996;

13.2.c

“ specified action in relation to a person’s dismissal ” means action which
consists of—

13.2.c.i

the presentation by that person of a complaint under Article 145(1)
(complaints to industrial tribunal) of the Employment Rights (Northern
Ireland) Order 1996;

13.2.c.ii

that person making a claim in accordance with a dismissal procedure agreement
designated by an order under Article 142 of that Order ; or

13.2.c.iii

any action taken by a conciliation officer under Articles 20A to 20C
(conciliation) of the Industrial Tribunals (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 .

#### Continuous employment and stoppages of work


14

14.1

Where a person does not work for any week or part of a week because there is a
stoppage of work at that person’s place of employment due to a trade dispute
within the meaning of Article 2 (2) of the Jobseekers (Northern Ireland) Order
1995  then—

14.1.a

that person’s continuity of employment shall be treated as continuing
throughout the stoppage (but see paragraph (2)) for the purposes of section
167ZZ9 of the 1992 Act; and

14.1.b

no such week shall count in the computation of their period of continuous
employment (but see paragraph (3)).

14.2

Where during the stoppage of work a person is dismissed from their employment,
that person’s continuity of employment shall not be treated under paragraph
(1) as continuing beyond the commencement of the day that person stopped work
(but see paragraph (3)).

14.3

Paragraph (1)(b) and paragraph (2) do not apply to a person who proves that at
no time did they have a direct interest in the trade dispute in question.

#### Modification for periods of employment between 25 and 26 weeks


15

15.1

This regulation applies where a person has been in employed earner’s
employment with the same employer in each of 26 consecutive weeks (but no more
than 26 weeks), ending with the week immediately preceding the week of C’s
death.

15.2

For the purpose of determining whether that person’s employment amounts to a
continuous period of at least 26 weeks (see section 167ZZ9 of the 1992 Act),
the first of those 26 weeks is a period commencing on the first day of the
person’s employment with the employer (“the start date”) and ending at
midnight on—

15.2.a

the first Saturday after the start date; or

15.2.b

where the start date is a Saturday, that day.

#### Change of employer


16

16.1

Where a person’s employer changes, a person’s employment is to be treated for
the purposes of section 167ZZ9 of the 1992 Act as continuous employment with
the second employer in the following circumstances—

16.1.a

the employer’s trade or business or an undertaking (whether or not it is an
undertaking established by or under Northern Ireland legislation or an Act of
Parliament) is transferred from one person to another;

16.1.b

a contract of employment between any body corporate and the person is modified
by or under Northern Ireland legislation or an Act of Parliament, whether
public or local and whenever passed and some other body corporate is
substituted as that person’s employer;

16.1.c

on the death of the employer, the person is taken into the employment of the
personal representatives or trustees of the deceased;

16.1.d

the person is employed by partners, personal representatives or trustees and
there is a change in the partners, or as the case may be, personal
representatives or trustees;

16.1.e

the person is taken into the employment of an employer who is, at the time the
person entered into the employer’s employment, an associated employer of the
person’s previous employer; or

16.1.f

on the termination of the person’s employment with an employer that person is
taken into the employment of another employer and those employers are
governors of a school maintained by a local education authority.

16.2

In paragraph (1)(e) “associated employer” must be construed in accordance with
Article 4 of the Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996.

#### Reinstatement after service with the armed forces


17

Where a person—

17.a

is entitled to apply to their employer under the Reserve Forces (Safeguard of
Employment) Act 1985 ; and

17.b

enters the employment of that employer within the six month period mentioned
in section 1(4)(b) (obligation to reinstate) of that Act;

that person’s previous period of employment with that employer (or if there
was more than one such period, the last of those periods) and the period of
employment beginning in that six month period shall be treated as continuous
for the purposes of section 167ZZ9 of the 1992 Act.

#### Treatment of two or more employers or two or more contracts of service as one


18

18.1

In a case where the earnings paid to a person in respect of two or more
employments are aggregated and treated as a single payment of earnings under
regulation 15(1) (aggregation of earnings paid in respect of different
employed earner’s employments by different persons) of the Social Security
(Contributions) Regulations 2001, the employers of that person in respect of
those employments shall be treated as one for the purposes of Part 12ZD of the
1992 Act (and these Regulations).

18.2

Where two or more employers are treated as one under the provisions of
paragraph (1), liability for statutory parental bereavement pay shall be
apportioned between them in such proportions as they may agree or, in default
of agreement, in the proportions which the person’s normal weekly earnings
from each employment bear to the amount of the aggregated normal weekly
earnings over the relevant period as defined in regulation 19(4).

18.3

Where two or more contracts of service exist concurrently between one employer
and one employee, they shall be treated as one for the purposes of Part 12ZD
of the 1992 Act (and these Regulations) except where, by virtue of regulation
14 (aggregation of earnings paid in respect of separate employed earner’s
employments under the same employer) of the Social Security (Contributions)
Regulations 2001, the earnings from those contracts of service are not
aggregated for the purpose of earnings-related contributions.

#### Normal weekly earnings


19

19.1

For the purposes of section 167ZZ17(6) (which defines normal weekly earnings
for the purposes of Part 12ZD of the 1992 Act) “earnings” and “relevant
period” have the meanings given in this regulation.

19.2

The expression “ earnings ” refers to gross earnings and includes any
remuneration or profit derived from a person’s employment except any amount
which is—

19.2.a

excluded from the computation of a person’s earnings under regulation 25
(payments to be disregarded) of, and Schedule 3 to, the Social Security
(Contributions) Regulations 2001 or regulation 27 (payments to directors to be
disregarded)  of those Regulations (or would have been so excluded had they
not been made under the age of 16); or

19.2.b

a chargeable emolument under section 10A (class 1B contributions) of the 1992
Act  except where, in consequence of such a chargeable emolument being
excluded from earnings, a person would not be entitled to statutory parental
bereavement pay (or where such a payment or amount would have been so excluded
and in consequence the person would not have been entitled to statutory
parental bereavement pay had they not been aged under the age of 16).

19.3

The expression “ earnings ” includes—

19.3.a

any amount retrospectively treated as earnings by regulations made by virtue
of section 4B(2) of the 1992 Act ;

19.3.b

any sum payable in respect of arrears of pay in pursuance of an order for
reinstatement or re-engagement under the Employment Rights (Northern Ireland)
Order 1996;

19.3.c

any sum payable by way of pay in pursuance of an order made under the
Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 for the continuation of a
contract of employment;

19.3.d

any sum payable by way of remuneration in pursuance of a protective award
under Article 217 of the Employment Rights (Northern Ireland ) Order 1996 ;

19.3.e

any sum payable by way of statutory sick pay, including sums payable in
accordance with regulations made under section 147(6) of the 1992 Act ;

19.3.f

any sum payable by way of statutory maternity pay;

19.3.g

any sum payable by way of statutory paternity pay;

19.3.h

any sum payable by way of statutory shared parental pay;

19.3.i

any sum payable by way of statutory adoption pay;

19.3.j

any sum payable by way of statutory parental bereavement pay.

19.4

The relevant period is the period—

19.4.a

ending on the last normal pay day to fall before the appropriate date; and

19.4.b

beginning with the day following the last normal pay day to fall at least
eight weeks earlier than the normal pay day mentioned in sub-paragraph (a).

19.5

In a case where a person has no identifiable normal pay day, paragraph (4)
shall have effect as if the words “day of payment” were substituted for the
words “normal pay day” in each place where they occur.

19.6

In a case where a person has normal pay days at intervals of or approximating
to one or more calendar months (including intervals of or approximating to a
year) that person’s normal weekly earnings shall be calculated by dividing
their earnings in the relevant period by the number of calendar months in that
period (or, if it is not a whole number, the nearest whole number),
multiplying the result by 12 and dividing by 52.

19.7

In a case to which paragraph (6) does not apply and the relevant period is not
an exact number of weeks, the person’s normal weekly earnings shall be
calculated by dividing their earnings in the relevant period by the number of
days in the relevant period and multiplying the result by seven.

19.8

In any case where a person receives a back-dated pay increase which includes a
sum in respect of a relevant period, normal weekly earnings shall be
calculated as if such a sum was paid in that relevant period even though
received after that period.

19.9

In paragraphs (4) to (6)—

19.9.a

“ the appropriate date ” means the first day of the week in which C dies;

19.9.b

“ day of payment ” means a day on which a person is paid;

19.9.c

“ normal pay day ” means a day on which the terms of a person’s contract of
service require the person to be paid, or the practice in that person’s
employment is for that person to be paid if any payment is due to them.

### PAYMENT OF STATUTORY PARENTAL BEREAVEMENT PAY


#### Weekly rate of payment


20

20.1

The weekly rate of payment of statutory parental bereavement pay is the
smaller of the following two amounts—

20.1.a

£184.03 ;

20.1.b

90% of the normal weekly earnings of the person claiming statutory parental
bereavement pay determined in accordance with section 167ZZ17(6) of the 1992
Act and regulation 19.

20.2

Where the amount of any payment of statutory parental bereavement pay is
calculated by reference to—

20.2.a

the weekly rate specified in paragraph (1)(b); or

20.2.b

the daily rate of one-seventh of the weekly rate specified in paragraph (1)(a)
or (b),

and that amount includes a fraction of a penny, the payment shall be rounded
up to the nearest whole number of pence.

#### Statutory parental bereavement pay and contractual remuneration


21

For the purposes of section 167ZZ14(1) and (2) of the 1992 Act (payment of
contractual remuneration to go towards discharging liability to pay statutory
parental bereavement pay and payment of statutory parental bereavement pay to
go towards discharging liability to pay contractual remuneration), the
payments which are to be treated as contractual remuneration are sums payable
under a contract of service—

21.a

by way of remuneration;

21.b

for incapacity for work due to sickness or injury; or

21.c

by reason of the birth, adoption, care or death of a child.

#### Avoidance of liability for statutory parental bereavement pay


22

22.1

A former employer shall be liable to make payments of statutory parental
bereavement pay to a former employee in any case where the employee had been
employed for a continuous period of at least 8 weeks and the employee’s
contract of service was brought to an end by the former employer solely, or
mainly, for the purpose of avoiding liability for statutory parental
bereavement pay.

22.2

In a case falling within paragraph (1)—

22.2.a

the employee shall be treated as if the employee had been employed for a
continuous period ending with C’s death; and

22.2.b

regulation 19(4) (relevant period for the purpose of the calculation of normal
weekly earnings) shall apply as if it read—

22.2.b.4

The relevant period is the period—

22.2.b.4.a

ending on the last day of payment under the former contract of employment; and

22.2.b.4.b

beginning with the day following the day of payment under that contract to
fall at least 8 weeks earlier than the day of payment mentioned in sub-
paragraph (a).

.

#### Payment of statutory parental bereavement pay


23

Payments of statutory parental bereavement pay may be made in like manner to
payments of remuneration but shall not include payment in kind or by way of
the provision of board and lodgings.

#### Time when statutory parental bereavement pay is to be paid


24

24.1

In any case where—

24.1.a

any decision has been made by an officer of Revenue and Customs under Article
7(1) (decisions by officers) of the Social Security Contributions (Transfer of
Functions, etc.) (Northern Ireland) Order 1999  as a result of which a person
is entitled to an amount of statutory parental bereavement pay; and

24.1.b

the time for bringing an appeal against the decision has expired and either—

24.1.b.i

no such appeal has been brought;

24.1.b.ii

leave to appeal against the decision is required and has been refused; or

24.1.b.iii

such appeal has been brought and has been finally disposed of;

that amount statutory parental bereavement pay shall be paid within the time
specified in paragraph (2).

24.2

The employer or former employer shall pay the amount not later than the first
pay day after the following days (but see paragraphs (3) and (4))—

24.2.a

where an appeal has been brought, the day on which the employer or former
employer receives notification that it has been finally disposed of;

24.2.b

where leave to appeal has been refused, and there remains no further
opportunity to apply for leave, the day on which the employer or former
employer receives notification of the refusal; and

24.2.c

in any other case, the day on which the time for bringing an appeal expires.

24.3

Where it is impracticable, in view of the employer’s or former employer’s
methods of accounting for and paying remuneration, for the requirement of
payment referred to in paragraph (2) to be met by the pay day referred to in
that paragraph, it shall be met not later than the next following pay day (but
see paragraph (4)).

24.4

Where the employer or former employer would not have remunerated the employee
for their work in the week in respect of which statutory parental bereavement
pay is payable as early as the pay day specified in paragraph (2) or (if it
applies) paragraph (3), the requirement of payment shall be met on the first
day on which the employee would have been remunerated for work in that week.

24.5

In this regulation “ pay day ” means a day on which it has been agreed, or it
is the normal practice between an employer or former employer and a person who
is or was an employee of theirs, that payments by way of remuneration are to
be made, or, where there is no such agreement or normal practice, the last day
of a calendar month.

#### Liability of the Commissioners to pay statutory parental bereavement pay


25

25.1

Despite section 167ZZ11(1) of the 1992 Act (liability to make payments of
statutory parental bereavement pay is liability of the employer), where the
conditions in regulation 24(1)(a) and (b) are satisfied, liability to make
payments of statutory parental bereavement pay to a person is to be the
liability of the Commissioners and not the employer for—

25.1.a

any week in respect of which the employer was liable to pay statutory parental
bereavement pay to that person but did not do so; and

25.1.b

for any subsequent week that person is entitled to payments of statutory
parental bereavement pay.

25.2

Despite section 167ZZ11(1) of the 1992 Act, liability to make payments of
statutory parental bereavement pay to a person is to be a liability of the
Commissioners and not the employer as from the week in which the employer
first becomes insolvent (see paragraphs (3) and (4)) until the last week that
person is entitled to payment of statutory parental bereavement pay.

25.3

For the purposes of paragraph (2) an employer shall be taken to be insolvent
if, and only if—

25.3.a

the employer has been adjudged bankrupt or has made a composition or
arrangement with its creditors;

25.3.b

the employer has died and the employer’s estate falls to be administered in
accordance with an order made under Article 365 of the Insolvency (Northern
Ireland) Order 1989 ; or

25.3.c

where an employer is a company or a limited liability partnership—

25.3.c.i

a winding-up order is made or a resolution for a voluntary winding-up is
passed (or, in the case of a limited liability partnership, a determination
for voluntary winding-up has been made) with respect to it;

25.3.c.ii

it enters administration;

25.3.c.iii

a receiver or manager of its undertaking is duly appointed;

25.3.c.iv

possession is taken, by or on behalf of the holders of any debentures secured
by a floating charge, of any property of the company or limited liability
partnership comprised in or subject to the charge; or

25.3.c.v

a voluntary arrangement proposed for the purposes of Part 1 of the Insolvency
(Northern Ireland) Order 1989 is approved under that Part.

#### Liability of the Commissioners to pay statutory parental bereavement pay in cases of legal custody or imprisonment


26

Where there is liability to pay statutory parental bereavement pay—

26.a

in respect of a period which is subsequent to the period mentioned in
paragraph (1)(c) of regulation 9 (cases where there is no liability to pay
statutory parental bereavement pay); or

26.b

during a period of detention in legal custody by virtue of paragraph (2) of
that regulation;

that liability, despite section 167ZZ11(1) of the 1992 Act, shall be that of
the Commissioners and not the employer.

#### Payments by the Commissioners


27

Where the Commissioners become liable in accordance with regulation 25
(liability of the Commissioners to pay statutory parental bereavement pay) or
regulation 26 (liability of the Commissioners to pay statutory parental
bereavement pay in case of legal custody or imprisonment) then payment is to
be made as soon as reasonably practicable after they become so liable, by
means of an instrument of payment or by such other means as appear to the
Commissioners to be appropriate in the circumstances of any particular case.

#### Persons unable to act


28

28.1

This regulation applies where—

28.1.a

statutory parental bereavement pay is payable to a person or it is alleged
that statutory parental bereavement pay is payable to a person;

28.1.b

that person is unable for the time being to act;

28.1.c

no controller ad interim has been appointed by the Court with power to receive
statutory parental bereavement pay on his behalf; and

28.1.d

a written application has been made to the Commissioners by a person, who, if
a natural person, is over the age of 18, to exercise any right, or deal with
any sums payable, under Part 12ZD of the 1992 Act on behalf of the person
unable to act.

28.2

Where this regulation applies the Commissioners may appoint the person
referred to in paragraph (1)(d)—

28.2.a

to exercise, on behalf of the person unable to act, any right to which the
person unable to act may be entitled under Part 12ZD of the 1992 Act; and

28.2.b

to deal, on behalf of the person unable to act, with any sums payable to the
person unable to act under Part 12ZD of the 1992 Act.

28.3

Where the Commissioners have made an appointment under paragraph (2)—

28.3.a

they may at any time revoke it;

28.3.b

the person appointed may resign their office after having given one month’s
notice in writing to the Commissioners of that person’s intention to do so;
and

28.3.c

the appointment shall end when the Commissioners are notified that a deputy or
other person to whom paragraph (1)(c) refers has been appointed.

28.4

Anything required by Part 12ZD of the 1992 Act to be done by or to the person
who is unable to act may be done by or to the person appointed under this
regulation to act on behalf of the person unable to act, and the receipt of
the person so appointed shall be a good discharge to the employer or former
employer of the person unable to act for any sum paid.

#### Service of notices


29

29.1

Where a notice is to be given under these Regulations, it may be given—

29.1.a

where paragraph (2) applies, by electronic communication;

29.1.b

by post; or

29.1.c

by personal delivery.

29.2

This paragraph applies where the person who is to receive the notice has
agreed that the notice may be given to the person by being transmitted to an
electronic address and in an electronic form specified by the person for that
purpose.

29.3

Where a notice is to be given under these Regulations it is to be taken to
have been given—

29.3.a

if sent by electronic communication, on the day of transmission;

29.3.b

if sent by post in an envelope which is properly addressed and sent by prepaid
post, on the day on which it is posted;

29.3.c

if delivered personally, on the day of delivery.

### TRANSITIONAL, REVOCATION AND EXPIRY


#### Transitional provisions


30

The revocation and re-enactment of provisions by these Regulations does not
affect the continuity of the law.

31

31.1

This regulation applies to a reference (expressed or implied) in these
Regulations, any statutory provision, or any other instrument or document, to
a provision of these Regulations.

31.2

The reference is, subject to its context, to be read as being or including a
reference to any or all of the corresponding earlier provisions, in relation
to times, circumstances or purposes in relation to which those earlier
provisions had effect.

31.3

For the purposes of paragraph (2), the corresponding earlier provisions are—

31.3.a

the corresponding provision revoked by these Regulations;

31.3.b

the corresponding provision revoked by the Statutory Parental Bereavement Pay
(General) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 ;

31.3.c

the corresponding provision revoked by the Statutory Parental Bereavement Pay
(General) (No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022 .

32

32.1

This regulation applies to a reference (expressed or implied) in any statutory
provision, or any other instrument or document to—

32.1.a

a provision revoked by these Regulations;

32.1.b

a provision revoked by the Statutory Parental Bereavement Pay (General)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023; or

32.1.c

a provision revoked by the Statutory Parental Bereavement Pay (General) (No.
2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022.

32.2

The reference is, subject to its context, to be read as being or including a
reference to the corresponding provision of these Regulations, in relation to
times, circumstances or purposes in relation to which that provision has
effect.

33

33.1

The revocation of any provision by these Regulations does not affect the
previous operation of that provision, except as provided by regulation 34.

33.2

The revocation by these Regulations of the savings made by regulations 33 and
34 of the Statutory Parental Bereavement Pay (General) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2023 does not affect the operation of those savings in so far as they
are not specifically reproduced in these Regulations but remain capable of
having effect.

34

34.1

Anything done, or having effect as if done, under (or for the purposes of or
in reliance on) a provision revoked by these Regulations and in operation or
effective immediately before the time these Regulations come into operation,
has effect after that time as if done instead under (or for the purposes of or
in reliance on) the corresponding provision of these Regulations.

34.2

Any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred
under a provision revoked by these Regulations is to be treated as having
acquired, accrued or incurred instead under the corresponding provision of
these Regulations.

34.3

Any reference in paragraph (1) or (2) to—

34.3.a

a thing done, or having effect as if done, under (or for the purposes of or in
reliance on) a provision revoked by these Regulations, or

34.3.b

a right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred
under a provision revoked by these Regulations,

includes a reference to a thing that has effect as if done under that
provision, or is treated as having been acquired, accrued, or incurred under
that provision, by virtue of regulation 34 of the Statutory Parental
Bereavement Pay (General) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023.

34.4

The revocation of any provision by these Regulations does not affect-

34.4.a

any offence committed against that provision, or any penalty or punishment
incurred in respect thereof, or

34.4.b

any investigation or legal proceeding in respect of any such penalty or
punishment;

and any investigation or legal proceeding in respect of any such penalty or
punishment may be instituted, continued or enforced, and any such penalty or
punishment may be imposed, as if the provision had not been revoked.

35

35.1

Regulations 30 to 34 have effect in place of sections 28(2) and 29 of the
Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  (“ 1954 Act ”).

35.2

Nothing in this Part affects any other provision of the 1954 Act.

35.3

In this Part, “instrument” and “statutory provision” have the meaning given to
them by section 1(c) and (f) of the 1954 Act.

#### Revocation


36

The Statutory Parental Bereavement Pay (General) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2023 are revoked.

#### Expiry


37

37.1

These Regulations expire on 5th April 2026.

37.2

This regulation does not affect the validity of anything done pursuant to
these Regulations before they expire.

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for the Economy on 28th
September 2023. (L.S.) Colin Jack A senior officer of the Department for the
Economy The Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs concur
Jonathon Athow 25th September 2023 Penny Ciniewicz 27th September 2023 Two of
the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations exercise powers inserted into the Social Security
Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act  1992 (c. 7)  (the “ 1992
Act ”) by the Parental Bereavement (Leave and Pay) Act (Northern Ireland)
2022 (c. 5) .

The Regulations revoke and re-enact the provisions of the Statutory Parental
Bereavement Pay (General) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 which would
otherwise cease to have effect by virtue of section 172(1) of the Social
Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992. The
Regulations provide for an entitlement for bereaved parents who are employed
earners to receive a statutory payment from their employers called statutory
parental bereavement pay.

Part 1 is introductory and, in particular, defines certain terms and specifies
when the new entitlement arises.

Part 2 (regulations 4 to 10) relates to the conditions for entitlement to
statutory parental bereavement pay. Regulation 4 sets out the types of
relationships with a child which qualify someone for entitlement when the
child dies. This includes a child’s legal parents (whether they are natural or
adoptive parents) and natural parents who have lost their legal status as
parents following an adoption or parental order, but in favour of whom a
contact order has been made after the adoption. The entitlement also extends
to adoptive and surrogate parents before a formal adoption or parental order
is made, once the child is born (in the case of surrogacy) or (in the case of
adoption) has been placed with them for adoption, or has entered Northern
Ireland from abroad to live with them, prior to being adopted. In addition,
individuals will be entitled if the child has been living with them, and they
have had day to day responsibility for the child, for at least four weeks. The
Regulations also confer entitlement on the partners of any of these parents.

Regulation 5 sets out how many weeks of statutory parental bereavement pay are
available to a bereaved parent and Regulation 6 allows pay to be claimed for a
single consecutive period, or for two non-consecutive blocks of a week each.
Regulation 7 sets the qualifying period, within which statutory parental
bereavement pay is payable, as a period of 56 weeks after the child’s death.

Regulation 8 details what notices and information the bereaved parent must
provide. Notice of the week or weeks in respect of which payments must be made
must be given within 28 days of the start of that week (or those weeks), along
with the parent’s name and the date of the child’s death. In addition, parents
must provide a written declaration, on the first occasion that they give
notice, that they meet one of the relevant conditions as to relationship with
the child who has died. If notice has been given before the start of the
statutory pay week, there is provision for parents to withdraw that notice.
Regulation 9 sets out circumstances where there is no liability to make
payments (including for example when the parent is entitled to statutory sick
pay, or has died). Regulation 10 deals with further circumstances relating to
such matters as work or absence from work which mean that pay may, or may not
be, payable.

Part 3 (regulations 11 to 19) contains provisions with further detail on the
conditions relating to employment and earnings that a bereaved parent must
satisfy in order to be entitled to statutory parental bereavement pay.
Regulation 11 provides that certain people are, or are not, to be regarded as
‘employees’ for the purposes of the 1992 Act regardless of whether or not they
would otherwise meet the relevant definition of an employee in that Act.
Regulations 12 to 14 make specific provision to ensure that certain weeks in
which an employee is absent from work, without a contract of service which
continues during that absence, nevertheless count towards the requirement of
26 weeks’ continuous employment. Regulation 15 makes special provision for
periods of employment which are between 25 and 26 weeks’ long. Regulations 16
and 17 make provision for continuity of employment when the identity of an
employer changes, or the person is reinstated following service with the armed
forces. Regulation 18 sets out when two or more employers should be treated as
a single employer for the purposes of the 1992 Act, and how liability for
statutory pay is to be apportioned between them. It also provides for two or
more contracts of service with a single employer to be treated as a single
contract of service. Regulation 19 sets out details of what the terms
‘earnings’ and ‘relevant period’ (used in the 1992 Act) are to mean.

Part 4 (regulations 20 to 29) contains provisions as to the payment of
statutory parental bereavement pay. Regulation 20 sets the weekly rate of
payment. Regulation 21 sets out when contractual and statutory rights to
parental bereavement pay can be set off against each other. Regulation 22
provides that an employer who deliberately dismisses a parent in order to
avoid liability for pay remains liable for payments. Regulation 23 allows
payments to be made in the same way as remuneration, but excludes the
possibility of payments in kind or the provision of board and lodging as a
form of payment. Regulation 24 sets out when payment must be made after a
determination has been issued by an officer of Revenue and Customs.
Regulations 25 and 26 set out the circumstances in which liability to make
payments shifts to the Commissioners for Revenue and Customs. Regulation 27
makes provision for when those payments are to be made. Regulation 28 allows
the Commissioners to appoint someone else to act on behalf of the parent who
is entitled to receive pay, in certain circumstances when the parent is
incapacitated. Regulation 29 provides details of when notices are to be
regarded as given.

Part 5 (regulations 30 to 37) contains provisions in respect of the
Transitional arrangements that will ensure a continuity of entitlement between
the revoked and current Regulations. This part includes the revocation of the
Statutory Parental Bereavement Pay (General) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2023. This Part also includes the expiry regulation which is required under
sections 3 (Temporary provision: qualifying employment period for parental
pay) and 5 (Commencement) of the Parental Bereavement (Leave and Pay) Act
(Northern Ireland) 2022.

An impact assessment has not been prepared for these Regulations. These
Regulations are part of a package of legislative measures and the relevant
impact assessment is the Parental Bereavement (Leave and Pay) Bill impact
assessment which was published in April 2020. (  https://www.economy-
ni.gov.uk/sites/default/files/consultations/economy/equality-impact-
assessment-parental-bereavement-leave-and-pay.pdf ).

