Title: The Rates (Localised Flooding) (Emergency Relief) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2024-02-03
Description: These Regulations provide for emergency rate relief in respect of specified hereditaments for the financial year ending before 1st April 2024. The relief is being provided in order to provide support to businesses as a result of severe localised flooding that occurred in Northern Ireland between 29th October 2023 and 18th November 2023.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/198

## The Rates (Localised Flooding) (Emergency Relief) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Rates

  Made   4th December 2023

  Coming into operation   11th December 2023

      The Department of Finance  makes the following Regulations in exercise
of the powers conferred by Article 31C of the Rates (Northern Ireland) Order
1977

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Rates (Localised Flooding) (Emergency
Relief) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation on
11th December 2023.

### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

      “ the 1977 Order ” means the Rates (Northern Ireland) Order 1977;
“ the 2010 Regulations ” means the Rates (Small Business Hereditament Relief)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2010 ;           “ council ” has the same
meaning as in section 148 of the Local Government (Northern Ireland) Act 1972
;           “ excepted hereditament ” means a hereditament which falls within
a class of hereditament described in the Schedule;           “ listed for the
purposes of these Regulations ” means listed by a council as a hereditament
which was subjected to localised flooding between 29th October 2023 and 18th
November 2023;           “ Minister of the Crown ” has the same meaning as in
the Ministers of the Crown Act 1975 ;           “ specified hereditament ”
means a hereditament—         which is, or would fall to be, shown in the NAV
list from 27th October 2023;           the NAV of which does not exceed
£600,000;           in respect of which there is a rates liability during the
period between 29th October 2023 and 31st March 2024;           which has been
listed for the purposes of these Regulations; and           which is not an
excepted hereditament;                 “ specified year ” means the year
ending before the 1st April 2024; and           “ statutory undertaker ” means
persons authorised or licenced by any statutory provision to carry on any
railway, road transport, water transport, inland navigation or dock
undertaking, or a gas undertaker, an electricity undertaker, a water
undertaker or a sewerage undertaker.

### Reduction of rates in respect of specified hereditaments

3

Subject to the condition in regulation 5, where liability for rates for a
specified hereditament occurs on or after 29th October 2023 the amount which,
apart from these Regulations, would be payable during a specified year shall
be reduced by 100% in respect of the period between that liability commencing
and–

3.a

31st March 2024; or

3.b

the date on which that liability ceases,

whichever is earlier.

### Treatment of mixed hereditaments

4

In any case where a hereditament has both a net annual value and a capital
value, regulation 3 shall apply as if a reference to any amount payable on
account of a rate on a specified hereditament is a reference to the net annual
value of the hereditament.

### Condition for reduction of rates in certain circumstances

5

The condition referred to in regulation 3 is that where rates in respect of a
specified hereditament are payable by the owner rather than the occupier, it
must appear to the Department that a sum equal to the amount of any reduction
under these Regulations will be applied for the benefit of that occupier.

### Reduction under the Rates (Small Business Hereditament Relief) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2010

6

A reduction applicable to a specified hereditament by virtue of these
Regulations is to be applied after any reduction applied to the hereditament
by virtue of the 2010 Regulations.

### Recoverable amounts

7

Any amount of rate relief determined in accordance with these Regulations
which is subsequently found to have been paid–

7.a

in error; or

7.b

in excess of entitlement,

shall be recoverable by the Department as rates due and payable.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Finance on 4th
December 2023.       (L.S.)   Sharon Magee   A senior officer of the
Department of Finance

  EXCEPTED HEREDITAMENTS

Regulation 2

1

A hereditament which is occupied by a Northern Ireland department or by a
Minister of the Crown or by any officer or body exercising functions on behalf
of the Crown.

2

A hereditament which is occupied by a body established by or under a statutory
provision or by a statutory undertaker.

3

A telecommunications hereditament which is used or intended to be used for the
purposes outlined within regulation 3 of the Valuation (Telecommunications,
Natural Gas and Water) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2010 .

4

A hereditament which is used only for, or in connection with,
telecommunications masts and towers.

5

A hereditament which is wholly or mainly used for the purposes of generating
power by means of :-

5.a

biomass;

5.b

biofuels;

5.c

anaerobic digestion;

5.d

land fill gas;

5.e

fuel cells;

5.f

photovoltaics;

5.g

water (including waves and tides);

5.h

wind;

5.i

solar power;

5.j

geothermal sources;

5.k

heat from air; water or the ground;

5.l

combined heat and power systems.

6

A hereditament which is wholly owned by the Northern Ireland Housing Executive
or a housing association registered in the register maintained under Part II
of the Housing (Northern Ireland) Order 1992

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations provide for emergency rate relief in respect of specified
hereditaments for the financial year ending before 1st April 2024. The relief
is being provided in order to provide support to businesses as a result of
severe localised flooding that occurred in Northern Ireland between 29th
October 2023 and 18th November 2023.

  Regulation 3 removes any rates liability that arises for specified
hereditaments between 29th October 2023 and 1st April 2024.

  Regulation 4 allows for the removal of liability under regulation 3 to apply
to the NAV element of a mixed hereditament that appears on the non-domestic
valuation list.

  Regulation 5 provides that where rates are payable by the owner rather than
the occupier of a business hereditament, the reduction of rates is conditional
on the owner applying the amount of the reduction for the benefit of the
occupier.

  Regulation 6 makes provision to ensure that the relief provided under these
Regulations is applied after the rate relief provided under the Rates (Small
Business Hereditament Relief) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2010 ( S.R. 2010
No. 4 ) as amended.

  Regulation 7 makes provision that an amount of rate relief, determined in
accordance with these Regulations, and subsequently found to have been paid in
excess of entitlement shall be recoverable by the Department as rates due and
payable.

  The Schedule to the Regulations provides for what will constitute an
excepted hereditament for the purposes of the Regulations.

