Title: The Education (Student Finance) (Miscellaneous Amendments) (Wales) Regulations 2023
Date: 2023-08-01
Description: These Regulations amend—the Education (Fees and Awards) (Wales) Regulations 2007 (“the 2007 Regulations”) (see Part 2 of the Regulations),the Education (European University Institute) (Wales) Regulations 2014 (“the 2014 Regulations”) (see Part 3 of the Regulations),the Higher Education (Qualifying Courses, Qualifying Persons and Supplementary Provision) (Wales) Regulations 2015 (“the 2015 Regulations”) (see Part 4 of the Regulations),the Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2017 (“the 2017 Regulations”) (see Part 5 of the Regulations),the Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2018 (“the 2018 Regulations”) (see Part 6 of the Regulations),the Education (Postgraduate Doctoral Degree Loans) (Wales) Regulations 2018 (“the Doctoral Degree Loan Regulations”) (see Part 7 of the Regulations), andthe Education (Student Support) (Postgraduate Master’s Degrees) (Wales) Regulations 2019 (“the 2019 Regulations”) (see Part 8 of the Regulations).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2023/87

## The Education (Student Finance) (Miscellaneous Amendments) (Wales) Regulations 2023

    Education, Wales

  Made   30 January 2023

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   1 February 2023

  Coming into force   22 February 2023

      The Welsh Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred upon the Secretary of State by sections 1 and 2 of the
Education (Fees and Awards) Act 1983  and sections 22(1)(a), 22(2)(a), (b) and
(c) and 42(6) of the Teaching and Higher Education Act 1998 , and now
exercisable by them , and powers conferred on them under sections 5(5)(b) and
55(2) of the Higher Education (Wales) Act 2015 .

### Title, commencement and application

#### Title and commencement

1

1.1

The title of these Regulations is the Education (Student Finance)
(Miscellaneous Amendments) (Wales) Regulations 2023.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 22 February 2023.

#### Application

2

2.1

The following regulations apply in relation to the provision of support to a
student in relation to an academic year which begins on or after 1 August
2023, whether or not anything done under these Regulations is done before, on
or after that date—

2.1.a

regulations 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 48,
49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56 and 57 (update of amounts: the Education
(Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2017 and the Education (Student Support)
(Wales) Regulations 2018);

2.1.b

regulations 33, 34, 35, 36, 58 and 59 (grants for dependants: the Education
(Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2017 and the Education (Student Support)
(Wales) Regulations 2018).

2.2

The following regulations apply in relation to the provision of support to a
student in relation to a course which begins on or after 1 August 2023,
whether or not anything done under these Regulations is done before, on or
after that date—

2.2.a

regulations 4 and 5 (students from British overseas territories: fees and
awards);

2.2.b

regulation 6 (family members of settled persons: fees and awards);

2.2.c

regulation 15 (students from British overseas territories: qualifying
persons);

2.2.d

regulation 16 (family members of settled persons: qualifying persons);

2.2.e

regulations 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 61, 62, 63, 68, 69, 70 and 71
(students from British overseas territories: eligibility);

2.2.f

regulations 47, 64 and 72 (family members of settled persons: eligibility);

2.2.g

regulation 65 (amendment to the annual instalment threshold: the Education
(Postgraduate Doctoral Degree Loans) (Wales) Regulations 2018);

2.2.h

regulation 66 (update of amounts: the Education (Postgraduate Doctoral Degree
Loans) (Wales) Regulations 2018);

2.2.i

regulations 73 and 74 (update of amounts: the Education (Student Support)
(Postgraduate Master’s Degrees) (Wales) Regulations 2019).

### Amendments to the Education (Fees and Awards) (Wales) Regulations 2007

#### Introduction

3

The Education (Fees and Awards) (Wales) Regulations 2007  are amended in
accordance with this Part.

#### Students from British overseas territories and related amendments

4

In each of regulations 4(1B), 5(4), 6(5), 7(5) and 8(4) for “9B and 9BA”
substitute  “9B, 9BA and 9E” .

5

In the Schedule—

5.a

in paragraph 1—

5.a.i

in the definition of “family member” in the English text, for “aelod o deulu”
substitute  “aelod o’r teulu” ;

5.a.ii

in the definition of “family member”, in paragraph (e), for “paragraphs 9, 9B,
9C, 9D and 9E” substitute  “paragraphs 9, 9B, 9E or for the purposes of
paragraphs 9C and 9D in relation to a person settled in the United Kingdom” ;

5.b

in paragraph 9C(1)(a)—

5.b.i

in sub-paragraph (i), for “a United Kingdom national” substitute  “a person
who is settled in the United Kingdom” ;

5.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (ii), at the end insert  “, or who would be such a person if
they were ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom” .

#### Family members of settled persons

6

In the Schedule, in paragraph 9D(1)(a) for “a United Kingdom national”
substitute  “settled in the United Kingdom” .

### Amendments to the Education (European University Institute) (Wales) Regulations 2014

#### Introduction

7

The Education (European University Institute) (Wales) Regulations 2014  are
amended in accordance with this Part.

#### Omission of redundant provisions

8

In regulation 6—

8.a

in paragraph (2)(b)(i), omit “2A,”, “9A,” and “9BA, 9C, 9D,”;

8.b

in paragraph (2)(b)(ii), omit “9,”;

8.c

in paragraph (2A)(a), omit “9,”;

8.d

in paragraph (2B), for “8A, 9B, 9BA and 9D” substitute  “8A and 9B” ;

8.e

in paragraph (10E)(a)—

8.e.i

in paragraph (i) for “(a)(iii), (iv) or (v)” substitute  “(1)(a)(iii) or (iv)”
;

8.e.ii

in paragraph (ii) for “3(1)(a)(iii) or (iv)” substitute  “3(1)(a)(iv)” .

9

In regulation 15—

9.a

in paragraph (1), for “Subject to paragraph (2), an” substitute  “An” ;

9.b

omit paragraph (2).

10

In regulation 17—

10.a

in paragraph (1), for “Subject to paragraph (2), an” substitute  “An” ;

10.b

omit paragraph (2).

11

In regulation 20—

11.a

in paragraph (1), for “Subject to paragraph (3), an” substitute  “An” ;

11.b

omit paragraph (3).

12

In regulation 22—

12.a

in paragraph (1), for “Subject to paragraph (2), an” substitute  “An” ;

12.b

omit paragraph (2).

13

In Schedule 1—

13.a

in paragraph 1, in the definition of “family member”—

13.a.i

in paragraphs (c) and (d), omit “or, for the purposes of paragraph 9A, in
relation to a relevant person of Northern Ireland who would fall within
Article 7(1)(c) of Directive 2004/38 if that person were an EU national or
solely an EU national”;

13.a.ii

in paragraph (e) for “paragraphs 9, 9B, 9C and 9D” substitute  “paragraph 9B”
;

13.b

omit paragraphs 2A, 3(1)(a)(iii), 9, 9A, 9BA, 9C and 9D.

### Amendments to the Higher Education (Qualifying Courses, Qualifying Persons and Supplementary Provision) (Wales) Regulations 2015

#### Introduction

14

The Higher Education (Qualifying Courses, Qualifying Persons and Supplementary
Provision) (Wales) Regulations 2015  are amended in accordance with this Part.

#### Students from British overseas territories and related amendments

15

In the Schedule—

15.a

in paragraph 1(1), in paragraph (e) of the definition of “family member”, for
“paragraphs 9, 9B, 9C, 9D and 9E” substitute  “paragraphs 9, 9B, 9E and for
the purposes of paragraphs 9C and 9D in relation to persons settled in the
United Kingdom” ;

15.b

in paragraph 9C(1)(a)—

15.b.i

in sub-paragraph (i), for “a United Kingdom national” substitute  “a person
who is settled in the United Kingdom” ;

15.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (ii), at the end insert  “, or who would be such a person if
they were ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom” .

#### Family members of settled persons

16

In the Schedule, in paragraph 9D(1)(a), for “a United Kingdom national”
substitute  “settled in the United Kingdom” .

### Amendments to the Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2017

#### Introduction

17

The Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2017  are amended in
accordance with this Part.

#### Financial support – uplifts

18

In regulation 16—

18.a

in paragraph (3)(a), for “£4,295” substitute  “£4,215” ;

18.b

in paragraph (3)(b), for “£4,705” substitute  “£4,785” ;

18.c

in paragraph (4)(a), for “£2,220” substitute  “£2,175” ;

18.d

in paragraph (4)(b), for “£2,280” substitute  “£2,325” .

19

In regulation 19—

19.a

in paragraph (3)(a), for “£4,705” substitute  “£4,785” ;

19.b

in paragraph (4)(a), for “£2,280” substitute  “£2,325” .

20

In regulation 24(3)(a), for “£32,546” substitute  “£33,146” .

21

In regulation 26(3)—

21.a

in sub-paragraph (a), for “£3,262” substitute  “£3,322” ;

21.b

in sub-paragraph (b), for “£3,262” substitute  “£3,322” .

22

In regulation 27—

22.a

in paragraph (7)(a), for “£184” substitute  “£187” ;

22.b

in paragraph (7)(b), for “£315” substitute  “£321” ;

22.c

in paragraph (9)(a), for “£141” substitute  “£144” .

23

In regulation 28(2), for “£1,862” substitute  “£1,896” .

24

In regulation 43—

24.a

in paragraph (2)(i), for “£6,163” substitute  “£6,277” ;

24.b

in paragraph (2)(ii), for “£11,152” substitute  “£11,357” ;

24.c

in paragraph (2)(iii), for “£9,492” substitute  “£9,667” ;

24.d

in paragraph (2)(iv), for “£9,492” substitute  “£9,667” ;

24.e

in paragraph (2)(v), for “£7,961” substitute  “£8,108” ;

24.f

in paragraph (3)(i), for “£5,580” substitute  “£5,683” ;

24.g

in paragraph (3)(ii), for “£10,155” substitute  “£10,342” ;

24.h

in paragraph (3)(iii), for “£8,256” substitute  “£8,408” ;

24.i

in paragraph (3)(iv), for “£8,256” substitute  “£8,408” ;

24.j

in paragraph (3)(v), for “£7,375” substitute  “£7,511” .

25

In regulation 45—

25.a

in paragraph (1)(a)(i), for “£2,926” substitute  “£2,980” ;

25.b

in paragraph (1)(a)(ii), for “£5,484” substitute  “£5,585” ;

25.c

in paragraph (1)(a)(iii), for “£4,666” substitute  “£4,752” ;

25.d

in paragraph (1)(a)(iv), for “£4,666” substitute  “£4,752” ;

25.e

in paragraph (1)(a)(v), for “£3,901” substitute  “£3,973” ;

25.f

in paragraph (1)(b)(i), for “£2,926” substitute  “£2,980” ;

25.g

in paragraph (1)(b)(ii), for “£5,484” substitute  “£5,585” ;

25.h

in paragraph (1)(b)(iii), for “£4,666” substitute  “£4,752” ;

25.i

in paragraph (1)(b)(iv), for “£4,666” substitute  “£4,752” ;

25.j

in paragraph (1)(b)(v), for “£3,901” substitute  “£3,973” ;

25.k

in paragraph (1)(c)(i), for “£4,622” substitute  “£4,708” ;

25.l

in paragraph (1)(c)(ii), for “£8,364” substitute  “£8,518” ;

25.m

in paragraph (1)(c)(iii), for “£7,119” substitute  “£7,250” ;

25.n

in paragraph (1)(c)(iv), for “£7,119” substitute  “£7,250” ;

25.o

in paragraph (1)(c)(v), for “£5,971” substitute  “£6,081” ;

25.p

in paragraph (2)(a)(i), for “£2,224” substitute  “£2,265” ;

25.q

in paragraph (2)(a)(ii), for “£4,194” substitute  “£4,271” ;

25.r

in paragraph (2)(a)(iii), for “£3,040” substitute  “£3,096” ;

25.s

in paragraph (2)(a)(iv), for “£3,040” substitute  “£3,096” ;

25.t

in paragraph (2)(a)(v), for “£3,040” substitute  “£3,096” ;

25.u

in paragraph (2)(b)(i), for “£2,224” substitute  “£2,265” ;

25.v

in paragraph (2)(b)(ii), for “£4,194” substitute  “£4,271” ;

25.w

in paragraph (2)(b)(iii), for “£3,411” substitute  “£3,474” ;

25.x

in paragraph (2)(b)(iv), for “£3,411” substitute  “£3,474” ;

25.y

in paragraph (2)(b)(v), for “£3,040” substitute  “£3,096” ;

25.z

in paragraph (2)(c)(i), for “£4,185” substitute  “£4,262” ;

25.aa

in paragraph (2)(c)(ii), for “£7,616” substitute  “£7,757” ;

25.bb

in paragraph (2)(c)(iii), for “£6,192” substitute  “£6,306” ;

25.cc

in paragraph (2)(c)(iv), for “£6,192” substitute  “£6,306” ;

25.dd

in paragraph (2)(c)(v), for “£5,531” substitute  “£5,633” .

26

In regulation 50—

26.a

in paragraph (1)(a), for “£91” substitute  “£93” ;

26.b

in paragraph (1)(b), for “£176” substitute  “£179” ;

26.c

in paragraph (1)(c), for “£192” substitute  “£196” ;

26.d

in paragraph (1)(d), for “£192” substitute  “£196” ;

26.e

in paragraph (1)(e), for “£138” substitute  “£141” .

27

In regulation 56—

27.a

in paragraph (3)(a), for “£4,622” substitute  “£4,708” ;

27.b

in paragraph (3)(b), for “£8,364” substitute  “£8,518” ;

27.c

in paragraph (3)(c), for “£7,119” substitute  “£7,250” ;

27.d

in paragraph (3)(d), for “£7,119” substitute  “£7,250” ;

27.e

in paragraph (3)(e), for “£5,971” substitute  “£6,081” ;

27.f

in paragraph (4)(a), for “£4,185” substitute  “£4,262” ;

27.g

in paragraph (4)(b), for “£7,616” substitute  “£7,757” ;

27.h

in paragraph (4)(c), for “£6,192” substitute  “£6,306” ;

27.i

in paragraph (4)(d), for “£6,192” substitute  “£6,306” ;

27.j

in paragraph (4)(e), for “£5,531” substitute  “£5,633” .

28

In regulation 88(3)(a), for “£32,546” substitute  “£33,146” .

29

In regulation 91—

29.a

in paragraph (3)(a), for “£3,262” substitute  “£3,322” ;

29.b

in paragraph (3)(b), for “£3,262” substitute  “£3,322” .

30

In regulation 92—

30.a

in paragraph (6)(a), for “£184” substitute  “£187” ;

30.b

in paragraph (6)(b), for “£315” substitute  “£321” ;

30.c

in paragraph (8)(a), for “£141” substitute  “£144” .

31

In regulation 93(2), for “£1,862” substitute  “£1,896” .

32

In regulation 117(2)(a), for “£32,546” substitute  “£33,146” .

#### Grants for dependants

33

In regulation 29(2), for—

33.a

“£1,159” substitute “£1,180”;

33.b

“£3,473” substitute “£3,537”;

33.c

“£4,632” substitute “£4,717”;

33.d

“£5,797” substitute “£5,904”.

34

In regulation 89(3), for “50” substitute  “25” .

35

In regulation 94(2), for—

35.a

“£1,159” substitute “£1,180”;

35.b

“£3,473” substitute “£3,537”;

35.c

“£4,632” substitute “£4,717”;

35.d

“£5,797” substitute “£5,904”.

36

In regulation 98—

36.a

for paragraph (3) substitute—

36.a.3

In the case of part-time adult dependants’ grant, where the intensity of study
is—

      25 per cent or more but less than 30 per cent, the amount payable is
equal to 25 per cent of the resulting amount;           30 per cent or more
but less than 40 per cent, the amount payable is equal to 30 per cent of the
resulting amount;           40 per cent or more but less than 50 per cent, the
amount payable is equal to 40 per cent of the resulting amount;           50
per cent or more but less than 60 per cent, the amount payable is equal to 50
per cent of the resulting amount;           60 per cent or more but less than
75 per cent, the amount payable is equal to 60 per cent of the resulting
amount;           75 per cent or more, the amount payable is equal to 75 per
cent of the resulting amount.

;

36.b

for paragraph (5) substitute—

36.b.5

In the case of part-time childcare grant, where the intensity of study is—

      25 per cent or more but less than 30 per cent, the amount payable is
equal to 25 per cent of the resulting amount;           30 per cent or more
but less than 40 per cent, the amount payable is equal to 30 per cent of the
resulting amount;           40 per cent or more but less than 50 per cent, the
amount payable is equal to 40 per cent of the resulting amount;           50
per cent or more but less than 60 per cent, the amount payable is equal to 50
per cent of the resulting amount;           60 per cent or more but less than
75 per cent, the amount payable is equal to 60 per cent of the resulting
amount;           75 per cent or more, the amount payable is equal to 75 per
cent of the resulting amount.

;

36.c

for paragraph (7), substitute—

36.c.7

In the case of part-time parents’ learning allowance, where the intensity of
study is—

      25 per cent or more but less than 30 per cent, the amount payable is
equal to 25 per cent of the resulting amount;           30 per cent or more
but less than 40 per cent, the amount payable is equal to 30 per cent of the
resulting amount;           40 per cent or more but less than 50 per cent, the
amount payable is equal to 40 per cent of the resulting amount;           50
per cent or more but less than 60 per cent, the amount payable is equal to 50
per cent of the resulting amount;           60 per cent or more but less than
75 per cent, the amount payable is equal to 60 per cent of the resulting
amount;           75 per cent or more, the amount is equal to 75 per cent of
the resulting amount.

;

36.d

in paragraph (9), for “50” substitute  “25” .

### Amendments to the Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2018

#### Introduction

37

The Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2018  are amended in
accordance with this Part.

#### Students from British overseas territories and related amendments

38

In regulation 9(1)(a)(i), after “6BA,” insert  “6BB,” .

39

In regulation 44(1), in Exception 2, for the words from “paragraphs 1(3)” to
the end substitute  “paragraphs 1(2)(d)(ii), 1(3), 4A(1)(b)(ii), 4A(2)(b)(ii),
6(1), 6A(1), 6A(2)(d)(ii), 6BA, 6BB, 6C, 6D, 7A(c)(ii) or 8A(1)(d)(ii).”

40

In regulation 54, in Exception 2, for the words from “paragraphs 1(3)” to the
end substitute  “paragraphs 1(2)(d)(ii), 1(3), 4A(1)(b)(ii), 4A(2)(b)(ii),
6(1), 6A(1), 6A(2)(d)(ii), 6BA, 6BB, 6C, 6D, 7A(c)(ii) or 8A(1)(d)(ii).”

41

In regulation 62(2), in Exception 2, for the words from “paragraphs 1(3)” to
the end substitute  “paragraphs 1(2)(d)(ii), 1(3), 4A(1)(b)(ii), 4A(2)(b)(ii),
6(1), 6A(1), 6A(2)(d)(ii), 6BA, 6BB, 6C, 6D, 7A(c)(ii) or 8A(1)(d)(ii).”

42

In regulation 69(2), in Exception 2, for the words from “paragraphs 1(3)” to
the end substitute  “paragraphs 1(2)(d)(ii), 1(3), 4A(1)(b)(ii), 4A(2)(b)(ii),
6(1), 6A(1), 6A(2)(d)(ii), 6BA, 6BB, 6C, 6D, 7A(c)(ii) or 8A(1)(d)(ii).”

43

In regulation 80(2)(b)(iii), for “or 6D(a)” substitute  “, 6D(1)(a) or
6D(2)(a)” .

44

In Schedule 2—

44.a

for paragraph 1(2)(d) substitute—

44.a.d

in a case where the person’s ordinary residence referred to in paragraph (c)
was wholly or mainly for the purpose of receiving full-time education, was
ordinarily resident immediately before the period of ordinary residence
referred to in paragraph (c) in the territory comprising—

44.a.d.i

the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the EEA and Switzerland, or

44.a.d.ii

the overseas territories.

;

44.b

in paragraph 4A—

44.b.i

for sub-paragraph (1)(b) substitute—

44.b.i.b

has been ordinarily resident throughout the three-year period preceding the
first day of the first academic year of the course either—

44.b.i.b.i

in the territory comprising the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the EEA and
Switzerland, or

44.b.i.b.ii

in the territory comprising the United Kingdom, the EEA, Switzerland and the
overseas territories, where at least part of that ordinary residence was in
the overseas territories.

44.b.ii

for sub-paragraph (2)(b) substitute—

44.b.ii.b

has been ordinarily resident throughout the three-year period preceding the
first day of the first academic year of the course either—

44.b.ii.b.i

in the territory comprising the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the EEA and
Switzerland, or

44.b.ii.b.ii

in the territory comprising the United Kingdom, the EEA, Switzerland and the
overseas territories where at least part of that ordinary residence was in the
overseas territories, and

;

44.c

in paragraph 6A(1)(c)—

44.c.i

omit “Gibraltar,”;

44.c.ii

for “and Switzerland” substitute  “, Switzerland and the overseas territories”
;

44.d

in paragraph 6A(1)(d)—

44.d.i

omit “Gibraltar,”;

44.d.ii

for “and Switzerland” substitute  “, Switzerland and the overseas territories”
;

44.e

in paragraph 6A(2)(d), for the words from “ordinarily resident” to the end
substitute—

ordinarily resident immediately before the period of ordinary residence
referred to in paragraph (c) in the territory comprising—

44.e.i

the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the EEA and Switzerland, or

44.e.ii

the overseas territories.

;

44.f

after paragraph 6BA insert—

########## Category 6BB – Settled persons from the British overseas territories

44.f.6BB

44.f.6BB.1

A person—

44.f.6BB.1.a

who is settled in the United Kingdom on the first day of the first academic
year of the course,

44.f.6BB.1.b

who is—

44.f.6BB.1.b.i

undertaking a designated course in Wales, or

44.f.6BB.1.b.ii

undertaking a designated postgraduate course in Wales,

44.f.6BB.1.c

who has been ordinarily resident in the specified British overseas territories
for at least part of the three-year period preceding the first day of the
first academic year of the course,

44.f.6BB.1.d

who has been ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United
Kingdom, the Islands and the specified British overseas territories throughout
the three-year period preceding the first day of the first academic year of
the course,

44.f.6BB.1.e

who did not move to Wales from the Islands for the purpose of undertaking the
current course, or a course which, disregarding any intervening vacation, the
person undertook immediately before undertaking the current course, and

44.f.6BB.1.f

subject to sub-paragraph (2), whose ordinary residence in the territory
comprising the United Kingdom, the Islands and the specified British overseas
territories has not during any part of the period referred to in paragraph (d)
been wholly or mainly for the purpose of receiving full-time education.

44.f.6BB.2

Paragraph (f) of sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to a person who is treated
as being ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United Kingdom,
the Islands and the specified British overseas territories in accordance with
paragraph 9(2).

;

44.g

for paragraph 6D substitute—

44.g.6D

44.g.6D.1

A person—

44.g.6D.1.a

who is—

44.g.6D.1.a.i

a United Kingdom national who has resident status in Gibraltar granted by the
Government of Gibraltar, or

44.g.6D.1.a.ii

a family member of a United Kingdom national, where that family member has
resident status in Gibraltar granted by the Government of Gibraltar,

44.g.6D.1.b

who is undertaking—

44.g.6D.1.b.i

a designated course in Wales, or

44.g.6D.1.b.ii

a designated postgraduate course in Wales,

44.g.6D.1.c

who has been ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United
Kingdom, Gibraltar, the EEA and Switzerland throughout the three-year period
preceding the first day of the first academic year of the course, and

44.g.6D.1.d

subject to sub-paragraph (3), whose ordinary residence in the territory
comprising the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the EEA and Switzerland has not
during any part of the period referred to in paragraph (c) been wholly or
mainly for the purpose of receiving full-time education.

44.g.6D.2

A person—

44.g.6D.2.a

who is—

44.g.6D.2.a.i

an EU national who has a right of residence in Gibraltar arising under the EU
withdrawal agreement, or

44.g.6D.2.a.ii

a family member of an EU national, where that family member has a right of
residence in Gibraltar arising under the EU withdrawal agreement,

44.g.6D.2.b

who is—

44.g.6D.2.b.i

undertaking a designated course in Wales, or

44.g.6D.2.b.ii

undertaking a designated postgraduate course in Wales,

44.g.6D.2.c

who has been ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United
Kingdom, the EEA, Switzerland and the overseas territories throughout the
three-year period preceding the first day of the first academic year of the
course, and

44.g.6D.2.d

subject to sub-paragraph (3), whose ordinary residence in the territory
comprising the United Kingdom, the EEA, Switzerland and the overseas
territories has not during any part of the period referred to in paragraph (c)
been wholly or mainly for the purpose of receiving full-time education.

44.g.6D.3

Paragraph (d) of sub-paragraphs (1) and (2) does not apply to a person treated
as being ordinarily resident in the territory referred to in paragraph (c) of
those sub-paragraphs in accordance with paragraph 9(2).

;

44.h

for paragraph 7A(c) substitute—

44.h.c

has been ordinarily resident throughout the three-year period preceding the
first day of the first academic year of the course either—

44.h.c.i

in the territory comprising the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the EEA and
Switzerland, or

44.h.c.ii

in the territory comprising the United Kingdom, the EEA, Switzerland and the
overseas territories where at least part of that ordinary residence was in the
overseas territories, and

;

44.i

in paragraph 8A(1), for paragraph (d) substitute—

44.i.d

has been ordinarily resident throughout the three-year period preceding the
first day of the first academic year of the course either—

44.i.d.i

in the territory comprising the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the EEA,
Switzerland and Turkey, or

44.i.d.ii

in the territory comprising the United Kingdom, the EEA, Switzerland and the
overseas territories where at least part of that ordinary residence was in the
overseas territories.

;

44.j

in paragraph 9—

44.j.i

for sub-paragraph (2) substitute—

44.j.i.2

For the purposes of this Schedule, a person (“ P ”) is to be treated as
ordinarily resident in an area if P would have been so resident but for the
fact that—

      P,           P’s spouse or civil partner, or           in the case of a
dependent direct relative in the ascending line, P’s child or child’s spouse
or civil partner,

is or was temporarily employed outside the area in question.

;

44.j.ii

for sub-paragraph (3) substitute—

44.j.ii.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (2), temporary employment outside the area
in question includes—

      in the case of members of the regular naval, military or air forces of
the Crown, any period which they serve outside the United Kingdom as members
of such forces;           in the case of members of the regular armed forces
of a specified British overseas territory, any period which they serve outside
the territory comprising the United Kingdom and the specified British overseas
territories as members of such forces;           in the case of members of the
regular armed forces of the Republic of Ireland, any period which they serve
outside the territory comprising the United Kingdom, the Islands and the
Republic of Ireland as members of such forces;           in the case of
members of the regular armed forces of an EEA State or Switzerland, any period
which they serve outside the territory comprising the United Kingdom,
Gibraltar, the EEA and Switzerland as members of such forces;           in the
case of members of the regular armed forces of Turkey, any period which they
serve outside the territory comprising the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the EEA,
Switzerland and Turkey as members of such forces;           in the case of
members of the regular armed forces of an EU overseas territory, any period
which they serve outside the territory comprising the United Kingdom, the EEA,
Switzerland and the overseas territories.

;

44.k

in paragraph 11(1), at the appropriate places insert—

      “ overseas territories ” (“ tiriogaethau tramor ”) means Anguilla,
Aruba, Bermuda, British Antarctic Territory, British Indian Ocean Territory,
British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands, Faroe Islands,
French Polynesia, French Southern and Antarctic Territories, Gibraltar,
Greenland, Mayotte, Montserrat, Netherlands Antilles (Bonaire, Curaçao, Saba,
Sint Eustatius, Sint Maarten), Pitcairn, Henderson, Ducie and Oeno Islands,
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, St Barthélemy, St Helena and
Dependencies (Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha), St Pierre et Miquelon,
the Territory of New Caledonia and Dependencies, Turks and Caicos Islands, and
Wallis and Futuna;

;

      “ specified British overseas territories ” (“ tiriogaethau tramor
Prydeinig penodedig ”) means Anguilla, Bermuda, British Antarctic Territory,
British Indian Ocean Territory, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands,
Falkland Islands, Gibraltar, Montserrat, Pitcairn, Henderson, Ducie and Oeno
Islands, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, St Helena and
Dependencies (Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha), and Turks and Caicos
Islands;

.

45

In Schedule 4, in paragraph 4(1)(a)(i)—

45.a

for “6A(2)” substitute  “6A(2)(d)(i)” ;

45.b

omit “6BA,”.

46

In Schedule 7, in Table 16, at the appropriate places insert the following
table entries—

      “overseas territories” Schedule 2, paragraph 11(1)

      “specified British overseas territories” Schedule 2, paragraph 11(1)

#### Family members of settled persons

47

In Schedule 2, in paragraph 6C(a), for “a United Kingdom national” substitute
“settled in the United Kingdom” .

#### Financial support – uplifts

48

In regulation 55, in Table 7—

48.a

in column 1, after “Beginning on or after 1 September 2022” insert  “but
before 1 September 2023” ;

48.b

at the end of the Table, insert the following table entry—

      Beginning on or after 1 September 2023 Category 1 Living at home £8,950
Living away from home, studying in London £13,635 Living away from home,
studying elsewhere £10,720 Category 2 Living at home £4,475 Living away from
home, studying in London £6,815 Living away from home, studying elsewhere
£5,360

49

In regulation 56—

49.a

in Table 8—

49.a.i

in column 1, after “Beginning on or after 1 September 2022” insert  “but
before 1 September 2023” ;

49.a.ii

at the end of the Table, insert the following table entry—

      Beginning on or after 1 September 2023 Living at home £9,950 Living away
from home, studying in London £14,635 Living away from home, studying
elsewhere £11,720

49.b

in Table 8A—

49.b.i

in column 1, after “Beginning on or after 1 September 2022” insert  “but
before 1 September 2023” ;

49.b.ii

at the end of the Table, insert the following table entry—

      Beginning on or after 1 September 2023 Living at home £4,475 Living away
from home, studying in London £6,815 Living away from home, studying elsewhere
£5,360

50

In regulation 57(7), in Table 9—

50.a

in column 1, after “Beginning on or after 1 September 2022” insert  “but
before 1 September 2023” ;

50.b

at the end of the Table, insert the following table entry—

      Beginning on or after 1 September 2023 Living at home £93 Living away
from home, studying in London £179 Living away from home, studying elsewhere
£141

51

In regulation 58(2), in Table 10—

51.a

in column 1, after “Beginning on or after 1 September 2022” insert  “but
before 1 September 2023” ;

51.b

at the end of the Table, insert the following table entry—

      Beginning on or after 1 September 2023 £7,650 multiplied by the
intensity of study

52

In regulation 58A(2), in Table 10A—

52.a

in column 1, after “Beginning on or after 1 September 2022” insert  “but
before 1 September 2023” ;

52.b

at the end of the Table, insert the following table entry—

      Beginning on or after 1 September 2023 £8,650 multiplied by the
intensity of study

53

In regulation 63(2), for “£32,546” substitute  “£33,146” .

54

In regulation 72(2), in Table 11—

54.a

in column 1, after “Beginning on or after 1 September 2022” insert  “but
before 1 September 2023” ;

54.b

at the end of the Table, insert the following table entry—

      Beginning on or after 1 September 2023 £3,322

55

In regulation 74, in Table 12—

55.a

in column 1, after “Beginning on or after 1 September 2022” insert  “but
before 1 September 2023” ;

55.b

at the end of the Table, insert the following table entry—

      Beginning on or after 1 September 2023 £1,896

56

In regulation 76(2)—

56.a

in Table 13—

56.a.i

in column 1, after “Beginning on or after 1 September 2022” insert  “but
before 1 September 2023” ;

56.a.ii

at the end of the Table, insert the following table entry—

      Beginning on or after 1 September 2023 One dependent child £187 More
than one dependent child £321

56.b

in paragraph (4)(a), for “£141” substitute  “£144” .

57

In Schedule 4, in paragraph 20(2), for “£32,546” substitute  “£33,146” .

#### Grants for dependants

58

In regulation 69(1)(c), for “50%” substitute  “25%” .

59

In regulation 77—

59.a

in paragraph (1), for—

59.a.i

“£6,159” substitute “£6,272”;

59.a.ii

“£8,473” substitute “£8,629”;

59.a.iii

“£9,632” substitute “£9,809”;

59.a.iv

“£10,797” substitute “£10,996”;

59.b

for paragraph (2) substitute—

59.b.2

If the eligible student’s present course is a part-time course, the amount of
GfD payable is the amount referred to in paragraph (a)(ii) or (d)(ii) of Step
4 of paragraph (1) multiplied by—

      25%, where the intensity of study for the current academic year is at
least 25% but less than 30%;           30%, where the intensity of study for
the current academic year is at least 30% but less than 40%;           40%,
where the intensity of study for the current academic year is at least 40% but
less than 50%;           50%, where the intensity of study for the current
academic year is at least 50% but less than 60%;           60%, where the
intensity of study for the current academic year is at least 60% but less than
75%;           75%, where the intensity of study for the current academic year
is 75% or more.

### Amendments to the Education (Postgraduate Doctoral Degree Loans) (Wales) Regulations 2018

#### Introduction

60

The Education (Postgraduate Doctoral Degree Loans) (Wales) Regulations 2018
are amended in accordance with this Part.

#### Students from British overseas territories and related amendments

61

In regulation 3(2)(a), after “10BA,” insert  “10BB,” .

62

In regulation 8(d), for “or 10D(1)(a)” substitute  “, 10D(1)(a) or 10D(2)(a)”
.

63

In Schedule 1—

63.a

in paragraph 1(1), at the appropriate places insert—

      “ overseas territories ” (“ tiriogaethau tramor ”) means Anguilla;
Aruba; Bermuda; British Antarctic Territory; British Indian Ocean Territory;
British Virgin Islands; Cayman Islands; Falkland Islands; Faroe Islands;
French Polynesia; French Southern and Antarctic Territories; Gibraltar;
Greenland; Mayotte; Montserrat; Netherlands Antilles (Bonaire, Curaçao, Saba,
Sint Eustatius, Sint Maarten); Pitcairn, Henderson, Ducie and Oeno Islands;
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands; St Barthélemy; St Helena and
Dependencies (Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha); St Pierre et Miquelon;
the Territory of New Caledonia and Dependencies; Turks and Caicos Islands; and
Wallis and Futuna;

;

      “ specified British overseas territories ” (“ tiriogaethau tramor
Prydeinig penodedig ”) means Anguilla; Bermuda; British Antarctic Territory;
British Indian Ocean Territory; British Virgin Islands; Cayman Islands;
Falkland Islands; Gibraltar; Montserrat; Pitcairn, Henderson, Ducie and Oeno
Islands; South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands; St Helena and
Dependencies (Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha); and Turks and Caicos
Islands;

;

63.b

for paragraph 1(4) substitute—

63.b.4

For the purposes of this Schedule, a person (“ A ”) is to be treated as
ordinarily resident in an area if A would have been so resident but for the
fact that—

63.b.4.a

A;

63.b.4.b

A’s spouse or civil partner; or

63.b.4.c

in the case of a dependent direct relative in the ascending line, A’s child or
child’s spouse or civil partner,

is or was temporarily employed outside the area in question.

;

63.c

for paragraph 1(5) substitute—

63.c.5

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (4), temporary employment outside the area
in question includes—

63.c.5.a

in the case of members of the regular naval, military or air forces of the
Crown, any period which they serve outside the United Kingdom as members of
such forces;

63.c.5.b

in the case of members of the regular armed forces of a specified British
overseas territory, any period which they serve outside the territory
comprising the United Kingdom and the specified British overseas territories
as members of such forces;

63.c.5.c

in the case of members of the regular armed forces of the Republic of Ireland,
any period which they serve outside the territory comprising the United
Kingdom, the Islands and the Republic of Ireland as members of such forces;

63.c.5.d

in the case of members of the regular armed forces of an EEA State or
Switzerland, any period which they serve outside the territory comprising the
United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the European Economic Area and Switzerland as
members of such forces;

63.c.5.e

in the case of members of the regular armed forces of Turkey, any period which
they serve outside the territory comprising the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the
European Economic Area, Switzerland and Turkey as members of such forces; and

63.c.5.f

in the case of members of the regular armed forces of an EU overseas
territory, any period which they serve outside the territory comprising the
United Kingdom, the European Economic Area, Switzerland and the overseas
territories.

;

63.d

in paragraph 3(1)(d)—

63.d.i

omit “Gibraltar,”;

63.d.ii

for “and Switzerland” substitute  “, Switzerland and the overseas territories”
;

63.e

in paragraph 7A(1)(c)—

63.e.i

omit “Gibraltar,”;

63.e.ii

for “and Switzerland” substitute  “, Switzerland and the overseas territories”
;

63.f

in paragraph 8A(1)(b)—

63.f.i

omit “Gibraltar,”;

63.f.ii

for “and Switzerland” substitute  “, Switzerland and the overseas territories”
;

63.g

in paragraph 10A(1)—

63.g.i

in paragraph (c)—

63.g.i.aa

omit “Gibraltar,”;

63.g.i.bb

for “and Switzerland” substitute  “, Switzerland and the overseas territories”
;

63.g.ii

in paragraph (d)—

63.g.ii.aa

omit “Gibraltar,”;

63.g.ii.bb

for “and Switzerland” substitute  “, Switzerland and the overseas territories”
;

63.h

in paragraph 10A(2)—

63.h.i

omit “Gibraltar,”;

63.h.ii

for “and Switzerland” substitute  “, Switzerland and the overseas territories”
;

63.i

after paragraph 10BA insert—

63.i.10BB

63.i.10BB.1

A person—

63.i.10BB.1.a

who is settled in the United Kingdom on the first day of the first academic
year of the course;

63.i.10BB.1.b

who is attending or undertaking a designated course in Wales;

63.i.10BB.1.c

who has been ordinarily resident in the specified British overseas territories
for at least part of the three-year period preceding the first day of the
first academic year of the course;

63.i.10BB.1.d

who has been ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United
Kingdom, the Islands and the specified British overseas territories throughout
the three-year period preceding the first day of the first academic year of
the course;

63.i.10BB.1.e

who did not move to Wales from the Islands for the purpose of undertaking the
designated course, or a course which, disregarding any intervening vacation,
the person undertook immediately before undertaking the designated course; and

63.i.10BB.1.f

subject to sub-paragraph (2), whose ordinary residence in the territory
comprising the United Kingdom, the Islands and the specified British overseas
territories has not during any part of the period referred to in paragraph (d)
been wholly or mainly for the purpose of receiving full-time education.

63.i.10BB.2

Paragraph (f) of sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to a person who is treated
as being ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United Kingdom,
the Islands and the specified British overseas territories in accordance with
paragraph 1(4).

;

63.j

for paragraph 10D substitute—

63.j.10D

63.j.10D.1

A person—

63.j.10D.1.a

who is—

63.j.10D.1.a.i

a United Kingdom national who has resident status in Gibraltar granted by the
Government of Gibraltar; or

63.j.10D.1.a.ii

a family member of a United Kingdom national where that family member has
resident status in Gibraltar granted by the Government of Gibraltar;

63.j.10D.1.b

who is attending or undertaking a designated course in Wales;

63.j.10D.1.c

who has been ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United
Kingdom, Gibraltar, the European Economic Area and Switzerland throughout the
three-year period preceding the first day of the first academic year of the
course; and

63.j.10D.1.d

subject to sub-paragraph (3), whose ordinary residence in the territory
comprising the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the European Economic Area and
Switzerland has not during any part of the period referred to in paragraph (c)
been wholly or mainly for the purpose of receiving full-time education.

63.j.10D.2

A person—

63.j.10D.2.a

who is—

63.j.10D.2.a.i

an EU national who has a right of residence in Gibraltar arising under the EU
withdrawal agreement; or

63.j.10D.2.a.ii

a family member of an EU national, where that family member has a right of
residence in Gibraltar arising under the EU withdrawal agreement;

63.j.10D.2.b

who is attending or undertaking a designated course in Wales;

63.j.10D.2.c

who has been ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United
Kingdom, the European Economic Area, Switzerland and the overseas territories
throughout the three-year period preceding the first day of the first academic
year of the course; and

63.j.10D.2.d

subject to sub-paragraph (3), whose ordinary residence in the territory
comprising the United Kingdom, the European Economic Area, Switzerland and the
overseas territories has not during any part of the period referred to in
paragraph (c) been wholly or mainly for the purpose of receiving full-time
education.

63.j.10D.3

Paragraph (d) of sub-paragraphs (1) and (2) does not apply to a person treated
as being ordinarily resident in the territory referred to in paragraph (c) of
those sub-paragraphs in accordance with paragraph 1(4).

63.k

in paragraph 11A(d)—

63.k.i

omit “Gibraltar,”;

63.k.ii

for “and Switzerland” substitute  “, Switzerland and the overseas territories”
;

63.l

in paragraph 12A—

63.l.i

in sub-paragraph (c)—

63.l.i.aa

omit “Gibraltar,”;

63.l.i.bb

for “and Switzerland” substitute  “, Switzerland and the overseas territories”
;

63.l.ii

in sub-paragraph (d)—

63.l.ii.aa

omit “Gibraltar,”;

63.l.ii.bb

for “and Switzerland” substitute  “, Switzerland and the overseas territories”
;

63.m

in paragraph 13A(d)—

63.m.i

omit “Gibraltar,”;

63.m.ii

for “and Turkey” substitute  “, Turkey and the overseas territories” .

#### Family members of settled persons

64

In Schedule 1—

64.a

in paragraph 1(1), in paragraph (e) of the definition of “family member”, for
“paragraphs 10, 10B, 10C and 10D” substitute  “paragraphs 10, 10B and 10D and
for the purposes of paragraph 10C in relation to a person settled in the
United Kingdom” ;

64.b

in paragraph 10C(1)(a), for “a United Kingdom national” substitute  “settled
in the United Kingdom” .

#### Amendment to annual threshold

65

In regulation 14(5)(a), for “£10,609” substitute  “fifty percent of the amount
specified in regulation 13(1)” .

#### Financial support – uplifts

66

In regulation 13—

66.a

in paragraph (1), for “£27,880” substitute  “£28,395” ;

66.b

in paragraph (2)(b), for “£27,880” substitute  “£28,395” .

### Amendments to the Education (Student Support) (Postgraduate Master’s Degrees) (Wales) Regulations 2019

#### Introduction

67

The Education (Student Support) (Postgraduate Master’s Degrees) (Wales)
Regulations 2019  are amended in accordance with this Part.

#### Students from British overseas territories and related amendments

68

In regulation 9(1)(a)(i), after “8BA,” insert  “8BB,” .

69

In regulation 16(1)(b)(iii), for “or 8D(a)” substitute  “, 8D(1)(a) or
8D(2)(a)” .

70

In Schedule 2 —

70.a

in paragraph 1(2)(d)—

70.a.i

omit “Gibraltar,”;

70.a.ii

for “and Switzerland” substitute  “, Switzerland and the overseas territories”
;

70.b

in paragraph 6A(1)(b)—

70.b.i

omit “Gibraltar,”;

70.b.ii

for “and Switzerland” substitute  “, Switzerland and the overseas territories”
;

70.c

in paragraph 6A(2)(b)—

70.c.i

omit “Gibraltar,”;

70.c.ii

for “and Switzerland” substitute  “, Switzerland and the overseas territories”
;

70.d

in paragraph 8A(1)(c)—

70.d.i

omit “Gibraltar,”;

70.d.ii

for “and Switzerland” substitute  “, Switzerland and the overseas territories”
;

70.e

in paragraph 8A(1)(d)—

70.e.i

omit “Gibraltar,”;

70.e.ii

for “and Switzerland” substitute  “, Switzerland and the overseas territories”
;

70.f

in paragraph 8A(2)(d)—

70.f.i

omit “Gibraltar,”;

70.f.ii

for “and Switzerland” substitute  “, Switzerland and the overseas territories”
;

70.g

after paragraph 8BA insert—

70.g.8BB

70.g.8BB.1

A person—

70.g.8BB.1.a

who is settled in the United Kingdom on the first day of the first academic
year of the course,

70.g.8BB.1.b

who is undertaking a designated course in Wales,

70.g.8BB.1.c

who has been ordinarily resident in the specified British overseas territories
for at least part of the three-year period preceding the first day of the
first academic year of the course,

70.g.8BB.1.d

who has been ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United
Kingdom, the Islands and the specified British overseas territories throughout
the three-year period preceding the first day of the first academic year of
the course,

70.g.8BB.1.e

who did not move to Wales from the Islands for the purpose of undertaking the
designated course, or a course which, disregarding any intervening vacation,
the person undertook immediately before undertaking the designated course, and

70.g.8BB.1.f

subject to sub-paragraph (2), whose ordinary residence in the territory
comprising the United Kingdom, the Islands and the specified British overseas
territories has not during any part of the period referred to in paragraph (d)
been wholly or mainly for the purpose of receiving full-time education.

70.g.8BB.2

Paragraph (f) of sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to a person who is treated
as being ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United Kingdom,
the Islands and the specified British overseas territories in accordance with
paragraph 11(2).

;

70.h

for paragraph 8D substitute—

70.h.8D

70.h.8D.1

A person—

70.h.8D.1.a

who is—

70.h.8D.1.a.i

a United Kingdom national who has resident status in Gibraltar granted by the
Government of Gibraltar, or

70.h.8D.1.a.ii

a family member of a United Kingdom national where that family member has
resident status in Gibraltar granted by the Government of Gibraltar,

70.h.8D.1.b

who is undertaking a designated course in Wales,

70.h.8D.1.c

who has been ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United
Kingdom, Gibraltar, the EEA and Switzerland throughout the three-year period
preceding the first day of the first academic year of the course, and

70.h.8D.1.d

subject to sub-paragraph (3), whose ordinary residence in the territory
comprising the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the EEA and Switzerland has not
during any part of the period referred to in paragraph (c) been wholly or
mainly for the purpose of receiving full-time education.

70.h.8D.2

A person—

70.h.8D.2.a

who is—

70.h.8D.2.a.i

an EU national who has a right of residence in Gibraltar arising under the EU
withdrawal agreement, or

70.h.8D.2.a.ii

a family member of an EU national, where that family member has a right of
residence in Gibraltar arising under the EU withdrawal agreement,

70.h.8D.2.b

who is undertaking a designated course in Wales,

70.h.8D.2.c

who has been ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United
Kingdom, the EEA, Switzerland and the overseas territories throughout the
three-year period preceding the first day of the first academic year of the
course, and

70.h.8D.2.d

subject to sub-paragraph (3), whose ordinary residence in the territory
comprising the United Kingdom, the EEA, Switzerland and the overseas
territories has not during any part of the period referred to in paragraph (c)
been wholly or mainly for the purpose of receiving full-time education.

70.h.8D.3

Paragraph (d) of sub-paragraphs (1) and (2) does not apply to a person treated
as being ordinarily resident in the territory referred to in paragraph (c) of
those sub-paragraphs in accordance with paragraph 11(2).

;

70.i

in paragraph 9A(c)—

70.i.i

omit “Gibraltar,”;

70.i.ii

for “and Switzerland” substitute  “, Switzerland and the overseas territories”
;

70.j

in paragraph 9A(d)—

70.j.i

omit “Gibraltar,”;

70.j.ii

for “and Switzerland” substitute  “Switzerland and the overseas territories” ;

70.k

in paragraph 10A(1)(d)—

70.k.i

omit “Gibraltar,”;

70.k.ii

for “and Turkey” substitute  “, Turkey and the overseas territories” ;

70.l

in paragraph 11—

70.l.i

for sub-paragraph (2) substitute—

70.l.i.2

For the purposes of this Schedule, a person (“ A ”) is to be treated as
ordinarily resident in an area if A would have been so resident but for the
fact that—

70.l.i.2.a

A,

70.l.i.2.b

A’s spouse or civil partner, or

70.l.i.2.c

in the case of a dependent direct relative in the ascending line, A’s child or
child’s spouse or civil partner,

is or was temporarily employed outside the area in question.

;

70.l.ii

for sub-paragraph (3) substitute—

70.l.ii.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (2), temporary employment outside the area
in question includes—

70.l.ii.3.a

in the case of members of the regular naval, military or air forces of the
Crown, any period which they serve outside the United Kingdom as members of
such forces;

70.l.ii.3.b

in the case of members of the regular armed forces of a specified British
overseas territory, any period which they serve outside the territory
comprising the United Kingdom and the specified British overseas territories
as members of such forces;

70.l.ii.3.c

in the case of members of the regular armed forces of the Republic of Ireland,
any period which they serve outside the territory comprising the United
Kingdom, the Islands and the Republic of Ireland as members of such forces;

70.l.ii.3.d

in the case of members of the regular armed forces of an EEA State or
Switzerland, any period which they serve outside the territory comprising the
United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the EEA and Switzerland as members of such forces;

70.l.ii.3.e

in the case of members of the regular armed forces of Turkey, any period which
they serve outside the territory comprising the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the
EEA, Switzerland and Turkey as members of such forces;

70.l.ii.3.f

in the case of members of the regular armed forces of an EU overseas
territory, any period which they serve outside the territory comprising the
United Kingdom, the EEA, Switzerland and the overseas territories.

;

70.m

in paragraph 13(1), at the appropriate places insert—

      “ overseas territories ” (“ tiriogaethau tramor ”) means Anguilla,
Aruba, Bermuda, British Antarctic Territory, British Indian Ocean Territory,
British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands, Faroe Islands,
French Polynesia, French Southern and Antarctic Territories, Gibraltar,
Greenland, Mayotte, Montserrat, Netherlands Antilles (Bonaire, Curaçao, Saba,
Sint Eustatius, Sint Maarten), Pitcairn, Henderson, Ducie and Oeno Islands,
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, St Barthélemy, St Helena and
Dependencies (Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha), St Pierre et Miquelon,
the Territory of New Caledonia and Dependencies, Turks and Caicos Islands, and
Wallis and Futuna;

;

      “ specified British overseas territories ” (“ tiriogaethau tramor
Prydeinig penodedig ”) means Anguilla, Bermuda, British Antarctic Territory,
British Indian Ocean Territory, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands,
Falkland Islands, Gibraltar, Montserrat, Pitcairn, Henderson, Ducie and Oeno
Islands, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, St Helena and
Dependencies (Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha), and Turks and Caicos
Islands;

.

71

In Schedule 4, in Table 3, at the appropriate places insert the following
table entries—

      “overseas territories” Schedule 2, paragraph 13(1)

      “specified British overseas territories” Schedule 2, paragraph 13(1)

#### Family members of settled persons

72

In Schedule 2, in paragraph 8C(a), for “a United Kingdom national” substitute
“settled in the United Kingdom” .

#### Financial support – uplifts

73

In regulation 31—

73.a

in paragraph (2), for “£17,430” substitute  “£17,770” ;

73.b

in paragraph (3)(b), for “£17,430” substitute  “£17,770” .

74

In regulation 36—

74.a

in paragraph (8), for “£17,430” substitute  “£17,770” ;

74.b

in paragraph (10), for “£17,430” substitute  “£17,770” .

      Jeremy Miles   Minister for Education and Welsh language, one of the
Welsh Ministers     30 January 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend—     a     the Education (Fees and Awards) (Wales)
Regulations 2007 (“ the 2007 Regulations ”) (see Part 2 of the Regulations),
b     the Education (European University Institute) (Wales) Regulations 2014
(“ the 2014 Regulations ”) (see Part 3 of the Regulations),         c     the
Higher Education (Qualifying Courses, Qualifying Persons and Supplementary
Provision) (Wales) Regulations 2015 (“ the 2015 Regulations ”) (see Part 4 of
the Regulations),         d     the Education (Student Support) (Wales)
Regulations 2017 (“ the 2017 Regulations ”) (see Part 5 of the Regulations),
e     the Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2018 (“ the 2018
Regulations ”) (see Part 6 of the Regulations),         f     the Education
(Postgraduate Doctoral Degree Loans) (Wales) Regulations 2018 (“ the Doctoral
Degree Loan Regulations ”) (see Part 7 of the Regulations), and         g
the Education (Student Support) (Postgraduate Master’s Degrees) (Wales)
Regulations 2019 (“ the 2019 Regulations ”) (see Part 8 of the Regulations).

  Part 1 of these Regulations provides for the commencement and application of
these Regulations. Regulation 2 sets out those regulations that are to apply
to the provision of student support in relation to an academic year beginning
on or after 1 August 2023 ( see  paragraph 1) and those regulations that are
to apply to the provision of student support in relation to a course that
begins on or after 1 August 2023 ( seem  paragraph 2).

  Parts 2 and 4 amend the 2007 Regulations and 2015 Regulations respectively.
Chapter 2 of those Parts make amendments so that home fee status and
qualifying person status applies to students who are from specified British
overseas territories (“BOTs”) and who are settled in the United Kingdom.
Chapter 3 of those Parts makes amendments so that family members of settled
persons in the United Kingdom qualify for home fee status and qualifying
person status.

  Chapter 2 of Part 3 omits redundant provisions in the 2014 Regulations.

  In each of Part 6, Part 7 and Part 8, Chapter 2 provides for persons who
have settled status on arrival in the United Kingdom, and who came to the
United Kingdom from specified BOTs, to qualify for certain student support
(undergraduates qualify for tuition fee support but do not qualify for grants
and loans for living costs). To qualify for support, persons resident in the
BOTs will need to satisfy the three-year ordinary residence requirement in the
United Kingdom, the Crown Dependencies or specified BOTs. Equivalent provision
is also made for those covered by the EU withdrawal agreement, the EEA-EFTA
Separation Agreement and the Swiss citizens’ rights agreement who have spent
part of their residence period in either the BOTs or EU overseas territories.

  In each of Part 6, Part 7 and Part 8, Chapter 3 makes amendments so that
family members of all settled persons in the United Kingdom who are starting
courses beginning on or after 1 August 2023 qualify for student support. This
category of person must be ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and
Islands for three years before the start of their course in order to qualify
for support. Previously, only family members of United Kingdom nationals
qualified for support.

  Chapter 2 of Part 5, Chapter 4 of Part 6, Chapter 5 of Part 7 and Chapter 4
of Part 8 increase various amounts specified in the 2017 Regulations, the 2018
Regulations, the Doctoral Degree Loan Regulations and the 2019 Regulations
respectively.

  Chapter 3 of Part 5 and Chapter 5 of Part 6 amend the 2017 Regulations and
the 2018 Regulations respectively to allow part-time students studying at an
intensity of between 25% and 50% to qualify for grants for dependants and to
increase the amount of income disregarded when calculating entitlement to
grants for dependants.

  Chapter 4 of Part 7 amends the Doctoral Degree Loan Regulations by
increasing the maximum amount of support that the Welsh Ministers may pay as
an instalment of support due to a student in respect of any one academic year.

  The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory
Impact Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a
result, a regulatory impact assessment has been prepared as to the likely
costs and benefits of complying with these Regulations. A copy can be obtained
from the Higher Education Division, Welsh Government, Cathays Park, Cardiff,
CF10 3NQ.

