Title: The York and North Yorkshire Combined Authority Order 2023
Date: 2024-06-14
Description: This Order establishes the York and North Yorkshire Combined Authority (“the Combined Authority”), provides for the election of a Mayor and the conferral of functions of local authorities and other public authorities on the Combined Authority.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/1432

## The York and North Yorkshire Combined Authority Order 2023

    Local Government, England       Transport, England       Police, England
Fire And Rescue Services, England

  Made   19th December 2023

  Coming into force in accordance with article 1

      The Secretary of State makes the following Order in exercise of the
powers conferred by sections 103(1), 104(1), 105(1) and (3), 105A(1), (2),
(3), (4)(b) and (7), 107A, 107D(1), (3)(c)(ii), (4), (5), (7) and (8), 107E(1)
to (4), 107F(1), (5) and (6), 114(1) and (3), 115, 116 and 117(1A) and (5) of,
and paragraph 3 of Schedule 5B and Schedule 5C to, the Local Democracy,
Economic Development and Construction Act 2009  (“ the 2009 Act ”).       The
Secretary of State, having had regard to a scheme prepared and published under
section 109 of the 2009 Act , considers that—         the making of this Order
is likely to improve the exercise of statutory functions in the area to which
the Order relates; and           any consultation required by section 110(2)
of the 2009 Act  has been carried out.              The Secretary of State is
satisfied that the area to which this Order relates meets the conditions set
out in section 103(2) and (5) of the 2009 Act.       In making this Order, the
Secretary of State has had regard to the need to reflect the identities and
interests of local communities and the need to secure effective and convenient
local government .       In accordance with sections 104(10), 105(3A), 105B(1)
and (2), 107D(9) and 107F(4) of the 2009 Act, the councils for the local
government areas of North Yorkshire and the City of York have consented to the
making of this Order.       In accordance with section 105B(9) of the 2009 Act
the Secretary of State has laid before Parliament a report explaining the
effect of this Order and why the Secretary of State considers it appropriate
to make this Order.       A draft of this instrument has been laid before, and
approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament pursuant to section
117(2) of the 2009 Act.           Accordingly, the Secretary of State makes
the following Order—

### General

#### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the York and North Yorkshire Combined Authority
Order 2023.

1.2

Save as provided in paragraph (3) this Order comes into force on the day after
the day on which it is made.

1.3

Articles 27, 41(1) and 42 to 44 come into force on 7th May 2024.

1.4

This Order extends to England and Wales.

#### Interpretation

2

In this Order and in any modifications to legislation made by this Order—

      “ the 1980 Act ” means the Highways Act 1980 ;           “ the 1984 Act
” means the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 ;           “ the 1985 Act ”
means the Housing Act 1985 ;           “ the 1989 Act ” means the Local
Government and Housing Act 1989 ;           “ the 1990 Act ” means the Town
and Country Planning Act 1990 ;           “ the 1999 Act ” means the Greater
London Authority Act 1999 ;           “ the 2000 Act ” means the Transport Act
2000 ;           “ the 2003 Act ” means the Local Government Act 2003 ;
“ the 2004 Act ” means the Fire and Rescue Services Act 2004 ;           “ the
2008 Act ” means the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 ;           “ the 2009
Act ” means the Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act
2009 ;           “ the 2011 Act ” means the Localism Act 2011 ;           “
the BRS Act ” means the Business Rate Supplements Act 2009 ;           “ the
PRSR Act ” means the Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011 ;
“ the TM Act ” means the Traffic Management Act 2004 ;           “ Area ”
means the area of the Combined Authority;           “ chief fire officer ”
means the person with responsibility for managing the fire and rescue service;
“ Combined Authority ” means the York and North Yorkshire Combined Authority
as established by article 3;           “ community risk management plan ”
means a plan which—         is prepared and published by the Combined
Authority in accordance with the Fire and Rescue National Framework, and
sets out for the period covered by the document in accordance with the
requirements of the Framework—         the Combined Authority’s priorities and
objectives, and           an assessment of all foreseeable fire and rescue
related risks that could affect its community, in accordance with the
discharge of the Combined Authority’s functions as a fire and rescue
authority;                       “ constituent councils ” means the councils
for the local government areas of North Yorkshire and the City of York;
“ Corporation ” means a corporation established by the Secretary of State in
accordance with the provisions in section 198 of the 2011 Act, as modified by
Schedule 3 to this Order, following the designation of an area of land by the
Combined Authority;           “ deputy mayor for policing and crime ” means
the deputy mayor for policing and crime for the Area;           “ election for
the return of the mayor ” means an election held pursuant to article 4;
“ fire and rescue authority ” means a fire and rescue authority under the 2004
Act;           “ fire and rescue declaration ” means a document which—
is prepared and published by the Combined Authority in accordance with the
Fire and Rescue National Framework, and           contains a statement of the
way in which the Combined Authority has had regard, in the period covered by
the document, to the Framework and to any community risk management plan
prepared by the Combined Authority for that period;                 “ fire and
rescue functions ” means functions conferred on the Combined Authority as a
fire and rescue authority by, or by virtue of, any enactment;           “ Fire
and Rescue National Framework ” means the document prepared by the Secretary
of State under section 21 of the 2004 Act ;           “ fire and rescue
service ” means the personnel, services and equipment secured for the purposes
of carrying out the functions of a fire and rescue authority under—
section 6 of the 2004 Act (fire safety);           section 7 of that Act
(fire-fighting);           section 8 of that Act (road traffic accidents);
any order under section 9 of that Act (emergencies) which applies to the FRA;
section 2 of the Civil Contingencies Act 2004 (duty to assess, plan and
advise)  and any subordinate legislation made under that Act applying to the
FRA;           any other provision of, or made under, an enactment which
confers functions on a fire and rescue authority;                 “ FRA ”
means the North Yorkshire Police, Fire and Crime Commissioner Fire and Rescue
Authority ;           “ highway authority ” and “ local highway authority ”
have the same meaning as in sections 1 to 3 and 329(1) of the 1980 Act ;
“ lead member ” means the member designated pursuant to paragraph 1(2) of
Schedule 1;           “ Mayor ” means the mayor for the Area, except in the
term “Mayor of London”;           “ PCC component ” means the component of the
precept under section 40 of the Local Government Finance Act 1992 , as
modified by the Combined Authorities (Finance) Order 2017)  in respect of the
Mayor’s PCC functions ;           “ PCC component council tax requirement ”
means the component of the council tax requirement calculated under section
42A of the Local Government Finance Act 1992  (as modified by the Combined
Authorities (Finance) Order 2017) in respect of the Mayor’s PCC functions;
“ Police, Fire and Crime Panel ” means the police and crime panel established
and maintained in accordance with Schedule 6 to the PRSR Act  (police and
crime panel) for the North Yorkshire police area;           “ proper officer
”, in relation to a body and any purpose or area, means an officer appointed
by the body for that purpose or area.

### Establishment of the Combined Authority and election of the Mayor

#### Establishment

3

3.1

There is established as a body corporate a combined authority for the areas of
the constituent councils.

3.2

The combined authority is to be known as the York and North Yorkshire Combined
Authority.

3.3

The functions of the Combined Authority are those functions conferred or
imposed upon it by this Order or by any other enactment (whenever passed or
made), or as may be delegated to it by or under this Order or any other
enactment (whenever passed or made).

#### Mayor

4

4.1

There is to be a mayor for the Area.

4.2

The first election for the return of the Mayor is to take place on 2nd May
2024.

4.3

Subsequent elections for the return of the Mayor for the Area must take place
in every fourth year thereafter on the same day as the ordinary day of
election.

4.4

The term of office of the Mayor returned at an election for the return of a
mayor for the Area in 2024—

4.4.a

begins with 7th May 2024; and

4.4.b

ends with the third day after the day of the poll at the next election for the
return of the Mayor for the Area.

4.5

The term of office of the Mayor returned in each subsequent fourth year—

4.5.a

begins with the fourth day after the day of the poll at the election for the
return of the Mayor for the Area; and

4.5.b

ends with the third day after the day of the poll at the next election for the
return of the Mayor for the Area.

4.6

In this article “ ordinary day of election ” in relation to any year, means
the day which is the ordinary day of election in that year of councillors for
counties and districts in England as determined in accordance with section 37
of the Representation of the People Act 1983 .

#### Political adviser

5

5.1

The Mayor may appoint one person as their political adviser.

5.2

Any appointment under paragraph (1) is an appointment as an employee of the
Combined Authority.

5.3

No appointment under paragraph (1) may extend beyond—

5.3.a

the term of office for which the Mayor who made the appointment was elected;
or

5.3.b

where the Mayor who made the appointment ceases to be the Mayor before the end
of the term of office for which the Mayor was elected, the date on which the
Mayor ceases to hold that office.

5.4

A person appointed under paragraph (1) is to be regarded for the purposes of
Part 1 of the 1989 Act (political restriction of officers and staff) as
holding a politically restricted post under a local authority.

5.5

Section 9(1), (8), (9) and (11) of the 1989 Act (assistants for political
groups)  applies in relation to an appointment under paragraph (1) as if—

5.5.a

any appointment to that post were the appointment of a person in pursuance of
that section; and

5.5.b

the Combined Authority were a relevant authority for the purposes of that
section.

5.6

Subsection (3) of section 9 of the 1989 Act applies in relation to an
appointment under paragraph (1) as if the words from “and that the appointment
terminates” to the end of that subsection were omitted.

#### Constitution

6

Schedule 1 (which makes provision about the constitution of the Combined
Authority) has effect.

### Housing, regeneration and planning

#### Conferral of functions corresponding to functions that the HCA has in relation to the Area

7

7.1

The functions of the Homes and Communities Agency (“ HCA ”)  which are
specified in the following provisions of the 2008 Act are to be functions of
the Combined Authority that are exercisable in relation to the Area—

7.1.a

section 5 (powers to provide housing or other land);

7.1.b

section 6 (powers for regeneration, development or effective use of land);

7.1.c

section 7 (powers in relation to infrastructure);

7.1.d

section 8 (powers to deal with land etc);

7.1.e

section 9 (acquisition of land);

7.1.f

section 10 (restrictions on disposal of land);

7.1.g

section 11 (main powers in relation to acquired land) ;

7.1.h

section 12 (powers in relation to, and for, statutory undertakers);

7.1.i

section 19 (power to give financial assistance);

7.1.j

paragraphs 19 and 20 of Schedule 3 (powers in relation to burial grounds and
consecrated land etc); and

7.1.k

paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 (extinguishment or removal powers for the HCA), 10
(counter-notices) and 20 (notification of proposal to make order) of Schedule
4.

7.2

The Combined Authority must exercise the functions described in the provisions
specified in paragraph (1) for the purposes of, or for purposes incidental to
the objectives of—

7.2.a

improving the supply and quality of housing in the Area;

7.2.b

securing the regeneration or development of land or infrastructure in the
Area;

7.2.c

supporting in other ways the creation, regeneration or development of
communities in the Area or their continued well-being; and

7.2.d

contributing to the achievement of sustainable development and good design in
the Area,

with a view to meeting the needs of people living in the Area.

7.3

The functions described in the provisions specified in paragraph (1) are—

7.3.a

exercisable concurrently with the HCA; and

7.3.b

subject to Schedules 2 (acquisition of land) and 3 (main powers in relation to
land acquired by the HCA) to the 2008 Act .

7.4

In paragraph (2) “good design” and “needs” have the meanings given by section
2(2) of the 2008 Act and the reference to improving the supply of housing
includes a reference to improving the supply of particular kinds of housing.

7.5

The exercise of the function referred to in sub-paragraph (e) of paragraph (1)
is subject to the condition set out in paragraph 4 (7) of Schedule 1 to this
Order (Proceedings of the Combined Authority).

#### Acquisition and appropriation of land for planning and public purposes

8

8.1

The functions of the constituent councils specified in the following
provisions as applied by article 9 (2) to (5) are exercisable by the Combined
Authority in relation to the Area—

8.1.a

section 17 of the 1985 Act (acquisition of land for housing purposes) ;

8.1.b

section 18 of the 1985 Act (duties with respect to buildings acquired for
housing purposes);

8.1.c

section 226 of the 1990 Act (compulsory acquisition of land for development
and other planning purposes) ;

8.1.d

section 227 of the 1990 Act (acquisition of land by agreement);

8.1.e

section 229 of the 1990 Act (appropriation of land forming part of common,
etc);

8.1.f

section 230(1)(a) of the 1990 Act (acquisition of land for purposes of
exchange);

8.1.g

section 232 of the 1990 Act (appropriation of land held for planning
purposes);

8.1.h

section 233 of the 1990 Act (disposal by local authorities of land held for
planning purposes) ;

8.1.i

section 235 of the 1990 Act (development of land held for planning purposes);

8.1.j

section 236 of the 1990 Act (extinguishment of rights over land compulsorily
acquired) ;

8.1.k

section 238 of the 1990 Act (use and development of consecrated land );

8.1.l

section 239 of the 1990 Act (use and development of burial grounds); and

8.1.m

section 241 of the 1990 Act (use and development of open spaces).

8.2

The functions referred to in paragraph (1) are exercisable concurrently with
the constituent councils.

8.3

The exercise of the functions referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) and (c) of
paragraph (1) is subject to the condition set in paragraph 4 (7) of Schedule 1
to this Order (Proceedings of the Combined Authority).

#### Application of provisions of the 1985 Act, the 1990 Act and the 2008 Act

9

9.1

This article has effect in consequence of articles 7 and 8.

9.2

The provisions set out in section 17 of the 1985 Act (acquisition of land for
housing purposes) apply to the Combined Authority as they apply to a
constituent council.

9.3

For the purposes of article 8(1)(a) and (b) the Combined Authority is to be
treated as a local housing authority for the Area .

9.4

Part 9 of the 1990 Act (acquisition and appropriation of land for planning
purposes, etc) applies in relation to the Combined Authority, and land which
has been vested in or acquired by the Combined Authority for planning and
public purposes, as it applies to a constituent council and land which has
been vested in or acquired by a constituent council for planning and public
purposes.

9.5

Chapters 1 and 2 of Part 1 of, and Schedules 2 to 4 to, the 2008 Act apply in
relation to the powers of the Combined Authority to acquire land for housing
and infrastructure as they apply to the HCA and land acquired by the HCA with
the modifications made by Parts 1 and 2 of Schedule 2 to this Order
(Modifications of the 2008 Act).

### Mayoral development corporation

#### Mayoral development corporation

10

10.1

The Combined Authority has, in relation to the Area, functions corresponding
to the functions described in the provisions in the 2011 Act referred to in
paragraph (2) that the Mayor of London has in relation to Greater London.

10.2

The provisions in the 2011 Act referred to in paragraph (1) are—

10.2.a

section 197 (designation of Mayoral development areas);

10.2.b

section 199 (exclusion of land from Mayoral development areas);

10.2.c

section 200 (transfers of property etc to a Mayoral development corporation) ;

10.2.d

section 202 (functions in relation to town and country planning) ;

10.2.e

section 204 (removal or restriction of planning functions);

10.2.f

section 214 (powers in relation to discretionary relief from non-domestic
rates);

10.2.g

section 215 (reviews);

10.2.h

section 216 (transfers of property, rights and liabilities) ;

10.2.i

section 217 (dissolution: final steps);

10.2.j

section 219 (guidance by the Mayor);

10.2.k

section 220 (directions by the Mayor);

10.2.l

section 221 (consents);

10.2.m

paragraph 1 of Schedule 21 (membership);

10.2.n

paragraph 2 of Schedule 21 (terms of appointment of members);

10.2.o

paragraph 3 of Schedule 21 (staff);

10.2.p

paragraph 4 of Schedule 21 (remuneration etc: members and staff);

10.2.q

paragraph 6 of Schedule 21 (committees); and

10.2.r

paragraph 8 of Schedule 21 (proceedings and meetings).

#### Application of provisions in the 2011 Act

11

11.1

Chapter 2 of Part 8 of the 2011 Act (Mayoral development corporations) applies
in relation to the Combined Authority as it applies in relation to the Mayor
of London, with the modifications made by Schedule 3 to this Order.

11.2

Chapter 2 of Part 8 of the 2011 Act applies in relation to a Corporation as it
applies in relation to a Mayoral development corporation, with the
modifications made by Schedule 3 to this Order.

11.3

Subject to paragraph (6), in any enactment (whenever passed or made)—

11.3.a

any reference to a Mayoral development corporation; or

11.3.b

any reference which falls to be read as a reference to a Mayoral development
corporation,

is to be treated as including a reference to a Corporation.

11.4

For the purposes of any transfer scheme relating to a Corporation under any
provisions of the 2011 Act applied with modifications by this Order, paragraph
9 of Schedule 24 to the 2011 Act (transfers under scheme under section 17,
200(1) or (4) or 216(1)) applies in relation to—

11.4.a

any property, rights or liabilities transferred to or from a Corporation in
accordance with a transfer scheme;

11.4.b

anything done for the purposes of, or in relation to, or in consequence of,
the transfer of any property, rights or liabilities to or from a Corporation
in accordance with such a transfer scheme.

11.5

For the purposes of establishing a Corporation, giving the Corporation a name,
giving effect to any decisions notified to the Secretary of State under
sections 199(4) (exclusion of land from Mayoral development areas), 202(8)
(decisions about planning functions), or 214(6) (powers in relation to
discretionary relief from non-domestic rates) of the 2011 Act or in relation
to the transfer of land to or from a Corporation under any provision of the
2011 Act, applied with modifications by this Order, section 235 of the 2011
Act (orders and regulations) applies in relation to—

11.5.a

the power of a Secretary of State to make an order under sections 198(2)
(mayoral development corporations: establishment) and 200(6) (transfers of
property etc to a Mayoral development corporation) of that Act; and

11.5.b

the power of the Treasury to make regulations under paragraph 9(2) of Schedule
24 to that Act,

as it applies in relation to the establishment of a Mayoral development
corporation, giving the corporation a name, giving effect to any decisions
notified to the Secretary of State (under sections 199(4), 202(8) and 214(6)
of the 2011 Act) or in relation to the transfer of land to or from a Mayoral
development corporation.

11.6

Paragraph (3) does not apply to—

11.6.a

paragraph 9(8)(a) of Schedule 2 to the Channel Tunnel Rail Link Act 1996
(works: further and supplementary provisions) ;

11.6.b

section 31(1A) of the 1999 Act (limits of the general power) ;

11.6.c

section 38 of the 1999 Act (delegation) ;

11.6.d

section 60A(3) of the 1999 Act (confirmation hearings etc for certain
appointments by the Mayor) ;

11.6.e

section 68(6) of the 1999 Act (disqualification and political restriction) ;

11.6.f

section 73 of the 1999 Act (monitoring officer) ;

11.6.g

section 403B of the 1999 Act (acquisition of land by MDC and TfL for shared
purposes) ;

11.6.h

section 424 of the 1999 Act (interpretation) ;

11.6.i

section 24(4) of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 (conformity
with spatial development strategy) ; and

11.6.j

paragraph 8(8)(a) of Schedule 2 to the Crossrail Act 2008 (works: further and
supplementary provisions) .

11.7

In this article, “ scheme ” means a transfer scheme under section 200(1) or
(4) or 216(1) of the 2011 Act.

#### Mayoral development corporation: incidental provisions

12

12.1

The following provisions of the 1989 Act apply in relation to a Corporation as
if it were a local authority—

12.1.a

section 1 (disqualification and political restriction of certain officers and
staff) ; and

12.1.b

sections 2 and 3A (politically restricted posts and exemptions from
restriction) so far as they have effect for the purposes of section 1.

12.2

Section 5 of the 1989 Act (designation and reports of monitoring officer)
applies in relation to the Combined Authority as if a Corporation were a
committee of the Combined Authority.

12.3

Section 32 of the 2003 Act applies in relation to expenditure of a Corporation
as if—

12.3.a

each reference to a functional body were a reference to a Corporation;

12.3.b

each reference to the Greater London Authority were a reference to the
Combined Authority;

12.3.c

each reference to the Mayor of London were a reference to the Mayor; and

12.3.d

subsection (7) were omitted.

### Transport

#### Local Transport

13

13.1

The following functions are exercisable by the Combined Authority in relation
to the Area—

13.1.a

the functions of the constituent councils specified in Parts 4 (local
passenger transport services) and 5 (financial provisions) of the Transport
Act 1985 ;

13.1.b

the functions of the constituent councils as local transport authorities
specified in Part 2 (local transport) of the 2000 Act.

13.2

Subject to paragraph (3), the functions mentioned in paragraph (1) are
exercisable by the Combined Authority instead of by the constituent councils.

13.3

The functions described in section 108(1)(b), (2ZA) and (3B), and section
109(4) of the 2000 Act  are exercisable by the Combined Authority concurrently
with the constituent councils, subject to the modifications set out in
paragraph (4).

13.4

The modifications are—

13.4.a

in section 108(1)(b), the reference to “ those policies ” is a reference to
the policies developed under section 108(1)(a) of the 2000 Act in accordance
with the functions conferred on the Combined Authority by paragraph (1)(b);

13.4.b

in section 108(3B), the reference to “ their plan ” is a reference to the
local transport plan prepared under section 108(3) in accordance with the
functions conferred on the Combined Authority by paragraph (1)(b); and

13.4.c

in section 109(4), the reference to “ their local transport plan ” is a
reference to the local transport plan prepared under section 108(3) in
accordance with the functions conferred on the Combined Authority by paragraph
(1)(b).

#### Agreements between authorities and strategic highways companies

14

14.1

The following functions are exercisable by the Combined Authority in relation
to the Area—

14.1.a

the functions of the constituent councils specified in section 6 of the 1980
Act (powers to enter into agreements with the Minister or strategic highways
companies relating to the exercise of functions with respect to trunk roads
etc) ;

14.1.b

the functions of the constituent councils as local highway authorities
specified in section 8 of the 1980 Act (power to enter into agreements with
local highway authorities and strategic highways companies for the doing of
certain works) .

14.2

The functions mentioned in paragraph (1) are exercisable concurrently with the
constituent councils.

14.3

Any exercise of the functions conferred by paragraph (1) requires the consent
of each constituent council in whose area it is proposed that the functions
are to be exercised.

#### Civil enforcement of road traffic contraventions

15

15.1

The functions of the constituent councils as enforcement authorities specified
in the following enactments are exercisable by the Combined Authority in
relation to the Enforcement Area comprising the civil enforcement areas of the
constituent councils—

15.1.a

Part 6 (civil enforcement of road traffic contraventions) of, and paragraphs 9
and 10 of Schedule 8 (civil enforcement areas and enforcement authorities
outside Greater London) , to the TM Act;

15.1.b

the Civil Enforcement of Road Traffic Contraventions (Approved Devices,
Charging Guidelines and General Provisions) (England) Regulations 2022 ; and

15.1.c

the Civil Enforcement of Road Traffic Contraventions (Representation and
Appeals) Regulations 2022 .

15.2

The functions mentioned in paragraph (1) are exercisable by the Combined
Authority (in relation to the Enforcement Area) concurrently with each
constituent council (in relation to its civil enforcement area).

15.3

In this article—

15.3.a

“ civil enforcement area ” means an area designated as a civil enforcement
area under Schedule 8 to the TM Act (civil enforcement areas and enforcement
authorities) which falls within the Area;

15.3.b

“ Enforcement Area ” means the area comprising all of the civil enforcement
areas of the constituent councils; and

15.3.c

“ enforcement authority ” means an enforcement authority for the purposes of
Part 6 of the TM Act pursuant to paragraph 9(4) or 10(5) of Schedule 8 to that
Act.

15.4

Any exercise of the functions conferred by paragraph (1) requires the consent
of each constituent council in whose area it is proposed that the functions
are to be exercised.

#### Grants to bus service operators

16

16.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) to (4), the function of the Secretary of State set
out in section 154(1) (grants to bus service operators) of the 2000 Act is
exercisable by the Combined Authority in relation to the Area.

16.2

For the purpose of paragraph (1), section 154(1) of the 2000 Act has effect as
if the words “with the approval of the Treasury” were omitted.

16.3

Grants made by virtue of the functions conferred by paragraph (1) must be—

16.3.a

calculated in accordance with such method as may be provided by any
regulations made by the Secretary of State by virtue of section 154(2) of the
2000 Act; and

16.3.b

subject to sub-paragraph (a), of such amount and subject to such conditions
(including conditions requiring their repayment in specified circumstances) as
may be determined by the Secretary of State by virtue of section 154(3) of the
2000 Act and notified to the Combined Authority.

16.4

Grants must not be made by virtue of the function conferred by paragraph (1)
to the extent that eligible bus services operate outside the Area.

16.5

The function mentioned in paragraph (1) is exercisable concurrently with the
Secretary of State in relation to the Area.

16.6

In this article, “ eligible bus services ” has the meaning given by section
154(5) of the 2000 Act.

#### Traffic regulation

17

17.1

The functions of the constituent councils as local traffic authorities
specified in the following provisions of the 1984 Act are exercisable by the
Combined Authority in relation to the Area—

17.1.a

section 1 (traffic regulation orders outside Greater London) ;

17.1.b

section 2 (what a traffic regulation order may provide) ;

17.1.c

section 9 (experimental traffic orders) .

17.2

The functions specified in paragraph (1) are exercisable by the Combined
Authority concurrently with the constituent councils.

17.3

Part 1 of, and Schedule 9 to, the 1984 Act apply in relation to the exercise
by the Combined Authority of the functions specified in paragraph (1) as they
apply in relation to the exercise by the constituent councils as local traffic
authorities of those functions.

17.4

The 1996 Regulations apply in relation to orders made or proposed to be made
by the Combined Authority in exercise of the functions specified in paragraph
(1) as they apply in relation to orders made or proposed to be made by the
constituent councils in exercise of those functions.

17.5

For the purposes of paragraph (4), references in the 1996 Regulations to an
“order making authority” are to be read as including references to the
Combined Authority.

17.6

In this article—

17.6.a

“ the 1996 Regulations ” means the Local Authorities’ Traffic Orders
(Procedure) (England and Wales) Regulations 1996 ; and

17.6.b

“ local traffic authority ” has the meaning given by section 121A  of the 1984
Act.

17.7

Any exercise of the functions conferred by paragraph (1) requires the consent
of each constituent council in whose area it is proposed that the functions
are to be exercised.

#### Transport functions related to traffic signs and pedestrian crossings

18

18.1

The functions of the constituent councils as local traffic authorities
specified in the following provisions of the 1984 Act are exercisable by the
Combined Authority in relation to the Area—

18.1.a

section 23 (pedestrian crossings) ; and

18.1.b

section 65 (placing of traffic signs) .

18.2

The functions specified in paragraph (1) are exercisable by the Combined
Authority concurrently with the constituent councils.

18.3

In consequence of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of paragraph (1), the Combined
Authority, in the discharge of the functions conferred on it by those
provisions—

18.3.a

is to be treated as a highway authority for the purposes of sections 62 and
278 of the 1980 Act ; and

18.3.b

is to be treated as a local traffic authority for the roads in relation to
which the functions are exercised.

18.4

In this article, “ local traffic authority ” has the meaning given by section
121A of the 1984 Act.

18.5

Any exercise of the functions conferred by paragraph (1) requires the consent
of each constituent council in whose area it is proposed that the functions
are to be exercised.

#### Apparatus affected by highway, bridge or transport works

19

19.1

The functions of the constituent councils as highway authorities specified in
the following enactments are exercisable by the Combined Authority in relation
to the Area—

19.1.a

sections 83, 84 and 85 of the 1991 Act ; and

19.1.b

the 2000 Regulations.

19.2

The functions mentioned in paragraph (1) are exercisable by the Combined
Authority concurrently with the constituent councils.

19.3

The 2000 Regulations apply in relation to the sharing of costs of diversionary
works between the Combined Authority and undertakers as they apply in relation
to the sharing of costs of diversionary works between a constituent council
and undertakers.

19.4

For the purposes of paragraph (3), references in the 2000 Regulations to an
authority are to be read as including references to the Combined Authority.

19.5

In this article—

19.5.a

“ the 1991 Act ” means the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 ;

19.5.b

“ the 2000 Regulations ” means the Street Works (Sharing of Costs of Works)
(England) Regulations 2000 ;

19.5.c

“ diversionary works ” has the meaning given by regulation 2(1) of the 2000
Regulations; and

19.5.d

“ undertaker ” has the same meaning as in sections 48(4) and (5) (streets,
street works and undertakers) and 89(4) (public sewers, sewer authorities and
related matters) of the 1991 Act .

19.6

Any exercise of the functions conferred by paragraph (1) requires the consent
of each constituent council in whose area it is proposed that the functions
are to be exercised.

#### Permit schemes

20

20.1

The functions of the constituent councils as local highway authorities
specified in the following provisions of the TM Act are exercisable by the
Combined Authority in relation to the Area—

20.1.a

section 33 (preparation of permit schemes) ;

20.1.b

section 33A (implementation of permit schemes of strategic highways companies
and local highway authorities in England) ; and

20.1.c

section 36 (variation and revocation of permit schemes) .

20.2

The functions of the constituent councils as Permit Authorities specified in
the 2007 Regulations are exercisable by the Combined Authority in relation to
the Area.

20.3

The functions mentioned in paragraph (1) and (2) are exercisable by the
Combined Authority concurrently with the constituent councils.

20.4

Part 3 of the TM Act (permit schemes) applies in relation to the preparation,
implementation, variation and revocation of permit schemes by the Combined
Authority as it applies in relation to the preparation, implementation,
variation and revocation of permit schemes by a constituent council as a local
highway authority, subject to the modifications in Schedule 4 to this Order.

20.5

The 2007 Regulations apply in relation to the content, preparation, operation,
variation and revocation of permit schemes by the Combined Authority as they
apply in relation to the content, preparation, operation, variation and
revocation of permit schemes by a constituent council as a Permit Authority.

20.6

For the purposes of paragraph (5), references in the 2007 Regulations to a
Permit Authority are to be read as including references to the Combined
Authority.

20.7

In this article—

20.7.a

“ Permit Authority ” has the same meaning as in regulation 2(1) of the 2007
Regulations;

20.7.b

“ permit scheme ” is to be construed in accordance with section 32 of the TM
Act; and

20.7.c

“ the 2007 Regulations ” means the Traffic Management Permit Scheme (England)
Regulations 2007 .

20.8

Any exercise of the functions conferred by paragraphs (1) and (2) requires the
consent of each constituent council in whose area it is proposed that the
functions are to be exercised.

#### Lane rental schemes

21

21.1

The functions of the constituent councils approved as Approved Authorities
that are specified in the 2012 Regulations are exercisable by the Combined
Authority in relation to the Area.

21.2

The functions mentioned in paragraph (1) are exercisable by the Combined
Authority concurrently with the constituent council.

21.3

The 2012 Regulations apply in relation to the operation of lane rental schemes
by the Combined Authority as they apply in relation to the operation of lane
rental schemes by a constituent council that is an Approved Authority.

21.4

For the purposes of paragraph (3), references in the 2012 Regulations to an
Authorised Authority are to be read as including references to the Combined
Authority.

21.5

In this article—

21.5.a

“ Approved Authority ” has the same meaning as in regulation 2 of the 2012
Regulations;

21.5.b

“ lane rental scheme ” means a scheme whereby an undertaker executing street
works in a maintainable highway is required to pay to the highway authority a
charge determined by reference to the duration of the works; and

21.5.c

“ the 2012 Regulations ” means the Street Works Charges for Occupation of the
Highway (England) Regulations 2012 .

21.6

The Combined Authority may not exercise the functions conferred by paragraph
(1) unless —

21.6.a

all of the constituent councils are Approved Authorities; and

21.6.b

each constituent council in whose area it is proposed that the functions are
to be exercised has consented—

21.6.b.i

to the exercise of those functions; and

21.6.b.ii

to the exercise of the functions specified in article 20 (permit schemes)
pursuant to paragraph (8) of that article.

#### Power to pay grant

22

22.1

The functions of a Minister of the Crown specified in section 31 of the 2003
Act (power to pay grant) are functions of the Combined Authority that are
exercisable in relation to the Area.

22.2

The functions are exercisable by the Combined Authority concurrently with a
Minister of the Crown.

22.3

Paragraph (4) applies where, in exercising functions referred to in paragraph
(1) the Combined Authority determines an amount of grant to be paid towards
expenditure incurred or to be incurred by a constituent council in relation to
the exercise of its highway functions.

22.4

In determining that amount, the Combined Authority must have regard to the
desirability of ensuring that the constituent council in question has
sufficient funds to facilitate the effective discharge of those functions.

22.5

To comply with paragraph (4), the Combined Authority must take into account
any other sources of funding available to the constituent council in question
for expenditure incurred or to be incurred in relation to the exercise of its
highway functions.

22.6

For the purposes of the exercise by the Combined Authority of the functions
specified in paragraph (1), section 31 of the 2003 Act has effect as if—

22.6.a

in subsection (1)—

22.6.a.i

the reference to a “Minister of the Crown” were a reference to the Combined
Authority;

22.6.a.ii

the reference to a “local authority in England” were a reference to a
constituent council;

22.6.b

subsection (2) were omitted;

22.6.c

in subsections (3) and (4), the references to the person paying it (the grant)
were references to the Combined Authority;

22.6.d

subsection (6) were omitted.

22.7

In this article, “ highway functions ” means functions exercisable by a
constituent council (in whatever capacity) in relation to the highways for
which it is the highway authority.

#### Amendment of the Sub-national Transport Body (Transport for the North) Regulations 2018

23

23.1

The Sub-national Transport Body (Transport for the North) Regulations 2018
are amended in accordance with paragraph (2).

23.2

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation) in the definition of “constituent
authorities”—

23.2.a

omit “The Council of the City of York” and “North Yorkshire Council”; and

23.2.b

after “Westmorland and Furness Council ”, insert  “The York and North
Yorkshire Combined Authority” .

### Additional functions

#### Data sharing

24

24.1

The functions of the constituent councils specified in section 17A (sharing of
information) of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998  are exercisable by the
Combined Authority in relation to the Area.

24.2

The Combined Authority is a relevant authority for the purposes of section 115
(disclosure of information) of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 .

24.3

The functions referred to in paragraph (1) are exercisable concurrently with
the constituent councils.

#### Assessment of economic conditions

25

25.1

The function of the constituent councils specified in section 69 of the 2009
Act (duty to prepare an assessment of economic conditions) is exercisable by
the Combined Authority in relation to the Area.

25.2

The function referred to in paragraph (1) is exercisable concurrently with the
constituent councils.

25.3

Any requirement in any enactment for a constituent council to exercise that
function may be fulfilled by the exercise of that function by the Combined
Authority.

25.4

Section 69 of the 2009 Act applies to the Combined Authority as it applies to
a constituent council.

#### Incidental provisions

26

26.1

The following provisions of the Local Government Act 1972  have effect as if
the Combined Authority were a local authority for the purposes of those
provisions—

26.1.a

section 113 (the power to place staff at the disposal of other local
authorities);

26.1.b

section 142(2) (the power to arrange for publication of information etc
relating to the functions of the Combined Authority);

26.1.c

section 144 (the power to encourage visitors and provide conference and other
facilities);

26.1.d

section 145 (the power to provide and support cultural activities and
entertainments); and

26.1.e

section 222 (power to prosecute and defend legal proceedings).

26.2

The Combined Authority has the power to exercise any of the functions
described in subsection (1)(a) and (b) of section 88 of the Local Government
Act 1985  (research and collection of information) whether or not a scheme is
made under that section.

26.3

For the purposes of paragraph (2), paragraphs (a) and (b) of section 88(1) of
the Local Government Act 1985 have effect as if a reference to “that area”
were a reference to the Area.

26.4

Section 13 of the 1989 Act (voting rights of members of certain committees)
has effect as if—

26.4.a

in subsection (4) after paragraph (h) there were inserted—

26.4.a.i

subject to subsection (4A), a committee appointed by the York and North
Yorkshire Combined Authority.

;

26.4.b

after subsection (4) there were inserted—

26.4.b.4A

A person who is a member of a committee falling within paragraph (i) of
subsection (4) or a sub-committee appointed by such a committee shall for all
purposes be treated as a non-voting member of that committee or sub-committee
unless that person is a member of one of the constituent councils.

.

26.5

In Part 2 of Schedule 3 to the Local Government Pension Scheme Regulations
2013 , in the table insert at the end—

      An employee of the York and North Yorkshire Combined Authority
established by the York and North Yorkshire Combined Authority Order 2023
North Yorkshire Council

.

26.6

The functions of the constituent councils under section 1 of the 2011 Act, to
the extent that those functions are exercisable for the purpose of economic
development and regeneration, are exercisable by the Combined Authority in
relation to the Area.

26.7

The functions referred to in paragraph (6) are exercisable concurrently with
the constituent councils.

26.8

Any requirement in any enactment for a constituent council to exercise such a
function may be fulfilled by the exercise of that function by the Combined
Authority.

### Mayoral functions

#### Functions exercisable only by the Mayor

27

27.1

The functions of the Combined Authority specified in paragraph (2) are general
functions exercisable only by the Mayor.

27.2

The functions referred to in paragraph (1) are the functions of the Combined
Authority corresponding to the functions in the following enactments—

27.2.a

section 17(3) of the 1985 Act;

27.2.b

sections 108 (local transport plans), 109 (further provision about plans:
England), 112 (plans and strategies: supplementary) and 154(1) (grants to bus
service operators) of the 2000 Act;

27.2.c

section 31 (power to pay grant) of the 2003 Act;

27.2.d

section 9(2) of the 2008 Act;

27.2.e

in relation to the functions conferred by article 30 of this Order, the BRS
Act; and

27.2.f

sections 197, 199, 200, 202, 204, 214 to 217 and 219 to 221 of, and paragraphs
1 to 4, 6 and 8 of Schedule 21 to, the 2011 Act.

27.3

For the purposes of the exercise of the general functions  mentioned in
paragraph (2), the members and officers of the Combined Authority may assist
the Mayor in the exercise of the function.

27.4

For the purposes of the exercise of the functions mentioned in paragraph (2),
the Mayor may do anything that the Combined Authority may do under section
113A of the 2009 Act (general power of EPB or combined authority) .

27.5

The Mayor must not make arrangements under section 107D(3)(b) of the 2009 Act
(functions of mayors: general) in relation to the functions specified in
paragraph (2)(e), in relation to a political adviser appointed under article
5.

#### Joint committees

28

28.1

The Mayor may enter into arrangements jointly with the Combined Authority, the
constituent councils and other councils in accordance with section 101(5) of
the Local Government Act 1972  for the discharge of the general functions of
the Combined Authority which are exercisable only by the Mayor pursuant to
article 27.

28.2

In this article, “ other council ” means the council for a county or district
in England.

### Funding

#### Funding

29

29.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) to (6), the constituent councils must ensure that
the costs of the Combined Authority reasonably attributable to the exercise of
its functions are met.

29.2

Subject to paragraph (4), the constituent councils must meet the costs of the
expenditure reasonably incurred by the Mayor in, or in connection with, the
exercise of the functions referred to in article 27(1), to the extent that the
Mayor has not decided to meet these costs from other resources available to
the Combined Authority.

29.3

Any amount payable by each of the constituent councils to ensure that the
costs of the Combined Authority referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) are met
is to be determined by apportioning such costs between the constituent
councils in such proportions as they may agree or, in default of such
agreement, in accordance with the proportion of the total resident population
of the Combined Authority which resides in the area of each constituent
council at the relevant date as estimated by the Statistics Board .

29.4

In relation to the expenditure mentioned in paragraph (2)—

29.4.a

to the extent to which such expenditure is met by amounts payable under
paragraph (3)—

29.4.a.i

the Mayor must agree with the Combined Authority the total expenditure
mentioned in paragraph (2) in advance of incurring such expenditure; and

29.4.a.ii

in the absence of the agreement specified in paragraph (i), no such
expenditure may be incurred; and

29.4.b

any precept issued in relation to such expenditure under section 40 of the
Local Government Finance Act 1992  is to be disregarded from any calculation
of the costs of the expenditure.

29.5

The costs of the Combined Authority reasonably attributable to the exercise of
its functions relating to transport must be met by means of a levy issued by
the Combined Authority to the constituent councils under section 74 of the
Local Government Finance Act 1988 and in accordance with the Transport Levying
Bodies Regulations 1992 .

29.6

For the financial year commencing on 1st April 2024, the costs incurred by the
Mayor in the exercise of the functions referred to in Part 9 must be met by
the precept issued by the police and crime commissioner under section 40 of
the Local Government Finance Act 1992 for that financial year.

29.7

For the purposes of paragraph (3), the “ relevant date ” in relation to a
payment for a financial year is 30 June in the financial year which commenced
two years prior to the financial year in which such payment is to be made.

#### Conferral of Business Rate Supplements functions

30

30.1

The Combined Authority has, in relation to the Area, functions corresponding
to the functions conferred on the Greater London Authority in relation to
Greater London by the BRS Act.

30.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply in relation to the function conferred by section
3(5) of the BRS Act.

#### Adaptation of BRS in consequence of article 30

31

For the purposes of article 30, the BRS Act applies to the Combined Authority
as if—

31.a

references to the Greater London Authority in section 2(1) (levying
authorities) and in section 5(2) (prospectus) of the BRS Act included
references to the Combined Authority; and

31.b

references in that Act to a lower-tier authority were, in relation to the
Combined Authority, references to a district council whose area forms part of
the Area.

### Police and crime commissioner functions

#### Police and crime commissioner functions

32

32.1

The Mayor is to exercise functions of a police and crime commissioner in
relation to the Area.

32.2

There is to be no police and crime commissioner for the Area from 7th May
2024.

32.3

Any election of a police and crime commissioner for the Area that would
otherwise take place (whether before, on or after 7th May 2024) by virtue of
section 50(1)(b) of the PRSR Act (ordinary elections)  is not to take place.

32.4

The term of office of the police and crime commissioner for North Yorkshire is
to continue until 7th May 2024.

32.5

Any election to fill a vacancy in the office of police and crime commissioner
for North Yorkshire which would otherwise take place under section 51 of the
PRSR Act (election to fill vacancy in office of commissioner)  is not to take
place if the vacancy occurs within the period starting on the day on which
this article comes into force and ending on 2nd May 2024.

#### Transfer of police and crime commissioner functions

33

33.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the Mayor is to be treated, in relation to
the Mayor’s PCC functions , as a police and crime commissioner for the
purposes of all police and crime commissioner enactments, whenever passed or
made .

33.2

In their application to the Mayor, the police and crime commissioner
enactments set out in Schedule 5 apply with the modifications set out in that
Schedule.

33.3

Paragraph (1) does not apply to the enactments set out in Schedule 6.

#### Transfer of property, rights and liabilities

34

34.1

All property, rights and liabilities, including rights and liabilities in
relation to contracts of employment, which immediately before 7th May 2024
were property, rights and liabilities of the police and crime commissioner for
North Yorkshire are to transfer to, and by virtue of this paragraph vest in,
the Combined Authority on 7th May 2024.

34.2

In relation to the property rights and liabilities transferred by paragraph
(1) and any property, rights and liabilities acquired in relation to the
Mayor’s PCC functions on or after 7th May 2024—

34.2.a

all functions in relation to such property, rights and liabilities are to be
exercised by the Mayor;

34.2.b

all decisions relating to such property, rights and liabilities are to be made
by the Mayor;

34.2.c

any receipts arising from such property, rights and liabilities, whether
arising from their use, sale, disposal or otherwise, are to be paid into the
police fund kept by the Mayor by virtue of section 21 of the PRSR Act (police
fund).

34.3

All monies held in the police fund kept by the police and crime commissioner
for North Yorkshire under section 21 of the PRSR Act immediately before 7th
May 2024 are, on that date, to transfer to the police fund kept by the Mayor
by virtue of that section, as applied in accordance with article 33.

34.4

Nothing in paragraph (2) prevents the Mayor from making arrangements under
section 18 of the PRSR Act (delegation of functions by police and crime
commissioners) , as applied in accordance with article 33 in relation to the
matters mentioned in paragraph (2).

#### Secondments

35

In the case of a person who immediately before 7th May 2024 is seconded to the
police and crime commissioner for North Yorkshire, the secondment is to have
effect, beginning on that date as a secondment to the Combined Authority.

#### Continuity

36

36.1

The abolition of the police and crime commissioner for North Yorkshire, the
transfer or abolition of the commissioner’s functions and the transfer of the
commissioner’s property, rights and liabilities do not affect the validity of
anything done before the abolition or transfer.

36.2

Paragraphs (3) to (5) apply where any functions, property, rights or
liabilities are transferred by or under this Part from the police and crime
commissioner for North Yorkshire to the Combined Authority.

36.3

There may be continued by or in relation to the Combined Authority anything
(including legal proceedings) which—

36.3.a

relates to any of the functions, property, rights or liabilities transferred;
and

36.3.b

is in the process of being done by or in relation to the police and crime
commissioner for North Yorkshire immediately before 7th May 2024.

36.4

Anything which—

36.4.a

was made or done by or in relation to the police and crime commissioner for
North Yorkshire for the purposes of, or otherwise in connection with, any of
the functions, property, rights or liabilities transferred; and

36.4.b

is in effect immediately before 7th May 2023,

has effect as if made or done by or in relation to the Combined Authority.

36.5

The Combined Authority is to be substituted for the police and crime
commissioner for North Yorkshire in any instrument, contract or legal
proceedings which—

36.5.a

relates to any of the functions, property, rights or liabilities transferred;
and

36.5.b

is made or commenced before 7th May 2024.

36.6

In this article a reference to the transfer of a function includes a reference
to the abolition of a function and the conferral of a corresponding function
on another person.

#### Foreign property etc, perfection of vesting

37

37.1

Subsections (2) to (8) of section 414 of the 1999 Act (foreign property,
rights and liabilities: perfection of vesting)  apply to the transfer by or
under this Part of any foreign property, rights or liabilities.

37.2

In the application of those provisions by virtue of paragraph (1)—

37.2.a

references to a transfer or pension instrument have effect as references to
the transfer by or under this Part; and

37.2.b

references to the transferor and transferee are to be construed accordingly.

#### Transfers: supplementary provision

38

38.1

All property, rights and liabilities transferred by this Part are to be
transferred, notwithstanding that they may be or include—

38.1.a

property, rights and liabilities that would not otherwise be capable of being
transferred; or

38.1.b

rights and liabilities under enactments.

38.2

No right of reverter, right of pre-emption, right of forfeiture, right of re-
entry, right to compensation, option or similar right affecting any land or
other property is to operate or become exercisable as a result of any transfer
of land or other property by virtue of this Part, whether or not any consent
required to the transfer has been obtained.

38.3

No right to terminate or vary a contract or instrument is to operate or become
exercisable, and no provision of a contract or relevant document is to operate
or become exercisable or be contravened, by reason of the transfer made by
this Part.

38.4

Paragraphs (1) to (3) have effect in relation to—

38.4.a

the grant or creation of an estate or interest in, or right over, any land or
other property; or

38.4.b

the doing of any other thing in relation to land or other property,

as they have effect in relation to the transfer made by this Part of land or
other property.

38.5

In paragraph (3), “ relevant document ” means—

38.5.a

any enactment, other than an enactment contained in the 2009 Act;

38.5.b

any subordinate legislation made otherwise than under that Act; or

38.5.c

any deed or other instrument.

#### Extension of financial year of Police and Crime Commissioner and Chief Constable for North Yorkshire

39

39.1

The following requirements are modified in the case of the police and crime
commissioner for North Yorkshire and the chief constable for the financial
year which began on 1st April 2023.

39.2

The requirement in section 3(3) of the Local Audit and Accountability Act 2014
(general requirements for accounts)  to prepare a statement of accounts for
each financial year ending with 31st March is modified so that the period ends
with 6th May 2024.

39.3

The requirement in regulation 15(1)(a) of the Accounts and Audit Regulations
2015 (commencement of the period for the exercise of public rights)  is
modified so that the relevant responsible financial officer must ensure that
the commencement of the period for the exercise of public rights takes place
on such a day that ensures that the period referred to in regulation 14(1) of
those Regulations (period for the exercise of public rights) begins on 18th
June 2024.

39.4

In this article—

      “ the chief constable ” means the chief constable of the police force
for North Yorkshire;           “the relevant responsible financial officer”
means—         in relation to the police and crime commissioner, the
responsible financial officer for the Combined Authority; and           in
relation to the chief constable, the responsible financial officer for the
police force for North Yorkshire.

#### Modification to the Local Government Act 1972

40

40.1

Section 86 of the Local Government Act 1972 (declaration by local authority of
vacancy in office in certain cases)  applies in relation to the Mayor with the
following modification.

40.2

After section 86(1)(c), insert—

or

40.2.d

ceases to be the Mayor by virtue of section 63 (vacancy where acting
commissioner acts for 6 months) of the Police Reform and Social Responsibility
Act 2011,

.

### Fire and rescue functions

#### Transfer of functions of the North Yorkshire Police, Fire and Crime Commissioner Fire and Rescue Authority

41

41.1

The functions of the FRA that are exercisable in relation to the Area are to
be functions of the Combined Authority.

41.2

The Combined Authority is the fire and rescue authority for the Area for the
purposes of the 2004 Act.

41.3

The FRA is abolished.

#### General functions of the Combined Authority exercisable only by the Mayor

42

42.1

The fire and rescue functions of the Combined Authority are exercisable only
by the Mayor.

42.2

For the purposes of the exercise of the fire and rescue functions, the Mayor
may do anything that the Combined Authority may do under section 113A of the
2009 Act (general power of EPB or combined authority).

42.3

Members and officers of the Combined Authority may assist the Mayor in the
exercise of the fire and rescue functions.

#### Arrangements for exercise of fire and rescue functions

43

43.1

The Mayor may not make arrangements under section 107D(3) of the 2009 Act
(functions of mayors: general) that authorise the exercise of any of the fire
and rescue functions to which article 45 applies.

43.2

The Mayor may arrange under section 107D(3) of the 2009 Act for the exercise
of fire and rescue functions, other than any of the functions to which article
45 applies, by—

43.2.a

the deputy mayor for policing and crime; or

43.2.b

a committee of the Combined Authority.

43.3

The Mayor may not make arrangements described in paragraph (2)(a), and
arrangements described in paragraph (2)(b), to have effect concurrently.

43.4

Where the Mayor makes arrangements described in paragraph (2)(a), the deputy
mayor for policing and crime may, for the purpose of the exercise of fire and
rescue functions, do anything that the Combined Authority may do under section
113A of the 2009 Act.

43.5

Where the Mayor makes arrangements described in paragraph (2)(b), the
committee is to be known as the fire committee.

#### Members of fire committee

44

44.1

The Mayor is to appoint one member of the fire committee on the nomination of
each constituent council.

44.2

The constituent council is to nominate a person to be a member of the fire
committee from amongst that council’s constituent members.

44.3

Where the Mayor decides not to appoint a person under paragraph (1) who has
been nominated by a constituent council, that council may nominate a further
person from that council’s elected members.

44.4

The Mayor may appoint a maximum of five further members of the fire committee
from the elected members of one or more of the constituent councils.

44.5

The Mayor and the constituent councils must, when appointing or nominating
members to the fire committee, ensure that the members of the fire committee
taken as a whole reflect so far as reasonably practicable the balance of the
political parties for the time being prevailing among the constituent councils
when taken together.

44.6

The Mayor must appoint one of the members of the fire committee to serve as
the chair of the committee.

44.7

A member of the fire committee ceases to be a member of that committee if that
person ceases to be a member of the constituent council of which that person
had been a member at the time of their appointment to the Committee.

44.8

A member of the fire committee may resign as a member of the fire committee by
written notice served on the proper officer of the constituent council which
that person had been a member of at the time of their appointment to the
committee and the resignation is to take effect on receipt of the notice by
the proper officer.

44.9

The Mayor may at any time terminate the appointment of a member of the fire
committee who has not attended a meeting of the fire committee during a period
of six consecutive months beginning with the date of that member’s last
attendance.

44.10

Where a person ceases to be a member of the fire committee by virtue of
paragraph (7), (8) or (9)—

44.10.a

where paragraph (1) applied to that person, the constituent council that
nominated the member must as soon as practicable give written notice to the
Mayor and nominate another person from that council’s elected members;

44.10.b

the Mayor must appoint another person to be a member of the fire committee.

44.11

Where an elected member of the constituent council is appointed by the Mayor
to be a member of the fire committee, that constituent council may, in
accordance with its own scheme of allowances, pay a special responsibility
allowance to that member and also a travelling and subsistence allowance.

44.12

In this article—

      “ special responsibility allowance ” and “ travelling subsistence
allowance ” have the same meaning as in the Local Authorities (Members’
Allowances) (England) Regulations 2003 .

#### Fire and rescue functions excluded from the power to make arrangements

45

45.1

This article applies to the following fire and rescue functions—

45.1.a

functions under the following provisions of the 2004 Act—

45.1.a.i

section 13 (reinforcement schemes);

45.1.a.ii

section 15 (arrangements with other employers of fire-fighters);

45.1.a.iii

section 16 (arrangements for discharge of functions by others);

45.1.b

the functions of—

45.1.b.i

appointing, suspending or dismissing the chief fire officer;

45.1.b.ii

approving the terms of appointment of the chief fire officer;

45.1.b.iii

holding the chief fire officer to account for managing the fire and rescue
service;

45.1.c

approving—

45.1.c.i

the community risk management plan;

45.1.c.ii

the fire and rescue declaration;

45.1.d

approving plans, modifications to plans and additions to plans for the purpose
of ensuring that—

45.1.d.i

as far as reasonably practicable, the Combined Authority is able to perform
its fire and rescue functions if an emergency occurs, and

45.1.d.ii

the Combined Authority is able to perform its functions so far as is necessary
or desirable for the purpose of preventing an emergency or reducing,
controlling or mitigating the effects of an emergency, or taking other action
in connection with it;

45.1.e

approving any arrangements for the co-operation of the Combined Authority in
relation to its fire and rescue functions with other Category 1 responders and
Category 2 responders in respect of—

45.1.e.i

the performance of the Combined Authority’s duty as a fire and rescue
authority under section 2 of the Civil Contingencies Act 2004 (duty to assess,
plan and advise);

45.1.e.ii

any duties under subordinate legislation made in exercise of powers under that
Act.

45.2

In paragraph (1)(d) “ emergency ” has the meaning given in section 1 of the
Civil Contingencies Act 2004 (meaning of “ emergency ”) .

45.3

In paragraph (1)(e) “Category 1 responder” and “Category 2 responder” have the
meanings given in section 3 of the Civil Contingencies Act 2004 (section 2:
supplemental) .

#### Police, Fire and Crime Panel: oversight functions in relation to fire and rescue functions

46

46.1

The Police, Fire and Crime Panel has the oversight functions set out in
articles 47 to 49, and by virtue of Schedule 7, in relation to—

46.1.a

any fire and rescue functions of the Mayor that are exercisable by the deputy
mayor for policing and crime as a result of arrangements described in article
43(2)(a); and

46.1.b

fire and rescue functions exercisable by the Mayor.

46.2

The modifications of enactments set out in Schedule 7 have effect for the
purpose of the application of those enactments to the Combined Authority as a
fire and rescue authority.

#### Police, Fire and Crime Panel: scrutiny of the community risk management plan

47

47.1

Before issuing a community risk management plan or varying the Combined
Authority’s priorities and objectives set out in a community risk management
plan, the Mayor must—

47.1.a

consult the chief fire officer in preparing the draft plan, or the draft
variation;

47.1.b

send the draft priorities and objectives, or the draft variation of the
priorities and objectives, to the Police, Fire and Crime Panel;

47.1.c

have regard to any report or recommendations made by the Police, Fire and
Crime Panel in relation to the draft priorities and objectives, in accordance
with section 28(3) of the PRSR Act; and

47.1.d

as soon as reasonably practicable, give the Police, Fire and Crime Panel a
response to any such report or recommendations, and publish the response in
such manner as the Mayor considers appropriate.

47.2

In complying with paragraph (1)(b), the Mayor must ensure that the Police,
Fire and Crime Panel has a reasonable amount of time to consider the draft
priorities and objectives, or the draft variation of the priorities and
objectives, and to produce its report or recommendations.

47.3

The Mayor must consult the chief fire officer before issuing or varying a
community risk management plan if, and to the extent that, the priorities and
objectives in the plan or variation are different from the draft prepared in
accordance with paragraph (1).

47.4

The Mayor must keep the priorities and objectives in the community risk
management plan under review and, in particular, review them in the light of
any report or recommendations made to the Mayor by the Police, Fire and Crime
Panel under section 28(4) of the PRSR Act.

47.5

If the Mayor issues or varies a community risk management plan, the Mayor
must—

47.5.a

send a copy of the issued community risk management plan, or the variation, to
the chief fire officer; and

47.5.b

publish a copy of the issued plan, or the variation, in such manner as the
Mayor considers appropriate.

47.6

The duty under paragraph (5) to send or publish a copy of the variation may
instead be satisfied by sending or publishing a copy of the plan as varied.

47.7

In this article, “ priorities and objectives ” means the Combined Authority’s
priorities and objectives in connection with the discharge of the Combined
Authority’s functions as a fire and rescue authority, as required to be set
out in the community risk management plan.

#### Notification of proposed allocation of budget for fire and rescue functions

48

48.1

The Mayor must, in each financial year, notify the Police, Fire and Crime
Panel of the Mayor’s proposed allocation of the draft budget for fire and
rescue functions, including the proposed allocation of the element of the
general precept attributable to fire and rescue functions, in relation to the
following financial year.

48.2

The notification described in paragraph (1) must be given—

48.2.a

before the date on which the Combined Authority determines whether to approve
the Mayor’s annual budget in relation to the following financial year; and

48.2.b

at a time which permits the Police, Fire and Crime Panel a reasonable amount
of time to review the proposed allocation of budget before the Combined
Authority makes its determination.

#### Police, Fire and Crime Panel review of proposed budget

49

49.1

The Police, Fire and Crime Panel must review any proposed allocation of budget
notified to it under article 48.

49.2

The Police, Fire and Crime Panel must make a report to the Mayor in relation
to the proposed allocation of budget.

49.3

The Mayor must—

49.3.a

have regard to any report made under paragraph (2) and to any recommendations
made in it;

49.3.b

provide the Police, Fire and Crime Panel with a response to the report and any
recommendations made in it;

49.3.c

notify the Police, Fire and Crime Panel of any material changes to the budget
for fire and rescue functions after it has been finalised; and

49.3.d

publish the response mentioned in sub-paragraph (b), and any notification
under sub-paragraph (c)—

49.3.d.i

in such manner as is required by the Police, Fire and Crime Panel; and

49.3.d.ii

in any event, in a prominent place on the website of the Combined Authority.

#### Transitional arrangements and asset transfers

##### Transfer of property, rights and liabilities

50

50.1

All property, rights and liabilities, including rights and liabilities in
relation to contracts of employment, which immediately before 7th May 2024
were property, rights and liabilities of the FRA are to transfer to, and by
virtue of this paragraph vest in, the Combined Authority on 6 May 2024.

50.2

In relation to the property, rights and liabilities transferred by paragraph
(1) and any property, rights and liabilities acquired in relation to the
Combined Authority’s fire and rescue functions on or after 7th May 2024—

50.2.a

all functions in relation to such property, rights and liabilities are to be
exercised by the Mayor;

50.2.b

all decisions relating to such property, rights and liabilities are to be made
by the Mayor.

50.3

Subject to article 45 nothing in paragraph (2) prevents the Mayor from making
arrangements under section 107D(3) of the 2009 Act in relation to the matters
mentioned in paragraph (2).

##### Secondments

51

In the case of a person who, immediately before 7th May 2024 is seconded to
the FRA, the secondment is to have effect, beginning on 7th May, as a
secondment to the Combined Authority.

##### Continuity

52

52.1

The abolition of the FRA, the transfer or abolition of the FRA’s functions and
the transfer of the FRA’s property, rights and liabilities do not affect the
validity of anything done before the abolition or transfer.

52.2

Paragraphs (3) to (5) apply where any functions, property, rights or
liabilities are transferred by or under this Part from the FRA to the Combined
Authority.

52.3

There may be continued by or in relation to the Combined Authority anything,
including legal proceedings, which—

52.3.a

relates to any of the functions, property or rights transferred; and

52.3.b

is in the process of being done by or in relation to the FRA immediately
before 7th May 2024.

52.4

There has effect as if made or done by or in relation to the Combined
Authority—

52.4.a

anything which was made or done by or in relation to the FRA for the purposes
of, or otherwise in connection with, any of the functions, property, rights or
liabilities transferred; and

52.4.b

is in effect immediately before 7th May 2024.

52.5

The Combined Authority is to be substituted for the FRA in any instruments,
contracts or legal proceedings which—

52.5.a

relate to any of the functions, property, rights or liabilities transferred;
and

52.5.b

are made or commenced before 7th May 2024.

52.6

In this article, a reference to the transfer of a function includes a
reference to the abolition of a function and the conferral of a corresponding
function on another person.

##### Transfers: supplementary provision

53

53.1

All property, rights and liabilities transferred by this Part are to be
transferred, notwithstanding that they may be or include—

53.1.a

property, rights and liabilities that would not otherwise be capable of being
transferred; or

53.1.b

rights and liabilities under enactments.

53.2

No right of reverter, right of pre-emption, right of forfeiture, right of re-
entry, right to compensation, option or similar right affecting any land or
other property is to operate or become exercisable as a result of any transfer
of land or other property by virtue of this Part, whether or not any consent
required to the transfer has been obtained.

53.3

No right to terminate or vary a contract or instrument is to operate or become
exercisable, and no provision of a contract or relevant document is to operate
or become exercisable or be contravened, by reason of the transfer made by
this Part.

53.4

Paragraphs (1) to (3) have effect in relation to—

53.4.a

the grant or creation of an estate or interest in, or right over, any land or
other property; or

53.4.b

the doing of any other thing in relation to land or other property,

as they have effect in relation to the transfer made by this Part of land or
other property.

53.5

In paragraph (3), “ relevant document ” means—

53.5.a

any enactment, other than an enactment contained in the 2009 Act;

53.5.b

any subordinate legislation made otherwise than under that Act, or

53.5.c

any deed or other instrument.

##### Extension of financial year of fire and rescue authority

54

54.1

The following requirements are modified in the case of the FRA for the
financial year which began on 1st April 2023.

54.2

The requirement in section 3(3) of the Local Audit and Accountability Act 2014
(general requirements for accounts)  to prepare a statement of accounts for
each financial year ending on 31st March is modified so that the period ends
with 6th May 2024.

54.3

The requirement in regulation 15(1)(a) of the Accounts and Audit Regulations
2015 (commencement of the period for the exercise of public rights)  is
modified so that the responsible financial officer must ensure that the
commencement of the period for the exercise of public rights takes place on
such a day that ensures that the period referred to in regulation 14(1) of
those Regulations (period for the exercise of public rights) begins on 18th
June 2024.

54.4

In this article, “ responsible financial officer ” has the meaning given in
regulation 2(2) of the Accounts and Audit Regulations 2015.

##### Revocation

55

The Police, Fire and Crime Commissioner for North Yorkshire (Fire and Rescue
Authority) Order 2018  is revoked.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing
and Communities       Jacob Young   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State
Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities     19th December 2023

## SCHEDULES

Constitution

Article 6

##### Membership

1

1.1

Each constituent council must appoint two of its elected members to be members
of the Combined Authority

1.2

Each constituent council must designate one of the members appointed under
sub-paragraph (1) as the lead member.

1.3

Each constituent council must appoint two named elected members for each
member appointed under sub-paragraph (1), either of whom may act as a member
of the Combined Authority in the absence of a member appointed under sub-
paragraph (1) (“the substitute members”).

1.4

In this Schedule, “ members ” means a lead member, a non-lead member appointed
under sub-paragraph (1) and a substitute member unless the context provides
otherwise.

1.5

A person ceases to be a member of the Combined Authority if they cease to be a
member of the constituent council that appointed them.

1.6

A person may resign as a member of the Combined Authority by written notice
served on the proper officer of the constituent council that appointed them
and the resignation takes effect on receipt of that notice.

1.7

Where a member of the Combined Authority’s appointment ceases by virtue of
sub-paragraph (5) or (6), the constituent council that made the appointment
must, as soon as practicable, give written notice of that fact to the Combined
Authority and appoint another of its elected members in that person’s place.

##### Chair and vice-chair

2

2.1

The Combined Authority must appoint a chair from amongst its constituent
council members and the appointment is to be the first business transacted
after the appointment of members of the Combined Authority, at the first
meeting of the Combined Authority.

2.2

A person ceases to be chair of the Combined Authority if they cease to be a
member of the Combined Authority.

2.3

If a vacancy arises in the office of chair, an appointment to fill the vacancy
is to be made at the next ordinary meeting of the Combined Authority or, if
that meeting is to be held within 14 days of the vacancy arising, at the
meeting following that meeting.

2.4

The chair of the Combined Authority ceases to hold office at the end of the
day before the first Mayor’s term of office begins .

3

3.1

The Combined Authority must appoint a vice-chair from amongst its constituent
council members and the appointment is to be the first business transacted
after the appointment of members and the chair of the Combined Authority, at
the first meeting of the Combined Authority.

3.2

A person ceases to be vice-chair of the Combined Authority if they cease to be
a member of the Combined Authority.

3.3

If a vacancy arises in the office of vice-chair, an appointment to fill the
vacancy is to be made at the next ordinary meeting of the Combined Authority
or, if that meeting is to be held within 14 days of the vacancy arising, at
the meeting following that meeting.

3.4

The office of vice-chair is abolished at the end of the day before the first
mayor’s term of office begins.

##### Proceedings

4

4.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (6) to (14), any decision of the Combined Authority
is to be decided by a simple majority of the members present and voting on
that question at a meeting of the Combined Authority, and such majority is to
include the Mayor, or the Deputy Mayor acting in place of the Mayor or, in the
period before the first day of the first mayor’s term of office, the chair or,
in the absence of the chair, the vice-chair.

4.2

Before the first Mayor’s term of office begins, no business is to be
transacted at a meeting of the Combined Authority unless the chair and at
least one member appointed by each constituent council is present.

4.3

After the Mayor’s term of office begins, no business is to be transacted at a
meeting of the Combined Authority unless the Mayor (or the Deputy Mayor acting
in place of the Mayor) and at least one member appointed by each constituent
council is present.

4.4

Each member is to have one vote and no member is to have a casting vote.

4.5

If a vote is tied on any matter it is deemed not to have been carried.

4.6

The following decisions of the Combined Authority require (in addition to the
requirements of sub-paragraph (1)) those voting in favour to include the lead
member from each constituent council—

4.6.a

approval or amendment of the Combined Authority’s budget (excluding approval
or amendment of the Mayor’s budget);

4.6.b

issuing the levy pursuant to article 29(5) (transport levy); and

4.6.c

approval or amendment of the Combined Authority’s constitution or standing
orders.

4.7

The exercise of the function in section 17 of the 1985 Act (insofar as that
function is exercised for the compulsory purchase of land), section 9(2) of
the 2008 Act and section 226 of the 1990 Act by the Combined Authority
requires the consent of—

4.7.a

the lead member for the constituent councils whose area contains any part of
the land subject to the proposed compulsory acquisition, or

4.7.b

a substitute member acting in place of such a member,

4.8

Article 8(4) of the Combined Authorities (Finance) Order 2017  applies in
relation to decisions of the Combined Authority referred to in that paragraph
as if the reference to a two thirds majority were a reference to a three
quarters majority.

4.9

Any decision of the Combined Authority to amend the Mayor’s transport plan
requires at least three of the members to vote in favour of the amendment.

4.10

Any decision of the Mayor which gives rise to a financial liability for a
constituent council requires the consent of the lead member appointed by that
constituent council.

4.11

Any exercise by the Mayor of the functions corresponding to the functions
contained in section 197(1) (designation of Mayoral development areas) of the
2011 Act requires the consent of—

4.11.a

the lead member for any constituent council whose local government area
contains any part of the land to be designated as a Mayoral development area
or substitute member acting in place of that member; and

4.11.b

the North York Moors National Park Authority or the Yorkshire Dales National
Park Authority if the Combined Authority proposes to exercise the function in
respect of the whole or any part of the area of the relevant National Park
Authority.

4.12

Any exercise by the Mayor of the functions corresponding to the functions
contained in section 199(1) (exclusion of land from Mayoral development areas)
of the 2011 Act in respect of any Mayoral development area requires the
consent of the lead member for any constituent council whose local government
area contains any part of the area to be excluded from a Mayoral development
area or substitute member acting in place of that member.

4.13

Any exercise by the Mayor of the functions corresponding to the functions
contained in section 202(2) to (4) of the 2011 Act (functions in relation to
town and country planning) in respect of any Mayoral development area requires
the consent of—

4.13.a

the lead member for any constituent council whose local government area
contains any part of the area to be designated as a Mayoral development area
or a substitute member acting in place of that member; and

4.13.b

the North York Moors National Park Authority or the Yorkshire Dales National
Park Authority if the Combined Authority proposes to exercise the function in
respect of the whole or any part of the area of the relevant National Park
Authority.

4.14

Any exercise by the Mayor of the functions corresponding to the functions
contained in section 17(3) of the 1985 Act (acquisition of land for housing
purposes) and section 9(2) of the 2008 Act (acquisition of land) requires the
consent of the lead member for any constituent council whose local government
area contains any part of the land subject to the proposed compulsory
acquisition or a substitute member acting in place of that member.

4.15

For the purpose of sub-paragraphs (7), (11)(a), (12), (13)(a) and (14) the
consent must be given at a meeting of the combined authority.

##### Remuneration

5

Subject to paragraphs 6 and 7, no remuneration is to be payable by the
Combined Authority to its members, other than allowances for travel and
subsistence paid in accordance with a scheme approved by the Combined
Authority.

6

6.1

The Combined Authority may establish an independent remuneration panel to
recommend a scheme to the Combined Authority regarding the allowances payable
to—

6.1.a

the Mayor;

6.1.b

the Deputy Mayor provided that the Deputy Mayor is not a leader or elected
mayor of a constituent council or the Chair of the Local Enterprise
Partnership;

6.1.c

the deputy mayor for policing and crime provided that the deputy mayor for
policing and crime is not a leader or elected mayor of a constituent council;
and

6.1.d

independent persons.

6.2

An independent remuneration panel must consist of at least three members none
of whom may be—

6.2.a

a member of the Combined Authority or a member of a committee or sub-committee
of the Combined Authority or a member of a constituent council; or

6.2.b

disqualified from being or becoming a member of the Combined Authority.

6.3

The Combined Authority may pay the expenses incurred by the independent
remuneration panel established under sub-paragraph (1) in carrying out its
functions and may pay the members of the panel such allowances or expenses as
the Combined Authority may determine.

7

The Combined Authority may only pay an allowance to the people listed in
paragraph 6(1)(a) to (c) if the Combined Authority has—

7.a

considered a report published by the independent remuneration panel
established under paragraph 6(1) which contains recommendations for such an
allowance; and

7.b

approved a scheme for the payment of the allowance providing that scheme does
not provide for the payment of allowances of an amount in excess of the amount
recommended by the independent remuneration panel.

##### Records

8

8.1

The Combined Authority must make arrangements for the names of members present
at any meeting to be recorded.

8.2

Minutes of the proceedings of a meeting of the Combined Authority, or any
committee or sub-committee of the Combined Authority, are to be kept in such
form as the Combined Authority may determine.

8.3

Any such minutes are to be signed at the same or next suitable meeting of the
Combined Authority, committee or sub-committee as the case may be, by the
person presiding at that meeting.

8.4

Any minute purporting to be signed as mentioned in sub-paragraph (3) is to be
received in evidence without further proof.

8.5

Unless the contrary is proved, a meeting of the Combined Authority, committee
or sub-committee, a minute of whose proceedings has been signed in accordance
with this paragraph, is deemed to have been duly convened and held, and all
the members present at the meeting are deemed to have been duly qualified to
attend.

8.6

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3), the next suitable meeting is the next
following meeting or, where standing orders made by the Combined Authority
provide for another meeting of the Authority, committee or sub-committee to be
regarded as suitable, either the next following meeting or that other meeting.

##### Standing orders

9

The Combined Authority may make standing orders for the regulation of its
proceedings and business and may vary or revoke any such orders.

Article 9

##### Modification of the application of Part 1 of the 2008 Act

1

1.1

Chapters 1 and 2 of Part 1 of the 2008 Act apply in relation to the Combined
Authority as modified in accordance with the following provisions.

1.2

Sections 5 (powers to provide housing or other land), 6 (powers for
regeneration, development or effective use of land), 7 (powers in relation to
infrastructure), 8 (powers to deal with land etc), 9 (acquisition of land), 10
(restrictions on disposal of land) and 11 (main powers in relation to acquired
land) of, and Schedules 2 to 4 to, the 2008 Act, have effect as if for each
reference to—

1.2.a

“the HCA” there were substituted a reference to “the Combined Authority”;

1.2.b

“Part 1” of that Act there were substituted a reference to “Part 3 of the York
and North Yorkshire Combined Authority Order 2023”; and

1.2.c

“land acquired or held by the HCA” there were substituted a reference to “land
acquired or held by the Combined Authority”.

1.3

Sections 5, 6, 8, 9 and 10 of the 2008 Act have effect as if for each
reference to “land” there were substituted a reference to  “land in the area
of the Combined Authority” .

1.4

Section 57(1) of the 2008 Act has effect as if before the definition of
“develop” there were inserted—

      “ Combined Authority ” means the York and North Yorkshire Combined
Authority, a body corporate established under the York and North Yorkshire
Combined Authority Order 2023;

.

##### Modification of the application of Schedules 2 to 4 to the 2008 Act

2

2.1

Schedules 2 to 4 to the 2008 Act apply in relation to the Combined Authority
as modified in accordance with the following provisions.

2.2

Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the 2008 Act (compulsory acquisition of land) has
effect as if for each reference to “section 9” of that Act there were
substituted a reference to  “article 7 of the York and North Yorkshire
Combined Authority Order 2023” .

2.3

Schedule 3 to the 2008 Act (main powers in relation to land acquired by the
HCA) has effect as if for references to land which has been vested in or
acquired by the HCA there were substituted references to land which has been
vested in or acquired by the Combined Authority.

2.4

Schedule 4 to the 2008 Act (powers in relation to, and for, statutory
undertakers) has effect as if for each reference to the HCA there were
substituted a reference to the York and North Yorkshire Combined Authority.

  Modification of the application of Part 8 of, and schedule 21 to the 2011
Act

Article 11

1

1.1

Chapter 2 of Part 8 of the 2011 Act (Mayoral development corporations) applies
in relation to the Combined Authority as modified in accordance with the
following provisions.

1.2

Section 196 of the 2011 Act (interpretation of Chapter) has effect as if for
the definitions of “the Mayor” and “MDC” there were substituted—

      “ the Area ” means the area of the Combined Authority;           “ the
Combined Authority ” means the Combined Authority established by the York and
North Yorkshire Combined Authority Order 2023;           “ Corporation ” means
a corporation established by the Secretary of State in accordance with the
provisions in section 198 following the designation of an area of land by the
Combined Authority;           “ National Park ” means the North York Moors
National Park and the Yorkshire Dales National Park ; and           “ National
Park authority ” means a National Park authority for a National Park.

.

1.3

Sections 197 to 222 of the 2011 Act have effect as if for each reference to—

1.3.a

“the Greater London Authority” there were substituted “the Combined
Authority”;

1.3.b

“the Mayor” there were substituted “the Combined Authority” except for the
occurrences in sections 197(3)(d) and (e), 199(2), 202(7)(a) and 214(4)(a);
and

1.3.c

“MDC” there were substituted “Corporation”.

1.4

Section 197 of the 2011 Act (designation of Mayoral development areas) has
effect as if—

1.4.a

in subsection (1) for “Greater London” there were substituted  “the Area” ;

1.4.b

in subsection (3)(a) for, “any one or more of the Greater London Authority’s
principal purposes”, there were substituted “economic development and
regeneration in the Area”;

1.4.c

in subsection (3)(d)—

1.4.c.i

for “the London Assembly” there were substituted  “the members of the Combined
Authority who are appointed by the constituent councils (including substitute
members, acting in place of those members)” ;

1.4.c.ii

for “the Mayor” in both places there were substituted  “the Mayor for the
Area” ; and

1.4.c.iii

for “subsection (4)(d), (e), (f) or (g)” there were substituted  “subsection
(4)(d) or (e)” ;

1.4.d

in subsection (3)(e)—

1.4.d.i

for “the Mayor” in both places there were substituted  “the Mayor for the
Area” ; and

1.4.d.ii

for “the London Assembly” there were substituted  “the Combined Authority” ;

1.4.e

in subsection (3)(f) for “the London Assembly” there were substituted  “the
Combined Authority” ;

1.4.f

in subsection (4)—

1.4.f.i

in paragraph (a) for “the London Assembly” there were substituted  “the
members of the Combined Authority who are appointed by the constituent
councils (including substitute members, acting in place of those members)” ;

1.4.f.ii

paragraph (b) were omitted;

1.4.f.iii

in paragraph (d) for “each London borough council whose borough” there were
substituted  “each district council whose local government area” ;

1.4.f.iv

in paragraph (e) for “the Common Council of the City of London if any part of
the Area is within the City” there were substituted  “a National Park
authority if any part of the area is within a National Park” ;

1.4.f.v

paragraphs (f) and (g) were omitted;

1.4.g

in subsection (5)—

1.4.g.i

in paragraph (a) for “the London Assembly” there were substituted  “the
Combined Authority” ;

1.4.g.ii

in paragraph (b) for “the London Assembly” there were substituted  “the
Combined Authority” ;

1.4.g.iii

in paragraph (b)(i) for “the Assembly” there were substituted  “the Combined
Authority” ;

1.4.g.iv

in paragraph (b)(ii) for “the Assembly members voting” there were substituted
“all members of the Combined Authority who are appointed by the constituent
councils (including substitute members, acting in place of those members)
present and voting on that motion” ;

1.4.h

in subsection (6)(c) for “Mayoral development corporation” there were
substituted  “Corporation” ; and

1.4.i

subsection (7) were omitted.

1.5

Section 198 of the 2011 Act (Mayoral development corporations: establishment)
has effect as if—

1.5.a

in the heading for “Mayoral development corporations” there were substituted
“Corporations” ; and

1.5.b

for each reference to “Mayoral development corporation” there were substituted
“Corporation” .

1.6

Section 199 of the 2011 Act (exclusion of land from Mayoral development areas)
has effect as if in subsection (2)—

1.6.a

for “the London Assembly” there were substituted  “the members of the Combined
Authority who are appointed by the constituent councils (including substitute
members, acting in place of those members)” ; and

1.6.b

for “the Mayor” in both places there were substituted  “the Mayor for the
Area” .

1.7

Section 200 of the 2011 Act (transfers of property etc to a Mayoral
development corporation) has effect as if—

1.7.a

in subsection (3)—

1.7.a.i

in paragraph (a) for “a London borough council” there were substituted  “a
district council wholly or partly in the Area” ;

1.7.a.ii

paragraph (b) were omitted;

1.7.a.iii

in paragraphs (d) and (e), for “in Greater London” there were substituted  “in
the Area” ;

1.7.a.iv

paragraph (k) were omitted;

1.7.b

in subsection (4) paragraph (b) were omitted; and

1.7.c

in subsection (10) the definitions of “functional body” and “public authority”
were omitted.

1.8

Section 201 of the 2011 Act (object and powers) has effect as if subsection
(8)(b) were omitted.

1.9

Section 202 of the 2011 Act (functions in relation to town and country
planning) has effect as if—

1.9.a

in subsection (7)(a) for “the Mayor” there were substituted  “the Mayor for
the Area” ;

1.9.b

in subsection (7)(c) for “the London Assembly” there were substituted  “the
members of the Combined Authority who are appointed by the constituent
councils (including substitute members, acting in place of those members)” ,
and

1.9.c

in subsection (7) at the end in the definition of “affected local authority”
for “(d), (e), (f) or (g)” there were substituted  “(d) or (e)” .

1.10

Section 203 of the 2011 Act (arrangements for discharge of, or assistance
with, planning functions) has effect as if—

1.10.a

for each reference to “a London borough council or the Common Council of the
City of London” there were substituted  “a district council, county council or
a National Park authority” ; and

1.10.b

in subsections (1) and (5), for each reference to “council” there were
substituted  “council or National Park Authority” .

1.11

Section 207 of the 2011 Act (acquisition of land) has effect as if—

1.11.a

in subsection (2) for “in Greater London” there were substituted  “in the
Area” ; and

1.11.b

in subsection (3) for “the Mayor of London” there were substituted  “the
Combined Authority” .

1.12

Section 214 of the 2011 Act (powers in relation to discretionary relief from
non-domestic rates) has effect as if—

1.12.a

in subsection (4)(a) for “the Mayor” there were substituted  “the Mayor for
the Area” ;

1.12.b

in subsection (4)(c) for “the London Assembly or an affected local authority”
there were substituted  “the members of the Combined Authority who are
appointed by the constituent councils (including substitute members, acting in
place of those members) or a district council wholly or partly in the Area” ;
and

1.12.c

in subsection (4) at the end the definition of “affected local authority” were
omitted.

1.13

Section 216 of the 2011 Act (transfers of property, rights and liabilities)
has effect as if—

1.13.a

in subsection (2) “, (e)” were omitted; and

1.13.b

in subsection (4)—

1.13.b.i

the definition of “functional body” were omitted; and

1.13.b.ii

in the definition of “permitted recipient”—

1.13.b.ii.aa

paragraph (b) were omitted,

1.13.b.ii.bb

in paragraph (d) for “a London borough council” there were substituted  “a
district council wholly or partly within the Area” , and

1.13.b.ii.cc

paragraph (e) were omitted.

1.14

Schedule 21 to the 2011 Act (Mayoral development corporations) has effect as
if—

1.14.a

for each reference to—

1.14.a.i

“the Mayor” there were substituted “the Combined Authority”, except for the
reference in paragraph 1(1);

1.14.a.ii

“the Mayor’s” there were substituted “the Combined Authority’s”;

1.14.a.iii

“an MDC” there were substituted “the Corporation”;

1.14.b

in paragraph 1(1)—

1.14.b.i

for “A Mayoral development corporation (“ MDC ”)” there were substituted  “A
Corporation” ;

1.14.b.ii

for “the Mayor of London (“the Mayor”)” there were substituted  “the Combined
Authority” ;

1.14.c

in paragraph 1(2) for “each relevant London council” there were substituted
“each relevant district council” ;

1.14.d

in paragraph 1(3)—

1.14.d.i

sub-paragraph (a) were omitted; and

1.14.d.ii

in sub-paragraph (b) for “a London council” there were substituted  “a
district council” ;

1.14.e

in paragraph 1(5), for ““MDC’s” there were substituted “Corporation’s”;

1.14.f

in paragraph 2(5)(d) for “a relevant London council” there were substituted
“a relevant district council” ;

1.14.g

in paragraph 3—

1.14.g.i

for “an MDC” there were substituted  “a Corporation” ;

1.14.g.ii

for “An MDC’s” in each place in which it occurs there were substituted  “A
Corporation’s” ; and

1.14.g.iii

for “the MDC’s” there were substituted  “the Corporation’s” ;

1.14.h

in paragraph 4(4) for “the London Assembly” there were substituted  “the
Combined Authority” ;

1.14.i

in paragraph 9(c) for “each relevant London council” there were substituted
“each relevant district council” ; and

1.14.j

in paragraph 10(1)(c) the reference to “and to the London Assembly” were
omitted.

  Permit schemes: modification of the application of Part 3 of the Traffic
Management Act 2004

Article 20(4)

1

1.1

Part 3 of the TM Act is modified as follows.

1.2

Section 33A (implementation of permit schemes of strategic highways companies
and local highway authorities in England) has effect as if—

1.2.a

subsection (1) were omitted;

1.2.b

for subsection (2) there were substituted—

1.2.b.2

A permit scheme prepared in accordance with section 33(1) or (2) by the
Combined Authority does not have effect in the Area unless the Combined
Authority gives effect to it by order.

; and

1.2.c

subsection (3) were omitted.

1.3

Section 36 (variation and revocation of permit schemes) has effect as if, for
subsections (1) to (3) there were substituted—

1.3.1

The Combined Authority may by order vary or revoke a permit scheme to the
extent that it has effect in the Area by virtue of an order made by the
Combined Authority under section 33A(2).

1.3.2

The Secretary of State may direct the Combined Authority to vary or revoke a
permit scheme by an order under subsection (1).

1.3.3

An order made by the Combined Authority under subsection (1) may vary or
revoke an order made by the Combined Authority under section 33A(2), or an
order previously made by the Combined Authority under subsection (1).

.

1.4

Section 39 (interpretation of Part 3) has effect as if, in subsection (1),
after the definition of “the appropriate national authority”, there were
inserted—

      “ the Area ” means the area of the Combined Authority;           “ the
Combined Authority ” means The York and North Yorkshire Combined Authority;

.

Modifications of police and crime commissioner enactments in their application
to the Mayor

Article 33(2)

##### Primary legislation

###### Police (Property) Act 1897

1

1.1

The Police (Property) Act 1897  is modified as follows.

1.2

In section 2(2A) (regulations with respect to unclaimed property in possession
of police), for the last reference to “relevant body” substitute  “Combined
Authority” .

###### Trustee Investments Act 1961

2

2.1

The Trustee Investments Act 1961  is modified as follows.

2.2

In paragraph 9 of Part 2 of the First Schedule (manner of investment), for
“similar officer of the authority” substitute  “similar officer of the
Combined Authority deployed wholly or partly in relation to the PCC functions
of the Mayor” .

###### Pensions (Increase) Act 1971

3

3.1

The Pensions (Increase) Act 1971  is modified as follows.

3.2

In paragraph 51(aa) of Schedule 2 (official pensions: court and police
staffs), for “a police and crime commissioner” substitute  “the police and
crime commissioner for North Yorkshire or of the Combined Authority deployed
wholly or partly in relation to the PCC functions of the Mayor” .

###### Local Government (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1976

4

4.1

The Local Government (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1976  is modified as
follows.

4.2

In section 29(1) (repayment of unclaimed compensation etc. paid into court) ,
for “or transferred to the authority”, substitute  “to the Mayor, or
transferred to the Combined Authority in relation to the Mayor’s PCC
functions” .

4.3

In section 30(3)(a) (power to forgo repayment of advances of renumeration paid
to deceased employees) , for “maintained by a local authority”, substitute
“maintained by the Mayor of the Combined Authority” .

4.4

In section 44(1) (interpretation etc. of Part I), in paragraph (a)  of the
definition of “local authority”, for “13 to 16, 29, 30, 38, 39 and 41”
substitute  “13, 14, 16, 29 and 38” .

###### Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980

5

5.1

The Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980  is modified as follows.

5.2

In section 99 (directions to dispose of land – supplementary)—

5.2.a

after subsection (2), insert—

5.2.a.2A

Where a notice under subsection (1) is received by the Combined Authority
which relates to land used wholly or partly in relation to the Mayor’s PCC
functions, the Mayor is to make any representations under subsection (2) on
behalf of the Combined Authority to the Secretary of State.

;

5.2.b

in subsection (4)—

5.2.b.i

in paragraph (dbzb)  at the end insert  “or, as the case may be, the Mayor” ;

5.2.b.ii

omit paragraph (dc) .

###### Dartford-Thurrock Crossing Act 1988

6

6.1

The Dartford-Thurrock Crossing Act 1988  is modified as follows.

6.2

In section 19(a)(i) (exemption from tolls), for “a local policing body”
substitute  “the Combined Authority for use in relation to the exercise of the
Mayor’s PCC functions” .

###### Local Government Finance Act 1988

7

7.1

The Local Government Finance Act 1988  is modified as follows.

7.2

In section 114 (functions of responsible officer as regards reports)—

7.2.a

for section (4)(b)(i)  substitute—

7.2.a.i

the Mayor exercising PCC functions, each member of the Combined Authority,
including the Mayor, and each member of the police and crime panel for the
Mayor’s area;

7.2.b

in subsection (8A)(b) , for “relevant authority”, substitute  “Mayor” .

7.3

In section 115 (authority’s duties as regards reports)—

7.3.a

for subsection (1B)  substitute—

7.3.a.1B

In the case of a report made by the chief finance officer of the Combined
Authority in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions, the Mayor must consider
the report and decide whether the Mayor agrees or disagrees with the views
contained in the report and what action (if any) the Mayor proposes to take in
consequence of it.

;

7.3.b

in subsection (1E)—

7.3.b.i

for “the elected local policing body”, substitute  “the Mayor” ;

7.3.b.ii

for “that body”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “the Mayor” ;

7.3.c

in subsection (1F)(b), for “elected local policing body’s” substitute
“Combined Authority’s” ;

7.3.d

in subsection (2) , for “an elected local policing body” substitute  “a
Combined Authority in relation to a Mayor exercising PCC functions” .

7.4

For section 116(2B)  (information about consideration of reports etc.),
substitute—

7.4.2B

In the case of the Mayor, the chief finance officer of the Combined Authority
must notify the auditor of the Combined Authority of any decision taken by the
Mayor in accordance with section 115.

.

###### Road Traffic Act 1988

8

8.1

The Road Traffic Act 1988  is modified as follows.

8.2

In section 144(2)(b) (exceptions from requirement of third-party insurance)—

8.2.a

for “a local policing body” substitute  “the Combined Authority for use in
relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions” ;

8.2.b

for “a police and crime commissioner’s staff (within the meaning of Part 1 of
the Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011)” substitute  “the
Combined Authority’s staff deployed wholly or partly in relation to the
Mayor’s PCC functions” .

###### Local Government and Housing Act 1989

9

9.1

The 1989 Act is modified as follows.

9.2

In section 1 (disqualification and political restriction of certain officers
and staff)—

9.2.a

in subsection (9) , for “an elected policing body” substitute  “the Combined
Authority deployed predominantly in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions” ;

9.2.b

in subsection (10) , for “an elected local policing body does not include a
deputy police and crime commissioner” substitute  “the Combined Authority
deployed predominantly in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions does not
include the deputy mayor for policing and crime” .

9.3

In section 4 (designations and reports of head of paid service)—

9.3.a

omit subsections (1) and (1A) ;

9.3.b

for subsection (4) , substitute—

9.3.b.4

It shall be the duty of the head of the Combined Authority’s paid service, as
soon as practicable after he has prepared a report relating to the Mayor’s PCC
functions under this section, to arrange for a copy of it to be sent to the
members of the Combined Authority, including the Mayor, and to the police and
crime panel.

;

9.3.c

in subsection (5) , omit “(other than an elected policing body)”;

9.3.d

in subsection (5A) , for “by the head of the body’s paid service” substitute
“that relates to the Mayor’s PCC functions” .

9.4

In section 5 (designation and reports of monitoring officer)—

9.4.a

omit subsection (1C) ;

9.4.b

for subsection (3)(b)(a) , substitute—

9.4.b.a

in the case of a report relating to the Mayor’s PCC functions, to the members
of the Combined Authority, including the Mayor, and to the police and crime
panel; and

;

9.4.c

in subsection (5)—

9.4.c.i

for “a relevant authority” substitute  “the Mayor” ;

9.4.c.ii

in paragraph (a) —

9.4.c.ii.aa

in sub-paragraph (i), omit “in the case of an elected policing body”;

9.4.c.ii.bb

omit sub-paragraph (ii);

9.4.d

in subsection (8) , in the definition of “relevant authority” omit “an elected
local policing body”.

9.5

Omit section 7(1)(aa) (all staff to be appointed on merit) .

9.6

Omit section 13(5ZA) (voting rights of members of certain committees: England
and Wales) .

###### Police Act 1996

10

10.1

The Police Act 1996  is modified as follows.

10.2

In section 22A(9)(a) (collaboration agreements) , for “that body” substitute
“the Combined Authority deployed wholly or partly in relation to the Mayor’s
PCC functions” .

10.3

In section 41 (directions as to minimum budget) —

10.3.a

in subsection (1), for “commissioner’s council tax requirement (under section
42A of the Local Government Finance Act 1992) or budget requirement (under
section 43 of that Act)” substitute  “PCC component council tax requirement” ;

10.3.b

in subsection (4), for “precept issued or calculation made by the commissioner
under Part 1 of the Local Government Finance Act 1992”, substitute
“determination by the Mayor of the final amount of the PCC component” .

10.4

In section 53E (guidance about civilian staff employed by local policing
bodies and chief officers) —

10.4.a

in subsection (1)(a), for “a local policing body” substitute  “the Combined
Authority and are deployed wholly or partly in relation to the Mayor’s PCC
functions” ;

10.4.b

in subsection (1)(b), for “the body” substitute  “the Combined Authority” .

10.5

In section 88 (liability for wrongful acts of constables) —

10.5.a

in subsection (5A), for the first reference to “local policing body”
substitute  “Combined Authority deployed wholly or partly in relation to the
Mayor’s PCC functions” ;

10.5.b

in subsection (6)(a), for “local policing body” substitute  “Combined
Authority deployed wholly or partly in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions”
.

10.6

In section 92(1) (grants by local authorities) , for “parish or community”
substitute  “parish, community or Combined Authority” .

10.7

In section 96(1B) (arrangements for obtaining the views of the community on
policing) , for “precept for a financial year is issued by the police and
crime commissioner under section 40 of the Local Government Finance Act 1992”
substitute  “PCC component is determined by the Mayor” .

###### Police Reform Act 2002

11

11.1

The Police Reform Act 2002  is modified as follows.

11.2

In section 40(7)(d) (community safety accreditation schemes) , for “local
policing body” substitute  “Combined Authority and who are deployed wholly or
partly in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions” .

11.3

In section 42(7) (supplementary provisions relating to designations and
accreditations) —

11.3.a

for the first reference to “local policing body” substitute  “Combined
Authority deployed wholly or partly in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions”
;

11.3.b

for the second reference to “local policing body” substitute  “Combined
Authority” ;

11.3.c

for “or body” substitute  “or Combined Authority” .

###### Proceeds of Crime Act 2002

12

12.1

The Proceeds of Crime Act 2002  is modified as follows.

12.2

For section 55(8)(aa) (sums received by designated officer) substitute—

12.2.aa

a member of the Combined Authority’s staff deployed wholly or partly in
relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions,

.

###### Local Government Act 2003

13

13.1

The 2003 Act is modified as follows.

13.2

In section 7 (credit arrangements)—

13.2.a

in subsection (1)(a), for “its part” substitute  “the part of the Combined
Authority” ;

13.2.b

in subsection (2), for “on the part of the authority”, substitute  “on the
part of the Combined Authority” .

###### Railways and Transport Safety Act 2003

14

14.1

The Railways and Transport Safety Act 2003  is modified as follows.

14.2

For paragraph 7(2)(c) of Schedule 4 (British Transport Police Authority),
substitute—

14.2.c

a member of staff of the Combined Authority deployed wholly or partly in
relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions,

.

###### Local Government and Public Involvement in Health Act 2007

15

15.1

The Local Government and Public Involvement in Health Act 2007  is modified as
follows.

15.2

For section 15(1)(a) (incidental etc provision in orders or regulations),
substitute—

15.2.a

for the transfer of functions, property, rights or liabilities from a local
authority, Combined Authority in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions, or
local policing body for any area to another local authority, Combined
Authority in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions, or local policing body
whose area consists of or includes the whole or part of that area;

.

###### Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009

16

16.1

The 2009 Act is modified as follows.

16.2

In paragraph 9(1)(a) of Schedule 5B (mayors for combined authority areas:
further provision about elections) , for “or deputy mayor” substitute  “,
deputy mayor or deputy mayor for policing and crime” .

###### Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011

17

The PRSR Act is modified as follows.

18

In section 5 (police and crime commissioners to issue police and crime plans)
—

18.a

in subsection (1), for “ordinary election” substitute  “election for the
return of a Mayor” ;

18.b

in subsection (13)—

18.b.i

in the definition of “financial year”, for “the police and crime commissioner”
substitute  “the Combined Authority” ;

18.b.ii

omit the definition of “ordinary election”.

19

In section 7(7) (police and crime plans) —

19.a

in the definition of “financial year”, for “the elected local policing body”
substitute  “the Combined Authority” ;

19.b

omit the definition of “ordinary election”;

19.c

in the definitions of “planning period” and “qualifying day”, for “ordinary
election” substitute  “election for the return of a Mayor” .

20

In section 16 (appointment of persons not employed by elected local policing
bodies)—

20.a

for subsection (1), substitute—

20.a.1

This section applies where the Mayor, in connection with the exercise of the
Mayor’s PCC functions, is required or authorised by any Act—

20.a.1.a

to appoint a person to a specified post in the Combined Authority; or

20.a.1.b

to designate a person as having specified duties or responsibilities.

;

20.b

in subsection (2), for “the body” substitute  “the Combined Authority” .

21

In section 18 (delegation of functions by police and crime commissioners) —

21.a

for each reference to “deputy police and crime commissioner” substitute
“deputy mayor for policing and crime” ;

21.b

in subsection (6)—

21.b.i

after paragraph (d), insert—

21.b.i.da

a deputy mayor under section 107C of the Local Democracy, Economic Development
and Construction Act 2009 ;

;

21.b.ii

after paragraph (h), insert—

21.b.ii.i

the Combined Authority.

;

21.c

in subsection (7)—

21.c.i

for paragraph (f), substitute—

21.c.i.f

calculating the PCC component council tax requirement.

.

21.c.ii

omit paragraphs (g) and (h);

21.d

for subsection (10), substitute—

21.d.10

The deputy mayor for policing and crime is a member of staff of the Combined
Authority, unless they are a member of the Combined Authority.

.

22

In section 21 (police fund), after subsection (3) insert—

22.3A

Expenditure may be paid out of the police fund only if, and to the extent
that, it is incurred or otherwise relates to, the exercise of the Mayor’s PCC
functions.

.

23

In section 28 (police and crime panels outside London) —

23.a

omit subsections (1A) and (1B);

23.b

in subsection (6)(a), after “police and crime commissioner” insert  “, the
deputy mayor for policing and crime and any other person who exercises any
function of the Mayor pursuant to arrangements made under section 18” .

24

In section 29 (power to require attendance and information)—

24.a

for subsection (1), substitute—

24.a.1

A police and crime panel may require—

24.a.1.a

the Mayor;

24.a.1.b

the deputy mayor for policing and crime,

24.a.1.c

members of staff of the Combined Authority deployed wholly or partly in
relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions, and

24.a.1.d

any members of the Combined Authority who exercise any function of the Mayor
pursuant to arrangements made under section 18,

to attend before the panel (at reasonable notice) to answer any question which
appears to the panel to be necessary in order for it to carry out its
functions.

;

24.b

for subsection (2), substitute—

24.b.2

Nothing in subsection (1) requires a person to give any evidence, or produce
any document, which discloses advice given by that person to—

24.b.2.a

the Mayor in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions,

24.b.2.b

the deputy mayor for policing and crime, or

24.b.2.c

a member of the Combined Authority who exercises any function of the Mayor
pursuant to arrangements made under section 18.

;

24.c

for subsection (5), substitute—

24.c.5

Any person referred to in subsection (1)(b), (c) or (d) must comply with any
requirement imposed on them under that subsection.

;

24.d

in subsection (6), after “commissioner” insert  “or the deputy mayor for
policing and crime” .

25

In section 30 (suspension of police and crime commissioner)—

25.a

in subsection (1), for “relevant police and crime commissioner” substitute
“Mayor so far as acting in the exercise of PCC functions” ;

25.b

for subsection (3), substitute—

25.b.3

For the purposes of salary, pensions and allowances in respect of times during
a period of suspension, the Mayor is to be treated as holding that office
during that suspension.

.

26

In section 31(3) (conduct), for paragraphs (b) to (d) substitute—

26.b

deputy mayor for policing and crime.

.

27

In section 62 (appointment of acting commissioner)—

27.a

for subsection (1), substitute—

27.a.1

The police and crime panel must appoint a person to exercise the Mayor’s PCC
functions (the “acting commissioner”) if the Mayor is suspended from the
exercise of PCC functions in accordance with section 30.

;

27.b

in subsection (2), for “member of the police and crime commissioner’s staff”,
substitute  “member of staff of the Combined Authority deployed wholly or
partly in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions or the deputy mayor for
policing and crime;

27.c

after subsection (2), insert—

27.c.2A

The police and crime panel may not appoint as acting commissioner any person
appointed as a deputy mayor under section 107C of the 2009 Act.

;

27.d

omit subsection (3);

27.e

for subsection (5), substitute—

27.e.5

Any property or rights vested in the Combined Authority in relation to the
Mayor’s PCC functions can be dealt with by the acting commissioner.

;

27.f

omit subsection (6)(c);

27.g

in subsection (7)—

27.g.i

omit “incapacitated or”;

27.g.ii

omit “(c) or”;

27.h

omit subsection (8).

28

For section 63 (vacancy where acting commissioner acts for 6 months),
substitute—

28.63

28.63.1

Subsection (2) applies where—

28.63.1.a

the deputy mayor is appointed under section 107C of the 2009 Act to act for
the Mayor because the Mayor is unable to act; and

28.63.1.b

the Mayor does not cease to be unable to act during the period of 6 months
beginning with the day on which the acting mayor was appointed.

28.63.2

At the end of that 6 month period—

28.63.2.a

the Mayor ceases to be the Mayor, and

28.63.2.b

accordingly, the office of Mayor becomes vacant.

.

29

For section 64(3) to (4A) (disqualification from election as police and crime
commissioner)  , substitute—

29.3

A person is disqualified from being elected as the Mayor at an election held
under the York and North Yorkshire Combined Authority Order 2023 if—

29.3.a

the person has been nominated as a candidate for election as police and crime
commissioner for any other police area at an ordinary election, and

29.3.b

the ordinary election is held on the same day as the election to return the
Mayor.

29.4

A person is disqualified from being elected as the Mayor at an election held
under the Combined Authorities (Mayors) (Filling of Vacancies) Order 2017  if—

29.4.a

the person is the police and crime commissioner for any other police area; or

29.4.b

the person has been nominated as a candidate for election as police and crime
commissioner for any other police area for which an election is held on the
same day.

.

30

In section 65 (disqualification from election or holding office as police and
crime commissioner: police grounds) —

30.a

in subsection (1)(e), insert after paragraph (ii)—

30.a.iii

the Combined Authority;

;

30.b

for subsection (1A), substitute—

30.b.1A

Subsection (1)(e)(i) does not prevent a deputy mayor for policing and crime—

30.b.1A.a

from being elected as Mayor at an election held under the York and North
Yorkshire Combined Authority Order 2023;

30.b.1A.b

from being elected at an election held under the Combined Authorities (Mayors)
(Filling of Vacancies) Order 2017 to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor if,
on the day on which the person is nominated as a candidate at the election and
at all times between that day and the declaration of the result of the
election, the deputy is acting as acting commissioner under section 62.

.

31

In section 70 (declaration of acceptance of office of police and crime
commissioner) —

31.a

for subsection (1), substitute—

31.a.1

A person elected to the office of Mayor may not exercise police and crime
commissioner functions unless that person has made the specified declaration
to the appropriate officer.

;

31.b

omit subsection (2);

31.c

in subsection (5), for the first reference to “office” substitute  “the duty
of exercising police and crime commissioner functions as Mayor” ;

31.d

for subsection (6), substitute—

31.d.6

In this section—

“ appropriate officer ” means the person designated as the head of paid
service by the Combined Authority under section 4(1)(a) of the Local
Government and Housing Act 1989; “ specified declaration ” means the following
declaration— I [Full Name] of [Place] do hereby declare that I accept the duty
of exercising Police and Crime Commissioner functions as York and North
Yorkshire Mayor. In making this declaration, I solemnly and sincerely promise
that in exercising Police and Crime Commissioner functions: I will serve all
the people of York and North Yorkshire. I will act with integrity and
diligence in my role and, to the best of my ability, will execute my duties to
ensure that the police are able to cut crime and protect the public. I will
give a voice to the public, especially victims of crime, and work with other
services to ensure the safety of the community and effective criminal justice.
I will take all steps within my power to ensure transparency of my decisions,
so that I may be properly held to account by the public. I will not interfere
with the operational independence of police officers.

;

31.e

omit subsection (7).

32

In Schedule 1 (police and crime commissioners)—

32.a

for paragraph 1, substitute—

32.a.1

This Schedule applies in relation to the Mayor in the exercise of PCC
functions.

;

32.b

for paragraph 4, substitute—

32.b.4

32.b.4.1

The Mayor must make authorised pension payments.

32.b.4.2

In this paragraph “ authorised pension payments ” means—

32.b.4.2.a

pensions to, or in respect of, persons who have been the police and crime
commissioner for North Yorkshire, and

32.b.4.2.b

amounts for or towards provision of pensions to, or in respect of, persons who
have been the police and crime commissioner for North Yorkshire,

which are of the kinds and amounts determined by the Secretary of State as
payable in accordance with this paragraph.

;

32.c

in paragraph 5(2), for “any of paragraphs 2 to” substitute  “paragraph” ;

32.d

in paragraph 8 —

32.d.i

for each reference to “deputy police and crime commissioner” substitute
“deputy mayor for policing and crime” ;

32.d.ii

for sub-paragraphs (3) and (3A), substitute—

32.d.ii.3

The terms and conditions of a person appointed as the deputy mayor for
policing and crime must ensure that the person’s term of office ends no later
than the third day after the day of the poll at an election for the return of
a Mayor.

32.d.ii.3A

The terms and conditions must also provide for the deputy mayor for policing
and crime’s appointment to end when, following an election held to fill a
vacancy in the office of the appointing Mayor, the person elected makes and
delivers a declaration under section 70.

;

32.e

for paragraph 9(1), substitute—

32.e.1

The Mayor must notify the police and crime panel of each proposed appointment
by the Mayor of a deputy mayor for policing and crime.

;

32.f

in paragraph 10(9)(a), for “ordinary election of a police and crime
commissioner under section 50” substitute  “election for the return of a
Mayor” ;

32.g

for paragraph 13, substitute—

32.g.13

32.g.13.1

The Mayor may pay—

32.g.13.1.a

remuneration, allowances and gratuities to members of the Combined Authority’s
staff deployed wholly or partly in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions; and

32.g.13.1.b

allowances and gratuities to the deputy mayor for policing and crime where
that person is not a member of staff of the Combined Authority.

32.g.13.2

The Mayor may pay—

32.g.13.2.a

pensions to, or in respect of, persons who have been members of the Combined
Authority’s staff deployed wholly or partly in relation to the mayor’s PCC
functions; and

32.g.13.2.b

amounts for or towards provision of pensions to, or in respect of, persons who
have been members of the Combined Authority’s staff deployed wholly or partly
in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions.

32.g.13.3

In this paragraph “allowances”—

32.g.13.3.a

in relation to a member of the Combined Authority’s staff deployed wholly or
partly in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions, means allowances in respect
of expenses incurred by the member of staff in the course of employment as
such a member of staff in relation to such functions; and

32.g.13.3.b

in relation to a deputy mayor for policing and crime who is not a member of
the Combined Authority’s staff, means allowances in respect of expenses
incurred by the deputy mayor for policing and crime in the course of that
person’s duties as deputy mayor for policing and crime.

;

32.h

for paragraph 15(2), substitute—

32.h.2

A person who is—

32.h.2.a

a member of staff of the Combined Authority deployed wholly or partly in
relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions, or

32.h.2.b

a member of the Combined Authority exercising the Mayor’s PCC functions,

has no personal liability for an act or omission done by the person, in the
carrying out of duties relating to the Mayor’s PCC functions as a member of
staff or as a member of the Combined Authority, unless it is shown to have
been done otherwise than in good faith.

;

32.i

for paragraph 16, substitute—

32.i.16

References to the financial year of the Mayor are to be read as if they were
references to the financial year of the Combined Authority.

.

33

In Schedule 5 (issuing precepts)—

33.a

in paragraph 1—

33.a.i

for sub-paragraph (1), substitute—

33.a.i.1

The Mayor may not determine the final amount of the PCC component for a
financial year until the end of the scrutiny process is reached.

;

33.a.ii

for sub-paragraph (3), substitute—

33.a.ii.3

References in this Schedule to the determining of the final amount of the PCC
component include references to the determining of the amount of the PCC
component of a substitute precept.

;

33.b

in paragraph 2, for “the precept which the commissioner is proposing to issue”
substitute  “the proposed amount of the PCC component” ;

33.c

in paragraph 3(3), for “the precept that should be issued” substitute  “the
amount of the PCC component” ;

33.d

in paragraph 4(3), for “precept for the financial year” substitute  “PCC
component for the financial year” ;

33.e

in paragraph 5(3)—

33.e.i

in paragraph (a), for “issue the proposed precept as the precept” substitute
“determine that the proposed amount of the PCC component is the final amount
of the PCC component” ;

33.e.ii

in paragraph (b), for “issue a different precept” substitute  “determine a
different PCC component” ;

33.f

in paragraph 6(2), for “issue the proposed precept as the precept” substitute
“determine that the proposed PCC component is to be the PCC component” ;

33.g

in paragraph 8—

33.g.i

in sub-paragraph (1), for “the issuing of precepts” substitute  “determining
the amount of the PCC component” ;

33.g.ii

in sub-paragraph (4), for “precept that may be issued” substitute  “amount of
the PCC component” .

34

In Schedule 6 (police and crime panels) —

34.a

for paragraph 21, substitute—

34.a.21

The Mayor, a member of the Combined Authority appointed by the constituent
councils, or substitute members acting in place of those members may not be a
member of the police and crime panel for the Area.

;

34.b

in paragraph 22(1)(a), for the words “police and crime commissioner for that
police area” substitute  “Combined Authority” ;

34.c

in paragraph 33, after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

34.c.1A

But this paragraph does not apply if the elected Mayor of that executive is a
member of the Combined Authority appointed by the constituent councils.

;

34.d

in paragraph 34, after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

34.d.1A

But this paragraph does not apply if the current Mayor of that executive is a
member of the Combined Authority appointed by the constituent councils.

.

35

In Schedule 7 (regulations about complaints and conduct matters) —

35.a

in paragraph 3(1)(a)(ii), for “deputy police and crime commissioner”
substitute  “deputy mayor for policing and crime (unless the holder of that
office is a member of the Combined Authority)” ;

35.b

for paragraph 4, substitute—

35.b.4

35.b.4.1

This paragraph applies in relation to qualifying complaints which—

35.b.4.1.a

relate to a holder of the office of—

35.b.4.1.a.i

Mayor; or

35.b.4.1.a.ii

deputy mayor for policing and crime, if the holder of that office is a member
of the Combined Authority, and

35.b.4.1.b

are not, or cease to be, investigated by the Director General of the
Independent Office for Police Conduct or a police force.

35.b.4.2

Regulations must secure that such complaints are dealt with in accordance with
the Combined Authority’s code of conduct adopted under section 27(2) of the
Localism Act 2011.

.

36

In Schedule 8 (appointment, suspension and removal of senior police officers)
—

36.a

for paragraph 4(10), substitute—

36.a.10

For that purpose, “ relevant post-election period ” means the period that—

36.a.10.a

begins with the day of the poll at an election for the return of the Mayor;
and

36.a.10.b

ends with the day on which the person elected as Mayor delivers a declaration
under section 70.

;

36.b

for paragraph 15(8), substitute—

36.b.8

For that purpose, “ relevant post-election period ” means the period that—

36.b.8.a

begins with the day of the poll at an election for the return of the Mayor;
and

36.b.8.b

ends with the day on which the person elected as Mayor delivers a declaration
under section 70.

.

###### Local Audit and Accountability Act 2014

37

37.1

The Local Audit and Accountability Act 2014  is modified as follows—

37.2

In Schedule 4 (further provisions about auditor panels)—

37.2.a

for paragraph 2(4)(a), substitute—

37.2.a.a

cases where the relevant authority referred to in the opening words of sub-
paragraph (2) (“the relevant authority concerned”) is a Combined Authority
where the Mayor exercises PCC functions;

;

37.2.b

for paragraph 2(5), substitute—

37.2.b.5

Where the relevant authority concerned is a Combined Authority where the Mayor
exercises PCC functions, references to “the authority” include the chief
constable for the area.

.

##### Secondary legislation

###### Motor Vehicles (Third Party Risks) Regulations 1972

38

38.1

The Motor Vehicles (Third Party Risks) Regulations 1972  are modified as
follows.

38.2

For regulation 7(3) (production of evidence as alternatives to certificates),
substitute—

38.2.3

In the case of a motor vehicle owned by the Combined Authority for use wholly
or partly in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions, a certificate in form F
signed by some person authorised in that behalf by the Mayor that the motor
vehicle is owned by the Combined Authority for use in relation to the Mayor’s
PCC functions.

.

###### Official Secrets Act 1989 (Prescription) Order 1990

39

39.1

The Official Secrets Act 1989 (Prescription) Order 1990  is modified as
follows.

39.2

In Schedule 2 (prescriptions), for “a Deputy police and crime commissioner”,
substitute  “a deputy mayor for policing and crime” .

###### Police (Disposal of Sound Equipment) Regulations 1995

40

40.1

The Police (Disposal of Sound Equipment) Regulations 1995  are modified as
follows.

40.2

In regulation 4(4) (application of proceeds of sale), for “local policing
body” substitute  “Combined Authority” .

###### Police (Property) Regulations 1997

41

41.1

The Police (Property) Regulations 1997  are modified as follows.

41.2

In regulation 6(6), for “relevant authority” substitute  “Combined Authority”
.

41.3

In regulation 7(1), for “vest in them” substitute  “vest in the Combined
Authority” .

###### Health and Safety (Enforcing Authority) Regulations 1998

42

42.1

The Health and Safety (Enforcing Authority) Regulations 1998  are modified as
follows.

42.2

In regulation 4(3)(d) (exceptions), for “a local policing body” substitute
“the Combined Authority in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions” .

###### Motor Vehicles (Driving Licences) Regulations 1999

43

43.1

The Motor Vehicles (Driving Licences) Regulations 1999  are modified as
follows.

43.2

In regulation 23(1)(c)(ii) (persons by whom theory tests may be conducted),
for “local policing body or” substitute  “the Combined Authority deployed
wholly or partly in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions or a” .

43.3

In regulation 24(1)(d)(ii) (persons by whom manoeuvres tests, large vehicle
off road manoeuvres tests, practical tests and unitary tests may be
conducted), for “local policing body or” substitute  “the Combined Authority
deployed wholly or partly in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions or a” .

43.4

In regulation 58(2)(c)(ii) (provision of approved training courses), for
“local policing body” substitute  “the Combined Authority deployed wholly or
partly in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions” .

###### Redundancy Payments (Continuity of Employment in Local Government, etc) (Modification) Order 1999

44

44.1

The Redundancy Payments (Continuity of Employment in Local Government, etc)
(Modification) Order 1999  is modified as follows.

44.2

For paragraph 2 of Section 6 of Schedule 1 (Employment to which this Order
applies: Employers immediately before the relevant event), substitute—

44.2.2

The Combined Authority in relation to employees deployed wholly or partly in
relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions.

.

###### Motor Vehicles (Access to Driver Licensing Records) Regulations 2001

45

45.1

The Motor Vehicles (Access to Driver Licensing Records) Regulations 2001  are
modified as follows.

45.2

In regulation 3(2) (further disclosure), for “local policing body or”
substitute  “the Combined Authority deployed wholly or partly in relation to
the Mayor’s PCC functions or a” .

###### Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (Drug Testing of Persons in Police Detention) (Prescribed Persons) Regulations 2001

46

46.1

The Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (Drug Testing of Persons in Police
Detention) (Prescribed Persons) Regulations 2001  are modified as follows.

46.2

In regulation 2(1)(b) for “a local policing body or” substitute  “the Combined
Authority deployed wholly or partly in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions
or a” .

###### Police Regulations 2003

47

47.1

The Police Regulations 2003  are modified as follows.

47.2

In regulation 7(7)(a) (business interests of members of police forces:
general), for “a deputy appointed under section 18(1)(a) or 19(1)(a) of the
Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011” substitute  “the deputy
mayor for policing and crime” .

47.3

In regulation 24(1)(b) (pay), for “local policing body” substitute  “Combined
Authority deployed wholly or partly in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions”
.

###### Docking of Working Dogs’ Tails (England) Regulations 2007

48

48.1

The Docking of Working Dogs’ Tails (England) Regulations 2007  are modified as
follows.

48.2

In regulation 2 (interpretation), for the definition of “police
identification” substitute—

“ police identification ” means evidence that the person presenting the
identification is— a police officer; employed by the Combined Authority and
deployed wholly or partly in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions; contracted
to work for the Mayor in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions; or contracted
to work for, or otherwise employed by, the chief officer of police.

.

###### REACH Enforcement Regulations 2008

49

49.1

The REACH Enforcement Regulations 2008  are modified as follows.

49.2

In paragraph 5(c) of Part 3 of Schedule 3, for “local policing body”
substitute  “the Combined Authority in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions.”
.

###### Elected Local Policing Bodies (Specified Information) Order 2011

50

50.1

The Elected Local Policing Bodies (Specified Information) Order 2011  is
modified as follows.

50.2

In article 1(2) (interpretation)—

50.2.a

for the definition of “election” substitute—

“ election ” means an election for the return of a Mayor;

;

50.2.b

in the definition of “relevant office holder”, for “deputy police and crime
commissioner” substitute  “deputy mayor for policing and crime” ;

50.2.c

for the definition of “senior employee”, substitute—

“ senior employee ” means a member of staff of the Combined Authority deployed
wholly or partly in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions and whose salary
exceeds £50,000;

;

50.2.d

for the definition of “staff”, substitute—

“ staff ” means members of staff employed by the Combined Authority deployed
wholly or partly in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions but does not include
the deputy mayor for policing and crime.

.

50.3

In the Schedule—

50.3.a

in paragraph 2—

50.3.a.i

omit the first reference to “of the elected local policing body”;

50.3.a.ii

for each of the remaining two references to “elected local policing body”
substitute  “Combined Authority” ;

50.3.b

in paragraph 3 —

50.3.b.i

for sub-paragraph (b), substitute—

50.3.b.i.b

the PCC component;

;

50.3.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (c), for “the precept” substitute  “the PCC component” ;

50.3.c

in paragraph 4 —

50.3.c.i

for the first reference to “elected local policing body”, substitute
“Combined Authority in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions” ;

50.3.c.ii

in sub-paragraph (a), for “by, or occupied for the purposes of” substitute
“by the Combined Authority in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions, or
occupied for the purposes of” ;

50.3.c.iii

in sub-paragraphs (b) and (c), for “£10,000” substitute  “£5,000” ;

50.3.c.iv

for sub-paragraph (d), substitute—

50.3.c.iv.d

a list of every contract with a value not exceeding £5,000—

50.3.c.iv.d.i

which the Mayor has entered into, or is to enter into, on behalf of the
combined authority in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions; or

50.3.c.iv.d.ii

to which the chief officer of the police force maintained by the mayor is, or
is to be, a party,

including the value of the contract, the identity of every other party to the
contract and the purpose of the contract.

.

###### Elected Local Policing Bodies (Complaints and Misconduct) Regulations 2012

51

51.1

The Elected Local Policing Bodies (Complaints and Misconduct) Regulations 2012
are modified as follows.

51.2

In regulation 2 (interpretation)—

51.2.a

after the definition of “document”, insert—

“ head of paid service ” means the head of paid service designated by the
Combined Authority under section 4(1)(a) of the Local Government and Housing
Act 1989 ;

;

51.2.b

in the definition of “police and crime panel”, in paragraph (a), for “deputy
police and crime commissioner” substitute  “deputy mayor for policing and
crime” ;

51.2.c

in the definition of “relevant office”, for paragraph (b) substitute—

51.2.c.b

deputy mayor for policing and crime;

.

51.3

In regulation 7 (delegation of powers and duties by police and crime panels)—

51.3.a

for paragraph (1)(a), substitute—

51.3.a.a

the monitoring officer appointed by the Combined Authority under section
5(1)(a) of the Local Government and Housing Act 1989;

;

51.3.b

in paragraph (2), omit “a chief executive or”;

51.3.c

for paragraph (3), substitute—

51.3.c.3

Where the police and crime panel delegates powers or duties conferred or
imposed by or under regulation 9 (notification and recording of complaints),
11 (notification and recording of conduct matters arising in civil
proceedings) or 12 (recording of conduct matters in other cases) to the
monitoring officer appointed by the Combined Authority, the monitoring officer
shall notify the head of paid service of any complaint or conduct matter
considered by the monitoring officer in accordance with those regulations.

.

51.4

In regulation 15(3)(a) (disapplication of requirements of regulations), for
“the office holder’s staff” substitute  “staff deployed by the Combined
Authority wholly or partly in relation to the mayor’s PCC functions” .

51.5

In regulation 28(1) (informal resolution)—

51.5.a

omit sub-paragraph (a);

51.5.b

for sub-paragraph (b), substitute—

51.5.b.b

the deputy mayor for policing and crime who is not a member of the Combined
Authority at the time when the complaint is recorded;

.

51.6

For regulation 29 (resolution in accordance with Part 3 of the Local
Government Act 2000), substitute—

############ Resolution in accordance with the combined authority’s code of conduct.

51.6.29

51.6.29.1

If a complaint to which this Part applies concerns the conduct of—

51.6.29.1.a

the Mayor, or

51.6.29.1.b

the deputy mayor for policing and crime who is a member of the Combined
Authority at the time when the complaint is recorded,

the police and crime panel shall pass the complaint to the monitoring officer
appointed by the Combined Authority under section 5(1)(a) of the Local
Government and Housing Act 1989 (“the monitoring officer”).

51.6.29.2

On receiving a complaint in accordance with paragraph (1), the monitoring
officer shall deal with it in accordance with the Combined Authority’s code of
conduct adopted under section 27(2) of the Localism Act 2011.

51.6.29.3

The monitoring officer shall as soon as practicable inform the police and
crime panel of the outcome of the complaint.

.

###### Police Appeals Tribunals Rules 2012

52

52.1

The Police Appeals Tribunal Rules 2012  are modified as follows.

52.2

In rule 15(4) (legal and other representation) for “relevant local policing
body” substitute  “Combined Authority” .

###### Police and Crime Commissioner (Disqualification) (Supplementary Provisions) Regulations 2012

53

53.1

The Police and Crime Commissioner (Disqualification) (Supplementary
Provisions) Regulations 2012  are modified as follows.

53.2

In regulation 3(2) (entities under the control of a relevant council)—

53.2.a

in sub-paragraph (c), omit “or”;

53.2.b

in sub-paragraph (d), after (c) insert  “, or” ;

53.2.c

after sub-paragraph (d), insert—

53.2.c.e

the Combined Authority.

.

###### Police and Crime Panels (Precepts and Chief Constable Appointments) Regulations 2012

54

54.1

The Police and Crime Panels (Precepts and Chief Constable Appointments)
Regulations 2012  are modified as follows.

54.2

In regulation 4(2) (report on proposed precept), for “may issue the proposed
precept as the precept” substitute  “may determine that the proposed PCC
component is the final amount of the PCC component” .

54.3

In regulation 5(2) (veto: police and crime commissioner’s response), for
“precept that he now proposes to issue” substitute  “PCC component that he now
proposes to determine” .

54.4

In regulation 6(2) (panel’s review of revised precept)—

54.4.a

in sub-paragraph (a), for “issuing the revised precept as the precept”
substitute  “finalising the revised precept as the PCC component to be
determined” ;

54.4.b

in sub-paragraph (b), for “precept that should be issued” substitute  “PCC
component that should be determined” .

54.5

In regulation 7 (police and crime commissioner’s consideration of second
report), for “1st March” substitute  “the penultimate working day in February”
.

54.6

In regulation 8 (issuing precept)—

54.6.a

in paragraph (2)—

54.6.a.i

in sub-paragraph (a), for “issue the revised precept as the precept”
substitute  “finalise the revised precept as the PCC component to be
determined” ;

54.6.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (b), for “issue a different precept” substitute  “finalise a
different amount of the PCC component” ;

54.6.b

in paragraph (3)—

54.6.b.i

in sub-paragraph (a), for “issue a precept” substitute  “finalise the PCC
component” ;

54.6.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (b), for “issue a precept” substitute  “finalise the PCC
component” .

###### Local Government Pension Scheme Regulations 2013

55

55.1

The Local Government Pension Scheme Regulations 2013 are modified as follows.

55.2

After regulation 64(8) (special circumstances where revised actuarial
valuations and certificates must be obtained), insert—

55.2.8A

Paragraph (8B) applies where the exiting employer is the Police and Crime
Commissioner for the area and the liabilities of the fund in respect of
benefits due to the Commissioner’s current and former employees (or those of
any predecessor authority) have been or are to be transferred to the Combined
Authority by virtue of the York and North Yorkshire Combined Authority Order
2023.

55.2.8B

Where this paragraph applies, no exit payment is due under paragraph (1) and
paragraph (2) does not apply.

.

###### Local Audit (Auditor Resignation and Removal) Regulations 2014

56

56.1

The Local Audit (Auditor Resignation and Removal) Regulations 2014  are
modified as follows.

56.2

In regulation 2 (application of these Regulations to policing bodies)—

56.2.a

in paragraph (3), for “police and crime commissioner” substitute  “Combined
Authority” ;

56.2.b

in paragraph (4), for “a police and crime commissioner” substitute  “the
Combined Authority in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions” .

###### Combined Authorities (Mayors) (Filling of Vacancies) Order 2017

57

57.1

The Combined Authorities (Mayors) (Filling of Vacancies) Order 2017 is
modified as follows.

57.2

In article 4(d) (date on which vacancy occurs)—

57.2.a

in paragraph (ii), omit “or”;

57.2.b

in paragraph (iii), at the end insert  “or” ;

57.2.c

after paragraph (iii), insert—

57.2.c.iv

the mayor ceasing to hold office by virtue of section 63 (vacancy where acting
commissioner acts for 6 months) of the Police Reform and Social Responsibility
Act 2011;

.

###### Police Appeals Tribunals Rules 2020

58

58.1

The Police Appeals Tribunal Rules 2020  are modified as follows.

58.2

In rule 19(4)(c) and (d) (legal and other representation), for “relevant local
policing body” substitute  “Combined Authority” .

###### Policing Protocol Order 2023

59

59.1

The Policing Protocol Order 2023  is modified as follows.

59.2

In the Schedule—

59.2.a

in paragraph 5, for “of each PCC”, substitute  “deployed by the Combined
Authority wholly or partly in relation to the mayor’s PCC functions” ;

59.2.b

for paragraph 13, substitute—

59.2.b.13

Chief Constables are established in law as corporations sole within the 2011
Act. In doing so Chief Constables are enabled by law to employ staff and hold
funds. Chief Constables are charged with the impartial direction and control
of all constables and staff within the police force that they lead.

59.2.b.13A

The staff of the Combined Authority deployed wholly or partly in relation to
the Mayor’s PCC functions are accountable to the directly elected Mayor to
enable the Mayor to exercise their PCC functions.

;

59.2.c

in paragraph 16, for “precept” substitute  “PCC component” ;

59.2.d

in paragraph 17(d), for “precept” substitute  “PCC component” ;

59.2.e

in paragraph 24—

59.2.e.i

in sub-paragraph (a), for “precept” substitute  “PCC component” ;

59.2.e.ii

in sub-paragraph (h), for “incapacitated, resigns or is disqualified”
substitute  “suspended from the exercise of PCC functions” ;

59.2.e.iii

omit sub-paragraph (i);

59.2.f

after paragraph 24, insert—

59.2.f.24A

Complaints against the Mayor and deputy mayor for policing and crime (if that
person is a member of the Combined Authority) will be dealt with in accordance
with the Combined Authority’s existing standards regime, which operates under
local government legislation. Serious complaints and conduct matters must be
passed to the Director General of the Independent Office for Police Conduct in
line with legislation.

.

  Exclusion of legislation from application to the Combined Authority Mayor
with policing and crime functions

Article 33(3)

##### Primary legislation

1

Section 28 of the Leasehold Reform Act 1967 (retention or resumption of land
required for public purposes) .

2

The following provisions of the Local Government Act 1972 —

2.a

section 102(6) to (11) (appointment of committees);

2.b

section 223(2) (appearance of local authorities in legal proceedings);

2.c

paragraph 6ZA of Part 1 of Schedule 12 (meetings and proceedings of local
authorities).

3

Section 5(3)(baa) of the Rent (Agriculture) Act 1976 (no statutory tenancy
where landlord’s interest belongs to Crown or to local authority etc.) .

4

Section 14(1)(caa) of the Rent Act 1977 (landlord’s interest belonging to
local authority, etc.) .

5

Sections 95, 96A, 97 and 98 of the Local Government, Planning and Land Act
1980 (land held by public bodies) .

6

Sections 33 (enforceability by local authorities of certain covenants relating
to land) and 41 (lost and uncollected property) of the Local Government
(Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1982 .

7

Section 13AB(8)(f) and 13B(4)(g) of the Representation of the People Act 1983
(alteration of registers) .

8

Section 60 of the County Courts Act 1984 (right of audience) .

9

The following provisions of the Housing Act 1985 —

9.a

section 80(1) (the landlord condition);

9.b

section 157(1) (restriction on disposal of dwelling-houses in National Parks);

9.c

section 171(2) (power to extend right to buy);

9.d

section 573(1) (meaning of public sector authority);

9.e

paragraph 2(1) of Schedule 1 (tenancies which are not secure tenancies);

9.f

grounds 7 and 12 in Schedule 2 (grounds for possession of dwelling-houses let
under secure tenancies);

9.g

ground 5 in Schedule 3 (grounds for withholding consent to assignment by way
of exchange);

9.h

paragraph 7(1) of Schedule 4 (qualifying period for right to buy and
discount);

9.i

paragraph 5(1)(b) of Schedule 5 (exceptions to the right to buy).

10

Section 38 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 (minor definitions) .

11

Section 7 of the Local Government Act 1986 (transfer requires mortgagor’s
consent) .

12

Section 58 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1987 (exempt landlords and resident
landlords) .

13

Sections 111, 113, 114 and 114A of the Local Government Finance Act 1988
(financial administration) .

14

Paragraph 12(2)(g) of Schedule 1 to the Housing Act 1988 (tenancies which
cannot be assured tenancies) .

15

Section 39 of the Local Government Finance Act 1992 (precepting and precepted
authorities) .

16

Section 33 of the Value Added Tax Act 1994 (refunds of VAT in certain cases) .

17

Section 94 of the Police Act 1996 (financing of new police and crime
commissioners) .

18

Paragraph 57 of Schedule 1 to the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (public
authorities) .

19

Sections 21 and 22 of the Local Government Act 2003 (accounts) .

20

The following provisions of the Fire and Rescue Services Act 2004 —

20.a

section 3(7) and (9) (creation of combined fire and rescue authorities:
supplementary);

20.b

section 4A (power to provide for police and crime commissioner to be fire and
rescue authority);

20.c

Schedule A1 (procedure for orders under section 4A);

20.d

Schedule A2 (application of legislation relating to police and crime
commissioners).

21

The following provisions of the PRSR Act  —

21.a

section 1, subsections (1) to (4) (police and crime commissioners) ;

21.b

sections 50 to 61 (elections and vacancies);

21.c

section 69 (validity of acts);

21.d

sections 71 to 75 (elections: further provision);

21.e

section 102(3) (interpretation: police and crime commissioner’s staff);

21.f

Schedule 1, paragraphs 2, 3, 5(1), 6(1), (2), and (4), and 7 (police and crime
commissioners);

21.g

Schedule 6, paragraphs 33 to 35 (duty to nominate elected mayor to be a member
of police and crime panel);

21.h

Schedule 10 (elections: consequential amendments).

22

Paragraph 19 of Schedule 2 to the Local Audit and Accountability Act 2014
(relevant authorities) .

23

The following provisions of the Policing and Crime Act 2017 —

23.a

section 5(7)(a) and (9)(a)(collaboration agreements: definitions);

23.b

paragraph 92 of Schedule 1 (amendments to Schedule 6 of the Police Reform and
Social Responsibility Act 2011).

##### Secondary legislation

24

The Police and Crime Commissioner Elections Order 2012 .

25

The Police and Crime Commissioner Elections (Functions of Returning Officers)
Regulations 2012 .

26

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

27

The Police and Crime Commissioner Elections (Declaration of Acceptance of
Office) Order 2012 .

28

The following provisions of Schedule 2 to the Local Government Pension Scheme
Regulations 2013 (scheme employers) —

28.a

paragraph 6 of Part 1;

28.b

Part 4.

29

The Police and Crime Commissioner Elections Order 2015 .

30

Article 7 of the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster Order 2015 .

31

The Transfer of Functions (Police and Crime Commissioner Elections) Order 2015
.

32

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

33

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

34

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

  Modification of enactments in their application to the Combined Authority as
fire and rescue authority

Article 46(2)

##### Primary legislation

###### Local Government Act 1972

1

In section 138(5) of the Local Government Act 1972 (powers of principal
councils with respect to emergencies or disasters) , the reference to
“metropolitan county fire and rescue authority” is to apply as if it included
the Combined Authority as a fire and rescue authority.

###### Local Government Finance Act 1988

2

2.1

The Local Government Finance Act 1988  is modified as follows.

2.2

Section 114 (functions of responsible officer as regards reports)  applies, in
any case where the report prepared under subsection (2) or (3) of that section
relates to the fire and rescue functions of the Combined Authority, as if
subsection (4) included a requirement to provide a copy of the report to each
member of the Police, Fire and Crime Panel.

2.3

Section 115 (authority’s duties as regards reports)  applies, in any case
where a report prepared by the Mayor under subsection (1E) of that section
relates to the fire and rescue functions of the Combined Authority, as if it
included a requirement to provide a copy of the report to each member of the
Police, Fire and Crime Panel.

###### Local Government and Housing Act 1989

3

3.1

The Local Government and Housing Act 1989  is modified as follows.

3.2

Section 4 (designation and reports of head of paid service)  applies, in any
case where the report prepared under subsection (2) of that section relates to
the fire and rescue functions of the Combined Authority, as if subsection (4)
included a requirement to provide a copy of the report to the Police, Fire and
Crime Panel.

3.3

Section 5 (designation and reports of monitoring officer)  applies, in any
case where the report prepared under that section relates to the fire and
rescue functions of the Combined Authority, as if subsection (3)(b) included a
requirement to provide a copy of the report to the Police, Fire and Crime
Panel.

3.4

In section 67 (application of provisions about companies in which local
authorities have interests) subsection (3)(k)  applies as if the reference to
a joint authority established by Part IV of that Act” included a reference to
“the Combined Authority as a fire and rescue authority”.

3.5

In section 155 (emergency financial assistance to local authorities)
subsection (4)(g)  applies as if the reference to a joint authority
established by Part IV of the Local Government Act 1985” included a reference
to “the Combined Authority as a fire and rescue authority”.

###### Crime and Disorder Act 1998

4

4.1

The Crime and Disorder Act 1998  is modified as follows.

4.2

In the definition of “fire and rescue authority”, in section 5(5) (authorities
responsible for strategies) , the reference in paragraph (b) to a
“metropolitan county fire and rescue authority” is to apply as if it included
a reference to “the Combined Authority as a fire and rescue authority”.

4.3

In the definition of “relevant authority” in section 115(2) (disclosure of
information) , the reference in paragraph (j) to “a metropolitan county fire
and rescue authority” is to apply as if it included a reference to “the
Combined Authority as a fire and rescue authority”.

###### Local Government Act 2003

5

In section 23(1) of the Local Government Act 2003 (meaning of “local
authority” for purposes of Part 1)  the reference in paragraph (k) to “a joint
authority established by Part IV of that Act” is to apply as if it included a
reference to “the Combined Authority as a fire and rescue authority”.

###### Fire and Rescue Services Act 2004

6

6.1

The 2004 Act is modified as follows.

6.2

Section 4A (power to provide for police and crime commissioner to be fire and
rescue authority)  has effect as if at the end of subsection (3)(b) there were
inserted—

, and

6.2.c

outside the Area.

;

6.3

Section 4B(1) (changes to existing fire and rescue authorities) has effect as
if the reference to fire and rescue authorities in England outside Greater
London did not include the Combined Authority.

6.4

Section 28 (inspectors) of the 2004 Act applies as if for subsections (A6) to
(A8)  there were substituted—

6.4.A6

When carrying out an inspection under subsection (A3) of the Combined
Authority as fire and rescue authority, an English inspector must not review
or scrutinise decisions made, or other action taken, by the fire and rescue
authority in connection with the discharge of an excluded function.

6.4.A7

For the purposes of section (A6), the following are excluded functions—

6.4.A7.a

the function of preparing the priorities and objectives of the community risk
management plan and the fire and rescue declaration;

6.4.A7.b

the function of allocating budget for fire and rescue functions;

6.4.A7.c

any function specified in article 26 of the Fire and Rescue Authority (Police
and Crime Commissioner) (Application of Local Policing Provisions, Inspection,
Powers to Trade and Consequential Amendments) Order 2017 .

6.4.A8

In subsection (A7), “ community risk management plan ” has the meaning given
in article 2 of the York and North Yorkshire Combined Authority Order 2023.

.

###### Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009

7

Paragraph 1(3) of Schedule 5A (combined authorities: overview and scrutiny
committees and audit committees)  to the 2009 Act applies as if, at the end of
each of paragraphs (a) and (b), there were inserted “other than fire and
rescue functions of the Combined Authority in respect of which the Police,
Fire and Crime Panel has oversight functions”.

###### Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011

8

8.1

The PRSR Act is modified as follows.

8.2

Section 12(2) to (5) (annual reports) applies as if—

8.2.a

references to an elected local policing body in subsections (2) and (4) were
references to the Combined Authority as fire and rescue authority;

8.2.b

the reference to the elected local policing body in subsection (3) were to the
Mayor;

8.2.c

references to an annual report were to a fire and rescue declaration;

8.2.d

references to the relevant police and crime panel were to the Police, Fire and
Crime Panel.

8.3

Section 13 (information for police and crime panels) applies as if—

8.3.a

references to an elected local policing body in subsections (2) and (4) were
references to the Combined Authority as fire and rescue authority;

8.3.b

references to the relevant police and crime panel were to the Police, Fire and
Crime Panel.

8.4

Section 17(2), (3) and (4) (duties when carrying out functions) applies as if—

8.4.a

for subsection (2) there were substituted—

8.4.a.2

In carrying out functions in a particular financial year, the Combined
Authority as fire and rescue authority must have regard to any report or
recommendations made by the Police, Fire and Crime Panel for the previous
financial year with respect to the fire and rescue declaration (see section
28(4)).

;

8.4.b

in subsections (3) and (4), references to an elected local policing body were
to the Combined Authority as fire and rescue authority.

8.5

Section 28 (police and crime panels outside London) applies as if—

8.5.a

subsection (1) were omitted;

8.5.b

references to—

8.5.b.i

a police and crime panel;

8.5.b.ii

a police and crime panel for a police area, or

8.5.b.iii

the police and crime panel for a police area in England,

were to the Police, Fire and Crime Panel;

8.5.c

after subsection (1B) , there were inserted—

8.5.c.1C

Subsection (1D) applies if the person who is the mayor for a police area also
exercises for that area—

8.5.c.1C.a

the functions of a police and crime commissioner, and

8.5.c.1C.b

fire and rescue functions.

8.5.c.1D

The police and crime panel for the police area is to be known as “ the Police,
Fire and Crime Panel ”.

;

8.5.d

in subsection (2), the reference to the functions of the police and crime
commissioner for that police area were to the fire and rescue functions of the
Combined Authority;

8.5.e

for subsection (3) there were substituted—

8.5.e.3

The Police, Fire and Crime Panel must—

8.5.e.3.a

review any draft priorities and objectives, or the draft variation of the
priorities and objectives, given to the panel by the Mayor in accordance with
article 47 (PFCP: scrutiny of the community risk management plan) of the York
and North Yorkshire Combined Authority Order 2023, and

8.5.e.3.b

make a report or recommendations to the Mayor on the draft priorities and
objectives, or the draft variation of the priorities and objectives.

8.5.e.3A

For the purposes of subsection (3)—

8.5.e.3A.a

“ priorities and objectives ” means the Combined Authority’s priorities and
objectives in connection with the discharge of that authority’s functions as a
fire and rescue authority, as required to be set out in that authority’s
community risk management plan, and

8.5.e.3A.b

“ community risk management plan ” has the meaning given in article 2 of the
York and North Yorkshire Combined Authority Order 2023.

;

8.5.f

in subsection (4)—

8.5.f.i

references to an annual report were to a fire and rescue declaration;

8.5.f.ii

references to the police and crime commissioner were to the Mayor;

8.5.g

subsection (5) were omitted;

8.5.h

in subsection (6)—

8.5.h.i

for paragraph (a) there were substituted—

8.5.h.i.a

review or scrutinise decisions made, or other action taken, by the Combined
Authority, the Mayor or the deputy mayor for policing and crime of the
Combined Authority, or any other person in the exercise of fire and rescue
functions pursuant to arrangements made under section 107D(3) of the 2009 Act
in connection with the discharge of those fire and rescue functions,

;

8.5.h.ii

in paragraph (b), references to the relevant police and fire commissioner were
to whichever of the Combined Authority, the Mayor and the deputy mayor for
policing and crime of the Combined Authority exercises fire and rescue
functions;

8.5.h.iii

in the words following paragraph (b), “or by Schedule 1, 5 or 8” were omitted;

8.5.i

in subsection (7), references to the relevant police and crime commissioner
were to whichever of the Combined Authority, the Mayor and the deputy mayor
for policing and crime exercises fire and rescue functions;

8.5.j

in subsection (8), reference to the police area were to the Area;

8.5.k

subsection (10) were omitted.

8.6

Section 29 (power to require attendance and information) applies as if the
modifications made by paragraph 24 of Schedule 5 to the York and North
Yorkshire Combined Authority Order 2023 did not apply, and as if—

8.6.a

for subsection (1) there were substituted—

8.6.a.1

The Police, Fire and Crime Panel of the Combined Authority may require the
following to attend before it (at reasonable notice) to answer any question
which appears to the Police, Fire and Crime Panel to be necessary in order for
it to carry out its oversight functions—

8.6.a.1.a

the Mayor of the Combined Authority,

8.6.a.1.b

the deputy mayor for policing and crime for the Combined Authority,

8.6.a.1.c

staff of the Combined Authority deployed wholly or partly in relation to the
Combined Authority’s fire and rescue functions,

8.6.a.1.d

any member of the Combined Authority who exercises fire and rescue functions
by virtue of arrangements made under section 107D(3) of the Local Democracy,
Economic Development and Construction Act 2009.

;

8.6.b

for subsection (2) there were substituted—

8.6.b.2

Nothing in subsection (1) requires a person mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (d)
of that subsection to give any evidence, or produce any document, which
discloses advice given by them to any other person mentioned in paragraphs
(a), (b) or (d).

;

8.6.c

in subsection (3)—

8.6.c.i

references to a police and crime panel were to the Police, Fire and Crime
Panel;

8.6.c.ii

references to the relevant police and crime commissioner were to the Mayor;

8.6.d

for subsections (4) and (5) there were substituted—

8.6.d.4

A person mentioned in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d) of subsection (1) must
comply with any requirement imposed on them in accordance with subsection (1)
or (3).

;

8.6.e

for subsection (6), there were substituted—

8.6.e.6

If the Police, Fire and Crime Panel requires the Mayor or the deputy mayor for
policing and crime to attend before the Panel, the Panel may (at reasonable
notice) request the chief fire officer for the Area to attend before the Panel
on the same occasion to answer any question which appears to the Panel to be
necessary in order for it to carry out its functions.

.

8.7

In Schedule 1, paragraph 9 (scrutiny of senior appointments) applies as if the
modification made by paragraph 32(e) of Schedule 5 to the York and North
Yorkshire Combined Authority Order 2023did not apply and as if—

8.7.a

references to the police and crime commissioner were to the Mayor;

8.7.b

references to the relevant police and crime panel were to the Police, Fire and
Crime Panel;

8.7.c

the reference to criteria in sub-paragraph (2)(b) included criteria relevant
to the exercise, by the candidate, of fire and rescue functions.

8.8

In Schedule 6—

8.8.a

paragraph 4 (membership and status)  applies as if for sub-paragraph (6) there
were substituted—

8.8.a.6

The Police, Fire and Crime Panel may not exercise any functions other than
those conferred by this Act, by, or by virtue of the Fire and Rescue Services
Act 2004, or by, or by virtue of, the York and North Yorkshire Combined
Authority Order 2023 .

;

8.8.b

paragraph 27 (special functions)  applies as if the special functions
mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) of that paragraph included the following
functions conferred on the Police, Fire and Crime Panel by, or by virtue of,
the York and North Yorkshire Combined Authority Order 2023—

8.8.b.i

scrutiny of the priorities and objectives of the community risk management
plan;

8.8.b.ii

scrutiny of the fire and rescue declaration;

8.8.b.iii

scrutiny of the allocation of budget;

8.8.b.iv

scrutiny of the appointment of a chief fire officer;

8.8.c

in paragraph 32A  (duty to produce panel with fire and rescue expertise), sub-
paragraphs (2) to (4) apply in relation to the Police, Fire and Crime Panel.

##### Secondary legislation

###### Pipelines Safety Regulations 1996

9

In the Pipelines Safety Regulations 1996 , in paragraph (a) of the definition
of “local authority” in regulation 2(1) (interpretation) the reference to a
“metropolitan county fire and rescue authority” is to apply as if it included
a reference to “the Combined Authority as a fire and rescue authority”.

###### Local Government (Best Value Authorities) (Power to Trade) (England) Order 2009

10

In the Local Government (Best Value Authorities) (Power to Trade) (England)
Order 2009 , in article 1(2) the reference in paragraph (c) to “a metropolitan
county fire and rescue authority” is to apply as if it included a reference to
“the Combined Authority as a fire and rescue authority”.

###### Community Right to Challenge (Fire and Rescue Authorities and Rejection of Expressions of Interest) (England) Regulations 2012

11

In the Community Right to Challenge (Fire and Rescue Authorities and Rejection
of Expressions of Interest) (England) Regulations 2012 , in regulation 3
(relevant authorities) the reference in paragraph (a) to “a metropolitan
county fire and rescue authority established under section 26 of the Local
Government Act 1985” is to apply as if it included a reference to “the
Combined Authority as a fire and rescue authority”.

###### Local Government Pension Scheme Regulations 2013

12

The Local Government Pension Scheme Regulations 2013  have effect as if, after
paragraph (8) of regulation 64, there were inserted—

12.8A

Paragraph (8B) applies where the exiting employer is the FRA and the
liabilities of the fund in respect of benefits due to the FRA’s current and
former employees (or those of any predecessor authority) have been or are to
be transferred to the Combined Authority by virtue of the York and North
Yorkshire Combined Authority Order 2023.

12.8B

Where this paragraph applies, no exit payment is due under paragraph (1) and
paragraph (2) does not apply.

.

###### Explosives Regulations 2014

13

In regulation 2(1) of the Explosives Regulations 2014 (interpretation) , in
the definition of “local authority” the reference in paragraph (c) to “a
metropolitan county fire and rescue authority” is to apply as if it included a
reference to “the Combined Authority as a fire and rescue authority”.

###### Control of Major Accident Hazards Regulations 2015

14

In regulation 2(1) of the Control of Major Accident Hazards Regulations 2015 ,
paragraph (b) of the definition of “local authority” is to apply as if for
sub-paragraph (ii) there were substituted—

14.ii

the Area, the Combined Authority as a fire and rescue authority;

.

###### Fire and Rescue Authority (Police and Crime Commissioner) (Application of Local Policing Provisions, Inspection, Powers to Trade and Consequential Amendments) Order 2017

15

In the Fire and Rescue Authority (Police and Crime Commissioner) (Application
of Local Policing Provisions, Inspection, Powers to Trade and Consequential
Amendments) Order 2017 , articles 3 to 23 apply as if—

15.a

references to “the Authority”, other than the reference in article 21(3)(c),
were to the Mayor in the exercise of the fire and rescue functions of the
Combined Authority;

15.b

references to the police and crime panel were to the Police, Fire and Crime
Panel;

15.c

in article 6(8) (panel to review and report on proposed appointment of chief
fire officer)—

15.c.i

in sub-paragraph (a), for “ordinary election of a police and crime
commissioner under section 50 of the Police Reform and Social Responsibility
Act 2011” there were substituted  “election for the return of the Mayor” ;

15.c.ii

in sub-paragraph (b)—

15.c.ii.aa

for “police and crime commissioner” there were substituted  “Mayor” ;

15.c.ii.bb

for “that Act” there were substituted  “the Police Reform and Social
Responsibility Act 2011” ;

15.d

in article 21(3)(c) (response to representations regarding proposal to dismiss
chief fire officer) the reference to the head of the Authority’s paid service
were a reference to the Combined Authority’s head of paid service.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order establishes the York and North Yorkshire Combined Authority (“
the Combined Authority ”), provides for the election of a Mayor and the
conferral of functions of local authorities and other public authorities on
the Combined Authority.

  Part 6 of the Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act
2009 (“ the 2009 Act ”) provides for the establishment of combined authorities
for the areas of two or more local authorities in England. Combined
authorities are bodies corporate which may be given power to exercise
specified functions in their area.

  The Secretary of State may only establish a combined authority for an area
where a scheme for such an authority has been published under section 109 of
the 2009 Act. This Order has been made following the publication of such a
scheme on 21st October 2022 by the constituent councils whose areas together
make up the area of the new combined authority.

  Part 2 of the Order provides for the creation of the Combined Authority, the
election of a Mayor, appointment of a political advisor and makes
constitutional provision.

  Part 3 of the Order confers on the Combined Authority functions in relation
to housing and regeneration which are to be exercised concurrently with the
Homes and Communities Agency. It also makes provision about the acquisition
and appropriation of land for planning and public purposes. Article 9 and
Schedule 2 apply and modify relevant provisions in legislation.

  Part 4 of the Order confers on the Combined Authority functions
corresponding to those of the Mayor of London in relation to the designation
of a Mayoral development area. Schedule 3 to the Order modifies Part 8 of and
Schedule 21 to the Localism Act 2011 which make provision about the
establishment of a Mayoral development corporation, its objects and powers as
well as its constitution and governance.

  Part 5 of the Order confers on the Combined Authority functions relating to
transport. It transfers functions relating to local transport planning and
public transport from the local authorities to the Combined Authority and
makes provision for specified highways and traffic powers held by the local
authorities to be exercised concurrently by the Combined Authority. It confers
powers for the Mayor to pay grants, including to bus service operators.

  Part 6 confers a number of additional functions (data sharing and assessment
of economic conditions) to be exercisable by the Combined Authority. The
conferred functions are to be exercised concurrently with the constituent
councils. It also makes incidental provision.

  Part 7 of the Order sets out the functions of the Combined Authority which
are to be only exercisable by the Mayor and makes provision in relation to
Joint Committees.

  Part 8 of the Order makes provision for the funding, by the constituent
councils, of those costs of the Combined Authority that relate to the exercise
of its functions. Article 30 provides that the Combined Authority is to have
in relation to its area functions corresponding to the functions that the
Greater London Authority has under the Business Rate Supplements Act 2009 to
levy a supplement on business rates to raise money for expenditure on a
project which will promote economic development in its area.

  Part 9 of the Order makes provision for the Mayor for the area of the
Combined Authority to exercise functions of a Police and Crime Commissioner (“
PCC ”). The role of PCC for North Yorkshire is abolished. Article 33 provides
that, in relation to the Mayor’s PCC functions, the Mayor is to be treated as
a PCC for the purposes of all legislation affecting PCCs. Schedule 5 sets out
certain modifications to legislation in its application to the Mayor and
Schedule 6 sets out legislation which does not apply. Provision is also made
in connection with the transfer of functions, in particular in relation to
transfer of property, rights and liabilities.

  Part 10 of the Order provides for the transfer of fire and rescue functions
to the Combined Authority, to be exercised by the Mayor. The Combined
Authority becomes the fire and rescue authority for the area for the purposes
of the Fire and Rescue Services Act 2004. The North Yorkshire Police, Fire and
Crime Commissioner Fire and Rescue Authority is abolished. Articles 43 to 49
set out the arrangements which the Mayor may make for the exercise of the fire
and rescue functions by the deputy mayor for policing and crime or a committee
of the Combined Authority, and for oversight by the police and crime panel.
Schedule 7 makes connected modifications to legislation.

  A full regulatory impact assessment has not been prepared as this instrument
will have no impact on the costs of the business and voluntary sector. The
impact on the public sector is that conferring functions on the Combined
Authority should lead to operational efficiencies that could lead to reduced
costs.

