Title: The Parliamentary Elections and Recall Petition (Welsh Forms) (Amendment) Order 2023
Date: 2024-06-07
Description: This Order amends the Parliamentary Elections (Welsh Forms) Order 2007 (S.I. 2007/1014) and the Recall Petition (Welsh Forms) Order 2022 (S.I. 2022/1405) by updating a number of forms used at parliamentary elections and recall petitions in Wales, following amendments made to the equivalent English versions of those forms made by or as a result of Schedule 4 to the Elections Act 2022 (c. 37) (proxy voting: limits and transitional provision). Schedule 1 contains transitional and savings provisions.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/1137

## The Parliamentary Elections and Recall Petition (Welsh Forms) (Amendment) Order 2023

    Representation Of The People, Wales

  Made   25th October 2023

  Laid before Parliament   26th October 2023

  Coming into force in accordance with article 1(2) and (3)

      The Secretary of State makes the following Order in exercise of the
powers conferred by section 26(2) of the Welsh Language Act 1993 , as applied
by section 22 of the Representation of the People Act 1985  and section 21(5)
of the Recall of MPs Act 2015 .

### Citation, commencement, extent, and transitional and savings provisions


1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Parliamentary Elections and Recall Petition
(Welsh Forms) (Amendment) Order 2023.

1.2

Subject to paragraph (3), this Order comes into force on 31st October 2023.

1.3

The following come into force on 31st January 2024—

1.3.a

in article 2, paragraph (3) and, so far as it substitutes form 5 and form 7,
paragraph (4);

1.3.b

article 3, so far as it substitutes form D and form F;

1.3.c

in Schedule 1, paragraphs 2(1), 3(1) and 6(1).

1.4

This Order extends to England and Wales.

1.5

The transitional and savings provisions in Schedule 1 have effect.

### Amendment of the Parliamentary Elections (Welsh Forms) Order 2007


2

2.1

The Parliamentary Elections (Welsh Forms) Order 2007  is amended as follows.

2.2

In article 6 (Welsh and English versions of prescribed forms and a form of
words), in paragraph (1)(k), for “E” substitute  “E1” .

2.3

In Schedule 1 (Welsh version of prescribed forms and a form of words), for
form 2 (Welsh form of questions set out in the table in rule 35 of Schedule 1
to the Representation of the People Act 1983 ) substitute the corresponding
form set out in Part 1 of Schedule 2 to this Order.

2.4

In Schedule 2 (Welsh and English versions of prescribed forms and a form of
words), for form 5 (official poll card), form 7 (official proxy poll card) and
form 11 (proxy paper) substitute the corresponding forms in Part 2 of Schedule
2 to this Order.

### Amendment of the Recall Petition (Welsh Forms) Order 2022


3

In Part 1 of the Schedule to the Recall Petition (Welsh Forms) Order 2022 ,
for form D (official petition notice for an elector who may sign the petition
in person), form F (official petition notice for a proxy who may sign the
petition in person) and form J (proxy paper) substitute the corresponding form
in Schedule 3 to this Order.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing
and Communities       Jacob Young   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State
Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities     25th October 2023

  Transitional and savings provisions

Article 1(5)

##### Provisions related to parliamentary elections


###### Interpretation of Part 1


1

In this Part—

      “ 2007 Order ” means the Parliamentary Elections (Welsh Forms) Order
2007;           “ ongoing parliamentary election ” means a relevant
parliamentary election for which the date of poll as stated in the notice of
election is on or after 31st January 2024;           “ relevant parliamentary
election ” means a parliamentary election for which the notice of election is
published in accordance with rule 5 of Schedule 1 to the Representation of the
People Act 1983  on or before 30th January 2024.

###### Questions for proxies at certain parliamentary elections


2

2.1

The amendments made by article 2(3) do not apply in respect of an ongoing
parliamentary election.

2.2

In respect of a relevant parliamentary election, Schedule 2 to the 2007 Order
applies as if for form 2 (Welsh form of questions set out in the table in rule
35 of Schedule 1 to the Representation of the People Act 1983) there were
substituted the form set out in Part 2 of this Schedule.

###### Poll card forms for certain parliamentary elections


3

3.1

The amendments made by article 2(4), so far as that article substitutes forms
5 and 7, do not apply in respect of an ongoing parliamentary election.

3.2

In respect of a relevant parliamentary election—

3.2.a

form 5 (official poll card) and form 7 (official proxy poll card) in Schedule
2 to the 2007 Order apply as if, on the front of the form—

3.2.a.i

before the text in English that begins “vote as a proxy at this election”
there were inserted “(in the case of a proxy appointed before 31st October
2023)”;

3.2.a.ii

before the text in Welsh that begins “i bleidleisio fel dirprwy yn yr
etholiad” there were inserted “(yn achos dirprwy a benodwyd cyn 31 Hydref
2023)”;

3.2.b

form 6 (official postal poll card) and form 8 (official proxy postal poll
card) in Schedule 2 to the 2007 Order apply as if, on the back of the form—

3.2.b.i

before the text in English that begins “vote as a proxy at this election”
there were inserted “(in the case of a proxy appointed before 31st October
2023)”;

3.2.b.ii

before the text in Welsh that begins “i bleidleisio fel dirprwy yn yr
etholiad” there were inserted “(yn achos dirprwy a benodwyd cyn 31 Hydref
2023)”.

3.3

Sub-paragraph (4) applies in respect of a parliamentary election for which—

3.3.a

the notice of election is published in accordance with rule 5 of Schedule 1 to
the Representation of the People Act 1983 on or after 31st January 2024, and

3.3.b

the date of poll stated in that notice is on or before 1st May 2024.

3.4

Form 6 (official postal poll card) and Form 8 (official proxy postal poll
card) in Schedule 2 to the 2007 Order apply as if, on the back of the form—

3.4.a

for the text in English which begins with “vote as a proxy at this election”
and ends with “grandchild” there were substituted—

(in the case of a proxy appointed on or after 31st October 2023), vote as a
proxy on behalf of more than four electors, of which no more than two may be
on behalf of other domestic electors (a domestic elector is one who is not an
overseas or service elector)

;

3.4.b

for the text in Welsh which begins with “i bleidleisio fel dirprwy” and ends
with “neu wyres” there were substituted—

(Yn achos dirprwy a benodwyd ar neu ar ôl 31 Hydref 2023), pleidleisio fel
dirprwy ar ran mwy na phedwar etholwr, na all mwy na day ohonynt fod ar ran
etholwyr domestig eraill (etholwr domestig yw un and yw’n etholwr dramor nac
yn etholwr sy’n gwasanaethu yn y lluoedd arfog)

.

###### Proxy paper form for certain proxy appointments


4

4.1

This paragraph applies where a proxy appointment is made during the period—

4.1.a

beginning with 31st October 2023, and

4.1.b

ending with 5th March 2024.

4.2

Form 11 (proxy paper) in Schedule 2 to the 2007 Order, as substituted by
article 2(4), applies as if, on the second page, in note 1—

4.2.a

before “on behalf of more than four electors” there were inserted “(in
relation to an election or referendum for which the poll is on or after 5th
March 2024)”;

4.2.b

before “ar ran mwy na phedwar etholwr” there were inserted “(mewn perthynas ag
etholiad neu refferendwm y mae’r dyddiad pleidleisio ar ei gyfer ar neu ar ôl
5 Mawrth 2024)”.

4.3

In this paragraph, “ proxy appointment ” has the same meaning as in paragraph
8(8) of Schedule 4 to the Elections Act 2022 .

##### Welsh form of statutory questions for parliamentary elections for which notice of election is published on or before 30th January 2024






##### Provisions related to recall petitions


###### Interpretation of Part 3


5

In this Part—

      “ 2022 Order ” means the Recall Petition (Welsh Forms) Order 2022;
“ ongoing recall petition ” means a relevant recall petition for which at
least part of the signing period is on or after 31st January 2024;           “
recall petition ” has the meaning given in section 1(2) of the Recall of MPs
Act 2015;           “ relevant recall petition ” means a recall petition for
which the Speaker’s notice is given in accordance with section 5(1) and (5)(a)
of the Recall of MPs Act 2015 on or before 30th January 2024;           “
signing period ” has the meaning given in section 9(2) of the Recall of MPs
Act 2015.

###### Official petition notice forms for certain recall petitions


6

6.1

The amendments made by article 3, so far as they substitute forms D and F in
Part 1 of the Schedule to the 2022 Order, do not apply in respect of an
ongoing recall petition.

6.2

Form D (official petition notice for an elector who may sign the petition in
person) and form G (official petition notice for a proxy who may sign the
petition by post) in Part 1 of the Schedule to the 2022 Order apply in respect
of a relevant recall petition as if, on the fourth page of the form—

6.2.a

in the text in English that begins “Sign the petition as a proxy for more than
two people”, for “Sign” substitute  “(In the case of a proxy appointed before
31st October 2023) sign” ;

6.2.b

in the text in Welsh that begins “Llofnodi’r ddeiseb fel dirprwy ar ran mwy na
dau berson”, for “Llofnodi’r” substitute  “(Ynachosdirprwy a benodwyd cyn 31
Hydref 2023) llofnodi’r” .

6.3

Form E (official petition notice for an elector who may sign the petition by
post) in Part 1 of the Schedule to the 2022 Order applies in respect of a
relevant recall petition as if, on the final page of the form—

6.3.a

in the text in English that begins “Sign the petition as a proxy for more than
two people”, for “Sign” substitute  “(In the case of a proxy appointed before
31st October 2023) sign” ;

6.3.b

in the text in Welsh that begins “Llofnodi’r ddeiseb fel dirprwy ar ran mwy na
dau berson”, for “Llofnodi’r” substitute  “(Ynachosdirprwy a benodwyd cyn 31
Hydref 2023) llofnodi’r” .

6.4

Form F (official petition notice for a proxy who may sign the petition in
person) in Part 1 of the Schedule to the 2022 Order applies in respect of a
relevant recall petition as if, on the fifth page of the form—

6.4.a

in the text in English that begins “Sign the petition as a proxy for more than
two people”, for “Sign” substitute  “(In the case of a proxy appointed before
31st October 2023) sign” ;

6.4.b

in the text in Welsh that begins “Llofnodi’r ddeiseb fel dirprwy ar ran mwy na
dau berson”, for “Llofnodi’r” substitute  “(Ynachosdirprwy a benodwyd cyn 31
Hydref 2023) llofnodi’r” .

6.5

Sub-paragraphs (6) and (7) apply only in the case of a recall petition for
which—

6.5.a

the Speaker’s notice is given in accordance with section 5(1) of the Recall of
MPs Act 2015 on or after 31st January 2024, and

6.5.b

the date for the beginning of the signing period for that petition is on or
before 1st May 2024.

6.6

Form E (official petition notice for an elector who may sign the petition by
post) in Part 1 of the Schedule to the 2022 Order applies as if, on the final
page of the form—

6.6.a

for the text in English that begins with “Sign the petition as a proxy for
more than two people” and ends with “grandchild” there were substituted—

(In the case of a proxy appointed on or after 31st October 2023), sign the
petition as a proxy on behalf of more than four people, of which no more than
two may be on behalf of other domestic electors (a domestic elector is one who
is not an overseas or service elector)

;

6.6.b

for the text in Welsh that begins with “Llofnodi’r ddeiseb fel dirprwy ar ran
mwy” and ends with “neu wyres iddynt” there were substituted—

(Yn achos dirprwy a benodwyd ar neu ar ôl 31 Hydref 2023), llofnodwch y
ddeiseb fel dirprwy ar ran mwy na phedwar etholwr, na all mwy na day ohonynt
fod ar ran etholwyr domestig eraill (etholwr domestig yw un and yw’n etholwr
dramor nac yn etholwr sy’n gwasanaethu yn y lluoedd arfog)

.

6.7

Form G (official petition notice for a proxy who may sign the petition by
post) in Part 1 of the Schedule to the 2022 Order applies as if, on the fourth
page of the form—

6.7.a

for the text in English that begins with “Sign the petition as a proxy for
more than two people” and ends with “grandchild” there were substituted—

(In the case of a proxy appointed on or after 31st October 2023), sign the
petition as a proxy on behalf of more than four people, of which no more than
two may be on behalf of other domestic electors (a domestic elector is one who
is not an overseas or service elector)

;

6.7.b

for the text in Welsh that begins with “Llofnodi’r ddeiseb fel dirprwy ar ran
mwy” and ends with “neu wyres iddynt” there were substituted—

(Yn achos dirprwy a benodwyd ar neu ar ôl 31 Hydref 2023), llofnodwch y
ddeiseb fel dirprwy ar ran mwy na phedwar etholwr, na all mwy na day ohonynt
fod ar ran etholwyr domestig eraill (etholwr domestig yw un and yw’n etholwr
dramor nac yn etholwr sy’n gwasanaethu yn y lluoedd arfog)

.

###### Proxy paper form for certain proxy appointments


7

7.1

This paragraph applies where a proxy appointment is made during the period—

7.1.a

beginning with 31st October 2023, and

7.1.b

ending with 25th March 2024.

7.2

Form J (proxy paper) in Part 1 of the Schedule to the 2022 Order, as
substituted by article 3, applies as if in note 1—

7.2.a

before “on behalf of more than four electors” there were inserted “(in
relation to a petition for which the end of the signing period is on or after
25th March 2024)”;

7.2.b

before “ar ran mwy na phedward etholwr” there were inserted “(mewn perthynas â
deiseb y mae diwedd y cyfnod llofnodi ar ei chyfer ar neu ar ôl 25 Mawrth
2024)”.

7.3

In this paragraph, “ proxy appointment ” means an appointment resulting from
an application under regulation 51(2) or (6) or 53(2), (3) or (4)(b) of the
Recall of MPs Act 2015 (Recall Petition) Regulations 2016 .

  New forms: Parliamentary Elections (Welsh Forms) Order 2007

Article 2(3), (4)

##### Form 2: Welsh version of questions set out in the table in rule 35 in Schedule 1 to the Representation of the People Act 1983








##### Welsh and English versions of prescribed forms


  Form 5 (official poll card)

  Front of card

  Rear of card

  Form 7 (official proxy poll card)

  Front of card

  Rear of card

  Form 11 (proxy paper)

  First page

  Second page

  Final page

  New forms: Recall Petition (Welsh Forms) Order 2022

Article 3

  Form D (official petition notice for an elector who may sign the petition in
person)

  First page

  Second page

  Third page

  Fourth page

  Fifth page

  Final page

  Form F (official petition notice for a proxy who may sign the petition in
person)

  First page

  Second page

  Third page

  Fourth page

  Fifth page

  Final page

  Form J (proxy paper)

  First page

  Final page

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order amends the Parliamentary Elections (Welsh Forms) Order 2007 (
S.I. 2007/1014 ) and the Recall Petition (Welsh Forms) Order 2022 ( S.I.
2022/1405 ) by updating a number of forms used at parliamentary elections and
recall petitions in Wales, following amendments made to the equivalent English
versions of those forms made by or as a result of Schedule 4 to the Elections
Act  2022 (c. 37)  (proxy voting: limits and transitional provision). Schedule
1 contains transitional and savings provisions.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no
impact on the private or voluntary sectors is foreseen.

