Title: The Gas Safety (Management) (Amendment) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-04-02
Description: These Regulations amend the Gas Safety (Management) Regulations 1996 (S.I. 1996/551) (“the 1996 Regulations”). The 1996 Regulations provide for the preparation and acceptance of safety cases in respect of the conveyance of gas in a network and impose requirements in respect of gas escapes and the composition and pressure of gas. With one exception, these Regulations come into force on 6th April 2023.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/284

## The Gas Safety (Management) (Amendment) Regulations 2023

    Health And Safety

  Made   7th March 2023

  Laid before Parliament   9th March 2023

  Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1(2) and (3)

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 15(1), (2) and (4)(a), 43(2), (4), (5) and (6) and
82(3)(a) of, and paragraphs 1(1)(c), 15(1), 16 and 21(a) of Schedule 3 to, the
Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974 (“ the Act ”) .           These
Regulations give effect without modifications to proposals submitted to the
Secretary of State by the Health and Safety Executive under section 11(3) of
the Act. Before submitting the proposals, the Health and Safety Executive
consulted the Office for Nuclear Regulation  and such other bodies as appeared
to be appropriate as required by section 50(3) of the Act.

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Gas Safety (Management) (Amendment)
Regulations 2023.

1.2

  Regulation 14(2)(a)(v)   comes into force on 6th April 2025.

1.3

Otherwise, these Regulations come into force on 6th April 2023.

1.4

Any amendment made by these Regulations has the same extent as the provision
amended.

### Amendment of the Gas Safety (Management) Regulations 1996

2

The Gas Safety (Management) Regulations 1996  are amended in accordance with
regulations  3  to  14 .

### Amendment of regulation 2

3

3.1

Regulation 2 (interpretation) is amended as follows.

3.2

In paragraph (1)—

3.2.a

omit the definition of “the 1994 Regulations”;

3.2.b

after that definition insert—

      “ the 1998 Regulations ” means the Gas Safety (Installation and Use)
Regulations 1998 ;           “biogas” and “biomethane” have the meanings given
in section 100(3) of the Energy Act 2008 ;           “ biomethane production
facility ” means a facility for the production of biomethane from biogas ;

;

3.2.c

in the following definitions, for “the 1994 Regulations” substitute  “the 1998
Regulations” —

3.2.c.i

“distribution main”;

3.2.c.ii

“emergency control”;

3.2.c.iii

“gas fittings”;

3.2.c.iv

“installation pipework”;

3.2.c.v

“service pipe”;

3.2.d

after the definition of “emergency control” insert—

      “ emergency reporting service provider ” is to be construed in
accordance with paragraphs (3A) and (3B) of regulation 3;

;

3.2.e

after the definition of “interconnector” insert—

      “ LNG facility ” means a facility for the reception and regasification
of liquid natural gas and any activity, including temporary storage of gas or
liquid gas, which is necessary for that reception or regasification.

.

3.3

In paragraph (2), after “a gas processing facility” insert  “, a biomethane
production facility, an LNG facility” .

3.4

In paragraph (4)—

3.4.a

after “gas”, in the first place it occurs, insert  “(other than biogas or any
gas produced from biogas)” ;

3.4.b

after “a gas processing facility”, insert  “, or an LNG facility,” ;

3.4.c

for the words from “, any pipes” to the end substitute—

—

3.4.c.a

any pipes used exclusively for conveying gas (other than biogas or gas
produced from biogas) from that facility to the point where the gas is treated
or blended or to non-domestic premises (or to both) are not to be treated as
part of a network for the purposes of these Regulations;

3.4.c.b

any pipes used exclusively for conveying gas (including biogas or gas produced
from biogas) from that facility to the point where the gas is treated or
blended or to non-domestic premises (or to both) are not to be treated as part
of a network for the purposes of these Regulations at any time when they are
being used to convey gas which is not biogas or produced from biogas.

.

3.5

After paragraph (10) insert—

3.5.10A

In these Regulations any reference, in relation to a network, to an emergency
reporting service provider is a reference to an emergency reporting service
provider who has prepared and had accepted a safety case relating to that
network pursuant to regulation 3(3A).

.

### Amendment of regulation 3

4

4.1

Regulation 3 (duties on persons conveying gas) is amended as follows.

4.2

In paragraph (1)—

4.2.a

omit “and” at the end of sub-paragraph (a);

4.2.b

after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

4.2.b.aa

there is a sole emergency reporting service provider for the network; and

.

4.3

After paragraph (3) insert—

4.3.3A

For the purposes of these Regulations, an “emergency reporting service
provider” is a person who has prepared a safety case containing the
particulars specified in Schedule 2A and has had that safety case accepted by
the Executive.

4.3.3B

Where an emergency reporting service provider has given written notice to the
Executive and all persons who are conveying gas in the network that they no
longer intend to act in that capacity, that person ceases to be an emergency
reporting service provider on the relevant date.

4.3.3C

For the purposes of paragraph (3B) “ the relevant date ” means—

4.3.3C.a

the date specified in the written notice given by the person, which may not be
before the end of the period of two years beginning with the date on which the
notice is given; or

4.3.3C.b

if earlier, the date on which another person who has prepared a safety case in
relation to the relevant network containing the particulars specified in
Schedule 2A has their safety case accepted by the Executive.

.

4.4

In paragraph (4), after “co-ordinator” insert  “or the emergency reporting
service provider (or both)” .

### Amendment of regulation 5

5

In regulation 5 (duty to conform with safety case), in paragraph (1), after
“co-ordinator” insert  “or an emergency reporting service provider” .

### Amendment of regulation 6

6

6.1

Regulation 6 (co-operation) is amended as follows.

6.2

In paragraph (1), for “and with a network emergency co-ordinator” substitute
“, with a network emergency co-ordinator and with any emergency reporting
service provider” .

6.3

In paragraph (2)—

6.3.a

in sub-paragraph (c), after “gas” insert  “or an emergency reporting service
provider” ;

6.3.b

after sub-paragraph (c) insert—

6.3.b.ca

an emergency reporting service provider in relation to a person conveying gas
or a network emergency co-ordinator;

;

6.3.c

in sub-paragraph (h)—

6.3.c.i

after “a gas production facility” insert  “, a biomethane production facility”
;

6.3.c.ii

after “a storage facility” insert  “, an LNG facility” .

### Amendment of regulation 7

7

7.1

Regulation 7 (gas escapes and investigations) is amended as follows.

7.2

For paragraph 1 substitute—

7.2.1

An emergency reporting service provider—

7.2.1.a

must provide a continuously staffed telephone service for enabling persons to
report an escape of gas from a network or from a gas fitting supplied with gas
from a relevant network, and

7.2.1.b

may provide other continuously staffed means for enabling persons to report
such an escape to it.

7.2.1A

In this regulation “ relevant network ”, in relation to an emergency reporting
service provider (“ N ”), means—

7.2.1A.a

the network for which N is the emergency reporting service provider, or

7.2.1A.b

where N is the emergency reporting service provider for two or more networks,
any of the networks for which N is the emergency reporting service provider,

and references to a “relevant service provider” are to be construed
accordingly.

7.2.1B

The telephone service provided for the purposes of paragraph (1)(a) must be
contactable within Great Britain by the use of one telephone number.

7.2.1C

Where the emergency reporting service provider is not the same for all
networks—

7.2.1C.a

the emergency reporting service providers must ensure, for the purposes of
paragraph (1)(a), that they are all contactable within Great Britain by the
use of the same telephone number, and

7.2.1C.b

where an emergency reporting service provider (“ E ”) also provides other
means for enabling persons to report gas escapes to it, E must have in place
arrangements to ensure that any gas escape notified to E which concerns a
network for which E is not the emergency reporting service provider is
notified forthwith to the relevant emergency reporting service provider.

.

7.3

In paragraph (2) for “Where British Gas p.l.c” substitute  “If an emergency
reporting service provider” .

7.4

In paragraph (3) for “British Gas p.l.c” substitute  “the emergency reporting
service provider for the relevant network” .

7.5

After paragraph (3) insert—

7.5.3A

But paragraph (3) does not apply if the person who discovers or is notified of
the escape of gas is the emergency reporting service provider for that
network.

.

7.6

In paragraph (8) for “British Gas p.l.c” substitute  “the emergency reporting
service provider for the network from which the premises are supplied with
gas” .

7.7

After paragraph (8) insert—

7.7.8A

But paragraph (8) does not apply if the responsible person is the emergency
reporting service provider for that network.

.

7.8

In paragraph (11)—

7.8.a

in the words before sub-paragraph (a)—

7.8.a.i

after “conveying gas” insert  “(“ C ”)” ;

7.8.a.ii

for “his behalf” substitute  “C’s behalf” ;

7.8.a.iii

for “he does” substitute  “C does” ;

7.8.b

in sub-paragraph (a)—

7.8.b.i

for “he” substitute  “C” ;

7.8.b.ii

for “British Gas p.l.c” substitute  “the emergency reporting service provider
for the network” ;

7.8.c

in sub-paragraph (b), for “the person conveying the gas”, in both places it
occurs, substitute  “C” .

7.9

After paragraph (11) insert—

7.9.11A

But paragraph (11)(a) does not apply where C is the emergency reporting
service provider for that network.

.

7.10

In paragraph (17)(a), for “the 1994 Regulations” substitute  “the 1998
Regulations” .

### Amendment of regulation 8

8

8.1

Regulation 8 (content and other characteristics of gas) is amended as follows.

8.2

In paragraph (1), for “paragraphs (2) to (4)” substitute  “paragraphs (1A) to
(4)” .

8.3

After paragraph (1) insert—

8.3.1A

A person may convey out of specification biogas from a relevant facility in a
relevant pipe for treatment or blending so as to bring it into conformity with
those requirements.

8.3.1B

For the purposes of paragraph (1A)—

      “ out of specification biogas ” means gas which—         is biogas or
produced from biogas, and           does not conform with the requirements
specified in Part 1 of Schedule 3;                 “ relevant facility ” means
a biomethane production facility or a gas processing facility;           “
relevant pipe ” means a pipe used exclusively for conveying gas (including out
of specification biogas) to—         the point where the gas is treated or
blended, or           that point and non-domestic premises.

.

8.4

After paragraph (5) insert—

8.4.6

But paragraph (5) does not apply in respect of any out of specification biogas
which is conveyed in a relevant pipe as permitted by paragraph (1A).

.

### Transitional provisions

9

For regulation 10 substitute—

####### Pipes used to convey biogas or gas made from biogas: transitional provisions

9.10

9.10.1

A BPF pipe transporter (“ B ”) may continue to convey gas in a BPF pipe on and
after 6th April 2023 despite the fact that B does not have a safety case
prepared pursuant to regulation 3(1)(a) which has been accepted by the
Executive.

9.10.2

But paragraph (1) ceases to apply to B—

9.10.2.a

on 6th October 2024, if B has not prepared a safety case pursuant to
regulation 3(1)(a) and sent it to the Executive before that date;

9.10.2.b

if the Executive rejects the safety case prepared by B pursuant to regulation
3(1)(a), on the date on which the Executive rejects B’s safety case (whether
this date is before or after 6th October 2024).

9.10.3

In this regulation—

      “ BPF pipe transporter ” means a person who, immediately before 6th
April 2023—         is conveying gas in a BPF pipe; and           is not
conveying gas in any part of any existing network to which the BPF pipe is
connected;                 “ BPF pipe ” means a pipe conveying gas from a
biomethane production facility which, immediately before 6th April 2023—
is connected to an existing network; but           is not treated as part of
that network for the purposes of these Regulations;                 “ existing
network ” means a network within the meaning of these Regulations as they had
effect immediately before 6th April 2023.

####### Transitional provisions: emergency reporting service provider safety case

9.10A

9.10A.1

This regulation applies where, immediately before 6th April 2023, a person (“
P ”) has an accepted EHP safety case.

9.10A.2

P’s accepted EHP safety case is to be treated, on and after 6th April 2023, as
if it had been prepared pursuant to, and accepted by the Executive under,
regulation 3(3A).

9.10A.3

Accordingly, on 6th April 2023, P becomes the emergency reporting service
provider for each network.

9.10A.4

Regulation 4 applies in relation to P as if the requirement in paragraph (3)
of that regulation to make a thorough review of the contents of its accepted
EHP safety case every three years were a requirement to—

9.10A.4.a

make a thorough review of the accepted EHP safety case by the end of the
period of three years beginning with the day on which P last reviewed that
safety case, and

9.10A.4.b

at least every three years thereafter.

9.10A.5

Nothing in this regulation prevents P from giving written notice for the
purposes of regulation 3(3B) on or after 6th April 2023 in relation to any or
all of the networks.

9.10A.6

In this regulation “ accepted EHP safety case ” means a safety case prepared
pursuant to, and accepted by the Executive under, paragraph 3 of exemption No.
8 of 2016 granted by the Executive in pursuance of its powers under regulation
11(1) of these Regulations on 5th September 2016 to National Grid Gas
Distribution Limited, a company registered in England and Wales with the
company number 10080864.

.

### Revocation of regulation 12

10

Omit regulation 12 (repeals, revocations and amendment).

### Insertion of Regulation 13

11

After regulation 12 insert—

####### Review of these Regulations

11.13

11.13.1

The Secretary of State must from time to time—

11.13.1.a

carry out a review of the regulatory provisions contained in these
Regulations, as amended by the Gas Safety (Management) (Amendment) Regulations
2023;

11.13.1.b

set out the conclusions of the review in a report; and

11.13.1.c

publish the report.

11.13.2

Section 30(4) of the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015
requires that a report must in particular—

11.13.2.a

set out the objectives intended to be achieved by the regulatory regime
established by the regulatory provisions referred to in paragraph (1)(a),

11.13.2.b

assess the extent to which the objectives are achieved, and

11.13.2.c

assess whether those objectives remain appropriate, and if so, the extent to
which they could be achieved by a system which imposes less onerous regulatory
provision.

11.13.3

The first report must be published before the end of the period of five years
beginning with 6th April 2023.

11.13.4

Subsequent reports must be published under this regulation at intervals not
exceeding five years.

11.13.5

In this regulation “ regulatory provision ” has the same meaning as in
sections 28 to 32 of the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015
(see section 32 of that Act).

.

### Amendment of Schedule 1

12

In paragraph 12 of Schedule 1, after “network emergency co-ordinator”, in both
places it occurs, insert  “or the emergency reporting service provider for the
network” .

### New Schedule 2A

13

The Schedule inserts a new Schedule 2A into the Gas Safety (Management)
Regulations 1996.

### Amendment of Schedule 3

14

14.1

Schedule 3 (content and other characteristics of gas) is amended as follows.

14.2

In Part 1—

14.2.a

in the table following paragraph 1—

14.2.a.i

in the entry for “oxygen content”, for “≤0.2% (molar)” substitute  “≤1.0%
(molar), where the gas is conveyed in a pipe operated at a pressure of ≤38
barg, and ≤0.2% molar, where the gas is conveyed in a pipe operated at a
pressure of >38 barg” ;

14.2.a.ii

in the entry for “impurities”, for “the 1994 Regulations” substitute  “the
1998 Regulations” ;

14.2.a.iii

in the entry for “hydrocarbon dew point and water dewpoint”, for “the 1994
Regulations” substitute  “the 1998 Regulations” ;

14.2.a.iv

after that entry insert—

RD ≤0.700

;

14.2.a.v

in the entry for “WN”, for “≥47.20 MJ/m 3 ” substitute  “≥46.50 MJ/m 3 ” ;

14.2.a.vi

omit the entry for “ICF”;

14.2.a.vii

omit the entry for “SI”;

14.2.b

in paragraph 3, for “the 1994 Regulations” substitute  “the 1998 Regulations”
;

14.2.c

in paragraph 4 omit sub-paragraph (2).

14.3

In Part 2—

14.3.a

in paragraph 1—

14.3.a.i

omit sub-paragraph (b);

14.3.a.ii

after that sub-paragraph insert—

14.3.a.ii.c

RD ≤0.700

;

14.3.b

in paragraph 2 omit sub-paragraph (2).

14.4

In Part 3—

14.4.a

in paragraph 1—

14.4.a.i

omit the definition of “C 3 H 8 ”;

14.4.a.ii

omit the definition of “equivalent mixture”;

14.4.a.iii

omit the definition of “ICF”;

14.4.a.iv

after that definition insert—

“ gross calorific value ” means the gross calorific value, expressed in MJ/ m
3 , of a dry gas determined on the basis that the water produced by combustion
is assumed to be condensed;

;

14.4.a.v

in the definition of “mg/m 3 ” for “at 15C and 1.01325 bar” substitute  “under
the reference conditions” ;

14.4.a.vi

for the definition of “MJ/ m 3 ” substitute—

“MJ/ m 3 ” means megajoules per cubic metre under the reference conditions;

;

14.4.a.vii

omit the definition of “N 2 ”;

14.4.a.viii

omit the definition of “PN”;

14.4.a.ix

for the definition of “relative density” substitute—

“ relative density ” (“ RD ”) means the ratio of VG to VA (expressed in the
same units) where— VG is the mass of a volume of the gas when containing no
water vapour under the reference conditions; and VA is the mass of the same
volume of air containing no water vapour under those conditions;

;

14.4.a.x

omit the definition of “SI”;

14.4.a.xi

for the definition of “WN” substitute—

“ WN ” means the Wobbe Number of the gas, which is calculated in accordance
with the following formula—

g r o s s   c a l o r i f i c   v a l u e ÷ r e l a t i v e   d e n s i t y

;

14.4.a.xii

omit “trigonometric functions are to be evaluated in radians.”;

14.4.b

after paragraph 1 insert—

14.4.b.1A

In this Schedule, the reference conditions are 15C and 1.01325 bar.

;

14.4.c

omit paragraph 2.

### Amendment of the Health and Safety and Nuclear (Fees) Regulations 2022

15

15.1

The Health and Safety and Nuclear (Fees) Regulations 2022  are amended as
follows.

15.2

In regulation 15 (fees payable in respect of gas safety functions)—

15.2.a

in paragraph (2), for “or by a network emergency co-ordinator” insert  “, by a
network emergency co-ordinator or by an emergency reporting service provider”
;

15.2.b

in paragraph (4), for the definition of ““network”, “network emergency co-
ordinator” and “safety case”” (other than “and” at the end) substitute—

      “emergency reporting service provider”, “ network ”, “ network emergency
co-ordinator ” and “ safety case ” have the meanings given in the 1996
Regulations (see regulation 2(1) of those Regulations);

.

15.3

In Schedule 11 (fees payable in respect of gas safety functions), in column 2
for “or the network emergency coordinator”, in both places it occurs,
substitute  “, the network emergency co-ordinator or the emergency reporting
service provider” .

Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions

      Mims Davies   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department for
Work and Pensions     7th March 2023

  Emergency Reporting Service Provider: Safety Case

Regulation 13

  After Schedule 2 to the Gas Safety (Management) Regulations 1996 insert—
SCHEDULE 2A     Particulars to be included in safety case of an emergency
reporting service provider     Regulation 3(3A)       1     Name and address
of the person preparing the safety case (referred to in this Schedule as “ the
duty holder ”).         2     A general description of any network to which
the safety case relates, including the boundary of the network.         3
A general description of the plant and premises the duty holder intends to use
in connection with the arrangements and procedures described in the duty
holder’s safety case pursuant to this Schedule.         4     Where the duty
holder intends to provide any service under paragraph (1)(b) of regulation 7,
particulars of the communication methods to be used by the duty holder.
5       1     Particulars to demonstrate that the duty holder has established
adequate arrangements to enable the duty holder to comply with the duties, and
carry out all of the functions, of an emergency reporting service provider
under regulation 7, including in particular—     a     particulars to
demonstrate that the duty holder has established adequate arrangements for
ensuring that each relevant service is manned only by persons who are
competent and have the necessary equipment and training to—     i
establish the location of the person reporting the gas escape and, if
different, the likely location of the escape,         ii     determine whether
the gas escape is controllable or uncontrollable,         iii     if the gas
escape is controllable, determine whether steps can be taken to control the
escape and if so, advise the person reporting the escape how to do so, and
confirm if it has been controlled, and         iii     provide appropriate
advice to the person reporting the gas escape on the steps that may be taken
to minimise the risk of harm to themselves and others;             b
particulars to demonstrate that the duty holder has established adequate
arrangements for ensuring that the service required by regulation 7(1)(a), and
any service provided under regulation 7(1)(b), is available throughout Great
Britain and manned continuously, including—     i     arrangements for
ensuring business continuity and disaster recovery capability, and         ii
particulars to demonstrate that the duty holder has established adequate
arrangements for testing and rehearsing those arrangements;             c
particulars to demonstrate that the duty holder has established adequate
arrangements for ensuring that calls to the service required by regulation
7(1)(a) are answered, and any communications made through a service provided
under regulation 7(1)(b) are responded to, in a timely manner;         d
where the duty holder provides a service under regulation 7(1)(b), particulars
of the procedures and arrangements that the duty holder has established for
ensuring that a gas escape reported to it concerning a network for which it is
not the emergency reporting service provider is, in accordance with paragraph
(1C)(b) of regulation 7, reported to the correct emergency reporting service
provider;         e     particulars of the procedures and arrangements that
the duty holder has established for ensuring that a gas escape is reported, in
accordance with paragraph (2) of regulation 7, to the person conveying gas on
the network who is responsible for preventing the gas escaping.             2
In this paragraph “ relevant service ” means—     a     the service required
by regulation 7(1)(a),         b     any service provided under regulation
7(1)(b), or         c     a service provided for the purposes of regulation
7(3) or (8).                 6     Particulars to demonstrate that the duty
holder has established adequate arrangements for passing and receiving
information relevant to health and safety to and from other persons who have
duties under these Regulations.         7     Particulars of the arrangements
the duty holder has established to enable the duty holder to comply with
regulation 6 (co-operation).             .

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Gas Safety (Management) Regulations 1996 ( S.I.
1996/551 ) (“ the 1996 Regulations ”). The 1996 Regulations provide for the
preparation and acceptance of safety cases in respect of the conveyance of gas
in a network and impose requirements in respect of gas escapes and the
composition and pressure of gas. With one exception, these Regulations come
into force on 6th April 2023.

  These Regulations update the requirements set out in Schedule 3 to the 1996
Regulations as to the characteristics and composition of gas which is conveyed
in a network. The updates include a revision to the range within which the
Wobbe Number of gas must fall. The revision to the Wobbe Number range comes
into force on 6th April 2025.

  These Regulations also amend the 1996 Regulations:     a     to bring pipes
used to convey gas from biomethane production facilities and LNG facilities
within the definition of “ network ” for the purposes of those Regulations;
b     to require there to be a sole emergency reporting service provider for
each network and set out the functions of that provider. An “emergency
reporting service provider” is a person who has prepared a specific safety
case that is accepted by the Health and Safety Executive;         c     to
make clear that operators of LNG facilities must co-operate with a person
conveying gas in a network, a national emergency co-ordinator and an emergency
reporting service provider;         d     to make a number of minor drafting
and consequential amendments and transitional provisions;         e     to
require the Secretary of State to keep the provisions of the 1996 Regulations
as amended by these Regulations under review.

  These Regulations also amend the Health and Safety and Nuclear (Fees)
Regulations 2022 ( S.I. 2022/1378 ) so a fee is payable by an emergency
reporting service provider, or a person applying to be such a provider, to the
Health and Safety Executive in respect of the exercise of its functions.

  A full impact assessment of the effect that this instrument will have on the
costs of business, the voluntary sector and the public sector is published
alongside the instrument on  legislation.gov.uk . Copies of the impact
assessment are also available from the Energy Policy Team, HSE, Engagement and
Policy Division, 2.2 Redgrave Court, Bootle, L20 7HS.

