Title: The Court of Judicature Fees (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-11-06
Description: This Order amends the Court of Judicature Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996 (S.R.1996 No. 100) to increase the majority of fees payable in the Court of Judicature over a two year period (9% increase effective from 1st November 2023, with a further 9% increase effective from 1st October 2024).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/169

## The Court of Judicature Fees (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023

Court Of Judicature

Made 10th October 2023

Coming into operation 1st November 2023

The Department of Justice, in exercise of the powers conferred by section
116(1) of the Judicature (Northern Ireland) Act 1978  and now vested in it ,
makes the following Order with the concurrence of the Department of Finance .
The Department has, in accordance with section 116(1) of that Act, consulted
with the Lady Chief Justice.

### Citation, commencement and interpretation


1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Court of Judicature Fees (Amendment) Order
(Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation on 1st November 2023.

1.2

In this Order—

“ the Aarhus Convention ” means the United Nations Economic Commission for
Europe Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-
Making and Access to Justice in Environment Matters done at Aarhus on 25th
June 1998.

### Amendment of the Court of Judicature Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996


2

The Court of Judicature Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996  is amended as
follows.

3

For sections 1 to 6 of the Schedule substitute the new sections set out in the
Schedule to this Order.

### Saving Provision


4

The 1996 Order as it applied immediately before Article 2 of this Order came
into operation, continues to apply to a judicial review or review under any
statutory provision of a decision, act or omission which is subject to the
provisions of the Aarhus Convention.

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Justice on 10th October
2023 Richard Pengelly A senior officer of the Department of Justice The
Department of Finance concurs in the making of this Order. Sealed with the
Official Seal of the Department of Finance on 10th October 2023 Patrick Neeson
A senior officer of the Department of Finance

Article 3

SECTION 1 Fees payable in every Department of the Court of Judicature  Column
1 Column 2 Column 3 Item Fee £ As from 01/11/23 As from 01/10/24 Document to
be endorsed A. COMMENCEMENT OF A CAUSE OR MATTER 1. On sealing— (a) a writ of
summons, or £284.00 £310.00 The filed copy (b) an originating summons, except
for the payment out of court of a sum not exceeding £1,500.00 or where a fee
under section 6 is payable and where no other fee is specifically provided, or
£284.00 £310.00 The filed copy (c) a writ of summons or an originating summons
under Order 88, or £213.00 £232.00 The filed copy (d) an originating notice of
motion, except a notice of appeal to the High Court, or £284.00 £310.00 The
filed copy (e) a petition, except where a fee under section 4 or 6 of this
Schedule is payable £284.00 £310.00 The filed copy 2. On sealing an
originating summons— (a) on approval of a minor settlement £213.00 £232.00 The
filed copy (b) under section 31 or 32(1) of the Administration of Justice Act
1970 for discovery before commencement of proceedings £107.00 £117.00 The
filed copy (c) on a third party notice £284.00 £310.00 The filed copy (d) on a
counterclaim £284.00 £310.00 The filed copy 3. On a notice of motion under
Order 53 for judicial review where application for leave has been granted
£284.00 £310.00 The application B. PROGRESS OF PROCEEDINGS Interlocutory
applications 4. On sealing a summons, a notice of appointment, or a notice of
motion £165.00 £180.00 The notice or summons 5. (a) On an ex parte application
to a judge for an injunction £284.00 £310.00 Ex parte docket or summons or
affidavit in support of the application (b) On an ex parte application to a
judge for approval of a minor settlement £213.00 £232.00 The ex parte docket
(c) On an application to a Master for payment out of monies invested on behalf
of a minor £22.00 £24.00 The application (d) On an ex parte application before
a (i) Master £213.00 £232.00 The ex parte docket (ii) judge £284.00 £310.00
(e) On listing of a first case management review hearing (other than in a
judicial review under Order 53 and a commercial action under Order 72) before
a (i) Master £213.00 £232.00 The notification letter (ii) judge £284.00
£310.00 The fees in Item 5(e) are payable by the plaintiff when the review is
listed by the court and otherwise by the party requesting the review hearing.
6. On an application to transfer an action to the commercial list £284.00
£310.00 The application Entering and setting down for trial in court 7. On
entering or setting down any cause or matter for trial, hearing or further
consideration in court, except where it is otherwise provided for in this
Schedule (a) without a Jury £427.00 £465.00 The setting down docket (b) with a
Jury £711.00 £775.00 8. (a) On setting down a cause or motion for judgment
£427.00 £465.00 The motion or summons (b) Where the motion is treated as the
trial of the action, in addition to the fee paid on the notice of motion
£427.00 £465.00 The praecipe 9. On setting down other party pleadings £427.00
£465.00 Examination of witness before trial 10. On the examination of a
witness before trial £71.00 £77.00 The order Inquiries, trials and assessment
of damages or interest by Master 11. (a) On an inquiry, reference for trial or
assessment of damages before a Master or Admiralty Registrar £213.00 £232.00
The order, judgment or certificate (b) On an assessment of interest before a
Master £165.00 £180.00 The judgment Decree, award, judgment, order or dismiss
12. On a decree, award, judgment, order or dismiss £107.00 £117.00 The
judgment Appeals to judge in chambers 13. On sealing a notice of appeal from a
Master or Admiralty Registrar or District Judge to judge in chambers £284.00
£310.00 The notice filed Appeals to High Court 14. On filing— (a) a notice of
appeal to the High Court, or £284.00 £310.00 The filed notice (b) a case
stated or a special case for the opinion of the High Court pursuant to statute
and setting the appeal or case down for hearing, or £284.00 £310.00 The case
(c) a notice of cross-appeal to the High Court, or £284.00 £310.00 The notice
filed (d) a respondent’s notice of appeal to the High Court £284.00 £310.00
The notice filed C. ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENTS Application in aid of enforcement
15. On an application for an attachment of earnings order to secure
maintenance payments £165.00 £180.00 The affidavit in support of the
application Registration of Foreign and Commonwealth Judgments 16. (a) Under
Part II of the Administration of Justice Act 1920 or the Foreign Judgments
(Reciprocal Enforcement) Act 1933— (i) on an ex parte application to register
an incoming judgment or order £71.00 £77.00 The affidavit in support of the
application (ii) on providing a certified copy of a judgment or order for use
abroad £107.00 £117.00 The affidavit in support of the application (b) Under
the Maintenance Orders Act 1950 or the Maintenance and Affiliation Orders Act
(Northern Ireland) 1966— (i) on an ex parte application to register an
outgoing order £71.00 £77.00 The affidavit in support of/ the application (ii)
on processing an incoming registration £71.00 £77.00 The affidavit or order
(c) Under the Maintenance Orders (Facilities for Enforcement) Act 1920— (i) on
an ex parte application to register an outgoing order £71.00 £77.00 The
affidavit in support of the application (ii) on processing an incoming
registration £71.00 £77.00 The affidavit or order (d) Under the Maintenance
Orders (Reciprocal Enforcement) Act 1972 on an ex parte application to
register an outgoing order £71.00 £77.00 The affidavit or statement in support
of the application Enforcement of Arbitration Award 17. On an application for
leave to enforce an arbitration award £107.00 £117.00 The application D
MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS OR MATTERS Copy Documents 18. On a copy, including a
photographic copy, of all or any part of any document not otherwise provided
for— (a) five sheets or less £7.00 £8.00 The requisition (b) for each sheet
thereafter £0.50 £0.50 (c) on a copy order/decree including certified or
sealed £15.00 £16.00 The requisition (d) on a copy order/decree produced
online £13.00 £14.00 The requisition 19. For a certified copy of a written
judgment £107.00 £117.00 The requisition Bills of Sale 20. On filing— (a) any
document under the Bills of Sale (Ireland) Acts, 1879 and 1883, other than a
fiat of satisfaction £43.00 £47.00 The document filed (b) fiat of satisfaction
£43.00 £47.00 The application 21. (a) For a certificate of the result of a
search in one name in any register or index under the custody of the Registrar
of Bills of Sale £43.00 £47.00 The requisition for search (b) For every
additional name if included in the same certificate £28.00 £31.00 The
requisition for search Taking affidavits 22. On taking an affidavit or an
affirmation or a declaration £43.00 £47.00 The affidavit, affirmation or
declaration Searches 23. (a) On a search of court documents, except where item
21 or 38a applies £28.00 £31.00 The requisition (b) Additional fee where the
search carried out by an officer of the court £15.00 £16.00 The requisition
Writs of Subpoena 24. On sealing a writ of subpoena per person £43.00 £47.00
The requisition Warrants of arrest 25. On an application for a warrant of
arrest under Article 5(3) of the Protection from Harassment (Northern Ireland)
Order 1997 £0.00 £0.00 The application Certification of a pending action 26.
On a request for certification of a pending action required under Rule 91(3)
of the Land Registration Rules (Northern Ireland) 1994 or section 3(2) of the
Registration of Deeds Act (Northern Ireland) 1970 £98.00 £107.00 The form to
be certified

SECTION 2 Fees payable in the Central Office  Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 Item
Fee £ As from 01/11/23 As from 01/10/24 Document to be endorsed Review of
Taxing Master’s Decision 27. On an application to a judge to review the Taxing
Master’s decision £284.00 £310.00 The summons Admiralty 28. (a) On lodging
with the Marshall an instrument under Order 75, rule 5(1) £284.00 £310.00 The
praecipe (b) On the sale of a ship or goods— (i) for every £100 or fraction of
£100 of the price up to £100,000 £2.00 £2.00 (Paid by transfer) (ii) for every
£100 or fraction of £100 of the price exceeding £100,000 £1.00 £1.00 (Paid by
transfer) (c) On entering a reference for hearing by the Registrar £284.00
£310.00 The notice for hearing (d) On retaining possession of a ship with or
without cargo, or of a ship’s cargo without a ship, per day £71.00 £77.00
(Paid by transfer) Court of Appeal 29. (a) On filing a notice of appeal or
case stated £711.00 £775.00 The notice of appeal or requisition (b) On filing
a notice of cross-appeal or a respondent’s notice under Order 59, rule 6(1)
£533.00 £581.00 The notice (c) On any other application to the Court of Appeal
£711.00 £775.00 The requisition Transcript of Trial 30. A transcript of the
shorthand or stenographic notes or of a recording taken by mechanical means of
the whole or any part of any proceedings in respect of which— (a) an appeal
lies to the Court of Appeal, for each page £1.00 £1.00 The requisition (b)
leave has been given by a judge— (i) in a criminal trial for each folio £1.00
£1.00 The requisition (ii) in a civil trial for each folio £1.00 £1.00 The
requisition (iii) for each page of a second or subsequent transcript £1.00
£1.00 The requisition (c) on an audio recording produced on compact disc in
any court proceedings – for each hour recorded or part thereof £37.00 £40.00
The requisition Deed Poll 31. Application for a deed poll £71.00 £77.00 The
requisition

SECTION 3 Fees payable in the Office of the Lord Chief Justice  Column 1
Column 2 Column 3 Item Fee £ As from 01/11/23 As from 01/10/24 Document to be
endorsed 32. On presenting a memorial for appointment as commissioner for
oaths or notary public £107.00 £117.00 The memorial 33. For every certificate
of such appointment £107.00 £117.00 The certificate

SECTION 4 Fees payable in the Bankruptcy and Companies Office  Column 1 Column
2 Column 3 Item Fee £ As from 01/11/23 As from 01/10/24 Document to be
endorsed UNDER THE COMPANIES (NORTHERN IRELAND) ORDER 1986 OR THE INSOLVENCY
(NORTHERN IRELAND) ORDER 1989 34. (a) On sealing a petition for the winding up
of a company by the court or for an order under Article 452 or 453 of the
Companies (Northern Ireland) Order 1986 £213.00 £232.00 The petition (b) On
sealing a bankruptcy petition: (i) if presented by a debtor or by the personal
representative of a deceased debtor £165.00 £180.00 The petition (ii) if
presented by a creditor or other person £213.00 £232.00 The petition (c) On
sealing any other petition (one fee only is payable where more than one
petition is presented in relation to a partnership) £213.00 £232.00 The
petition (d) On the hearing of a public examination £213.00 £232.00 The
application 35. (a) On sealing any originating application £213.00 £232.00 The
application (b) On sealing any other application £165.00 £180.00 The
application The fees in Items 35(a) and (b) are not payable on an application
to set aside a statutory demand or an application by the Official Receiver
when applying only in that capacity UNDER THE BANKRUPTCY ACTS (NORTHERN
IRELAND) 1857 TO 1980 36. On a request for a certificate to discharge
bankruptcy £107.00 £117.00 The application 37. On a petition for an
Administration Order £213.00 £232.00 The petition MISCELLANEOUS 38. (a) On any
search in the office (including an inspection) other than by a bankrupt,
director proposing a company voluntary arrangement, a debtor proposing an
individual voluntary arrangement, or the Official Receiver when acting as such
£28.00 £31.00 The search docket (b) Additional fee where the search is carried
out by an officer of the court £15.00 £16.00 The requisition

SECTION 5 Fees payable in the Taxing Office  Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 Item
Fee £ As from 01/11/23 As from 01/10/24 Document to be endorsed 39. On an
application for taxation under the Solicitors (Northern Ireland) Order 1976
£165.00 £180.00 The requisition 40. On the lodgement of a bill of costs 5% of
original bill (up to a maximum fee of £3,500) 5% of original bill (up to a
maximum fee of £3,500) The bill NOTE Provided that where the bill is taxed
credit for this fee is to be given against the final fee payable 41. (a) On
taxing a cash account between solicitor and own client under the Solicitors
(Northern Ireland) Order 1976— for every £50 or fraction of £50 of the amounts
found to have been received and paid £0.39 £0.39 The account (b) On the
taxation of a bill of costs— (i) where the amount allowed does not exceed £500
£86.00 £94.00 The bill (ii) where the amount exceeds £500, for every £1 or
fraction of £1 of the amount allowed £0.20 (up to a maximum fee of £10,500)
£0.20 (up to a maximum fee of £10,500) The bill In addition to item 40 the
Master may in any case require the bill of costs to be stamped before taxation
with the whole or part of the amount of fees which would be payable if the
bill were allowed by him at the full amount thereof (including in cases under
the Solicitors (Northern Ireland) Order 1976, the fee payable in respect of
the cash account) (c) On the withdrawal of a bill of costs which has been
lodged for taxation Calculated Calculated In addition to item 40 such fee (not
exceeding the amount which would have been payable under paragraph (b) if the
bill had been allowed in full) as shall appear to the Master to be reasonable
having regard to the amount of work done in the Office (d) On assessing costs
in the Chancery Division for every £1 or fraction of £1 of the sum assessed
£0.14 £0.14 The bill (e) On an application to the Taxing Master to review his
decision £165.00 £180.00 The written objection

SECTION 6 Fees payable in the Office of Care and Protection  Column 1 Column 2
Column 3 Item Fee £ As from 01/11/23 As from 01/10/24 Document to be endorsed
WARDSHIP, ADOPTION AND PARENTAL ORDERS 42. On an application by way of
petition or originating summons for wardship, adoption or a parental order
under section 30 of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990 £142.00
£155.00 The filed copy FAMILY LAW ACT 43. On an application under section 27
of the Family Law Act 1986 for the registration of a custody order £107.00
£117.00 The filed copy of the order ENDURING POWERS OF ATTORNEY 44. On an
application for registration of an enduring power of attorney £165.00 £180.00
The filed copy 45. On an application made pursuant to a direction of the Court
under rule 4 of Order 109A £284.00 £310.00 The filed copy 46. On an
application for a search of the register of enduring powers of attorney £28.00
£31.00 The requisition PATIENTS’ AFFAIRS Commencement Fee 47. (1) On a first
application for the appointment of a controller or other originating process,
except where it appears that the patient’s clear annual income is less than
£1,000 £284.00 £310.00 The requisition (2) On commencement pursuant to a
request by a personal applicant, in addition to Fee (1) £0.00 £0.00 Annual
Administrative Fee 48. On a certificate issued by the Office (a)
administrative fee per annum where funds are operated out of court £356.00
£388.00 (b) administrative fee per annum where funds are held by Court Funds
Office £498.00 £543.00 Transaction Fee 49. (1) On any order (or, as the case
may be, on any approval given by the court under an order) made by the court
in the exercise of powers conferred by— (i) Article 99(1)— £114.00 or in a
“special case” ¼ % of the pecuniary consideration as defined in Note 3 if
greater than £114.00 £124.00 or in a “special case” ¼ % of the pecuniary
consideration as defined in Note 3 if greater than £124.00 (b) (sale, exchange
etc of property) (c) (acquisition of property) (d) (settlement of gift of
property) (h) (carrying out of contract) or (k) (exercise of powers as
guardian or trustee) of the Mental Health (Northern Ireland) Order 1986 (“ the
Order ”) (ii) Article 102 of the Order (vesting of stock in curator appointed
outside Northern Ireland) £114.00 or in a “special case” ¼ % of the pecuniary
consideration as defined in Note 3 if greater than £114.00 £124.00 or in a
“special case” ¼ % of the pecuniary consideration as defined in Note 3 if
greater than £124.00 (iii) Section 35(9) of the Trustee Act (Northern Ireland)
1958 (appointment of new trustee); £114.00 or in a “special case” ¼% of the
pecuniary consideration as defined in Note 3 if greater than £114.00 £124.00
or in a “special case” ¼% of the pecuniary consideration as defined in Note 3
if greater than £124.00 The requisition (iv) Section 57(3) of the Trustee Act
(Northern Ireland) 1958 (variation of trusts for benefit of patient), £114.00
or in a “special case” ¼ % of the pecuniary consideration as defined in Note 3
if greater than £114.00 £124.00 or in a “special case” ¼ % of the pecuniary
consideration as defined in Note 3 if greater than £124.00 provided that no
fee under these items shall be taken if the property is worth less than £50
and no such fee shall exceed £500 (2) On the making by the court of any order
or authority under Article 99(1)(e) of the Order (execution of will) £284.00
£310.00 The requisition Control Fees 50. On passing an account where an
officer of the court (including Official Solicitor) is appointed £711.00
£775.00 51. Winding-up fee on the death of a patient £391.00 £426.00 The
requisition 52. On an application to purchase, sell or transfer house or land,
release life interest or right of residence £213.00 £232.00 The requisition
53. Enduring Power of Attorney Account fee £213.00 £232.00 The requisition 54.
Referral of patient to Office of Care and Protection including issue of
enabling certificate and Master’s direction by certificate £107.00 £117.00 The
requisition 55. On an application to appoint a new Controller £284.00 £310.00
The requisition 56. Master’s subsequent direction by certificate, where no
Controller Order or Short Procedure Order issued £107.00 £117.00 The
requisition 57. Issue of a Controller ad interim Order or a short procedure
order £107.00 £117.00 The requisition 58. On appointment of a Controller
£165.00 £180.00 The requisition

###### NOTES:


1

In relation to fee number 48—

1.1

the annual administration fee shall be payable from the date of issue of the
first application for the appointment of a controller or other originating
process until the termination of the proceeding.

1.2

no administration fee may be taken where the proceedings are terminated before
any order is made.

2

Fees number 48 and 49 are not payable where an officer of the court is acting
as controller for the patient.

3

In relation to fee number 49—

3.1

“ special case ” means an order made by the court–

3.1.a

under paragraph (b), (c), (d) and (h) of Article 99(1) of the Order;

3.1.b

relating to the sale or purchase by the patient in exercise of his powers as a
tenant for life under the Settled Lands Acts 1882 to 1890;

3.1.c

under section 57(3) of the Trustee Act (Northern Ireland) 1958.

3.2

In a special case, the standard fee payable shall be increased where there is
readily ascertainable pecuniary consideration in the nature of capital arising
to or provided by the patient (otherwise than by way of loan to, or repayment
of a loan by the patient), no account being taken of the possible
capitalisation of the value of rents or interest or other income payments.

3.3

Where a transaction is to be approved under an order mentioned in fee number
49, the fee shall be taken on the approval of the transaction and the Office
shall issue a certificate stating the amount payable.

3.4

Except when the court otherwise directs, no fee shall be payable under fee
number 49 upon the sale or purchase of personal chattels or any investment for
the time being authorised by law for the investment of trust property or in
securities quoted in any stock exchange in the United Kingdom.

4

4.1

In relation to fee number 47, the clear annual income at the patient’s
disposal for the purpose of this fee does not include income which accrued and
became payable to him more than six months prior to the date when the court’s
jurisdiction was first exercised in relation to him.

4.2

In relation to fee numbers 48 and 50, no annual fee shall be taken where the
proceedings are terminated less than four weeks from the date of issue of the
first application for the appointment of a controller.

5

In relation to fees number 47, 48, 49 and 50, no fee shall be payable on any
income by way of a war pension or war injuries (civilian) pension in respect
of–

5.a

service in the armed forces of the Crown to which section 2 of the War
Pensions Act 1920 applies; or

5.b

service in the armed forces of the Crown after 2nd September 1939; or

5.c

service before 15th August 1945 to which the Pension (Polish Forces) Scheme
1964 applies; or

5.d

detention, capture, war injury or war risk injury within the meaning of any
scheme (other than that mentioned in paragraph (c) above) made under the
Pensions (Navy, Army, Air Force and Mercantile Marine) Act 1939, or under that
Act as amended and applied by the Pensions (Mercantile Marine) Act 1942; or

5.e

war service injury within the meaning of the Personal Injuries (Civilians)
Scheme 1983 as amended in the case of a civil defence volunteer to whom that
Scheme applied.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Order)

This Order amends the Court of Judicature Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996 (
S.R.1996 No. 100 ) to increase the majority of fees payable in the Court of
Judicature over a two year period (9% increase effective from 1st November
2023, with a further 9% increase effective from 1st October 2024).

The Supreme Court Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996 has been renamed the
Court of Judicature Fees Order (Northern Ireland) 1996 as a consequence of the
renaming of the Supreme Court of Judicature of Northern Ireland by virtue of
section 59 and paragraph 6 of Schedule 11 to the Constitutional Reform Act
2005 (c. 4) .

An Explanatory Memorandum and a Regulatory Impact Assessment have been
produced and are available from the Northern Ireland Courts and Tribunals
Service, Laganside House, 23-27 Oxford Street, Belfast BT1 3LA or online
alongside this Statutory Rule at  http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr .

