Title: The Tertiary Education and Research (Wales) Act 2022 (Commencement No. 2 and Transitory Provision) Order 2023
Date: 2024-04-18
Description: This Order is made by the Welsh Ministers and brings into force provisions of the Tertiary Education and Research (Wales) Act 2022 (“the Act”). This is the second commencement order made under the Act.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2023/919

## The Tertiary Education and Research (Wales) Act 2022 (Commencement No. 2 and Transitory Provision) Order 2023

    Education, Wales

  Made   21 August 2023

      The Welsh Ministers, in exercise of the powers conferred by section
148(2) and (3) of the Tertiary Education and Research (Wales) Act 2022 , make
the following Order:

### Title and interpretation

1

1.1

The title of this Order is the Tertiary Education and Research (Wales) Act
2022 (Commencement No. 2 and Transitory Provision) Order 2023.

1.2

In this Order “ the Act ” means the Tertiary Education and Research (Wales)
Act 2022, and other words and expressions have the same meaning as they have
in the Act.

### Provisions coming into force on 4 September 2023

2

The following provisions of the Act come into force on 4 September 2023—

2.a

section 13 (statement of strategic priorities);

2.b

section 14 (strategic plan for the Commission);

2.c

section 17 (academic freedom of higher education providers and staff);

2.d

section 18 (institutional autonomy of tertiary education providers);

2.e

section 19 (compatibility with charity law and governing documents of tertiary
education providers);

2.f

section 20 (guidance);

2.g

section 21 (Welsh Ministers’ power to give general directions);

2.h

section 22 (additional functions of the Commission);

2.i

section 24 (transfer schemes);

2.j

section 25(7) (the register);

2.k

section 30(1) (proportionate conditions);

2.l

section 34 (power to provide for further mandatory ongoing registration
conditions);

2.m

section 46 (requirements of a fee limit statement);

2.n

section 85(1), (2)(a) and (b) (power of the Welsh Ministers to fund the
Commission);

2.o

section 87(2) (policy on funding powers);

2.p

section 89(1) and (2) (financial support for higher education courses
specified in regulations);

2.q

section 130 (information and advice from the Commission and information from
the Welsh Ministers);

2.r

section 132(1)(a) to (e), (g) to (k) and (2) (powers to share information);

2.s

section 141 (data protection);

2.t

section 142 (publication);

2.u

section 147 (minor and consequential amendments);

2.v

in Schedule 1 (Commission for Tertiary Education and Research)—

2.v.i

paragraph 5 in so far as not already in force;

2.v.ii

paragraph 7 in so far as not already in force;

2.v.iii

paragraph 8(1) to (3), (6) to (8) and (10);

2.v.iv

paragraph 9(1) to (3) and (4)(a);

2.v.v

paragraph 10 in so far as not already in force;

2.v.vi

paragraph 11(1) in so far as not already in force, (3), (4) and (6) to (10);

2.v.vii

paragraph 13;

2.v.viii

paragraph 14;

2.v.ix

paragraph 15(1)(a);

2.v.x

paragraph 18;

2.v.xi

paragraph 19;

2.v.xii

paragraph 20;

2.v.xiii

paragraph 21;

2.v.xiv

paragraph 22;

2.w

Schedule 2 (transfers of property and staff to the Commission);

2.x

in Schedule 4 (minor and consequential amendments)—

2.x.i

paragraph 20(1);

2.x.ii

paragraph 20(2)(a);

2.x.iii

paragraph 28(a).

### Provisions coming into force on 4 September 2023 to the extent specified

3

The following provisions of the Act come into force on 4 September 2023 to the
extent specified in relation to each such provision—

3.a

section 2 (promoting life-long learning), for the purposes of preparing a
strategic plan under section 14 (but not so as to bring the duty under section
2 into force);

3.b

section 3 (promoting equality of opportunity), for the purposes of preparing a
strategic plan under section 14 (but not so as to bring the duties under
section 3 into force);

3.c

section 4 (encouraging participation in tertiary education), for the purposes
of preparing a strategic plan under section 14 (but not so as to bring the
duties under section 4 into force);

3.d

section 5 (promoting continuous improvement in tertiary education), for the
purposes of preparing a strategic plan under section 14 (but not so as to
bring the duty under section 5 into force);

3.e

section 6(1)(a) (promotion of research and innovation), for the purposes of
preparing a strategic plan under section 14 (but not so as to bring the duty
under section 6(1)(a) into force);

3.f

section 7 (promoting collaboration and coherence in tertiary education and
research), for the purposes of preparing a strategic plan under section 14
(but not so as to bring the duties under section 7 into force);

3.g

section 8 (contributing to a sustainable and innovative economy), for the
purposes of preparing a strategic plan under section 14 (but not so as to
bring the duty under section 8 into force);

3.h

section 9(1) (promoting tertiary education through the medium of Welsh), for
the purposes of preparing a strategic plan under section 14 (but not so as to
bring the duties under section 9(1) into force);

3.i

section 10 (promoting a civic mission), for the purposes of preparing a
strategic plan under section 14 (but not so as to bring the duty under section
10 into force);

3.j

section 11 (promoting a global outlook), for the purposes of preparing a
strategic plan under section 14 (but not so as to bring the duties under
section 11 into force);

3.k

section 12 (promoting collaboration between providers of tertiary education
and trade unions), for the purposes of preparing a strategic plan under
section 14 (but not so as to bring the duty under section 12 into force);

3.l

section 25, for the purposes of making regulations under that section;

3.m

section 25(1), (4), (6)(a) and (6)(b) (in so far as it relates to subsections
(4) and (5)), for the purposes of section 25(7) (but not so as to bring any
duties under those subsections into force);

3.n

section 25(4)(d), for the purposes of section 27(2) (initial registration
conditions) (but not so as to bring the duty under section 25(4)(d) into
force);

3.o

section 25(9)(a) and (10) (in so far as subsection (10) relates to subsection
(9)(a));

3.p

section 27 (initial registration conditions), for the purposes of making
regulations under that section;

3.q

section 27(1), (2) and (8), for the purposes of enabling the Commission to
prepare the document referred to in section 27(2) (but not so as to bring the
duty under section 27(2) into force);

3.r

section 28(1) to (3) (general ongoing registration conditions), for the
purposes of enabling the Commission to take steps towards determining the
general ongoing registration conditions pursuant to section 28(1) (but not so
as to bring the duties under section 28(1) into force);

3.s

section 31(1)(a) to (f), (i), (j) and (2) (mandatory ongoing registration
conditions for each registered provider), for the purposes of enabling the
Commission to take steps towards determining the general ongoing registration
conditions pursuant to section 28(1) (but not so as to bring the duty under
section 31(1) into force);

3.t

section 32 (mandatory ongoing registration condition on fee limits), for the
purposes of making regulations under that section;

3.u

section 32 and section 33 (mandatory ongoing registration conditions on equal
opportunity), for the purposes of enabling the Commission to take steps
towards determining the general ongoing registration conditions pursuant to
section 28(1) (but not so as to bring any duties under sections 32 and 33 into
force);

3.v

section 35 (Commission duty to give guidance about ongoing registration
conditions), for the purposes of enabling the Commission to prepare guidance
for registered providers about ongoing registration conditions (but not so as
to bring the duty under that section into force);

3.w

section 36 (Commission duty to monitor compliance with ongoing registration
conditions), for the purposes of enabling the Commission to take steps towards
determining how it will monitor compliance with ongoing registration
conditions by registered providers (but not so as to bring the duty under that
section into force);

3.x

section 41 (de-registration), for the purposes of making regulations under
that section;

3.y

section 43 (voluntary de-registration and de-registration with consent), for
the purposes of making regulations under that section;

3.z

section 47(1) to (5) (approval of fee limit statement), for the purposes of
enabling the Commission to take steps towards determining the fee limit
condition pursuant to section 32(3)(a) and the general ongoing registration
conditions pursuant to section 28(1) (but not so as to bring any duties under
section 47(2) or (4) into force);

3.aa

section 54 (assessment of quality of higher education), for the purposes of
making regulations under that section;

3.bb

section 57 (duty of the Chief Inspector to inspect and report), for the
purposes of making regulations under that section;

3.cc

section 83 (designation of other providers of tertiary education), for the
purposes of making regulations under that section;

3.dd

section 84 (interpretation of Part 2), except for the definition of “excess
fees”;

3.ee

section 87(1) and (5), except for the references to sections 88 and 105 in
subsection (5), for the purposes of preparing a statement under section 87(1)
(but not so as to bring the duty under that section into force);

3.ff

section 88 (financial support to specified providers for higher education),
for the purposes of making regulations under that section;

3.gg

section 89(3) to (5), for the purposes of preparing a statement under section
87;

3.hh

section 97 (financial support for further education or training), for the
purposes of preparing a statement under section 87;

3.ii

section 101 (school sixth-forms), for the purposes of preparing a statement
under section 87;

3.jj

section 103 (financial support for other activities connected to tertiary
education), for the purposes of preparing a statement under section 87;

3.kk

section 104 (financial support for apprenticeships), for the purposes of
preparing a statement under section 87;

3.ll

section 105 (financial support for research and innovation), for the purposes
of making regulations under that section;

3.mm

in Schedule 1, paragraph 9(5), except in so far as it refers to paragraph
6(5).

### Provisions coming into force on 1 April 2024

4

The following provisions of the Act come into force on 1 April 2024—

4.a

sections 2 to 5 and 7 to 12 in so far as not already in force;

4.b

section 16 (review of strategic plan);

4.c

section 85 in so far as not already in force;

4.d

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.e

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Provisions coming into force on 1 April 2024 to the extent specified

5

Section 94 (education and training for eligible persons over 19) comes into
force on 1 April 2024 for the purposes of making regulations under that
section.

### Provisions coming into force on 1 April 2024 subject to transitory arrangements

6

6.1

Section 15 (approval, publication and implementation of strategic plan) comes
into force on 1 April 2024 subject to the modification set out in paragraph
(2) which applies during the period beginning with 1 April 2024 and ending on
16 December 2024.

6.2

Section 15(1) is to be read as if the words “a strategic plan prepared under
section 14 to the Welsh Ministers for their approval before the end of a
period of 6 months beginning with the day on which the statement is published
under section 13(1)” read as “the first strategic plan it prepares under
section 14 to the Welsh Ministers for their approval by 15 December 2024”.

      Jeremy Miles   Minister for Education and Welsh Language, one of the
Welsh Ministers     21 August 2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order is made by the Welsh Ministers and brings into force provisions
of the Tertiary Education and Research (Wales) Act 2022 (“ the Act ”). This is
the second commencement order made under the Act.

  This Order brings into force the provisions listed in articles 2 and 3 on 4
September 2023 and the provisions listed in articles 4 to 6 on 1 April 2024.

  The provisions listed in articles 2 and 4 are brought into force in full and
those in articles 3 and 5 are brought into force to the extent specified.
Article 6 brings into force section 15 of the Act, which is subject to
transitory provision.

  Articles 2(v)(i) to (xiv), 3(mm) and 4(d)(i) to (v) bring into force most
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Act that are not already in force. Schedule 1
makes provision about the Commission for Tertiary Education and Research (“
the Commission ”). That is provision such as membership, proceedings, and
supplementary powers. The majority of those provisions come into force on 4
September 2023 but provisions relating to the associate Commission staff
member are brought into force on 1 April 2024.

  Article 3(a) to (k) brings into force the Commission’s strategic duties set
out in sections 2 to 5, 6(1)(a), 7, 8, 9(1) and 10 to 12 of the Act for the
purposes only of enabling the Commission to prepare a strategic plan under
section 14.

  Article 4(a) brings into force the Commission’s strategic duties in sections
2 to 5 and 7 to 12 of the Act in so far as they are not already in force.

  Article 2(a) brings into force section 13 of the Act, which places the Welsh
Ministers under a duty to publish a statement setting out their strategic
priorities for and in connection with tertiary education and research and
innovation.

  Article 2(b) brings into force section 14 of the Act, which places the
Commission under a duty to prepare a strategic plan setting out how it intends
to discharge its strategic duties under sections 2 to 12 of the Act and
address the priorities set out in the Welsh Ministers’ statement published
under section 13.

  Article 6 brings into force section 15 of the Act, which places the
Commission under a duty to send a strategic plan prepared under section 14 to
the Welsh Ministers for their approval. However, section 15 is brought into
force subject to a modification in respect of the timing for submission of the
first strategic plan so that it must be sent to the Welsh Ministers for their
approval by 15 December 2024.

  Article 4(b) brings into force section 16 of the Act, which places the
Commission under a duty to review its published strategic plan if the Welsh
Ministers amend their statement of priorities. The section enables the
Commission to review its plan at any other time.

  Article 2(c) brings into force section 17 of the Act, which places the Welsh
Ministers and the Commission under a duty to have regard to the importance of
protecting the academic freedom of providers of higher education and their
academic staff.

  Article 2(d) brings into force section 18 of the Act, which places the Welsh
Ministers and the Commission under a duty to have regard to the importance of
protecting the institutional autonomy of tertiary education providers.

  Article 2(e) brings into force section 19 of the Act, which provides that
nothing in the Act enables the Commission or the Welsh Ministers to require
the governing body of a tertiary education provider to do anything
incompatible with its charity law obligations or its governing documents.

  Article 2(f) brings into force section 20 of the Act, which places the
Commission under a duty to have regard to guidance given to it by the Welsh
Ministers.

  Article 2(g) brings into force section 21 of the Act, which enables the
Welsh Ministers to give general directions to the Commission about the
exercise of any of its functions.

  Article 2(h) brings into force section 22 of the Act, which enables the
Welsh Ministers to make regulations conferring supplementary functions on the
Commission.

  Article 2(i) and (w) brings into force section 24 of, and Schedule 2 to, the
Act. Schedule 2 enables the Welsh Ministers to make schemes providing for the
transfer to the Commission of staff, property, rights and liabilities.

  Articles 2(j) to (m) and 3(l) to (z) bring provisions of Chapter 1 of Part 2
of the Act into force to enable the Commission to undertake preparatory work
in respect of the registration of tertiary education providers.

  Article 2(j) brings into force section 25(7) of the Act, which relates to
applications for registration with the Commission. Article 3(m) also brings
into force section 25(1), (4) and (6)(a) and (b) (so far as it relates to
subsections (4) and (5)) for the purposes of section 25(7).

  Article 3(l) brings into force section 25 of the Act to enable the Welsh
Ministers to make regulations relating to categories of registration and to
specify the information that must be contained in a provider’s entry in the
register.

  The Commission must register a tertiary education provider in a category of
the register if it satisfies the conditions in section 25(4) of the Act. The
conditions include, at paragraph (d), a requirement to satisfy relevant
initial registration conditions. Section 27(2) of the Act obliges the
Commission to publish a document specifying the requirements to be met in
relation to the initial conditions of registration. Article 3(n) and (q)
brings into force, respectively, section 25(4)(d) and section 27(1), (2) and
(8) for the purposes of enabling the Commission to prepare that document.

  Article 3(p) brings into force section 27 of the Act to enable the Welsh
Ministers to make regulations relating to further initial conditions of
registration.

  Article 3(r) brings into force section 28(1) to (3) of the Act to enable the
Commission to take steps towards determining the general ongoing registration
conditions.

  Article 3(o) brings into force section 25(9)(a) and (10) (so far as
subsection (10) relates to subsection (9)(a)) to provide for the meaning of “
ongoing registration conditions ” for the purposes of Part 2 of the Act.

  Article 3(s) and (u) brings into force, respectively, section 31(1)(a) to
(f), (i), (j) and (2) and sections 32 and 33 for the purposes of enabling the
Commission to take steps towards determining the general ongoing registration
conditions. Sections 31 to 33 of the Act provide for mandatory ongoing
registration conditions. Section 32 relates to fee limits and section 33
relates to equal opportunity.

  Article 3(t) brings into force section 32 of the Act to enable the Welsh
Ministers to make regulations in respect of fee limits. Articles 2(m) and 3(z)
bring into force, respectively, related provision in section 46 in respect of
fee limit statements and section 47(1) to (5) of the Act in respect of the
approval of those statements.

  Article 2(l) brings into force section 34 of the Act, which enables the
Welsh Ministers to make regulations to provide for further mandatory ongoing
registration conditions.

  Article 2(k) brings into force section 30(1) of the Act, which relates to
the proportionality of conditions.

  Article 3(v) and (w) brings into force, respectively, sections 35 and 36 of
the Act for the purposes of enabling the Commission to prepare guidance
relating to ongoing registration conditions and to undertake preparatory work
towards determining how it will monitor registered providers’ compliance with
ongoing registration conditions.

  Article 3(x) and (y) brings into force, respectively, sections 41 and 43 of
the Act for the purposes of enabling the Welsh Ministers to make regulations
in respect of deregistration.

  Article 3(aa) brings into force section 54 of the Act for the purposes of
making regulations relating to higher education quality assessments.

  Article 3(bb) brings into force section 57 of the Act for the purposes of
making regulations relating to inspections by His Majesty’s Chief Inspector of
Education and Training in Wales.

  Article 3(cc) brings into force section 83 of the Act for the purposes of
making regulations relating to the designation of providers of tertiary
education.

  Article 2(n) brings into force section 85(1), (2)(a) and (b) of the Act from
4 September 2023, which gives the Welsh Ministers power to fund the
Commission. Article 4(c) brings section 85 into force for all remaining
purposes from 1 April 2024.

  Articles 2(o) and 3(ee) bring into force, respectively, section 87(2), and
87(1) and (5) of the Act (except for the reference to sections 88 and 105 of
the Act in subsection (5)), for the purposes of enabling the Commission to
prepare a statement under section 87(1). Section 87(1) places the Commission
under a duty to publish a statement on how it intends to exercise its funding
powers.

  Article 3(gg), (hh), (ii), (jj) and (kk) brings into force, respectively,
sections 89(3) to (5), 97, 101, 103 and 104 of the Act (those sections contain
funding powers) for the purposes of preparing a statement under section 87.

  Article 3(ff) brings into force section 88 of the Act for the purposes of
making regulations relating to specified providers and financial support from
the Commission.

  Article 2(p) brings into force section 89(1) and (2) of the Act to allow
regulations relating to financial support for certain higher education courses
to be made.

  Article 3(ll) brings into force section 105 of the Act for the purposes of
making regulations relating to specified providers and financial support from
the Commission.

  Article 5 brings into force section 94 of the Act for the purposes of making
regulations relating to education and training for eligible persons over 19.

  Article 2(q) and (r) brings into force, respectively, section 130 of the
Act, which relates to information and advice from the Commission and
information from the Welsh Ministers, and certain provisions of section 132 of
the Act, which relates to powers to share information.

  Article 2(s) brings into force section 141 of the Act, which provides that
no provision made by the Act requiring, or enabling, the disclosure or use of
information disapplies, in any way, existing data protection legislation.

  Article 2(t) brings into force section 142 of the Act, which relates to
duties to publish under the Act.

  Article 2(u) and (x) brings into force, respectively, section 147 of the
Act, and consequential amendments to section 148 of the Government of Wales
Act 2006 and to Schedule 6 to the Welsh Language (Wales) Measure 2011.

  Article 4(e) brings into force consequential amendments to Schedule 6 to the
Welsh Language (Wales) Measure 2011 and to regulation 3(4) of the Welsh
Language Standards (No. 6) Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/90 (W. 33) ).

## NOTE AS TO EARLIER COMMENCEMENT ORDER

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  The following provisions of the Act have been brought into force by a
Commencement Order before the date of this Order.         Provision Date of
Commencement S.I. Number   Section 1 15 December 2022 S.I. 2022/1318 (W. 267)
(C. 106) Section 9 (partially) 15 December 2022 S.I. 2022/1318 (W. 267) (C.
106)   Schedule 1       Paragraphs 1; 2; 3; 4(1)(a) and (c); 5(1) and (2);
7(1) and (2); 10(1), (3), (4) and (7); 11(1) (partially) and (2); 12     15
December 2022 S.I. 2022/1318 (W. 267) (C. 106)

