Title: The Violent Crime Reduction Act 2006 (Specification for Imitation Firearms) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2024-01-26
Description: These Regulations prescribe the specifications that imitation firearms must conform to, pursuant to paragraph 7(A1) of Schedule 2 to the Violent Crime Reduction Act 2006 (“the 2006 Act”). The underlying purpose is to prevent imitation firearms from being converted into functioning firearms.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/162

## The Violent Crime Reduction Act 2006 (Specification for Imitation Firearms) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Firearms

  Made   2nd October 2023

  Coming into operation   31st October 2023

      The Department of Justice makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by paragraph 7(A1)(a) and (6B) of Schedule 2 to the
Violent Crime Reduction Act 2006 .

### Citation and commencement


1

These Regulations may be cited as the Violent Crime Reduction Act 2006
(Specification for Imitation Firearms) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 and
come into operation on 31st October 2023.

### Interpretation


2

In these Regulations—

      “ blank-firing imitation firearm ” means an imitation firearm capable of
firing a blank cartridge;           “ inclusion ” means part of an imitation
firearm incorporated into the firearm during manufacture for the purpose of
preventing an imitation firearm being modified for use as a firearm;
“ revolver ” means a firearm that has a cylinder (containing multiple
chambers) that revolves to align each chamber in turn with the firing
mechanism and the barrel.

### Specifications for imitation firearms


3

3.1

Blank-firing imitation firearms, other than those described in paragraph (2),
must conform to the following specifications—

3.1.a

an imitation firearm must incorporate an inclusion;

3.1.b

the inclusion must be wholly made of a material which is at least as resistant
to being cut, drilled, bored, ground (or any similar process) as sintered
tungsten carbide in the range 1550-2000 HV 30 ;

3.1.c

the inclusion must wholly block the barrel and should be permanent and
incapable of being knocked out without destroying the chamber or barrel;

3.1.d

part of the inclusion must be incorporated into the rear of the dummy barrel;
and

3.1.e

the inclusion must be intended to prevent—

3.1.e.i

the creation of a hole through the dummy barrel along its axis; and

3.1.e.ii

the removal of a dummy barrel, unless the frame and chamber area of the
firearm is rendered useless as a result or its integrity so compromised that
it cannot be used to form the basis of a firearm without significant repair or
addition.

3.2

The blank-firing imitation firearms described in this paragraph are—

3.2.a

imitation revolvers; and

3.2.b

imitation firearms where the blank cartridges are loaded vertically at 90
degrees to the dummy barrel and which fire, and vent the gases produced on
discharge, in the same direction.

3.3

Blank-firing imitation revolvers must conform to the following specifications—

3.3.a

an imitation revolver must incorporate an inclusion cast into the dummy barrel
and a separate inclusion cast into the cylinder which extends to fully
obstruct all the dummy chambers;

3.3.b

the inclusions must be wholly made of a material which is at least as
resistant to being cut, drilled, bored, ground (or any similar process) as
sintered tungsten carbide in the range 1550-2000 HV 30;

3.3.c

the inclusions should be permanent and incapable of being knocked out without
destroying the chamber or barrel;

3.3.d

the barrel inclusion must wholly block the dummy barrel and part of it must be
incorporated into the rear of the dummy barrel;

3.3.e

the barrel inclusion must be intended to prevent removal of the dummy barrel,
unless the frame of the firearm is rendered useless as a result or its
integrity so compromised that it cannot be used to form the basis of a firearm
without significant repair or addition;

3.3.f

the inclusions must be intended to prevent the creation of a hole through the
dummy barrel or chamber along their axis; and

3.3.g

the revolver must vent the gases produced on discharge at not less than 80
degrees from the axis of the dummy barrel.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Justice on 2nd
October 2023         Richard Pengelly   A senior officer of the Department of
Justice

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations prescribe the specifications that imitation firearms must
conform to, pursuant to paragraph 7(A1) of Schedule 2 to the Violent Crime
Reduction Act 2006 (“ the 2006 Act ”). The underlying purpose is to prevent
imitation firearms from being converted into functioning firearms.

  Under paragraph 7(2)(a) to (c) of Schedule 2 to the 2006 Act, a person is
guilty of an offence if they: manufacture an imitation firearm which does not
conform to the prescribed specifications; modify an imitation firearm so that
it ceases to conform; or modify a firearm to create an imitation firearm that
does not conform.

  Regulation 3(1) sets out the specifications for blank-firing imitation
firearms.

  Regulation 3(3) sets out the specifications for blank-firing imitation
revolvers.

  An Impact Assessment has not been produced for these Regulations as it has
no or minimal impact on business, charities or voluntary bodies. A copy of the
Explanatory Memorandum is published alongside the Regulations on
www.legislation.gov.uk .

