Title: The School Teachers' Pay and Conditions (England) Order 2023
Date: 2024-10-23
Description: This Order makes provision for the determination of the remuneration of school teachers (within the meaning of section 122 of the Education Act 2002) in England and other conditions of employment of school teachers which relate to their professional duties and working time.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/1080

## The School Teachers' Pay and Conditions (England) Order 2023

    EDUCATION, ENGLAND

  Made   11th October 2023

  Laid before Parliament   13th October 2023

  Coming into force   3rd November 2023

      In accordance with section 125(1)(a) of the Education Act 2002  (“ the
Act ”), the Secretary of State has referred certain matters to the School
Teachers’ Review Body (“the STRB”) under section 120(1) of the Act.
After following the procedure set out in section 121  of the Act, the STRB has
reported to the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State in accordance with
section 120(3) of the Act.       In accordance with section 120(4) of the Act,
the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State have arranged for the report of
the STRB to be published.       In accordance with section 125(1)(b) of the
Act, the Secretary of State has considered the report of the STRB.       In
accordance with section 126 of the Act, the Secretary of State has consulted
such of the persons and bodies referred to in that section as appeared to the
Secretary of State to be appropriate.            The Secretary of State makes
the following Order in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 122(1),
123 and 124 of the Act.

### Citation, commencement, extent and application


1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the School Teachers' Pay and Conditions (England)
Order 2023 and comes into force on the 3rd November 2023.

1.2

This Order extends to England and Wales and applies to school teachers  in
England.

### The Document


2

2.1

The provisions set out in Section 2 of the Document have effect on and after
1st September 2023 for the purposes of determining—

2.1.a

the remuneration of school teachers; and

2.1.b

other conditions of employment of school teachers which relate to their
professional duties or working time.

2.2

In paragraph (1) “ the Document ” means the document entitled “School
teachers’ pay and conditions document 2023 and guidance on school teachers’
pay and conditions” published on the gov.uk website .

### Revocation


3

The School Teachers’ Pay and Conditions (England) (No. 2) Order 2022  and the
School Teachers’ Pay and Conditions (England) (No. 2) (Amendment) Order 2023
are revoked.

      Nick Gibb   Minister of State   Department for Education     11th
October 2023

## Explanatory Note

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order makes provision for the determination of the remuneration of
school teachers (within the meaning of section 122 of the Education Act 2002)
in England and other conditions of employment of school teachers which relate
to their professional duties and working time.

  The Order makes this provision by reference to Section 2 of a document
entitled “ School teachers’ pay and conditions document 2023 and guidance on
school teachers’ pay and conditions ” (“ the Document ”). It can be accessed
on the Government website, at  www.gov.uk . Copies are available to purchase
from TSO Customer Services, PO Box 29, Norwich, NR3 1GN, telephone 0333 202
5070 or for inspection at reasonable times at the offices of the Department
for Education, Sanctuary Buildings, Great Smith Street, London, SW1P 3BT.

  The Order makes retrospective provision, under section 123(3) of the
Education Act 2002, to provide that the provisions in Section 2 of the
Document have effect on and after 1st September 2023 notwithstanding that the
Order comes into force after that date.

  The Order revokes the School Teachers’ Pay and Conditions (England) (No. 2)
Order 2022 ( S.I. 2022/1043 ) and the School Teachers’ Pay and Conditions
(England) (No. 2) (Amendment) Order 2023 ( S.I. 2023/386 ).

  An impact assessment has not been prepared for this Order as no impact on
businesses or civil society organisations is foreseen. The impact on the
public sector is minimal.

