Title: The Recognition of Professional Qualifications and Implementation of International Recognition Agreements (Wales) (Amendment etc.) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-08-16
Description: These Regulations make provision under section 3(1) of the Professional Qualifications Act 2022 (c. 20) (“the 2022 Act”) to implement in relation to Wales provisions relating to the recognition of professional qualifications contained in the free trade agreement between Iceland, the Principality of Liechtenstein and the Kingdom of Norway and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland done at London on 8th July 2021 (“the EEA EFTA free trade agreement”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2023/1294

## The Recognition of Professional Qualifications and Implementation of International Recognition Agreements (Wales) (Amendment etc.) Regulations 2023

    Professional Qualifications, Wales

  Made   at 2.10 p.m. on 30 November 2023

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   at 4.50 p.m. on 30 November 2023

  Coming into force   1 December 2023

      The Welsh Ministers, in exercise of the powers conferred by sections
3(1), 5(2) and 13(1) of the Professional Qualifications Act 2022  (“ the 2022
Act ”), make the following Regulations.       In accordance with section 14 of
the 2022 Act, the Welsh Ministers are satisfied that the Regulations do not
remove the ability of any Welsh regulator of a Welsh regulated profession to
prevent individuals who are unfit to practise the profession from doing so,
and that the Regulations will not have a material adverse effect on any Welsh
regulated profession in terms of the knowledge, skills or experience of the
individuals practising it.       In accordance with section 15 of the 2022
Act, the Welsh Ministers have consulted with such Welsh regulators of Welsh
regulated professions as the Welsh Ministers consider are likely to be
affected by these Regulations or it is otherwise appropriate to consult.
There has also been consultation as required by Article 9 of Regulation  (EC)
No 178/2002  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2002
laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishing
the European Food Safety Authority and laying down procedures in matters of
food safety.

### Title and coming into force

1

The title of these Regulations is the Recognition of Professional
Qualifications and Implementation of International Recognition Agreements
(Wales) (Amendment etc.) Regulations 2023 and they come into force on 1
December 2023.

### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

      “ the 2022 Act ” (“ Deddf 2022 ”) means the Professional Qualifications
Act 2022;           “ the 2023 UK Regulations ” (“ Rheoliadau 2023 y DU ”)
means the Recognition of Professional Qualifications and Implementation of
International Recognition Agreements (Amendment) Regulations 2023 ;
“ adaptation period ” (“ cyfnod ymaddasu ”) means a period of supervised
practice, subject to an assessment and which may be accompanied by further
training, in a Welsh regulated profession under the responsibility of a
qualified member of that profession;           “ any other part of the United
Kingdom ” (“ unrhyw ran arall o’r Deyrnas Unedig ”) means England, Northern
Ireland or Scotland;           “ applicant ” (“ ceisydd ”) means a specified
state professional who—         wishes to access and pursue a Welsh regulated
profession for which the possession of professional qualifications is
required,           possesses professional qualifications for the same
profession in a specified state, and           makes an application;
“ application ” (“ cais ”) means an application by an applicant to a Welsh
regulator for recognition of their professional qualifications in Wales;
“ aptitude test ” (“ prawf gallu ”) means a test limited to the professional
knowledge of a specified state professional, made by the Welsh regulator with
the aim of assessing the ability of the professional to pursue a Welsh
regulated profession;           “ EEA EFTA free trade agreement ” (“ cytundeb
masnach rydd yr AEE EFTA ”) means the free trade agreement between Iceland,
the Principality of Liechtenstein and the Kingdom of Norway and the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland done at London on 8th July 2021
;           “ profession ” (“ proffesiwn ”) has the meaning given in section
19 of the 2022 Act;           “ professional activity ” (“ gweithgaredd
proffesiynol ”) means an activity which forms part of a Welsh regulated
profession;           “ professional experience ” (“ profiad proffesiynol ”)
means the lawful and effective practice of the relevant Welsh regulated
profession;           “ professional qualifications ” (“ cymwysterau
proffesiynol ”) includes qualifications or professional experience;
“ qualification ” (“ cymhwyster ”) has the meaning given in section 19 of the
2022 Act;           “ specified ” (“ penodedig ”) means specified in
regulations;           “ specified state ” (“ gwladwriaeth benodedig ”) means
a state specified in Schedule 2;           “ specified state professional ” (“
proffesiynolyn gwladwriaeth benodedig ”) means a natural person who has
obtained professional qualifications in a specified state;           “ Welsh
regulated profession ” (“ proffesiwn rheoleiddiedig Cymreig ”) means any of
the professions listed in Schedule 1;           “ Welsh regulator ” (“
rheoleiddiwr Cymreig ”), in relation to a Welsh regulated profession, means a
person having functions under legislation that relate to the regulation of the
profession in Wales.

### Amendments to legislation for the purpose of, and in connection with, the EEA EFTA free trade agreement

3

Schedule 3 contains amendments to legislation for the purpose of, and in
connection with, implementing Chapter 12 of the EEA EFTA free trade agreement
(recognition of professional qualifications).

### Amendments to legislation consequent upon the coming into force of section 5(1) of the Professional Qualifications Act 2022

4

Schedule 4 contains amendments to legislation consequent upon the coming into
force of section 5(1) of the Professional Qualifications Act 2022 (revocation
of general EU system of recognition of overseas qualifications).

### Recognition of professional qualifications

5

5.1

Subject to regulation 6, where a Welsh regulator receives an application, the
Welsh regulator must recognise the applicant’s professional qualifications in
Wales where those professional qualifications are comparable to the
professional qualifications required to access and pursue the same profession
in Wales.

5.2

A Welsh regulator that recognises an applicant’s professional qualifications
under this regulation must—

5.2.a

enable that person to access and pursue the Welsh regulated profession;

5.2.b

for the purpose of access to and pursuit of the Welsh regulated profession,
treat the applicant as if they had obtained their professional qualifications
in Wales or any other part of the United Kingdom in which the profession is
regulated.

### Refusal to recognise professional qualifications

6

6.1

A Welsh regulator may refuse to recognise an applicant’s professional
qualifications if one or more of Conditions 1, 2, 3 or 4 is met.

6.2

Condition 1 is met where—

6.2.a

there exists a substantial difference between the applicant’s professional
qualifications and the essential knowledge or skills required to practise the
Welsh regulated profession, and

6.2.b

the applicant fails to pass, or refuses to take, an aptitude test or fails, or
refuses, to complete, an adaptation period imposed in accordance with
regulation 7 (aptitude tests and adaptation periods).

6.3

Condition 2 is met where—

6.3.a

the Welsh regulated profession comprises one or more professional activities
that cover substantially different matters from those covered by the
applicant’s professional qualifications, and

6.3.b

the applicant fails to pass, or refuses to take, an aptitude test or fails, or
refuses to complete, an adaptation period imposed in accordance with
regulation 7 (aptitude tests and adaptation periods).

6.4

Condition 3 is met where requiring the applicant to take an aptitude test or
to complete an adaptation period in accordance with regulation 7 (aptitude
tests and adaptation periods) would amount to requiring the applicant to
acquire the professional qualifications required to practise the Welsh
regulated profession.

6.5

Condition 4 is met where access to and pursuit of a Welsh regulated profession
by a person whose professional qualifications were obtained in Wales or any
other part of the United Kingdom is subject to conditions other than the
possession of specific professional qualifications and the applicant fails to
meet those conditions.

### Aptitude tests and adaptation periods

7

7.1

A Welsh regulator may require an applicant to take an aptitude test,
standardised or otherwise, or to complete an adaptation period where—

7.1.a

there exists a substantial difference between the applicant’s professional
qualifications and the essential knowledge or skills required to practise the
Welsh regulated profession, or

7.1.b

the Welsh regulated profession comprises one or more professional activities
that cover substantially different matters from those covered by the
applicant’s professional qualifications.

7.2

A Welsh regulator must consider whether any requirement to take an aptitude
test or to complete an adaptation period is proportionate to the difference
sought to be addressed.

7.3

If requested to do so by an applicant, a Welsh regulator must, to the extent
possible, provide its reasons in writing for requiring the applicant to take
an aptitude test or to complete an adaptation period.

7.4

Where a Welsh regulator requires applicants to undertake an aptitude test, the
Welsh regulator must schedule tests with reasonable frequency and at least
once a year, where applicable.

### Procedure to be followed on application for recognition

8

8.1

A Welsh regulator must—

8.1.a

acknowledge receipt of the application within one month of receipt and inform
the applicant if any document is missing from the application;

8.1.b

give the applicant adequate time to complete the requirements and procedures
of the application process;

8.1.c

deal promptly with the application and notify the applicant of its decision in
writing before the end of the period of four months beginning with the day
after the day on which the complete application was submitted.

8.2

A Welsh regulator may require an applicant to provide evidence of their
professional qualifications.

8.3

The evidence a Welsh regulator may require under paragraph (2) must be no more
than is necessary to demonstrate that the applicant holds professional
qualifications that are comparable to the professional qualifications required
to access and pursue the Welsh regulated profession.

8.4

Where access to, and pursuit of, a Welsh regulated profession by a person
whose professional qualifications were obtained in Wales or any other part of
the United Kingdom is subject to conditions other than the possession of
specific professional qualifications, a Welsh regulator may require the
applicant to provide evidence to demonstrate that they satisfy those
conditions.

8.5

The evidence a Welsh regulator may require under paragraph (4) must be no more
than is necessary to demonstrate that the applicant satisfies those
conditions.

8.6

A Welsh regulator must accept copies of documents authenticated in accordance
with the law of the United Kingdom in place of originals unless it requires
original documents to protect the integrity of the recognition process.

### Knowledge of language

9

9.1

A Welsh regulator may require that an applicant demonstrates they possess the
language skills necessary for practice of a Welsh regulated profession.

9.2

If a Welsh regulator requires an applicant to undertake a language test, the
test must be proportionate to the activity to be pursued.

### Appeals

10

A Welsh regulator must provide a right of appeal for an applicant against its—

10.a

decision to refuse to recognise an applicant’s professional qualifications,
and

10.b

failure to notify the applicant of its decision in respect of an application
within the time period referred to in regulation 8(1)(c).

### Fees

11

11.1

A Welsh regulator may charge such fees as they consider appropriate in
connection with an application.

11.2

Any fees charged by a Welsh regulator in connection with an application must
be—

11.2.a

reasonable and proportionate to the cost of the application,

11.2.b

transparent, and made public in advance, and

11.2.c

payable by electronic means through the Welsh regulator’s website.

### Provision of information

12

A Welsh regulator must make available to specified state professionals
information about—

12.a

the professional qualifications required and any other conditions that apply
to practise a Welsh regulated profession,

12.b

the relevant laws to be applied regarding disciplinary action, financial
responsibility or liability and any other relevant matters,

12.c

the principles of discipline and enforcement of professional standards,
including disciplinary jurisdiction and consequential effects on practising a
Welsh regulated profession,

12.d

the processes and procedures for the ongoing verification of competence,

12.e

the criteria for, and procedures relating to, revocation of registration,

12.f

the documentation required of professionals and the form in which it should be
presented, and

12.g

the acceptance of documents and certificates issued in relation to
professional qualifications and other conditions that apply to the practice of
a Welsh regulated profession.

### Enquiries relating to professional qualifications and other conditions of practice

13

A Welsh regulator must deal promptly with enquiries from specified state
professionals about—

13.a

the professional qualifications required to practise the Welsh regulated
profession, and

13.b

the conditions that apply to the practice of the Welsh regulated profession.

### Amendments to the 2023 UK Regulations

14

14.1

The 2023 UK Regulations are amended as follows.

14.2

In regulation 2 (extent and application)—

14.2.a

in paragraph (1), after “paragraph (2)”, insert  “and (3)” ;

14.2.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

14.2.b.3

Paragraphs 1, 2, 6 and 7 of Schedule 3 do not apply in relation to Wales.

14.3

In regulation 3(2) (interpretation), after “Schedule 2” insert—

      or a “ Welsh regulator ” as defined by the Recognition of Professional
Qualifications and Implementation of International Recognition Agreements
(Wales) (Amendment etc.) Regulations 2023

.

      Jeremy Miles   Minister for Education and Welsh Language, one of the
Welsh Ministers     At 2.10 p.m. on 30 November 2023

The Welsh regulated professions referred to in regulation 2 (interpretation)

Regulation 2

A1

Adult learning practitioner

1

Agricultural analyst

2

Food analyst

3

Food examiner

3A

Further education teacher

4

Professional driver and attendant engaged in the transport of livestock,
equines and poultry

5

Public analyst

6

School teacher

7

Slaughterer

8

Social care manager

9

Social worker

10

Social care worker in a—

10.a

care home service

10.b

domiciliary support service

10.c

residential family centre service

10.d

secure accommodation service

11

Youth support worker

12

Youth worker

  The specified states

Regulation 2

1

Iceland

2

The Kingdom of Norway

3

The Principality of Liechtenstein

  Amendments for the purpose of, and in connection with, implementing the EEA
EFTA free trade agreement

Regulation 3

##### Amendments in relation to education professions

###### Amendments to the School Teachers’ Qualifications (Wales) Regulations 2012

1

1.1

The School Teachers’ Qualifications (Wales) Regulations 2012  are amended as
follows.

1.2

In Schedule 2 (qualified teacher status requirements), after paragraph 4A
insert—

1.2.4B

Persons who are, as respects the profession of school teacher, entitled to
practise pursuant to the Recognition of Professional Qualifications and
Implementation of International Recognition Agreements (Wales) (Amendment
etc.) Regulations 2023.

###### Amendments to the Education (Induction Arrangements for School Teachers) (Wales) Regulations 2015

2

2.1

The Education (Induction Arrangements for School Teachers) (Wales) Regulations
2015  are amended as follows.

2.2

In paragraph 8 of Schedule 2 (cases in which a person may be employed as a
teacher in a relevant school without having satisfactorily completed an
induction period), for “paragraph 4 or 4A” substitute  “paragraph 4, 4A or 4B”
.

###### Amendments to the Education Workforce Council (Registration of Youth Workers, Youth Support Workers and Work Based Learning Practitioners) Order 2016

3

3.1

The Education Workforce Council (Registration of Youth Workers, Youth Support
Workers and Work Based Learning Practitioners) Order 2016  is amended as
follows.

3.2

In article 2 (interpretation), in the appropriate place insert—

      “ the 2023 Regulations ” (“ Rheoliadau 2023 ”) means the Recognition of
Professional Qualifications and Implementation of International Recognition
Agreements (Wales) (Amendment etc.) Regulations 2023;

.

3.3

In paragraph 2 (alternative requirements) of Schedule 1 (youth workers)—

3.3.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (a), delete “or”;

3.3.b

at the end of sub-paragraph (b), for “.” substitute  “,” ;

3.3.c

after sub-paragraph (b) insert—

3.3.c.c

is, as respects the profession of youth worker, entitled to practise pursuant
to the 2023 Regulations, or

.

3.4

In paragraph 7 (alternative requirements) of Schedule 2 (youth support
workers)—

3.4.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (a), delete “or”;

3.4.b

at the end of sub-paragraph (b), for “.” substitute  “,” ;

3.4.c

after sub-paragraph (b) insert—

3.4.c.c

is, as respects the profession of youth support worker, entitled to practise
pursuant to the 2023 Regulations, or

.

##### Amendments in relation to F-gas handler professions

###### Amendments to 

4

4.1

Regulation (EU) No  517/2014  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
16 April 2014 on fluorinated greenhouse gases and repealing Regulation  (EC)
No 842/2006  is amended as follows.

4.2

In Article 10 (training and certification)—

4.2.a

in paragraph 10, after “as amended from time to time,” insert  “or
certificates and training attestations issued by an EEA EFTA state that are
equivalent to those issued in any part of the United Kingdom,” ;

4.2.b

after paragraph 15, insert—

4.2.b.16

For the purposes of this Article, an ‘EEA EFTA state’ means—

4.2.b.16.a

Norway,

4.2.b.16.b

Iceland, or

4.2.b.16.c

Liechtenstein.

###### Amendments to the Ozone-Depleting Substances Regulations 2015

5

5.1

The Ozone-Depleting Substances Regulations 2015  are amended as follows.

5.2

In regulation 4 (meaning of “ competent ”)—

5.2.a

in paragraph (a), after “column 3 of that Table”, insert  “, or has obtained
the equivalent of those qualifications in an EEA EFTA state” ;

5.2.b

for paragraph (c), substitute—

5.2.b.c

a person is competent to carry out work with methyl bromide if that person
has—

5.2.b.c.i

obtained the British Pest Control Association Certificate of Proficiency for
Fumigation Operators  and successfully completed the British Pest Control
Association module referred to in the list in Schedule 3 which relates to the
work in question; or

5.2.b.c.ii

obtained an equivalent certificate, and successfully completed an equivalent
module, in an EEA EFTA state.

5.2.c

after paragraph (c), insert—

5.2.c.d

For the purposes of this regulation, an “ EEA EFTA state ” means—

5.2.c.d.i

Norway,

5.2.c.d.ii

Iceland, or

5.2.c.d.iii

Liechtenstein.

##### Amendments in relation to food examiners

###### Amendments to the Food Safety (Sampling and Qualifications) (Wales) Regulations 2013

6

6.1

The Food Safety (Sampling and Qualifications) (Wales) Regulations 2013  are
amended as follows.

6.2

In regulation 2 (interpretation), at the appropriate place insert—

      “ specified state ” (“ gwladwriaeth benodedig ”) means a state specified
in Schedule 2 to the Recognition of Professional Qualifications and the
Implementation of International Recognition Agreements (Wales) (Amendment
etc.) Regulations 2023;

.

6.3

In Schedule 2 (qualifications of food examiners)—

6.3.a

in Part 1, in paragraph 6, after “a member State of the European Union” insert
“or in a specified state” ;

6.3.b

in Part 2—

6.3.b.i

in paragraph 2, after “a member State of the European Union” insert  “or of a
specified state” ;

6.3.b.ii

in paragraph 4, after “a member State of the European Union” insert  “or of a
specified state” .

##### Amendments in relation to professions in animal welfare

###### Amendments to Council Regulation 

7

7.1

Council Regulation  (EC) No 1/2005  of 22 December 2004 on the protection of
animals during transport and related operations  is amended as follows.

7.2

In Annex 4 (training), after paragraph 3, insert—

7.2.4

Where a road driver or attendant holds a qualification which, by virtue of the
Recognition of Professional Qualifications and Implementation of International
Recognition Agreements (Wales) (Amendment etc.) Regulations 2023, is
recognised by the competent authority, the road driver or attendant (as the
case may be) is to be treated as having met the requirements of paragraph 1.

###### Amendments to Council Regulation 

8

8.1

Council Regulation  (EC) No 1099/2009  of 24 September 2009 on the protection
of animals at the time of killing  is amended as follows.

8.2

In Article 21, in paragraph 1, after point (c), insert—

8.2.d

delivering certificates of competence to persons whose qualifications have
been recognised for those purposes under the Recognition of Professional
Qualifications and Implementation of International Recognition Agreements
(Wales) (Amendment etc.) Regulations 2023.

###### Amendments to the Welfare of Animals at the Time of Killing (Wales) Regulations 2014

9

9.1

The Welfare of Animals at the Time of Killing (Wales) Regulations 2014  are
amended as follows.

9.2

In regulation 3(1) (interpretation)—

9.2.a

in the definition of “evidence of training and examination”, after sub-
paragraph (ab), insert—

9.2.a.ac

a qualification which has been recognised under the Professional
Qualifications Regulations 2023 in relation to an operation specified in
regulation 6,

;

9.2.b

after the definition of “local authority”, insert—

      “ the Professional Qualifications Regulations 2023 ” (“ Rheoliadau
Cymwysterau Proffesiynol 2023 ”) means the Recognition of Professional
Qualifications and Implementation of International Recognition Agreements
(Wales) (Amendment etc.) Regulations 2023;

.

9.3

In regulation 22 (appeals)—

9.3.a

after paragraph (1), insert—

9.3.a.1A

A person who has applied for recognition of a qualification under the
Professional Qualifications Regulations 2023 in relation to an operation
specified in regulation 6 may appeal against a decision of the competent
authority not to recognise the person’s qualification for those purposes.

;

9.3.b

after paragraph (4), insert—

9.3.b.5

In paragraph (1A), the reference to a decision of the competent authority not
to recognise a person’s qualification under the Professional Qualifications
Regulations 2023 is to be treated as including any failure by the competent
authority to notify the applicant of its decision concerning the person’s
application within the period of four months beginning with the day after the
day on which the person submitted a complete application to the competent
authority under the Professional Qualifications Regulations 2023.

  Amendments consequent upon the coming into force of section 5(1) of the
Professional Qualifications Act 2022

Regulation 4

##### Amendments in relation to education professions

###### Amendments to the School Teachers’ Qualifications (Wales) Regulations 2012

1

1.1

The School Teachers’ Qualifications (Wales) Regulations 2012  are amended as
follows.

1.2

In paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 (qualified teacher status requirements)—

1.2.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (b), omit “or”;

1.2.b

at the end of sub-paragraph (c), for “.” substitute  “; or” ;

1.2.c

after sub-paragraph (c), insert—

1.2.c.d

a decision taken or determination made under the 2015 European Union
Regulations in accordance with paragraphs 1, 2(2) and (3) of Schedule 1 to the
Professional Qualifications Act 2022 (Commencement No. 3) Regulations 2023 .

###### Amendments to the Education Workforce Council (Registration of Youth Workers, Youth Support Workers and Work Based Learning Practitioners) Order 2016

2

2.1

The Education Workforce Council (Registration of Youth Workers, Youth Support
Workers and Work Based Learning Practitioners) Order 2016  is amended as
follows.

2.2

In article 2 (interpretation), in the appropriate place insert—

      “ the 2023 Commencement Regulations ” (“ Rheoliadau Cychwyn 2023 ”)
means the Professional Qualifications Act 2022 (Commencement No. 3)
Regulations 2023 ;

.

2.3

In paragraph 2 (alternative requirements) of Schedule 1 (youth workers), after
sub-paragraph (c) insert—

2.3.d

is authorised to practice as a youth worker by virtue of a decision taken or
determination made under the 2015 Regulations in accordance with paragraphs 1,
2(2) and (3) of Schedule 1 to the 2023 Commencement Regulations.

2.4

In paragraph 7 (alternative requirements) of Schedule 2 (youth support
workers), after sub-paragraph (c) insert—

2.4.d

is authorised to practice as a youth support worker by virtue of a decision
taken or determination made under the 2015 Regulations in accordance with
paragraphs 1, 2(2) and (3) of Schedule 1 to the 2023 Commencement Regulations.

##### Amendments in relation to social care professions

###### Amendment to Regulation and Inspection of Social Care (Qualifications) (Wales) (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019

3

3.1

The Regulation and Inspection of Social Care (Qualifications) (Wales)
(Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019  are amended as follows.

3.2

Omit regulation 15C.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision under section 3(1) of the Professional
Qualifications Act  2022 (c. 20)  (“ the 2022 Act ”) to implement in relation
to Wales provisions relating to the recognition of professional qualifications
contained in the free trade agreement between Iceland, the Principality of
Liechtenstein and the Kingdom of Norway and the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland done at London on 8th July 2021 (“ the EEA EFTA
free trade agreement ”).

  Section 3(1) of the 2022 Act gives the appropriate national authority the
power by regulations to make such provision as the authority considers
appropriate for the purpose of, or in connection with, implementing any
international recognition agreement to which the United Kingdom is a party.
The Secretary of State used this power, amongst others, to make the
Recognition of Professional Qualifications and Implementation of International
Recognition Agreements (Amendment) Regulations 2023 ( S.I. 2023/1286 ”) (“ the
UK 2023 Regulations ”) to implement the EEA EFTA free trade agreement across
the UK.

  Paragraph 10 (foreign affairs etc.) of Schedule 7A (reserved matters) to the
Government of Wales Act  2006 (c. 32)  provides that observing and
implementing international obligations is not a reserved matter.

  The UK 2023 Regulations include provision to implement the EEA EFTA free
trade agreement in relation to subject areas which are devolved to Wales and
impose statutory duties on regulators which the Senedd has the legislative
competence to make.

  These Regulations amend the UK 2023 Regulations to provide that they do not
apply to the regulators of the regulated professions listed in Schedule 1 in
respect of which the Senedd has legislative competence, defined as “Welsh
regulated professions”. These Regulations also make provision to implement the
EEA EFTA free trade agreement in relation to the Welsh regulated professions.

  Schedule 3 contains amendments to sectoral legislation for the purpose of,
and in connection with, implementing provisions relating to the recognition of
professional qualifications in the EEA EFTA free trade agreement.

  Schedule 4 contains amendments to sectoral legislation consequent upon the
coming into force of section 5(1) of the 2022 Act and the revocation of the
European Union (Recognition of Professional Qualifications) Regulations 2015 (
S.I. 2015/2059 ) which provided a general system of recognition for
qualifications from the European Economic Area and Switzerland. Following the
end of the EU exit transition period, this system had been retained in the
interim, enabling those holding EEA and Swiss qualifications to have their
qualifications recognised in the UK. The 2022 Act revokes this system and
establishes a new approach based on regulator autonomy and implementation of
international agreements.

  The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory
Impact Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a
result, a regulatory impact assessment has been prepared as to the likely
costs and benefits of complying with these Regulations. A copy can be obtained
from the Welsh Government, Cathays Park, Cardiff, CF10 3NQ.

