Title: The Level Crossing (Cullybackey Station) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-04-13
Description: This Order provides for the provision and maintenance of manually controlled barriers supervised by closed circuit television at Cullybackey Station Level Crossing. Section 47 of the Railways Clauses Consolidation Act 1845 (which requires the railway undertaking to provide gates and gate-keepers), section 6 of the Railways Clauses Act 1863 (requirements as to lodges, etc.) and any other statutory provision imposing requirements to the same or similar effect, shall not apply to the crossing whilst this Order remains in force.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/10

## The Level Crossing (Cullybackey Station) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Road And Railway Transport

  Made   27th January 2023

  Coming into operation   20th February 2023

      The railway undertaking made an application to the Department for
Infrastructure  in accordance with section 66(4) of the Transport Act
(Northern Ireland) 1967 ;       Before making the application the railway
undertaking gave notice in accordance with section 66(5) and (6) of that Act
to the council in whose district the crossing is situated;       The
Department did not receive from that council any representation in respect of
the said application;           The Department for Infrastructure makes the
following Order in exercise of the powers conferred by section 66(1) and (2)
of the Transport Act (Northern Ireland) 1967 and now vested in it .

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Level Crossing (Cullybackey Station) Order
(Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation on 20 th  February 2023.

1.2

In this Order “ the crossing ” means the Cullybackey Station Level Crossing in
the Borough of Ballymena and the County of Antrim whereby the road known as
Station Road/Fenagh Road is crossed by the railway between Ballymena and
Ballymoney Stations (NI Grid Reference D 062 057).

### Suspension of statutory provisions

2

While this Order remains in force—

2.a

section 47 of the Railways Clauses Consolidation Act 1845  (requirements as to
gates);

2.b

section 6 of the Railways Clauses Act 1863  (requirements as to lodges, etc);
and

2.c

any other statutory provision imposing requirements to the same or similar
effect as those contained in the enactments mentioned in paragraphs (a) and
(b),

shall not apply in relation to the crossing.

### Provision of equipment

3

The railway undertaking shall at the crossing—

3.a

provide, maintain and operate the barrier, lights, automatic and other
devices, excluding traffic signs specified in Schedule 1, and shall give
notice in writing to the Department for Infrastructure as soon as the
provision thereof is complete;

3.b

secure the provision, maintenance and operation by that Department of the
traffic signs specified in Schedule 1; and

3.c

comply with the conditions and requirements specified in Schedule 2.

### Revocation

4

The Level Crossing (Cullybackey Station) Order (Northern Ireland) 1985  is
hereby revoked.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Infrastructure on
27th January 2023.         Chris Hughes   A senior officer of the Department
for Infrastructure

  PARTICULARS OF THE BARRIERS, LIGHTS, TRAFFIC SIGNS AND OTHER DEVICES

Article 3 (a) and (b)

1

Cattle-cum-trespass guards of standard railway design shall be provided
adjacent to the ground, which is made up to the level of the carriageway. The
guards shall extend the full distance between the fence on each side of the
railway.

2

A barrier shall be provided and pivoted as close to the railway on both sides
of the road on each approach to the crossing. Barriers shall be aligned as
parallel to the railway as practicable to reduce the crossing length.

3

It shall be possible to raise and lower the barriers. When lowered, the
barriers shall be as nearly horizontal as possible and shall extend across the
full width of the carriageway and the footway.

4

When the barriers are fully lowered, their uppermost surfaces shall be not
less than 900mm above the road surface at the centre of the carriageway and
the under-clearance between the barrier and the road shall not exceed 1 metre.

5

When in the fully raised position, the barrier shall be inclined towards the
carriageway an angle of between 5 and 10 degrees from the vertical. No part of
either barrier or of any attachment thereto which is less than 5 metres above
the level of the carriageway shall be horizontally displaced from the nearer
edge of the carriageway by less than 450mm. No part of any barrier or any
attachment thereto which in either case is less than 2 metres above the level
of the footway shall normally be horizontally displaced from the edge of the
footway further from the carriageway by less than 150mm.

6

The barriers shall be as light as possible but shall also be strong enough to
prevent distortion or fracture likely to be caused by wind pressure. It shall
be possible to raise them by hand.

7

The barriers shall be fitted with skirts so arranged that when the barriers
are lowered the skirts fence in the space between the barrier and the ground.

8

Three electric lamps, or equivalent (light emitting diodes) each of not less
than 5 watts nominal rating or equivalent and with lenses not less than 50mm
diameter, shall be fitted to each barrier, one within 150mm of its tip and the
other 2 equally spaced. When illuminated, the lamps shall show a red light in
each direction along the carriageway.

9

The barriers shall display on both front and rear faces alternate red and
white bands each approximately 600mm long and to the full depth of the
barriers. A band of red retro-reflecting material not less than 50mm deep
shall be provided along the length of each red band.

10

Suitable screening shall be provided for each barrier machine to guard against
danger to persons from the operating mechanisms and moving parts of the
machine.

11

A traffic light signal of the size, colour and type shown in Diagram 3104 of
the Regulations shall be provided on the left-hand side of the road on each
approach to the crossing and as close as practicable to the barrier. There
shall be an additional traffic light signal of the same type on the right-hand
side of the road on each approach to the crossing so located to be either in
line with or on the railway side of the stop line mentioned in paragraph 13.
The traffic light signals on each side of the railway shall be positioned so
as to face outwards from the crossing towards approaching traffic. All the
signals shall be capable of directional adjustment.

12

An audible warning device shall be provided on or adjacent to each left hand
side traffic light signal post on each approach to the crossing. Facilities
shall be provided to reduce the sound output of these devices and any reduced
sound output shall operate to suit local day and night conditions.

13

A reflectorised stop line of the size and type shown in Diagram 1001 in the
Regulations shall be provided across the left-hand side of carriageway on each
approach to the crossing approximately 1 metre before the left-hand side
traffic signal. Where this is not achievable due to crossing skew, the stop
line shall be positioned in line with or in front of the duplicate traffic
light signal. A stop line shall not be located behind a road traffic light
signal in any circumstances.

14

Where the road passes over the crossing, reflectorised edge of road markings
of the size and type shown in Diagram 1012.1 in the Regulations shall be
provided along each edge of the carriageway or made-up ground along each edge
of the carriageway.

15

The centre line of the carriageway shall be marked on the crossing between the
stop lines mentioned in paragraph 13 and for a distance of approximately 38
metres on the north east side and for a distance of 40 metres on the south
west side of the railway measured along the centre of the carriageway from
stop lines with a reflectorised double continuous line road marking of the
size and type shown in Diagram 1013.1A in the Regulations.

16

At least two carriageway markings of the size, colour and type shown in
Diagram 1014 in the Regulations shall be marked on the carriageway in an
appropriate position on the approach side of the road marking described in
paragraph 15.

17

A traffic sign of the size, colour and type shown in Diagram 770 in the
Regulations shall be provided on the left-hand side of each road approach to
the crossing facing traffic approaching the crossing. Below this, a traffic
sign of the size, colour and type shown in Diagram 773 in the Regulations
shall be provided facing traffic approaching the crossing.

18

An additional traffic sign of the size, colour and type shown in Diagram 770
in the Regulations shall be provided on the left hand side of the road
approach for traffic leaving Ard Na Maine. Below this a traffic sign of the
size, colour and type shown in Diagram 773 and 573 in the Regulations shall be
provided facing traffic approaching the junction.

19

An additional traffic sign of the size, colour and type shown in Diagram 770
in the Regulations shall be provided on the left hand side of the road
approach for traffic leaving Markstown Crescent. Below this a traffic sign of
the size, colour and type shown in Diagrams 773 and 573 in the Regulations
shall be provided facing traffic approaching the junction.

20

There shall be a signal control centre at Coleraine. A closed-circuit
television camera shall be provided at the crossing and shall be connected to
a viewing monitor adjacent to the crossing control point in the control
centre.

21

The control point shall have push-buttons to:

21.a

lower the barriers – the ‘lower’ push-button;

21.b

raise the barriers – the ‘raise’ push-button;

21.c

release the protecting signals – the ‘crossing-clear’ push-button; and

21.d

stop the lowering or raising of the barriers – the ‘stop’ push-button.

22

Facilities shall be provided at the crossing to operate the barriers and other
protective equipment.

23

Lighting shall be provided as necessary so that during the hours of darkness
in conditions of normal visibility it can be seen from the control point that
the crossing is clear whilst the barriers are being lowered, and until the
‘crossing-clear’ push-button is pressed.

24

Protecting railway signals shall be provided. Whilst the barriers are raised
the railway signals will be set at danger and it shall not be possible to
clear those signals. It will also be possible to raise the barriers from their
positions across the carriageway by hand or under local control.

25

In this Schedule “ the Regulations ” means the Traffic Signs Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 1997 .

  CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS TO BE COMPLIED WITH BY THE RAILWAY UNDERTAKING

Article 3 (c)

1

The carriageway shall be approximately 6.15 metres wide at the crossing.

2

The ground at the two edge of the carriageway over the crossing shall be made-
up to the level of the carriageway for the distance of approximately 1.8
metres beyond the edge to the north west and 1.5 metres beyond the edge to the
south east, forming footways to either side of the carriageway.

3

The surface of the carriageway and footway/run-off areas over the crossing
shall be maintained in good and even condition.

4

The barriers shall be kept in the fully raised position except during the time
when engines, carriages or other vehicles passing along the railway have
occasion to cross the road.

5

The electric lamps or equivalent (light emitting diodes) on each barrier
mentioned in Schedule 1 shall be lit at all times except when the barriers are
in the fully raised position.

6

The crossing shall be illuminated during the hours of darkness to such a
standard that the operator can ascertain in conditions of normal visibility
that the crossing is clear before the barriers are fully lowered.

7

The protecting signals shall be controlled from the signalling control centre
containing the crossing control point.

8

The picture of the crossing shall be exhibited on the television monitor
before the sequence of events to close the crossing to road traffic begins.
The picture shall continue to be exhibited until either the barriers are fully
raised after the ‘raise’ push-button is pressed, or if automatic raising is in
operation after the ‘crossing-clear’ push-button is pressed.

9

Visual indictors and an audible alarm shall be provided at the control point.
The indicators shall show when:

9.a

the main power supply is available;

9.b

all barriers are fully raised;

9.c

all the barriers are fully lowered;

9.d

at least one of the intermittent red lights of the traffic light signals on
each side of the railway is showing along the carriageway.

10

The audible alarm shall sound if:

10.a

any barrier is horizontally dislocated when in the fully lowered position;

10.b

the main power supply fails;

10.c

all the red traffic light signals facing in one direction fail.

11

When the ‘lower’ push-button is pressed, or the train initiates the automatic
lower sequence, the sequence of events to close the crossing to road traffic
shall begin. The sequence shall be:

11.a

the amber lamps shall immediately show, and the audible warning shall begin.
The lights shall show for approximately 3 seconds;

11.b

immediately the amber lamps are extinguished the intermittent red lights shall
show;

11.c

4 to 6 seconds later, the left-hand side barriers shall begin to descend and
shall take a further 6 to 10 seconds to reach the lowered position;

11.d

all boom lights shall illuminate when the first barrier moves out of the fully
raised position;

11.e

once the entrance barriers have reached the down position the right-hand side
barriers shall then begin to descend taking 6 to 10 seconds to reach the
lowered position;

11.f

the audible warning shall stop when all the barriers are fully lowered;

11.g

the train can then approach and pass over the crossing.

12

The arrangements shall be such that the protecting railway signals can only be
cleared after the barriers are fully lowered and the ‘crossing clear’ push-
button has been pressed. Unless the protecting signals have been cleared for
another train, all the barriers shall rise simultaneously either after the
‘raise’ push-button has been pressed or automatically as soon as the train has
passed clear of the crossing.

13

If a train overruns a protecting signal the arrangements shall be such that
the red lights will immediately show omitting the amber sequence, the audible
warning shall sound and all barriers remain in the raised position.

14

Stowmarket Controls will be provided for signal CE283 at Cullybackey Station.
When the Automatic Lower/ Stowmarket sequence is initiated the normal traffic
light sequence of amber followed by flashing red lights shall begin. If
Automatic Lower is selected and the route is set, the crossing closure
sequence shall continue by lowering the barriers. If Automatic Lower is not
available and selected or the route not set, an audible alarm shall sound when
the traffic light signals are initiated and the barriers shall not lower
without the signaller’s intervention. The barriers can be lowered at any time
by the operation of the ‘Lower’ button or the traffic light signals can be
cancelled by pressing the ‘Stop’ or ‘Raise’ button after a period of time that
will have proved the train at a stand.

15

The intermittent red lights shall continue to show until the barriers have
begun to rise and shall be extinguished before the barriers have risen to an
angle of 45 degrees above the horizontal.

16

If, during the lowering sequence, both red road lights on any RTL are failed
before the point in the sequence that the barriers are due to start lowering,
then the barriers shall remain in the raised position. In this situation, the
barriers can only be lowered from the local control unit until the fault is
rectified. Once the barriers have begun to lower a further red light failure
shall not stop or prevent them lowering.

17

If the barriers do not achieve the fully raised position within 10 seconds of
starting to raise, then the barriers stop in their present positions. The red
RTL’s shall re-illuminate and a failed indication and alarm is given at the
supervising control centre. A further 2 seconds may be added if required to
allow for relay operation.

18

A failure indication can only be extinguished when the barriers are either in
the fully raised or fully lowered position. In the fully raised position, the
failure indication shall only extinguish if the RTL’s are also extinguished.
RTL’s shall be taken to be extinguished if the controls are set for them to be
extinguished. No light proving is required.

19

If automatic lowering or raising should take an abnormally long time an
audible and visual warning shall be given at the control point.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  This Order provides for the provision and maintenance of manually controlled
barriers supervised by closed circuit television at Cullybackey Station Level
Crossing. Section 47 of the Railways Clauses Consolidation Act 1845 (which
requires the railway undertaking to provide gates and gate-keepers), section 6
of the Railways Clauses Act 1863 (requirements as to lodges, etc.) and any
other statutory provision imposing requirements to the same or similar effect,
shall not apply to the crossing whilst this Order remains in force.

  Schedule 1 sets out the particulars of barriers, lights, traffic signs and
other devices, which are to be provided at the crossing. Schedule 2 states the
condition and requirements with which the railway undertaking is to comply in
relation to the crossing.

  This Order revokes the Level Crossing (Cullybackey Station) Order (Northern
Ireland) 1985, ( S.R. 1985 No. 339 ).

