Title: The School Discipline (Pupil Exclusions and Reviews) (England) (Amendment and Transitional Provision) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations, while extending to the legal jurisdiction of England and Wales, apply only in relation to England.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/571

## The School Discipline (Pupil Exclusions and Reviews) (England) (Amendment and Transitional Provision) Regulations 2023

    Education, England

  Made   23rd May 2023

  Laid before Parliament   25th May 2023

  Coming into force   1st September 2023

      The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 51A(3)(c) and (e), (8)(d) and (12) and 210(7)
of the Education Act 2002 .

### General

#### Citation, commencement, extent and application

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the School Discipline (Pupil Exclusions and
Reviews) (England) (Amendment and Transitional Provision) Regulations 2023,
and they come into force on 1st September 2023.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales.

1.3

These Regulations apply in relation to  ... exclusions of pupils from
maintained schools, pupil referral units and Academies in England.

#### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

      “ the 2012 Regulations ” means the School Discipline (Pupil Exclusions
and Reviews) (England) Regulations 2012 ;           “ Academy ” means an
Academy school or alternative provision Academy.

#### Amendment of the 2012 Regulations

3

The 2012 Regulations are amended in accordance with regulations 4 to 14.

#### Amendment of regulation 2 of the 2012 Regulations

4

In regulation 2 (interpretation), in paragraph (1)—

4.a

omit the definition of “coronavirus”;

4.b

before the definition of “home local authority” insert—

      extraordinary events or unforeseen circumstances” means extraordinary
events or unforeseen circumstances arising after a meeting has been agreed to
take place in person;

;

4.c

omit the definition of “relevant exclusion”;

4.d

after the definition of “remote access” insert—

      “ remote meeting request ” means a request by a relevant person for a
meeting to be held using remote access;

.

### Maintained Schools

#### Amendments relating to remote access meetings

##### Amendment of regulation 5 of the 2012 Regulations

5

5.1

Regulation 5 (exclusion of pupils: head teacher’s duty to inform relevant
person, governing body, local authority, social worker and virtual school
head) is amended as follows.

5.2

After paragraph (3)(b)(ii) insert—

5.2.iia

where a meeting of the governing body is to consider the exclusion, that a
remote meeting request may be made, if the relevant person wishes to be able
to attend the meeting using remote access;

.

5.3

In paragraph (3)(b)(iii) and (iv), after “representations” insert  “or a
remote meeting request” .

##### Amendment of regulation 6 of the 2012 Regulations

6

6.1

Regulation 6 (functions of the governing body in relation to excluded pupils)
is amended as follows.

6.2

For paragraph (3A) substitute—

6.2.3A

Paragraph (3B) applies if a remote meeting request has been made.

.

6.3

In paragraph (3B)—

6.3.a

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “may” substitute  “must” ;

6.3.b

omit sub-paragraph (b).

6.4

After paragraph (3C) insert—

6.4.3D

Where—

6.4.3D.a

a social worker or virtual school head; or

6.4.3D.b

their nominated representative as referred to in paragraph (3C),

attends a meeting referred to in paragraph (3)(c) which is taking place in
person, they may do so using remote access provided the governing body are
satisfied that the conditions referred to in paragraph (3B)(a), (c) and (d)
are met.

6.4.3E

Paragraph (3F) applies if—

6.4.3E.a

for a reason related to extraordinary events or unforeseen circumstances, it
is not reasonably practicable for the meeting referred to in paragraph (3)(c)
to be held in person; and

6.4.3E.b

the meeting is not already required to take place using remote access pursuant
to paragraph (3B).

6.4.3F

Where this paragraph applies, the meeting referred to in paragraph (3)(c) may
be held using remote access, provided the governing body are satisfied that
the conditions referred to in paragraph (3B)(a), (c) and (d) are met.

6.4.3G

Subject to the exception made for persons referred to in paragraph (3D), a
meeting referred to in paragraph (3)(c) must be held in person unless—

6.4.3G.a

a remote meeting request is made; or

6.4.3G.b

for a reason related to extraordinary events or unforeseen circumstances, it
is not reasonably practicable for the meeting to be held in person,

and the governing body are satisfied that the conditions in paragraph (3B)(a),
(c) and (d) are met.

.

6.5

In paragraph (6)(b)—

6.5.a

after paragraph (iv) insert—

6.5.a.iva

where a meeting of the review panel is to review the governing body’s
decision, that a remote meeting request may be made, if the relevant person
wishes to be able to attend the meeting using remote access;

;

6.5.b

in paragraph (v)—

6.5.b.i

after “for a review” insert  “or a remote meeting request” ;

6.5.b.ii

for “and what the application” substitute  “, and what these” ;

6.5.c

in paragraph (vi)—

6.5.c.i

after “the application” insert  “or remote meeting request” ;

6.5.c.ii

for “and the date by which the application” substitute  “, and the date by
which these” .

6.6

In paragraph (7), for “paragraphs (7A), (7B), (7C), (7D) and” substitute
“paragraphs (7E), (7F) and” .

6.7

Omit paragraphs (7A) to (7D).

6.8

Before paragraph (8) insert—

6.8.7E

Paragraph (7F) applies where, immediately before the applicable time limit
referred to in paragraph (7)(a) or (b) expires, the meeting referred to in
paragraph (3)(c) has not been held because—

6.8.7E.a

it has not been reasonably practicable to meet in person for a reason related
to extraordinary events or unforeseen circumstances; and

6.8.7E.b

it has not been reasonably practicable to meet by way of remote access for a
reason related to the satisfaction of the conditions in paragraph (3B)(a), (c)
and (d).

6.8.7F

Where this paragraph applies, the time limit referred to in paragraph (7)(a)
or (b) within which the governing body must take steps is extended by such
period as is reasonably necessary for a reason related to the extraordinary
events or unforeseen circumstances.

.

#### Amendments relating to cancelling exclusions

##### Insertion of regulation 8A into the 2012 Regulations

7

After regulation 8 insert—

######### Cancellation of exclusion of a pupil

7.8A

7.8A.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), if a head teacher decided to exclude a
pupil, the head teacher may cancel the exclusion—

7.8A.1.a

either before or after it has begun; and

7.8A.1.b

whether or not the pupil has been admitted to another school following their
exclusion.

7.8A.2

A head teacher may not cancel an exclusion under paragraph (1) if, by the time
the head teacher comes to make the decision to cancel an exclusion, the pupil—

7.8A.2.a

has already been excluded for more than 45 school days in any school year; or

7.8A.2.b

would have been excluded for more than 45 school days in any school year when
the cancellation took effect.

7.8A.3

In cases where regulation 5(3) applies by virtue of regulation 5(2), a head
teacher may not cancel an exclusion under paragraph (1) if, by the time the
head teacher comes to make the decision to cancel an exclusion, the governing
body has commenced a meeting for the purpose of making a decision under
regulation 6(2) regarding reinstatement of the pupil.

7.8A.4

Where an exclusion is cancelled in accordance with paragraph (1)—

7.8A.4.a

the head teacher must, without delay—

7.8A.4.a.i

inform the relevant person, the governing body, the local authority, the
social worker and the virtual school head of the cancellation and the reasons
for it in writing; and

7.8A.4.a.ii

reinstate the pupil;

7.8A.4.b

the governing body are not required to consider reinstatement of the pupil
under regulation 6.

.

### Pupil Referral Units

#### Amendments relating to remote access meetings

##### Amendment of regulation 14 of the 2012 Regulations

8

8.1

Regulation 14 (exclusion of pupils: teacher in charge’s duty to inform
relevant person, management committee, local authority, social worker and
virtual school head) is amended as follows.

8.2

After paragraph (3)(b)(ii) insert—

8.2.iia

where a meeting of the management committee is to consider the exclusion, that
a remote meeting request may be made, if the relevant person wishes to be able
to attend the meeting using remote access;

.

8.3

In paragraph (3)(b)(iii) and (iv), after “representations” insert  “or a
remote meeting request” .

##### Amendment of regulation 15 of the 2012 Regulations

9

9.1

Regulation 15 (functions of the management committee in relation to excluded
pupils) is amended as follows.

9.2

For paragraph (3A) substitute—

9.2.3A

Paragraph (3B) applies if a remote meeting request has been made.

.

9.3

In paragraph (3B)—

9.3.a

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “may” substitute  “must” ;

9.3.b

omit sub-paragraph (b).

9.4

After paragraph (3C) insert—

9.4.3D

Where—

9.4.3D.a

a social worker or virtual school head; or

9.4.3D.b

their nominated representative as referred to in paragraph (3C),

attends a meeting referred to in paragraph (3)(c) which is taking place in
person, they may do so using remote access provided the   management committee
is   satisfied that the conditions referred to in paragraph (3B)(a), (c) and
(d) are met.

9.4.3E

Paragraph (3F) applies if—

9.4.3E.a

for a reason related to extraordinary events or unforeseen circumstances, it
is not reasonably practicable for the meeting referred to in paragraph (3)(c)
to be held in person; and

9.4.3E.b

the meeting is not already required to take place using remote access pursuant
to paragraph (3B).

9.4.3F

Where this paragraph applies, the meeting referred to in paragraph (3)(c) may
be held using remote access provided that the   management committee is
satisfied that the conditions referred to in paragraph (3B)(a), (c) and (d)
are met.

9.4.3G

Subject to the exception made for persons referred to in paragraph (3D), a
meeting referred to in paragraph (3)(c) must be held in person unless—

9.4.3G.a

a remote meeting request is made; or

9.4.3G.b

for a reason related to extraordinary events or unforeseen circumstances, it
is not reasonably practicable for the meeting to be held in person,

and the   management committee is   satisfied that the conditions in paragraph
(3B)(a), (c) and (d) are met.

.

9.5

In paragraph (6)(b)—

9.5.a

after paragraph (iv) insert—

9.5.a.iva

where a meeting of the review panel is to review the management committee’s
decision, that a remote meeting request may be made, if the relevant person
wishes to be able to attend the meeting using remote access;

;

9.5.b

in paragraph (v)—

9.5.b.i

after “for a review” insert  “or a remote meeting request” ;

9.5.b.ii

for “and what the application” substitute  “, and what these” ;

9.5.c

in paragraph (vi)—

9.5.c.i

after “the application” insert  “or remote meeting request” ;

9.5.c.ii

for “and the date by which the application” substitute  “, and the date by
which these” .

9.6

In paragraph (7), for “paragraphs (7A), (7B), (7C), (7D) and” substitute
“paragraphs (7E), (7F) and” .

9.7

Omit paragraphs (7A) to (7D).

9.8

Before paragraph (8) insert—

9.8.7E

Paragraph (7F) applies where, immediately before the applicable time limit
referred to in paragraph (7)(a) or (b) expires, the meeting referred to in
paragraph (3)(c) has not been held because—

9.8.7E.a

it has not been reasonably practicable to meet in person for a reason related
to extraordinary events or unforeseen circumstances; and

9.8.7E.b

it has not been reasonably practicable to meet by way of remote access for a
reason related to the satisfaction of the conditions in paragraph (3B)(a), (c)
and (d).

9.8.7F

Where this paragraph applies, the time limit referred to in paragraph (7)(a)
or (b) within which the management committee must take steps is extended by
such period as is reasonably necessary for a reason related to the
extraordinary events or unforeseen circumstances.

.

#### Amendments relating to cancelling exclusions

##### Insertion of regulation 17A into the 2012 Regulations

10

After regulation 17 insert—

######### Cancellation of exclusion of a pupil

10.17A

10.17A.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), if a teacher in charge decided to exclude a
pupil, the teacher in charge may cancel the exclusion—

10.17A.1.a

either before or after it has begun; and

10.17A.1.b

whether or not the pupil has been admitted to another school following their
exclusion.

10.17A.2

A teacher in charge may not cancel an exclusion under paragraph (1) if, by the
time the teacher in charge comes to make the decision to cancel an exclusion,
the pupil—

10.17A.2.a

has already been excluded for more than 45 days in any school year; or

10.17A.2.b

would have been excluded for more than 45 days in any school year when the
cancellation took effect.

10.17A.3

In cases where regulation 14(3) applies by virtue of regulation 14(2), a
teacher in charge may not cancel an exclusion under paragraph (1) if, by the
time the teacher in charge comes to make the decision to cancel an exclusion,
the management committee has commenced a meeting for the purpose of making a
decision under regulation 15(2) regarding reinstatement of the pupil.

10.17A.4

Where an exclusion is cancelled in accordance with paragraph (1)—

10.17A.4.a

the teacher in charge must, without delay—

10.17A.4.a.i

inform the relevant person, the management committee, the local authority, the
social worker and the virtual school head of the cancellation and the reasons
for it in writing; and

10.17A.4.a.ii

reinstate the pupil;

10.17A.4.b

the management committee is not required to consider reinstatement of the
pupil under regulation 15.

.

### Academies

#### Amendments relating to remote access meetings

##### Amendment of regulation 23 of the 2012 Regulations

11

11.1

Regulation 23 (exclusion of pupils: principal’s duty to inform relevant
person, proprietor, local authority, social worker and virtual school head) is
amended as follows.

11.2

After paragraph (3)(b)(ii) insert—

11.2.iia

where a meeting of the proprietor is to consider the exclusion, that a remote
meeting request may be made, if the relevant person wishes to be able to
attend the meeting using remote access;

.

11.3

In paragraph (3)(b)(iii) and (iv), after “representations” insert  “or a
remote meeting request” .

##### Amendment of regulation 24 of the 2012 Regulations

12

12.1

Regulation 24 (functions of the proprietor in relation to excluded pupils) is
amended as follows.

12.2

For paragraph (3A) substitute—

12.2.3A

Paragraph (3B) applies if a remote meeting request has been made.

.

12.3

In paragraph (3B)—

12.3.a

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “may” substitute  “must” ;

12.3.b

omit sub-paragraph (b).

12.4

After paragraph (3C) insert—

12.4.3D

Where—

12.4.3D.a

a social worker or virtual school head; or

12.4.3D.b

their nominated representative as referred to in paragraph (3C),

attends a meeting referred to in paragraph (3)(c) which is taking place in
person, they may do so using remote access provided the   proprietor is
satisfied that the conditions referred to in paragraph (3B)(a), (c) and (d)
are met.

12.4.3E

Paragraph (3F) applies if—

12.4.3E.a

for a reason related to extraordinary events or unforeseen circumstances, it
is not reasonably practicable for the meeting referred to in paragraph (3)(c)
to be held in person; and

12.4.3E.b

the meeting is not already required to take place   using remote access
pursuant to paragraph (3B).

12.4.3F

Where this paragraph applies, the meeting referred to in paragraph (3)(c) may
be held using remote access, provided the proprietor is satisfied that the
conditions referred to in paragraph (3B)(a), (c) and (d) are met.

12.4.3G

Subject to the exception made for persons referred to in paragraph (3D), a
meeting referred to in paragraph (3)(c) must be held in person unless—

12.4.3G.a

a remote meeting request is made; or

12.4.3G.b

for a reason related to extraordinary events or unforeseen circumstances, it
is not reasonably practicable for the meeting to be held in person,

and the   proprietor is   satisfied that the conditions in paragraph (3B)(a),
(c) and (d) are met.

.

12.5

In paragraph (6)(b)—

12.5.a

after paragraph (iv) insert—

12.5.a.iva

where a review panel is to meet and review the proprietor’s decision, that a
remote meeting request may be made, if the relevant person wishes to be able
to attend the meeting using remote access;

;

12.5.b

in paragraph (v)—

12.5.b.i

after “for a review” insert  “or a remote meeting request” ;

12.5.b.ii

for “and what the application” substitute  “, and what these” ;

12.5.c

in paragraph (vi)—

12.5.c.i

after “the application” insert  “or remote meeting request” ;

12.5.c.ii

for “and the date by which the application” substitute  “, and the date by
which these” .

12.6

In paragraph (7), for “paragraphs (7A), (7B), (7C), (7D) and” substitute
“paragraphs (7E), (7F) and” .

12.7

Omit paragraphs (7A) to (7D).

12.8

Before paragraph (8) insert—

12.8.7E

Paragraph (7F) applies where, immediately before the applicable time limit
referred to in paragraph (7)(a) or (b) expires, the meeting referred to in
paragraph (3)(c) has not been held because—

12.8.7E.a

it has not been reasonably practicable to meet in person for a reason related
to extraordinary events or unforeseen circumstances; and

12.8.7E.b

it has not been reasonably practicable to meet by way of remote access for a
reason related to the satisfaction of the conditions in paragraph (3B)(a), (c)
and (d).

12.8.7F

Where this paragraph applies, the time limit referred to in paragraph (7)(a)
or (b) within which the proprietor must take steps is extended by such period
as is reasonably necessary for a reason related to the extraordinary events or
unforeseen circumstances.

.

#### Amendments relating to cancelling exclusions

##### Insertion of regulation 26A into the 2012 Regulations

13

After regulation 26 insert—

######### Cancellation of exclusion of a pupil

13.26A

13.26A.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), if a principal decided to exclude a pupil,
the principal may cancel the exclusion—

13.26A.1.a

either before or after it has begun; and

13.26A.1.b

whether or not the pupil has been admitted to another school following their
exclusion.

13.26A.2

A principal may not cancel an exclusion under paragraph (1) if, by the time
the principal comes to make the decision to cancel an exclusion, the pupil—

13.26A.2.a

has already been excluded for more than 45 days in any school year; or

13.26A.2.b

would have been excluded for more than 45 days in any school year when the
cancellation took effect.

13.26A.3

In cases where regulation 23(3) applies by virtue of regulation 23(2), a
principal may not cancel an exclusion under paragraph (1) if, by the time the
principal comes to make the decision to cancel an exclusion, the proprietor
has commenced a meeting for the purpose of making a decision under regulation
24(2).

13.26A.4

Where an exclusion is cancelled in accordance with paragraph (1)—

13.26A.4.a

the principal must, without delay—

13.26A.4.a.i

inform the relevant person, the proprietor, the local authority, the social
worker and the virtual school head of the cancellation and the reasons for it
in writing; and

13.26A.4.a.ii

reinstate the pupil;

13.26A.4.b

the proprietor is not required to consider reinstatement of the pupil under
regulation 24.

.

### Constitution and procedure of review panels

#### Amendment of Schedule 1 to the 2012 Regulations

14

14.1

Schedule 1 (constitution and procedure of review panels) is amended as
follows.

14.2

In paragraph 2, omit sub-paragraph (1A).

14.3

In paragraph 9—

14.3.a

after sub-paragraph (a), omit the “and”;

14.3.b

after sub-paragraph (b) insert—

; and

14.3.b.c

may include a remote meeting request.

.

14.4

In paragraph 10—

14.4.a

for sub-paragraph (3) substitute—

14.4.a.3

Sub-paragraph (4) applies if a remote meeting request has been made.

;

14.4.b

in sub-paragraph (4)—

14.4.b.i

after “in sub-paragraph (1)”, for “may” substitute  “must” ;

14.4.b.ii

omit paragraph (b);

14.4.c

after sub-paragraph (4) insert—

14.4.c.4A

Sub-paragraph (4B) applies if—

14.4.c.4A.a

for a reason related to extraordinary events or unforeseen circumstances, it
is not reasonably practicable for the meeting referred to in sub-paragraph (1)
to be held in person; and

14.4.c.4A.b

the meeting is not already required to take place using remote access pursuant
to sub-paragraph (4).

14.4.c.4B

Where this sub-paragraph applies, the meeting referred to in sub-paragraph (1)
may be held using remote access, provided the arranging authority is satisfied
that the conditions referred to in sub-paragraph (4)(a), (c) and (d) are met.

14.4.c.4C

Sub-paragraph (4D) applies where, immediately before the date determined by
the arranging authority as referred to in sub-paragraph (2), the meeting
referred to in sub-paragraph (1) has not been held because—

14.4.c.4C.a

it has not been reasonably practicable to meet in person for a reason related
to extraordinary events or unforeseen circumstances; and

14.4.c.4C.b

it has not been reasonably practicable to meet by way of remote access for a
reason related to the satisfaction of the conditions in sub-paragraph (4)(a),
(c) and (d).

14.4.c.4D

Where this sub-paragraph applies, the date determined by the arranging
authority as referred to in sub-paragraph (2) is extended by such period as is
reasonably necessary for a reason related to the extraordinary events or
unforeseen circumstances.

14.4.c.4E

Subject to the exception made for persons referred to in paragraph 12(4), a
meeting referred to in sub-paragraph (1) must be held in person unless—

14.4.c.4E.a

a remote meeting request is made; or

14.4.c.4E.b

for a reason related to extraordinary events or unforeseen circumstances, it
is not reasonably practicable for the meeting to be held in person,

and the   arranging authority is   satisfied that the conditions in sub-
paragraph (4)(a), (c) and (d) are met.

;

14.4.d

omit sub-paragraphs (5) to (8).

14.5

In paragraph 12, after sub-paragraph (3), insert—

14.5.4

Where a social worker, a virtual school head, a representative as referred to
in sub-paragraph (1), or a representative as referred to in sub-paragraph (3)
attends a meeting referred to in paragraph 10(1) which is taking place in
person, they may do so using remote access provided the arranging authority is
satisfied that the conditions referred to in paragraph 10(4)(a), (c) and (d)
are met.

### Transitional arrangements

#### Interpretation of regulation 16

15

In regulation 16—

      “ relevant person ” means—         in relation to a pupil under the age
of 18, a parent of the pupil, or           in relation to a pupil who has
attained that age, the pupil;                 “ remote access ” means access
to a meeting to enable those who are not all present together at the same
place to attend and participate simultaneously by electronic means, including
by live audio and video link;           “ review panel ” means a review panel
constituted in accordance with Schedule 1 to the 2012 Regulations;
“scrutiny” of an exclusion refers to any of the following—         a meeting
of—         the governing body under regulation 6(3)(c) of the 2012
Regulations;           the management committee under regulation 15(3)(c) of
the 2012 Regulations;           the proprietor under regulation 24(3)(c) of
the 2012 Regulations,         to consider whether the pupil should be
reinstated;           a meeting of the review panel under paragraph 10(1) of
Schedule 1 to the 2012 Regulations to review a decision (of a body referred to
in the previous sub-paragraph) not to reinstate the pupil.

#### Exclusion of pupils: remote meetings - transitional arrangements

16

16.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), this regulation applies to an exclusion of
a pupil under—

16.1.a

section 51A(1) of the Education Act 2002  (in the case of a maintained
school),

16.1.b

section 51A(2) of the Education Act 2002 (in the case of a pupil referral
unit), or

16.1.c

section 51A(1) of the Education Act 2002 as modified by regulation 21 of the
2012 Regulations (in the case of an Academy),

which occurs before 1st September 2023, if scrutiny of the exclusion is or may
be required and has not started before that date.

16.2

In a case involving scrutiny of an exclusion as referred to   in paragraph (a)
of the definition of “scrutiny” in regulation 15 , the head teacher (of a
maintained school), the teacher in charge (of a pupil referral unit) or the
principal (of an Academy) must, without delay on commencement of these
Regulations, give the relevant person notice in writing of the following—

16.2.a

that the relevant person may, within 3 school days of notification, request
that the meeting be held using remote access;

16.2.b

how and to whom the request should be made.

16.3

In a case involving scrutiny of an exclusion as referred   to in paragraph (b)
of the definition of “scrutiny” in regulation 15 , the governing body (of a
maintained school), the management committee (of a pupil referral unit), or
the proprietor (of an Academy) must, without delay on commencement of these
Regulations, give the relevant person notice in writing of the following—

16.3.a

that the relevant person may, within 3 school days after notification, request
that the meeting be held using remote access;

16.3.b

how and to whom the request should be made.

16.4

A notice in writing referred to in this regulation—

16.4.a

may be given by—

16.4.a.i

delivering it directly to the relevant person,

16.4.a.ii

delivering it to the relevant person’s last known address, or

16.4.a.iii

sending it by first class post to the relevant person’s last known address;

16.4.b

unless the contrary is shown, will be taken to have been given—

16.4.b.i

where first class post is used, on the second working day after the date of
posting, or

16.4.b.ii

where the notice is delivered, on the date of delivery.

      Nick Gibb   Minister of State   Department for Education     23rd May
2023

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations, while extending to the legal jurisdiction of England and
Wales, apply only in relation to England.

  The changes made by Parts 2 to 5 of these Regulations apply to exclusions
that take place on or after 1st September 2023. By virtue of Part 6 of these
Regulations (transitional arrangements), the changes regarding remote meetings
made by Parts 2 to 5 also apply to meetings that may be or are required to
take place on or after 1st September 2023 in respect of certain exclusions
that took place before that date.

  These Regulations amend the School Discipline (Pupil Exclusions and Reviews)
(England) Regulations 2012 ( S.I. 2012/1033 ) (“ the 2012 Regulations ”). The
2012 Regulations set out procedures in relation to exclusions under section
51A of the Education Act 2002, from maintained schools, pupil referral units
and Academies (meaning Academy schools or alternative provision Academies) in
England. Parts 2, 3 and 4 of these Regulations make the same types of changes
in respect of maintained schools, pupil referral units and Academies
respectively.

  Part 1 of these Regulations (general) contains introductory provisions.
Regulation 4 amends regulation 2 of the 2012 Regulations, which contains
definitions of general relevance to the 2012 Regulations.

  Part 2 of these Regulations (maintained schools) amends Part 2 of the 2012
Regulations, which contains provisions regarding maintained schools. Within
Part 2 of these Regulations, Chapter 1 makes amendments which provide for
remote access meetings to take place in certain circumstances and when certain
conditions are met; and Chapter 2 inserts a new regulation 8A into the 2012
Regulations regarding the cancellation of exclusion decisions. New regulation
8A enables a head teacher to cancel a school exclusion decision in certain
circumstances and where specified requirements are met; it also requires the
head teacher to inform certain persons of the cancellation of the exclusion
and to reinstate the pupil without delay.

  Parts 3 and 4 of these Regulations make similar changes in relation to pupil
referral units and Academies respectively.

  Part 5 of these Regulations (constitution and procedure of review panels)
amends Schedule 1 to the 2012 Regulations, which contains provisions regarding
the constitution and procedure of review panels.

  Part 6 of these Regulations (transitional arrangements) provides for
transitional arrangements regarding the rules on meetings that take place
using remote access, for exclusions that occur before 1st September 2023 where
the consideration or review of the exclusion has not yet been completed.
Regulation 15 covers the interpretation of terms used in regulation 16.
Regulation 16 sets out what the transitional arrangements are and makes
provision for how notices may be given in this context.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sectors is
foreseen. An explanatory memorandum is published alongside these Regulations
on  www.legislation.gov.uk . Hard copies are available from the Department for
Education, Sanctuary Buildings, Great Smith Street, London SW1P 33BT.

