Title: The Rehabilitation of Offenders (Exceptions) (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023
Date: 2023-04-17
Description: This Order amends the Rehabilitation of Offenders (Exceptions) Order (Northern Ireland) 1979 (“the 1979 Order”) to bring individuals who are seeking to act as an adult placement carer in accordance with the Adult Placement Agencies Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2007, within the excluded circumstances set out in Article 2 of the 1979 Order.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2023/17

## The Rehabilitation of Offenders (Exceptions) (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023

    Rehabilitation Of Offenders

  Made   20th February 2023

  Coming into operation-   20th March 2023

      The Department of Justice makes the following Order in exercise of the
powers conferred by Article 5(4) of the Rehabilitation of Offenders (Northern
Ireland) Order 1978 .

### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the Rehabilitation of Offenders (Exceptions)
(Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2023 and shall come into operation on
20th March 2023.

### Interpretation

2

In this Order “ the 1979 Order ” means the Rehabilitation of Offenders
(Exceptions) Order (Northern Ireland) 1979 .

### Amendment of the 1979 Order

3

3.1

The 1979 Order is amended as follows.

3.2

After Article 2(1)(n) insert—

3.2.o

any question asked by or on behalf of any person, in the course of his work,
in order to assess the suitability of an individual to act as an adult
placement carer (within the meaning of Regulation 2 of the Adult Placement
Agencies Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2007) , where —

3.2.o.i

the question relates to the individual whose suitability is being assessed, or

3.2.o.ii

the question relates to a person living in the same household as the person
whose suitability is being assessed.

.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Justice on 20th
February 2023.         Richard Pengelly   A senior officer of the Department
of Justice

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  This Order amends the Rehabilitation of Offenders (Exceptions) Order
(Northern Ireland) 1979 (“ the 1979 Order ”) to bring individuals who are
seeking to act as an adult placement carer in accordance with the Adult
Placement Agencies Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2007, within the excluded
circumstances set out in Article 2 of the 1979 Order.

  The 1979 Order disapplies specific provisions of the Rehabilitation of
Offenders (Northern Ireland) Order 1978 (“ the 1978 Order ”) which would
otherwise prevent a person from having to disclose a spent conviction and
protect that person from being prejudiced by that conviction or any failure to
disclose it. The general effect of the disapplication is to allow, in specific
circumstances, questions to be asked about spent convictions (except where
they are protected convictions as described in Article 1A of the 1979 Order)
in order to assess a person’s suitability for admission to certain
occupations, or to hold certain types of employment, licences or permits. It
also allows spent convictions, or failure to disclose them, to be grounds for
excluding a person from these occupations, or making decisions in relation to
those types of employments, licenses and permits.

  Article 5(2) of the 1978 Order (which relates to questions asked about
criminal convictions otherwise than in the course of judicial proceedings) is
excluded in relation to questions put in the various circumstances specified
in Article 2 of the 1979 Order. The questions to which Article 2 applies
include questions on the assessment of a person’s suitability for various
professions, offices, employments, occupations or to hold certain licences,
certificates or permits.

  Article 3 of this Order inserts a new paragraph (o) into Article 2(1) of the
1979 Order so that any question asked to assess the suitability of an
individual seeking to act as an adult placement carer within the meaning of
the Adult Placement Agencies Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2007 and any
individual residing in the same household, is included within the scope of the
exceptions set out in the 1979 Order, requiring them to self-disclose spent
convictions.

