Title: The Road Works (Reinstatement Quality Plans, Qualifications of Supervisors and Operatives and Miscellaneous Amendments) (Scotland) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-08-01
Description: These Regulations make provision about the reinstatement quality plans (“the plans”) to be entered into the Scottish Road Works Register (“the SRWR”) under section 130A or 130B of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 (“the 1991 Act”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2023/33

## The Road Works (Reinstatement Quality Plans, Qualifications of Supervisors and Operatives and Miscellaneous Amendments) (Scotland) Regulations 2023

    Roads And Bridges

  Made   7th February 2023

  Laid before the Scottish Parliament   9th February 2023

  Coming into force   1st April 2023

      The Scottish Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred by section 61B(9) of the Roads (Scotland) Act 1984  and
sections 112B(1), (2A), (5A) and (6), 114A(2), 117(1), 126, 129(3), (4) and
(5A), 130, 130C(2) and (3), 134 and 163(1) and (3) of the New Roads and Street
Works Act 1991  and all other powers enabling them to do so.           In
accordance with section 163A of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991  they
have consulted with such—         persons considered by them to be
representative of the interests of undertakers,           road works
authorities, and           other persons,             as they think
appropriate.

### General

#### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Road Works (Reinstatement Quality Plans,
Qualifications of Supervisors and Operatives and Miscellaneous Amendments)
(Scotland) Regulations 2023 and come into force on 1 April 2023.

### Reinstatement Quality Plans

#### Interpretation of Part 2

2

In this Part—

      “ the Act ” means the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991,           “
Commissioner ” means the Scottish Road Works Commissioner,           “ general
reinstatement quality plan ” has the same meaning as it has in section 130A of
the Act,           “ specific reinstatement quality plan ” has the same
meaning as it has in section 130A of the Act,           “ plan ” means a
general reinstatement quality plan or a specific reinstatement quality plan,
“ SRWR ” means the Scottish Road Works Register.

#### Process to be followed to require a plan to be entered in the SRWR

3

3.1

The Commissioner may require a person or a roads authority to enter a plan
under section 130A(3) or 130B(2) of the Act in the SRWR by way of a notice
entered in the SRWR.

3.2

A notice under paragraph (1) must specify the date by which the recipient of
the notice must enter a plan in the SRWR, being a date not less than 30 days
and not more than 90 days from the date the notice was entered in the SRWR.

#### Requirement for a plan to be reviewed

4

4.1

A person who enters a plan in the SRWR under section 130A(2) of the Act must
keep it under review for a period of 6 years from the date of its approval by
the Commissioner.

4.2

Where the Commissioner requires a roads authority to enter a plan in the SRWR
under section 130B(2) of the Act, the roads authority must keep it under
review for a period of 6 years from the date of its approval by the
Commissioner.

### Qualifications of Supervisors and Operatives

#### Interpretation of Part 3

5

5.1

In this Part—

      “ the 2015 Regulations ” means the European Union (Recognition of
Professional Qualifications Regulations 2015 ”,           “ the Act ” means
the Roads (Scotland) Act 1984,           “ approved assessment centre ” means
an establishment which carries out the assessment of competence in the types
of work which should be done by a trained supervisor or operative,           “
approved body ” means a body listed in regulation 10(1),           “ approved
register ” means the register mentioned in regulation 10(2),           “
certificate ” means a certificate of competence or certificate of recognition
but does not include a renewal certificate,           “ certificate of
competence ” means a qualification, an award or an equivalent certification in
a type of work issued by an approved body,           “ certificate of
recognition ” means a certificate of a type described in regulation 6(3)(b),
“ competent authority ” means a competent authority for the United Kingdom for
regulating Road/Street Works Operatives and Road/Street Works supervisors
specified in Part 1 of schedule 1 of the 2015 Regulations,           “
registration body ” means the Scottish Qualifications Authority established
under the Scottish Qualifications Authority (Establishment) (Scotland) Order
1996 ,           “ renewal certificate ” means a certificate issued in
pursuance of regulation 15,           “ supervisor ” means a person by whom
works in or on a road are required to be supervised under section 61B(2)(a) of
the Act,           “ trained operative ” means a person whose presence at the
site of works in or on a road is required under section 61B(2)(b) of the Act,
“ type of work ” means any of the types of work listed in schedules 1 and 2,
and regulation 6(1)(b) and (2)(b).

5.2

For the purposes of these Regulations, a person has been—

5.2.a

assessed as having the required level of competence in a type of work if that
person has passed a practical and theoretical assessment designed to
demonstrate attainment of the required level of knowledge and understanding
of, and skill in, that type of work, and

5.2.b

reassessed as having the required level of competence in a type of work if
that person has passed a theoretical assessment designed to demonstrate that
the required level of knowledge and understanding of that type of work has
been retained and kept up to date since the previous assessment or
reassessment.

#### Prescribed qualifications

6

6.1

For the purposes of section 61B(2)(a) of the Act, a person has a prescribed
qualification as a supervisor for a type of work (S) listed in schedule 1 if
that person is qualified in—

6.1.a

S, and

6.1.b

the following additional types of work—

6.1.b.i

S1 – monitoring of signing, lighting and guarding, and

6.1.b.ii

LA – location and avoidance of underground apparatus.

6.2

For the purposes of section 61B(2)(b) of the Act, a person has a prescribed
qualification as a trained operative for a type of work (T) listed in schedule
2 if that person is qualified in—

6.2.a

T, and

6.2.b

the following additional types of work—

6.2.b.i

O1 – signing, lighting and guarding, and

6.2.b.ii

LA – location and avoidance of underground apparatus.

6.3

For the purposes of paragraphs (1) and (2), a person is qualified in a type of
work if, in respect of that work—

6.3.a

an approved body has issued a certificate of competence showing that the
person has been assessed by an approved assessment centre as having the
required level of competence, or

6.3.b

a competent authority has issued a certificate of recognition stating that the
person meets the requirements of regulation 29(1) (conditions for recognition)
of the 2015 Regulations,

and the certificate is registered in the approved register.

#### Grace period before registration

7

For a period of two months beginning with the date on which a person is issued
with a certificate or a renewal certificate for a type of work, the person is
deemed to be qualified in that type of work notwithstanding that the relevant
certificate has not been registered or re-registered (as the case may be) in
the approved register.

#### Prescribed qualifications: UK equivalents

8

8.1

A person has a prescribed qualification for a type of work listed in schedule
1 or schedule 2 if the person has an equivalent qualification in respect of
that type of work which is recognised in another part of the United Kingdom.

8.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1)—

8.2.a

a person has an equivalent qualification if it has been approved as such by a
competent authority, and

8.2.b

the qualification is recognised in another part of the United Kingdom if—

8.2.b.i

in relation to England or Wales, it is prescribed by regulations made under
section 67 and 104(1) of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991,

8.2.b.ii

in relation to Northern Ireland, it is prescribed by regulations made under
article 27 of the Street Works (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 .

#### Restrictions on qualification

9

Where a person has a prescribed qualification for a type of work specified in
schedule 1 or 2 the requirements of section 61B(2) of the Act are met in
respect of that person in relation to that type of work only.

#### Qualification registration

10

10.1

The bodies approved for the purpose of issuing certificates of competence are—

10.1.a

The Scottish Qualifications Authority,

10.1.b

The City and Guilds of London Institute ,

10.1.c

The CABWI Awarding Body ,  ...

10.1.d

Lantra   ,

10.1.e

Highfield Qualifications, and

10.1.f

EUIAS.

10.2

The register approved for the purpose of registering certificates is the
register kept by the registration body.

10.3

Where an approved body has issued a certificate of competence, the approved
assessment centre which carried out the assessment referred to in regulation
5(2)(a) must, within one month beginning with the date of issue, request the
registration body to register that certificate in the approved register.

10.4

Where an approved body has issued a renewal certificate, the approved
assessment centre which carried out the reassessment referred to in regulation
5(2)(b) must, within one month beginning with the date of issue, request the
registration body to re-register the certificate to which the renewal
certificate relates in the approved register.

10.5

The registration body must register or re-register (as the case may be) a
certificate within one month beginning with the date of—

10.5.a

receipt of a request for registration made under paragraph (3);

10.5.b

the issue by a competent authority of a certificate of recognition, or

10.5.c

receipt of a request for re-registration made under paragraph (4).

#### Expiry of registration

11

A certificate ceases to be registered at the end of the period of five years
beginning with the date on which it was issued, but may be re-registered for
any number of further periods in accordance with regulations 12 to 14.

#### Re-registration more than 12 months before expiry

12

12.1

A certificate issued in respect of a type of work may be re-registered for a
further period of five years where—

12.1.a

an approved body has issued to the holder of the certificate a renewal
certificate for that type of work, and

12.1.b

the renewal certificate was issued earlier than 48 months before the date of
the expiry of the previous registration.

12.2

A certificate issued in respect of a type of work may be re-registered for a
further period of six years if—

12.2.a

an approved body has issued to the holder of a certificate a renewal
certificate for that type of work, and

12.2.b

the renewal certificate is issued earlier than 12 months (but no earlier than
48 months) before the date of the expiry of the previous registration.

12.3

The further period for which a certificate is registered under this regulation
begins on the day on which the renewal certificate is issued.

#### Re-registration within 12 months of expiry

13

13.1

A certificate issued in respect of a type of work may be re-registered for a
further period of five years if—

13.1.a

an approved body has issued to the holder of the certificate a renewal
certificate for that type of work, and

13.1.b

the renewal certificate was issued within the period of 12 months ending on
the date of expiry of the previous registration.

13.2

The further period for which a certificate is registered under this regulation
begins on the day immediately after the expiry of the previous registration.

#### Re-registration after expiry

14

14.1

A certificate issued in respect of a type of work may be re-registered for a
further period of five years if—

14.1.a

an approved body has issued to the holder of the certificate a renewal
certificate for that type of work, and

14.1.b

the renewal certificate is issued within the period of five years beginning
with the day after the expiry of the previous registration.

14.2

The further period for which a certificate is registered under this regulation
begins on the day on which the renewal certificate is issued.

#### Renewal certificates

15

An approved body may issue a person with a renewal certificate for a type of
work if that person has been assessed or reassessed by an approved assessment
centre as having the required level of competence in that type of work.

#### Exemption for the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service

16

16.1

This regulation applies where the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service is
executing works in a road which involve breaking up the road.

16.2

The duty under section 61B(2)(b) of the Act does not apply in relation to
those works.

### Miscellaneous Road Works Amendments

#### Amendment of the Road Works (Reinstatement) (Scotland) Regulations 1992

17

17.1

The Road Works (Reinstatement) (Scotland) Regulations 1992  are amended in
accordance with this regulation.

17.2

In regulation 2(1)—

17.2.a

for the definition of “the Code” substitute—

      “ the Code ” means the code of practice entitled “Specification for the
Reinstatement of Openings in Roads”  approved by the Scottish Ministers in
February 2019 as revised and reissued from time to time,

,

17.2.b

in the definition of “immediate works” for “a deferred set macadam” substitute
“deferred set mixtures” .

17.3

In regulation 3, for paragraph (1) substitute—

17.3.1

For the purposes of applying the requirements specified in regulation 4, the
Code specifies—

17.3.1.a

the categories of roads based on loads arising due to traffic capacity,

17.3.1.b

the reinstatement categories for footpaths and footways, and

17.3.1.c

the method of determining traffic flow to facilitate the categorisation of
roads.

.

17.4

In regulation 3(2)—

17.4.a

for “types” substitute  “categories” ,

17.4.b

for “workmanship” substitute  “work” , and

17.4.c

for “type” substitute  “category” .

17.5

In regulation 3(3) for “workmanship” substitute  “work” .

17.6

In regulation 3(4)—

17.6.a

for “workmanship” substitute  “work” , and

17.6.b

for “type” in both places where it occurs substitute  “category” .

17.7

For regulation 4 substitute—

########## Requirements as to materials to be used and standards of work to be observed

17.7.4

17.7.4.1

Except as provided in regulation 3(3), an undertaker executing road works must
in reinstating the road comply with the requirements specified in paragraph
(2) as to the specification of materials to be used and as to the standards of
work to be observed.

17.7.4.2

The materials to be used and standards of work to be observed must satisfy the
performance standards specified in regulation 5.

.

17.8

In regulation 5 omit “Chapter S2 of”.

17.9

Omit regulation 7.

17.10

Omit regulation 8.

17.11

Before regulation 9 insert—

########## Guarantee period for permanent reinstatements

17.11.8A

17.11.8A.1

The period prescribed for the purposes of section 130(2)(b) of the Act in
relation to permanent reinstatement completed before 1 October 2023 is—

17.11.8A.1.a

three years from the date of completion, in the case of excavation to a depth
exceeding 1.5 metres to the top of the apparatus over a length of 5 metres or
more, or

17.11.8A.1.b

two years from the date of completion in any other case.

17.11.8A.2

The period prescribed under section 130(2)(b) of the Act in relation to
permanent reinstatement completed on or after 1 October 2023 is 6 years from
the date of completion, regardless of the depth of reinstatement.

.

#### Amendment of the Road Works (Inspection Fees) (Scotland) Regulations 2003

18

18.1

The Road Works (Inspection Fees) (Scotland) Regulations 2003  are amended in
accordance with this regulation.

18.2

In regulation 3(4)(c)—

18.2.a

after “preceding the end of” insert  “the period prescribed in relation to
permanent reinstatement by regulation 8A of the Road Works (Reinstatement)
(Scotland) Regulations 1992 .” , and

18.2.b

omit heads (i) and (ii).

18.3

For the purposes of any permanent reinstatement completed on or after 1
October 2023 but before 1 April 2028 regulation 3(4) is to be read as if, for
sub-paragraph (c), there were substituted—

18.3.c

the period of 4 years immediately preceding the end of the period prescribed
in relation to permanent reinstatement by regulation 8A of the Road Works
(Reinstatement) (Scotland) Regulations 1992.

.

#### Amendment of the Road Works (Scottish Road Works Register, Notices, Directions and Designations) (Scotland) Regulations 2008

19

19.1

The Road Works (Scottish Road Works Register, Notices, Directions and
Designations) (Scotland) Regulations 2008  are amended in accordance with this
regulation.

19.2

In regulation 2(1), after the definition of “urgent works”, insert—

      “ working hours ” means the period between 8 a.m. and 4.30 p.m. on a
working day.

.

19.3

In regulation 3(2)(f) omit “S1.3 and S1.4 of”.

19.4

After regulation 3(4) insert—

19.4.4A

For the purposes of section 112B(2A)  the date on which the works were
completed must be entered in the SRWR within two working hours of such works
being completed.

.

19.5

After regulation 3(5) insert—

19.5.5A

For the purposes of section 112B(5A), the date on and time at which the works
began must be entered in the SRWR within two working hours of such works
beginning.

.

19.6

After regulation 3(6) insert—

19.6.6A

For the purposes of section 112B(6) the date of the completion of the works
must be entered in the SRWR within two working hours of such works being
completed.

.

19.7

After regulation 7 insert—

########## Notice confirming start of works

19.7.7A

For the purposes of section 114A(2) an undertaker must give notice of the date
and time at which works began within 2 working hours of beginning to execute
those works.

.

19.8

After regulation 9(1) insert—

19.8.1A

For the purposes of section 117(1) , the period prescribed is—

19.8.1A.a

three years following reconstruction or resurfacing of a carriageway,

19.8.1A.b

one year following other substantial works for roads purposes in a
carriageway, and

19.8.1A.c

one year following reconstruction or resurfacing of a footway or footpath, or
other substantial works for roads purposes in a footway or footpath.

.

19.9

In regulation 9(2), for “paragraph (1)” substitute  “paragraphs (1) and (1A)”
.

19.10

In regulation 13, after “(duty of undertaker to reinstate)” insert  “must be
given within two working hours of the reinstatement being completed and” .

#### Amendment of the Road Works (Qualifications of Supervisors and Operatives) (Scotland) Regulations 2017

20

20.1

The Road Works (Qualifications of Supervisors and Operatives) (Scotland)
Regulations 2017  are amended in accordance with this regulation.

20.2

In regulation 2—

20.2.a

omit the definition of “adaptation period”,

20.2.b

omit the definition of “aptitude test”, and

20.2.c

in the definition of “certificate of recognition”, omit “or (c)”.

20.3

In regulation 3(3)(b)—

20.3.a

omit “(a) or (b)”,

20.3.b

after “relevant” insert  “European” .

20.4

Omit regulation 3(3)(c).

20.5

Omit regulation 7.

20.6

In regulation 8(5)(b), omit “or (c)”.

      JENNY GILRUTH   Authorised to sign by the Scottish Ministers     St
Andrew’s House,   Edinburgh       7th February 2023

  Certificates of Competence for Supervisors – Types of Work

Regulations 6(1), 8 and 9

    S2 – Monitoring excavation in the road   S3 – Monitoring reinstatement and
compaction of backfill materials   S4 – Monitoring reinstatement of sub-base
and base in non-bituminous materials   S5 – Monitoring reinstatement in
bituminous materials   S6 – Monitoring reinstatement of concrete slabs   S7 –
Monitoring reinstatement of modular surfaces and concrete footways

  Certificates of Competence for Trained Operatives – Types of Work

Regulations 6(2), 8 and 9

    O2 – Excavation in the road   O3 – Reinstatement and compaction of
backfill materials   O4 – Reinstatement of sub-base and base in non-bituminous
materials   O5 – Reinstatement in cold-lay bituminous materials   O6 –
Reinstatement in hot-lay bituminous materials   O7 – Reinstatement of concrete
slabs   O8 – Reinstatement of modular surfaces and concrete footways

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision about the reinstatement quality plans (“the
plans”) to be entered into the Scottish Road Works Register (“the SRWR”) under
section 130A or 130B of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 (“ the 1991
Act ”).

  These Regulations also prescribe the qualifications required for the types
of work executed by supervisors and trained operatives under section 61B of
the Roads (Scotland) Act 1984 (“ the 1984 Act ”).

  These Regulations also make miscellaneous amendments to the Road Works
(Reinstatement) (Scotland) Regulations 1992, the Road Works (Inspection Fees)
(Scotland) Regulations 2003, the Road Works (Scottish Road Works Register,
Notices, Directions and Designations) (Scotland) Regulations 2008 and the Road
Works Qualifications of Supervisors and Operatives) (Scotland) Regulations
2017.

  Part 2 of these Regulations prescribes processes relating to the plans to be
entered into the SRWR under section 130A or 130B of the 1991 Act. Regulation 3
prescribes that when a plan is requested by the Scottish Road Works
Commissioner (“ the Commissioner ”) under section 130A(3) or 130B(2), a person
or a roads authority must submit a plan for the Commissioner’s approval within
90 days of the date of the Commissioner’s notice or such other period as the
Commissioner may specify (being not less than 30 days from the date of the
notice). Regulation 4 provides that the plans approved by the Commissioner
must be kept under review for a period of 6 years from the date of the
Commissioner’s approval.

  Part 3 of these Regulations makes provision in relation to the
qualifications needed for the types of work which requires to be executed by
supervisors and trained operatives under section 61B of the 1984 Act. It also
allows for the operation of rules for the recognition of equivalent
qualifications in relation to supervisors and trained operatives found in the
European Union (Recognition of Professional Qualifications) Regulations 2015
(“ the 2015 Regulations ”), which implement in part  Directive 2005/36/EC  of
the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 255, 30.9.2005, p. 22) on the
recognition of professional qualifications, as amended by  Directive
2013/55/EU  (OJ L 254, 28.12.2013. p. 132). Regulation 6 provides that a
person has a prescribed qualification for a type of work listed in schedule 1
or 2 of these Regulations if the person is qualified in that type of work and
the additional types of work specified in regulation 6(1)(b) (for supervisors)
or regulation 6(2)(b) (for trained operatives). A person is qualified in a
type of work if an approved body has issued a certificate of competence
showing that the person has been assessed as having the required level of
competence in that type of work (regulation 6(3)(a)) or if a competent
authority has issued a certificate of recognition of equivalent qualifications
obtained in a relevant European State (regulation 6(3)(b)). Certificates must
be registered in the approved register. Regulation 7 provides for a grace
period of two months following the issuing of a certificate or a renewal
certificate before registration, during which the person issued with the
relevant certificate is deemed to be qualified in the relevant type of work,
notwithstanding that the certificate has not been registered or re-registered.
Regulation 8 provides for the recognition of equivalent qualifications from
other parts of the United Kingdom. Regulation 9 provides for recognition of
restricted forms of qualification. Regulation 10 sets out the approved bodies
for the purposes of issuing certificates of competence. The register of
certificates is kept by the Scottish Qualifications Authority. Registration of
a certificate expires after 5 years beginning with the date on which it was
issued (regulation 11) but a certificate may be re-registered for any number
of further periods in accordance with regulations 12 to 14. A person wishing
to re-register a certificate for a type of work must obtain a renewal
certificate for that type of work. An approved body may award a person a
renewal certificate for a type of work if that person has been assessed or
reassessed as having the required level of competence in that type of work
(regulation 15). Regulation 16 exempts the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service
from the requirement to have one trained operative on site where works it is
undertaking involve breaking up the road.

  Regulation 17 amends the Road Works (Reinstatement) (Scotland) Regulations
1992 (“ the 1992 Regulations ”). Regulation 17(2) updates definitions of
“Code” and “immediate works”. Regulation 17(3) to (10) makes amendments to
regulations 3 to 5 and 7 to 8 to reflect changes made to the updated Code of
Practice in relation to categories of roads, the requirements of materials to
be used and standards of work to be observed by undertakers executing road
works. Regulation 17(11) inserts regulation 8A into the 1992 Regulations which
sets out a guarantee period for permanent reinstatement of a road following
road works of 2 years from the date of completion, or 3 years in case of deep
excavations, if completed before 1 October 2023, or 6 years from the date of
completion (regardless of the depth of reinstatement) if completed on or after
1 October 2023.

  Regulation 18(2) amends regulation 3(4)(c) of the Road Works (Inspection
Fees) (Scotland) Regulations 2003 by replacing the description of periods
after the completion of permanent reinstatement with a reference to the period
set out in regulation 8A of the 1992 Regulations. Regulation 18(3) provides
for a temporary arrangements for the inspections carried out during the phase
of works under regulation 3(4)(c) so that for any permanent reinstatement
completed on or after 1 October 2023 but before 1 April 2028 the inspection
period under that phase of works is to be 4 years preceding the end of the
period specified for those permanent reinstatement works by regulation 8A of
the 1992 Regulations.

  Regulation 19 amends the Road Works (Scottish Road Works Register, Notices,
Directions and Designations) (Scotland) Regulations 2008 (“ the 2008
Regulations ”) by inserting a definition of “working hours” and providing the
requirement for the road works authority under section 112B(2A) of the 1991
Act and for the roads authority under section 112B(6) of the 1991 Act to enter
in the SRWR the date on which the works were completed within two working
hours of that completion (regulation 19(4) and (6)). Regulation 19(5) provides
that under section 112B(5A) of the 1991 Act the date on and time at which the
works began must be entered in the SRWR within two working hours of the works
beginning. Regulation 19(7) inserts a new regulation 7A into the 2008
Regulations setting out a requirement for an undertaker under section 114A(2)
of the 1991 Act to give notice of the date on and time at which the works
began within two working hours of the works beginning. Regulation 19(8)
inserts a new regulation 9(1A) into the 2008 Regulations providing new
restriction periods for the execution of road works following substantial
works carried out in a road. Regulation 19(10) amends regulation 13 of the
2008 Regulations to require an undertaker to give a notice for the purposes of
section 129(3) or (4) of the 1991 Act within two working hours of a
reinstatement of a road being completed.

  Regulation 20 makes miscellaneous amendments to the Road Works
(Qualifications of Supervisors and Operatives) (Scotland) Regulations 2017
following the amendments made by the Recognition of Professional
Qualifications (Amendment etc.) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 to the operation of
rules for the recognition of equivalent qualifications in relation to trained
operatives and supervisors under the 2015 Regulations.

  A Business and Regulatory Impact Assessment has been prepared and placed in
the Scottish Parliament Information Centre. Copies can be obtained from
Transport Scotland, 5 Atlantic Quay, 150 Broomielaw, Glasgow G2 8LU and online
at   www.legislation.gov.uk .

