Title: The Carer’s Assistance (Carer Support Payment) (Scotland) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-11-09
Description: These Regulations make provision for Carer Support Payment which is a type of carer’s assistance given by the Scottish Ministers under section 28 of the Social Security (Scotland) Act 2018.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2023/302

## The Carer’s Assistance (Carer Support Payment) (Scotland) Regulations 2023

    Social Security

  Made   25th October 2023

  Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1

      The Scottish Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred by sections 28(2), 41(4)(a), 43(5), 51(1), 52, 81(8) and 95
of the Social Security (Scotland) Act 2018  and all other powers enabling them
to do so.       In accordance with section 96(2) of that Act, a draft of these
Regulations has been laid before and approved by resolution of the Scottish
Parliament.           In accordance with section 97(2) of that Act, the
Scottish Ministers have informed the Scottish Commission on Social Security of
their proposals, notified the Scottish Parliament that they have done so and
made their proposals publicly available by such means as they consider
appropriate.

### Introductory and interpretation


#### Citation and commencement


1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Carer’s Assistance (Carer Support
Payment) (Scotland) Regulations 2023.

1.2

Subject to paragraph (3), these Regulations come into force on 19 November
2023.

1.3

Regulation 13(2) and (3) come into force on   23 June 2024 .

#### Interpretation


2

In these Regulations—

“ the 2018 Act ” means the Social Security (Scotland) Act 2018, “ the 1992 Act
” means the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , “ Adult
Disability Payment ” means disability assistance for adults given in
accordance with the Disability Assistance for Working Age People (Scotland)
Regulations 2022 , “ Armed Forces Independence Payment ” means a payment under
the Armed Forces and Reserve Forces (Compensation Scheme) Order 2011 , “
Attendance Allowance ” means an attendance allowance under— section 64 of the
1992 Act, or the Social Security (Attendance Allowance) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1992 , “ award week ” means a period of 7 days beginning on a Sunday
and ending on a Saturday, “cared for person” is a person described in
regulation 5(1), “ carer element of Universal Credit ” means the amount
awarded by virtue of— section 12(2)(c) of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 , or
article 17(2)(c) of the Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015 , “
Carer’s Allowance ” means a benefit for carers given under— section 70
(carer’s allowance) of the 1992 Act , or section 70 (carer’s allowance) of the
Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 , “
Carer Support Payment ” means carer’s assistance given in accordance with
these Regulations, “ Child Disability Payment ” means disability assistance
for children and young people given in accordance with the Disability
Assistance for Children and Young People (Scotland) Regulations 2021 , “
Constant Attendance Allowance ” means an allowance under— section 104 of the
1992 Act, or article 8 of the Naval, Military and Air Forces Etc. (Disablement
and Death) Service Pensions Order 2006 , “ couple ” has the meaning given by
section 39 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 , “determination” or “ determination
of entitlement ” has the meaning in section 25 of the 2018 Act, “ Disability
Living Allowance ” means a disability living allowance under— section 71 of
the 1992 Act, or section 71 of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits
(Northern Ireland) Act 1992 , “ EEA state ” means— any member state of the
European Union, or any other state that is party to the Agreement on the
European Economic Area signed at Oporto on 2 May 1992 , together with the
Protocol adjusting that Agreement signed at Brussels on 17 March 1993 , as
modified or supplemented from time to time, “ Industrial Injuries Disablement
Benefit ” means a benefit payable under Part V and section 103 of the 1992
Act, “ legal detention ” means detention in legal custody within the meaning
of section 295 of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 ,   “ Pension Age
Disability Payment ” means disability assistance for older people given in
accordance with the Disability Assistance for Older People (Scotland)
Regulations 2024,   “ Personal Independence Payment ” means personal
independence payment under— Part 4 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012, or Article
82 of the Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015 , “ qualifying
disability benefit ” means— the daily living component of Adult Disability
Payment at the standard or enhanced rate, the daily living component of
Personal Independence Payment, the care component of Child Disability Payment
at the middle or highest rate, the care component of Disability Living
Allowance at the middle or highest rate,   Pension Age Disability Payment,
Attendance Allowance, Armed Forces Independence Payment, or Constant
Attendance Allowance— at or above the normal maximum rate with Industrial
Injuries Disablement Benefit, or at the basic (full day) rate with a War
Disablement Pension, “ relevant EU Regulation ” means— one of the following
Regulations— Council Regulation  (EC) No 1408/71  of 14 June 1971  on the
application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed
persons and to members of their families moving within the Community,
Regulation  (EC) No 883/2004  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
29 April 2004  on the coordination of social security systems, or in relation
to an individual to whom the agreement constituted by the exchange of letters
set out in the schedule of the Family Allowances, National Insurance and
Industrial Injuries (Gibraltar) Order 1974  applies, a Regulation mentioned in
paragraph (a) of this definition as it forms part of domestic law by virtue of
section 3 of the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018 , “ War Disablement
Pension ” means— any retired pay, pension or allowance granted in respect of
disablement under powers conferred by or under the Air Force (Constitution)
Act 1917 , the Personal Injuries (Emergency Provisions) Act 1939 , the
Pensions (Navy, Army, Air Force and Mercantile Marine) Act 1939 , the Polish
Resettlement Act 1947 , or Part VII or section 151 of the Reserve Forces Act
1980 , without prejudice to paragraph (a) of this definition, any retired pay
or pension to which any of paragraphs (a) to (f) of section 641(1) of the
Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003  applies, and “ Young Carer Grant
” means a grant paid under the Carer’s Assistance (Young Carer Grants)
(Scotland) Regulations 2019 .

### Carer Support Payment


#### Overview


3

An individual is entitled to Carer Support Payment in accordance with these
Regulations if they meet the eligibility rules in—

3.a

regulation 4 (age criteria),

3.b

regulation 5 (provision of care to a cared for person),

3.c

regulations 6 to 11 (residence and presence conditions),

3.d

regulation 12 (entitlement to other benefits),

3.e

regulation 13 (individuals in education),

3.f

regulation 14 (earnings limit).

### Eligibility


#### Age criteria


4

4.1

Carer Support Payment may only be paid in respect of an individual who is 16
years of age or older.

4.2

Where an individual was born on 29 February, the individual’s birthday is to
be taken to fall on 28 February in a year which is not a leap year.

#### Provision of care to a cared for person


5

5.1

Carer Support Payment may only be paid to an individual in respect of a period
during which that individual provides regular and substantial care to a person
to whom a qualifying disability benefit is normally payable (a “cared for
person”).

5.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1), an individual shall only be treated as
being regularly and substantially engaged in caring for a cared for person on
every day in a week if they are, or are likely to be, regularly engaged for at
least 35 hours in an award week in caring for that cared for person.

5.3

No individual can be entitled to Carer Support Payment in respect of a cared
for person where another individual is entitled to—

5.3.a

Carer Support Payment,

5.3.b

Carer’s Allowance, or

5.3.c

the carer element of Universal Credit,

in respect of that cared for person.

5.4

The care must not be provided by an individual—

5.4.a

under or by virtue of a contract, unless the contract is of a kind specified
by regulations made under section 1(3)(a) of the Carers (Scotland) Act 2016
as not to be regarded as a contract for the purposes of that Act, or

5.4.b

as voluntary work done for a charity or other not-for-profit organisation for
which no payment is received other than reasonable expenses.

5.5

No individual can be entitled to more than one Carer Support Payment in
respect of the same period.

5.6

A period during which an individual fails to satisfy the requirement of
paragraph (2) is to be treated as a temporary break in care within the meaning
of regulation 40 (temporary break in care), provided the individual satisfies
the requirements set out in regulation 40.

5.7

For the avoidance of doubt, an individual may be entitled to Carer Support
Payment in respect of a cared for person where another individual is entitled
to Young Carer Grant for that cared for person.

#### Residence and presence conditions


6

6.1

An individual satisfies the residence and presence conditions where on any day
that individual—

6.1.a

is ordinarily resident in Scotland,

6.1.b

is habitually resident in the common travel area,

6.1.c

is not a person subject to immigration control within the meaning of section
115(9) of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 ,

6.1.d

is present in the common travel area, and

6.1.e

has been present in the common travel area for a period of, or for periods
amounting in the aggregate to, not less than 26 weeks of the 52 weeks
immediately preceding that day.

6.2

In this Part, “ common travel area ” has the meaning given in section 1(3) of
the Immigration Act 1971 .

6.3

The residence condition set out in paragraph (1)(a) does not apply where on
any day the individual—

6.3.a

is habitually resident in Ireland,

6.3.b

has a genuine and sufficient link to Scotland, and

6.3.c

is an individual—

6.3.c.i

to whom the Convention on Social Security between the Government of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of Ireland
signed at Dublin on 1 February 2019 , as modified from time to time in
accordance with any provision of it, applies, and

6.3.c.ii

in respect of whom the United Kingdom is, as a result, competent for the
payment of long term care benefits.

6.4

The reference in paragraph (3)(b) to an individual’s link to Scotland being
sufficient is to it being sufficiently close that if the individual were not
entitled to Carer Support Payment, paragraph (3) would be incompatible with
the Convention on Social Security between the Government of the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of Ireland signed at
Dublin on 1 February 2019.

6.5

Paragraph (1)(c) does not apply to a person subject to immigration control
within the meaning of section 115(9) of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999
where the person—

6.5.a

is lawfully working in the United Kingdom and is a national of a state with
which the United Kingdom has concluded an agreement which replaces in whole or
in part an agreement under Article 217 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the
European Union  which has ceased to apply to, and in, the United Kingdom,
providing, in the field of social security, for the equal treatment of workers
who are nationals of the signatory state and their families,

6.5.b

is a member of the family of, and living with, a person specified in sub-
paragraph (a), or

6.5.c

has been given leave to enter, or remain in, the United Kingdom by the
Secretary of State upon an undertaking by another person or persons pursuant
to the immigration rules, to be responsible for their maintenance and
accommodation.

6.6

The past presence condition in paragraph (1)(e) does not apply where an
individual—

6.6.a

has a terminal illness, or

6.6.b

cares for a cared for person who—

6.6.b.i

has a terminal illness,

6.6.b.ii

is in receipt of Armed Forces Independence Payment or Constant Attendance
Allowance at or above the normal maximum rate with Industrial Injuries
Disablement Benefit, or at the basic (full day) rate with a War Disablement
Pension, or

6.6.b.iii

is not required to meet a past presence condition by virtue of an exception
set out in—

6.6.b.iii.aa

regulation 2A(1) or 2C(1) of the Social Security (Attendance Allowance)
Regulations 1991 ,

6.6.b.iii.bb

regulation 2A(1) or 2C(1) of the Social Security (Disability Living Allowance)
Regulations 1991 ,

6.6.b.iii.cc

regulation 2A(1), 2B, 2C(1) or paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 of the Social
Security (Disability Living Allowance) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1992 ,

6.6.b.iii.dd

regulation 22 or 23A(1) of the Social Security (Personal Independence Payment)
Regulations 2013 ,

6.6.b.iii.ee

regulation 5(8), (10)(b), 5(10A) or 8 of the Disability Assistance for
Children and Young People (Scotland) Regulations 2021 ,  ...

6.6.b.iii.ff

regulation 15(7), 17(2), 18 or 19 of the Disability Assistance for Working Age
People (Scotland) Regulations 2022   , or

6.6.b.iii.gg

regulation 9(7), 11(2), 12 or 13 of the Disability Assistance for Older People
(Scotland) Regulations 2024.

6.7

For the purposes of paragraph (6), an individual or a cared for person has a
terminal illness where they are entitled to—

6.7.a

Disability Living Allowance by virtue of regulation 2(4) of the Social
Security (Disability Living Allowance) Regulations 1991,

6.7.b

Disability Living Allowance by virtue of regulation 2(3) of the Social
Security (Disability Living Allowance) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1992,

6.7.c

Attendance Allowance by virtue of section 66 of the 1992 Act,

6.7.d

Attendance Allowance by virtue of regulation 2(3) of the Social Security
(Attendance Allowance) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1992 ,

6.7.da

Pension Age Disability Payment by virtue of regulation 18 of the Disability
Assistance for Older People (Scotland) Regulations 2024,

6.7.e

Personal Independence Payment by virtue of regulation 21 of the Social
Security (Personal Independence Payment) Regulations 2013,

6.7.f

Universal Credit by virtue of regulations 16(2), 28(5)(a) or 40(5) read with
paragraph 1 of Schedule 9 of the Universal Credit Regulations 2013 ,

6.7.g

Employment and Support Allowance by virtue of regulations 7(1)(a), 16(1)(a),
31(1)(a), 45(2) or 85(2)(b) of the Employment and Support Allowance
Regulations 2013 ,

6.7.h

Personal Independence Payment by virtue of regulation 21 of the Personal
Independence Payment Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 ,

6.7.i

Child Disability Payment by virtue of regulation 15 of the Disability
Assistance for Children and Young People (Scotland) Regulations 2021,

6.7.j

Adult Disability Payment by virtue of regulation 26 of the Disability
Assistance for Working Age People (Scotland) Regulations 2022.

6.8

The habitual residence condition in paragraph (1)(b) and the past presence
condition in paragraph (1)(e) do not apply where an individual is a person
who—

6.8.a

has leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom granted under the
immigration rules by virtue of—

6.8.a.i

the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy, or

6.8.a.ii

the previous scheme for locally-employed staff in Afghanistan (sometimes
referred to as the ex-gratia scheme),

6.8.b

has been granted discretionary leave outside the immigration rules as a
dependant of a person referred to in sub-paragraph (a),

6.8.c

has leave granted under the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme,

6.8.d

has been granted refugee status or humanitarian protection under the
immigration rules,

6.8.e

has leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom as the dependant of a
person referred to in sub-paragraph (d),

6.8.f

has leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom granted under or outside
the immigration rules, has a right of abode in the United Kingdom within the
meaning given in section 2  of the Immigration Act 1971 or does not require
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom in accordance with section 3ZA
of that Act, where the individual—

6.8.f.i

was residing in Ukraine immediately before 1 January 2022, and

6.8.f.ii

left Ukraine in connection with the Russian invasion which took place on 24
February 2022,  ...

6.8.g

has leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom granted under or outside
the immigration rules, has a right of abode in the United Kingdom within the
meaning given in section 2 of the Immigration Act 1971 or does not require
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom in accordance with section 3ZA
of that Act, where the individual—

6.8.g.i

was residing in Sudan before 15 April 2023, and

6.8.g.ii

left Sudan in connection with the violence which rapidly escalated on 15 April
2023 in Khartoum and across Sudan  , or

6.8.h

has leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom granted under or outside
the immigration rules, a right of abode in the United Kingdom within the
meaning given in section 2 of the Immigration Act 1971 or does not require
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom in accordance with section 3ZA
of that Act, where the individual—

6.8.h.i

was residing in Israel, the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, East Jerusalem, the
Golan Heights or Lebanon immediately before 7 October 2023, and

6.8.h.ii

left Israel, the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, East Jerusalem, the Golan Heights
or Lebanon in connection with the Hamas terrorist attack in Israel on 7
October 2023 or the violence which rapidly escalated in the region following
the attack.

6.9

For the purposes of this regulation—

6.9.a

“ immigration rules ” means the rules laid before Parliament under section
3(2) of the Immigration Act 1971 ,

6.9.b

“ the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme ” means the scheme announced by the
United Kingdom Government on 18 August 2021 .

#### Temporary absence from the common travel area


7

7.1

Where an individual is temporarily absent from the common travel area, the
individual is to be treated as present in the common travel area during the
first—

7.1.a

4 weeks of any period of absence,

7.1.b

13 weeks of any period of absence where that period of absence, or any
extension to that period of absence, is for the specific purpose of caring for
a cared for person who is also absent from the common travel area and where
that cared for person is paid a qualifying disability benefit during that
period, or

7.1.c

26 weeks of any period of absence where—

7.1.c.i

that period of absence, or any extension to that period of absence, is for the
specific purpose of caring for a cared for person and is in connection with
arrangements made for the medical treatment of the cared for person for a
disease or bodily or mental disablement which commenced before leaving the
common travel area and where that cared for person is paid a qualifying
disability benefit during that period, and

7.1.c.ii

the arrangements relate to medical treatment—

7.1.c.ii.aa

outside the common travel area,

7.1.c.ii.bb

during the period when the cared for person is temporarily absent from the
common travel area, and

7.1.c.ii.cc

by, or under the supervision of, a person appropriately qualified to carry out
that treatment.

7.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1)—

7.2.a

an individual is “temporarily absent” if, at the beginning of the period of
absence, that absence is unlikely to exceed 52 weeks, and

7.2.b

“ medical treatment ” means medical, surgical, psychological or rehabilitative
treatment (including any course or diet regimen).

#### Serving members of His Majesty’s forces, civil servants and their family members


8

8.1

A relevant individual is to be treated as meeting the residence and presence
conditions set out in regulations 6(1)(a), (b) and (d) where on any day that
individual is outside the common travel area—

8.1.a

by reason of their capacity mentioned in paragraph (3)(a) provided that the
individual satisfied the residence and presence conditions set out in
regulation 6(1)(a), (b) and (d) immediately prior to the start of their
employment mentioned in paragraph (3)(a), or

8.1.b

by reason of being a person mentioned in paragraph (3)(b) living with an
individual to whom paragraph (3)(a) applies.

8.2

The past presence condition set out in regulation 6(1)(e) does not apply to a
relevant individual.

8.3

A “relevant individual” in paragraph (1) and (2) means an individual who is—

8.3.a

outside of the common travel area in their capacity as a—

8.3.a.i

serving member of His Majesty’s forces, or

8.3.a.ii

civil servant, or

8.3.b

living with a person mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) and—

8.3.b.i

is the child, step-child or child in care of that person,

8.3.b.ii

is the parent, step-parent or parent-in-law of that person, or

8.3.b.iii

is married to or in a civil partnership with that person, or is living
together with that person as if they were married or in a civil partnership.

8.4

In this regulation—

“ child in care ” means— under the law of Scotland, a child in respect of whom
a relevant individual listed in paragraph (3)(a)— is a foster carer within the
meaning of regulation 2 of the Looked After Children (Scotland) Regulations
2009 , is a kinship carer within the meaning of regulation 2 of the Looked
After Children (Scotland) Regulations 2009, has a kinship care order within
the meaning of section 72 of the Children and Young People (Scotland) Act 2014
, or under the law of England and Wales and Northern Ireland, a child in
respect of whom a person listed in paragraph (3)(a) has a relationship
equivalent to those listed under the law of Scotland, “ civil servant ” has
the meaning given by section 1(4) of the Constitutional Reform and Governance
Act 2010 , and “ serving member of His Majesty’s forces ” means a member of a
regular force or a reserve force (“ M ”) as defined, in each case, by section
374 (definitions applying for purposes of the whole Act) of the Armed Forces
Act 2006 , unless— M is under the age of 16, M is committing an offence under
section 8 of the Armed Forces Act 2006 (desertion), the force concerned is one
of His Majesty’s naval forces which M locally entered at an overseas base
without— previously being an insured person under the National Insurance Act
1965 , or paying or having previously paid one or more of the following
classes of contributions under the Social Security Act 1975  or the 1992 Act—
primary Class 1, Class 2, or Class 3, or the force concerned is one of His
Majesty’s military forces or His Majesty’s air forces which M entered, or was
recruited for, outside the United Kingdom and— where that force is one of His
Majesty’s military forces, the depot for M’s unit is outside the United
Kingdom, or where that force is one of His Majesty’s air forces, M is liable
under the terms of M’s engagement to serve only in a specified area outside
the United Kingdom.

#### Aircraft workers, mariners and continental shelf operations


9

9.1

An individual is to be treated as meeting the presence conditions set out in
regulation 6(1)(d) and (e) for any period where that individual is—

9.1.a

outside the common travel area in their capacity as an aircraft worker or a
mariner, or

9.1.b

in employment prescribed for the purposes of section 120 (employment at sea
(continental shelf operations)) of the 1992 Act  in connection with
continental shelf operations.

9.2

In this regulation—

“ aircraft worker ” means a person who is, or has been, employed under a
contract of service either as a pilot, commander, navigator or other member of
the crew of any aircraft, or in any other capacity on board any aircraft
where— the employment in that other capacity is for the purposes of the
aircraft or its crew or of any passengers or cargo or mail carried on that
aircraft, and the contract is entered into in the United Kingdom with a view
to its performance (in whole or in part) while the aircraft is in flight, but
does not include a person so far as that employment is as a serving member His
Majesty’s forces, and “ mariner ” means a person who is, or has been, in
employment under a contract of service either as a master or member of the
crew of any ship or vessel, or in any other capacity on board any ship or
vessel where— the employment in that other capacity is for the purposes of
that ship or vessel or its crew or any passenger or cargo or mail carried by
the ship or vessel, and the contract is entered into in the United Kingdom
with a view to its performance (in whole or in part) while the ship or vessel
is on voyage, but does not include a person in so far as that employment is as
a serving member of His Majesty’s forces.

#### Persons residing in the United Kingdom to whom a relevant EU regulation applies


10

10.1

The past presence condition set out in regulation 6(1)(e) (residence and
presence conditions) does not apply where on any day the individual is—

10.1.a

ordinarily resident in Scotland,

10.1.b

habitually resident in the United Kingdom,

10.1.c

an individual—

10.1.c.i

to whom the rules set out in a relevant EU regulation apply by virtue of—

10.1.c.i.aa

Title III of Part 2 of the EU withdrawal agreement,

10.1.c.i.bb

Part 3 or Article 23(4) of the Swiss citizens’ rights agreement (as defined in
section 39(1) of the European Union (Withdrawal Agreement) Act 2020  (“ the
2020 Act ”),

10.1.c.i.cc

Title III of the EEA EFTA separation agreement (as defined in section 39(1) of
the 2020 Act), or

10.1.c.i.dd

the agreement constituted by the exchange of letters set out in the schedule
of the Family Allowances, National Insurance and Industrial Injuries
(Gibraltar) Order 1974 ,

10.1.c.ii

in respect of whom the United Kingdom is, as a result, competent for payment
of sickness benefits in cash.

10.2

An individual to whom a relevant EU regulation applies is not entitled to
Carer Support Payment for a period unless during that period the United
Kingdom is competent for payment of sickness benefits in cash to the person
for the purposes of the relevant EU regulation in question.

#### Persons residing outside the United Kingdom to whom a relevant EU regulation applies


11

11.1

The residence and presence conditions set out in regulation 6(1) (residence
and presence conditions) do not apply in relation to Carer Support Payment
where on any day the individual satisfies the conditions in paragraph (2).

11.2

The conditions referred to in paragraph (1) are that the individual must—

11.2.a

be an individual—

11.2.a.i

to whom the rules set out in a relevant EU regulation apply by virtue of—

11.2.a.i.aa

Title III of Part 2 of the EU withdrawal agreement,

11.2.a.i.bb

Part 3 or Article 23(4) of the Swiss citizens’ rights agreement (as defined in
section 39(1) of the European Union (Withdrawal Agreement) Act 2020 (“ the
2020 Act ”),

11.2.a.i.cc

Title III of the EEA EFTA separation agreement (as defined in section 39(1) of
the 2020 Act), or

11.2.a.i.dd

the agreement constituted by the exchange of letters set out in the schedule
of the Family Allowances, National Insurance and Industrial Injuries
(Gibraltar) Order 1974, and

11.2.a.ii

in respect of whom the United Kingdom is, as a result, competent for payment
of sickness benefits in cash,

11.2.b

be habitually resident in—

11.2.b.i

Switzerland,

11.2.b.ii

an EEA state, or

11.2.b.iii

Gibraltar, and

11.2.c

have a genuine and sufficient link to Scotland.

11.3

The reference in paragraph (2)(c) to an individual’s link to Scotland being
sufficient is to it being sufficiently close that if the individual were not
entitled to Carer Support Payment, paragraph (2) would be incompatible with
the applicable agreement mentioned in sub-paragraph (a)(i) of that paragraph.

11.4

An individual to whom a relevant EU regulation applies is not entitled to
Carer Support Payment for a period unless during that period the United
Kingdom is competent for payment of sickness benefits in cash to the person
for the purposes of the relevant EU regulation in question.

#### Entitlement to other benefits


12

12.1

An individual is not entitled to Carer Support Payment in respect of a cared
for person for any period that they are entitled to—

12.1.a

Carer’s Allowance,

12.1.b

the carer element of Universal Credit in respect of a different cared for
person, or

12.1.c

Young Carer Grant.

12.2

An individual may be entitled to Carer Support Payment in respect of a cared
for person where they have previously been entitled to Young Carer Grant.

#### Individuals in education


13

13.1

An individual who has not reached the age of 20 will not be entitled to Carer
Support Payment if they are—

13.1.a

undertaking a course of full-time education, which is not advanced education
and which is not provided by virtue of their employment or any office held by
them, or

13.1.b

being provided with “appropriate full-time education” in England within the
meaning of section 4 (appropriate full-time education or training) of the
Education and Skills Act 2008 , which is not—

13.1.b.i

a course in preparation for a degree, a diploma of higher education, a higher
national certificate, a higher national diploma, a teaching qualification, any
other course which is of a standard above ordinary national diploma, a
national diploma, or national certificate of Edexcel, a general certificate of
education (advanced level), or Scottish national qualifications at higher or
advanced higher level,

13.1.b.ii

provided by virtue of their employment of any office held by them,

13.1.c

undertaking approved training that is not provided by means of a contract of
employment.

13.2

This regulation does not apply to an individual if they are—

13.2.a

without parental support,

13.2.b

entitled to disability living allowance, child disability payment, adult
disability payment or personal independence payment and, on a date before the
date on which the individual starts receiving education—

13.2.b.i

it has been determined that they have limited capability for work or limited
capability for work and work-related activity on the basis of an assessment
under Part 5 of the Universal Credit Regulations 2013  or under Part 4 or 5 of
the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations 2013 , or

13.2.b.ii

they are treated as having limited capability for work under schedule 8 of the
Universal Credit Regulations 2013 or limited capability for work and work-
related activity under schedule 9 of the Universal Credit Regulations 2013,

13.2.c

responsible for a child or a qualifying young person,

13.2.d

single and is a foster parent with whom a child is placed,

13.2.e

a member of a couple—

13.2.e.i

and the other member of the couple is not undertaking a course of education,
or

13.2.e.ii

both of whom are receiving education, and the other member of the couple falls
within one of the exceptions set out in paragraph (2)(a) to (d).

13.3

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(a), an individual is without parental
support if they are not being looked after by a local authority and—

13.3.a

has no parent,

13.3.b

cannot live with their parents because—

13.3.b.i

the individual is estranged from them, or

13.3.b.ii

there is a serious risk to the individual’s physical or mental health, or that
individual would suffer significant harm if the individual lived with them,

13.3.c

is living away from their parents, and neither parent is able to support the
individual financially because that parent—

13.3.c.i

has a physical or mental impairment,

13.3.c.ii

is detained in custody pending trial or sentence upon conviction or under a
sentence imposed by a court, or

13.3.c.iii

is prohibited from entering or re-entering Great Britain.

13.4

For the purposes of this regulation—

“ advanced education ” means full-time education (which is not school
education within the meaning of the Education (Scotland) Act 1980 ) for the
purposes of— a course in preparation for a degree, a diploma of higher
education, a higher national certificate, a higher national diploma, or a
teaching qualification, or any other course which is of a standard above
ordinary national diploma, a national diploma or national certificate of
Edexcel, a general certificate of education (advanced level), or Scottish
national qualifications at higher or advanced higher level, “ approved
training ” means arrangements made by the Government— in relation to Wales,
known as “Traineeships” or “Foundation Apprenticeships”, in relation to
Scotland, known as “No One Left Behind”, or in relation to Northern Ireland,
known as “PEACE IV Children and Young People 2.1”, “Training for Success”, or
“Skills for Life and Work”, “ arrangements made by the Government ” means
arrangements— in relation to England and Wales, made by the Secretary of State
under section 2 of the Employment and Training Act 1973 , in relation to
Scotland, made— by the Scottish Ministers under section 2 of the Employment
and Training Act 1973, by Scottish Enterprise or Highlands and Islands
Enterprise under section 2 of the Enterprise and New Towns (Scotland) Act 1990
, or in relation to Northern Ireland, made by the Department for Communities
or the Department for the Economy under sections 1 and 3 of the Employment and
Training Act (Northern Ireland) 1950 , “ foster parent ” means— under the law
of Scotland, a foster carer or kinship carer with whom a child is placed under
the Looked After Children (Scotland) Regulations 2009 , or under the law of
England and Wales and Northern Ireland, a person with whom a child is placed
who has an equivalent relationship with the child to those listed under the
law of Scotland, “full-time education”— is education undertaken in pursuit of
a course, where the average time spent during term time in receiving tuition,
engaging in practical work, or supervised study, or taking examinations
exceeds 21 hours per week, and in calculating the time spent in pursuit of the
course, no account is taken of time occupied by meal breaks or spent on
unsupervised study, and “ qualifying young person ” has the same meaning as
regulation 5 of the Universal Credit Regulations 2013.

#### Earnings limit


14

14.1

An individual is not entitled to Carer Support Payment in any award week in
which their earnings in respect of that award week exceed  £151 .

14.2

Earnings are to be calculated in accordance with schedule 2.

### Making of applications and payments and duration of eligibility


#### Making payments


15

15.1

Where Carer Support Payment is payable in respect of an individual, the
Scottish Ministers may, where they consider it appropriate, make the payment
to another person to be used for the benefit of the individual.

15.2

Where the Scottish Ministers consider, for any reason, that it is no longer
appropriate for a particular person who falls within paragraph (1) to continue
to receive the payment, they may cease making payment to that person.

#### Amount and form of Carer Support Payment


16

16.1

Subject to regulation 21 (amount and form of carer support payment where
payments are backdated), the weekly rate of payment of Carer Support Payment
is  £81.90 .

16.2

For any award week where an individual is entitled to one or more overlapping
benefit, the amount of Carer Support Payment that is to be given to the
individual is to be reduced—

16.2.a

by the amount of the overlapping benefit paid, or

16.2.b

where the amount of the overlapping benefit is equal to or greater than the
amount of Carer Support Payment, the value of Carer Support Payment that is to
be given to the individual is £0.

16.3

In this regulation “ overlapping benefit ” means—

16.3.a

State Pension or Retirement Pension,

16.3.b

Incapacity Benefit,

16.3.c

Severe Disablement Allowance,

16.3.d

Unemployability Supplement that is paid with Industrial Injuries Disablement
benefit or War Pension,

16.3.e

Widow’s Allowance or Widow’s Benefit or Widowed Parent’s Allowance or Widowed
Mother’s Allowance or Widow’s Pension, excluding additional pension,

16.3.f

Bereavement Allowance,

16.3.g

War Widow’s or Widower’s Pension,

16.3.h

Maternity Allowance,

16.3.i

Industrial Death Benefit,

16.3.j

Contribution-based Jobseeker’s Allowance,

16.3.k

Contributory Employment and Support Allowance,

16.3.l

Training Allowance.

16.4

When the cared for person dies and an individual was entitled to Carer Support
Payment in respect of that cared for person immediately before their death,
the individual’s entitlement to Carer Support Payment will continue to be paid
until whichever of the following comes first—

16.4.a

until the first day of the award week following the award week in which the
individual ceases to satisfy any of the eligibility requirements set out in
regulations 6 to 14, or

16.4.b

for a period of 8 award weeks after the first day of the award week following
the award week in which the cared for person died,.

16.5

Carer Support Payment may only be given as money, except as provided for by—

16.5.a

regulation 17 (abatement in respect of a relevant individual), or

16.5.b

regulation 26 (form of payment – giving Carer Support Payment by way of
deduction).

16.6

For the purposes of this regulation—

“ 1914-1918 War Injuries Scheme ” means any scheme made under the Injuries in
War (Compensation) Act 1914  or under the Injuries in War Compensation Act
1914 (Session 2)  or any Government scheme for compensation in respect of
persons injured in any merchant ship or fishing vessel as the result of
hostilities during the 1914-1918 War, “ Bereavement Allowance ” means an
allowance referred to in section 39B of the 1992 Act subject to the
transitional provisions specified in article 4 of the Pensions Act 2014
(Commencement No.10) Order 2017, “ Contribution-based Jobseeker’s Allowance ”
means an allowance under the Jobseekers Act 1995 as amended by the provisions
of Part 1 of Schedule 14 to the Welfare Reform Act 2012 that remove references
to an income-based allowance, and a contribution-based allowance under the
Jobseekers Act as that Act has effect apart from those provisions, “
Contributory Employment and Support Allowance ” means an allowance under Part
1 of the Welfare Reform Act 2007 as amended by the provisions of Schedule 3,
and Part 1 of Schedule 14, to the Welfare Reform Act 2012 Act that remove
references to an income-related allowance, and a contributory allowance under
Part 1 of the Welfare Reform Act 2007 as that Part has effect apart from those
provisions, “ Incapacity Benefit ” means a benefit referred to in section 30A
of the 1992 Act, “ Industrial Death Benefit ” means a benefit referred to in
Part VI of Schedule 7 to the 1992 Act, “ Maternity Allowance ” means an
allowance referred to in sections 35 and 35B of the 1992 Act, “ Personal
Injuries Scheme ” means any scheme made under the Personal Injuries (Emergency
Provisions) Act 1939 or under the Pensions (Navy, Army, Air Force and
Mercantile Marine) Act 1939, “ Retirement Pension ” means a pension payable
under Part II and Part III of the 1992 Act, excluding any additional pension
or graduated retirement benefit, “ Service Pensions Instrument ” means any
instrument described in sub-paragraphs (a) or (b) below in so far, but only in
so far, as the pensions or other benefits provided by that instrument are not
calculated or determined by reference to length of service, namely:— any
instrument made in exercise of powers— referred to in section 12(1) of the
Social Security (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1977  (pensions or other
benefits for disablement or death due to service in the armed forces of the
Crown); or under section 1 of the Polish Resettlement Act 1947 (pensions and
other benefits for disablement or death due to service in certain Polish
forces); or any instrument under which a pension or other benefit may be paid
to a person (not being a member of the armed forces of the Crown) out of
public funds in respect of death or disablement, wound, injury or disease due
to service in any nursing service or other auxiliary service of any of the
armed forces of the Crown, or in any other organisation established under the
control of the Defence Council or formerly established under the control of
the Admiralty, the Army Council or the Air Council, “ Severe Disablement
Allowance ” means an allowance referred to in sections 68 and 69 of the 1992
Act, “ State Pension ” means a pension payable under Part 1 of the Pensions
Act 2014, “ Training Allowance ” means an allowance (whether by way of
periodical grants or otherwise) payable out of public funds by a Government
department or by or on behalf of Scottish Enterprise, Highlands and Islands
Enterprise, the Secretary of State, the National Assembly for Wales to a
person for their maintenance, or in respect of any dependant of theirs, for
the period, or part of the period, during which they are following a course of
training or instruction provided by, or in pursuance of arrangements made
with, that department or approved by that department in relation to them or so
provided or approved by or on behalf of the Scottish Enterprise, Highlands and
Islands Enterprise, the National Assembly for Wales or the said Commission but
it does not include— an allowance paid by any Government department to or in
respect of a person by reason of the fact that they are following a course of
full-time education or is training as a teacher, or a payment made by or on
behalf of Scottish Enterprise, Highlands and Islands Enterprise or the
Secretary of State to any person by way of training premium or training bonus
in consequence of that person’s use of facilities for training provided in
pursuance of arrangements made under section 2 of the Employment and Training
Act 1973 or section 2 of the Enterprise and New Towns (Scotland) Act 1990, “
Unemployability Supplement ” includes an increase on account of
unemployability under any Personal Injuries Scheme, Service Pensions
Instrument or 1914-1918 War Injuries Scheme, “ War Widow’s Pension ” means any
widow’s or surviving civil partner’s pension or allowance granted in respect
of a death due to service or war injury and payable by virtue of any enactment
mentioned in paragraph (a) of the definition of “War Disablement Pension” in
regulation 2, or a pension or allowance for a widow or surviving civil partner
granted under any scheme mentioned in section 641(1)(e) or (f) of the Income
Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003, “ Widowed Mother’s Allowance ” means an
allowance referred to in section 37 of the 1992 Act, “ Widowed Parent’s
Allowance ” means an allowance referred to in section 39A of the 1992 Act, “
Widow’s Pension ” means a pension referred to in section 38 of the 1992 Act.

#### Abatement in respect of a relevant benefit


17

17.1

This regulation applies where an individual—

17.1.a

makes an application for Carer Support Payment, or

17.1.b

becomes entitled to an increased amount of Carer Support Payment following a
determination without application, and

17.1.c

that individual is (or if they are a member of a couple, their partner is) in
receipt of a relevant benefit at any time during the abatement period.

17.2

Where this regulation applies, Carer Support Payment may be given (in whole or
in part) to the Secretary of State in order to meet, or contribute towards
meeting, any liability the individual has to the Secretary of State in
connection with a relevant benefit, provided that the individual has—

17.2.a

agreed to the assistance being given in that form, or

17.2.b

unreasonably refused to agree to the assistance being given in that form.

17.3

The amount of Carer Support Payment that is to be given by way of payment to
the Secretary of State in accordance with paragraph (2) is to be the
difference between—

17.3.a

the total amount of any relevant benefits the individual or their partner is
paid during the abatement period, and

17.3.b

the total amount of any relevant benefits the individual or their partner
would have been paid during the abatement period had their entitlement to
those relevant benefits been adjusted as a result of their entitlement to
Carer Support Payment (which, for the avoidance of doubt, includes any carer
premia, carer additions, or carer elements that they would be entitled to
receive).

17.4

For the purposes of this regulation—

“ abatement period ” means— where sub-paragraph (1)(a) applies, a period, as
short as reasonably practicable, beginning with the first day of the award
week in which the individual’s entitlement to Carer Support Payment begins and
ending on the day before the first day of the award week in which the
individual’s first payment of Carer Support Payment is made, or where sub
paragraph (1)(b) applies, a period, as short as reasonably practicable,
beginning with the first day of the award week in which the individual’s
entitlement to Carer Support Payment increases and ending on the day before
the first day of the award week in which the individual received the first
payment of Carer Support Payment at that increased amount, “ Income Support ”
means a payment made under section 124 of the 1992 Act, “ Income-based
Jobseeker’s Allowance ” means a jobseeker’s allowance entitlement to which is
based on the individual’s satisfying conditions which include those set out in
section 3 of the Jobseeker’s Act 1995 , or a joint-claim jobseeker’s
allowance, “ Income-related Employment and Support Allowance ” means an
income-related allowance under Part 1 of the Welfare Reform Act 2007 , “
joint-claim jobseeker’s allowance ” means a jobseeker’s allowance entitlement
to which arises by virtue of section 1(2B) of the Jobseeker’s Act 1995, and “
Pension Credit ” means a pension credit under the State Pension Credit Act
2002 , and “ relevant benefit ” means— Income Support, Income-based
Jobseeker’s Allowance, Income-related Employment and Support Allowance, or
Pension Credit.

#### When an application is to be treated as made and beginning of entitlement to assistance


18

18.1

An application for Carer Support Payment is to be treated as made on the day
it is received by the Scottish Ministers.

18.2

Where, on the basis of an application, a determination is made that an
individual is entitled to Carer Support Payment, entitlement to assistance is
to begin—

18.2.a

on the first day of the award week in which the application is treated as made
in accordance with paragraph (1),

18.2.b

where the individual has notified the Scottish Ministers that they wish their
entitlement to assistance to begin on a date prior to the day on which their
application is treated as made, on the first day of the award week in which
that chosen date falls, provided that—

18.2.b.i

the date chosen by the individual is no more than 13 weeks prior to the day on
which their application is treated as made, and

18.2.b.ii

the individual satisfied the eligibility requirements set out in Part 3 of
these Regulations on that chosen date, or

18.2.c

where regulation 19 applies (applications made within 13 weeks of a qualifying
disability benefit), a date to be chosen by the Scottish Ministers in
accordance with that regulation.

18.3

Where the individual does not satisfy the eligibility requirements set out in
Part 3 of these Regulations on the chosen date mentioned in paragraph (2)(b),
the Scottish Ministers may choose that entitlement to assistance begins on a
later date, provided the individual satisfied the eligibility requirements on
that later date.

18.4

For the purposes of section 38(3) of the 2018 Act, the period covered by an
application for Carer Support Payment—

18.4.a

under paragraph (2)(a)—

18.4.a.i

begins on the day on which the application is treated as having been made, and

18.4.a.ii

ends on the day on which the determination of entitlement is made,

18.4.b

under paragraph (2)(b) or (c)—

18.4.b.i

begins on the date chosen or the later date in accordance with paragraph (3),

18.4.b.ii

ends on the day on which the determination of entitlement is made.

#### Entitlement beginning before individual satisfied the residence requirements in regulation 46

18A

18A.1

This paragraph applies where an individual—

18A.1.a

is undertaking—

18A.1.a.i

a course of full-time advanced education,

18A.1.a.ii

a course of full-time education which is provided by virtue of their
employment or any office held by them, or

18A.1.a.iii

a course of full-time education and has reached the age of 20,

18A.1.b

is exempt from fulfilling the past presence test in regulation 6(1)(e)
(residence and presence) by virtue of an exception mentioned in regulation
6(6), or

18A.1.c

would not satisfy the past presence test in regulation 9(1)(c) (residence and
presence in Great Britain) of the Social Security (Invalid Care Allowance)
Regulations 1976 at any point between 19 November 2023 and the date on which
they first satisfied the eligibility criteria prescribed in these regulations
(including those prescribed in regulation 46 (transitory provision - initial
period for applications), insofar as it applies).

18A.2

Where, on the basis of an application, a determination is made that an
individual to whom paragraph (1) applies is entitled to Carer Support Payment,
entitlement to assistance is to begin—

18A.2.a

on the first day of the award week in which the application is treated as made
in accordance with regulation 18(1) (when an application is to be treated as
made and beginning of entitlement to assistance), or

18A.2.b

where the individual has notified the Scottish Ministers that they wish their
entitlement to assistance to begin on a date prior to the day on which their
application is treated as made, on the first day of the award week in which
that chosen date falls, provided that—

18A.2.b.i

the date chosen by the individual is no earlier than 19 November 2023,

18A.2.b.ii

the individual’s application is received by the Scottish Ministers—

18A.2.b.ii.aa

on or before the relevant date, or

18A.2.b.ii.bb

after the relevant date, provided the Scottish Ministers consider that the
individual has good reason for not making their application on or before the
relevant date, and

18A.2.b.iii

the individual satisfied the eligibility requirements set out in Part 3 of
these Regulations on that chosen date.

18A.3

For the purposes of this regulation—

“ advanced education ” has the same meaning as in regulation 13(4), “ full-
time education ” has the same meaning as in regulation 13(4), “ the relevant
date ” means the date specified paragraph 2A of schedule 1.

#### Entitlement beginning before individual satisfied the residence requirements in regulation 46 – individuals in education mentioned in regulation 13(2)

18B

18B.1

This paragraph applies to any individual—

18B.1.i

who has not reached the age of 20, and

18B.1.ii

to whom regulation 13(2) (individuals in education) applies.

18B.2

Where, on the basis of an application, a determination is made that an
individual to whom paragraph (1) applies is entitled to Carer Support Payment,
entitlement to assistance is to begin—

18B.2.a

on the first day of the award week in which the application is treated as made
in accordance with regulation 18(1) (when an application is to be treated as
made and beginning of entitlement to assistance), or

18B.2.b

where the individual has notified the Scottish Ministers that they wish their
entitlement to assistance to begin on a date prior to the day on which their
application is treated as made, on the first day of the award week in which
that chosen date falls, provided that—

18B.2.b.i

the date chosen by the individual is no earlier than 23 June 2024,

18B.2.b.ii

the individual’s application is received by the Scottish Ministers—

18B.2.b.ii.aa

on or before the relevant date, or

18B.2.b.ii.bb

after the relevant date, provided the Scottish Ministers consider that the
individual has good reason for not making their application on or before the
relevant date, and

18B.2.b.iii

the individual satisfied the eligibility requirements set out in Part 3 of
these Regulations on that chosen date.

18B.3

For the purposes of this regulation—

“ advanced education ” has the same meaning as in regulation 13(4), “ full-
time education ” has the same meaning as in regulation 13(4), “ the relevant
date ” means the date specified in paragraph 2B of schedule 1.

#### Applications made within 13 weeks of a qualifying disability benefit decision


19

19.1

Where an individual makes an application for Carer Support Payment in respect
of a cared for person within 13 weeks of a relevant qualifying disability
benefit decision, the Scottish Ministers may determine that entitlement to
Carer Support Payment begins on the first day of the award week in which, as a
result of that relevant qualifying disability benefit decision, entitlement to
that benefit begins, provided the individual satisfied the eligibility
requirements set out in Part 3 of these Regulations on that date.

19.2

Where the individual does not satisfy the eligibility requirements set out in
Part 3 of these Regulations on the date on which the relevant qualifying
disability benefit decision falls, the Scottish Ministers may determine that
entitlement to Carer Support Payment begins on a later date, provided the
individual satisfies those eligibility requirements on that later date.

19.3

For the purposes of this regulation, “ relevant qualifying disability benefit
decision ” means a decision—

19.3.a

made by the Secretary of State, the Scottish Ministers, or the Department for
Communities in Northern Ireland—

19.3.a.i

on a claim or an application, or

19.3.a.ii

on revision, determination of entitlement, or supersession, or

19.3.b

on appeal whether by the First-tier Tribunal, the First-tier Tribunal for
Scotland, the Upper Tribunal, the court, the Northern Ireland Appeal Tribunal
or the Northern Ireland Social Security and Child Support Commissioner,

awarding a qualifying disability benefit to the cared for person mentioned in
paragraph (1).

#### Entitlement beginning before the commencement of these Regulations


20

Where the Scottish Ministers make a determination under regulation 19
(applications made within 13 weeks of a qualifying disability benefit
decision) the effect of which is that an individual’s entitlement to Carer
Support Payment would begin on a date before the commencement of these
Regulations—

20.a

the individual is treated as having made a claim for Carer’s Allowance under
section 70 of the 1992 Act for the period starting with that date and ending
on the day before the date of commencement of these Regulations,

20.b

the determination is to be made on the assumption that the individual
satisfied the eligibility requirements in section 70 of the 1992 Act, read
with the Social Security (Invalid Care Allowance) Regulations 1976  for that
period, and

20.c

any payments of Carer Support Payment made in respect of that period are to be
treated as though they were payments of Carer’s Allowance.

#### Amount and form of Carer Support Payment where payments are backdated


21

Any payment of Carer Support Payment made in respect of a period—

21.a

before the commencement of these Regulations is to be paid at the weekly rate
specified in paragraph 4 of Part III of schedule 4 of the 1992 Act, or

21.b

after the commencement of these Regulations is to be paid at the weekly rate
specified in regulation 16(1) (amount and form of Carer Support Payment),

as it had effect during the period to which that payment relates.

#### Time of payment


22

Where an award of Carer Support Payment is made, the Scottish Ministers are
to—

22.a

make the first payment of assistance on a date specified in the notice of
determination, and

22.b

inform the individual that any subsequent payment will be made—

22.b.i

4 weekly in arrears, or

22.b.ii

weekly in advance.

#### Temporary stop in entitlement


23

23.1

This paragraph applies where the Scottish Ministers have made a determination
without application under regulation 36 (determination following a change of
circumstances etc.) that an individual is no longer entitled to Carer Support
Payment in respect of a cared for person because—

23.1.a

the individual’s earnings in respect of an award week exceeded the earnings
limit set out in regulation 14,

23.1.b

the cared for person has voluntarily relinquished their entitlement to their
qualifying disability benefit and the individual therefore no longer satisfies
the requirements of regulation 5(1) (provision of care to a cared for person)
in respect of an award week, or

23.1.c

subject to regulation 40 (temporary break in care), the individual failed to
satisfy the requirements of regulation 5(1) (provision of care to a cared for
person) in respect of an award week.

23.2

Where paragraph (1) applies, the Scottish Ministers are to make a
determination without application of the individual’s entitlement to Carer
Support Payment if, within 26 weeks of the determination mentioned in
paragraph (1), the Scottish Ministers establish that the individual satisfies
the eligibility requirements set out in Part 3 of these Regulations.

23.3

The duty on the Scottish Ministers to make a determination without application
mentioned in paragraph (2) does not apply where another individual has been
awarded—

23.3.a

Carer Support Payment,

23.3.b

Carer’s Allowance, or

23.3.c

the carer element of Universal Credit,

in respect of the cared for person mentioned in paragraph (1).

23.4

This paragraph applies where an individual who has an ongoing entitlement to
Carer Support Payment cares for a cared for person whose qualifying disability
benefit has been—

23.4.a

reduced to £0,

23.4.b

ended as a result of the cared for person being—

23.4.b.i

admitted to a hospital or care home, or

23.4.b.ii

in legal detention,

23.4.c

suspended as a result of—

23.4.c.i

the circumstances mentioned in—

23.4.c.i.aa

regulation 26A(3)(a) of the Disability Assistance for Children and Young
People (Scotland) Regulations 2021 ,  ...

23.4.c.i.bb

regulation 38(3)(a) of the Disability Assistance for Working Age People
(Scotland) Regulations 2022   , or

23.4.c.i.cc

regulation 30(3)(a) of the Disability Assistance for Older People (Scotland)
Regulations 2024,

23.4.c.ii

a failure to provide information in accordance with—

23.4.c.ii.aa

regulation 17 of the Social Security and Child Support (Decisions and Appeals)
Regulations 1999 ,

23.4.c.ii.bb

regulation 17 of the Social Security and Child Support (Decisions and Appeals)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1999 ,

23.4.c.ii.cc

regulation 45 of the Universal Credit, Personal Independence Payment,
Jobseeker’s Allowance and Employment and Support Allowance (Decisions and
Appeals) Regulations 2013 , or

23.4.c.ii.dd

regulation 44 of the Universal Credit, Personal Independence Payment,
Jobseeker’s Allowance and Employment and Support Allowance (Decisions and
Appeals) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 , or

23.4.c.iii

the circumstances mentioned in—

23.4.c.iii.aa

regulation 16(3)(a)(i) or (ii) of the Social Security and Child Support
(Decisions and Appeals) Regulations 1999,

23.4.c.iii.bb

regulation 16(3)(a)(i) or (ii) of the Social Security and Child Support
(Decisions and Appeals) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1999 ,

23.4.c.iii.cc

regulation 44(2)(a)(i) or (ii) of the Universal Credit, Personal Independence
Payment, Jobseeker’s Allowance and Employment and Support Allowance (Decisions
and Appeals) Regulations 2013, or

23.4.c.iii.dd

regulation 43(2)(a)(i) or (ii) of the Universal Credit, Personal Independence
Payment, Jobseeker’s Allowance and Employment and Support Allowance (Decisions
and Appeals) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016.

23.5

Where paragraph (4) applies, the Scottish Ministers are to make a
determination without receiving an application that the individual is no
longer entitled to Carer Support Payment.

23.6

Where paragraph (4)(a) or (b) applies, the determination comes into effect on
the first day of the award week following the award week in which the cared
for person’s qualifying disability benefit has been ended or reduced to £0.

23.7

Where paragraph (4)(c) applies, the determination comes into effect on the
first day of the award week following the day on which the cared for person’s
qualifying disability benefit has been suspended for 4 weeks.

23.8

Where paragraph (5) applies, the Scottish Ministers are to make a
determination without application of the individual’s entitlement to Carer
Support Payment if, within 26 weeks of the determination mentioned in
paragraph (5), the Scottish Ministers establish that—

23.8.a

a determination is made that the value of the qualifying disability benefit
that is to be given to the cared for person is an amount more than £0, or

23.8.b

the suspension of the cared for person’s qualifying disability benefit
mentioned in paragraph (4)(c) is ended and the cared for person would have
been entitled to the qualifying disability benefit during the period of
suspension.

23.9

Where paragraph (2) applies, the individual’s entitlement to assistance
begins—

23.9.a

where the individual notifies the Scottish Ministers that they satisfy the
eligibility requirements set out in Part 3 of these Regulations within 13
weeks of that change occurring, on the first day of the award week in which
that change occurred,

23.9.b

where the individual notifies the Scottish Ministers that they satisfy the
eligibility requirements set out in Part 3 of these Regulations later than 13
weeks of the change occurring, but where the Scottish Ministers consider that
the individual has good reason for not notifying the change within 13 weeks,
on the first day of the award week in which that change occurred,

23.9.c

where the individual notifies the Scottish Ministers that they satisfy the
eligibility requirements set out in Part 3 of these Regulations later than 13
weeks of the change occurring and where the Scottish Ministers do not consider
that the individual has good reason for not notifying that change within 13
weeks, on the first day of the award week in which the individual notified
that change, or

23.9.d

in any other case, the first day of the award week in which the individual
satisfies the eligibility requirements set out in Part 3 of these Regulations.

23.10

Where paragraph (8)(a) applies, the individual’s entitlement to assistance
begins—

23.10.a

where the individual notifies the Scottish Ministers that the cared for
person’s qualifying disability benefit is paid at an amount more than £0
within 13 weeks of that change occurring, on the first day of the award week
in which that change occurred,

23.10.b

where the individual notifies the Scottish Ministers that the cared for
person’s qualifying disability benefit is paid at an amount more than £0 later
than 13 weeks of the change occurring, but where the Scottish Ministers
consider that the individual has good reason for not notifying the change
within 13 weeks, on the first day of the award week in which that change
occurred,

23.10.c

where the individual notifies the Scottish Ministers that the cared for
person’s qualifying disability benefit is paid at an amount more than £0 later
than 13 weeks of the change occurring and where the Scottish Ministers do not
consider that the individual has good reason for not notifying that change
within 13 weeks, on the first day of the award week in which the individual
notified that change, or

23.10.d

in any other case, the first day of the award week in which the cared for
person’s qualifying disability benefit is paid at an amount more than £0.

23.11

Where paragraph (8)(b) applies, the individual’s entitlement to assistance
begins—

23.11.a

where it is determined that during the period of suspension, the cared for
person would have been entitled to a qualifying disability benefit in respect
of that period, on the first day of the award week in which the cared for
person’s entitlement to the qualifying disability benefit begins,

23.11.b

in any other event, on the first day of the award week in which the suspension
is ended.

#### Multiple applications involving the same cared for person


24

24.1

Where the Scottish Ministers receive two or more applications for Carer
Support Payment from different individuals in respect of the same cared for
person, the Scottish Ministers must determine the application made first
before determining any other application.

24.2

Where, but for regulation 5(3) (provision of care to a cared for person), two
or more individuals would be entitled to Carer Support Payment in respect of
the same cared for person for the same period, only one of them may be
entitled, being either—

24.2.a

one of them as they may jointly agree in accordance with paragraph (5), or

24.2.b

in absence of such agreement, one of them as may be determined by the Scottish
Ministers in accordance with paragraph (6).

24.3

Where, but for regulation 5(3) (provision of care to a cared for person), a
person (‘carer A’) would be entitled to Carer’s Allowance payable by the
Scottish Ministers and another person (‘carer B’) would be entitled to Carer
Support Payment in respect of the same cared for person for the same period,
carer B will only be entitled if—

24.3.a

carer A and carer B jointly agree in accordance with paragraph (5) that carer
A will not be entitled, or

24.3.b

in absence of such agreement, the Scottish Ministers determine that carer B is
or remains entitled to Carer Support Payment in respect of that period.

24.4

Where, but for regulation 5(3) (provision of care to a cared for person), a
person (‘carer A’) would have a relevant entitlement and another person
(‘carer B’) would be entitled to Carer Support Payment in respect of the same
cared for person for the same period, carer B will only be entitled to Carer
Support Payment if—

24.4.a

carer A and carer B jointly agree in accordance with paragraph (5) that carer
A will not have a relevant entitlement, or

24.4.b

in absence of such agreement, the Scottish Ministers determine that carer B is
or remains entitled to Carer Support Payment in respect of that period,
following—

24.4.b.i

in a case where the relevant entitlement is to—

24.4.b.i.aa

a Carer’s Allowance payable by the Secretary of State under section 70 of the
1992 Act,

24.4.b.i.bb

the carer element of Universal Credit payable by the Secretary of State under
section 12(2)(c) of the Welfare Reform Act 2012,

consultation with the Secretary of State,

24.4.b.ii

in a case where the relevant entitlement is to—

24.4.b.ii.aa

a Carer’s Allowance payable by the Department for Communities in Northern
Ireland under section 70 of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits
(Northern Ireland) Act 1992,

24.4.b.ii.bb

the carer element of Universal Credit payable by the Department for
Communities in Northern Ireland under Article 17(2)(c) of the Welfare Reform
(Northern Ireland) Order 2015,

consultation with the Department for Communities in Northern Ireland.

24.5

An agreement under paragraph (2)(a), (3)(a) or (4)(a) is to be made by giving
the Scottish Ministers a notice in writing signed by the individuals mentioned
in paragraph (2), (3) or (4) as the case may be, specifying one of them as the
individual to be entitled to assistance.

24.6

When making a determination under paragraph (2)(b), (3)(b) or (4)(b), the
Scottish Ministers must have regard to factors including but not limited to—

24.6.a

the best interests of the cared for person,

24.6.b

whether any of the individuals mentioned in paragraph (2), (3) or (4)—

24.6.b.i

are family members of the cared for person,

24.6.b.ii

live with or near the cared for person,

24.6.b.iii

receive any benefits on behalf of, or as a result of their responsibility for,
the cared for person.

24.7

The Scottish Ministers may, having considered the factors set out in paragraph
(6), make a determination without application that—

24.7.a

one of the individuals mentioned in paragraph (2) or (3), or

24.7.b

following consultation with the Secretary of State or, as the case may be, the
Department for Communities in Northern Ireland, carer B mentioned in paragraph
(4),

who has ongoing entitlement to Carer Support Payment, is no longer entitled to
Carer Support Payment.

24.8

For the purposes of this regulation, an individual has a “relevant
entitlement” if the individual is entitled to—

24.8.a

a Carer’s Allowance, or

24.8.b

the carer element of universal credit.

24.9

Where paragraph (2) applies at the same time as paragraphs (3) or (4), the
Scottish Ministers must make a determination under paragraph (2) before making
a determination under paragraph (3) or (4).

#### Continuing eligibility


25

25.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), a determination that an individual is
entitled to Carer Support Payment in respect of a period is to be made on the
basis that the individual has an ongoing entitlement to Carer Support Payment
after the end of that period, except where paragraph (2) applies.

25.2

This paragraph applies where, after the end of the period mentioned in
paragraph (1), the individual no longer satisfies the eligibility rules.

25.3

A determination of ongoing entitlement is made on the basis that—

25.3.a

the individual will continue to be entitled to Carer Support Payment for a
fixed or indefinite period as specified in the notice of determination, and

25.3.b

the decision that the individual is entitled to Carer Support Payment for each
subsequent 4-week period is to be taken in accordance with these Regulations,
on the strength of the assumptions set out in paragraph (4).

25.4

The assumptions are that—

25.4.a

the individual continues to satisfy the eligibility criteria which were
satisfied to be entitled to Carer Support Payment under the determination
mentioned in paragraph (1),

25.4.b

the information on which the determination mentioned in paragraph (1) was made
still applies and is relevant in the individual’s case, and

25.4.c

there is no change in circumstances of the individual which would require to
be notified under section 56 of the 2018 Act.

#### Form of payment – giving Carer Support Payment by way of deduction


26

26.1

Where an individual has a liability to the Scottish Ministers under section 63
of the 2018 Act, the individual’s payment of Carer Support Payment may be
given (in whole or in part) by way of deduction, at a reasonable level, from
that liability either—

26.1.a

with the agreement of the individual, or

26.1.b

without the individual’s agreement, where the individual has unreasonably
refused to agree to the assistance being given in that form.

26.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1), “ reasonable level ” means a level that is
reasonable having regard to the financial circumstances of the individual.

#### When a decrease in amount or cessation of entitlement takes effect


27

27.1

Where, as a result of a determination without application, the amount of Carer
Support Payment payable in respect of an individual is decreased or their
entitlement to Carer Support Payment ceases, the change takes effect—

27.1.a

in the case of a determination without application under regulation 35
(consideration of entitlement after specified period) or 36(a) (determination
following change of circumstances etc.), on the first day of the award week
following the award week in which—

27.1.a.i

the individual should have notified the Scottish Ministers of the change,
where the individual was required to notify a change under section 56 of the
2018 Act, if the individual—

27.1.a.i.aa

knowingly fails to notify a change, or

27.1.a.i.bb

fails to notify the change as soon as reasonably practicable after it
occurred, or

27.1.a.ii

in any other case, the Scottish Ministers make the determination,

27.1.b

in the case of an earlier determination which was based on error within the
meaning of regulation 37 (determination following official error –
underpayments) or regulation 38 (determination following error –
overpayments), on the first day of the award week in which the earlier
determination took effect,

27.1.c

in any other case, on the first day of the award week following the award week
in which the Scottish Ministers make the determination.

27.2

Where the Scottish Ministers consider that in all the circumstances it would
be unjust not to do so, they may, when making their determination, set a later
date for the purposes of paragraph (1).

#### When an increase in amount of entitlement takes effect


28

28.1

Where, as a result of a determination without application, the amount of Carer
Support Payment payable in respect of an individual is increased, the change
takes effect—

28.1.a

in the case of an increase pursuant to a determination made under regulation
36(a) or (b) (determination following change of circumstances etc.), on the
first day of the award week in which—

28.1.a.i

the individual first satisfies the requirements for an increased amount of
Carer Support Payment—

28.1.a.i.aa

where the individual reports the change within 13 weeks of the change
occurring, or

28.1.a.i.bb

where the individual reports the change more than 13 weeks after the change
occurring, but only if the Scottish Ministers consider that the individual has
good reason for not reporting the change within 13 weeks, or

28.1.a.ii

in any other case, the individual reports the change,

28.1.a.iii

where as a result of the Scottish Ministers becoming aware that a
determination of an individual’s entitlement was made in ignorance of a
material fact, the Scottish Ministers make the determination.

28.1.b

in the case of an earlier determination which was based on error within the
meaning of regulation 37 (determination following official error –
underpayments) or regulation 38 (determination following error –
overpayments), on the first day of the award week in which the earlier
determination took effect,

28.1.c

in any other case, on the first day of the award week following the award week
in which the Scottish Ministers make the determination.

28.2

Where the Scottish Ministers consider that in all the circumstances it would
be unjust not to do so, they may, when making their determination, set an
earlier date for the purposes of paragraph (1).

### Suspensions


#### Circumstances in which assistance may be suspended


29

29.1

The Scottish Ministers may decide that an individual who has an ongoing
entitlement to Carer Support Payment in respect of a period by virtue of
regulation 25 (continuing eligibility) is not to become entitled to be given
some or all of that assistance at the time at which the individual otherwise
would in accordance with that regulation, as read with regulation 22 (time of
payment) (referred to in these Regulations as a decision to suspend the
individual’s Carer Support Payment).

29.2

Where such a decision is made in respect of an individual, payments of Carer
Support Payment to that individual are to be suspended until such a time as
the Scottish Ministers decide that the individual is once again to become
entitled to be given Carer Support Payment.

29.3

The Scottish Ministers may decide to suspend an individual’s Carer Support
Payment only in the circumstances where—

29.3.a

section 54(1A) of the 2018 Act  applies, or

29.3.b

the Scottish Ministers have made arrangements (whether under section 85B of
the 2018 Act  or otherwise) for a person to receive Carer Support Payment on
the individual’s behalf, and the Scottish Ministers consider that it is
necessary to suspend the Carer Support Payment—

29.3.b.i

in order to protect the individual from the risk of financial abuse, or

29.3.b.ii

because the person with whom the Scottish Ministers have made arrangements is
unable to continue to receive the Carer Support Payment.

29.3.c

In this regulation “ financial abuse ” includes—

29.3.c.i

having money or other property stolen,

29.3.c.ii

being defrauded,

29.3.c.iii

being put under pressure in relation to money or other property,

29.3.c.iv

having money or other property misused.

#### Having regard to financial circumstances


30

The Scottish Ministers must have regard to an individual’s financial
circumstances prior to making a decision to suspend payment to the individual
of some or all of Carer Support Payment.

#### Information to be given following suspension


31

31.1

Having made a decision to suspend an individual’s Carer Support Payment, the
Scottish Ministers must inform the individual of—

31.1.a

their decision to suspend the individual’s Carer Support Payment,

31.1.b

the reasons for their decision,

31.1.c

any steps which might be taken by the individual in order for the Scottish
Ministers to consider ending the suspension, and

31.1.d

the individual’s right under regulation 32 (right to review suspension) to
require the Scottish Ministers to review their decision.

31.2

The Scottish Ministers must fulfil their duty under paragraph (1) in a way
that leaves the individual with a record of the information which the
individual can show to, or otherwise share with, others.

#### Right to review suspension


32

32.1

An individual may require the Scottish Ministers to review a decision to
suspend that individual’s Carer Support Payment.

32.2

The Scottish Ministers must—

32.2.a

complete a review mentioned in paragraph (1) within 31 days beginning with the
day on which they received notice from the individual requiring them to review
their decision,

32.2.b

inform the individual of the outcome of the review including the reasons for
it.

32.3

The Scottish Ministers must fulfil their duty under paragraph (2)(b) in a way
that leaves the individual with a record of the information which the
individual can show to, or otherwise share with, others.

#### Ending a suspension


33

The Scottish Ministers are to make a decision to end a suspension where—

33.a

the individual provides the information requested under section 54(1) of the
2018 Act  and the Scottish Ministers consider that they do not require to make
a determination without application,

33.b

regulation 29(3)(a) (circumstances in which assistance may be suspended)
applies and the Scottish Ministers make a determination without application
under regulation 35 (consideration of entitlement after specified period), 36
(determination following change of circumstances, etc.), 37 (determination
following official error – underpayments), 38 (determination following error –
overpayments) or 39 (determination to effect a deduction decision),

33.c

the Scottish Ministers make a determination under section 54(2)  of the 2018
Act,

33.d

the circumstances mentioned in regulation 29(3)(b) (circumstances in which
assistance may be suspended) no longer apply, or

33.e

the Scottish Ministers consider it appropriate in the circumstances, including
having regard to the financial circumstances of the individual.

#### Effect of suspension ending


34

When—

34.a

the suspension of an individual’s Carer Support Payment ends, and

34.b

under the latest determination of the individual’s entitlement to Carer
Support Payment relating to the period of the suspension the individual would
have become entitled to be given Carer Support Payment during that period,

the individual is immediately to be given the Carer Support Payment that the
individual would have become entitled to be given under the determination
during the period of suspension.

### Re-consideration of entitlement to Carer Support Payment: determination without application


#### Consideration of entitlement after specified period


35

The Scottish Ministers must make a determination of an individual’s
entitlement to Carer Support Payment, without receiving an application, after
the end of the period specified (if any) in—

35.a

the individual’s notice of determination under section 40 or notice of re-
determination under section 44 (as the case may be), or

35.b

a determination made by the First-tier Tribunal for Scotland under section 49,

of the 2018 Act.

#### Determination following change of circumstances etc.


36

The Scottish Ministers must make a determination of an individual’s
entitlement to Carer Support Payment, without receiving an application, where
the individual has an ongoing entitlement to Carer Support Payment and they
become aware—

36.a

of a change of circumstances whether or not notified by the individual in
accordance with section 54 or 56 of the 2018 Act,

36.b

that a determination of an individual’s entitlement was made in ignorance of a
material fact which is likely to result in an alteration to the amount of
Carer Support Payment payable to the individual or which is likely to mean
that the individual is no longer entitled to Carer Support Payment,

36.c

that the individual has died,

36.d

that the cared for person has died,

36.e

that the individual has notified the Scottish Ministers that they wish for
their entitlement to assistance to begin on a date prior to the day on which
their application was treated as made, provided that—

36.e.i

the date chosen by the individual is no more than 13 weeks prior to the day on
which their application was treated as made, and

36.e.ii

the individual satisfied the eligibility requirements set out in Part 3 of
these Regulations on that chosen date,

36.f

of an alteration of the award of Carer’s Allowance which the individual was
entitled to immediately before the date of transfer to Carer Support Payment
in accordance with Part 2 of schedule 1, as a result of a decision made
pursuant to—

36.f.i

a revision under regulation 3 of the Social Security and Child Support
(Decisions and Appeals) Regulations 1999  (“ the 1999 Regulations ”),

36.f.ii

a supersession under regulation 6 of the 1999 Regulations,

36.f.iii

an appeal under section 12 of the Social Security Act 1998 (“ the 1998 Act ”)
,

36.f.iv

a redetermination under section 13 of the 1998 Act,

36.f.v

an appeal to the Upper Tribunal under section 14 of the 1998 Act,

36.f.vi

a revision under article 10 of the Social Security (Northern Ireland) Order
1998  (“ the 1998 Order ”),

36.f.vii

a supersession under article 11 of the 1998 Order,

36.f.viii

an appeal under article 13 of the 1998 Order, or

36.f.ix

an appeal to the Commissioner under article 15 of the 1998 Order,

36.g

of an alteration of the award of Carer’s Allowance which the individual was
entitled to immediately before moving to Scotland in circumstances in which
regulation 41 (individuals in respect of whom Carer’s Allowance is paid in
another part of the United Kingdom immediately before moving to Scotland)
applies, as a result of a decision made pursuant to—

36.g.i

a revision under regulation 3 of the Social Security and Child Support
(Decisions and Appeals) Regulations 1999 (“ the 1999 Regulations ”),

36.g.ii

a supersession under regulation 6 of the 1999 Regulations,

36.g.iii

an appeal under section 12 of the Social Security Act 1998 (“ the 1998 Act ”),

36.g.iv

a re-consideration under section 13 of the 1998 Act,

36.g.v

an appeal to the Upper Tribunal under section 14 of the 1998 Act,

36.g.vi

a revision under article 10 of the Social Security (Northern Ireland) Order
1998  (“ the 1998 Order ”),

36.g.vii

a supersession under article 11 of the 1998 Order,

36.g.viii

an appeal under article 13 of the 1998 Order, or

36.g.ix

an appeal to the Commissioner under article 15 of the 1998 Order.

#### Determination following official error - underpayments


37

37.1

The Scottish Ministers are to make a determination of an individual’s
entitlement to Carer Support Payment, without receiving an application, where—

37.1.a

they have previously made a determination of the individual’s entitlement to
Carer Support Payment (“the original determination”),

37.1.b

they establish that, due to an official error, the original determination was
incorrect resulting in the individual—

37.1.b.i

not being given an award of Carer Support Payment, or

37.1.b.ii

being given a lower award than that,

to which the individual was entitled,

37.1.c

the Scottish Ministers are not considering a request for a re-determination of
the individual’s entitlement to Carer Support Payment, and

37.1.d

the individual has not appealed to the First-tier Tribunal for Scotland
against the Scottish Minister’s determination of the individual’s entitlement
to Carer Support Payment.

37.2

In making a determination required by paragraph (1) the Scottish Ministers are
to use—

37.2.a

any information—

37.2.a.i

provided in the application that led to the original determination,

37.2.a.ii

they have obtained in connection with that application, and

37.2.b

any other information they have obtained in connection with the individual’s
entitlement to Carer Support Payment.

37.3

In this regulation “ official error ” means an error made by someone acting on
behalf of the Scottish Ministers or on behalf of a Minister of the Crown that
was not materially contributed to by anyone else.

#### Determination following error – overpayments


38

38.1

The Scottish Ministers are to make a determination of an individual’s
entitlement to Carer Support Payment, without receiving an application, where—

38.1.a

they have previously made a determination of the individual’s entitlement to
Carer Support Payment (“the original determination”),

38.1.b

they establish that, due to an error, the original determination was incorrect
resulting in the individual being given—

38.1.b.i

an award of Carer Support Payment to which the individual was not entitled, or

38.1.b.ii

a higher award than that to which the individual was entitled,

38.1.c

the Scottish Ministers are not considering a request for a re-determination of
the individual’s entitlement to Carer Support Payment, and

38.1.d

the individual has not made an appeal to the First-tier Tribunal for Scotland
or Upper Tribunal against the Scottish Minister’s determination of the
individual’s entitlement to Carer Support Payment, that has not yet been
determined.

38.2

In making a determination required by paragraph (1) the Scottish Ministers are
to use—

38.2.a

any information—

38.2.a.i

provided in the application that led to the original determination, and

38.2.a.ii

they have obtained in connection with that application,

38.2.b

any other information they have obtained in connection with the individual’s
entitlement to Carer Support Payment, and

38.2.c

any other information available to them that is relevant to their
consideration of whether the individual is entitled to Carer Support Payment.

38.3

In this regulation references to an “error” are to—

38.3.a

an error in the performance of a function conferred by these Regulations or
the 2018 Act, including a determination being made—

38.3.a.i

wrongly, or

38.3.a.ii

correctly but on the basis of—

38.3.a.ii.aa

incorrect information, or

38.3.a.ii.bb

an assumption which proves to be wrong, or

38.3.b

a new determination not being made after an assumption on the basis of which
an earlier determination was made has proved to be wrong.

#### Determination to effect a deduction decision


39

39.1

The Scottish Ministers are to make a determination of an individual’s
entitlement to Carer Support Payment, without receiving an application, where
the circumstances in paragraphs (2) and (3) apply.

39.2

This paragraph applies where—

39.2.a

regulation 26 (form of payment – giving Carer Support Payment by way of
deduction) allows Carer Support Payment to be given to the individual by way
of deduction, or

39.2.b

Carer Support Payment is being given to the individual by way of deduction,
and the Scottish Ministers consider that may no longer be appropriate.

39.3

This paragraph applies where the Scottish Ministers have decided to—

39.3.a

vary the amount of Carer Support Payment to be given by way of deduction
(including introducing a deduction, where the full amount of Carer Support
Payment was previously given as money),

39.3.b

vary any period for which the individual’s Carer Support Payment is to be
given by way of deduction, that may have been specified in a previous
determination of the individual’s entitlement, or

39.3.c

cease making deductions, and instead give the individual’s Carer Support
Payment in the form of money.

39.4

The Scottish Ministers are to make a determination, without receiving an
application, where an individual who is receiving Carer Support Payment by way
of deduction under a previous determination of entitlement notifies the
Scottish Ministers that the individual—

39.4.a

withdraws their agreement to their Carer Support Payment being given by way of
deduction,

39.4.b

wishes the Scottish Ministers to increase the amount of their Carer Support
Payment that is given by way of deduction,

39.4.c

wishes the Scottish Ministers to decrease the amount of their Carer Support
Payment that is given by way of deduction (including ceasing the deduction),
or

39.4.d

wishes the Scottish Ministers to amend the length of any period referred to in
paragraph (3)(b).

### Breaks in care


#### Temporary break in care


40

40.1

An award week in respect of which an individual fails to satisfy the
requirement of regulation 5(2) (provision of care to a cared for person) is to
be treated as an award week in respect of which that individual satisfies that
requirement if—

40.1.a

that individual has only temporarily ceased to satisfy it, and

40.1.b

that individual has satisfied it for at least 14 weeks in the period of 26
weeks ending with that award week and would have satisfied it for at least 22
weeks in that period but for the fact that—

40.1.b.i

that individual was undergoing medical or other treatment as an in-patient in
a hospital or similar institution, or

40.1.b.ii

the cared for person was undergoing medical or other treatment as an in-
patient in a hospital or similar institution.

40.2

Regulation 14 (earnings limit) does not apply to an individual in respect of
an award week mentioned in paragraph (1).

40.3

Paragraph (1) applies to an individual who fails to satisfy the requirement of
regulation 5(2) because they are in legal detention, provided the individual
satisfies the requirements of this regulation.

### Movement of individuals between Scotland and the rest of the United Kingdom


#### Individuals in respect of whom Carer’s Allowance is paid in another part of the United Kingdom immediately before moving to Scotland


41

41.1

Where an individual—

41.1.a

becomes resident in Scotland,

41.1.b

was resident in another part of the United Kingdom, and

41.1.c

was entitled to Carer’s Allowance in respect of a cared for person immediately
before the date of the move,

the Scottish Ministers are to make a determination without application of the
individual’s entitlement to Carer Support Payment.

41.2

Entitlement to Carer Support Payment under paragraph (1) begins on the day
after the day on which the individual’s entitlement to Carer’s Allowance ends.

41.3

In this regulation, “the date of the move” is the date when the individual
becomes resident in Scotland, as notified by the individual or otherwise
communicated to the Scottish Ministers (whether the notification takes place
before or after the date of the move).

#### Individuals in respect of whom Carer Support Payment is paid at the time of moving to another part of the United Kingdom


42

42.1

Where the Scottish Ministers become aware that an individual who is entitled
to Carer Support Payment has moved or is to move to become resident in another
part of the United Kingdom, the individual is to be treated as though the
individual meets the condition under regulation 6(1)(a) (residence and
presence conditions) of being ordinarily resident in Scotland for a period of
13 weeks beginning in accordance with paragraph (4).

42.2

Where the Scottish Ministers become aware that an individual has moved or is
to move to another part of the United Kingdom mentioned in paragraph (1), they
are to make a determination without application at the end of the 13-week
period mentioned in paragraph (1) that the individual’s entitlement to Carer
Support Payment is to terminate.

42.3

Where before the end of the 13-week period, the Scottish Ministers become
aware that the individual is no longer to move to become resident in another
part of the United Kingdom, the duty in paragraph (2) does not apply.

42.4

The 13-week period mentioned in paragraph (1) begins on the date the
individual ceases to be ordinarily resident in Scotland.

42.5

On the day after the 13-week period specified in paragraph (4) ends—

42.5.a

entitlement to Carer Support Payment ceases, and

42.5.b

regulation 38 (determination following error – overpayments) applies to any
Carer Support Payment paid to an individual in relation to a period after the
end of that 13-week period.

### Periods in respect of a re-determination request


#### Periods in respect of a re-determination request


43

43.1

The period for requesting a re-determination of entitlement to Carer Support
Payment under section 41 of the 2018 Act is 42 days beginning with the day
that the individual is informed, in accordance with section 40 of the 2018
Act, of the right to make the request.

43.2

In relation to determining entitlement to Carer Support Payment, the period
allowed for re-determination (within the meaning of section 43 of the 2018
Act) is 56 days beginning with—

43.2.a

the day that the request for a re-determination is received by the Scottish
Ministers,

43.2.b

in a case where the request for a re-determination is received by the Scottish
Ministers outwith the period prescribed in paragraph (1), the day on which it
is decided by the Scottish Ministers or (as the case may be) the First-tier
Tribunal for Scotland that the individual in question has a good reason for
not requesting a re-determination sooner, or

43.2.c

in a case where the Scottish Ministers have informed the individual of their
decision that the request for a re-determination was not made in such form as
the Scottish Ministers require, the day on which it is subsequently decided by
the First-tier Tribunal for Scotland that the individual in question has made
the request in such form as the Scottish Ministers require.

### Transfer from Carer’s Allowance to Carer Support Payment


#### Transfer from Carer’s Allowance to Carer Support Payment


44

Part 2 of schedule 1 makes provision about transferring from Carer’s Allowance
to Carer Support Payment.

### Initial period for applications


#### Initial period for applications


45

Part 1 of schedule 1 makes provision about the initial period for
applications.

### Transitory provision


#### Transitory provision – initial period for applications


46

46.1

During the initial period for applications, in addition to satisfying the
residence and presence conditions in regulations 6 to 11, an individual must
be resident in one of the local authority areas specified in paragraph 2 of
Part 1 of schedule 1 on the date their application is received by the Scottish
Ministers.

46.2

In this regulation and in Part 1 of schedule 1, “ initial period for
applications ” means the period beginning with 19 November 2023 and ending
with   3 November 2024 .

46.3

The initial period for applications comprises three phases—

46.3.a

phase 1, beginning with 19 November 2023 and ending with 23 June 2024,

46.3.b

phase 2, beginning with 24 June 2024 and ending with 18 August 2024, and

46.3.c

phase 3, beginning with 19 August 2024 and ending with 3 November 2024.

#### Exclusion to transitory provision


47

47.1

An individual who has made a claim for Carer’s Allowance prior to 19 November
2023 which has not yet been decided is not entitled to be paid Carer Support
Payment during the initial period for applications.

47.2

In paragraph (1) a claim for Carer’s Allowance is decided if it has—

47.2.a

been decided by the Secretary of State under section 70 of the 1992 Act ,

47.2.b

been withdrawn in accordance with regulation 5(2) of the Social Security
(Claims and Payments) Regulations 1987 , or

47.2.c

otherwise is no longer to be decided by the Secretary of State as mentioned in
sub-paragraph (a).

### Consequential amendments


#### Consequential amendments


48

The amendments specified in Part 3 of schedule 1 have effect.

      SHIRLEY-ANNE SOMERVILLE   A member of the Scottish Government     St
Andrew’s House,   Edinburgh       25th October 2023

Regulations 44, 45 and 48

##### Initial period for applications


###### Initial period for applications


1

1.1

These Regulations apply to an individual who is resident in one of the local
authority areas mentioned in paragraph 2 when the individual makes an
application for Carer Support Payment during the initial period for
applications.

1.2

An individual who is awarded Carer Support Payment pursuant to an application
made during the initial period for applications will continue to be entitled
if that individual moves to another local authority area in Scotland.

###### Local authority areas for initial period for applications


2

The local authority areas specified for the purposes of regulation 45 (initial
period for applications) are—

2.a

in phase 1, Perthshire and Kinross, City of Dundee and Western Isles,

2.b

in phase 2, Perthshire and Kinross, City of Dundee, Western Isles, Angus,
North Lanarkshire and South Lanarkshire,

2.c

in phase 3, Perthshire and Kinross, City of Dundee, Western Isles, Angus,
North Lanarkshire, South Lanarkshire, Fife, City of Aberdeen, Aberdeenshire,
Moray, North Ayrshire, East Ayrshire and South Ayrshire.

##### Relevant date

2A

For the purposes of regulation 18A (entitlement beginning before individual
satisfied residence requirements), the “relevant date” in respect of an
individual who is resident in a local authority area listed in column 1 of
table 1, is the date specified in the corresponding entry of column 2.

Table 1 Column 1: local authority area Column 2: relevant date Angus, North
Lanarkshire or South Lanarkshire, 22 September 2024 Fife, City of Aberdeen,
Aberdeenshire, Moray, North Ayrshire, East Ayrshire or South Ayrshire, 17
November 2024 Argyll and Bute, Clackmannanshire, Dumfries and Galloway, East
Dunbartonshire, East Lothian, East Renfrewshire, City of Edinburgh, Falkirk,
Glasgow City, Highlands, Inverclyde, Midlothian, Orkney Islands, Renfrewshire,
Scottish Borders, Shetland Islands, Stirling, West Dunbartonshire or West
Lothian 2 February 2025

2B

For the purposes of regulation 18B (entitlement beginning before individual
satisfied residence requirements – education), the “relevant date” in respect
of an individual who is resident in a local authority area listed in column 1
of table 2, is the date specified in the corresponding entry of column 2.

Table 2 Column 1: local authority area Column 2: relevant date Perthshire and
Kinross, City of Dundee, Western Isles, Angus, North Lanarkshire or South
Lanarkshire 22 September 2024 Fife, City of Aberdeen, Aberdeenshire, Moray,
North Ayrshire, East Ayrshire or South Ayrshire 17 November 2024 Argyll and
Bute, Clackmannanshire, Dumfries and Galloway, East Dunbartonshire, East
Lothian, East Renfrewshire, City of Edinburgh, Falkirk, Glasgow City,
Highlands, Inverclyde, Midlothian, Orkney Islands, Renfrewshire, Scottish
Borders, Shetland Islands, Stirling, West Dunbartonshire or West Lothian 2
February 2025

##### Transfer to Carer Support Payment


###### Interpretation


3

In this Part of the schedule—

“ date of transfer ” means the date when a transferring individual’s
entitlement to Carer Support Payment begins by virtue of a determination made
under paragraph 5(1), “ relevant individual ” means an individual— who has an
award of Carer’s Allowance who appears to the Scottish Ministers to be likely
to be eligible for Carer Support Payment, and who is— ordinarily resident in
Scotland, or someone to whom regulation 6(3) (residence and presence
conditions) or 11(2) (persons residing outside the United Kingdom to whom a
relevant EU regulation applies) applies, “ sufficient ” means a link to
Scotland that is sufficiently close that regulation 6(3) or 11(2) would be
incompatible with the applicable agreement mentioned in that regulation, if
the relevant individual were not entitled to Carer Support Payment, “ transfer
notice ” means the notice required by paragraph 4, and “ transferring
individual ” means an individual on whom the Scottish Ministers have served a
notice of intention to transfer in accordance with paragraph 4.

###### Notice of intention to transfer to Carer Support Payment


4

4.1

The Scottish Ministers are to notify each relevant individual of their
intention to transfer that individual’s entitlement to carer’s assistance from
an entitlement to Carer’s Allowance to an entitlement to Carer Support
Payment.

4.2

Notice under sub-paragraph (1) must—

4.2.a

be given in a way that leaves the relevant individual with a record of the
information which they can show to, or otherwise share with, others,

4.2.b

inform the relevant individual that—

4.2.b.i

they have been identified as a relevant individual for the purpose of transfer
to Carer Support Payment,

4.2.b.ii

the Scottish Ministers will make a determination without receiving an
application to transfer the individual’s entitlement to Carer’s Allowance to
an entitlement to Carer Support Payment within a period to be specified in the
notice (the individual will be notified when the determination is made and
informed about their award and start date of Carer Support Payment), and

4.2.b.iii

the individual’s award of Carer’s Allowance will cease immediately before the
award of Carer Support Payment begins.

4.3

Where a notice under sub-paragraph (1) is given—

4.3.a

to a transferring individual who, before a determination is made under
paragraph 5(1)—

4.3.a.i

ceases to be ordinarily resident in Scotland, or

4.3.a.ii

cares for a cared for person who dies, or

4.3.b

in error where the individual is neither—

4.3.b.i

ordinarily resident in Scotland, nor

4.3.b.ii

an individual who is habitually resident in an EEA state, Gibraltar or
Switzerland and has a genuine and sufficient link to Scotland,

the duty on the Scottish Ministers in paragraph 5(1) does not apply.

4.4

Where sub-paragraph (3) applies in respect of an individual and a
determination under paragraph 5(1) has not been made, the Scottish Ministers
are to notify the individual that the duty on the Scottish Ministers in
paragraph 5(1) does not apply.

###### Determination without application of entitlement to Carer Support Payment


5

5.1

The Scottish Ministers are to make a determination without receiving an
application in respect of a transferring individual of that individual’s
entitlement to Carer Support Payment.

5.2

Entitlement to Carer Support Payment under a determination under sub-paragraph
(1) begins on the date specified in the notice of determination given to the
transferring individual in accordance with section 40 of the 2018 Act.

5.3

The determination under sub-paragraph (1) is to be made on the basis of—

5.3.a

such information as the Scottish Ministers have received from the Secretary of
State in respect of the transferring individual’s entitlement to Carer’s
Allowance, and

5.3.b

any other information available to the Scottish Ministers that appears to be
relevant.

5.4

A determination under sub-paragraph (1) must be made on the basis that the
transferring individual is entitled to the amount of Carer Support Payment
that is equivalent to the amount of Carer’s Allowance to which the individual
was entitled immediately before the date of transfer.

5.5

A determination under sub-paragraph (1)—

5.5.a

may be made on the assumption that whatever can be discerned about the
transferring individual’s circumstances from the information mentioned in sub-
paragraph (3) remains accurate on the date on which the determination is made,

5.5.b

notwithstanding the generality of head (a), is to be made on the assumption
that the conditions relating to residence and presence set out in regulations
6 to 11 (residence and presence conditions etc.) are satisfied in the
individual’s case, and

5.5.c

must be made no later than the period specified in the notice under paragraph
4(1) (notice of intention to transfer to Carer Support Payment) unless the
Scottish Ministers have—

5.5.c.i

good reason to extend that period,

5.5.c.ii

agreed the period for extension with the Secretary of State, and

5.5.c.iii

notified the transferring individual of the extension and reason for it.

5.6

Where the Scottish Ministers make a determination under paragraph (1) that a
transferring individual is entitled to Carer Support Payment, for the week in
which that determination takes place, “ award week ” means—

5.6.a

where the individual cares for a cared for person who is in receipt of
Constant Attendance Allowance, a period of 4 days, starting on the Wednesday
of that week and ending on the following Saturday, or

5.6.b

in all other cases, a period of 6 days, starting on the Monday of that week
and ending on the following Saturday.

###### Date of cessation of Carer’s Allowance


6

Where a determination is made under paragraph 5(1) (determination without
application of entitlement to Carer Support Payment) that the transferring
individual is entitled to Carer Support Payment, the transferring individual’s
entitlement to Carer’s Allowance will cease on the date their entitlement to
Carer Support Payment begins.

###### Modification of these regulations: transferring individuals


7

These Regulations apply to a transferring individual on and after the date of
transfer with the following modifications—

In regulation 22, for sub-paragraph (b), substitute—

7.b

inform the transferring individual that any subsequent payment will be made—

7.b.i

4 weekly in arrears,

7.b.ii

weekly in advance,

7.b.iii

in respect of an individual who was paid Carer’s Allowance one week in advance
and 3 weekly in arrears—

7.b.iii.aa

4 weekly in arrears, or

7.b.iii.bb

weekly in advance, provided that the individual has informed the Scottish
Ministers that they wish to be paid weekly in advance before the date
specified in the notice of intention to transfer given to the individual in
accordance with paragraph 4(1) of schedule 1,

7.b.iv

where the Scottish Ministers consider that it would be unjust not to do so, at
such intervals as may be specified in the notice of determination.

.

###### Appointees


8

8.1

A person appointed by the Secretary of State under regulation 33 (persons
unable to act) of the Social Security (Claims and Payments) Regulations 1987
to receive Carer’s Allowance on behalf of a transferring individual is to be
treated on and after the date of transfer as though appointed by the Scottish
Ministers to act on behalf of that transferring individual under section 85B
of the 2018 Act.

8.2

As soon as reasonably practicable after the date of transfer, the Scottish
Ministers must—

8.2.a

consider whether the conditions for making an appointment in respect of the
transferring individual are met (having regard to section 85B(3) of the 2018
Act),

8.2.b

consider whether to terminate the appointment that is treated as having been
made by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) and terminate it if they consider it
appropriate, and

8.2.c

if they have terminated an appointment in pursuance of head (b), appoint under
section 85B of the 2018 Act another person to act on the transferring
individual’s behalf if they consider it appropriate to do so.

8.3

The duty in paragraph (2) does not apply to a person in respect of whom the
Scottish Ministers have already—

8.3.a

appointed to act on behalf of that transferring individual under section 85B
of the 2018 Act, or

8.3.b

considered whether the conditions for making an appointment are met in
accordance with paragraph 15 (appointees) of Part 3 of schedule 2 of the
Disability Assistance for Working Age People (Scotland) Regulations 2022  or
paragraph 14 (appointees) of Part 3 of the schedule of the Disability
Assistance for Children and Young People (Scotland) Regulations 2021 .

##### Consequential amendments


###### Amendment of the 2018 Act


9

9.1

Section 81 of the 2018 Act is amended in accordance with sub-paragraphs (2) to
(5).

9.2

In subsection (2), for paragraph (a) substitute—

9.2.a

in receipt of—

9.2.a.i

a carer’s allowance under section 70 of the Social Security Contributions and
Benefits Act 1992 , or

9.2.a.ii

carer support payment under the Carer’s Assistance (Carer Support Payment)
(Scotland) Regulations 2023 ( S.S.I. 2023/302 ), and

.

9.3

In subsection (9), for paragraph (a) substitute—

9.3.a

in receipt of—

9.3.a.i

a carer’s allowance under section 70 of the Social Security Contributions and
Benefits Act 1992, or

9.3.a.ii

carer support payment under the Carer’s Assistance (Carer Support Payment)
(Scotland) Regulations 2023 ( S.S.I. 2023/302 ),

.

9.4

In subsection (11), for paragraph (a) substitute—

9.4.a

in receipt of—

9.4.a.i

a carer’s allowance under section 70 of the Social Security Contributions and
Benefits Act 1992, or

9.4.a.ii

carer support payment under the Carer’s Assistance (Carer Support Payment)
(Scotland) Regulations 2023 ( S.S.I. 2023/302 ),

.

9.5

In subsection (13), for paragraph (a) substitute—

9.5.a

in receipt of—

9.5.a.i

a carer’s allowance under section 70 of the Social Security Contributions and
Benefits Act 1992, or

9.5.a.ii

carer support payment under the Carer’s Assistance (Carer Support Payment)
(Scotland) Regulations 2023 ( S.S.I. 2023/302 ),

.

###### Amendment of the Carer’s Allowance Supplement and Young Carer Grants (Residence Requirements and Procedural Provisions) (EU Exit) (Scotland) Regulations 2020


10

10.1

The Carer’s Allowance Supplement and Young Carer Grants (Residence
Requirements and Procedural Provisions) (EU Exit) (Scotland) Regulations 2020
are amended in accordance with sub-paragraph (2).

10.2

In regulation 7(b), for paragraph (i) substitute—

10.2.i

the Scottish Ministers establish that the individual has received an award of—

10.2.i.aa

carer’s allowance under section 70 of the Social Security Contributions and
Benefits Act 1992 ,

10.2.i.bb

carer support payment under the Carer’s Assistance (Carer Support Payment)
(Scotland) Regulations 2023 ( S.S.I. 2023/302 ),

.

###### Amendment of the Carer’s Assistance (Young Carer Grants) (Scotland) Regulations 2019


11

11.1

The Carer’s Assistance (Young Carer Grants) (Scotland) Regulations 2019  are
amended in accordance with sub-paragraph (2).

11.2

In regulation 7(1) (further eligibility conditions)—

11.2.a

after “young carer grant if,”, insert  “at any point in the qualifying period
or” , and

11.2.b

omit “in respect of any of the persons being cared for”.

  Calculation of earnings

Regulation 14

##### Interpretation


1

In this schedule—

“ basic rate ” means the rate of income tax of that name determined in
accordance with section 6(2) of the Income Tax Act 2007 , “ board and lodging
accommodation ” means— accommodation provided to a person or, if they are a
member of a family, to them or any other member of their family, for a charge
which includes the provision of that accommodation and at least some cooked or
prepared meals (which are provided by a person other than the person to whom
the accommodation is provided or a member of their family) and are consumed in
that accommodation, or accommodation provided to a person in a hotel, guest
house, lodging house or some similar establishment,

except accommodation provided by a close relative of theirs or of any other
member of their family, or other than on a commercial basis,

“ close relative ” means a parent, parent-in-law, son, son-in-law, daughter,
daughter-in-law, step-parent, step-son, step-daughter, brother, sister, or if
any of the preceding persons is one member of a couple, the other member of
that couple, “ dwelling occupied as the home ” means the dwelling together
with any garage, garden and outbuildings, normally occupied by the individual
as their home including any premises not so occupied which it is impracticable
or unreasonable to sell separately, in particular, in Scotland, any croft land
on which the dwelling is situated, “ employed earner ” means a person who is
in gainful employment in Great Britain under a contract of service, or in an
office (including elective office) with emoluments chargeable to income tax
under schedule E of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 and includes— a
person in any employment which would be such employment if it were in Great
Britain, and a person in any such employment which, in accordance with the
provisions of the 1992 Act and of any regulations made under it, is to be
disregarded in relation to liability for contributions, “ employment ”
includes any trade, business, profession, office or vocation, “ individual ”
means any person making an application for Carer Support Payment or
transferring from Carer’s Allowance to Carer Support Payment under these
Regulations, “ maximum weekly amount ” means the maximum weekly amount which,
on the date on which the payment of compensation is made, is specified in
section 227(1) of the Employment Rights Act 1996 , “ occupational pension
scheme ” has the same meaning as in section 1 of the Pension Schemes Act 1993
, “ pay period ” means the period in respect of which an individual is, or
expects to be, normally paid by their employer, being a week, a fortnight, 4
weeks, a calendar month, or such other period as the case may be, “ personal
pension scheme ” has the same meaning as in section 1 of the Pension Schemes
Act 1993 and, in the case of a self-employed earner, includes a scheme
approved by the Inland Revenue under Chapter IV of Part XIV of the Income and
Corporation Taxes Act 1988, “ relevant earnings limit ” means the earnings
limit set out in regulation 14 of these Regulations, “ retirement annuity
contract ” means a contract or trust scheme approved under Chapter III of Part
XIV of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988, “ Scottish basic rate ”
means the rate of income tax of that name calculated in accordance with
section 6A of the Income Tax Act 2007 , “ Scottish taxpayer ” has the same
meaning as in Chapter 2 of Part 4A of the Scotland Act 1998 , “ self-employed
earner ” means a person who is in gainful employment in Great Britain
otherwise than as an employed earner and includes a person in any— employment
which would be such employment if it were in Great Britain, and such
employment which, in accordance with the provisions of the 1992 Act and of any
regulations made under it, is to be disregarded in relation to liability for
contributions, and “ year of assessment ” means, with reference to any income
tax, the year for which such tax was granted by any enactment granting income
tax.

##### Calculation of earnings


2

2.1

For the purposes of regulation 14 (earnings limit), the earnings of an
individual are to be calculated by determining the weekly amount of their
earnings in accordance with this schedule.

2.2

The amount of an individual’s earnings for any period are the whole of those
earnings (including any earnings which they are treated as possessing under
paragraph 3 (notional earnings)) except in so far as paragraphs 9 (calculation
of net earnings of employed earners) and 12 (calculation of net profit of
self-employed earners) provide that certain sums are to be disregarded or
deducted.

##### Notional earnings


3

3.1

Where an individual’s earnings are not ascertainable at the date on which the
Scottish Ministers are determining the individual’s entitlement to Carer
Support Payment or considering whether they are required to make a
determination of the individual’s entitlement to Carer Support Payment without
receiving an application, the individual is treated as possessing such
earnings as is reasonable in the circumstances having regard to the number of
hours worked and the earnings paid for comparable employment.

3.2

Where an individual is treated as possessing any earnings under sub-paragraph
(1), this schedule applies for the purposes of calculating the amount of those
earnings as if a payment had actually been made and as if they were actual
earnings which that individual does possess, except that paragraph 9(3)
(calculation of net earnings of employed earners) does not apply and their net
earnings are calculated by taking into account the earnings which they are
treated as possessing, less—

3.2.a

an amount in respect of income tax equivalent to an amount calculated by
applying to those earnings the basic rate, or in the case of a Scottish
taxpayer, the Scottish basic rate, of tax in the year of assessment less only
the personal reliefs to which the individual is entitled under Chapters 2, 3
and 3A of Part 3 of the Income Tax Act 2007 as are appropriate to their
circumstances; but if the period over which those earnings are to be taken
into account is less than a year, the earnings to which the basic rate, or
Scottish basic rate, of tax is to be applied and the amount of the personal
reliefs deductible under this paragraph are calculated on a pro rata basis,

3.2.b

where the weekly amount of those earnings equals or exceeds the lower earnings
limit, an amount representing primary Class 1 contributions under the 1992
Act, calculated by applying to those earnings the initial and main primary
percentages in accordance with section 8(1)(a) and (b) of that Act, and

3.2.c

one half of any sum payable by the individual in respect of a pay period by
way of a contribution towards an occupational or personal pension scheme,

3.2.d

any care charges to which paragraph 15 (care charges to be deducted in the
calculation of earnings) applies up to a maximum deduction, in respect of such
care charges incurred by any individual, of 50% of their notional earnings.

##### Rounding of fractions


4

Where any calculation under this schedule results in a fraction of a penny
that fraction is, if it would be to individual’s advantage, treated as a
penny, otherwise it is disregarded.

##### Calculation of earnings of employed earners


5

5.1

Earnings derived from employment as an employed earner are calculated or
estimated over a period determined in accordance with the following paragraphs
and at a weekly amount determined in accordance with paragraph 7 (calculation
of weekly amount of earnings).

5.2

Subject to sub-paragraphs (3) and (5) to (7), the period over which a payment
is to be taken into account—

5.2.a

in a case where it is payable in respect of a period, is a period equal to the
total number of award weeks in the period commencing on the date on which the
earnings are treated as paid under paragraph 6 (date on which earnings are
treated as paid) and ending on the day before the date on which earnings of
the same kind (excluding earnings of the kind mentioned in paragraph 8(1)(a)
to (j)) and from the same source would, or would if the employment was
continuing, next be treated as paid under that paragraph, or

5.2.b

in any other case, and where it would cause the individual’s earnings to
exceed the relevant earnings limit if it were taken into account only in
respect of the period in which it was received, is a period equal to such
number of weeks as is equal to the number (less any fraction of a whole
number) calculated in accordance with the formula—

P Q + R where— P is the net earnings, Q is the amount of the relevant earnings
limit plus one penny, and R is the total of the sums which would fall to be
disregarded or deducted as appropriate under paragraph 9(2) (calculation of
net earnings of employed earners), and that period begins on the date on which
the payment is treated as paid under paragraph 6 (date on which earnings are
treated as paid).

5.3

Where earnings not of the same kind are derived from the same source and the
periods in respect of which those earnings would, but for this sub-paragraph,
fall to be taken into account overlap, wholly or partly, those earnings are
taken into account over a period—

5.3.a

equal to the aggregate length of those periods, and

5.3.b

beginning with the earliest date on which any part of those earnings would
otherwise be treated as paid under paragraph 6 (date on which earnings are
treated as paid).

5.4

In a case to which paragraph (3) applies, earnings under paragraph 8 (earnings
of employed earners) are taken into account in the following order of
priority—

5.4.a

earnings normally derived from the employment,

5.4.b

any payment to which paragraph 8(1)(b) or (c) applies,

5.4.c

any payment to which paragraph 8(1)(i) applies,

5.4.d

any payment to which paragraph 8(1)(d) applies.

5.5

Where earnings to which paragraph 8(1)(b) to (d) (earnings of employed
earners) applies are paid in respect of a part of a day, those earnings are
taken into account over a period equal to a week.

5.6

Where earnings to which paragraph 8(1)(i)(i) (earnings of employed earners)
applies are paid in respect of or on the termination of any employment which
is not part-time employment, the period over which they are taken into account
is—

5.6.a

a period of weeks equal to the number of weeks (less any fraction of a whole
number) obtained by dividing the net earnings by the maximum weekly amount
which, on the date on which the payment of earnings is made, is specified in
section 227(1) of the Employment Rights Act 1996 , or

5.6.b

a period equal to the length of the specified period,

whichever is the shorter, and that period begins on the date on which the
payment is treated as paid under paragraph 6 (date on which earnings are
treated as paid).

5.7

In this paragraph—

“ part-time employment ” means— subject to the provisions of heads (b) to (d)
of this definition, employment in which a person is engaged, or, where their
hours of work fluctuate, they are engaged on average for less than 16 hours a
week, being work for which payment is made or which is done in expectation of
payment, subject to head (c) of this definition, the number of hours for which
an individual is engaged in work is determined— where no recognisable cycle
has been established in respect of an individual’s work, by reference to the
number of hours, or, where those hours are likely to fluctuate, the average of
the hours, which they are expected to work in a week, where the number of
hours for which they are engaged fluctuates, by reference to the average of
hours worked over— if there is a recognisable cycle of work, the period of one
complete cycle (including, where the cycle involves periods in which the
individual does not work, those periods but disregarding any other absences),
in any other case, the period of 5 weeks immediately before the date on which
an application for Carer Support Payment is treated as received, or the date
on which a determination without application falls to be made, or such other
length of time as may, in the particular case, enable the individual’s average
hours of work to be determined more accurately, where for the purpose of head
(b)(ii)(aa) of this definition, an individual’s recognisable cycle of work at
a school, other education establishment or other place of employment is one
year and includes periods of school holidays or similar vacations during which
they do not work, those periods and any other periods not forming part of such
holidays or vacations during which they are not required to work is
disregarded in establishing the average hours for which they are engaged in
work, for the purposes of heads (a) and (b) of this definition, in determining
the number of hours for which an individual is engaged in work, that number
includes any time allowed to that individual by their employer for a meal or
for refreshment, but only where that individual is, or expects to be, paid
earnings in respect of that time, “ specified period ” means a period equal
to— a week or such number of weeks (less any fraction of a whole number) as
comprise the period of notice which is applicable to an individual, or would
have been applicable if it had not been waived, less any part of that period
during which the individual has continued to work in the employment in
question or in respect of which they have received any payment in lieu of
notice,

and for the purposes of this definition “ period of notice ” means the period
of notice of termination of employment to which an individual is entitled by
statute or by contract, whichever is the longer, or, if they are not entitled
to such notice, the period of notice which is customary in the employment in
question.

##### Date on which earnings are treated as paid


6

Earnings to which paragraph 5 (calculation of earnings of employed earners) or
10(2) (calculation of earnings of self-employed earners) applies are treated
as paid on the first day of the award week in which the payment is received.

##### Calculation of weekly amount of earnings


7

7.1

For the purposes of paragraph 5 (calculation of earnings of employed earners),
subject to sub-paragraphs (2) to (4), where the period in respect of which a
payment is made—

7.1.a

does not exceed a week, the weekly amount is the amount of that payment,

7.1.b

exceeds a week, the weekly amount is determined—

7.1.b.i

where that period is a month, by multiplying the amount of that payment by 12
and dividing the product by 52,

7.1.b.ii

where that period is 3 months, by multiplying the amount of the payment by 4
and dividing the product by 52,

7.1.b.iii

where that period is a year, by dividing the amount of the payment by 52,

7.1.b.iv

for any other period, by multiplying the amount of the payment by 7 and
dividing the product by the number equal to the number of days in the period
in respect of which it is made.

7.2

Where a payment of earnings from a particular source is or has been paid
regularly and that payment falls to be taken into account in the same award
week as a payment of the same kind from the same source, the amount of those
earnings to be taken into account in any one award week will not exceed the
weekly amount determined under sub-paragraph (1)(a) or (b), as the case may
be, of the payment which under paragraph 6 (date on which earnings are treated
as paid) is treated as paid first.

7.3

Where the amount of the individual’s net earnings fluctuates and has changed
more than once, or an individual’s regular pattern of work is such that they
do not work every week, the application of sub-paragraphs (1) and (2) may be
modified so that the weekly amount of their earnings is determined by
reference to their average weekly earnings—

7.3.a

if there is a recognisable cycle of work, over the period of one complete
cycle,

7.3.b

if the individual has provided the Scottish Ministers with payslips, over the
period to which the payslips relate, up to a maximum period of 26 weeks, or

7.3.c

in any other case, over a period of 5 weeks or such other period as may, in
the particular case, enable the individual’s average weekly earnings to be
determined more accurately.

##### Earnings of employed earners


8

8.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), “earnings”, in the case of employment
as an employed earner means the remuneration or profit derived from the
employment and includes—

8.1.a

any bonus or commission,

8.1.b

any payment in lieu of remuneration except any periodic sum paid to an
individual on account of the termination of their employment by reason of
redundancy,

8.1.c

any payment in lieu of notice,

8.1.d

any holiday pay except where it is payable more than 4 weeks after the
termination or interruption of employment,

8.1.e

any payment by way of a retainer,

8.1.f

any payment made by the individual’s employer in respect of expenses not
wholly, exclusively and necessarily incurred in the performance of the duties
of the employment, including any payment made by the employer in respect of—

8.1.f.i

travelling expenses incurred by the individual between their home and place of
employment,

8.1.f.ii

expense incurred by the individual under arrangements made for the care of a
member of their family owing to the individual’s absence from home,

8.1.g

any award of compensation made under section 112(4) (the remedies: orders and
compensation) or 117(3)(a) (enforcement of order and compensation) of the
Employment Rights Act 1996 (remedies and compensation),

8.1.h

any such sum as is referred to in section 112(3) of the 1992 Act (certain sums
to be earnings for social security purposes),

8.1.i

where—

8.1.i.i

a payment of compensation is made in respect of employment which is not part-
time employment and that payment is not less than the maximum weekly amount,
the amount of the compensation less the deductible remainder, where that is
applicable,

8.1.i.ii

a payment of compensation is made in respect of employment which is part-time
employment, the amount of the compensation,

8.1.j

any remuneration paid by or on behalf of an employer to the individual in
respect of a period during which the individual is—

8.1.j.i

on maternity leave or paternity leave,

8.1.j.ii

on adoption leave, or

8.1.j.iii

absent from work because they are ill.

8.2

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1)(i)(i), the “deductible remainder”—

8.2.a

applies in cases where dividing the amount of the compensation by the maximum
weekly amount produces a whole number plus a fraction, and

8.2.b

is equal to the difference between—

8.2.b.i

the amount of the compensation, and

8.2.b.ii

the product of the maximum weekly amount multiplied by the whole number.

8.3

“Earnings” do not include any payment in respect of expenses—

8.3.a

wholly, exclusively and necessarily incurred in the performance of the duties
of the employment, or

8.3.b

arising out of the individual participating as a service user.

8.4

The reference in sub-paragraph (3)(b) to the individual participating as a
service user is to—

8.4.a

a person who is being consulted by or on behalf of—

8.4.a.i

a body which has a statutory duty to provide services in the field of health,
social care or social housing, or

8.4.a.ii

a body which conducts research or undertakes monitoring for the purpose of
planning or improving such services,

in their capacity as a user, potential user, carer of a user or person
otherwise affected by the provision of those services,

8.4.b

a person who is being consulted by or on behalf of—

8.4.b.i

the Secretary of State or the Scottish Ministers in relation to any of their
functions in the field of social security or child support under section 2 of
the Employment and Training Act 1973 , or

8.4.b.ii

a body which conducts research or undertakes monitoring for the purpose of
planning or improving such functions,

in their capacity as a person affected or potentially affected by the exercise
of those functions or the carer of such a person, or

8.4.c

the carer of a person consulted under sub-paragraphs (a) or (b).

8.5

In this paragraph—

      “ adoption leave ” means a period of absence from work on ordinary or
additional adoption leave under section 75A or 75B of the Employment Rights
Act 1996 ,           “ compensation ” means any payment made in respect of or
on the termination of employment in a case where a person has not received or
received only part of a payment in lieu of notice due or which would have been
due to them had they not waived their right to receive it, other than—
any payment specified in sub-paragraph (1)(a) to (h),           any payment
specified in sub-paragraph (3)           any redundancy payment within the
meaning of section 135 of the Employment Rights Act 1996,           any refund
of contributions to which that person was entitled under an occupational
pension scheme,                 “ maternity leave ” means a period during
which a person is absent from work because they are pregnant or have given
birth to a child, and at the end of which they have the right to return to
work either under the terms of their contract or under Part 8 of the
Employment Rights Act 1996,           “ part-time employment ” has the same
meaning as in paragraph 5(7) (calculation of earnings of employed earners),
“ paternity leave ” means a period of absence from work on leave under section
80A  (entitlement to paternity leave: birth) or 80B  (entitlement to paternity
leave: adoption) of the Employment Rights Act 1996.

##### Calculation of net earnings of employed earners


9

9.1

For the purposes of paragraphs 2 (calculation of earnings) and 5 (calculation
of earnings of employed earners) the earnings of an individual derived from
employment as an employed earner to be taken into account are, subject to sub-
paragraphs (2) and (3), their net earnings.

9.2

There is disregarded or deducted as appropriate from an individual’s net
earnings—

9.2.a

any sum, where applicable, specified in paragraph 14 (sums to be disregarded
in the calculation of earnings), and

9.2.b

any care charges to which paragraph 15 (care charges to be deducted in the
calculation of earnings) applies up to a maximum deduction, in respect of such
care charges incurred by any individual, of 50% of their net earnings less
those sums, if any, specified in paragraph 14 which are disregarded.

9.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1) net earnings are calculated by taking
into account the gross earnings of the individual from that employment, less—

9.3.a

any amount deducted by way of—

9.3.a.i

income tax,

9.3.a.ii

primary Class 1 contributions under the 1992 Act, and

9.3.b

one half of any sum paid by the individual in respect of a pay period by way
of a contribution towards an occupational or personal pension scheme.

##### Calculation of earnings of self-employed earners


10

10.1

Except where paragraph (2) applies, where an individual’s earnings consist of
earnings from employment as a self-employed earner the weekly amount of their
earnings are determined by reference to their average weekly earnings from
that employment—

10.1.a

over a period of one year, or

10.1.b

where the individual has been engaged in that employment for less than a year
or there has been a change which is likely to affect their normal pattern of
earnings, over such other period as may, in any particular case, enable the
weekly amount of their earnings to be determined more accurately.

10.2

Where the individual’s earnings—

10.2.a

consist of royalties or other sums paid as a consideration for the use of, or
the right to use, any copyright, design, patent or trade mark, and

10.2.b

the individual is the first owner of the copyright, design, patent or trade
mark,

those earnings are taken into account over a period equal to such number of
weeks as is equal to the number (less any fraction of a whole number)
calculated in accordance with the formula—

S T + U where— S is the earnings, T is the relevant earnings limit plus one
penny, and U is the total of the sums which would fall to be disregarded or
deducted as appropriate under paragraph 12(2) (calculation of net profit of
self-employed earners).

10.3

The period mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) begins on the date on which the
payment is treated as paid under paragraph 6 (date on which earnings are
treated as paid).

##### Earnings of self-employed earners


11

“Earnings”, in the case of employment as a self-employed earner, means the net
profits of the employment and includes any allowance paid under section 2 of
the Employment and Training Act 1973 or section 2 of the Enterprise and New
Towns (Scotland) Act 1990  to the individual for the purpose of assisting them
in carrying on their business.

##### Calculation of net profit of self-employed earners


12

12.1

For the purposes of paragraphs 2 (calculation of earnings) and 10 (calculation
of earnings of self-employed earners), the earnings of an individual to be
taken into account are, in the case of a self-employed earner—

12.1.a

who is engaged in employment on their own account, the net profit derived from
that employment,

12.1.b

whose employment is carried on in partnership or is that of a share fisherman,
their share of the net profit derived from that employment less—

12.1.b.i

an amount in respect of income tax and social security contributions payable
under the 1992 Act calculated in accordance with paragraph 13 (deduction of
tax and contributions for self-employed earners), and

12.1.b.ii

one half of any premium paid in the period that is relevant under paragraph 10
in respect of a retirement annuity contract or a personal pension scheme,

12.1.c

in sub-paragraph (b), “ share fisherman ” means any person who—

12.1.c.i

is ordinarily employed in the fishing industry otherwise than under a contract
of service, as a master or member of the crew of any fishing boat manned by
more than one person, and is remunerated in respect of that employment in
whole or in part by a share of profits or gross earnings of the fishing boat,
or

12.1.c.ii

has ordinarily been so employed, but who by reason of age or infirmity
permanently ceases to be so employed and becomes ordinarily engaged in
employment ashore in Great Britain, otherwise than under a contract of
service, performing any services ancillary to or in connection with a fishing
boat and is remunerated in respect of that employment in whole or in part by a
share of the profits or gross earnings of that boat and has not ceased to be
ordinarily engaged in that employment.

12.2

There is to be disregarded or deducted as appropriate from an individual’s net
profit—

12.2.a

any sum, where applicable, specified in paragraph 14 (sums to be disregarded
in the calculation of earnings), and

12.2.b

any care charge to which paragraph 15 (care charges to be deducted in the
calculation of earnings) applies up to a maximum deduction, in respect of such
care charges incurred by any individual, of 50% of their net profit less those
sums, if any, specified in paragraph 14 which are disregarded.

12.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1)(a), the net profit of the employment is,
except where sub-paragraph (9) applies, calculated by taking into account the
earnings of the employment over the period determined under paragraph 10
(calculation of earnings of self-employed earners), less—

12.3.a

subject to sub-paragraphs (5) to (7), any expenses wholly and exclusively paid
in that period for the purposes of that employment,

12.3.b

an amount in respect of—

12.3.b.i

income tax, and

12.3.b.ii

social security contributions payable under the 1992 Act, calculated in
accordance with paragraph 13 (deduction of tax and contributions for self-
employed earners), and

12.3.c

one half of any premium paid in the period that is relevant under paragraph 10
(calculation of earnings of self-employed earners) in respect of a retirement
annuity contract or a personal pension.

12.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1)(b), the net profit of the employment is
calculated by taking into account the earnings of the employment over the
period determined under paragraph 10 less, subject to sub-paragraphs (5) to
(7), any expenses wholly and exclusively paid in that period for the purposes
of that employment.

12.5

Subject to paragraph (6), no deduction is to be made under paragraph (3)(a) or
(4) in respect of—

12.5.a

any capital expenditure,

12.5.b

the depreciation of any capital asset,

12.5.c

any sum employed or intended to be employed in the setting up or expansion of
the employment,

12.5.d

any loss incurred before the beginning of the period determined under
paragraph 10 (calculation of earnings of self-employed earners),

12.5.e

the repayment of capital on any loan taken out for the purposes of the
employment,

12.5.f

any expenses incurred in providing business entertainment,

12.5.g

where the individual provides accommodation to another person in the dwelling
the individual occupies as their home, any expenses paid by the individual in
providing the accommodation to that person.

12.6

A deduction is made under sub-paragraph (3)(a) or (4) in respect of the
repayment of capital on any loan used for—

12.6.a

the replacement in the course of business of equipment or machinery, and

12.6.b

the repair of an existing business asset except to the extent that any sum is
payable under an insurance policy for its repair.

12.7

A deduction is not made in respect of any expenses under sub-paragraph (3)(a)
or (4) where the Scottish Ministers are not satisfied that the expenses have
been incurred or, having regard to the nature of the expense and its amount,
that it has been reasonably incurred.

12.8

For the avoidance of doubt—

12.8.a

a deduction is not made under sub-paragraph (3)(a) or (4) in respect of any
sum unless it has been expended for the purposes of the business,

12.8.b

a deduction is made under sub-paragraph (3)(a) or (4) in respect of—

12.8.b.i

the excess of any VAT paid over VAT received in the period determined under
paragraph 10 (calculation of earnings of self-employed earners),

12.8.b.ii

any income expended in the repair of an existing asset except to the extent
that any sum is payable under an insurance policy for its repair,

12.8.b.iii

any payment of interest on a loan taken out for the purposes of the
employment.

12.9

Where an individual is engaged in employment as a child minder the net profit
of the employment is one-third of the earnings of that employment, less—

12.9.a

an amount in respect of—

12.9.a.i

income tax, and

12.9.a.ii

social security contributions payable under the 1992 Act, calculated in
accordance with paragraph 13 (deduction of tax and contributions for self-
employed earners), and

12.9.b

one half of any premiums paid in respect of a retirement annuity or personal
pension scheme.

12.10

Notwithstanding paragraph 10 (calculation of earnings for self-employed
earners) and sub-paragraphs (1) to (5) of this paragraph, the Scottish
Ministers may assess any item of an individual’s earnings or expenditure over
a period other than that determined under paragraph 10 as may, in the
particular case, enable the weekly amount of that item of earnings or
expenditure to be determined more accurately.

##### Deduction of tax and contributions for self-employed earners


13

13.1

The amount to be deducted in respect of income tax under paragraph
12(1)(b)(i), (3)(b)(i) or (9)(a)(i) (calculation of net profit for self-
employed earners) is calculated on the basis of the amount of chargeable
income and as if that income were assessable to income tax at the basic rate,
or in the case of a Scottish taxpayer, the Scottish basic rate, of tax less
only the personal reliefs to which the individual is entitled under Chapters
2, 3 and 3A of Part 3 of the Income Tax Act 2007  and as are appropriate to
their circumstances; but, if the period determined under paragraph 10
(calculation of earnings of self-employed earners) is less than a year, the
earnings to which the basic rate, or the Scottish basic rate, of tax is to be
applied and the amount of the personal reliefs deductible under this sub-
paragraph is calculated on a pro rata basis.

13.2

The amount to be deducted in respect of social security contributions under
paragraph 12(1)(b)(i), (3)(b)(ii) or (9)(a)(ii) is the total of—

13.2.a

the amount of Class 2 contributions payable under section 11(2) or, as the
case may be, 11(8) of the 1992 Act at the rate applicable at the date on which
a   determination   relating to the individual’s entitlement to Carer Support
Payment is made by the Scottish Ministers under these Regulations or, as the
case may be, on appeal by the First-tier Tribunal for Scotland, except where
the individual’s chargeable income is equal to or less than the amount
specified in section 11(4)(a) of that Act (lower profits threshold) for the
tax year in which that date falls; but if the assessment period is less than a
year, the amount specified for that year is reduced pro rata, and

13.2.b

the amount of Class 4 contributions (if any) which would be payable under
section 15 of the 1992 Act (Class 4 contributions recoverable under the Income
Tax Acts) at the percentage rate applicable at the date on which a
determination   relating to the individual’s entitlement to Carer Support
Payment is made by the Scottish Ministers under these Regulations or, as the
case may be, on appeal by the First-tier Tribunal for Scotland, on so much of
the chargeable income as exceeds the lower limit but does not exceed the upper
limit of profits and gains applicable for the tax year in which that date
falls; but if the assessment period is less than a year, those limits are
reduced pro rata.

13.3

In this paragraph, “ chargeable income ” means—

13.3.a

in the case of employment as a child minder, one-third of the earnings of that
employment, or

13.3.b

in all other cases, the earnings derived from the employment less any expenses
deducted under paragraph 12(3)(a) or (4).

##### Sums to be disregarded in the calculation of earnings and profits


14

For the purposes of paragraphs 9(2) (calculation of net earnings of employed
earners) and 12(2) (calculation of net profit of self-employed earners), the
sums to be disregarded in the calculation of earnings and profits are—

14.a

any payment made to the individual by a person who normally resides with the
individual, which is a contribution towards that person’s living and
accommodation costs, except where that person is residing with the individual
in circumstances to which sub-paragraph (b) or (c) refers,

14.b

where the individual occupies a dwelling as their home and the dwelling is
also occupied by another person and there is a contractual liability to make
payments to the individual in respect of the occupation of the dwelling by
that person or a member of their family—

14.b.i

where the aggregate of any payments made in respect of any one week in respect
of that dwelling by that person or a member of their family, or by that person
and a member of their family, is less than £20, the whole of that amount, or

14.b.ii

where the aggregate of those payments is £20 or more per week, £20,

14.c

where the individual occupies a dwelling as their home and they provide in
that dwelling board and lodging accommodation, an amount, in respect of each
person for whom that accommodation is provided for the whole or any part of a
week, equal to—

14.c.i

where the aggregate of those payments made in respect of any one week does not
exceed £20, 100% of those payments, or

14.c.ii

where the aggregate of those payments exceeds £20, £20 and 50% of the excess
over £20,

14.d

except in the case of an individual who is absent from the United Kingdom and
to whom regulation 11 (persons residing outside the United Kingdom to whom a
relevant EU regulation applies) applies—

14.d.i

any earnings derived from employment which are payable in a country outside
the United Kingdom for such period during which there is a prohibition against
transfer to the United Kingdom of those earnings,

14.d.ii

where a payment of earnings is made in a currency other than sterling, any
banking charge or commission payable in converting that payment into sterling,

14.e

any earnings which are due to be paid before the start of the award of Carer
Support Payment and which would otherwise fall to be taken into account in the
same award week as a payment of the same kind and from the same source,

14.f

any payment made by a local authority to the individual with whom a person is
accommodated by virtue of arrangements made under section 22C (ways in which
looked after children are to be accommodated and maintained) of the Children
Act 1989  (provision of accommodation and maintenance for a child whom they
are looking after), section 81 (ways in which looked after children are to be
accommodated and maintained) of the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act
2014 , or section 26 (manner of provision of accommodation to child looked
after by local authority) of the Children (Scotland) Act 1995  or by a
voluntary organisation under section 59(1)(a) (provision of accommodation by
voluntary organisations) of the Children Act 1989.

14.g

any payment made by a health authority, an integrated care board, the   NHS
England , a local authority or a voluntary organisation to the individual in
respect of a person who is not normally a member of the individual’s household
but is temporarily in their care,

14.h

any payment paid at intervals of at least one year and derived from
employments as—

14.h.i

a part-time fire fighter employed by a fire and rescue authority under the
Fire and Rescue Services Act 2004  or by the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service
established under section 1A of the Fire (Scotland) Act 2005 ,

14.h.ii

an auxiliary coastguard in respect of coast rescue activities,

14.h.iii

a person engaged part-time in the manning or launching of a lifeboat,

14.h.iv

a member of any territorial reserve force prescribed in Part I of schedule 1
of the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations 2013 ,

14.i

any amount by way of refund of income tax deducted from profits or emoluments
chargeable to income tax under schedule D or E of the Income and Corporation
Taxes Act 1988 ,

14.j

in the case of employment as an employed earner, any advance of earnings or
any loan made by the individual’s employer,

14.k

any earnings, other than items to which sub-paragraph (l) applies, paid or due
to be paid from the individual’s employment as an employed earner which ended
before the day in respect of which the individual first satisfied the
eligibility criteria for Carer Support Payment set out in Part 3 of these
Regulations,

14.l

this sub-paragraph applies to—

14.l.i

any payment by way of occupational or personal pension, and

14.l.ii

except in a case where the individual’s employment terminated by reason of
retirement at a time when they had attained pensionable age (within the
meaning given by the rules in paragraph 1 of schedule 4 of the Pensions Act
1995 )—

14.l.ii.aa

any payment or remuneration of the nature described in paragraph 8(1)(e) or
(j), and

14.l.ii.bb

any award or sum of the nature described in paragraph 8(1)(g) or (h)
(including any payment made following the settlement of a complaint to an
employment tribunal or of court proceedings).

##### Care charges to be deducted in the calculation of earnings


15

15.1

This paragraph applies where an individual is—

15.1.a

entitled to Carer Support Payment in accordance with these Regulations, and

15.1.b

incurring relevant care charges.

15.2

In this paragraph—

“ close relative ” means a parent, son, daughter, brother, sister or partner,
“ relevant care charges ” means the charges paid by the individual for care
which is provided by a person, who is not a close relative of either the cared
for person or the individual, for— the cared for person, or any child under
the age of 16 on the date on which the award week begins in respect of whom
the individual or their partner is entitled to Child Benefit under section 141
of the 1992 Act because the individual is unable to care for any of those
persons because they are carrying out duties in connection with their
employment, “ cared for person ” means the cared for person in respect of whom
entitlement to Carer Support Payment arises.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision for Carer Support Payment which is a type
of carer’s assistance given by the Scottish Ministers under section 28 of the
Social Security (Scotland) Act 2018.

  Part 2 provides an overview of arrangements for payment of Carer Support
Payment.

  Part 3 sets out the eligibility criteria including the age criteria,
requirements for the provision of care to a cared for person, residence and
presence conditions, the effect of entitlement to other benefits, criteria for
individuals in education and the earnings limit. Schedule 2 provides for
calculation of earnings.

  Part 4 provides for the making of applications, the time of payments, the
amount and form of Carer Support Payment and abatement in respect of a
relevant benefit. It also provides for continuing eligibility, temporary stops
in entitlement and multiple applications involving the same cared for person.
It includes provisions to make payments by way of deduction and when increases
and decreases in payments take effect.

  Part 5 provides for suspensions.

  Part 6 deals with reconsideration of entitlement, where an award of Carer
Support Payment has already been made and is being revisited. It provides for
determinations without application to be made where a specified period has
elapsed, there is a change in circumstances, to address errors resulting in
overpayments, official errors resulting in underpayments, or to effect a
deduction decision.

  Part 7 deals with temporary breaks in care.

  Part 8 provides for the situation where people in Scotland in receipt of
Carer Support Payment move to another part of the United Kingdom or people in
another part of the United Kingdom in receipt of equivalent assistance,
Carer’s Allowance, move to Scotland.

  Part 9 provides for time periods for dealing with requests for re-
determination of entitlement.

  Part 10 and Part 2 of schedule 1 makes provision to transfer individuals who
meet the residence and presence conditions and are awarded Carer’s Allowance
to become entitled to Carer Support Payment.

  Parts 11 and 12 and Part 1 of schedule 1 makes provision for an initial
period for applications to take place before full rollout of Carer Support
Payment.

  Part 13 and Part 3 of schedule 1 make provision for consequential
amendments.

